

JOUR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydnny.
“An ordinary cup contains more aotive properties 01 malt than a pint oI the best Ale or Porter." — Lancet
s
fk
0
o
m
'W
53
e
j
the
OF
<*
» mt
m
4
!
j
w ! 1bw %)
Magazine
araestOfettMf & eg
MELBOURNE
KiNGScGEORGE streets.
45&47,C0LL1NS ST EAST.
The Bulletin
CONTENTS
No PAGE.
1 Scotch Lassie Jean Ballad ... 1
2 Life’s Story •• ••• S(m g • 2
3 There is a Flower that Bloometh Song ... 4
4 In Happy Moments Sbn g ••• 6
5 Yes, let me like a Soldier fall Song ... 8
6 Alas, those Chimes Son s -10
7 White Wings Christy’s Song ... 12
8 Fisherman and his Child ••• Ballad ... 14
9 Four Leaved Shamrock ••• Ballad ... 16
10 Tom Bowling - ••• 17
No PAGE-
-11 Sweethearts and Wives -• s on g 18
12 Are you there, Moriarty? Irish Comic ... 20
13 Teufelsmarsch (The Devil’s March) ••• 22
14 Gall Me Bach Again Ballad ... 24
15 Cows are in the Corn Son g ••• 25
16 Vacant Chair Son s 26
17 Mary Aileen Irish Ballad ... 27
18 I had Fifteen Dollars . Comic Song ... 28
19 Bock-a-Bye, Bal?y Son g - 3°
20 Papa’s Footsteps Ballad ... 32


ht&tta
2
ISCUIT
m
mrmi&s
<gr>
GOJMm«WiOHS£?
&*Q&g¥
TOBACCO
tj
UIXSOPSONS
SOUTHERN’HEMISPHERE:
Nsumurs
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured,
aot merely relieved, and we can prove what we say.
There are no failures and no disappointments.
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cures al
BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION
Mad DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve
distress from too hearty eating, correct DIS-
ORDERS of the” STOMACH, stimulate the
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
Extract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
It is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 3d.
0. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
MONUM E N T £
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone.
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request.
J. CUNNINGHAM,
MARGARET STREET. WYNYARD SQUARE. SYDNEY
QUHEHTBIjAITDo
Millar, carter and co„
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office —227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
|> RITTENBERG & 0 0.,
IMPORTERS,
81 CtABENOE STBEET, WYNYABD SQUABE.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs and Mouldings.
EIFF PRESCRIPTIONS are to
■ HEbE be found in the "LIGHT AND
Line," for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o, A copy of this
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps, Address—
8. WARD ft; CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hnnter-street, Sydney,
*
W*
CAN RECOMMEND
EUIiRIPi
(From Paris)
Ladies' and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING AND HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
PRIVATE ROOMS FOR DYEING THE HAIR.
Note the Address —
-06 BLIZABBTH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
MASON BBOTHEBS,
LIMITED,
808 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
■are always In STOCK for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERsTnd SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky,
J. BORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYENS
Schnapps and Geneva,
A, MELVIN*and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale,
■pATENT DIRECT ACTING
Min IBS,
For use in MINES, CHEMICAL WORKS; for
Working SHEEP-SHEARING MACHINES,
ROCK DRILLS, etc., etc.
Oveb Twenty Thousand (20,000) in Use.
Manufactured by the Wcstlnghousc Brake
Company (limited), London.
Full particulars on application to the Sole Agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
McLEAN BROS., BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
So
r c
6
IRONMONGERS
X
c*
H/
C>
£
c,
BLBCTBQ-FIiA.ISD WASH, OUTI.Ktt’S, TOCia,
«AH COOKING HTOVKS i-MONIB FLETCHER'S, 3KANB fc WALKER'S,
BRADFORD'S W A SHIN© MACHINRS, SCO., fcc,
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERT HOUSE.
lif
UALLY DESTROYS.
lOUS INSECTS,
FLEAS ELI ESBEeFEES Mffsao ITQES
COCKROACH ES.V'%‘ AND IS
AT TRE S TIME-QUITE
HA RM LES S TO'BI RDS DOGS.
FOWLS OR CTH ER . C _
ANIMALS , H -fe -
n
** ffv
:i w
*
w
Pv^o
~ Ji
<**
* *6Ws?
v vj ,V cf
y .a >y
' .a aj
O'
r
> c, v tfV 1
*
.
«3
.
$
v\<
*• o
!*]
iJJWtUEMAI.'AV/JQ
- MELBOURNE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and BeW» re
the numerous imitations. --
of]
. Rowlands .
Maea^arOu
Bbeen known for nearly 100 year# ai the beat and aafeat
human hair; it is warranted free from any lead or mineral
sastorers are composed and which ruin the health (ride Medii
10 medical papers;, win imw paw
rant bouquet of roses: it R r *' f ®S er , tb*
Msuir sert, silky, curly and glossy; it also stimulates the growth of whiskers ana
fit is especially recommended for children as forming the oasis of a beautiful h®»® os
tan also be had in a
GOLDEN COLOUR,
’-’[Web, after great time and trouble, has been especially prepared for the us* of nn*k>
?^? d J en ®nd fair or grey-haired adults. Sizes 3s. Sd.; Is. ; ftniily bottle®, equal to * oa *
JIBS. 6a.; and double that size, 21s.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is « healing and refreshing 'prejiei^SS'.nii*
face, hands and arms; it eradicates freckles, tan, sunburn, eczema, redness *n<» 1° dltt®**®
t.hn ~i„„ -"♦aneous eruptions, etc., and produces ® beautiful
ODONTO whitens the teeth, presents itad
onwha A fH nl t rrV, n*. fo A-IV, er, Ikvaafl, A«*T JISiVWJ'
IU vi»~uv«uvb aruioaiOß, lnb*.u, Duuuuru, 'Oi^*'OkJUU** t swaronw n
w the ekm, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produces » beautiful ft® ol
complexion.
ROWLAMT
the gums, and gives a delightful fragrance to the breath. Ask wjrjL, njii
ROWLANDS' ar&cles, of 20, Hatton Garden, liondon, (and avoid spurious imitatlou*
gcmilar names-
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Emiot'S Ebos., and E. Pbossbb & CO.«
Envoys
DE B I
A FREE MEDICAL BOOK.
er
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist In
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Booh on Sblf-Gubh FOB N®B V 0
Disbashb. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Addsess— .
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herball*.*'
157 LIVERPOOL STEEET, HYDE PARK* SYDNEY, NEW SOD l"
..
B
THE
Federal coffee pala
$
CORNER OE
ZsZiELg' <sz> Collirrs Streets, ITooia^ 33,
Containing 560 ROOMS, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnish** 11,
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuish 16
W’ Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL « GROUND FL
With, excellent Menii, presided over by an experienced ChSf, assisted by a civil and obliging staff-
: u qO-
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION r
*7
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE.
George Cohen
TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY
IKI^ r 1 J


The Bulletin
Vol 9—No 450
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 83," 1888.
Price, 6d.
Sir Saul Samuel


The Bulletin
(he National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors * BULLETIN NEWSPAPER Cb.»
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At H Pitt-street, Sydney, New Sourii WaliSb.
‘tIERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum SI 0 >)
llalf-yearty 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 G
Cfheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to 3. F.
AkcriißALb.
Ihe Editor will carefully redd and acknowledge in the
" Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Skort Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
Urn are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
aity The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1888.
The Apostle of the Gallows.
One day last week Georue Hewart, a man
who was of small value to the community
while he was alive, and whose loss will prob-
ably be little felt now that he is dead, was
hanged in Sydney. That was some 10 days
ago, and by this time the few who ever
knew of the existence of the prisoner have
mostly ceased to care whether he was guilty
or innocent. The evil which he did—if the
particular evil for which he was condemned
was done by him—has died with him ; the
evil which was done by his judges and exe-
cutioners lives after him. The gallows, and
the white cap, and the noseless slaughterman,
and the rest of the fixtures, fittings, and
utensils of judicial homicide were all duly
utilised by a large section of the press as texts
for a fat and unctuous sermon, and when the
gruesome details of the show were all “dished
up,” and it was impossible to eke out any
more matter concerning the “ dull, sickening
thud,” and the other features of the
panorama, the business was allowed to
drop out of sight. At the best Hewart
didn t matter much to any one except
himself He drank a good deal ;he was
found guilty of murder upon testimony
which as it related to what occurred while
he was drunk, he could in no case have
effectively challenged, and, taking it for
granted that the evidence brought against
him was true, he killed a man who was
not of much account either. The mur-
derer was only an atom at the best, and
so, likewise, was his victim. The
wrong that lay between them was an
infinitesimal item in the measureless
mass of wrong and iniquity that is from
the beginning to the end of Time ; the actors
in the miserable little drama are both dead—
and they had to die anyhow. If their lives
had been drawn out to the full limit of
human endurance it would not have
amounted to one tick more of the great pen-
dulum which measures out the passing cycles
in Its sweep, and the earth would probably
have been none the better for their presence.
If Hewart had been spared it is hardly
likely that he would have done the world
any good—few men ever do—and the fact
of his being dead has not done it any
harm. But the manner of his death has
made the community amongst which we live
a little more callou o , a little harder, a trifle
more brutal and animalised ; and the pious
sermons that the Press preached over his
dust have added a fraction to the mass of lies
and drivel and hypocrisy which weighs down
humanity at large, and which is fast turning
our so-called Christianity into corruption and
moral pestilence. And because the execu-
tion of Hewart, like every other execution,
Involved all this, The Bulletin used every
effort to save his life, feeling that every
judicial slaughter which is stayed is one more
blow to the debasing system of capital
punishment, and that with the abolition of
capital punishment one of the worst in-
fluences which ever degraded the soul of a
nation will have been extinguished.
* * *
The Sydney Echo, out of the fulness of its
pious little soul, took up the case for the
gallows, and on the evening succeeding the
execution it devoted its leading columns to a
feeble, dwarfed, and stunted curse upon
those who had attempted to cheat that
“ Christian ” institution of its prey. A s The
Bulletin took a leading part in the efforts
made to save the prisoner, it accepts the
curse with pleasure, feeling that a blessing
from such a source would be more than even
it could stagger under. Further, the Echo,
not content with tacitly commending a
wanton act of slaughter, undertook to offer
high moral reasons for this unwonted physi-
cal exercise, one of which took the form of a
protest against all agitations for the reprieve
of a condemned prisoner, and ran as follows :
“ The persistent attempts that were matle to prevent the
execution of the law upon the unfortunate man who was
handed this morning supplied a fresh illustration of the
morbid interest that is found to centre in horrible occur-
ences and extraordinary crimes. Let a man be Convicted
of a most outrageous crime and be sentenced to death, and
he immediately becomes in the minds of some people an
object of intense interest . . . When there is a hideous
crime, followed by trial, conviction, and capital sentence,
the papers teem with letters ; petitions are handed about
for signature ; people come forward eagerly to show how
probable it is that Judge and jury were wrong, and that
those whohad the painful responsibility of dealing with the
case under the law were in a less favourable position to
form a judgment upon it than their critics ... We
should hesitate to attribute such proceedings to sympathy
with crime. In some cases it is at once to be admitted that
no such suggestion can find a place. In others the explana-
tion is hard to find ; but the sentiment that prompts the
action is clearly of a morbid kind. Can any one imagine,
for instance, that the strong and sympathetic interest
shown in those oold-blooded murderers, Niciiolls and
Lester, some years ago, had a healthy origin ? The most
charitable supposition is that there is a sort of serpentine
fascination about cases like these by which some minds are
attracted and misled.”
The Echo, it will be noticed, offers this
suggestion as a charitable supposition, and we,
in our turn, will be charitable. And because
of this charity we assume that the Echo finds
a serpentine fascination which it cannot resist
in ropes and gibbets and strangled men, and
that it is to conceal this dismal c aving lhat
it accuses those who do not hold a brief for
the gallows cf possessing a morbid love of
bloodshed and loathsome sensationalism.
And in support of this view it may be pointed
out that it was not the opponents of capital
punishment or any other of the agitators who
endeavoured to save Hewart’s life who sent
reporters to witness a cold-blcoded strangula-
tion and make “copy” out of the sufferings of
a dying wretch to whom their presence in that
awful hour must have been a living horror ;
these things were reserved for the Herald
and the Echo and other papers actuated by
equally moral sentiments, and so long as the
Herald and the Echo make any portion of
their income, however small, by feeding the
craving for news from the charnel-house
let them hail the hangman as their brother,
and reserve for their personal use their
comments about the “ morbid interest ”
which “ centres in horrible occurrences and
extraordinary crimes.”
* * *
The Echo, and the multitude of other
pious organs which base their trust upon
capital punishment, advance three reasons
for the faith that is in them, and on these
three they ring a series of dismal changes
with a dull monotony of iteration resembling
nothing else on earth save the ceaseless
gabble of the maniac who grinds out one
single sentence from morn till night, and
ends it only to go back to the beginning and
start afresh. In the first place, they main-
tain that capital punishment scares the pos-
sible assassin and averts further crime ; in
the second, that it prevents the dangerous
criminal indulging in any further exercise of
his homicidal tendencies ; and in the third,
that it is based upon and sanctioned by the
divine doctrine which declares in the death-
less pages of Holy Writ that an eye shall be
taken for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
And yet, as regards every one of these
premises, they dare not act up to their creed
lest society should turn on them and rend
them as being lower and viler than the
animal creation, and, therefore, their
practice brands their theory as a cowardly
sophistry, and declares it to be a degrading
superstition of which its own advocates are
ashamed.
• • •
Years ago the rulers of the Anglo-Saxon
race regarded capital punishment as a noble
deterrent influence, and because they so re-
garded it they erected the gallows in the
street that no part of the lesson should be
lost, and that every one might see the suffer-
ings of the condemned wretch and be de-
terred thereby. Nowadays, however, the
deterrent influence is minimised by the fact
that the public are excluded from the show,
and thus the greater part of the beneficent
effect is practically lost. If the gallows is a
preventive of crime then it is as much an
influence for good as the pulpit, and it is as
unreasonable to place obstacles in the way
of those who wish to improve themselves by
the agency of the hangman as to obstruct those
who wish to learn from the eloquent words
of the congregational pastor. To place the
hangman and the gallows out of sight of the
masses is as illogical as to command that the
parson shall preach at the bottom of a coal-
pit so that nobody may hear him and profit
by his words. The legislators who removed
the gallows from the streets, however,
frankly admitted that the so-called deterrent
was a means by which the masses were
brutalised and imbued with a thirst for
blood, and so the Great Moral Lesson was
shifted out of view and public executions
were a thing of the past. The gruesome
ceremony is now performed in compara-
tive privacy, and the only persons that are
directly brutalised are the spectators, includ-
ing the reporters of the daily press, who return
to give convincing evidence of their mental
state in the columns of their respective
journals, and thus to brutalise the public at
second hand. If the Echo sincerely regards
the death penalty as a means of doing good
to the nation let it move that the gallows be
replaced ill the public thoroughfares where
its elevating influence may be experienced by
all men ; and if it regards it instead as an
agency for the demoralisation of the masses,
let it eat the eloquent pleading of its own
back numbers, and cease to send its reporters
to run the risk of being degraded and ani-
malised by contact with the hangman, and,
above all, let it decline in future to furnish
reports; however “toned-down,” of ghastly
judicial tragedies which only serve to corrupt
the minds of people ready to feast upon
narratives of blood and misery.
« a «
The second argument is a good and a
sound one, and capable of indefinite expan-
sion. The murderer who is hanged will cer-
tainly murder no more. Further, the forger
who is hanged will forge no more, and the
petty larcenist who is strangled on the gal-
lows will never steal again, and also —we
say this without any wish to be offensive—
the journalist who writes the leaders for the
Echo, should he unhappily be “scragged”
by accident or design, will never again offend
public taste and decency by writing on
behalf of the hangman. The principle is one
by which men are slaughtered, not because
of the crimes which they have committed,
but lest they should commit crimes and on
account of those which they may commit in
the future; and, therefore, as the possi-
bilities of crime are latent in every human
being, the world is not safe while anybody
is alive, and this plea is good and sufficient
reason why everybody should be hanged. If*
the Echo is willing to accept this definition
of its attitude it will, at least, be taking up
an honest and logical position, and, for the
first time in its existence, it will command
our unqualified respect.
n *
Further, if the Echo bases its sympathy
with the hangman on the old Scriptural theory
of retribution, we again ask it to be honest
and coherent, if coherence is a quality which
it can command. For on this plea it cannot
by any human possibility support capital
punishment as at present practised without
sinking for ever its belief in Paradise, in the
soul’s immortality, and m the scene
less torment which seems to be the necessary
adjunct of Paradise in Nineteenth Century
Christianity. According to the accepted
doctrine of repentance and salvation, the
darkest and vilest feature in the crime of
murder lies in the fact that the assassin cuts
off his victim without affording him time or
opportunity to make his peace with Heaven,
and thus not only destroys his body, which,
by comparison, is a crime too small for con-
sideration, but a reigns his soul to a misery
that has no enebng. For such Bin as this
the temporary pang of death by strangula-
tion is not even the beginning of adequate
retribution, and therefore we ask the Echo
if it is prepared to recommend that the con-
solations of religion should be withheld from
the condemned prisoner—that his fate should
be hurried on lest he should repent and be
saved while his victim is lost—and if it
would suggest that he should be supplied
with brandy or arrack in his last moments
in the hope that he may die with blasphemy
and cursing and go to the shades of the
mystic Inferno, and thus give an eye for an
eye, and a tooth for a tooth through all eter-
nity. For if it is not prepared to do all these
things, then it must either drop its Scripture
or its gallows, either cease to drivel about
“ justice ” and abandon for ever all the
venerable moral platitudes of its fathers, or
eke bid a long farewell to its protege, the
hangman, and utterly elesa its pages to the
loathsome details of judicial homicide.
* * *
We ask our small contemporary, therefore,
to state boldly and fearlessly on what theory
it accepts the gallows as the symbol of its
faith, and having done so to shake off the
craven fear which prevents it carrying its
principles to their legitimate and logical con-
clusion. For the three pleas which we have
enumerated sum up all that is and all that —
with any show of human decency—can be
advanced on behalf of capital punishment.
If the death penalty is exacted as a means of
teaching a great lesson in religion and
humanity it is obvious that the lesson is
meant for the nation, and not for the
criminal. Teaching of this kind is wasted on
a strangled corpse, and therefore the
gallows should be erected where young men
and delicate women and tender children could
all see it and be instructed thereby. If the
ceremony is merely intended to prevent the
victim committing another murder, then it is
not vengeance or justice but mere precaution,
and the precaution should be equally applic-
able to all, for it is as reasonable to execute
a citizen with a view to preventing the com-
mission of a first crime as a second ; and,
lastly, if the theory of capital punishment is
based on the doctrine of barbaric retribution,
then it is so ludicrously, miserably, foolishly
inadequate in its present form that it might
as reasonably be abandoned and replaced by
a vote of censure duly registered on the
minutes of the Municipal Council, or Road
Board, or Benevolent Asylum situated
nearest to the offender’s residence. Yet if
the Echo is not prepared to accept, to its
fullest extent, one of the only three hypo-
theses on which it can honestly base its faith
in the noose and the gibbet as agents for the
regeneration of mankind, then it must be pre-
sumed that it gives its suffrage for the gallows
because it loves that gruesome institution for
its own sake, because it feels that the hang-
man is bone of its bone and flesh of its flesh,
and regards a strangled corpse as a pleasant
thing to dangle between it and the morning
sun. Or, as a final alternative, it may be
that it regards the question w ith the soulless,
slavish, clod-like faith of the philosophic
driveller who sums up his creed in the
sentence, “Whatsoever is is best,” and
because the gallows exists it concludes that it
must exist for all time. But not even this
dull and ass-like resignation can anchor the
world down upon the traditions of the fast.
The gallows is the last of a long, long line of
dead and buried tortures. The stake ar.d
the faggot, the rack, the thumbscrew, the
scavenger’s daughter, the boot, and a hun-
dred other kindred institutions also had their
day, and while they endured they found
advocates as dull and dense as the Echo,
who, merely because they existed, concluded
that the world would go to pieces on the day
of their abolition. But they are gone, and
like them the gallows also will go.
» * *
The Echo, in the wisdom which is born
of moral cowardice, omits to assign any
reason for its attack upon those who en-
deavoured to avert the last of the many acts
of butchery which have disgraced the history
of New South Wales. But in the course of
its incoherent wail it unburdens itself again
as follows :
“ These agitations, while they are in a large degree un-
healthy in their source, are unwholesome in their ten-
dencies and effects. It is one thing to make a simple
petition for mercy; it is another to endeavour, on grounds
unworthy of trust, to shake public faith in the administra-
tion of justice.”
To this it i 3 only necessary to reply that
law and its administration never are, and
never have been, and never will be worthy
of that boundless trust which this censure
impbes. The laws are made by the people,
and while the people are imperfect they will
be imperfect also. They are administered
by judges who owe their positions, as a rule,
not to a process of divine selection, but to
the exigencies of politics, and who are ele-
vated as a reward for services rendered to a
leader and a party; and if the leader and
the party in question chance to advocate a
policy which does not suit the financial or
other interests of the Echo, that journal will
cheerfully denounce them in terms which
are calculated to call the whole legal and
judicial system of the country into supreme
contempt. Further, when a decision of
a judge and a court adversely affected the
interests cf the Echo proprietary that organ
did not hesitate to “ shake public faith in
the administration of justice with the stron-
gest eloquence at its command, as the
fine of £250 which was levied upon it on a
memorable occasion strikingly proves. For
our own part we decline emphatically to place
any unreasoning faith in the law, because it
is made by the corrupt generation which we
see around us, and we decline to place any
faith at all in the law on which the death
penalty rests because it was made by a past
generation which was ten times more cor-
rupt than that now existing. “W hen the law
and its administration have become so im-
maculate as to deserve the child-like confi-
dence which the Echo places in them, then
the nation by whom and for whom they have
their existence will have attained such a de-
gree of perfection that the law and all its
attendant paraphernalia may be dispensed
with for ever.
The Problem Solved.
Thus “ T over J,” in the S.M. Herald :
The public is profoundly though involuntarily involved
in these disputes between associated labour and associated
capital which mean widespread ruin as a first instalment,
and as a second (if labour wins in the struggle) a rise in
the price cf coal-hewing, which must ultimately fall on
those who were no parties to the dispute—the public have
been wonderfully slow to perceive how they will be
trampled on by this stampede of labour.
There is no reference here as to what will occur to
the coal-hewer if Capital should triumph, that is
carefully kept out of view, and the worker is
made wholly responsiblefor the dead-lock; buteven
out of the mouth of the Herald’s sociological suck-
ling, instruction may be gained, for, in his plea for
Capital, he unconsciously touches the weak point
in the present distribution of the profits of Labour.
The fine, old, crusted, Conservative writer argues
in this way—“ Is it necessary to lower the price
of an article, then the wages of its producer must
be reduced; is it necessary to raise the pay of
labour, then the selling price of the article pro-
duced by that class of labour must be increased.”
No matter what changes are made the percentage
abstracted by the capitalist (often a mere tool in
the hands of the landlord and usurer) must in no
way be curtailed. Shylock, the monopolist, must
have his pound of flesh. When goods are low-
priced the proletariat work for starvation wages ;
when consumers pay dearly for their goods the
worker benefits but little, the extra profits are
swallowed up by the monopolist, who, in a time
of low prices, strongly objects to any disgorge-
ment of previous accumulations, and throws the
entire burden of loss on the shoulders of the pro-
ducer.
* * *
What are the functions of capital ? Is not the
capitalist merely one who goes between producer
and consumer as an obtainer of orders, an adjuster
of prices, a superintendent of work, and who by
virtue of his opportunities, preys on both consumer
and producer while wholly unnecessary to the
existence of either? Labour objecting to be
“ trampled on,” it necessarily follows (according to
the Herald’s humourist) that in the wild stam-
pede of labour the public will be trampled on.
The capitalist must not have his profits, no matter
how enormous, interfered with ; he must not be
subjected to the “trampling on” process; his
motives, doubtless philanthropic, must not be ques-
tioned. Should he refuse to accede to the demands


of Labour, it is chiefly because Labour is already too
well paid, and would, if treated more liberally, use
the increase for the purposes of debauchery. This
the capitalist, as a conserver of public morality,
cannot allow, consequently in refusing to increase
wages he is supported by the clergy, a body who
are clothed in camel’s hair and fed on locusts and
wild honey. Moreover, another weighty reason
for not raising wages, or for lowering wages, is
that the pocr public should not be compelled bo
pay high prices for the commodities purchased
from the capitalist. He will nob submit to a re-
duction of his profits, therefore an increase of
wages will be followed by a rise in the price of
goods, which in turn may be followed by a lessen-
ing of sales which is also objectionable. The
men are determined to suffer no longer, therefore
the capitalist is careful to make the public under-
stand that they must suffer ; he has no intention
of lightening labour’s burden by sharing the
weight, therefore if they refuse to back him up in
forcing the men to surrender they must either
pay much higher prices for the goods he has
hitherto furnished them with, or else forego their
use altogether. This is the argument of the
capitalist and his apologists. If the public were
not an ass it would deduce some valuable informa-
tion from this strike.
* * *
The bulk of the community are workers; siding
with the coal-mine shareholders they assist to de-
preciate miners’ wages and keep up the profits of
the mining capitalist; this results in an all-round
lowering of wages ; when strikes, in consequence,
occur in any other branch of industry, the public
will be expected again to side with the employer,
and thus will their action end in the further en-
slavement of Labour, and in keeping the tax it
Says to Capital at its present high standard.
urely the thing lies in a nutshell. Do the public
require cheap goods, do they want to
earn a fair day’s wages for a fair day’s work ?
Then let them endeavour to do without the
middleman. He it is who makes goods dear and
wages low : he is the Old Man of the Sea that sits
on the shoulders of Sinbad (the community),
whom he forces to administer to his wants. The
capitalist is no more necessary to the well-being
of the world than is the parasitic creeper to the
mighty oak. The one, like the other, is a mere
useless excrescence, injurious to that which it
feeds upon, and in many cases calculated to work
its destruction. When the world is wiser, the
universal co-operation of labour will wipe the
capitalist out of existence, and an equal distribu-
tion of the earnings of labour will furnish us with
cheap goods, and contented, non-striking toilers.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“O Christ!”
Foitunately Hew art stood perfectly still during the five
or six seconds in which the assistant hangman was
neglecting his duty of pulling the lever. Finding the man
incapable of understanding the signal to draw the bolt, the
executioner (Nosey Bon) cried, “ Let go 1" in a loud voice.
Still the assistant hesitated, and had the prisoner struggled
or fainted a scene of horror might have resulted. As it
was, the hangman rushed to the lever, ejaculating the
words “ O Christ,” and instantaneous death followed upon
the more than usually long drop of Bft. —Sydney paper.
When the assistant of the New South Wale 3
hangman stood dumbfounded and dazed alongside
the drop in Darlinghurst Prison, amid a callous
mob of reporters, gaol-officials, and morbid idlers,
the Spirit of the Past gloated over the scene and
uttered its shibboleth through the lips of Jack
Ketch. Springing forward with an oath, after
vainly motioning to his paralysed subordinate to
pull the bolt, “Nosey Bob,” the hired garotter of
the law, himself seized the lever and jerked the
unhappy Hew art into eternity. “O Christ!”
This is the label of our civilisation. In this name
we teach the sacredness of human life by taking
it. In this name we pull down the Cross, and
erect in its place on the hill of Calvary a gibbet
which throws its baleful shadow over our national
life and makes our fame a reproach among the
nations. The miserable victim of an irrational
code, with his arms pinioned there amid the crowd,
with the tears running down his cheeks which he
is perforce powerless to dry; his warm body
peered into and minutely scrutinised by
hireling scribes, notebook and _ pencil in
hand ; glared at by the curious, jested
upon by the brutal, sworn at by Calc raft,
is the ultimate product, the logical result, of that
boasted social system which borrows the name
and belies the teachings of humanity’s falsified
Redeemer. The gallows is the flower and final
fruit of our civilisation. This, after centuries of
battle and penance, is the heraldic crest em-
blazoning, the proud escutcheon of the Faith
founded on the site erstwhile known to tear-
Btained generations as Golgotha and sanctified by
memories deeply human in significance. The
gentle Saviour of men, who met His death upon a
scaffold, is now blasphemed in the cause of the
nineteenth-century noose and His name employed
bv the slave of the judicial garotte in fulfilling the
hideous functions of his office. “ O Christ !”
The brutal jest is circulated amid tobacco-tainted
oaths ; white, gaping faces and wide-staring eyes
fill the place of death; the doctor is there; the
clergymen, too, stand ready with the name of
Christ on their lips; the coarse warders spit
on the prison-flags; reporters are busy with
their pencils ; a drizzle of rain; a gleam of
fitful sunlight; a rush of a man’s body through
the air; a blasphemous ejaculation—and nine-
teenth-century justice according to the blood-
stained code of New South Wales has claimed
another life. The hangman who utbered the now
historic oath is called Howard. *A fine old flavour is
there about this ancient high-caste name, reddened
with other blood than that the laureate sings.
A fitting implement, this Howard, to give effect
to the law established by the ssvords of his foresires,
the other Howards whose glaives were hilted with
the Cross —sign of His death whose name gave
emphasis to a frenzied jerk by a savage hangman
in the doing to death of his fellow-man. “ 0
Christ !” The shivering criminal in the dock
sobbing like a forsaken child, broken down by the
one word from yonder juryman which opens only
a grave at his feet, be-lectured and be-
homilised by the Christian judge, learns,
and perhaps for the first time, the lesson
of divine mercy, the meaning of that
famous phrase anent “Goodwill to men”
contained in the Bible upon which the laws of
England and the secret of her greatness are built
up. “ 0 Christ !” The gallows is a fair plant,
and thrives on the blood poured out at its foot.
The crown of thorns has become a noose, and has
slipped down to the neck and presses hard on the
carotid artery of latter-day humanity. The
crowning institution is the gibbet 1 By this sign
shall we conquer, and in these frantic and philo-
sophical times of alleged enlightenment we feel
impelled to echo after the hangman the name in
which so much wrong and hideous human suffer-
ing and wanton unmeaning butchery is daily
wrought—and we echo it with all reverence —
“ 0 Christ 1”
Artificial Values.
The Melbourne Argus states, with that noble
disregard of sense which is its strongest charac-
teristic, that “no artificial value can long be
§iven to the soil.” This remarkable statement is
ragged in to do service in an article on the love-
liness of Free trade, private property in land, and
things in general. Probably, however, the Argus
really does not know how much the wide term
“artificial value” covers, and is utterly unaware
of the attenuated nature of its argument. The
ground on which Melbourne is built has a value
which is almost purely artificial; it began to
acquire that value when Melbourne first began to
be built, and it will not altogether lose it until
the last two bricks of Melbourne fall apart from
each other. The artificial value of Melbourne
land is caused solely by the artificial fact that
Melbourne is on top of it; if Melbourne were re-
moved, the land would be as solid and—regarded
merely as an agglomeration of dirt and rock and
vegetable mould—as precious as ever, but yet its fic-
titious value would be entirely gone. The difference
between the natural and the artificial value of land
is the difference between the relative values of the
soil in Melbourne and in Nineveh—or rather on
the spot where Nineveh used to be. The rush for
corner allotments in the old ciby of Ninus and
Ashur has died away, and with it values have
sunk to zero, yet the soil is as solid and probably
as productive as ever before; and when Melbourne
shares the fate of Nineveh, and the shores of Port
Philip are left empty, and the Argus itself has
degenerated into a mass of rust, the land will re-
main—minus nothing but the inflation which is
born of bricks and mortar and unwholesome ag-
gregations of stifled humanity. But after all, the
“ natural ” value of land is an indeterminate
quantity. In almost every country the value of
land depends entirely on the urgency of the desire
of someone to possess it, and values thus fixed are
necessarily artificial. Therefore all values in a
civilised community are more or less artificial, and
those of city land are entirely so. The attempt
of the Argus to assert that there is practically no
such thing as artificial value in the earth’s surface
is meant to crush out with a sheet of paper and a
blob of ink the argument of the Land Nationalisa-
tion party, who demand that all artificial values
— i.e., values which land acquires through the
massing together of humanity on its surface
and through other circumstances entirely apart
from the improvement or cultivation of the soil
itself—should be forfeited to the State. The
patrons and supporters of the Argus are daily
making fortunes out of the artificial value of land,
and in its infatuated desire to postpone the day
when this system of spoliation will come to
an end, that dull twopennorth attempts to
prove that the means through which these
fortunes are accumulated never had any real ex-
istence. But, unfortunately, the Argus asserts
too much, and doesn’t prove anything at all. It
bitterly opposes the scheme to appropriate arti-
ficial values to the State, and denounces it as rob-
bery and wholesale fraud, but as—according to its
own showing—artificial values have no per-
manent existence and hardly any existence at
all, it follows that it is struggling to hang
on to a thing which isn’t there, and is fight-
ing to preserve something which neither it nor
anybody else ever saw or possessed. Its oppo-
nents desire to seize upon what it declares to be a
shadow, and out of this shadow to pay all the
costs of Government to the utter extinction of the
present financial burdens of the country, and the
Argus replies that it will cling to this reflection of
the intangible to the bitter end Surely it is
hardly worth while to wrestle so bitterly for the
ownership of the mere wraith of a dead economical
superstition.
Stage Grovel.
Theatre - advertising - grovel smelleth rank~
whab a merry wag we are ! —from afar off, and is
becoming dangerous to the public health. The
gentlemen who supply stage plays for the amuse-
ment of our democratic communities are for ever
announcing Extra Grand Fashionable Nights and
Vice-regal Command Performances, on which oc-
casions they morally bend low to embrace the
gracious boot of the particular Excellency who is
extending his Distinguished Patronage. Governors
appear to approve of this treacle under the im-
pression that it make us stick to the Throne and
has something to do with Imperial Federation
and things like that. The public take it quite as
a matter of course, while the high-bred ladies
of long Australian descent say : “ Only
fancy, two command-nights in one week. ’
Now, it is a natural historical fact that
this same species of grovel doesn’t flourish in
the old country. Pott3 Point and Toorak will
be upset to learn that it is un-English, and there-
fore nob at all the cheese. When the Prince of
Wales engages a private box fora “first night”
at the Lyceum, Irving doesn’t advertise the deal,
nor do the daily papers come out with “last
night’s performance was under the patronage,”
&c , &c. We will be just, even to the Royal
family, and candidly confess that they object to
be slobbered over in this connection. Some 10
years ago the Duke of Edinburgh was “struck
on a comedy performance at the Globe Theatre,
London. He went to see it four times, and at the
end of its run the manager and “star,” poor
Harry Montague (who died in abject poverty)!
made some mild reference in print to the frequent
visits of royalty. E rom tliat time forth the
offended Edinburgh and his relatives gave Mon-
tague’s theatre the cold shoulder. How comes it
that Carington, Loch, and Co. encourage Aus
tralian managers to use them for purposes of ad-
vertisement, when their royal betters won’t
tolerate the system ? Un-English and bad form,
dontcherknow.”
+
Mr. Cahill’s Bill.
In the New South Wales Supreme Court last week
the Chief Justice rose and heaved an important
censure at Mr. J. A. B. Cahill, solicitor, a
gentleman whose conduct, he declared, practically
“amounted to fraud” and was generally unworthy
of a gentleman by Act of Parliament. The trouble
concerning Mr. Cahill was that he made up a
bill for £2513 18s. 4d. for work which the Pro-
thonotary valued at £372 11s. Bd.—in other words,
that he charged about seven times as much as he
was entitled bo receive; and as a further com-
plication, he was accused of having attached
another man’s initials to a memorandum, a
thing which even a solicitor ought not to do,
despite the great scope for using other people’s
names and other people’s money which the law
allows to that favoured class. The charge of forgery
was by no means reduced to absolute certainty,
the man whose initials appear on the brief having
stated that he was not prepared to say whether
they were or were not put there by him,
though the Chief Justice declared that the evi-
dence “left a very unfavourable impression ” on
the minds of the Court. In this respect we con-
sider that Mr. Cahill has been unjustly treated,
inasmuch as if he had been tried by a jury they
would have been compelled to find a verdict either
of “guilty” or “not guilty,” whereas the Court
has chosen a course which leaves the charge just
where it was at the outset. But the other accusation
which, in the opinion of the Bench, “amounted
to fraud,” was proved to the satisfaction of the
three judges on the bench, and they poured out
the vials of their burning wrath on the head of the
defendant. Then they lined him £lOO and turned
him loose to graze as before on the green pastures
of verdant clients, and as Mr. Cahtll, despite
the tremendous reduction of his bill-of-costs, had
yet £.370 to collect, the transaction still showed
a liberal profit. Simple-minded people now
want badly to know how Chief Justice Darley
assesses the market value of an attempt to annex
other people’s portable assets. If the language of
that elevated lawyer amounts to anything he held
Mr. Cahill to be guilty of plain, unvarnished
fraud, and yet, when he rose in the majesty of his
wrath, he only fined him 4i par cent, on the value
of the “swag.” The ordinary lay fraud who
attempts, by virtue of his address and plausibility,
to lift £5, and doesn’t meet with even the modified
success which attended Mr. Cahill’s efforts,
generally get 12 months’ hard labour at the very
lowest estimate, and, valuing his labour while en-
joying the blessings of freedom at the moderate
figure of £lOO per annum, he thus pays 2000 per
cent, onthemoneywhichhedidn’tget. Thedisgrace
and discomfort and misery of imprisonment are all
thrown in gratis in this calculation, and they
would be dirt-cheap at another 2000 per cent., but
even leaving them all out, it follows either that a
lawyer is privileged to defraud, or that his feelings
deserve 1995 J per cent, more consideration than
those of any other man who isn’t a lawyer, or else
that the three judges let M’r. Cahill off easily be-
cause, having themselves been lawyers, they could
comprehend how he felt, and couldn’t at all com-
prehend how his clients would havefelt if compelled
to pay his atrocious bill. At all events fraud, as that
offence is understood and defined by the Chief J ustice
of New South Wales, has found its market value,
and according to the present estimate it leaves
the offender a balance of £272 11s. Bd. even when
he is found out, while in the more numerous cases
where he isn’t found out the takings are £2513185.
4d. more or less. These figures, however, apply
only to lawyers; in other branches business will be
carried on as usual, and the layman who lifts two
pairs of boots will continue to get three years’
with hard labour in the good old style, which is
one of the brightest features of Australian justice.
4
Albert Victor.
A large open-air meeting, consisting of about
1000 persons, assembled in the Hay market in the
centre of Bristol, recently, called together to con-
sider the proposal that the Town Council should
present a “loyal address” to Prince Albert
Victor of Wales. Several prominent citizens
having spoken on the subject, the following resolu-
tion wa3 carried with only one dissentient: —
That this meeting heartily protests against the Town
Council presenting an address to Prince Alkert Victor
on the ground that he has nothing to recommend him but
the accident of being born of a family unjustly privileged
to such an extent as is disgraceful to the common sense of
the English paople for allowing; and for the further
reason that the members of the Council have no authority
from their constituents to present such an address, or to
do any act by which encouragement may be given to
hereditary privileges (of which the Crown is the centre)
that press hard on the people and retard progress.
Says Reynolds’ Weekly
The expected 'interruption of the meeting by the police
was not made. There is a well-organised party taking
part in this action, and matters promise to be rather warm
oy the time o! the proposed royal visit.
♦
The down-trodden citizens of Melbourne will, it is
now understood, be allowed to drive their vehicles
on the precious tramway-line. A lorryman, who
was recently fined for keeping too near the centre
of the Queen’s highway, lodged an appeal against
the Court’s decision, and a very bloated monopoly
has been advised not to fight the matter further.
That the Tramway Company had the impudence
to claim a supreme vested interest in a public
route is only another proof of the want of real
public spirit—as distinguished from banquet gas-
conade —which causes Australians to be the most
bye-law ruled people under the sun. They would
have allowed their liberties to be filched from
under their very feet if a hard-headed lorryman
hadn't commenced to kick. Talking of mono-
polies, nobody takes the trouble to protest against
this Special Notice issued by the Melbourne Met-
ropolitan Gas Company■
In consequenoe of the price of coal having greatly in-
creased, the price for gas supplied by the Company, will,
from this date and until further notice, be increased in
accordance with its Act of Incorporation.
Only the other day, this same Company dfclared
a disgustingly fat dividend of 18 per cent, and
added a further fat sum to its reserve fund. And
now, at the mere prospect of a rise in the price of
coal (which the Company has not yet been corn-
palled to purchase in large quantities) it begins to
tax a whole cityful of compulsory customers for
the benefit of a few hundred shareholders in what
should rightfully be a Government property.
Granted that the greed of Newcastle coal-owners
has caused a sudden advance in the co3t of gas-
production—ought not the gas companies to suffer
equally with consumers ? What sort of Act of
Incorporation is this which gives a private mono-
poly power to squeeze large profits from the
people in times of plenty and famine alike ? What
sort of people are they that submit to be so
squeezed? All the householders in Melbourne
who use gas at all, must pay 20, 30, or 40 per cent,
more for each hundred feet of it, and meantime the
Company, which trades upon their necessities,
is not called upon to make the smallest sacrifice.
The incorporated Moses must have his 18 pe
shent. (b9ing eight per cent, more than the incor
porated Aaron, of London, is allowed to extort) let
coal cost what it likes. And the proud-spirited
Australian—that pushing, dashing, keen-witted,
not-to-be-imposed-upon colonist of whom the
papers are continually “cracking on” stands it all
like a frozen sheep.
♦
To the uninitiated the fact that a man was being
systematically robbed by one of his fellow-crea-
tures, who happened to be placed by an in-
iquitous social system in a position that
enabled him to perpetrate the robbery with im-
punity, would go far to palliate the act of that man
in appropriating the boots of his oppressor. But
Mr District Court Judge Noel, of Queensland, dees
not regard things in this light. It was ostensibly
the consideration that Benjamin Kitts had stolen
two pairs of boots, value 405., from his employer
that caused that learned Judge to boil over with
indignation and sentence the unfortunate prisoner
to the absurdly disproportionate punishment of
three years’ penal servitude But Judge Noel is
a member of the dominant class. That Kitts’
employer should run him at competition wages
and systematically despoil him of all but a pittance
of the wealth created by his labour the Judge
would regard as not only natural but as being, in
some miraculous way, so remarkably beneficial to
Kitts that he ought to regard his employer with
life-long gratitude; and when that unfortunate
employee is convicted of having appropriated two
miserable pairs of boots, value 405., he feels it
incumbent on him, in the interests of his class, to
strike him down with all the overpowering force
his position on the Bench places at his command.
--
Thadeus O’Kane, of North Queensland, has en-
tered the fold and lain down full-length among
the innocent lambs of the time. He is ndw a tee-
totaller. That is not all. He proposes to estab-
lish a Cosmopolitan Society, from which alcoholic
drink in all forms shall be excluded. Both these
things are good in their way. If Thady got
drunk he might not be able to express himself as
elegantly as when he is sober, and his opinions
about the world in general might be a shade less
reliable. And what is true of Thadeus will be
true of his whole Cosmopolitan Society. Thus, if
the Society can be properly organised, there is
likely a career of some usefulness before it. But
Mr. O’Kane says
If that Cosmopolitan Society is established I shall not
accept the services of new printers, apprentices, book
keeper, reporters, sub-editor, or editor who refuses to
join it.
A sober man who would make this resolve is
capable of being a terror should anyone give him
drink. In what way does the principle adopted
here differ from that which the bigot in religion
asserts when he makes the employment of a work-
man depend on the profession of a creed ?
In the Potter's Field.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Now, this is a like enough spot for the grave of
our man. Ho you see,
It’s cut clean away from the place where re-
spectable dead people rot ?
For poet and orator, writer and artist, as was
Deniehy
His value to those who run churches and grave-
yards was not worth a thought.
“ The saintly remains of the heavy-purged publican
lie over there,
Where order and decency reign, and the pawn-
broker, too, slumbers flat,
With gilt rails around his neat plot in that
quarter ; but here in this bare
And desolate corner we’ll come on the genius we
want to get at.
“ Hey ! Read it—his name on the headstone !
Come, spit on your hands now, and throw
The sods to the right and the bones on this cloth
to the left. Chuck that out!
0 Deniehy, this was a part of thee thirty-three
summers ago!
Go, wire down to Dan that we’ve bottomed on
genuine bones without doubt!
“ And what part can this be, I wonder ?” A piece
of his jawbone, you say ?
“ But isn’t it big for that purpose ? ” “ Well, but
he was great in his jaw.”
“ It looks like a piece of a shoulder-blade—any-
way, labour away
And casket as much as you can of the best man
the years ago saw.”
“ What, open the casket again ! It is not the
right bones we have got ?
You mean it? His name’s on the headstone.
But if you will have it, we bow.
Here, open ! ” You see these old boots are a
jibe at the orator’s lot.
He could not get boots when alive, and just
think of him having them now !”
“ ’Tis monstrous. Besides, they are gaol-boots.
Now, here’s the mistake you have made—
A scoundrel called Spider, a blackfellow, died
on the gallows, and when
They cut down his body, they threw it where
Deniehy’s body was laid,
And you have raised Spider the blackfellow !”
“ Easy, now, then
“Is not this small i>iece of a jawbonea white-man’s?
You see it was white !”
“But white-men and black-men and red-men and
all men at bone are the same;
The noblest whose name is a glory, and meanest
whose name is a blight
Alike are, when life and flesh perish and earth
has had feast of the frame !
“ The bone which you show may, I grant you,
have helped to proclaim what is true,
Have capsized huge bulks of fat falsehoods and
sent them down hill with a spin,
But may have helped only to yabber in swamps of
the mind, where the view
Is bounded on high by a ’possum and bounded
below by a gin !”
“ All this means that back we must carry the
casket and what it contains,
And fill up again ! So, whatever we must do,
we may as well do
With instant despatch. Come, we must get, if
not the authentic remains,
At least such as will be sufficiently like for the
object in view.”
“Now, here is a skull I could fancy. You see it
was wide in the brows ;
It looks like a home of high musings, and
almost persuades to enact
The monologue Yorick’s skull started when dug
from its silent, cold house—
But somehow I’m out of the element, not being
sure of the fact.
“We’ll chance it. This skull we’ll call his. Now
work carefully down all the way ;
The bones that are on the same stratum are sure
to be his, too.” “But see,
“This man was a giant! Just measure his leg
bones by yours, and then say
How can we take these in the casket as remnants
of short Deniehy ?”
“Well, what shall we do? There are skulls here
in number, and can we not fit
Together a frame that will meet the occasion ?
You see, what we want
Are poet’s remains, and the bones of a poet are
barren of wit
As bone 3 of the dingo and wildcat that grave-
yards on moonless nights haunt.
“ TheD, in with this skull. ’Tis a clean one, and
bulged as you see over there.
That’s where, one election, an argument struck
him. There’s sense in that view,
For if this is not his, wherever his skull is ’tis
certain to bear
The marks of the logic that proved in his day an
opinion was true !
“ And now that our labour is past, let our voices
in unison rise,
And tell how thoueh genius may starve, yet
bright glory will follow the gloom,
When up from beneath or when down from the
ever-compassionate skies
A man like the Jaynil appears and goes loose
with a speech and a tomb! ”
E. L.


CORRESPONPENCE
“R.8.T.”: You aren’t quite the person we
thought you were. Payment of members is not a scheme
for “ basting the fat pig ” as you desoribe it. It is a
means of getting the lean pig into Parliament, which is
quite a different thing “ Omikron ” (Kempsey): Your
yarn is under our solemn consideration “A.8.M.”
(Ryde): Too elaborate, and the joke partly left out
some extent, as it were, dontchewknow... .“Zeph ”
Please ca11....“C0n L.” : Who was “Miriam,” and why
do you go on like this about her grave ?
“ Ab, nevermore ; though latent love has waked,
It has faded fast, that fitful past;
Ah, nevermore may passion’s power be staked.
Speed mythy maze, Life’s empty haze,
For never now may passion’s craze be slaked.”
We don’t wish to offer “criticism or borack,” but
we hold that the latent fire of that one verse
amounts to incendiarism. Seriously, the meohanism of
your verses is excellent, but the ideas are too
involved even for poetry “J. Veale ” : We
passed your letter on to the man who writes
the long leaders about biology and protoplasm and
evolution and eataolysm, and germs and other deep-rooted
things. He was sorry to note that you had left immedia-
tely on writing, as it prevented him coming after you...
“Subscriber” (George-street, Sydney): Your letter was
overlooked, and, judging from the ignorance it shows, it
wouldn’t have mattered if it had been overlooked some
more. England didn’t pay France a cent in the campaign in
question, in fact France found most of the men and money,
and did most of the fighting. England didn’t obtain the
“ assistance ” of France, either, for France took the lead
from first to last. It was England who was the “assistant. >’
and rather a poor assistant, t 00.... “ Cussed ” : Get a big
horseshoe magnet and put it up alongside his piano....
“J.D.”: : “Ad Vinum” is bosh “Ease”: The paper
must have gone astray; we have not seen it....“G.’’
(Boroolong): Unfortunately your sentiments outshine
your metre, and your organ of ideality is, as yet, unfor
tunately greater than your knowledge of the language of
per fide Albion.... “G. Bruntly” (Goulburn): By wha
occult standard of excellence do you associate Charles
Wentworth, Sir Thomas M'lhvraith, John Dunmore Lang,
Henry Kendall, John Farrell, Adam Lindsay 7 GcrdoD,
Daniel Henry Deniehy, and—Peter Kemp? Your sug-
gestion, however, shall have our serious consideration.
(2) What is our opinion of the Catholic religion ? Simply
that it is the Toryism of Dogma. Protestantism is, like
Freetrade, Limited Monarohy, and many other things
which we get from England, a compromise between faith
and rea50n....“H.G.8.” (Waverley): Many thanks....
*‘ Tasman ” : Will duly appear “ Protection ” (Albury) :
The obnoxious individual shall be annihilated “A.
Heany ” (Ballarat): The very best popular summary of
the principles of German socialism is a work by an
American author, “ The Co-operative. Commonwealth,” by
Laurence Gronlund. It is published by a London house*
Swan, Sonneschein & Co., and will cost you only two
shillings “Miss Foureyes ”: Your sketch “Square Pegs
in Round Holes ”is not badly written—as a sketch, but it is
terribly vague, and very local. Only those who know
at whom you were hitting could appreciate it....
“Abstainer” (Brisbane): We are perfectly willing to
agree with you that Sir Thomas M‘llwraith “ ought to be
killed.” Most men ought to be killed. You ought. But
before M'llwraith is killed we are of opinion that he
should be provided with facilities for attending the
funeral of all the other politicians in Queensland....
“ Fid. Def.” (Auckland): Letter mislaid and just turned
up. We do propose issuing a “book of Bulletin ex-
tracts ” when we have time to look after it. For the rest
we don’t undertake to support any man through thick
and thin, and, therefore, though we admire Gladstone, we
object to his Freetrade ideas. Salisbury, you say, is a
Protectionist, and because we hate Salisbury’s Coercion
system you think we should go against him on this point
also. We don’t see it. Nero had two legs. We don't
admire Nero, but we mean to have two legs just like him
till a tramcar orushes our ambition in this direction. The
Repeal of the Corn Laws, which you quote so eloquently,
has led to the reduction of Britain’s wheat yield
by nearly 45 per cent., and if you are satisfied with
that result it doesn’t take muoh to bring you joy
“ J.J.M.” (Wilcannia) : Thanks very much.... “A Tale
of the Devil ”: What’s your name, please ? “E. Mat-
son ” : There is no doubt that local influence helped Mr.
Howe, the Protectionist, at Redfern, just as the want of
local influence killed the chances of Mr. Poole, the Pro-
tectionist candidate at Gunnedah ; but, after all, does it
not astonish you as a Freetrader that any Protectionist,
local or otherwise, should have had the slightest chance
at Redfern? “M.G.” (Launoeston): We would gladly
knock the stuffing out of the enclosed,” but unluckily
we can’t find it....“C.L.” (Melbourne): (1.) You can
learn shorthand without a tutor, but you will learn it
sooner if you get one. (2.) Adopt Pitman's system....
“P.D.” (Tumut): Yes, it was Witoh-of-Endory Parkes
who raised the Kiama Ghost....“S. A.”: Gravity is no
more an evidence of wisdom than a paper collar is of a
shirt “W.A.C.T.”: Many thanks “EW.”: One of
the rules of the S.M. Herald seems to be never to de-
cently report a speech of a young politician “T.0.D.”
(Woodburn, R.R.): Thanks....“E.J.Y., and many
others ” : We have always heard that every Irishman was
a humourist, but we are beginning to doubt this. Dan
o,Connor suffices to prove that the rule has at least one
exception.... “Walter S.”: We will do the N.S.W
authorities the justice of saying that they have handed
not a few men on evidence just as inconclusive as that
which has convicted certain, bones from Bathurst Ceme-
tery of being the mortal remains of a poet. “EH W ”•
Thanks for suggestion. The picture will be iooked at ' *
Walters, : Nature is inexorable. It would be iust'as
rational to pray for water in Sheol as to pray ffir it on
earth when it s not on tap.
ITred. Leslie was interviewed the other day and
expressed himself as hugely pleased with the
beauteous longitude of the Australian girl but
what, we would ask, would the Australian girl be
stretch, out her lovely proportions
with the stimulating influence of Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, the favourite beverage of the Bar and
tjie ballet:
Lhe Associated Masters threaten to im-
port a few cargoes of Belgian labour, and bring
the N.S.W. miners to their knees. If the Aus-
tralian workmen are worth a cent, they will no
more allow cheap Belgian-labour to land at New-
castle or Port Jackson than they would cheap
labour from China. Those in authority in
N.S.W. are very fond, when it suits them, of say-
ing that Australia is to be “kept for the English-
apeaking races.”
History of Botany Bay.
THE END OF THE STORY.
This history of Botany Bay reaches its
last episode in the granting of Responsible
Government in 1856. The reader has seen
how the settlement developed from stage to
stage in the earlier chapters of this story,
and he may now be said to be thoroughly
acquainted with the people, the officials, and
the system of these early days. In the time
of Bourke we saw the beginning of the
changes, and later on the break-up of the
convict-system and the cessation of transpor-
tation. Then came the gold discovery, and
with it the influx of new population made up
of men and women who had not been
broken in to the convict-system and the
spiritof gaoler-officialism, ontheonehand, and
to that tone of cringing subservience on the
other which it necessarily engendered. New
blood came into the country at the rate of
90,000 arrivals per annum, and all this time
the convict element was at first gradually and
then rapidly dying out. It was practically a
new people that won the fight against the old
conditions which they had no act or part in
producing, and which they were determined
not to tolerate.
* Vfc * *
It is interesting to observe how the pro-
cess of development went on from this point.
The new people were not satisfied with the
social conditions of the colony as they found
them, but they had not, at the same time,
any definite conception of that which
was to take their place. There was no
Adams or Jefferson among them to re-
enact the splendid historical role played
by these great men of bold and original mind
in the old American colonies. The half
emancipated immigrants who began to fill
the towns of the colony had no one to open
their minds to a conception such as that
embodied in the opening lines of the
American declaration of independence, which
sets forth the equality of men and their
equal rights to equal chances in the battle of
life. On the contrary, the designers of the
feeble patchwork of the Colonial Constitution
were blinded by their early training and
traditions, and had not yet forgotten to pull
the forelock to the squire, or cringe to the
colonial imitator whom they found ready
here to take his pla,ce. They embodied their
timid spirit in their Constitution, and with it
all those feudal traditions which the framers
of the American Constitution, in a wise
spirit of philosophic statesmanship, lost no
time in lopping off at the roots.
* * *
Mr. Wentworth is usually credited with
the authorship of the Constitution of New
South Wales, on which that of the other
colonies is modelled. But this is only half
true. A great deal that he advocated was
too much even for the amorphous popular
intelligence as it then existed, and his pro-
posals were very seriously altered before they
became the letter of the Constitution. At
the same time it is to be observed that if
Mr. Wentworth had exercised his great
force of character and influence in the right
direction—if he had been a man of original
philosophic mind, capable of grappling with
the problems to be presented in the history
of a young country, he might have given the
colonies constitutions of a much broader and
more liberal caste than those which are
usually credited to his erigination.
* * *
The events relating immediately to the
granting of the Constitution and Responsible
Government date from 1851. In that year
Mr. Wentworth, in his place in the Council,
moved a resolution that the House was pre-
pared to grant a Civil List to the Queen, on
condition of receiving responsible control of
the lands and revenue of the country. Some
months later a minute was entered on the
Proceedings, setting forth the sense of the
House that the Imperial Parliament should
not have the power to impose colonial taxes,
and that the public lands and revenues,
official appointments, and legislative powers
should be at the command of the colonial
authorities, and not at that of the Secretary
of State for the Colonies. In 1852 a com-
mittee was appointed to draft a Constitution
for the colony. It consisted of Messrs.
Wentworth, Donaldson, Deas-Thomson (then
Colonial Secretary), Attorney-General Plun-
kett, J. Macartliur, Cowper, Lamb, Martin,
Murray, and Dr. Douglas. In September of
the same year two Bills were laid on the
table of the House—to confer a Constitution
on the colony, and to grant a Civil List to
the Queen.
* # *
Next year saw considerable progress. Sir
John Pakington, then Secretary of State for
the Colonies, transmitted an official despatch
to the Governor, announcing that it had
been decided, on the representation of the
Council, that the revenue and taxation
should be entrusted to the local legislature,
that transportation to Tasmania should cease
forthwith, and that a Parliament should be
called together in New South Wales on the
basis of an elective Assembly and a nominee
Council. The Governor reported the de-
spatch to the Council, which at once ap-
pointed a committee to draw up a Constitu-
tion. The members of this committee were
ballotted for, and Messrs. Wentworth, Deas-
Thomson, Plunkett, Cowper,
Martin, Donaldson, Macleay, Thurlow, and
Murray were chosen. Mr. Wentworth was
elected chairman of this Constitution Com-
mittee, from the proceedings of which the
present Constitution was evolved. When
Mr. Wentworth brought up his report it was
found that the framers so utterly miscon-
ceived their office and the desires of the
people, as to advocate the creation of a peer-
age for members of the Upper House, with
hereditary titles. This was a scheme worthy
of the time of the Norman Conquest, or of a
gang of South Sea Island freebooters, and
it was received on the part of the public
with all the contempt it deserved. Unspeak-
able ridicule was poured out on the devoted
heads of the Baron of Woolloomooloo and
the Duke of Yaucluse, as the ambitious
creatures who devised this notable project
were called.
* * *
Public meetings took the matter up and
began to discuss this peerage question with
a good deal of acrimony. An advertisement
was issued to the public calling attention to
the proposed creation of Botany Bay peers
out of the representatives of the old New
South Wales Corps and the officialdom of
the convict-system. The formation of an
Upper House in which the people would
have no voice was condemned, and a protest
entered against the plot “to fix irrevocably on
the people this oligarchy in the name of free
institutions, so that no future Legislature
can reform it even by an absolute majority."
A great meeting was called at the Royal
Hotel in George-street, Sydney, in August,
1853, to express the popular mind on this
subjfect. Messrs. John Bayley Darvall,
Johnson, Henry Parkes, Mort, Deniehy,
M‘Encroe, Piddington, Flood, and others
addressed the gathering and spoke up man-
fully against the mushroom peerage pro-
posals. It was decided by the meeting that
the Bill was radically defective, and the
populace bound themselves to oppose every
attempt to foist a Constitution on the colony
so distinctly inimical to the wisheß and
interests of the people.
* * #
The Constitution Committee, however,
went on with their measure. Mr. Went-
worth proposed the second reading of the
Constitution Bill in its objectionable form,
and after a debate of seven days its adoption
was carried tty a majority of 34 votes to 8.
This action of the Legislative Council showed
the public that their interests were not safe
in the hands of its members, and the fact
e-xcited them to still stronger measures
of agitation. A great gathering took place
at the Circular Quay to. petition the Queen
against the Constitution Bill, and the attempt
of the old leaven to wreck the prospects of
free institutions just as they seemed to be at
the point of realisation. The People’s Con-
stitution Committee was here declared in
permanent session to take steps to protect
the popular rights from the Committee of
the Council.' ' The peerage proposals were
withdrawn, and when the House was moved
into Committee on December 6, to consider
the Bill, the other clause conferring life-
membership on the existing Government
was dropped in deference to these,*, mani-
festations, and the third reading passed by
27 votes to 6 on December 21, 1853, amid a
great demonstration of applause from the
members of the Legislative Council. The
Constitution created two Houses, the Assem-
bly to sit for five years and the Council for
life. Messrs. Wentworth and Deas-Thomson
were sent to England to pilot the measure
through the British Parliament, and on its
final passing there and receiving the warranty
of the Royal Asgent, returned with the news
4o New South Wales. Immediate steps were
now token for the election of the first Parlia-
ment® and all the business was completed
and the elections over by May, 1856, On
the 22nd of that month the first popular
Parliament sat in the' old Council Chambers
in Macquarie-street, Sydney, tor the first
time.
* * *
There is no necessity to pursue this record
any further. We have now seen the latest
stages in the development of the political
institutions of the colony, and the circum-
stances show exactly the same conflict of
vested interests and old-time traditions
against the popular sentiment that every
stage in the colony’s history has exhibited.
Manhood suffrage came later, and it may
now be said that, with this and the'free in-
stitutions we possess, the political future of
the Australian system is in the hands of the
people themselves.
* * *
It may be so. It may be that for what we
have we must blame or praise ourselves —
that the power for good or evil is in the
people’s hands, and that they can do what-
ever they will. But if the reader who has
followed the progress of the story we have
undertaken to here set down without exag-
geration or extenuation, will compare the
things of to-day with the occurrences
of the time antecedent to forty or
fifty years ago, he will no.t fail to
note the distinct survival of some of the
worst features of the worst period of Botany
Bay. They have been veneered over and
hidden from ready view by the change of
manners and the lapse of years, but the
essentials of our criminal law, the official
mind, and the spirit of our political action
and outlook are much the same. Our
criminal law, we are often told, is more
bloody and brutal than any other ‘on the
face of God’s earth to-day. . Every death-
sentence recorded in our courts of law shows
that the gallows is only reft of its victim
after the most violent and strained relations
between the popular sentiment and the
official mind, if the lunatic criminal or the
practically irresponsible boy is ever rescued
from the grip of the hangman at all. The
lash and the flogging laws are still in active
operation in the Australasian colonies, and
the penal system is still to all intents and
purposes as powerless for reform as ever it
was in the instances we have individualised
in the pages that have gone before.
* * *
The official mind is the last refuge and
resting-place of what remains of the past.
When Dr. AVhately and his fellow-workers
spoke against the convict-system fifty years
ago, as we quoted those earnest and
thoughtful men some chapters back, they
recommended the break-up of the convict-
system as the least of the steps to be taken
to eradicate the evils it had caused. They
were still more earnest in advocating the
removal of the centre of settlement from the
scenes of early misery and horror, and from
anything that could suggest the past to the
popular mind. The old officialism, too*
should be swept away root and branch ; and
this with the view of leaving no influence in
existence which would operate to ptesei've
any of the spirit of the old days of degradation.
* # *
But the influence that had been built up
through so many years in the colony had
too much power to allow itself to be swept
away. As the men of the new period
brought out by Responsible Government
rose in the political scale, they were absorbed
by the ‘ ‘ Conservative ” class in the com-
munity. ©ur history is full of instances of
men who began their careers in sympathy
with the indefinitely-expressed popular senti-
ment and ended them as tinselled knights of a
flimsy colonial order. But our history is pass-
ing through an intermediate stage, and the
period of transition is still to come. Indi-
cations are forthcoming every day that a
new race is growing up in Australia, which
is not Colonial but Australian, and which
only requires to be put on the right track
and trusted to its honest instinets to work
out Australia’s future on bright and popular
national lines which will not have their
starting-point in the miserable episodes of
old-time squalor, or their vanishing-point in
Federation or Imperialism. It is for the
guidance of this instinct, and to assist the
popular mind in coming to broad conclusions
on national questions? that this political
pamphlet on the beginnings of Australian
colonisation has been written.
Two of a Kind.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It was an ancient mariner and he was tali and
thin,
Well marked by many voyages and also marked
by gin;
He wore a spotted handkerchief and in it wore a
pin—
He;w ias a swell!
And up the street a preacher came, a temperance
man was he,
His face was meek and gentle as a human face
could be,
He soon espied and ran to meet this stranger from
the sea
His tale to tell.
“ Oh, sinful, swearing sailor man, frfear that nose
so red
Is caused by pouring something else than water in
your head,
And di’mond pins is vanities, ”*the preacher softly
said,
And gently sighed.
“ Good sir,” the worthy salt replied, “ IVe often
felt the same, *
B,ut darn my fore-top capstan, I’d think it were
a shame
To wear it not, for ’tis a gift from one Jack
Green by name,
And he has died.”
“Oh, sailor man, all flesh is grass, and therefore
nay, of course,
For Jacky Green, whate’er he’s been, ’tis right to
feel remorse;
But woe don’t coijer vanity, and grief don’t sin
endorse,
It still is sin.
“ Ah, cast away such vanities, all Satan’s wiles and
deeds,
And help our noble cause along, for it hath hosts of
needs,
I’ll sell the pin and straightway give the cause the
w net proceeds.
* Give me the pin.”
That sailor man he handed o’er the pin,< and as he
did
A gentle wink seemed trembling upon one upper
lid,
And in one ample fob of his the preacher’s watch
he slid,
And left in haste.
And sundry minutes after sullen awear-words sky-
ward soared,
And o’er the absent mariner his wrath that?
preacher poured ~ /
Not only was his watch gone but, to make it worse.'
Oh Lord !
That pin was paste 1
ZEPH.


Responsible Government is about to be granted
bo Western Australia, the coming colony.
Interesting pamphlet re gold finds Western
Australia; post free. 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
c
OOGEE
PALACE AQUARIUM.
The Popular Pleasure Resort.
Visited Daily by Large and Fashionable Audiences.
The Wonderful Performing Seals
AND
KW Finest Collection or Fish In Sydney.
Saturday Next—Great Holiday Programme
including the Famous
FAUST (12 in iYuiulm u) family
AND
Herr Von der MAYDEN,
The Great Cornetist.
Sunday Next—Great Special Programme !
Artistes of Recognised Position.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. A T o Extra Charge
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
Sundry Shows.
Sculling Notes.
Theatre Royal. —“ Miss Esmeralda ” p. 18.
Her Majesty’s.— “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin” ... ~
Alhambra.— Minstrelsy
Criterion. —“ Arabian Nights ” „
Royal Standard. —“ Mystery of a Han-
som Cab ” „
It is a matter for conjecture to what ex-
tent the angry passions of Fergus Hume would
rise if he saw the version of his “ Mystery of a
Hansom Cab ” which is now being played at Sydney
Royal Standard. On the stage Fergus’s crime de-
generates into a commonplace villainy perpetrated
in a public vehicle. The adapter has been so
careful to ruin the mystery by showing in the first
act exactly how it all happened that it is hard to
avoid thinking that the two detectives are an ass
when they commence an elaborate search for a
criminal whom the audience could find in
three seconds by scrambling over the foot-
lights, and when once the secret is given
away the assembled citizens don’t really care
whether the chief drunk of the drama was
murdered in a cab or whether he died of lingering
consumption in a dray. Having taken such a
liberty with Mr. Hume’s plot at the start, the
talented adapter might as well have gone the full
length of his tether, and if he had shown how
Oliver Whyte was paralysed on a fence at mid-
night and then set the two detectives to find out
who the fence belonged to, or if he had made him die
through swallowing a bobtle of carbolic acid on a
Sunday and then offered a gigantic reward for the
discovery of the cork, he would have attached a
certain amount of thrill bo the drama which at
present is badly wanting. Possibly the prevailing
scarcity of excitement might have been alleviated
if arrangements could be made to discharge the
hero on the stage without a stain on his
character, bub instead he is merely seen in a
whitewashed cell in one act, while in the next
we gather from casual conversation, and from see-
ing him standing round, that he wasn’t hanged.
Even Shakespeare couldn’t stand such treatment
as this, and the adapter who showed lago schem-
ing in a cab at the opening of the tragedy, and
then sent on a lady to remark in an off-hand way
that Desdemona’s funeral took place that day at
four, would be hailed with dead hens and other
zoological ruins. Still, there are one or two
characters in the ‘ ‘ Cab ” which may save it from
falling just yet. Mr. H. C. Sidney, an actor of a
high order, who deserves much better recog-
nition than he has hitherto received in Australia,
plays Brian Fitzgerald for all that noble Irishman
is worth, and the vigour and ability with which
he tows him through the unsatisfactory catalogue
of his woes and forces him to look manly and
generous where the dramatist has left him in the
lurch should make the alleged man of letters go
home and repent. Miss Ethel Grey, who re-
appears on the stage after a long absence and
takes the sawed-off character of Rosanna
Moore, is an old favourite who will always receive
a warm welcome from Australian audiences, but
her beauty and talent are thrown away through a
perverted circumstance which forces her to die in
the first act, and her'youthful fire and brilliance
are smothered by the dead weight of literary
cussedness. Miss Alice Norton, who is capable
of better things, is cast for a commonplace
heroine, and Misses M. A. Melville and Addie
Thynne, Mr. Frank Gerald, and Mr. Harry
Power, help to make up a really good company
which has been crushed flat by the Juggernaut of
the “ Hansom Cab.” The next production will be
an adaptation of Mies Braddon’s novtl, “Henry
Dunbar,” a piece in which Mr. Sidney played the
leading part at the Standard some two years ago,
when his style of beauty evoked much applause.
## # *
At Sydney Criteiion, the “Arabian
Nights ” are slowly fading away, and on Satur-
day Mr. Sb. Maur removes his cheerful presence
to make way for Mr. George Leitch and a new
drama called “A Touch of the Sun.” A special
company, comprising, among other elements of
brilliance, Misses Maggie Knight, Myra Kemble,
Kate Bishop, Nelly Morbyne, Messrs. Cathcart,
Owen Harris, Montgomery, and A. R. Lawrence,
has been organised for the occasion, and, as the
hob weather is coming on the piece should awaken
responsive emotions in the heart of a city
which will soon want badly to fib on
the housetop at midnight with nobbing
on. The Hicks-Sawyer Minstrels still hold the
fort at the Opera House, the t reacherous influence
of Australian cheap drinks having, so far, im-
printed no wrinkle on their azure souls. “ Uncle
Tom ” has at last got into good working order at
Her Majesty’s, and the moral wheels of the
machinery of bis sable intelligence go round with-
out the friction which marked their earlier efforts.
He looks rather hot, though, and seems to per-
spire under his paint a good deal. It is hard to
be a Christian darkey on the banks of the Red
River in summer without wilting, and if things
could be arranged so that he could escape to
Canada a little earlier in the evening it might
help him to cool down.
## # *
“ Miss Esmeralda ” lias two weeks more to
run at Sydney Royal, and at the end of that time
the Bohemian maid of long ago will tearfully
carry her carpet-bag on board the steamer and
commit her soul to the deep waters. Mr. Goodman
is at present baking a well-earned holiday, and his
place is filled by Mr. B. N. Jones, a gentleman
whose ability and experience as a theatrical man-
ager are too large and varied for the narrow
resources of ordinary print.
#* * #
Mr. E. W. Royce’s farewell benefit even-
tuates at Sydney Criterion on Thursday after-
noon (September 20), and considering the immense
popularity of the perennial Blueskin, and the
fact that the programme includes all the best
available artists, it is expected that quite a num-
ber of citizens will be trodden to death in the
crush. Six ambulances will be in attendance,
and carriages will meet all trains to convey the
affiieted friends of the victims to the scene of
horror. Every facility will be affoided for the
identification of the mangled remains, and any
gentleman who has no relatives to identify him is
requested to register the strawberry mark on his
arm before entering. The two shilling part of
the house is requested to meet its fate quietly and
not to disturb the five-shilling section any more
than it can help.
## # #
“On ’Change,” an impossible comedy of
German descent, was put up at Melbourne Bijou
last Saturday night, in the presence of all the best
people who sat and stood around and looked nice
as usual. It contains two thin plots which don’t
appear to intermingle, several characters which
touch no chord in the human heart of anybody,
and a dozen incidents bearing on nothing at all at
the moment, neither leaving any trace behind to
indicate that they ever happened. This inverte-
brate piece of pleasantry is called “ On ’Change”
because a peculiarly imbecile Professor, who hasn’t
any money, dabbles in stocks he knows nothing
about and loses about half-a-million which was
never invested by his agent, and therefore is not
lost, instead of making half-a-million, as he
would have done if he hadn’t been a palpable
idiot, and his agent had followed the instructions
he (the Professor) ought to have given. The Pro-
fessor s bogus speculations on paper are the out-
come of a discussion with his banker cousin touch-
ing their respective orders of intellect. The
banker puts imaginary untold gold at the disposal
of his cousin, whose imaginary losses are supposed
to point a moral, which crumbles to ashes under
close inspection. Mr. Brough’s best efforts fail to
make the Professor other than an is dated item in
a secondary plot. Mr. G. W. Anson, as the
banker, is humorously connected with an indepen-
dent narrative, which includes a masher in
cwimson socks, a delicious girl, her dashing
feller, and sundry friends and relatives. Messrs.
Boucicault and Titheradge lift their interpreta-
tions of the leading young men parts into the
superlative degree, and Miss Lilian Gilmour, in
the character of a delicious girl, fills that station
in life to which she was born. To continually
sing the praises of one so seraphic is a kind of reli-
gious duty which must be attended to, as it were.
These Melbourne praises are of stern necessity
sung on Sunday mornings—but to resume. Mr.
Cecil Ward and other eminent individuals assist
the distinguished performers afore-mentioned in
making a moderate success out of what might be a
dismal failure under less enlightened circum-
stances.
## # #
“Pygmalion and Galatea,” at the Prin-
cess’s, received favourable notice from a crowd of
gentle Essie’s constant admirers. Her statuesque
majesty diverted attention from the misdirected
efforts of Mrs. Holloway as the wife of Chrysos
(a leery old patron of art with whom the talented
Elton failed to identify himself), and shed a sub-
dued lustre over the divine William H. There
THE LATE RICHARD ANTHONY PROCTOR,
ASTRONOMER.
was also an indefinable sense of something about
the C,>nisca of Miss Constance Deorwyn, and
when she cursed until all was black the house was
visibly affected. “ Pygmalion and Galatea ” will
run as long as it can.
** # *
Of other Melbourne shows none flourishes
like the composite attraction with no particular
name, which continues to fill the Alexandra and
knock all the stuffing out of prophecy based on
former observations. Hiscocks and Friedmann
changed their programme, and hung 40 lovely
women from the flies on Saturday, when bard
cash was positively turned away from the scene of
splendour. The Spanish Students are still hold-
ing out at the Opera House, and Verdi has gone
to their relief, but when the dancers’ skirts were
lengthened in the interests of fresh young inno-
cence this entertainment was robbed of its only
hope. “ Barnes of New York ” quits the Royal
this week to be followed by five nights of “ The
Old Corporal ” and Signora Majeroni’s benefit as
Marie Stuart. The Coghill Brothers and John
Gourlay broke oub into a three-act disturbance at
St. George’s Hall on Saturday. It labours under
the disadvantage of being ealled “ Whose are
They ?” and appears to be connected with wearing
apparel. About 30 comic songs are incidental to
the comedy.
## * *
Harry Taylor died in Melbourne the other
day. There was a time when Taylor seemed
likely to make a big mark as a low comedian, but
he was opposed to temperance principles, and
gradually fell to pieces. Four years ago the Tri-
umvirate imported him from the Surrey Theatre,
to play in the Royal pantomime, “ Cinderella.”
His last appearances were with a “common-
wealth ” company at the Alexandra. Poor
Harry’s father used to run a cafe in Regent-
street, where a pleasing sister presided at the bar.
Send for plan of Eveleigh Estate, Perth, W,A.
Intercolonial Investment Co., Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
The Miners’ Friends.
The New South Wales Miners’ Association has
only £4OOO in hand : 12s, per man. Those who
are for Labour in its struggle against the tyranny
of Capital should show it now. The Sydney
press has not taken that independent stand on
the side of Labour that its working-class con-
stituency thought it should. A number of papers
conducted, in the interests of Capital, by syndi-
cates and the agents of syndicates, more or less
in the swim, are uncompromising foes of the
miners; but there are journals whose bread is
made by their circulation, and these support
Capital one day and Labour the day after. Now
is the time to bring these diplomatic twisters
to the test. Are they prepared to receive contri-
butions to fupport the mine-workers in their
struggle against the mine-owners ? By this shall
the miners know who are for them and who
against. The Bulletin challenges these quondam
friends of the workman, who make no inconsider-
able share of their profits by vaguely pretending
to champion the cause of Labour, without irre-
vocably committing themselves, to open their
columns to a subscription-list. Pending such
action, we ask all those who feel that the cause of
the miners is the cause of Right to forward contri-
butions to The Bulletin for the maintenance of
the Newcastle miners during the strike. Any such
contributions will be acknowledged in this paper
from week to week.
As we predicted in these cjlumns a while
back, the Clarence River oarsman, Harry Searle,
easily defeated Neilson on Friday last. The
winner showed good form and won all the way.
He is now matched against Hanlan, but the people
at his back will make a big mistake unless they
give him a long spell before he tries the Canadian,
or any of the cracks. Searle is only a youth of
22, and although a man can scull perhaps faster at
that age than any other, still he will not stand
hard training like an older man, and Searle has
had a good long period of training now. He was
out on Sunday in his boat and is not looking any
too vigorous. His style of sculling is simply
beautiful, and the writer’s attention was first
attracted to him by seeing him go out from his
shed one Sunday morning and do a spurt of about
400 yards as fast as ever he could put the sculls
into the water, simply dashing them in and out,
making the boat fly, and all through the spurt he
never rolled his boat in the slightest, nor jerked
the sculls home as is usual when a man tries to
row very fast. The form shown then was
good enough to bet a pile on, combined as
it was with his great strength and free-
dom of action. He is quite big enough, row-
ing at list. fflb., or thereabouts. People make a
great mistake in always looking for size in a
sculler, and the theory (true enough, no doubt)
that a good big man will always beat a good little
man is carried to absurd lengths. Because a man
happens to stand 6ft. 2in. and weighs 13st. he is
not necessarily a strong man. Nearly all depends
on how a man is put together, and a short, close-
built, nuggetty man is often actually the bigger-
limbed of the two, although he may not weigh
nearly so much—what there is of him is good,
and he carries no lumber. Searle is such a man,
and he is the makings of a champion if not
worked too much at first. Talking of champions,
what crowds of champions and aspirants for
championship honours the writer has seen on the
Parramatta River from the times of Green and
Hickey, when the steamers used all to follow the
race, crowding down together, scarcely able to see
one another through the dense smoke, jostling,
whistling, generally passing the losing man as
soon as he fell behind at all, running over row-
ing-boats, and fouling the old punt which
used to cross at Bedlam Ferry. A
race in the old days was a “ fair bank
holiday and no error.” After the old-
time champions came that tower of strength,
Michael Rush, a man of unsullied reputation and
possessed (in the writer’s judgment) of finer
physique than that of any other sculler ever seen
on the Parramatta. He was a magnificent man,
and no mistake. Then he went down before the
superior science of the long-armed, flat-chested
quarry man, Ned Trickett. All the Irishmen
wore green ribbons, and when Rush was beaten
they drowned their sorrows in drink, and Glades-
ville was a second Donnybrook that night. Then
came the brawny Shark Islander, Elias Laycock,
who used to eat a dozen custards as a training
lunch up at Mrs Drury’s hospitable quarters. He
was a grand sample of a man, but after his trip to
Ragland, where he acquitted himself well, he
seemed to go all to scraps, and lost half his
muscle. In one of his races with Rush the latter
led right up to One Man Wharf and the pigeons
were sent off announcing his victory, but Laycock
made a final spurt quite close to home and the
judge gave him the race. The people on the
shores of the river, seeing Rush go by with a
strong lead, assumed that he must win and paid
over their bets, and Rush’s supporters im-
mediately drank the money ; and when
the Laycock contingent found out that
their man had won, and came to get the money
back, the “ bhoys for Michael Rush ” were just
nice and fit to give it to them. They said the
judge had been squared, they had spent the
money, they wouldn’t pay it if they had it, and
they’d knock daylight through any man who Baid
Rush wasn’t the finest sculler in the world.
Things were very lively that night. After Trickett
and Laycock went to England and lost the cham
pionship to Hanlan, there was a period of depres-
sion, but some enthusiasts got hold of a black
smith from Dapto, named Beach, who had won a
great name in his own district, and they took the
late Dr. Portescue down to have a look at him.
The doctor was a keen judge of physique, and
after examining the new candidate (who, by the
way, was so awkward that he could hardly sit his
boat) pronounced him a phenomenon in the way
of strength and power of endurance. Beach rowed
several races, and did well. He once chased Rey-
nolds, a very finished sculler, down the course in
light skiffs, and stuck to him so doggedly that
Reynolds fell out of his boat exhausted. “If I’d
only had time to get my breath, I’d have beat
him,” said Reynolds ; “ but he kept me going all
the time, and didn’t seem to tire at all.” Then
the Punch trophy was rowed for to see who should
represent us against Hanlan when he came out
here, and the old hero, Michael Rush, won a great
race, being hotly pressed by Beach, who was
villainously fitted up in a boat where he
was not at all comfortable. Trickett and
Laycock also rowed, but they did not appear
to have got themselves very fit. Then Beach and
Trickett became by common consent the two men
to whom the “honour of the colony” would have
to be entrusted, and they rowed several severe
races on the championship course, at regattas,
and so on, but all the time Beach, a fresh man,
was coming on and improving, whilst Trickett
was going off, and so it came about that Beach
was found to be the best man we had to put
against the Canadian. Very few people thought
he had any chance, and indeed his prospects did
not appear very rcsy : he had only beaten Lay-
cock and Trickett when they were stale and unfit,
while Hanlan had defeated the same men with
ridiculous ease while they were at their best.
Then Hanlan arrived, and the Beach party deter-
mined to “have a go at him.” Dr. Portescue
stood out for Beach all along. “He must win, I
tell you,” he used to say ; “he is a phenomenon.
This Hanlan is a shrimp alongside hiiri. Hanlan
might lead him at the mile, but no man in the
world will lead him at three miles. He’s a splendid
sculler and his endurance will pull him through.”
Then came the “Tomki” race, which Beach wod,
owing, as Hanlan said, to the steamer Tomki
forcing Hanlan to go out of his course. Another
match was made, and Beach won again. Since
then we have held the championship and seem
likely to hold it. Given Searle fit and well, it will
need something extra good to take his number
down.
A refractory ore la an ore that won’t pay
a dividend.
“Sanitation or Separation” is the cry
from Broken Hill.
The N.S.W. railway employees, who num-
ber 10,000, are going to give to Mr. Goodchap, the
late Commissioner for Railways, “ one of the
grandest testimonials ever given to a man in
Australia.”
Breen, charged with having attempted to
bribe Sir Henry Parkes with £lO, and now under
committal to the Sydney Quarter Sessions, will
be defended by counsel.
The Bulletin appears this week without
the customary letter from Miss Sappho Smith.
That talented lady’s manuscript went astray at
an awkward time, and the authoress is compelled
to take refuge in tears.
But for the boots in his unhallowed coffin
the executed aboriginal Spider would very likely
have had Dan. O'Connor orating over his bones at
Waver ley Cemetery. Judging by the newspaper
accounts, the odds were much in Spider’s favour
at one time. In Queensland, the other day, two
pairs of boots nearly wrecked an empire.’ In
New South Wales last week one pair of boots
conferred a monument and a “ spache ” on a
patriot and a poet. After all, there’s nothing like
leather.
On Monday, Mr. President Ashton, of the
N S.WJArt Society, gave (quite unintentionally
no doubt) a very nasty jar to Governor Caring-
ton. Mr. Ashton said he was glad to note that at
last people had come to see there was something
in life worth considering besides hcrse-racing
and such things. Here Governor Carington
snorted audibly. Then his Excellency, “in a few
well-chosen words,” declared the exhibition open.
While uttering those “few well-chosen words ” it
was noticed that he “dreamily looked through
time and space,” as though he saw “a ccck-fight
in a distant place.”


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW THB
MOS? POPUUB LIQUG&
IN THB
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
Sven for all kinds of Gents’ left off clothing.
ress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell-street, MELBOURNE,
SWEET ISOKOMI, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price 3s. 6d.,
ss. and 10s. Post Free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-street East,
MEEBOERNE.
When next yon bake try Pemell'e Show-whit* Patint
Roller Flour, and your bread will be aa white as enow.
Pepper
A nd
Salt
Veteran George Coppin asked Chief Secre-
tary Deakin to explain why 600 able-bodied young
Victorians applied for 100 odd vacancies in the
police force. Mr. Deakin said he was not aware
of any other reason than the popularity of the
service which offered permanent employment (!)
with good prospects of advancement and a uni-
form.
* * *
Mr. Bfunker, the N. S.W. Minister for
Lands, finding that the influence of a member of
Parliament was invoked in a land case which came
before him in his first week of office, said :
Toe law provided for the fullest investigation in open
court, and it was the intention and spirit of the law to
prevent influence such as he had described being brought
to bear on its administration. He trusted that would be
the last case of the character that would come under his
notice.
Another libel case will, we hear, arise out
of the Daily Telegraph’s report of the Dibb3 v.
D.T. case. The journal named alleges that when
the jury returned to court, and said they had
found a verdict, the judge’s associate enquired,
“ Who for ?”
The young man of Victoria appears to have a
burning
Wish to keep the people from disturbing of the
peace;
He doesn’t care for labour and he isn’t fond of
learning,
He merely asks the Government to take him on
a lease
For the purpose of becuffing
Little urchins “ doing nuffin,”
And promiscuously “ scruffing”—iu the manner
of perleece.
Id’s not so much the wages and the permanent
employment
(Though an easy, certain billet is desirable, of
course),
But where the youthful “ bobby ” finds perpetual
enjoyment
Is in wearing showy raiment as a member of the
force —
There’s the charm that’s so abiding,
Whether jauntily he’s striding
In his majesty, or riding through the city on a
horse.
No doubt ’tis very nice to give the little boys a
thrashing
(For we know the busy “bobby” likes to be
upon the beat)
But a uniform provides such opportunities for
mashing
The little girls—God bless ’em!—as they trip
along the street.
A “peeler,” when on duty,
Is a miracle of beauty,
And in his summer suit he looks so ravishingly
sweet.
The parlour-maid, or cookie, in particular will flop
her
Ardent young affections on the dashing Pleece-
man X,
llcr wealth of woman’s love she freely offers for a
“ copper ”
There’s nothing like a livery to paralyse the sex ;
At eventide for “cases ”
Bobby goes to quiet places,
Where his manly arm embraces half-a-dozen
little necks.
The young man of Victoria has oats, and he musi
sow ’em,
He doesn’t care for learning and he isn’t fond of
work;
So that harem-scarem fellow (as you gather from
this poem)
Takes kindly to a billet that is suited to a Turk—
The sort of situation
Where his hardest occupation
Is to practise fascination in a jumper and a
smirk.
The Melbourne Charity Organisation So-
ciety have empowered their secretary to refuse to
see any person who comes to the office without a
ticket or letter from a member—
A beggar begs in whining tone
The C.O.S. to find a bone,
But O ! the beggar cannot pick it
Without a letter or a ticket.
With pallid lips and glassy eyes
That beggar tumbles down and dies';
The rules and corpse—what could be better ? —
Are carried out unto the letter.
MISSED HIS VOCATION.
(A “BULLETIN” TOPICAL SONG.)
If you see M.’sL.A. with no axes to grind,
All bent on their country’s salvation,
Don’t faint on the spot, but view them with scorn,
And think how they’ve missed their vocation.
If you enter a pub. when you’re shabbily dressed,
And the barmaid breaks off her flirtation
With the party she spoons to serve you at once,
You’ll reckon she’s missed her vocation.
When a “ lady’s ” dolled up and doing the block,
I’ll allow she’s a startling creation
With her powder and paint; yet her feelings
you’ll shock
If by chance you mistake her vocation.
When you’re out on the spree, and your legs
tangle up,
Your ideas get strange transformation,
When the “trap” can’t be squared, and you'll
think to yourself
The bobby has missed his vocation.
When you see a young “gent.” who always be-
haves
As a larrikin-snob combination —
When he goes to the play, and you’ll not be far
out
If you think that he’s missed his vocation.
When the “bookies” the cronk ’un have scented
afar.
And their plans get a swift consummation,
Then doubtless you’ll say, as they bury the “stiff,”
“ Undertaking ” should be their vocation.
When you’re reading these lines don’t you spite-
fully wish
That I’m doomed to eternal damnation,
But let me down softly, and say, with a “ pish J”
“Asa poet he’s lost his vocation.”
NIMROO.
For what do men go forth and meet the people,
And stand through long hours braying night by
night,
And clutch thick, clammy fists with hungry
greeting,
And slap rude dirty backs with mad delight,
And simulate at sight of ev’ry steeple
A faith to suit the parties whom they’re
meeeting ?
For what do men do these things if, when over,
Their names are worthless in official eyes ?
Perhaps a voter’s son may want a billet,
Perhaps a squatter wants his boundaries
Enlarged or narrowed, or the gentle drover
May want a tank dug, or the rain to fill it.
Does Brunker mean that when he meets such
cases
He’ll not give ear unto a member’s word ?
Well, one of two things soon will be detected—
There’ll not be such a rush to join the herd
Of members, or the scorn of angry faces
Will scare him from the post he has elected.
“WORSER.”
When our “nobles” with morality aforetime did
dispense,
We were told it didn’t matter, for their “cult-
chaw ” was intense;
“HOLDING A CANDLE,” &c.
Premier M'Ilwraith, while introducing an otherwise drastic Protective tariff,
proposes to let in printing-paper free—(as a sop to the daily press.)
But now the end must surely come, this fact we
deem precursor,
While their deeds remain still wicked, that their
grammar’s yearly “ worser.”
# • *
DAN’S DENIEHY.
His eyes were bright, and
His heart upright, and
In youth’s red light and
Its heat he willed,
But his prose-song splendid,
With high thoughts blended,
Death curtly ended
And the singer stilled.
Such is his story
Of gloom and glory,
And now no more he
Will strike our ears
With words that gladden,
Or words that madden,
Or words that sadden
The heart to tears.
While fathers sigh on,
And daughters cry on,
And keep an eye on
The silent man,
0 each fond mother
And growing brother
Should keep the other
On howling Dan !
The Brickbat.
(Slung by TITUS SALT.)
A degrading trick which was eminently
suited to make the Christian Church pant was
executed one dark and slippery day last month at
Timaru (N.Z ). A pensive, non-combatant water-
drinker was seated in a cafe looking out at the
weather. He had lunched in a meek and con-
trite spirit on a bath bun and a saddle-coloured
beverage which ought to have been struck dead
for calling itself coffee, and he was waiting for
the rain to go off before he took his stork-like way
down the street. But the man who waits for the
rain to cease has a large order on hand at Timaru,
and as the afternoon wore on, and the beneficent
shower still slushed down, and wet hens ran for
shelter, and dogs put into the nearest friendly
port, the teetotal gentleman grew heavy in his
large, sloping head, and his neck collapsed, and at
last he dropped on the table and went to sleep.
Then two low-minded sinners softly put a bottle in
front of him, with a quantity of gin at the bottom
of it, and beside the bottle they placed a glass,
and they spilt the evil spirit over the table and
over the dreaming brother to make a horrid
smell, and having done these things they called in
two passing teetotallers and pointed out how the
prop of the cause had fallen away. These shocked
gentlemen called in several more teetotallers, and
when eight saints were assembled together they
wakened their colleague and told him that he had
touched the unclean thing. He said he hadn’t,
and they urged him not to add lying to his
other Bins. Then he bounced his fist on the
table and said they had been drinking, and
one of the party took the opportunity to offer
up a short petition for this lost, drunken,
violent, beastly, depraved, lying sinner, and im-
plored that he might not be cut off in the cussed-
ness of his hypocrisy, like Sodomias and Gophira,
but that he might be chastened after the manner
of Ahimelech and dedidiah, and—but here the in-
furiated b i ikslider let drive at the petitioner with
the bottle, and the ruins of him fell over back-
wards. The rest of the congregation implored
him to confess his sin and weep and meditate, but
the table flew at them and swept their legs from
under them, and the shocking example leaped on
top of the wreckage and, dancing up and down in
fury, he tore off his coat, and declared that he was
ready to wipe up the solar system with the whole
water-drinking persuasion, and bang them against
the sharp corners of the stars. Then he clutched
one small brother and dashed him down on top of
a quantity of tarts, and the proceedings closed
amid the screams and hysterics of the girl in
charge. The water-drinkers held a meeting and
expelled the sinner by a unanimous vote, and the
object of their solicitude settled the bill for the
damage with his hair standing up and a dangerous
look in his eyes, and, going out sternly into the
rain, made for the nearest bar and took to drink.
This short and simple tale shows clearly that it is
advisable to deal gently with the erring, and re-
veals the great moral lesson that some men aren’t
safe when wakened up suddenly,
• • #
The ways of the Church are dark and
mysterious, and the spiritual individual lies low
and views them with the eye of faith. The carnal
person also lies low, but he does it because he is
drunk, and in his case the eye of faith is on the
swivel and the surrounding atmosphere is filled
with the odour of —cold tea. The undermining
nature of cold tea has never been properly appre-
ciated by physicians and legislators, and conse-
quently this insidious beverage is still permitted
to lie in wait at street corners and up dark
entries, and its shrill whoop, as it leaps on its un-
suspecting victim, is a thing which requires to be
twigged before it can be fully contemplated. The
latest sufferer from the crushing effects of cold
tea is a simple resident at a certain up-country
township of N.S. Wales. He is built chiefly of
bruises, bangs and tatters ; his principal amuse-
ment consists in waging terrible conflicts with
pink spiders and crocodiles and members of Par-
liament which lurk under his bed, and his voice
is the song of a cross-cut saw as it urges its way
through a bag of coke. He lives pretty nearly
anywhere and his postal address is “Public-
houses, Australia.” Near him resides a lady not
young or beautiful to look upon, and one of whose
extremities was lamed in strife with her
former proprietor, a gentleman who, several years
ago, shunted for Canaan and left her deso-
late. She also is pervaded by the odour
of cold tea, and her morals, it is said,
are not particularly correct. Perhaps it was
these very circumstances that made the hunky
boys of the neighbourhood conclude that she and
the tattered person who sleeps anywhere were
eminently fitted for each other, or perhaps they
were animated by pure devilment —it doesn’t
matter. At all events, one dark, cold evening,
when the reverend father who tends the flock
upon the flower scented slopes of that locality was
musing by his fire, he was aroused by a clatter at
the door, and went out to see what was the mat-
ter. He put his head into the gloom and faintly
descried a procession of 16. Four were support-
ing with great difficulty a human object covered
with a sickly green mould, and the rest were
enthusiastically backing up a lady who concealed
her mirth behind a pockethandkerchief that had
evidently been used to carry earth in. “ ’Scuse
us for calling so late, yer reverence,” said the per-
son who seemed to be the superintendent of the
revels, and the mouldy object echoed back :
“ Skhocsh c’g shlate “ The fact is this ’ere lady
and gentleman want to get married at once.”
“I’m the lady,” chimed m the fairy form in the
background as the priest turned his inquiring eye
upon her, and the bridegroom in his capacity as
chorus put in his response: “ Sheesh zhe la’y.”
He was going to say something more, but the
priest caught him by the collar and shook him till
that article of attire came off, and then without
uttering a single word he walked inside and
closed the door with a bang. A quarter
of an hour rolled on; the deputation strug-
fled up the street and roused the nearest
’rotestant pastor from his meditations. To
him they explained at considerable length
that they had brought along on a shutter two souls
with but a single thought, two hearts that beat as
one, and they pointed out that the circumstances
being of a peculiar and urgent nature they had
ventured to ask him if he would perform the mar-
riage ceremony at once. The reverend gentlemen
responded cheerfully that he did not object, and
the bridegroom sat up on the edge of the pavement,
and feebly re-echoed “Bj’k.” Then the two were
made one, and the caravan departed tittering
down the street. And now, the effects of the cold
tea having worn off, the husband wants badly to
know when or how or where he got married, and
in what way did the whole thing come to pass.
Sometime! he is seen to deposit a printed docu-
ment on the pavement, and then he goes down on
his knees beside it, and studies it all over with the
gravity of an aged goat contemplating a box of
nails. At other times he button-holes gentlemen
in public-houses, and laying the paper before them
asks them to view “this ’erestiffikit,” and pass an
opinion thereon ; and again he drowns his sorrow
in drink, and sings “ri-tooral tooral-lay.” Cold
tea is the rock upon which Aryan civilisation will
ultimately split usunder.
* * *
For pure and holy satisfaction, and elevated
spiritual joy, such as is seldom vouchsafed to
mortals here below, there are few things that even
begin to compare with the situation of the white
man who stands negligently by and watches
eighteen Chinamen banging each other with
shovels. This blessing was recently bestowed by a
thoughtful Providence, which orders all things for
our good, on several Australians at Port Darwin,
and when they had inspected the trouble and
damage which it brought about they raised their
vo’ces and spoke in the mental attitude of a soul-
ful person in Palestine, “ Now lettest thou thy
servant depart in peace.” A vessel was being
unloaded |in the harbour, and there was a certain
amount of ill-feeling between the crew, which was
made up of Chows from Macao, and the lumpers,
an intelligent crowd of Cantonese lepers who had
abandoned the land which the Lord gave unto
their fathers that they might grow tea upon it,
and call it blessed. Ultimately one of the
foreigners judiciously dropped a lump of coal upon
another who was down in the hold, and the latter
came up and banged him in the epigastrium with
a shovel. Another Chow hastily sailed in, and
landed the person of the second part on the
zygomaticus with a large rope, and though the
sufferer didn’t know the Latin name of the place
he was aware in Chinese that be had been hit there,
and he howled and rounded on his assailant. Then
15 more Mongols gathered themselves together,
and girded up their loins and took a hand in
the fray, and the air was filled with bits
of dismantled Asiatic, some of the fragments
being sent up so high that they didn’t come down
till some time afterwards. The gangway gave
way in the middle of the scrimmage, and the
ground was strewn with trampled pig tails and
broken implements, and the district resounded
with shattered tea-chest dialect extracted from
the writings of that great and good man, Con-
fucius. and meanwhile the European residents
stood by and screamed for both parties with that
lofty impartiality which is the noblest feature in the
Anglo-Saxon character. It was near sunset when
the conflicting elements drew off from the blood-
stained field, and as they retired they all shook
their cow-coloured fists at each other, and each
party expressed its firm hope and belief that asses
and goats might disfigure the graves of the other
party’s grandmothers. Then they said “damn”
in Chinese and went home, and the pale moon
rose in the East and looked down serenely on
the scene of the conflict.
A good Btory is told of Niemann (the
elder), a landscape-painter whose works have be-
come very valuable since his death a few years
back. Niemann lived in the London N. W. dis-
trict, and one evening a juvenile son discovered
him wandering near the family residence in a dis-
tinctly muzzy condition, the result of a dining-
out or professional reunion. Anyway, the
“ governor” was so indifferent to things in gene-
ral that he didn’t recognise his offspring, who
calmly conducted him to their home and rang the
bell. In the meantime, Niemann had expressed
his gratitude to the lad and tipped him a
sovereign, but when he found his guide follow
him into the house he protested against the in -
trusion. “ But I live here, I’m Charley,” ex-
plained the youngster. “ Are you !’* said the
wise parent, “ then give me back my sovereign.”


“ I have found Mr. W. F. Caunt’s Phosphorised Iron
Quinine Tonic superior to any others I have used. It is
an excellent nervine.—Yours, Nellie Palmer.” Prepared
only by W. F. CAUNT, The Pharmacy, Camperdown,
Obtainable from all Chemists Take no substitute.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that PemelFs Snow-whitb Patbnt Rollbb Flour ie the
beet in the market.
PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hockings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
Everybody ehould use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-whiti
Patsnt Rolubb Flour. It is the greatest suoeess of the
age.
Personal Items.
Walt Whitman is dying of paralysis.
Wood, the celebrated English jockey, is a
Jew.
There are four Smiths in the N.S.W. Par-
liament.
It has come at last! Sappho is crowned
with sausages.
Mr. Salomons, Q.C., being unwell, goes
to Colombo for a trip.
The late J. S. Farnell once refused the
“honour ” of knighthood.
Daniel Henry Daniehy wa3 only 35 when
he died at Bathurst in 1805.
Lord Colin Campbell intends seeking his
fortune at the Calcutta Bar.
The N.S W. Full Court has upset yet
another of Chief Justice Darley’s rulings.
It is reported that Governor Carington
goes to England on a brief visit next year.
The Queen, it is said, thinks of investing
a few of her superfluous millions in colonial loans.
Tasmania is greatly upset in view of the
probability of Victoria annexing the Hon. Audley
Coote.
The present holder of the Dean Paul
baronetcy is town-clerk in a small N.Z. mining
district.
It is rumoured that the third daughter of
the Prince of Wales is to marry the heir to the
Russian throne.
Lewis Lewis danced a jig on the occasion
of the celebration of his 105th birthday at Sand-
hurst (Vic.) last week.
There are rumours of much heartburning
in regard to the will of the late Hon. William
Flood, M.L.C., of Sydney.
The premises occupied by the Century
Club in Hunter-street, Sydney, were once tenanted
by Daniel Henry Deniehy.
A recent number of St. Stephen’s Review'
reproduces a cartoon by Mr. Phil May, that ap-
peared some years ago in that journal.
“Cocky” Burns, the N.S.W. Treasurer,
cordially detests tobacco. He would like to pro-
hibit its sale, but for the revenue it produces.
The present German Emperor can speak
Russian fluently. He is the first king of Prussia
who has taken the trouble to learn that language.
The Vice-Consul, at Sydney, for the
United States, Mr. Patrick Kenna, is a native of
Bathurst (N.S.W,), a bachelor, and a “divine
singer.”
Mr. Roberts, C.M.G., the N.S.W. Post-
master-General, fell out of a buggy last week, but
was not seriously injured. The hon. gentleman
fell upon his head.
Lady Bowen and her daughter were, it is
cabled, in the train which, coming to grief at
Dijon, France, the other day, killed 40 passengers.
Lady Bowen was slightly injured.
Lord Beerthirst has joined a firm of stock-
brokers in London. He was cne of our stock
‘■brokers” when Sutton gave him one for his
nob-ility and drew first blue-blood.
Dr. Perry, ex-Bishop of Melbourne, has
had an attack of paralysis, but is recovering. The
Bishop went to Melbourne 40 years ago, retired in
1876, and is now over 80 years of age.
It is reported that W. H. Smith, first
Lord of the British Treasury, is to be ennobled.
How it would be possible to further ennoble any-
one named Smith has yet to be explained.
Melbourne Licensing Court has ruled that
hotel-keepers may live with other men’s wives
without detriment to their licenses, “so long as
they do not thereby become of bad fame.”
A N.S.W. pressman once said to Sir
Henry Parkes : “ Don’t you ever get ill, Sir
Henry ?” “ No,” said the old man, “ but I get a
little tired towards the end of the session.”
The front of the Town Hall, Petersham
(Sydney) is adorned with the following legend.
“Erected 1882. Gelding Mayor.” This crushes
the hairless horse, as a lusus naturce t in one act.
The Earl of Hardwicke, who was secretary
for War 30 years ago in England, is touting for a
colonial governorship. He is a brother of Eliot
Yorke, who was out here with the Duke of Edin-
burgh.
The recently-deceased Lachlan M‘Kinnon,
part-proprietor of the Arcus, left £25 per annum
to be appropriated for publishing sermons in the
Australasian —other than the leading articles,
we presume.
A veteran Sydney actor had in his posses-
sion until recently a top turned for him by Sir
Henry Parkes. The moral of this reminiscence, if
it has one, is that the Premier commenced his
career at the top.
Mr. Justice Foster looks the happiest of
the N.S.W. Judges. His judicial face is always
suffused with a kindly smile. Judee Stephen is
the most sombre-looking of all the occupants of
the N.S.W. Bench.
Dr. Booth, of Gympie, who was married
the other day, was a State school scholar who won
a free pass to Brisbane Grammar School, and a
pass from there to Melbourne University, and one
from there to Edinburgh.
Around Deniehy’ grave at the alleged re-
interment, were Messrs. Sydney Burdekin, D.
O’Connor, John Sutherland, G. Withers, and E.
W. O’Sullivan, M’s.L.A., and Edward Greville,
and J. G. O’Connor, ex-M’s.L.A.
The undertakers, in searching for
Deniehy’s bones, disturbed those of “ Spider,” an
aboriginal hanged in ’66, at Bathurst, for rape at
Canonbar, and Michael Maher who met the same
fate for murder at Coonanbarabran.
Father Curran, who is of some repute as
a geologist, now edits the Bathurst (N.S.W.)
Record, a: print issued in the interests of the
R.C. Church. The spectacle of a geologist edit-
ing a religibus paper is a rather curious one.
It is a boast of one of the three proprietors
of the Brisbane Courier that he seldom reads
and never thinks upon anything printed in that
paper except the advertisements. Consequently
he is looked upon as a sensible and reliable man.
Hon. Tom Fergus, of N.Z., who is con-
idered the handsomest man in theN.Z. legislature,
is at Melbourne Exhibition. He was at one time
a divinity sbudent, then a railway contractor, and
now he presides over the N.Z. Mines Department.
The utterances of the Rabbi F. de Sola
Mendos, and the Rev. Robert Collyer, in the
North American Review, effectually disprove
the untruthful-on-the-face-of-ib account of Inger-
soll’s mode of life that appeared lately in a Sydney
sectarian j ournal.
Bishop Barry, who has, after all, failed to
get an English see, says he hopes (he must
surely have meant “ expects ”) to return to
Sydney the first week in November. As Mrs.
Barry is still ill, it is unlikely that the Primate
will remain long in Australia.
Onedaylast week Mr. G. R. Dibbs was very
busy. In early morning he issued a fresh writ
against Sydney D.T. claiming £lO,OOO damages ;
at mid-day he attended a funeral; in the after-
noon a wedding, and at night “Jim” Toohey’s
big meeting in Sydney Protestant Hall.
The executors of the late Henry Miller,
the Victorian millionaire (who are the sons of the
deceased), have just given a bonus of 10 per cent,
on each clerk’s year’s salary to all the clerks in
the employ of the Victorian Insurance Companies
in which their late father had a large interest.
Dr. Campbell, of Warkworth, N.Z ,
suicided la,st week, leaving behind him his own
death-certificate and a statement that he “ had
taken chloroform because he was unable to resist
the d d glass.” He asked that his head should
be sent to Professor Halford, the Melbourne
anatomisb.
Mr. Edward Flood, M.L.C., who died
the other day in Sydney, aged 84, was perhaps the
oldest well known native of N.S. Wales. He was
a Minister of the Crown for 24 days, 30 years ago,
and was one of the first aldermen of Sydney when
the city was incorporated in 1843 ; he was elected
PUTTING ON THE VICE REGAL SCREW.
NATIONALIST M‘ILWRAITH : “IT’S NO USE, SIR ANTHONY, TRYING TO
FASTEN THE LOCK ON THE PRISON DOOR. YOU’LL FIND THAT YOUR
SCREW-DRIVER WON’T DO IT.”
M ayor in ’49. He has been a patron of Sir Henry
Par * sinco the latfcer > s advenl to po ii tica i i ife .
... , ,
he beheves’tbat ffy'tXSShi^^BSS?“S’lrft
Germany for France in July> 187 q, he partook of
the sacrament in his bedroom, being at the time
j n f u n uniform,
p ear Bulletin,—Alderman John Harris
intends to again contest the position of Mayor of
g , He is a good man though not very orna-
mental. He doesn’t give balls, but he looks after
the welfare of the city, and after all Sydney wants
a man who sweeps the streets, not a man who
waxes the floor of the ball-room.—J.W.
Young Benzon, the “Jubilee Juggins,”
w ho was out in Australia before he came into his
money, less than a couple of years ago, has already
got through his pile—estimated at between
£500,000 and £OOO,OOO. At latest he had given a
bill of sale upon 17 race-horses to a London 00 per-
center. His coin has vanished at the average rate
of £lOOO per day.
Mr. District Court Judge Backhouse has
been appointed to act as a Supreme Court judge
at the ensuing Grafton and Armidale assizes,
The Bulletin hopes yet to see lawyers of J udge
a^e p S w yj soon be taken to re-adjust the Sydney
District Court judiciary, which has long been in a
notoriously unsatisfactory state.
xti. i i , -p, , ,
Mr. Thomas Holt, who died in England
ot v, er day, aged 77, was Treasurer in the first
N.S.W. Cabinet under Responsible Govern-
“ent in 185 G. Sir William Manning, who was
Attorney-General, is the only member of that
Government now living. Mr. Holt’s legislative
work is represented by his attempt to induce the
House to open each sitting by reading the 67th
Psalm. This effort was defeated by 26 votes to 9.
The late Robert Hoddle, surveyor, acted
as auctioneer at the first land-sale in Melbourne,
50 years ago, and took the Elizabeth-street front-
age between Big Bourke and Little Collins streets
as his commission. The allotments, Nos. 10 and
11 on the original plan are marked as sold for £54.
They are now valued at half a million sterling.
This is the property which has enriched Hon. R.
H. D. White, M.L.C., ofN.S.W., who is a grand-
son of Mr. Hoddle.
Now that the Dibbs v. Sydney D.T. case
is over it may be mentioned that though it was
thought by some during the earlier part of the
action that the judge seemed to lean too strongly
to the side of the plaintiff, his Honor’s summing-
up was regarded by both plaintiff and defendants
as being eminently fair. The manner in which
Judge Innes held the balance between the parties
in this matter has gained him the good opinion of
all who heard the case.
The elderly Dowager Duchess of Montrose,
who is 70 years old and has just married a hus-
band of six-and-twenty, is described as “looking
like a wise old judge in petticoats.” Apropos of
the marriage, the following appears in the Spout-
ing Times : —“We are given to understand that a
flaw has already been discovered in the marriage
settlement between Mr. Milner and the Duchess.
No provision whatever has been made for the
younger children, issue of the marriage.”
The mansion and grounds of Tara (the
residence of the late Mr. John O’Shanassy) at
Hawthorne, Melbourne, have been sold for
£115,000. The story goes and gains credit that
“Big John’s” great ambition was a baronetcy for
himself or his eldest son, and that “Tara” with
its splendid park should become the ancestral home
of the Australian O’Shanassys. The proposed
ancestral home has been disposed of, and the
popular eldest son remains healthy, bub still plain
Matt. O’Shannassy.
The rumours concerning a recently-de-
ceased Sydney millionaire’s testamentary benefi-
cence to Sir Henry Parkes have now taken de-
finite shape. It will be remembered that some
months ago Sir Henry said something in public
concerning the prospective kindness of a wealthy
friend, and it is now stated (whether truly or un-
truly will soon be known) that Sir Henry has been
left an annuity of £2OOO a year. “ There is a
tide in the affairs of men which taken at the flood
leads on to fortune.”
When old Sir John Robertson, after a hard
struggle, defeated theN.S.W. Opposition one night
on an important measure, he rode to Watson’s
Bay full of joy. A slight obstacle on the road
affrighted his usually very steady horse and the
old legislator found himself hors de combat.
Rising to the dignity of the occasion he solemnly
addressed the animal: —“ Confound your con-
demned head, you gory-eyed quadruped, you’ve
done what the Opposition could not do—upset the
head of the Ministry !”
As the R.C. authorities apparently did not
consider the body of Deniehy worthy of the rites
of the Church when he died 25 years ago, how
comes it that his alleged re-burial was conducted
with so much religious ceremony on Saturday
last ? Are the ecclesiastical authorities under the
impression that the poor little man has now ful-
filled his sentence in the next world, or that,
having been made the means of personal glory by
a considerable number of “patrons of literature,”
he has suffered sufficient penance, and has earned
the necessary coat of ecclesiastical whitewash ?
A well-known hotel-waiter the other day
said of a certain Australian statesman, who is a
hard-worker and by no means a drunkard, that
his capacity for wine was something tremendous.
‘ ‘ I have deliberately tried over and over again to
make him drunk,” he said, “ but it’s no go. I
have poured into him three large bottles of cham-
pagne at a meal, and yet after that and other
things he stood up and made the best speech of
the evening. He can eat anything you put before
him, from roast-beef to ice-cream.”
Amongst recent arrivals from Maoriland
at Sydney is a young giant named Kilkenny, who
is accredited with a remarkable and certainly
unique feat of strength. While crossing the
paternal paddocks one morning Kilkenny was
beset.by a ferocious bull. The young man being
of Irish descent had naturally some knowledge of
the bovine species, eo facing the charging animal
he seized a horn in either hand and threw him on
its back, bound it hoof and horn with his waist-
belt, and got off without a scratch.
That clever actress, Miss Agnes Thomas,
is in private life Mrs. Haxton. Her husband, H.
R. Haxton, has amongst English-speaking men
few rivals and hardly any superior as a writer of
short stories of the modern psychological school.
This is a tolerably sweeping assertion, but anyone
inclined to question it has only to read Mr. Hax-
ton’s story, “John Vissian’s Confession,” pub-
lished in The Bulletin’!-! last Christmas number
Mr. Haxton, who, we are sorry to say, is in rather
poor health, is now in San Francisco.
Charles Dickens, if his photo by Claudet
gives a correct representation of his features, was
as like “Joe” Chamberlain as one pea is like
another. Jn the photo Dickens is clean shaven, a
cock-sure smile plays about his mouth, and the
whole attitude seems to say: “Look at me!
What a fine fellow I am, ain’t I ?’’ This was in
1852. His dress would perhaps be considered
theatrical in these austere days, for he is wearing
a frcck-coat with a broad velvet collar, his waist-
coat is of some furry stuff, and his trousers are in
a huge check.
The R.C. authorities at Bathurst have
earned unenviable notoriety for refusing the
‘ ‘ rites ”to those who die outside their pale. In
addition to the case of poor Deniehy, whose faults
were of the head, not of the heart, there is the
instance of the prominent citizen who was denied
the last offices because he declined to obey a
priestly mandate that he should remove his son
from Sydney Grammar School. His family being
wealthy were able to avoid the unconsecrated
corner reserved for malefactors, and built a mauso-
leum for his remains in a half-acre of his own in
the city.
Fergus Hume, the author of the “ Mystery
of a Hansom Cab,” is a young man of only 23 or
24. His father was for a long lime superintendent
of the Government Lunatic Asylum at Dunedin
(N.Z.), and now runs a private crank-factory of
his own in the vicinity of the same impecunious
little city. He gets all the wealthy patients, and
only leaves the cheap lunatics to the Government.
In his early days Fergus was an unobtrusive young
man in a lawyer’s office, and the unobtrusive young
men who still remain in lawyers’ offices have never
quite managed to realise the full measure of their
old companion’s greatness.
Rider Haggard’o new novel “Mr. Meeson’s
Will,” appears to be a savage attack on Cassell
and Co., who made enormous profits out of
his first work, “King Solomon's Mines,” and
did not, it is alleged, treat the then un-
known author very generously. Meeson is a
brute, who has amassed £2,000,000 in the publish-
ing business by grinding down young promising
authors. The illustrations of the Graphic artist
are said to resemble Mr. Galpin, of Cassell’s firm,
and a libel action is spoken of. The story is
powerfully told and full of incident, but its mer-
ciless vindictiveness mars it somewhat.
The N.Y. Herald, after consulting the
most eminent lawyers, says emphatically that
though, in England, Mrs. Hammersley may be
Duchess of Marlborough, she is, in New York,
only Widow Hammersley. The law of that State
forbids the marriage of a person who has been
anywhere divorced for adultery, so long as the
former partner lives ; and his Grace, on returning
to America in the autumn, may be prosecuted for
bigamy. At least, so says the N.Y. Herald;
and it adds that if, instead of going through the
two separate ceremonies in New York, they had
merely had one in New Jersey, all would have been
right. There is no doubt that this is why the pair
got re-married in London.
Daniel Henry Deniehy, while employed on
the staff of the Sydney Empire, was stricken down
with a severe illness. Deniehy’s disposition made
him a restless patient, and he insisted on being
employed. During a fit of delirium he insisted
upon writing a leading article for the Empire.
His nurse would not bring him pen, ink and
paper till the raving journalist threatened to do
damage. To pacify him the nurse gave him a
white silk pocket-handkerchief and pen and ink.
Deniehy was mollified and immediately began to
write rapidly, reciting his thoughts as he wrote.
When his task was over he read it aloud, then
requested that it should be sent to the editor. On
his recovery he was shown his article; it consisted
of several blotches, forming one word distinctly—
his own name—“Deniehy.”
The Victorian Licensed Victuallers’
Gazette appears to glory in the alleged fact that
Von Moltke and Bismarck are great eaters and
heavy drinkers. Our contemporary absolutely
revels in the circumstance that Bismarck can (like
the average bar-boozer) never eat any breakfast,
and that he “has often eaten 11 hard-boiled egg tin
a single course.” As a matter of fact, Von Moltke
is by no means a phenomenal drinker, and he
is far from being a glutton as the word would
be understood by a shanty-keeper. As a conse-
quence, he is sound and healthy at the age of
90, while Bismarck, whose brutal face and heavy
jowl indicate the nature of their owner, is a
blubbery, wheezing wreck —a mere mass of
stomachic chaos —at three score and ten. Com-
pared with Gladstone, who not long ago told the
author of “Study and Stimulants” that he
“ rarely took anything but a glass or two of claret
at dinner,” Bismarck, physically, cuts a sorry
figure. The L. V. Gazette likewise draws atten-
tion to the fact that Mr. Lewis Lewis, of Sand-
hurst, who is sound and well at the age of 105,
enjoys a cigar greatly and likes wine. But Mr.
Lewis Lewis is a Jew, and where will you find a
Jewish drunkard? While the typical constituent
of the Li V. Gazette has been shoring himself up
in the morning with whisky-and-soda, Mr. Lewis
Lewis has been anointing his interior with fried
fish for these last 100 years, which makes a lot of
difference.


The Pictures of a Past Year.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA : “CALL THAT A PORTRAIT, DO YOU, MR. DALLEY?”
PIG TOR DALLEY: “IT CERTAINLY WAS A VERY GOOD LIKENESS AT THE TIME, THOUGH I MUST ADMIT YOU HAVE GROWN AND
AMAZINGLY SINCE THEN.”


Zhe l\ev /A c fhcu’r-r-rson feels’ dry, beloved
be nether en (metpauses torefresty the tabernacle
' of 'ttye flestytpilty a lemonade
' He Cj I oes )vajto
ca.r/{a.lf)as3ton
o n seemy \mg Jack )
departing witty fji'’ /forje
JsQ(j Km] fack]finds budjere& bitjfeller botLLe
f(e dr tub
‘ Baal hnn-t V c f,c -badger ce -prW Hi y filler -H- n \
He totters on fs if rone
(Sind anotljer King falls
He still clotdjes tljegaud of empire
Jl cfid of Erin rises iq If East
Jhar-r-r&n never
sa rv bottle before in Hf
Ife gracesJUdsef Efriumpf
'Sill me freer s, ye'&frn
fat je canna <jet on
wioot the ijelp o’
the Sperrut \


Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patented Arti
fical Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing cures have been effected. Send for 132’
paged illustrated book containing “ Essay on Deafness,’
llustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
from Dootors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
oured by these Drums, and who recommend them.—Dr.
NICHOLSON, 86 William Strbbt, Melbourne.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs beoause
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Pbrfumbry Co.’s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition. All Melbourne
la on this Soent.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1863.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the followin
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever m
fSiCtUIGd
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex-
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS'! ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W. H. PALING ft GO-, Ltd.
366 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.O.
Society
The Exhibition Commissioners were in-
duced to pay freight and insurance on a “loan”
collection of pictures—represented as aged portraits
of Australian pioneers—which a wily Briton, who
probably keeps a pawnshop, is now offering to this
country in a job lot for £7500. As there are more
than two dozen canvases, and each is supposed to
have been kindly “loaned” by a different man,
Toss only knows why they all with one accord
decided to sell their treasures, or how the £7500
would be apportioned out if the wily Briton dis-
posed of his consignment at the price. Taking
one consideration with another we are afraid
Australia doesn’t require this collection of early
explorers, not bub what they would be cheap at
30s. each to anybody who wants to buy a loDg line
of ancestors. There is, for example, a blear-
eyed old woman labelled “Sister Mercy,”supposed
to have come out as a kind of wandering nun with
Governor Phillip’s first batch of convicts. “ Sister
Mercy ” might do very nicely for the great, great
aunt of a squatter, if he gave her another coat of
varnish. So would Mrs. Captain Cook, except
that she is showing too much of her superabundant
Charms, and might cause scandal about the ances-
tors of het purchaser. The gallant dapbain him-
Self was evidently painted from life at a recent
period and put up the chimney to “mellow,”
while a thin-nosed lady of Charles ll.’s time
sat to the artist in a nineteenth-century night-
cap. She won’t wash a little bit, not in her his-
torical capacity. But, enough! The Commis-
sioners were had for about £(5O expenses in
connection with this batch of what look suspiciously
like unredeemed pledges, so the best thing they
can do is to stick to them until the money is re-
funded. The original owner will let his explorers
slide on those terms.
* # *
From Nellie Barren tears are pumped
(We’re told by those who’ve seen her)
On learning how her jokes were jumped
By little Miss Robina.
And Leslie thinks it rather rough
(Though nightly they encore him)
To have to drop a “ gag ” that Brough
Imported here before him.
The State teachers of Victoria are moving
for authority to whale unruly girls, and the ques-
tion arises at this stage of the proceedings— -Is
there an Australian miss who will suffer corporal
punishment in peace while there is an inkbottle to
shy anywhere within ten miles ? We don’t think
so. At present, the Victorian Education officials
do occasionally thrash a young lady when things
get absolutely desperate, but io is a form of exer-
cise at which the girl of this continent generally
gets square in the end. In one case, however, of
which we have heard, it remains an open question
to this day whether the pedagogue or the pupil
came off best. Some three years ago a Victorian
teacher bestowed his heart and his cane and his
salary on the biggest and prettiest girl in the
school, and as the marriage was kept dark, he en-
joyed for a little while the novel sensation of
teaching—and bossing—his own wife. The scheme
worked well for exactly a week, and then the lady
got tired of her anomalous position, and demanded
that the dignity of her new position should be re-
cognised. The young husband declined to do any-
thing rash until he had made matters right with
her parents, and his impatient bride then endea-
voured to hasten things by breaking out into open
insurrection. She solemnly tore up her books and
threw the tatters at his feet, stated, with the firm-
ness of a stone pavement, that she would learn no
more lessons and obey no more orders, and asked
him with a saucy laugh, while the petrified school
preserved a flabbergasted silence, what he meant to
do about it. There was an awful pause, in the course
of which the teacher saw that he must crush
this rising or lose his authority for ever, and then
he grappled with the girl and the situation. He
caned the astonished bride on both hands, and as
she still maintained her attitude of defiance he
caned her also about the shoulders and made her
stand on a form for two hours. When these pro-
ceedings were over, the bride, finding a favourable
opening, landed him on the head with some more
books and struck for home. Ultimately affairs were
smoothed over by the united efforts of 18 friends
and 127 relatives, and it is supposed that they lived
happily ever afterwards, though this latter point
has never been cleared up satisfactorily.
• •
After seven weeks of rigid adherence to
classical music, the Melbourne Exhibition orchest-
ral committee have laid on a vulgar brass band,
which will play popular air 3 every evening in the
annexes, while the expensive Mr. Cowen is shak-
ing a stick at sixty neglected performers in the
concert-hall. Regarding this deplorable falling
away from “ culchaw ” in conjunction with the
awful bust-up of the “fashionable and select”
halfa-crown day, we fear that Australia is going
to the deuce, and its people are but lost sheep.
The disgust of Cowen is too, too deep for words.
O * *
A young girl possessing a wooden leg has
in a N.S.W. Courb successfully sued a young man,
the father of her child, for aliment. He ought to
marry her—if the coal-strike continues her timber
toe will be invaluable as an asset.
* * *
An American paper states that Mayor
Hewitt of New York —the official who joined the
Duke of Marlborough in the bonds of holy matri-
mony—rather staggered that high-born nobleman
by the republican simplicity of his walk and conver-
sation during the ceremony. When he had finished
the process and the lady was duly elevated to the
British peerage he proceeded to kiss the bride,
and when Marlborough saw this ordinary Ameri-
can person browsing on the open countenance of
his duchess he fell back several feet and said
“Aw ! Aw!” in a feeble tone of voice. The
British aristocracy is a tender plant, and exciting
news should be broken gently to it in order to
alleviate the shock. The Mayor is further said to
have hugged the lady while he was kissing her, and
as the owner of the property didn’t exactly know
Whether the American Constitution authorised
municipal officials to squeeze peeresses who
happened to come within their reach, he didn’t
say anything. Prom the aspect of his face, how-
ever, it was believed that he was in the act of com-
posing and revising a crushing observation of some
description, but if this theory was correct he didn’t
get it ready in time and was compelled to leave
with it still unuttered. Possibly he got it com-
pleted at some later date and sent it along on a
post card.
* • •
Miss Gillam Holden is lecturing on “ How
to nurse typhoid fever.” More than half of the
Sydney suburban municipal councillors complain
that Miss Holden is poaching on their special
preserves.
■
The mouths of some women must water
on hearing of the ease with which divorces are
obtained in America. A case was lately decided
in that country, where the lady sued for a divorce
on the ground of her husband’s want of affection.
Upon returning from a visit to her mother, whom,
it appears, her spouse did not admire, she asked,
after embracing him, “ Are you not glad to have
me back again ? ” “ H’m ! ” he thoughtfully
replied, “I’m not sure; let me think over it. ”
Another offence was that he insisted on such
arrangements at table that bis affectionate wife
could not sit by him, as she wished to do, and
THE INEVITABLE NAME.
SMITH: “SAY, OLD FELLOW, THERE’S GORGEOUS SCENERY IN THE
NATIONAL PARK ALL THE WAY FROM LOFTUS TO—TO—
SMYTH: “CARINGTON, I SUPPOSE,”
nurse his hand. There cleariy was incompatibility
of temper in this menage, and the judge had no
option but to grant the lady’s suit. There is one
point in the case which will puzzle cynics : The
wife sought to sever the bond, though she knew
that her husband wished to marry another woman.
Pious person (to individual clutching lamp-
post) : “ Ob, my good man, it makes my heart
bleed to see you in this state.” Individual (letting
go lamp-post with sudden ferocity): “Now, looky
’ere, guv ner, if you don’t clear out of this in about
half-a-minute it’ll make yer nose bleed too.”
* *
If there is one thing which, more than
another, moves us to soulfulness and makes us feel
intense, it is the virtue of Christian liberality
when judiciously displayed and not carried to ex-
cess. At Auckland, recently, it was resolved by
certain Sunday-school authorities to give the
children a free treat, and they were all invited to
turn up one evening and let their animal spirits
fly. Then a lecturer was let loose upon them,
and for an hour or thereabouts he dealt
exhaustively with the inner consciousness
of St. Peter, and when he was finished the boys
of the congregation received half a banana apiece,
and the girls were lavishly regaled with a quarter
of an orange per head. One small boy shrieked
out that what they wanted was less bloomin’
caterkizem an’ more vittle3, and the proceedings
closed with groans all round. As already hinted
above, the spirit of judicious Christian liberality
moves as to tears.
• • •
Australian Governors are being used as
advertising mediums, so it is said. Probably as
a guarantee, Sir Robert Hamilton will figure with
the cheap articles.
• • •
In a recent Scotch divorce case, it app 3ared
that the plaintiff agreed to marry the defendant
if he gave up his cigar. He assented, but became
a backslider, whereupon she threw him over and
sued him, laying damages at £5OO. Of course she
lostj the case, for the defendant was willing to
marry her, and his only offence was a breach of
promise not to smoke, and the offender, in this
case, is not liable to be mulct in damages.
* * •
The lions of Melbourne Exhibition were
fed again last week.
* * •
The widow of five late-lamenteds has re-
married at Bendigo (Vic.). Her last venture is a
gardener, and may be able to plant her.
* • t
In a recent Southern domestic scandal it
is said that the husband asked the frail wife for a
list of the shareholders in the joint-stock company
concerned. She accordingly took a sheet of fools-
cap and made out the catalogue. This being sub-
mitted was accepted as a sufficient explanation,
and it was agreed to wipe it out and begin afresh.
Since then, however, fresh trouble has arisen and
proceedings are to be taken with regard to the
eight) or ten shareholders whom she forgot to put
down and whose little escapades therefore remain
uncondoned.
* * *
The Jaynil one declares that ‘ 1 women
should get men’s wages, ” Why, the women too often
do get the men’s wages. What Dan should arrange
for is that the wives should in all cases get their
wages.
» * *
Out of seven divorce-cases before the Mel-
bourne Court this last session six respondents
were women. The sex has a fatal faculty for re-
sponding.
* * *
The co-respondent in a recent Melbourne
divorce-case was a “Christian Evangelist,” who
conducted services at the local Temperance Hall
whilst living with Mrs. Leighton in a bucolic re-
treat not far out of town.
A fossil jawbone 2ft. Bin. long has been
found near Brngera, and local antiquarians now
profess to be in a position to prove that there were
professional politicians in the Old Red Sandstone
period.
At Minmi, N.S.W., a one-eyed man has
formed a team of “single-optic footballers,” and
offers to play any other one-eyed team in the
colonies. When the threatened match is over
there will no doubt be the makings of a fine team
of blind men. Our only wish on earth now is to
see blind men play football. Meanwhile we are
prepared to be satisfied with a tussle between a
right-eyed and a left-eyed team.
Brief Mention.
Lord Off-his Knutsford.
Grate expectations—No coal.
Nasty wether—Flukey mutton.
Fire Insurance—belief in a material hell.
Sufficient for the day is the bailiff thereof.
Warner’s “ Safe ” Cure—Abstain from
“ Drink.”
An authority on knotty points—Judge
Windeyer.
The revised version—The translation of
Bishop Barry.
Parkes’ would-be seducer regrets the even
tenner of his way.
There is a striking difference between
labour and capital just now.
The Binalong (N.S.W.) Argus is dead at
last. It has binalong time dying.
Holloway’s Pills—Romeo and Hamlet.
One dose is ample for some people.
That procession (at the gate of Waverley
cemetery, with their cold-mc at-cart): “ Jep !”
It will be a cold day when the Melbourne
Geographical Society discovers the South Pole.
John Keeping is the name of a Victorian
teetotal advocate. Keeping sober, we presume.
The “Escaped Nun” was recently an
nounced to deliver a lecture to “ both sexes ” only.
“ A good action will always bring a good
reward.”— From the Diary of Cicero Cormorant,
ex-Q.C.
The Murray difficulty is the great trouble
of the N.S.W. Ministry. The Lindley Murray
difficulty.
Nine N.Z. legislators are down on beds of
sickness. Wrestling with bills is killing work.
We have been there.
That £6OO burglary at the Carington
running-track looks very like the work of a pro
fessional pedestrian.
Anything for a change. A Gippsland
journalist lost in the Australian Alps lived on
water for five days—mountain dew, perhaps.
An Ovens (Vic.) squatter advertises for a
man to grub stumps. We envy the bloated capi-
talist who can afford to keep a private dentist.
A Melbourne clergyman boasts that he
has several regular play-goers in his Bible-class.
We hope they don’t go out between the “acts.”
A German named Fredericks blew his
head off with a charge of dynamite at the Ether-
idge gold-fields, the other day. Another blasted
life.
“ The Bishop of Melbourne in the Benevo-
lent Asvlum ” is the heading of an article in a
recent Herald. We reckon his reverence feels at
home now.
A peculiar rabbit with four large tusks
has been caught near Blenheim (N.Z.) This is
nothing ; over here the rabbit has developed into
a white elephant.
The blue ribbon is a very popular badge
amongst the Maories. As the late Titokowaru
shrewdly observed : “It looks pretty, and doesn’t
flavour the rum.”
Out of 7657 visitors to the Melbourne
Exhibition on one recent day 1534 went in “on
the nod.” Very .true, it is the gratis show the
colonies have seen.
Two women named Belt and Knight fought
at Brisbane last week. Knight was knocked down
nine times, and afterwards crawled home and
died. A Belted Knight.
Several residents in one street in a Mel-
bourne suburb have complained to the authorities
that the policeman on that particular beat creates
a great disturbance of nights. No man who
snores should be eligible for the force.
The ruling passion is strong even in death.
A man was hanged recently in Eagland, and his
last observation on the scaffold was that he re-
mained a loyal subject of his beloved Queen. The
subject then dropped.
S.M.H. advt. :
ANTED to Buy Cats, any number.
Sausage season about to boom ! Or perhaps the
Scotch-pie industry is looking up ?


At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Study your own Interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It Is made In the colony from the
best ooloniai wheat by the newest patented machinery
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very lo#l
POLITI CAL
POINTS
and never returned. In a similar spirit, the Aus-
tralian C.M.G. exhorts us to stick to the dear old
mother country from which he carefully emi-
grated.
Mr. G. D. Clark, a leading light amongst
Local Optionists, who has been supporting
Premier Parkes through thick and thin, says
“the Premier’s promises are vague, indefinite,
and for all practical purposes absolutely worth-
less.” The temperance party are finding Parkes
out at last.
The “Smudgy M.P. ” asserts that there
are already “ too many silent oysters in the
N.S.W. Assembly.” Now, the oyster that keeps
its mouth shut may at least be accounted sweet
and wholesome, while the bivalve which is always
agape, is for a certainty in a state of internal
putrescence.
In November last O’Sullivan, M.P.
(N.S.W.), moved for a return relating to “parish
roads.” The motion was carried, and a couple of
weeks ago he was officially informed that the
Department of Lands has no materials on which
to build such a return. It took nearly a year to
find that much out.
Sydney Echo publishes in large type, and
with much jubilation, a telegram that the New
Guinea natives have sung “God Save the Queen.”
Well, as the whites have left off singing “God
Save the Queen ”we suppose some other people
must be got to sing it. Perhaps niggers will do
as well as anybody else.
The toast of “ The Queen ” is out of date
in England. They now stand on their hind legs
and liquor to “The Queen and Empress.” Which
somehow reminds us that the mayor of a certain
Victorian town, at a recent luncheon in connection
with an improved drainage system, proposed
Here ia another Irishman win i 3 not a
humourist. Mudgee Haynes, M.P., printed in
his last issue an extract poem commencing
•“Who’ll bid, who’ll bid, for the Oirish vote, we
ehtand all ready to turn our coat.”
French beauties, smitten with the war-
craEe, are now tattooing the face of Boulanger on
their fair arms. When will the ladies of the
Ereetrade cimp in Sydney begin to exhibit a like
enthusiasm with respect to Parkes ?
Chief Justice Higinbotham’s judgment in
the Chinese case, at Melbourne, is said by high
authorities to be worthy of a place with the most
elaborate and cogent utterances ever delivered
from the seat of justice in any country.
The allotment of land at the corner of
Collins and Swanston streets, Melbourne, where
old Germain Nicholson for years soli groceries in
a weatherboard shanty, and which, at the first
sale, realised £45, is now valued at half a million
sterling.
Daring the recent Queensland deadlock
Griffith in his soreness and irritation about the
recent elections was almost ready to try and form
a ministry, but a unanimous and emphatic protest
from his followers, who declined to “ suicide,
prevailed.
During the past two years 5000 persons
have been settled in N.Z. under Hon. John
Ballance’s village settlement perpetual leasing
system, and the settlers are so well satisfied with
the result that they name their children after the
Ex-Minister.
The crofters are again in bad hands.
Donald Macrae, who incited them to make the
famous deer-raid, and went around raising sub-
scriptions for a defence fund and a destruction
fund is under arrest in Edinburgh, as he tried to
bolt with the lot.
As an instance of the immense profits
made out of agriculture, potatoes grown in the
neighbourhood of a good market like Manchester
are being sold at 2s. the 2521 b., and the grower
has to cart them four miles at that! — Spouting
Times (London), August 4.
It is rumoured that a syndicate has been
constructed to buy that splendid property, the
Sydney Quarantine - ground, from the N.fe> YV.
Government for a couple of millions or so. This
iground, The Bulletin contends, should never be
Lsold—it should be a public reserve for ever.
There is reason for believing that many
hundreds of thousands of pounds’ worth of rough
diamonds, stolen from the South African fields,
are annually disposed of in Melbourne and Sydney.
£2,000,000 worth are stolen every year, according
.to the pulse of the London diamond-market.
Dan. O’Connor, M.P., in a “ spache" last
week said: “He was confident that there was noth-
ing in the Parliament of New South Wales to be
ashamed of or for which an apology needed to be
made.” The duty of the electors with respect to
Mr. Daniel O’Connor, M.P., is therefore perfectly
plain.
Governor’s allowances, consisting of items
like napkins, spoons, hair-dye, cornsolvent, boot-
blacking, bar-soap, cab fares, and such, have cost
the S.A. Government £919 for one year. The
people will soon resort to the regulation old-
Australian allowance—pannikin of flour and pinch
of tea.
It is invariably found that the man who
sings “ Stick to your mother when her hair turns
grey ” ran away from home when he was a boy,
A Capital idea— Centralisation.
An expensive plaything—Ah Toy.
Has Parkes abandoned his Dead-house
scheme ?
The people of Taranaki, N.Z , openly talk
of repudiating their £lOO,OOO harbour loan.
The Echo, the new Brisbane half-penny
“jerk,” is loaded with National notions to the
hatchway.
The cost of Government in Queensland Is
£9 11s. 31. per head, while the revenue is slightly
over £8 7s.
There is a wonderful consensus of opinion
on the part of the N.S.W. country Press that
Protection is inevitable.
Anagram on N.S.W. Cabinet—“ Parcs
bib.” (Parkes, Abigail, Roberts, Clarke, Simp-
Bon, Burns, Inglis, Brunker.)
“Jim” Toohey, M.P., of N.S.W., is a
native of Emerald Hill, Melbourne. We always
thought he was an Irishman.
Cleveland, it is cabled, “deprecates the
adoption of a Ereetrade tariff.” Ereetrade and
tariff are a contradiction in terms.
At least three of the directors of the
A.M.P. Society are Protectionists and subscribe
to the funds of the N.S.W. League.
It is cabled that William Redmond has
been ordered to gaol for three months for con-
spiring to prevent the re-letting of land in Ireland.
The N.Z. Minister of Mines sues the
Auckland Heralo for having libellously stated
that he drew a salary for duties which he neglected
to perform.
Morocco proverb : “ Locusts sometimes ;
droughts often : Pachas always.” N.S.W. pro-
verb : “Rabbits sometimes; droughts often;
Parkes always.”
Oh Ist June, 1837, Henry Howie bought
four allotments of land at the first sale in Mel-
bourne for £l2l. Competent valuers now fix the
price at one million sterling.
Mr. Bruce Smith is preparing a magazine-
article on “ Strikes and their Cure.” As late
S resident of the Victorian Employers’ Union,
fr. Smith should know more about this subject
than he will care to print.
EXECUTION BY ELECTRICITY.
“His Excellency telegraphed from Wilcannia in response to appeals from a
deputation who wished to interview him in the case of Hewart that there was no reason
why the execution should be delayed.” Daily Paper.
New South Wales has adopted Execution by Electricity. Always in the van of
Progress!
“The Kempire on which the sun never sits,” and
then broke out into “For he’s a jolly good fellow.”
The landlord Government of England are
dealing with the Irish tenant population in exactly
the same manner as that in which the Australian
XrtTofUSuSiymd Co" brought
th * populMlmol
lre * ana ™ rmg laBti qua De
The Northern Argus Bays that J\[ i-
wraith’s policy from the first has been to
efface Tony Musgrave as a ‘‘living entity in the
body politic, and to relegate him to the position of
a figure-head, or more appositely of a fountain-
b u ead PW *
i n , , • *. unv, a
_ The Parkes Government has just abolished
*be polling-place which has hitherto existed at
Shooter’s Hill in the Hartley electorate of N S W
At I »st eiection 43 volwLlreffistered Pro-
fLUI and ol these -U were registered tor tne r ro
pdfeyfc to
saved from eofnl bune
be saved from going bung.
As an instance showing how great mmds,
equally anxious to discover truth, and equally able
to recognise it when they see it, may form directly
opposite opinions on a given matter, Messrs
Frank Farnell and John Haynes may be cited,
John, we know, has found eternal and undiluted
truth embodied in the present N.S.W. Ministry,
Frank) on the other hand, writes in the public
p regg . “The answer I received in the House to
my q Uery savours of that unreliable flavour which
is attached to numbers of Ministerial answers.”
This illustration of a world-wide fact deserves to
be kept by as a valuable reference.
The antipathies of the old provincial days
were the cause of the discontinuance of the ’Frisco
mail subsidy by the N.Z- Parliament. Otago
members combined to oppose the North Island
main trunk line of railway ; Auckland members
retaliated by combining against the Otago central
line, and then Obago went one better by squelch-
ing the mail subsidy, which chiefly benefits Auck-
land.
The S.M. Herald devoted a leading
article to the utterances of E, W. O’Sullivan at
Queanbeyan the other day, bub never once men-
tioned his name. When absolutely necessary be
allude to the speech-maker it designated
him a “country member.” The Keystone of the
Democratic Arch must, it seems, if he wants to
be advertised in the Herald, apply for terms at
the counter.
During the past year there sailed from the
United Kingdom for more prosperous fields no
less than 80,232 adult general labourers ; 23.481
agricultural labourers ; 18,403 mechanics ; 14,104
professional men, merchants, etc.; and 12,213
farmers and graziers. Of the female sex there
sailed 1830 milliners, dressmakers, needlewomen,
etc., and 31,275 domestic and farm servants,
nurses, etc.
The question of Republic v. Monarchy has
been satisfactorily settled by a French duke at a
Bourbon banquet. This unprejudiced patrician
(according to a joyful cablegram in the Arcius)
“ denounced the Republic ” he formerly supported
and begged to mention that the only salvation for
France lay in the restoration of Monarchy with a
large M. This annihilates at one fell blow the
idea that France is rubbing along all right, ller
unhappy people—Lord help them ! hold a
similar belief, and are blindly preparing to
celebrate 1789 wibh an Exhibition. And all this
while the Nation is becoming slowly but certainly
politically damned.
Justice Williams told the Melbourne
A.N.A. that “if it is to be feared that in the
absence of Imperial Federation these colonies will
be attacked by a foreign Power whenever Eng-
land chooses to go to war, then —in Cod’s name—
the sooner Australia is separated the better.”
Just so. And as Imperial Federation would make
an attack upon Australia even more likely, then-
in God’s name—the sooner we are separated the
better. Brethren, let us separate.
It is cabled that St. James’ Gazette ac-
cuses the people of Queensland of “disloyalty,”
and advises that the British naval protection be
withdrawn. Queensland wants Great Britain to
withdraw her so-called naval protection, and has
already told her so by declining to pay any share
of the naval subsidy. Queensland is loyal to Aus-
tralia and to herself, and is in the vanguard of the
march towards Australian independence. As
nobody ever sees St. James’ Gazette in Austra-
lia, it may be necessary to state that it is an ob-
scure little rag which was started to oppose the
Pall Mall Gazette, when the latter, prior to
becoming Radical, went over to the Liberal party.
It has a circulation of perhaps 5000 or 0000 copies
daily, is rarely read in London except in the Tory
clubs, and it has just been sold to a German Jew
financier, after Gibbs, its late proprietor, had
spent £lOO,OOO in a vain endeavour to keep it out
of the grave. The cableman would not trouble
us with the opinions of St. James’ Gazette on
Australian affairs but for the fact that the cable-
man, like his employer, the daily newspaper-pro-
prietor of Australia, is a Tory.
Daniel Henry Deniehy
The alleged bones of Daniel Henry Deniehy, poet,
patriot and politician, lawyer, orator and
journalist, were, on Saturday last, once more con-
signed to mother earth at Waver ley, Sydney, in
the presence of some 500 persons, a few of whom
had known him in life. Deniehy had lain for 23
years in a mouldy spot in Bathurst, and some
Sydney gentlemen, headed by Messrs. D. O'Con-
nor and Sydney Burdekin, “ agitated ” till his
remains were removed to “ a more congenial soil.”
Deniehy was born in the classic region of Kent-
street, Sydney, in 1828. He was taken to Eng-
land for education, but was, it is said, refused ad-
mission to Oxford University on account of his
juvenile appearance and diminutive size. On his
return to Sydney he was articled to Mr. Nicholas
D. Sbenhouse, solicitor, of Sydney, a well-known
patron of struggling literary men. On securing
admission as an attorney, he plunged into
newspaper work and politics, being returned
in 1850 for Argyle, and in '5B for East Macquarie.
He retired voluntarily from political life with the
Parliament which ended in 1850, the second under
Responsible Government. Ih 1860, he was one of
the founders of the Southern Cross newspaper.
In 1802 he went to Melbourne, and for some two
years was associated on the Victorian, a weekly
newspaper, with Judge Quinlan and others.
In the early part of 1805, he returned
to New South Wales in broken health,
and was advised by his friends to settle down in
Bathurst to the practice of his profession as a
solicitor. This he did, but a very few months
amid the ‘‘ rough and ready ” of the bullocky City of
the Plains were sufficient to wind up a career which
was not all sunshine. He died under very melan-
choly circumstances at the early ago of 37 in
October ’65, having been found in a right-of-way,
which runs from Howick to Durham streets, and
known to old residents as “Mother Black lane.
If he were alive when picked up—a very doubtful
point—he was certainly dead when the hospital
was reached. As Deniehy had not regularly
attended “his duty ” as a member of the R C:
Church, the authorities of that body denied him
Christian burial, and his remains were committed
to the earth in an unconsecrated corner of the old
cemetery, a spot which of late years has become
the camping-place of all the stray animals of the
plains. Thi3 spot was common to criminals,
drunkards, and others who died in the order of
unrighteousness. That little (if any) respect was
paid to the spot chosen for his rema'ns is evident
from facts revealed at the exhumation. When
search was made in the spot marked by the
“oldest inhabitant” with some twelve inches of
soft freestone, the diggers came upon the re-
mains of “Spider,” an aboriginal from the
Bogan, who was hanged for rape, and Michael
Maher who was executed for the murder of
Richard Higgins, at Coonanbsrabran. Both these
men were tried in October, 1806, and sentenced to
death by Kir Alfred Stephen (who still liveth);
they were executed —the aboriginal in November,
and the Irishman in December of the same year,
and subsequent, of course, to Deniehy’s burial.
We have looked up the records of these cases and
venture to assert, Mount Rennie, Johns, and
Hewart to the contrary notwithstanding, that
these men would not be executed to day. Maher’s
remains were, it is stated, actually enclosed in the
handsome oak-casket prepared for Deniehy, and
only when Father Curran, who was present,
“doubted if Den'ehy had been buried in his
boots ” did it dawn upon the searchers that they
had encoffined the remains of one who had died
by the hangman’s hand. On opening the coffin it
was found that in carelessly shovelling in the sup-
posed remains of the dead journalist a pair of
boots had also been put in. These were not likely
to have been left on Deniehy, and a closer in-
spection proved them to be prison mad«, and such
as malefactors wore at executions, and which in
those enlightened times were always buried with
the corpse “just as he was,” etc. More pick-and-
stov<l work, and eventually a skull was un-
earthed, which the “oldest inhabitant” said
looked like Deniehy’s, but the legs didn’t
fit, Deniehy being short, while the legs were those
of a “ six-footer.” Another “ oldest inhabitant,”
however, “ rimimbered that whin Dan was ber-
ried, Gcd rest his sowl,” other bones that had
been dug up were thrown in on top of his coffin,
and if the searchers went a little further they
would find what they sought. The result of their
labours, shortly told, was the ceremony at
Waverley last Saturday. Twenty-three years ago
the subject of this notice was consigned to earth
in a corner “ beyond the pale ” of God’s acre,
the ministers of a merciful Creator refusing to
read the usual service over the dead. This kindly
office was performed by one Peter White, who
held the post of C.P.S at Bathurst. For his
contumacious conduct Peter was denounced from
the altar on the following Sunday. Strange to
say, during that week Peter took ill of a fever, and
was himself buried on the succeeding Sunday.
The superstitious, of course, looked upon this as
the result of the holy father’s anathemas. Any-
how, whether through the fever or the curse,
Peter White “ shuttled off the mortal coil,” and
saved the rev. father and Holy Church from
further trouble. On Saturday last Father
Kennedy and two assistants of the Fran-
ciscans (an order, we believe, independent
of cardinals and bishops) read the burial
service, and Mr. O’Connor delivered a short
oration —as a prelude, he explained, to a
more eloquent one which Mr. Dailey hopes to de-
liver when the monument intended to be erected
is unveiled. Amongst the mourners at the grave
were the eldest daughter of Deniehy and the
widow of Henry Kendall, the latter accompanied
by her eldest son, a lad bearing a most striking
personal resemblance to his gifted father. The
spot chosen in the Waverley Cemetery is the ex-
treme edge of a shelf which overlooks the ocean,
and no lovelier spot could be chosen in which to
inter for all time all that was mortal of Australia’s
brilliant offspring, Daniel Henry Deniehy.
Melbourne Custom officers have caught a
man in the act of smuggling tobacco in his hat—
in the plug, you know.
“ A Disabled Clergyman ” is contributing
regularly to the Melbourne Herald. He’s be-
come short-winded, no doubt.
A Richmond (Vic.) clergyman speaks of
having brought pressure to bear on one girly-girly
creature in the choir. Only one ?
Bamboo furniture is coming into vogue.
The wife of to-day is afforded every facility for
correcting her recreant husband.
One of Australia’s leading musicians cer-
tifies that “ many pianos are ruined every year in
this country by the sudden changes of tempera-
ture.” God bless our climate !
A juror at Brisbane the other day asked
to be discharged because he was deaf in one ear,
and the judge granted his request, saying that he
would be sure to turn his deaf ear to the summing-
up. Ha! ha !


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live,
we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
intensely sensitive; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos,
lad. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
sth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
Bth. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg,
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
Vi*
mm
ms
BEALE PATENT NEW HIGH ARM SEWING M/OHINE
Special Qualities and Improvements.
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter ;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are wili-
ng to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
■
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertioal tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely sus-
pended in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused bv the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
eareful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late
greasy sediments.
Catalogues and Prloe Lists Pres by Pest,
BBALH AND COMP A. NY
483, 484- *Np 486 Owopov Stpubv
Saturday, October 6,
AT 3 O’CLOCK, ON THE GROUND.
PRELIMINARY NOTICE.
BRIGHTON on the BAY.
GRAND AUCTION SALE
OP
The Late Property of His Honor Mr. Justice
Higinbotham,
Having Frontages to the
Esplanade and St. Hilda Street, Melbourne,
And Comprising
Elegant Villa Residence
And
EIGHT RESIDENCE SITES.
CJ. and T. HAM (the Mercantile Finance,
• Trustees, and Agency Co. of Australia,
Limited), in conjunction with WALSTAB and
SON, are instructed by the Australian and
British Land Deposit and Agency Company,
Limited to
SELL BY PUBLIC AUCTION,
ON
SATURDAY, 6th OCTOBER,
AT 3 o’clock, on the ground,
That Splendid Block of Land having a front-
age of 224 ft. 4in. to the Brighton Esplan-
ade by a depth of 226 ft. 3|in. along a road
40ft. wide, and comprising la. lr. and
25p., on which is erected an elegant, sub-
stantia], and commodious
VILLA RESIDENCE,
thoroughly well built and tastefully
finished, the rooms being spacious and
lofty, and the domestic offices well ap-
pointed.
Mansion and Villa Sites.
Four sites, having frontages of about
50ft. EACH trt ST. HILDA STREET
by a depth of 170 ft.
Also,
Four Allotments, having each a frontage of
about 56ft. to a street 50ft. wide by a
depth of 170 ft.
These excellently-situated residence lots are con-
venient to the station, and
VITSIN ONI MINUTE OF THE BEACH,
occupying one of the choicest spots in this acces-
sible, charming, and popular seaside suburb.
PLANS IN PREPARATION.
THURSDAY, }EFJEMBER 27,
AT ROOMS.
Twelve O’Clock.
Land, Mount Gisborne
Four Choice Subdivisional Areas
Comprising 3G3 ACRES.
Magnificent VILLA SITES.
CJ. and T. HAM (the Mercantile, Finance,
• Trustees, and Agency Co of Australia
Limited), in conjunction with H. R. Dixon,
Auctioneer. Gisborne, are instructed to SELL by
AUCTION, on Thursday, 27th September, at the
rooms, Swanston-street, at twelve o’clock.
Lot 1.—124 acres, Allotment 10, Section M,
parish of Gisborne.
This lot is eminently situated for subdivision
into villa and country residence sites. The land
is undulating and exposed to the fertilising in-
fluence of the eastern sun, and slopes gradually
into a lovely valley, beautified by a number of
lightwood and other trees, and permeated by a
rippling stream.
Lot 2 —120 acres, Allotment 11, just opposite
the above, is virgin soil, closely matted with
native grass, and carries a sufficient number
of shady trees to give it a park-like appearance.
This, the best fattening paddock in the dis-
trict, has many attractions beyond its prac-
tical usefulness.
Lot 3. -Thirty-eight acres, Allotment 4, is
about one-half rich black soil, now under
crop, promising a heavy yield. The other
half is. good grazing land, lightly timbered.
Lot 4.—Thirty acres, Allotment 3, immedi-
ately opposite Mrs. Lund’s, has never been
ploughed. It is well covered with a strong
growth of native grass, which once removed
can never be replaced.
This is the only spot for miles around retaining
all characteristics of the bush. About 53 acres
cultivation land adjoining will be sold with it,
making a compact farm of
83 ACRES.
A valuable bluestone quarry is convenient to a
good road on the north-east corner of this lot; Is
per yard royalty is the price charged.
NOTE. —Nol 1 and 2of these properties adjoin
Mount Gisb me, which, while adding beauty to
the scene, affords grateful shelter from the cold
southern blasts.
These are Similes south from New Gisborne rail-
way station by a good road, and Lots 3 and 4 are
25 chains nearer to the town of Gisborne.
The fencing, post, rail, and wire, is all sheep
proof, and each lot is plentifully watered.
The land is so delightfully situated (1800 ft.
above sea-level) that the climate is bracing, and,
from its undulating nature, every 10 acres is suit-
able for a residence with plenty of run for the
pony and cow.
The outlook embraces Mount Macedon, Red
Rock, Mount Aitken, Magnet-hill, Blackwood,
and Black Forest Ranges.
For practical use, picturesque beauty, and
climatic advantages this district (32 miles from
Melbourne) cannot be excelled in Victoria.
Terms—Third cash, balance six and twelve
months with 5£ per cent, interest.
For title apply Messrs. Cuthbert, Hamilton,
and Wynne, Collins-street West, and for other
particulars to C. J. and T. Ham, Swanston-street,
or H. R. Dixon, Auctioneer, Gisborne, Mel-
bourne.
S. FREEMAN A SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Balho's Baking Poviera, Orient Smart Bln,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD ft CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS, mm SBE&BET,
&0., &0.
STEAM WORKS s
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
SEASON, 1888 and 1889.
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THE
PUBLIC.
J. H. WHITE,
(Member of Tattersall’s Club, Sydney and Vic-
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
175, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. H. White’s Weekly Ciroular of Current
Prices on all forthcoming events (as quoted at the
Sporting Clubs) forwarded Gratis to any part of
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name and
address.
Centennial Hotel,
SCOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
Newcastle.
Wines, Beers, and Spirits a Speciality.
Hot, Cold, and Showkk-Baths on each Flat.
BILLIARDS 1 BILLIARDS!
THIS Hotel is now opened, and admitted to be
the Best Fitted and Furnished Hotel in the
Colony. It is beautifully situated, being directly
opposite the Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to the
Railway Station, and convenient to all the Public
Buildings. A porter meets all trains and steamers.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
WALTER SIDNEY, Proprietor.
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL."
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-street (opposite Royal
Hotel), is acknowledged to be tone Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid Sehool Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
- . m 2
JOHN TREUTLE, Watchmaker, who left
Cnicago, U.S.A., 19 years ago, or any in-
formation as to his whereabouts, will be thank-
fully received by H. W. Miller, 14 Wynyard
Square, Sydney.
MR. NEIL MACKAY, at one time canvasser
for The Bulletin, will please communi-
cate with this office immediatelv to save further
trouble. Bulletin Newspaper Co.
I^ELACHRINO.
This most Celebrated Brand of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES
Has now the LARGEST SALE in the World.
HI. Melaclirlno «V Co., Cairo, and 21 Corks pur
Street, London,
Are by appointment Purveyors to H.R.H. Duke op Con-
naught, 11.R.H. Prince Henry of Prussia, the Courts
and Ambassadors of Europe,
The KHEDIVAL CLUB ...
„ ARMY and NAVY)
CLUB J
„ GUARDS’ CLUB ...
„ CARLTON CLUB ...
Cairo & Alexandria
| London
London
London
100 leading British and Continental Clubs.
The ROYAL ARTILLERY }
„ WATCH ...}
„ COLDSTREAM I
GUARDS /
„ ROYAL ENGINEERSj
Woolwich, and 30
other Stations
Perth, Dublin and
Malta
Windsor
Chatham, Alder-
shott and Cairo.
„ LIFE GUARDS ... London
and
150 other Regimental Messes of the British Army.
WARREIT& ROWN,
Sole Agents,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of the Choicest Brands of
HAVAHNA, mm and GERM CIGARS,
ALSO
*ar Sole Agents for the Cadeineno ltrand of
Egyptian Cigarette.
Fresh supplies arrive by every Mail Steamer. Cigarettes
always fresh and fragrant. Price Lists forwarded on
application.
Jenkins will win the two-mile bicycle race
at Balmain —or Busst,
A South Australian Gas Co. has cabled to
England for coal. N.S.W. colliery-owners have
cabled to England for miners. England, the re-
fuge of the destitute, sends the destitute to who-
ever will take them. Glorious Freetrade I
The recent gold fields will greatly increase the
value of Eveleigh Estate, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia.
WTON AND LA M &
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTER®* 5 ’
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS-
Show Rooms and Manufaotobt :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS
MM
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library. 0
rooms, new designs, covered to ora >
material.
other Celebrated Makers at WHOL
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable,
sizes.
B ]
,EDROOM SUITES, complete, 1® *ii
J Woods, and very handsome desig ’ for
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Ware
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON”& LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell
F
IYE POUNDS FIFTEEN
__ BEDROOM SUITES. - The
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, gfl|
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and
two Chairs. The lot for £6 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Stbbb 7B^--^
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable, J,
English designs.— Wardrobe, 4 ..uja&tw
silvered plate-glass door: WashstaND, w
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Tolk
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guinea*”
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Stbb® 10,
A VHT O0*'"
amo.i<;
Manfqntteß^
Tl^'
CANVAS
COTS, *° r
out. A cheap
bed light, 81
handy, 10s*
w
INING TABLES, with paten* .
D
screws, from 5 feet long and
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, atlo^>^j
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra q^S.';
with pulleys and cords, 6xB ’ l oJg,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; l^f’ ro v*
12x10,155. Newton & Lamb,
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Stre
A MBRIOAN
shut-^
CLOTHES
185 feet of h* o * l ®*
Very Ob<*P'
""" A
newton *
->A
*****
OHAIIt 3 ' 1 „»"
Substantial a® 4 *
Suitable for 9blpb °*
Verand<* D '
“ _ . JJe
NEWTON &
Furniture
Spbino and O’Oonnb
T AWN and PARK SEATS,
I 1 Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6«-
and Lamb.
Garden seats, i9s. Vera» (
Indian Lonq-Abm
NEWTON & LAM^
K
ATTAN VERANDAH
155.; and large variety off*? '
6d., etc.; special designs, extra Q 1 *® „ op rt
and Lamb, Furniture Warehouse!#
O’Connell streets.
Bedsteads, aii “^O,
Nbwton & Lamb, I®P° r
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions •J.JJ,
Nbwton & Lamb, O’Oonoe^—„
SPRING MATTRESSES, ..
make. aUo Bpiral Spring, * rono j
newton


PBOSPECTUS
OF THE
Coburg l Campbellfield Laid Company, law.
TO EE REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES STATUTE, 1864.
Capital - £1,000,000, in 200,000 Shares of £5 Each.
The first issue, now offered to the public, is 100,000 Shares, of which 50,000 will be taken, paid up to £3 per Share, by the
Vendors of the properties to be purchased by the Company, in part payment of the purchase-money, leaving 50,000 to be sub
scribed for by the public in the following manner :
2s. 6d. per Share on Application, ss. per Share on Allotment, and 2s. 6d. per
Share Monthly until £3 per Share is Paid up.
It is not anticipated that any further Calls will be required, but should any be made they will not exceed 2s. 6d. per Share, or
be at intervals of less than TWO MONTHS.
NO PREFERENTIAL OR PROMOTERS’ SHARES WILL BE ISSUED.
All Shares will be allotted according to priority of application, the earlier applications receiving the fullest allotment.
TEMPORARY OFFICE OF THE COMPANY s
EPxem-lex B'CLilcLi.ue.g' =■, Collixxs Street East-
Hon. JOHN NIMMO, M.P., J.P.
Hon. JOHN L. DOW, M.P.
THOMAS HUNT, Esq., M.P.
JOSEPH BOSISTO, Esq., M.P., C.M.G.
JAMES WARNOCK, Esq., J.P. (Warnock Bros., Malron).
J. M. HIGHETT, Esq., M.P.
PROVISIOXAL DIKE4TOHS:
JOHN KERR, Esq., Gleneoy.
JOHN ROBERTSON, Esq. (Haigh Bros., Collins Street).
J. E. GOURLAY, Esq , Hawthorn.
F. LINSEY FLINT, Esq., Hawthorn and Melbourne.
JOHN ROSS, Esq., Economic Building Society, Collins Street,
BANKERS:
CITY OF MELBOURNE BANK.
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. STRONGMAN and CRAWFuRD.
SURVEYORS :
Messrs. BRUFORD and BRAIM.
BROKERS :
Messrs. WTLLDER and GRIFFITHS, Collins Street.
AUSTRALIAN and BRTTTSH LAND DEPOSIT and AGENCY COMPANY, Salisbury Buildings
CITY AGENTS (MELBOURNE) :
Messrs. FRASER & CO. (Limited), Auctioneers, &c., Queen Street.
SUBURBAN AGENTS:
HAWTHORN ...
ESSENDON & DISTRICT
DONCASTER ...
WILLI AMSTOWN
BRUNSWICK ...
RICHMOND
GEELONG
WANGAKATTA
BE KCH WORTH
BALLARAT
SHEPPARTON
SALE ..
„ F. L FLINT.
Messes. BUZZARD & CO.
Mr. T. E. HOPE.
~ .T. MORGAN, Nelson Place.
„ JOHN FERGUSON, Sydney Road.
„ JAMES STEWART, Bridge Road.
COUNTRY
Mr. JAMES HENDY.
„ J. CADDICK
Messrs. A. PORRTT & CO.
„ LAMBERT & WALKER.
„ S. M‘DONALD & WALKER
„ LITTLE & BORTHWICK.
SOUTH MELBOURNE
ELSTERNWICK & CAULFIELD
COBURG
FOOTSCRAY
CARLTON
ST. KILDA
AGENTS:
EUROA
WARRNAMBOOL
ECHUCA
MAFFRA
SECRETARY (pro tern.):
JAMES H. MIRAMS, Esq., 54 Collins Street East, Melbourne.
Messrs. LILLIE & DAVIES.
Mr. T. HOLT.
J. M. BARR, Nicholson Street.
Messrs. lEVERS & SON.
Mr. GEO. VALE LINTON, High Street,
SLEE, OGIEBY & CO.
JAS. BOSTOCK & Co.
SHACKELL. WHITE & CO.
(Limited).
A. M‘LEAN & CO.
This Company is being formed for the purpose
of purchasing and re-selling certain properties at
Coburg, Campbellfield and Somerton, near Mel-
bourne, containing 4133 acres (more or less), and
thereby ensuring for the shareholders the oppor-
tunity of participating in the certain advance which
will inevitably be made in the value of these pro-
perties when the railway now being constructed
from Coburg to Somerton is complete, and the
consequent settlement in the neighbourhood is
obtained.
It is impossible to overstate the advantages
which these properties possess for the purpose of
suburban residences. The land is all high table-
land, from nearly every part of which magnificent
views of the City of Melbourne, with the bay and
its surroundings, can be obtained. The facilities
for communication with the city are complete,
no less than six Railway Stations being either in
existence or about to be constructed on or near the
land. The new line to Somerton runs right through
the properties, while the extension of the Coburg
Tramway, for which a Company has been formed,
will add to the convenience for travel of the whole
of the residents on these estates.
These properties will be purchased at various
prices, the average cost of the whole being a frae-
’tion over £202 per acre. Bearing in mind the rates
at which land has been selling in the locality for
months past, this price is highly satisfactory to
the shareholders, and the vendors show their con-
fidence in the investment by their offer to Btill
retain an interest in the estates to the extent of a
quarter of a million sterling.
There is a valuable deposit of clay in one part of
the land, which is now being carted to Brunswick
for use in the potteries, and a very valuable
granite formation in another, which, if developed,
will ensure large profits to the shareholders.
There are three miles or more of frontage to the
Sydney-road, which, as settlement goes on, will
become as valuable for business purposes as are now
the frontages to the same road in the towns of
Coburg and Brunswick.
| {No one who has taken note of the passing events
of the day but must have come to the conclusion
that those persons have been most easily and cer-
tainly enriched who have invested their money in
freehold land in the city and suburbs of Melbourne.
They must further have observed that the largest
and most rapid profits have been made in those
localities through or to which new suburban lines
of railways or tramways have been or are being
constructed.
This investment is especially adapted for the
convenience and advantage of Persons Residing
in the Country, and who are unable, except in
the way which this Company offers, to secure a
share in the large profits which the townspeople
are realising through the great increase in the
value of town and suburban land, which increase
the extended settlement in the country districts
helps to produce.
The Residents in the City, Suburbs, and
Country Towns will find it equally to their ad-
vantage to become shareholders in this Company,
the terms of payment upon the shares having been
purposely so arranged as to bring them within the
reach of every thrifty person in the community.
A deposit in the Savings Bank will earn its care-
ful owner 4 per cent, per annum, while investors
in land, through the medium of Land Companies,
have been making for years past profits ranging
from 20 to 100 per cent. To all persons, therefore,
whose means are not sufficient to enable them to
make an investment in land upon their own indi-
vidual responsibility, this Company offers the
opportunity for making such an investment, to
any extent they choose, in partnership with their
fellow-shareholders.
The railway now being constructed through
these properties will, the department anticipates,
be opened for traffic by the end of this year, when
an immediate and large increase in their value may
certainly be reckoned upon.
It is now universally adnvtted that land is the
safest and surest iovostw ■t; but in addition to
all the reasons which »n t port this opinion as
regards land generally, there is one distinctive
reason for holding that opinion in respect to these
properties in particular. It is this : —Everyone is
aware that land on the south of Melbourne has
gone up in value much faster and much higher
than land at corresponding distances north of the
city, almost entirely for the reason that railway
facilities have been lavished on the one district
and denied to the other. This unequal treatment
will not be suffered much longer, and immediately
public opinion in the northern suburbs enforces its
just claim to equal attention, the Direct Line of
Railway to the Flinders-street Station will
be made, with the result that these properties will
be doubled in value thereby. Let it be borne jn
mind, too, that this increase in value will be inde
pendent of and in addition to the certain and
gradual increase which goes on daily through the
growth of the city and its population.
Applications for Shares can be made direct to
the Secretary, James H. Mirams, Esqi., at the
Office of the Company, 54 Collins-street East, or to
either of the Brokers or Agents in Town
Country.


Business Announcements.
&r THE O JSJ LT ■»
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
Direct Supply Association!
658 George Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
5 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and purchasers will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others.
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. 6d. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 35 P ,
>» »» >t » steel notes ... 50s.f]8
Organ Concertina, in wood box 21s.
©
The finest show of ACCORDEONS to be seen
n the colonies from 10s. 6d. up to £5 at any
Pjwe* SPEOTA I , LINES to suit COUNTRY
UKhhRS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 30s. Od.
Patent Silver „ 32 5 . 6d.
Patent Steel „ „ ... 35 5 . Od.
> 7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and extba set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10a.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Piute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents In Australia
FOB
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
Mill VIOLIN SUES,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OP STRINGS
for the
'Mir, Cello, Viola Double Dais, Harp,
Zitbar, it., it,
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5, 6 or 7 „ „ „ £4 10/-.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
special lines, we at once despatch Instruihent. In-
struments packed carefully and sent to any part of
the colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SMfIONSEIW, Manager,
658 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair. —To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthened and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
the coming colony, and
the relation in which it will stand toward Austra-
lasia will evidently be one of great influence.—
E. Favenc
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Possesses Copper, Lead, Tin, Gold, Silver and
Iron Ore in abundance. Her climate is mild and
healthy, her timber—especially the Jarrah—is re-
nowned for its durability and usefulness. Great
railways are being constructed connecting PERTH,
the Capital City, with the interior.
Telegrams respecting the Gold Discoveries ap-
pear almost daily in the newspapers.
The Colony is going right ahead on its prosperous
way. . Investors are now offered a rare chance of
securing Blocks of Land almost in Perth, the
Capital City of this coming Colony, for a
“mere song.
The EVELEIGH ESTATE,
Perth, Western Australia,
Only about half-a-mile from the city, fronting a
Government road, excellently situated, good build-
ing land, must return a handsome profit to buyers.
ONLY £lO EACH BLOCK.
£1 deposit; balance 10s. monthly. No interest.
Torren’s Title. Free deeds to purchasers of 5 lots.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets containing valu-
able information posted on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Limited,
90 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
I
./fc'ENTS ,
o
H-’
S
T
O
U
DELSSSA& PHILLIPS
' 3& 5 Barmck Street.
E. C. ELEY
&
&
\m
&
:
SE
<<
9?
j 6)
A
<b
*
Yi
v
o
&
9?
o
Sr
O
*
v
O
£
&
Q
&
0
i\
o
0
*
o
vVx< N
0
o
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDUNTES Y.
Sr h
William’s Australian Inseotiolde Is death to all lnseots.
Simple in application—sure in effeot. This Is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being oertain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Inseotioide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rouslllon, Madeira,
Musoat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled Hlgh-olass Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, ohemist, near King.street.*
“ They fit perfectly, and arc
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried."
(Signed) Marie Roze.
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Dorset
Will not split in the Seams
nor tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect Com-
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “ Y &N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
Three Gold Medals 11
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
T IFE PRESERVATION:
BY
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Stbeet East, Melboubnb.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL, £600,000.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
3 months, 6 per cent.
6„ 6 „
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months 1£ per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
FOR SALE. —Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS
HO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYONEY.
II
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE.
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
10!
INDENTS ARK EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS,
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. 7
The Bast Manufacturing Machines In Exlstenaa.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bols Ageata So* the above for New South Walea and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all details, Including Machinery.
Imported Leathers, &c.) and of the following Special LinesPEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH.
NUBIAN BLACKING t Tanners’ Tool* and Materials. Indents exeeoted on Favourable Terms'
Business Announcement*.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
Wo reoommend these BITTBRS to be taken twi
or three times a day j a wineglassful for an adnlt,
smaller quantity for children.
? eneral Exility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
Tli® action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other mmHninai
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will And
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
people about half the quantity twloe a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER,
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of yous
Row s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
_ M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 80, 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure In reoom.
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
Buffering for several years with liver oomplalnt,
and been under several doctors for it without any
ourative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
_ _ . 0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August SI, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
the undersigned t—
“ I have for many years been obliged to 1
medicines of different kinds for affeotlons of *
liver, indigestion, pain In the chest, general de
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produoed an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the exoefient qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflloted aa I have
been may take advantage of thnm,
“ I remain, dear Birs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
44 __ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
Meain. Bdi Row and Company, Sydney; 11
nowc
Rembrocation
If \ SOLD n
4 EVERYWHERE
m
Raws Ss&anes Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant lor the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Row's Steane’s Wine.
It cannot harm you, but mußt do good to all
delicate persons. Youngi Ladies can take thlß
when suffering from general debility. It’B only a
pure tonio. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity,
“ Having oa’-efully examined a bottle of Row S
‘Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I consider them a very wholesome
tonio, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly free from any injurious
chemicals, too often used in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M‘KILLOP, Analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1884."
Row's Steane's wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unßur
passed.
TRY THRU.
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW'S ASSORTED BITTRRS,
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW'S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTRRS.
ROW'S ASSORTED WINES
Sou Proprietors,
Edward Row & Company,
13, 15, 17 GEORGE BTRBBT, SYDNEY.


GH3-A.ITB t HOTEL,
OOKNER OF
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
*
ISS
coscnovc
W 2
tllPwM
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel)
Proprietress.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BBIQHTON OW B-W.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Snppere, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rtchcrcKl
dinner, you oan enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country
here also you oan have good oompany, good wines—in fact, everything that oan possibly make one
oomfortable oan be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Tabic
da H6ta at 1 o’clock dally and Sundays, No expense 1s spared by Mrs. Eilminbtkb to make her
vlliters comfortable, and her Hotel the best In the colony.
Mrs. KILMNSTER, Clarendon Hofei,
Orroerra CO®AN BEACH, MANLY,
f
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Gasfitters, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Medleval Metal Workers,
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Staninore Road, Petersham.
Perdriau «§& Co. 5
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber goods for all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
LEA&PERRINS'SAUCE
tn (dnseqvefifr cf imitations 'THE l WORCESTERSt&tUB
5.4 UQB tofiictfari'cntcutaUtl to dteeive the Puhlit. lj& anA firrriKS
J&a.
tofftsUf > &Si£M*4j> ofxtfie original WOBttXfERSBIW
sAVC’£*sF%uifu.
Ask fot LEA P£#R/JV& S&B&h'Gn# Ld&Vßmr* *f
Stopjxr, Wholesale and foP Export by> the ' Proprietors, - Worcester t. Crosu ■ earn
_ Blackterll, Condon, g and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the Wop'Oh
flpnUl bo « MI> * Ontu^
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured !
The Greatest Success V mmiTTT f All Chronic Disease
of Modern Times. / CONSULT \ are Curable.
Ur, H. S, KUSELHANN, Consulting Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
60 WIIIUM STREET, 11111, ICO I KX E.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July, 1886.
To H. E. Kugelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Ileathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse ; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
oulous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness —J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
S3T All Consultations Free.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Cure
not being Effected.
A IOVEUIIV BEHEST
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Dolorkux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating; Fains when ona
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure in a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No ohange in diet
neoessary. In Bottles, Is., 3s. 6d., 55., and 10s,
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency oan be seen. Admitted by the Medloal
Faoulty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
fl. i. BOSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
6SI George-street, only,
TATTERSALL’S
XOXSTSB CONSULTATIDIS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Tear, For full partloulara aee
Town and Country Journal," also Brevltlea In
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall's," care
of Oeorge Adams, Tattersall’s Olub, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tiokets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enolOße two addressed stamped envelopes, oni
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
The Australian Mercantile Loan & Guarantee
COMPANY, Limited.
Capital £500,000.
Sydney Sites: Corner of Met i York Streets,
Accident , Insurance and Guarantee Department.
General Accidents , Employers' Liability,
Fidelity Guarantee Policies
Issued on the most Favourable Terms.
Proposal Forms and Tables of Rates upon
application.
Robt. B. Wallace - Accident Superintendent.
The Company also, in its Banking and Commercial
Departments, make Immediate Advances upon Deeds of
Land and all classes of Commercial Securities.
DEPOSITS received at 12 months, 7 per oent. ; six
months, 6 per cent.; and three months, 5 per cent., and
bonus at maturity.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RLSSKLL MARSHALL,
General Manager.
FOR SALE.—Two grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
JOHN BUCKHAM,
286 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon
Covers (Creased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
Coolers, Whin Buckets all sizes, at lowest prices.
Note the Address.
Oldest established house in the trade.
JOHISr BUCEHA UVE,
286 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
CHIB FAMOUS AND FAVOURIT3 BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
BUU maintain! Hi Prertige and itandi ore-eminent amon
the hoita of other brand! ai
XHN BIST QUALITY BRIAR FIPI OFFHRHD TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The nndentgned are prepared to tnforia the Law agalnat
all perioni imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT * 00.,
11l OLARRNOH-BTRHRX.
QBD. QBD.
We have Large Bbipmente of Util BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipment! oomlng forward
WHOLHBALR ONLY.
BEUNTO IPS
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Orb be obtained throughout New South Wale*,
Queensland, and Ylotorla.
SYDNEY .„ ... 84 Pitt Strrm.
BRISBANE... ... ...Edward Stbrrt.
MELBOURNE Bpbnobb Btbin
NOTHING LIKE IT!!!
FUN WITH CONCEALED CAMERAS I
The coscealep cameras are designed for the use
of those who wish to photograph, without attracting the
attention of anyone, the interesting sights met in everyday
life ; such as picturesque groups, quaint figures and striking
facial expressions, where opportunity to sketch or to set up
an ordinary camera and tripod, arrange the focuß, draw
slides and Buch manipulation are out of question. The
beautiful results obtained with these cameras, and the ease
with which they are secured, make It of great value to
Artists, Detectives and Tourists.
We have Reduced the Price of these Instruments
considerably, and send full particulars of same on applica-
tion and enclosure of stamps.
-
I
BSSBS
IH
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
S 3 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, and
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH ST., BRISBANE.
Assurance Companies.
THB AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE*
MBNT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Aot of Parliament B 7 Vlr„
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... ... m 41,000,000
Paid-up and Subscribed ... w 483,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy*
Chairman.
This Company reoeives deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 3 years _ 7 per oent. I For 1 year _ fl per cent.
For 6 months 1 per oent. j For 8 months _ 8 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST oharge on its entire real and personal
property, including its unoalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, eto., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auotion and
Private Contract.
Hjiad Off iob— lo, & 12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. O. NEILD, Manager.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
Established 1849,
Head Office —87, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors:
J- P- ABBOTT, Esq., M.P., Chairman
JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Chief Medical Officer j
JAS. O. COX, M.D.
Actuary:
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A,
Secretary:
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A,
This Society is the only Australian Life Office l
which declares a BONUS EVERY YEAR.
The PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF PROFIT
are—the high rate of interest obtained on the ac-
cumulated funds; the small percentage that the
expenses of management bear to the annual in-
come ; and the extremely favourable rate of mor-
tality which continues to be experienced.
MEMBERS MAY on their Policies
to the extent of 90 per cent, of the Surrender
Value.
Policies are not forfeited so long as the Sur-
render Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
BONUSES VEST after Policies have been two*
full years in force.
Business Announcements.
K IN G’S ¥«EWS
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLAN CAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&C*| &C.j
316 6EQBSE ST., betweea Butw4 aai (J.P.O,


AUSTRAL PARK & RECREATION GROUNDS Co.,
* LIMITED.
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES’ ACT, 1864.
Capital .... £50,000, in 50,000 Shares of £1 each.
Payable by Deposit, 2s. 6d. per Share on Application, and 2s. 6d. per Share on Allotment, Balance by Calls when
necessary, but no call to be made within one month of the previous call.
i3T 20,000 SHARES HAVE ALREADY BEEN APPLIED FOR.
Provisional Directors
G. H. BENNETT, Esq. (Ex-Mayor of Rich-
mond).
G. C. CLAUSEN, Esq. (Ex-Mayor of Fitz-
roy).
F. GROSSE, Esq., Torringa.i
R. K. MONTGOMERIE, Esq., New Brewery.
W. MANNING FOSTER, Esq , Melbourne.
L. KONG MENG, Esq., Melbourne.
G. MAYGER, Esq., Melbourne.
C. F. TAYLOR, Esq , B.A, Melbourne.
JOHN ROWAN, Esq., J.t\, Merchant, Moiint
Gam bier.
G. M. PICKLES, Esq., Pickles Carriage Manu-
facturing Company.
COLONEL MORGAN, U.S. Consul of America.
JAMES MOORE, Esq., J.P., Contractor,
Melbourne.
W. H. MASTERS, Esq., W. H. Masters & Co.,
Importers.
Bankers :
BANK OE AUStRAtAStA.
Solicitors :
Messrs. TAILOR & RUSSEtB
Architect:
RE©. R. JOHNSON, Esq.
Auditors :
HOWELL & MtJEDELL.
itroker:
\V. B. LOVERING, Nicholson Chambers.
Secretary :
L. N. CURNOW.
Office : NICHOLSON CHAMBERS, SWANSfON STREET.
The land has increased in value £5OOO since it was purchased from Mr. Murphy. The whole of this profit is in favour of the
Shareholders. The list will positively close on the 30th of SEPTEMBER next, when Tenders will be called for the erection of the
various buildings. t
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Leßßees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison
Doors open 7 Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45
IMMENSE”SUCCESS
of
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Larar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
MISS NELLIE FARREN’S LONDON
GAIETY COMPANY in Miss Esmeralda.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s.
Ashfield recreation grounds
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
Sydney
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity lor 2000 Skaters. Seating 6000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters,
MORNING SESSIONS
FOR
LADIES AND CHILDREN ONLY.
1000 pairs of the world-renowned Winslow Vine-
yard Skates for Sal 6. These skates are used
exclusively by all professionals, and are the best
made skate ever manufactured.
’Buses will leave Wynyard-square every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bedford street, Exhibi-
tion gates.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS
of
OUR BLONDINETTES.
THE JAPS, KOTOMO and MUKEKE,
n an ENTIRELY NEW CHANGE of ACTS
BONELESS and SINEWLESS.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orohestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Baloony, Bd.
tOTANYI BOTANY 1 BOTANYI
SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
AND SACRED AND CLASSICAL CONCERT OF
Well-known Artists.
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest 1—
ider the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH
Director.
Amusements,
ONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates —fare, 4d.
OF MUSIC.
Lessee and Proprietor F. E. Hiscocks.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, and
EVERY EVENING UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.
PROFESSOR CANNARIS
THE GREAT GREEK ILLUSIONIST.
THE WONDER OF THE WORLD.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1888,
and LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
THE LATEST LONDON SUCCESS,
by Sydney Grundy, Esq., entitled
THE ARABIAN NIGHTS
THE ARABIAN NIGHTS.
ADMISSION—Ss., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Grand crystal palace
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
®HI MOST FASHIONABLE BINK IN SYDNEY.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band every afternoon
and evening; conductor, Mr. Geo. Vassie.
SESSIONS
MORNING, 10 to 12. Ladies and Children
AFTERNOON, 1 to 5. Free.
EVENING, 7 to 10.
ADMISSION, Is.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
Alhambra music hall,
George Street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Grand Sacred and Classical concert
every
SUNDAY NIGHT at 7.30.,
when will be rendered a choice and select Pro-
gramme, under the conductorship of
Mr. CHAS. AUSTIN.
SEE DAILY PAPERS OF SATURDAY.
Royal standard theatre,
Sub-Lessees...Messrs. Gerald and Duff.
SUCCESS ! SUCCESS !
Of the Popular Artists,
Mr. H. C. SIDNEY and Miss ALICE NORTON
In the MYSTERY OF A HANSOM CAB.
A crowded and enthusiastic audience greeted the
well-known views of Melbourne, and the powerful
Dramatic Company, and the real Horse and Cab.
Standard Prices—-35., 25., Is.
QR. RUMNEY
presents his compliments to
HIS AUSTRALIAN COUSINS,
and begs to say he will be happy to welcome them
again this season on board
THE ‘ WONDER,” COACH,
which last season carried safely 1934 Passengers,
and since October, 1880, has covered 63,785 Miles.
The trip to ST. ALBANS is a perfect “ sensa-
tion,” and the lunch there is a “ blessed reality,”
fully appreciated by those who have a “Wonder”
Coach appetite. The Cathedral is one of the finest
and oldest in the world.
Ask at the Coach Office, HATCHETT’S
HOTEL, Piccadilly, for all particulars,
BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE.
HAIRORESSEBS about Commehcing Business, as well as those already established, will find at
CRAIG & AIT KEN’S
New South Wales Barbers 9 Supply House,
Shampooing Apparatus, American and Colonial Hairdressing Chairs, Scissors, Combs, Brushes,
Mirrors, Hot Water Urns, and every requisite at Prices which defy competition.
£3" AGENTS for the Celebrated “ PLUM ” Brand of RAZORS and SCISSORS.
Complete SALOON Outfit from £io upwards. Assistants engaged for Town and Country Customers.
Note Address—
CRAIG & AII'KEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
Prick List Posted] 082 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. fox Application.
| “The Consumption Cure/’
A Safe Remedy for
PULMONARY CONSUMPTION,
and all
DISEASES and AFFECTIONS of the LUNGS,
LIVER, and KIDNEYS.
Prepared and Sold only by
WILLIAM LORD & CO.,
No. -4 Australia . Street, - ■
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Pamphlets on application.
I am happy to be able to testify to the won-
derful curative qualities of Ford & Co.’s Con-
I sumption Cure. My son, aged 9 years, suffered
from consumption, and had several severe attacks
of hemorrhage of the lungs, and became so pro-
r strated under the most skilful medical treatment
, that no hopes of his recovery were entertained. I
| placed him under Ford's Consumption Cure treat-
1, ment, with the result that he soon recovered, and
[ is now a fine, healthy lad.— Edward B. Lumley,
! CliftoD, Telopia-street, Redfern.”
“I was a sufferer from a distressing chronic
|,j cough for four years, and under Ford & Co.’s Con-
-1 sump tire Cure treatment I got perfect relief, two
b bottles effecting a cure. Thomas Adamson,
p Mitchells-street, Blue’s Point, St. Leonards.
“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. The
Metropolitan? Stakes run September 25, 1888.
2000 subscribers at 20s. each. First horse, £BOO .
Second, £250; Third, £150; Starters, £250; Non-
Starters, £250 (divided amongst them); also 100
Cash Prizes of £3 each. Also the Metropolitan
Stakes of 2000 subs, at 10s. First horse, £400;
Second, £200; Third, £100; Starters, £100; Non-
Starters, £lOO (divided amongst them); also 50
Cash Prizes of £2 each. The Melbourne Cup.
Run November 6, 1888. 10,000 subscribers at 20s 1
each. Fir ; t horse, £4000; Second, £2000; Third |
£1000; Starters, £700; Non-Starters, £BOO (to be
divided amongst them); 25 Cash Awards of £2O
each; 25 Cash Awards of £lO each; 100 Cash
Awards of £7 10j. each. In this event there are
four separate drawings—lst, the horse, then each
of the money prizes, which reduces the odds of a
prize to about ten to one. Also, one of the Mel"
bourne Cup, 10,000 subscribers of 10s. each, with
the same number of prizes as in the above event,
of just half the value. Subscribers are particularly
requested to adhere strictly to the address at foot,
and register all letters, and app'y early, so that
the forbunate drawers of horses may have time to
hedge. Enclose two stamped addressed envelopes,
for reply and result. Address “ Australia,” care
of Mr. Hugh Dalveen, Victoria Cafe Hotel, near
General Post Office, Ceorge-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
si^-
1
&
4*
Q)
i
m
m
m
i
A
a®
I
SB
*1
J®.
w
HADDON: “ BLOW THE THTNG ! IT WON TGO OUT.


Hotels.
BttBBUL MOTEL, tCSIiSIMJ,®
pwißf OtABS accommodation for eßtcmerslal
i^.„r* lßM,Ken others. Private sitting room*
aw « »««ms. JAMES SIMONS. Proprietor
MORGAN HOTEL, QUEENSLAND,
tkt distinguished patronage of His Bs
f A. Mnegrave, K.C.M.G. Aoeommo
ftihi Bo vl#lt orB. Two-atorey buildings. From
tfea , , ® r!ea * splendid view can be obtained of
. t6C mountain of gold, and within a few
Jr**** walk of the oompany's works. Passengor
v*U eoaohes daily from Rookhamptan and
2*®* Mailway-statlons. W. MONGKTQSS, Pra
C®‘ 6 *< U the arm of Monckton and Oa,
MOUNT MORGAN,
Sflaffional listol
10 BEDROOMS.
I*® Hotel has been beautifully done ay, and
OHito 5 * BBW lor the reception of visitors,
esmfoit, Cellar stcoked with best brands
"s«Ba moderate, Mrs, Harass, Proprietress,
Woods’ hotel,
MILEOUBEIi
Hakwav Tsawiscra, SrssoEg-esaaaa,
« TORS patronising the above hotel, which
m a ** B Utely had an addition of over IQB rooms,
all modern Improvements, such as light,
•tltt well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
•ttoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
Nli t£?^ e baths passenger elevator, eleotrio
Sew. 1 viephone, and all other hotel requisites, not
,n Australia. Visitors oan rely
**4 Mi 8 °* Ued for early morning trains. Letters
)lgQ*jtKrams promptly attended to. Prices very
PETER WOODS,
Owner and PssPßiatft*
Medical.
JpR. SPEER’S:
DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STRESS”
and York Streets.) P.O. Box 828. D
» tegular Graduated Physiolan, educated
Allege, U.B. (for oonflrmatlon see New Zealan
January 21st, 1886; also New South Wal
bn, '• A PtU 17th, 1888). The dootor has devoted
?»Cla t H* study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AN
Jfwialß a?S eases - E ° ul f of these were In the leadln
ftiw y* she Unifearl Rfin.fr,ph whinh onahlcß him fen fevei
irlm —° **«» uuuobu opinion of their comp!
Itl v " en «ng; no Meroury used. He ill guarantc
rj? °hre in every oase he undert kes, forfe
I?Hei o teason for doing so is this—whe there
ras.vsi? 1 * and nothing but an inorganlo trouble, oi
i a oonglomeration of symptoms produoln
i, ® With th ere is no reason why it oannot be r
WiitTPPer remedies, therefore he guarantee
, distinctly understood that he does not olali
““Possibilities, or to have [miraculous' powei
only t 0 be a skilled and successful physioiai
Sit at home! The "course" of treatment wf
LfttT «!J a y interfere with their business. Examlm
Lu »* Q vlce free to all. Charges moderate. H
George and Yor
Office hour
Sundays, froi
SW
onlv
J* * U KC Bound BOOK on SELF-OURI
to; ' #BTo u* Diseases) price, lnoludlng post
la stamps. Consultation oasts nothing
“'Stj, ®°°tar will tell you at once whether you
'•hrabi*
*8 not. Address.—|
l*}' RIOHABDB,
STREET, SYDNEY.j
Aimomicemenii,
jj
nL *CK OILS
subrogation.
% CAHLE & HR
Hair Grow over Oldest Soars.
® I LVER:
J MEDAL,iSYDNEY, 1888.
aa a Dressing for FRESH
SORE BACKS, GIRTH
jJJW broken knees, greasy
. D and quarter crack,
; and as an Embrocation
C URBS, STIFF JOINTS
1-
» Bs. Sd, per BOTTLE.
I) Bom Agent
Infield, M.P.S.,
\ O RGE „STREETi|WEST,
AND ‘• J
\ REDFERN J
\ at """
V\ Wholesale Houses, Druggists,
nd :3torekeepers.
NP MILES.
COMMISSION JLQENT,
ExoHAwaw
s towers, Queensland.
Business Announcements
X X
m.
&
• 4 "T
* «r
<W:,. ——
aUri* P a QP
HATS CAPS&c
4jA if *mc£ $ T
HVDNSY
//
r
UMBRELLAS
RE COVERSO.
. , -
QT'UDY ECONOMY
and
Uase vour Umbrella Pr»s«*
/O'rml. and your
Para»o;; re-lined and -.mad® esjfnrf
to New, at
J. SULLIV A^N-’S,
541 George Str •■'t
Brtckfteld Hill, br' *«r
LiTerpool and Bathur-
Parasols made to match cm
Repairs neatly exM**fet
pALAOE FAMILY HOTEL
A Corner of
dSANIiBY AND MELBOURNE STBBBTS,
SOUTH BRISBANE
9 -rat-class Accommodation. Snites of Apartment*
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City,
DAVID LYONS Pweßiiroa.
E
XCELSIOR HOTEL,
TOWERS.
CHARTERS
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
T
O RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
£60,000 to s Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
FUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable In
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight In
fold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
'ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Redfern, Sydney.
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
'.M PORTERS, Or Al L THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
V/
hi
A l
Rf
imMNc p
%
\ \>
%
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
*O R i
HIQHEST D BCR EE OF MERIT
WV. ■; V
4. ...
JSTHEBESTINTHE-WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
KE CE iV ED THE INTERN ATI OFfAT
PR{ZEMEDAL
Want* n crus*o byJ am t sChannojT
HardouA S t Sydney
Sold by Afl Grocers and Storekeepers
IP
PATENT
in
PI
LLS
ft?
fIK
©
Business Announcements,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Are universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling'
after Mealß, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
('old Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costiveness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
ling Sensations, &c. The first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
at a few doses of them carry off all humours* and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any" obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
will soon restore females of all ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
For a "Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore, the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BEECH AM’S PILLS have the Largeet Sale of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills,
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheezing, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
Satient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
OTJG-H PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short ‘ime be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
rpHB BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
JL Sydney Branchesi
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET,
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canaan, add can offer special facilities for dealing
In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred’t.
Drafts Issued and Bills oc’looted on most favour-
able terms, at rateß which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIh Acting Manager,
OIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE 1
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and theU l
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No ;Mobh MERCURY ob other Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Sr. T. G. WRIGHT.
M 8., Cn. M„ &o m
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medicalßoards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
Victorian Progressive Medical Institute. 9 *
} 68, FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the soientiflo and effectual cure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections,
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervons,
Hbad, and Mind Affeotions, Sorofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions , Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so: if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting a
cure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Batterers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N.B.— I wish it distinctly understood that I do not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I claim only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly Informed In my speciality.
Note Address—
F&O&ftESSITE VEDICAL lISTITDTE,
53, Flinders Street W., Melbourne.
JV So connection with any other Medical Institute in
Australia. Box 868. G.P.O.
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
>3 Sloe.
Business Announcements,
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY,
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
POLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
V. fialcMn, Johnston & Do.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney.,
Robert butcher & oo
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and ontf Of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
WE can recommend the Imperial Haie
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane,
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address-
Temple Building, George-street (six doors fron
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D"'RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. ROYAL FOOL
LONDON, ENGLAND.
BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
SSSatSISDXBK
i<njaSs f Xi* W,a\u&
I. STEPHENSON
HAS ON SALE-
WINK CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATIJ
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS. STABLE
BUCKETS, &0.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STRESS |
Between King and Market Streets.
1 'teMttflUM&Mfcß
Moustach® ftni
.akorin sefor* att£*
Otpyrighted,
Wo J
i Boyi f“« Beard Elixir did this,
Ja?i4 will do it on either bald
’head or bare foes- Forces
heavy Moustache in ,ftw» S 3 to
4 weeks a:%d never fails, 20,000*
young men already wear full
ieardo, having used Its 3 pkto. No injury, nutty appliod. etr tala
I* effect. Packet), It. B<J. each, 1/or St, &d ao»t paid. ten* muiiot?
lover, free from obxrvation „ itMreoo, Fnak Wntßclaao Solo Aptm3,
Bo»m. a.r.0., Sydney, tr.a.w.
SWALDBR, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin MaIUE
• Sgfl PITT STREET,
twn»
9<|H 00 WBQbMfJ
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all other) for it) lasting and natural
fragrance.
Thrbb Gold Msiuh-
PAR 13,1878; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNB I YLANG YLANG
BTEPHANOTIB I OPAPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled lor tliair delightful and lasting odour
Atkinson’s celebrated
EAXT DE COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It 1s far superior to the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
Of all Dtaltrt, and of tht Manufacture—
J. A B. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bonn Snin, Londok.
Trade Markc-“'Whiteßose” on" Golden >
Lyre.” jA
AXrad


ROYALmut
m r.
POWDER
Absolutely Purts
For quick baking. Raises bread, blsonlbi, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains Its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
©svernment. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
Wholesome. Sold only in tins . Royal Baking)
Pawns:*; Co., 106 WaU-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
Nkw South Walks.
AiO««
o»
mr WINBS. S 3E» ISUE W■« BHHRS, «00-n
George end Glpps Streete p Sydney.
BPMOMALITIESt-
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to U yeses old)! W. Jameson’s, granvUle'a, Roe'a, W l «e'«
f £ , .(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, MaitoU’s and Sazerao’s Brandies (5, 10,15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
r The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. m All brands of Colonial Wiaes.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Halos’ Hotel, 778 ft 780 Gaorga-stroot.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 Beorge Street, Sydney.
m SEND FOB A PRICE LIST.
riMiii HUES’ UrSEEIMEIT Mil til IIWIII,
GIPPS STBMH (opposite A. Hobdkbn & Sons).
Prodncn Stom * gipps street and darlinghurst road.
HEAD OFFIOH—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.
XSTBOT
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES^
;rORK STRUTT. RTRYARD’SQUARE,
- :amd ~13
60 CLARENCE STREET,: SYDNEY,
Nalbaaraa? and London. _
ILLUSTRATED OATALO9UKI WRI PRIOR LIST, FREE ON 'APFLIOATIURi"""
WALLACH BROTHERS.
f»m s rxixi,
otuB m
m Asiatic Peiia* ia& KfieeJ|**
sgsaMatef softness and bsuUen
Photographs •*
CHARLEMOMY ft
ROYAL ARo43®>
'wand PKa.*Mnmmi
COLE MANE &
Euoalyptb OB*
AND
Victory Oist*®;,#
A Fture Extract from the Baes**"
Awarded GOLD MEDAL AddejMSS
beating all other gfß»’
Ut Prise Great Oentennial BxhlW®
o*n be used for OonanmptiqWi
Gout, eto. Posted to any address. .
Manufactory : Ocm&gffi 3*®*T
Sydney LDepot : 227 ELIZABJ^
Sold by all Qhemigt*^^;
DB.
L.X.O.P.
Kdln., L.K.O.S. a»« *
Great Britain, and
reglatcred in Great Britain, and **kl»
late Burgeon to AAA PrineeM
Keiident Medical Officer to the **• »U
London, speoiallit for the treateneps
and Heart Diseaaea, 3co.
Oonanltation by letter or
shame, at Edgar Haute, Me. B,
Hunter-street Sydney.
in e very f*!s®
hihsallng virtues of these grand ii* - !**®
wgnSssS by thousands of »a«ersis. BJL Iffi
Unseat* of humanity thel* beaeissnl ."Tisißr f*
nlty thel* benseeens
legnised. Fullest dlraetlonsars
aveiy dtoease IF YOU fS
(aetuisd only at 18 Hit r
shaasrs should look to the Label «* Jf*m*r*
If ths address Is nst 181 Oxford-slrM"
spurious.
tr if
ILLIAM BULLARD, 343 GEORGE ST
ranSp
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC.
Easels, Brackets, Purses, Card
n.Tf A
NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
Gases and Japanese Carles
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THE
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
I C T
B X
MELBOURNE
Richmond
Windsob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
ECHUOA ...
BEEOHW ORTH
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL
SALE
MARYBOROUGH
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
56 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aeachimann'a.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
HIGHLY
MAY BE OITAIMED-.il MELLEB TSil
Ml
ofl
Or. IF 1 - PICKLES <3a SOIfcTS, Ca,xrla,gf©
m THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
City Repositorys - - B, 7, S, 11 LATROBE STREET WEST, ■
Metropolitan Manufactory: 32, 34, 36 BRUNSWICK STREET, F
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
«*new table.—tontine policies with guaranteed mortuary dividends.—a policy ~~
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period or
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. tST Branches in all the Colonies and in the Unitid Kingdom.
UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE ’p
in the Event of Survived,
WIESENER’S WATCHES!
WIESENER’S WATCHES!
WIESENER’S
W**
fully Tev toc
HAVE Droved a success as Useful and Reliable Timekeepers these 20 years. The reliable lines of the cheaper class Watches (m sterling Silver and Gold oases only) are mo net>
V and the Public can rely upon being served better and cheaper in the long run than in Ironmongers or Toy Shops, where the only aim oan be to 8 0
r ROTHERHAM and ENGLISH WATOB OOMPANY’SfJSILVER ENGLISH PATENT LEVERS, from ?os. «T WALTHAM WA
IflmnmriberZthe Address —
T. Watchmaker, Jeweller and Optician, 334 George-street, Sydney (half-way between Huntdf-stfdet and Post
