

The Bulletin
Vol. 9—No. 437.
SATURDAY, JUNE 10, 1888.
Price, 6d,
i ii
:<
i||p, \
“The Mixture.”
CHIEF JUSTICE DARLEY: “UGH! WHAT HORRID STUFF! WHAT IS IT?
DOC. PARKES: “O TAKE IT, IT WILL DO YOU GOOD. IT IS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED BY GOOD AUTHORITIES. IN FACT, IT IS THE FAMOUS
‘STAMPING-OUT' MIXTURE YOU HELPED TO PRESCRIBE AT JUBILEE TIME AT SYDNEY TOWN HALL.”
C. J. DARLEY: "THROW IT TO THE DOGS, I’LL NONE OF IT. IT IS FOOD FOR THE COMMON-PEOPLE, BUT IS NOT THE SORT OF THING FOR THE
SUPREME COURT.”


The Bulletin
TllB National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communication
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. P
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
ibsj£aUetca>
SATURDAY, JUNE 16, 1888.
Law or Violence.
Jt’s well enough agin a king
To draw resolves an’ triggers,
But Liberty’s a kind of thing
That don’t agree with niggers.
Things material and things immaterial cam
into concussion last week in Sydney, and th
visible embodiment of armed authority wen
d&wn almost without an effort. The silent fore
of written Law found its way blocked for
moment by the only concrete power on
which it was accustomed to rely for the en
forcement of its decrees ; impalpable Mine
was opposed by palpable brute Tyranny
mere ideal sentiment was brought into con
flict with physical strength and autocrati
violence ; and after an instant of hesitation
the entire paraphernalia of illegal force wa
brushed aside like a straw on the surface o:
a rushing stream. The statutes and the men
who build the statutes were arrayed in oppo
sition to each other, and the law-makers
found that the laws were stronger than they
Lhe Minister by whom judges are appointee
rose in resistance to the men whom he
elevated to their lofty stations,' and the
creatures proved greater than the creator
Probably, however, Parkbs mistook the
nature of the issue, for his mind is not fittec
to grasp great questions of abstract justice
For more than a quarter of a century Premier
Parkbs has laboured at concocting new sta
tutes—many of them foolish, nearly all of them
plagiarised, most of them crude and of ram-
shackle design, and doomed in the end to
prove hopelessly useless for their pur-
pose ; and in all that period he has never
learned that law is anything more than a
certain quantity of ink spread over an area
of paper, to be, filed away among the dusty
archives of the past and remembered or for-
gotten as may best suit the occasion. The
fact that law is but the feeble attempt of a
passing mortal to give expression to an ever-
lasting principle of justice—that the poli-
tician who smears new statutes on sheets of
parchment is but the creature of a day, while
the truths which he attempts to embody are
older than earth itself and will last when all
earthly politicians and insolvents have passed
away, is beyond his comprehension, and
having failed to learn the first principles of
equity in his youth and his manhood, he is
not likely to acquire them in the mental
feebleness of his old age and decay.
*
A chronic tendency to hit a small enemy
when he is down, and to borrow from a large
friend when he is up has led Sir Henry
Parkbs into many strange blunders, but few
of his errors have been so ignominious as
that which he made a few weeks ago, when
he put both feet down on Lo Pak and his
fellow-exiles from the land of the Sun. The
author of the Kiama Ghost has no reverence
for invisible enemies. To his myoptic vision
tlie battle lay between the autocrat of New
South Wales and a handful of friend-
less heathens, and with the full strength
of a popular cry and a servile Parliamentary
following behind his back his opponents
seemed too insignificant to be worth count-
ing. The silent influence of the law was on
the side of the majority of the Asiatic immi-
grants—the law which Parkes had himself
helped to construct, and which he was
pledged to support, but he controlled the
machinery by which alone the law could en-
orce itself, and without it the Supreme
Court of the colony was but an empty voice
speaking out of darkness. Power, apart
from brute force, Parkes has never been
able to comprehend. Under more favour-
able circumstances he would have been a
econd Man of December, and would have
raised himself to an imperial throne by
means of a coup d’etat, and maintained him-
self there by rifles and bayonets ; and, even
in his own limited sphere, he has always
been addicted to childish displays of military
force and latent violence. Barely twelve
months ago he called out the holiday show
of the New South Wales army to force a
democratic people to whoop for the Birming-
ham poet s beloved Queen, and the scanty
measure of success which crowned his efforts
on that occasion has apparently filled him
ever since with even more than his wonted
contempt for any law which interfered with
the exercise of his own will. But the de-
monstration of a year ago was conducted
under widely different conditions from the
riotous insanity which led to Parkes’s over-
throw at the hands of Lo Pak and his
countrymen. On the one occasion the ad-
ministrators of the law, instead of exerting
themselves to squash the senile politician’s
tacit challenge to bloodshed and insurrection,
were themselves involved to some extent in
his acts, and aided him in his efforts to create
public opinion with revolvers, knob sticks,
and the iron-shod feet of pugilists and foot-
ballers ; in the other case Parkes stood
alone, with only the revolvers and knob-
sticks behind him, and the power of brute
"orce suddenly collapsed.
The mandate of the Supreme Court of
New South Wales, which practically crumbled
Parkes’ melodramatic Chinese policy in the
dust, was couched in language such as has
seldom been levelled by a Judge at any
legislative authority—yet it was only lan-
guage, and justifiable language, after all.
In the very moment of issuing an imperative
command for the release of 15 Mongols who
were imprisoned by Parkes’ orders in de-
fiance of the existing laws, Chief Justice
Darley stated that the Court had no visible
adequate means of enforcing its decrees, and
in the same breath he bade the autocratic
Premier disobey at his imminent peril.
“ Without armed guards or any ostentatious
display—with nothing but its common law
attendant, the sheriff, and its humble offi-
cials, the court-keepers and tipstaffs—it
derives its force from the knowledge that it
has the whole power of the community at its
back. This is a power unseen, but effica-
cious and irresistible, and on its maintenance
depends the security of the public.” And
on the strength of this invisible influence
the Court denounced the armed authority of
a lawless Government and informed the
prisoners whom it detained in custody that
the law practically placed the lives of their
gaolers in their hands :
“ We did not, though this law was present to the minds
of each and all of us, deem it expedient to bring it forward
upon the second occasion when these matters were before
us. Now, we are of opinion that, in view of the exaspera-
tion which may be produced in the minds of those ille-
gally imprisoned, it is incumbent upon us to do so in
order to point out to those who take upon themselves the
responsibility of acting illegally the great risk they run, as
so they place valuable lives in jeopardy in order
that their illegal mandates may be -carried out: The law
I s * hat A a . mal ?. illegally deprived of his liberty is
justified in taking life in order to obtain his liberty
Kl l- r i f ’\. UI f der . s f 1 . ch circumstances, is not murder, but is
justifiable homicide.”
Mind challenged matter, and the lofty
boaster who had defied the laws of his own
country and the external force of two em-
pires instantly succumbed,
* * *
Even now, however, it is doubtful if Sir
Henry Parkes has fully learned that the
Supreme Court is not a mere inferior
tribunal whose orders are possibly binding
on the soulless multitude but whose arm is
not long enough to reach to his lofty estate.
On two previous occasions the highest judi-
cial authority in the land has enforced the
release of a number of Chinese captives, and
has declared in effect that all Mongolian
emigrants who tendered the amount of the
poll-tax required by law were entitled to
land, provided their number did not exceed
that which their vessel was permitted to
carry ; and on each occasion the Premier
has grudgingly released the aliens to whom
the mandate directly applied, but has utterly
ignored the general principle by continuing
to detain other Asiatics who were held under
precisely similar conditions. At the very
moment when he backed down for thd third
time and tacitly acknowledged the inability of
arrogance and brute force to contend against
the moral influence of abstract justice he
covered his defeat by levelling coarse insult
at the supreme authority which had de-
nounced him as a reckless law-breaker, and
railed at its decisions as “ the greatest cant
in existence.” In his elephantine self-con-
fidence Parkes is equally ready to instruct
the supreme Court in matters of equity and
to give valuable information to Providence
regarding the construction of a new
system of immortality, and he would
draw up plans and specification? for an im-
proved description of soul at the shortest
notice. Even when he was abjectly caving
in to the letter, and meanly evading, as far
as he dared, the spirit of Chief Justice
Oakley's mandate, he filled the Assembly
with defiance, and announced his resolution
to ignore the mandates of the Court “as
before ; ” and thus the weary duel goes on
between an ignorant boaster on the
one hand and the entire judicial
system on the other. Where the end may
be cannot yet be seen ; what it will be every-
one but Pakkes himself can tell. For
Parkes there are only two courses—either
he must submit or he must fall ; and in the
method of his fall there are two roads—
either he will collapse into dismal obscurity
or he will be indicted as a wilful and per-
sistent law breaker and a tyrant whose
oppression has passed the limits at which
endurance is possible.
* * *
In his senseless struggle with law and jus-
tice Parkes upholds no principle—except
the principle that Parkes can do no wrong.
Among the crowd of immigrants whose
arrival suddenly changed the Chinese ques-
tion into an imbecile Chinese panic, a great
number were not legally entitled to land in
New South Wales on account of glaring
frauds connected with their naturalisation
certificates, and another large section were
disqualified as being in excess of the comple-
ment which their ships were allowed to carry.
The small remainder of the yellow heathen are
only a drop in the ocean as compared with the
hordes which Paßkes has permitted to enter
the colony in times past, in utter contempt
of the restrictions provided by existing
laws ; and out of the swarms which are re-
ported to be en route for Australia it is prob-
able that hardly one in five has any legal
claim to set his heathen feet on the shores of
New South Wales, The Bill which is
now passing through the New South
Wales Upper House is likely to re-
duce the Chinese difficulty to manage-
able proportions for the brief remainder of
Parkes’s political existence, and then the
question of total expulsion will be relegated
to better hands—in worse hands it could not
possibly fall. Therefore, the ostensible ob-
ject of the eminent Australian muddler is
merely to prevent the temporary addition of
a few score Asiatics to the thousands whom
he has already permitted to overrun the land,
and on the strength of this miserable pre-
tence he strikes a paralytic attitude before a
listening world as the one firm man in a
tottering continent. Yet it is difficult to
suppose that Parkes has any desire to see
his own measure passed into law with any
undue haste. While it remains in suspense
he appeals to two hemispheres to gaze upon
the god-like person from Brummagem,
who bears an afflicted earth upon his
shoulders ; and he is in no hurry to lay the
earth down and take a rest. Already he
has begun to drop obscure hints about a
long conflict with the Legislative Council
over its amendments to the new Restriction
Bill—amendments which have done much to
remove the suspicion of raving insanity
that formerly hung over that ill-starred
measure, and while this conflict lasts the
degrading struggle between the law and the
demagogue who is hired to guard it will go
on for the honour and glory of Henry
Parkes. This is the only plausible explana-
tion of the old man’s conduct, but there are
two other possibilities which have probably
escaped his notice. His courage, so far, has
broken down miserably every time it was
wanted, and the time cannot be far off when
this same abject poltronery will end in
utter collapse. And if, by any chance,
Parkes’s courage should prove more endur-
ing than the patience of the judicial
authorities, it is more than possible that a
power may be invoked which will, in one
single act, abolish Parkes .as a political
force for ever and ever.
si ■ *
The principle involved on the side of
the New South Wales Supreme Court
has little or nothing to do with Woo
Tin and his miserable associates. The
irony of fate has made an accidental
heathen the subject of a battle which, if lost,
w ill make it no longer worth any one’s while
to be a white man on the golden shores of
the last-discovered Continent, but Woo Tin
himself is only the leaden counter with
which the game is played. The question at
issue is whether the authority of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales re-
quires to be upheld by military force, or
whether its mandates are of sufficient ac-
count to be obeyed w ithout any visible armed
authority to lend them a fictitious weight.
The position assumed by Parkes declares
that law r rests with the strongest; that the
power which commands police and soldiers
is superior to any judicial decree; that
equity lies with the big battalions, and that
the liberty of any citizen, white or yellow,
Australian or alien, is at the disposal of any
Government which has an object to serve in
consigning him to prison and force sufficient
to keep him there. It is an attempt to re-
store the era of animal violence by which
England was governed in the dark days of
the past, and on the fate of the unclean
idolators who are now confined in defiance
of the laws of an alleged civilised State great
issues depend in which Woo Tin and his
countrymen have no part. Noxious, repul-
sive, and objectionable as they are, a ques-
tion of national liberty is now bound up with
these invaders from the shores of the Yellow
Sea, and their expulsion, except by fair and
lawful means, ‘will lay the foundations of a
throne in Australia for some other despot
from Brummagem.
Freetraders’ Tricks—How they Work the
Oracle.
Figures, we know, can lie, and statistics be made
to prove anything. Yet the Foreign-trader ever
insists on trotting out a tangled mass of doubtful
statistics, which he warps and twists and turns
and plays general battledore-and-shuttlecock with
till he succeeds, to his own contentment in
showing that two and two make five. The most
grotesque statements are furbished up in a vague
attempt to prove the correctness of his self-dubbed
logic.
# * #
Last year, for example, in instituting invidious
comparison between New South Wales under
J reetrade and Victoria under Protection the
Jforeign-trade advocates gravely asserted through
their paid mouthpieces that New South Wales
must be the more prosperous of the two, seeiim
that her grog-bill exceeded that of her neighbour"
bunny reasoning, this ! The same Apostle of the
True ]< aitli next triumphantly pointed to our
extravagant expenditure as proof positive of our
greater capacity to squander. This fanatic, how-
ever did not deign to note in the same breath that
our debt was infinitely heavier. That if we drank
more and fooled away more cash, we had to thank
the credulity of the London money-lenders for the
splurge. 1 reetrade New South Wales, we were
told, was to grow all her own wheat in a year or so
more, to the dismay of the beggared farmers in
Victoria, who were being crushed out of existence
neath the wheels of that Juggernaut, Protection
All such and simdar wanton statements naturally
drew a smileeven from the knowing ones amongst
the elect, flhis year the self-di-:covered growth of
New South Wales manufactories provides g material
for another Freetrade paean.
It is peculiar that the Calico-Jemmies will not
admit the true facts of the case regarding th c se
factories to which they pomt E 0 triumphantly
rw!l v a ww e7 L Wlia V s the amount of
Capital What is the ratio of employment used in
those which live and move and have their being '
under Protecting clauses in our tariff, in pro,,or?
tion to those Lilliputian concerns that manage to
eke out a scanty living in spite of Freetrade ?
Af ter probing this question, a man must be either
wilfully blind, or woefully dunderheaded, if he
cannot see the flimsy fallacy of the Foreign-trade
Srjf**. **»r those facto rif s
directly or indirectly, enjoy gome meed of Pro-
tection, and the balance makes a very sick showing.
Of all New South Wales manufacturing in-
terests, that which has the largest amount of
Capital invested is undoubtedly the sugar' in-
dustry. On it the tariff levies a duty of Is. and
bs. Bd. on imported raw and refined, respectively
Then sugar provides treacle and molasses, also en-
joymg a protective duty of 3s. 4d. Throw off
these duties, and where would the New South
\\ales sugar industry be? The colony would
be left to the tender mercies of yellow-agonv
China or bounty-fed Europe, But fdlow
this matter a step further. The imposition
of these duties has caused the erection of nigh
half-a-hundred sugar mills on the Northern rivers
Their machinery, to a large extent, hailed from
Sydney foundries The industry has sent up tlm
value of cane lands on those rivers from sav 30s
tonearer £3O. The steamers plyingTand ft
find profitable freights for increasing fleets The
consumption of coal helps the pockets of the New-
castle mine-holders, and they and the steamship
companies pay their regular dividends from the
same source.
* * *
Then sugar means rum, with the GO odd casks
needed each week, giving employment to coopers.
The inland cities commerce, all flowing Sydney-
wards, is multiplied to a degree. The huge re
finery at Pyrmont, born out of the same Protec-
t!ye policy, provides work for a thousand bread
winners, and rents for landlords who would other-
wise have to stare at tenantless houses.
Again, take kerosene, another protected indus-
try likewise gieefidly pointed out and classed
unblushing in the catalogue of manufactories?
which exist under the free fiscal policy of
the country. How in the name of logic could
South Wales ever compete for an hour
with the natural petroleum wells of America
were it not tor the . protective duty of fid
per gallon ? Then, too, as with sugar, there
are the side-channels of employment indirectly
concerned. Kerosene factories require machinery
to run them. The necessity for tins and case?
employs tin and tinsmiths and timber-getters and
saw-mills Yet we are led to infer thlt all these
are 1 reetrade industries !
*
Where would be those biscuit-factories in Sydney
and IS ewcastle if the friendly import tax of 1 d uer
b. were w,ped off ? Where would be the cam ?
factories, which, notwithstanding the bitter hoi
S L°S T fe tedffiiportershi S h up in office
m the Chamber of Commerce, produce a cheaper '
and better article than the imported
though the duty has by the aCve men
tioned means been reduced to Id ? Equal y
do the protected galvanised-iron and wire-netting
makers appear in the same light. Butter and
cheese factories are likely to play a leading par
in our exporting industries ere long. Yet who has
forgotten the cry that went up when Parkes ven-
tured to remove the duty, only to put it on again
as a sop to the ballot-box! Where would this
industry, then, be without a Protective duty ?
* * *
Take the last-born manufacturing industry—the
two fruit-preserving companies. Could they
stagger along under Freetrade and compete
against America, without their Id ner 11 1
io%»! It i» thei. o“ly P SISiK.n
Could the maizena company exist another hour
against the foreigner, without Protection ? How
long would it take to force the paint-factories to
put up their shutters if the Freetrade craze struck
off the 3s. per cwt. import duty? Fashionable as
it has ever been to hound down anything of
- Co 1 ? 111 ?. 1 manufacture, it needs no stretch of
imagination to foresee the doom of colonial seda-
crystals in the event of the 20s. per ton protection
being removed. Handicapped as they are b?
nature and river obstructions, what would be the
lot of our sawmills, and with them the army of
timber-getters, if foreign timber were admitted
free? Yet, while this manufacturing industry i*
pomted at as an instance of the growth of New
bouth Wales, if Foreign-trade furies had thei?
own sweet will they would blot out from the tariff
this duty and claim they had rendered noble
service to their country-which, to tbemmeans
the importenng firms of Sydney. ns
* * *
Y hat candy and confectionery factories could
these nimble figure-jugglers gloat over as further
e\ idenees of the wise policy of jNTpw
WhiLft Protection were banished ?
HP these alleged political economists who
flit about m the airy realms of fancy, would doubt?
less fiddle with fiendish delight over the burtong
of every tobacco-factory in the country-it L thl


slight discriminating duty in favour of the locally
grown tobacco that just keeps that ind ustry from
tottering in a heap of ashes to the ground. Anc
yet all these and more are used as proofs of the
success of manufacturers under the beneficent
influence of Freetrade !
* * •
It would take much space and time to finish
the list. A few small “factories,” in which
horses are shod by local industry—because it
would not pay to export the animals each time a
new set of shoes were wanted—and other small
repairs executed, would be about all that re-
mained for New South Wales to boast of when
the long catalogue of incidentally protected in-
dustries was exhausted. Perhaps some day, when
amateur statisticians learn to tell the unvarnished
truth, they may be induced to publish a handbook
showing the sources of wealth in New South
Wales which have grown up and flourished under
the fostering influences of Freetrade. It will be a
cheap and inexpensive pamphlet, and it will deal
chiefly with pawnbroking, politics, and the art of
unloading foreign-manned ships at Circular Quay
with a few remarks on the subject of Chinese
cabbage-raising. Beyond this, things are pretty
nearly a blank.
The Case of Mrs. Rappiport.
Mks. Marie Rappiport, wife of a Victorian J.F. ;
was sniffing the briny down at Mornington in
January last. Mrs. Simon Fraser (wife o'f the
gentleman who commissioned Millais to paint
his portrait) was also engaged in the same health-
giving occupation, and it came to pass that she
went to the public baths for a dip. During the
dip Mrs. Fraser’s watch and chain were taken
from her dressing-box and were seen no inbre
until they turned up on Melbourne “ Block ”
with Mrs. Rappiport attached. The police
arrested the latter lady, and then she committed
an act of foolishness which is very common with
her sex—in offier words, she made a statement at
a time when she should have said nothing, and the
statement, if fairly reported, was as open and
complete an acknowledgment of guilt as any lan-
guage well could be
“Just as I was leaving the baths my little nephew
came running after me, crying out ‘ Auntie, look what I
have found,' produoing the watch and chain. I asked
mm how he got them, and he replied, ‘ 1 found them
hanging on a nail in one of the dressing-rooms.’ I told
him to take them away, and he did so, but returned with
them and I took them from him. When I got to the
hotel I heard about Mrs. Fraser having had a watch
stolen, and as Mrs. Fraser was a rich woman, I con-
sidered I might as well keep them. Had they belonged
to a poor person, I should have returned them. I saw
the name Fraser on the pass (free rail way-pass granted
to Mr. Simon Irasbr, as M.L.C.), and 1 fluuo it from the
pier into the sea.” ■ -
But the allegations of the police added a still
uglier complexion to the case. According to these
officials, Mrs. Rappiport “foxed” about the
baths and personally took the jewellery while its
owner was in soak. Be that as it may, however
Mrs. Rappiport was admittedly guiloy- if we are
to assume that her words were correctly set down
and that she knew what she was saying when she
uttered them.
* * *
When the police-court hearing came on a great
surprise was the result. The bench was crowded
by 18 unpaid justices of the peace who had come
to assist Police Magistrate Call in arriving at an
impartial decision, and in the multitude of coun-
Cl j 1?! was, to view the affair charitably,
muddle and stupidity. Few of them knew any
law worth speaking of—the unpaid justice, in
■fact, isn t expected to know any law; none of
them had any particular experience, for the ordin-
ary Melbourne J.P. rarely rolls up on the bench
except when a sensational case is in progress,
and the dull routine of plain unvarnished
drunks is left to the stipendiary official. These
thirteen honorary justices were mostly gentlemen
moving more or less in the same station of
life as the accused, and liable to be influenced by
conscious or unconscious sympathies on her ac-
count, and either by their sympathies or‘their
ignorance they hampered the proceedings till a
miserable break-down finished the affair. Mrs.
Rappiport wasn’t there, and a crowd of doctors
swore that she couldn't appear under any circum-
stances. Since the police touched her on the
shoulder and said, “ You’re wanted,” this
poor creature had become so mad that she would
die if they brought her into Court. Any further
reference to that watch and chain would have
resulted in her death. Ordinary men have been
hanged when they were mad and sentenced to
imprisonment for life when their lives
were in danger from disease, and common
offenders, it they are too ill to be tried
are generally sent .to the gaol hospital
until they are well enough to be formally hauled
up, but these measures only refer to people of no
social importance. The 13 bewildered beaks
apparently wanted to discharge Mrs. Rappiport
right off on the report of her own doctors, without
waiting for any corroboration whatever, but the
pohee with difficulty obtained permission from
the honorary magistrates to have her e xamined by
their own medical authorities, and the Law ad-
journed to think the matter over.
* * *
There was another mighty rush of justices at
the second hearing,,and still no prisoner. Mrs.
Rappiport continued to be “mad,” and strangely
enough the doctors engaged by the prosecution
didn t furnish their report in time to prevent the
invisible prisoner from being discharged by the
Bench, The baffled police then found that their
doctors didn’t anticipate Mrs, Rap import's decease
if she was brought into Court, so they obtained a
summons and renewed the- attack a few days
later. This time Mr. Call was backed up by
only 11 colleagues,,but the result was the same
as before. Mrs. Rappiport came to the Co -rt
in a miserably bewildered condition, doctors gave
confficting evidence, as they usually do, the pro
secution made out the strongest prima facie ca e
on record—and the Bench dismissed it on tie
ground that the prisoner didn’t know what she
was about. In reality it was the majority of the
eleven amateur magistrates who didn’t know what
they were about ; if Mrs. Rappi port’s own con-
fession amounted to anythintr, she knew her way
round better than the Bench had ever done,
Two prosecutions having failed, the State has
now taken the matter up, and Marie Rappiport
is to stand her trial before a criminal court. This
is the last and worst blunder of all. The State is
responsible for the system which allows a crowd
of justices to hamper and obstruct the
course of- law and to make the statutes
of no account it is responsible for the
folly which permits the bench to be rushed by
nmii who rarely or never take a hand in t’:e, ad
ministration of justice unless some personal in-
class interest is involved ; and now, instead of
for ever abolishing the right of the average
J.P. to interfere with the duties of the paid
magistrate—dn a word, instead of giving effect
id the unchallengeable principle that no man or
class can be a competent judge in his or its own
cause, the Government goes out of its way to
catch one unhappy woman whom its own policy
has allowed to escape. The Victorian Govern-
ment built up a legal policy, and now, in common
fairness, it should accept the verdict of the court
which it has itself created. It has accepted its
verdict in scores of cases where innocent persons,
have suffered wrong through the incompetence
and ignorance of the men who are called justices
chiefly because they are strangers to the first prin-
ciples of justice, and, having done so, it has no
visible right to complain though one guilty person
may escape The glaring stupidity of the system
I by which Marie Rappiport avoided even a
lormal trial, and the public outcry which ensued
have aroused the Government to a course of action
so unusual that they now appear to the multitude
as_ pledged to procure her conviction, and the
prisoner having been treated with undue lenience
in one court now stands a chance of being treated
with undue severity in another.
* • *
As a rule an Australian stipendiary magistrate
can be trusted to do his duty by committing
any prisoner against whom a prima facie case
has once been made out. Now and then, as
in the Sutton-Deerhurst case, the paid dis-
penser of law proves himself unreliable and
unconsciously prejudiced, but in such in-
stances the remedy is clear—if the man who is
hired to promote justice is unfitted for Ids duties
his position and Ins salary must be given to some
one else. The faults and shortcomings of the
practised magistrate cannot be remedied by a sys-
tem which enables an influential prisoner, should
he feel so inclined, to rouse up the apprentice
magistrates of his acquaintance to sit on his case
and get him off scot-free. In this matter New
bouth Wales for once led the way for reform, but
V ictona still clings to the old path. Just as in
bydney, a few years since, the teetotal magistrates
used to rush the bench at the hearing of cases
m which publicans were involved, so now
as ever m Melbourne, the tradesman hears
tns brother tradesman’s case and nullifies
the bhops and lactones’ Act by imposing
a shilling penalty where a fat bourgeois has
kept his establishment open and his slaves at
work beyond the legal hour. As Marcus Clarke
once caustically remarked in The Bulletin
apropos of the appointment to the honorary
bench of a notorious usurer who used to invade
'he seat of alleged justice whenever it was
accessary to uphold the good cause of shixtv
oer shent, “ Whenever some poor devil
Usputes a pawnbroker’s account for a
hedged waistcoat the bench looks like Pelican
sland in the breeding-season by reason of the
nultitude of beaks hanging over the railings.”
When the ordinary justice appears on the
>ench it too often means that he has
ome to get a prisoner convicted or to get a
.nsoner acquitted, and these objects are
qually fatal to the equitable administration of
he criminal code. The justice which is thus
istnbuted is a gratis commodity, and like most
ommodities which are given for nothing it is
'•orth exactly what is charged for it. The caie of
Rs. Rappiport ought to have led to the imtant
bohtion of this vicious system, but the subjection
t that miserable woman to a third trial, even if
■ results in her ultimate conviction, will make the
a ministration of the law no more pure than it is
, present. It would have been better far to
t the prisoner escape a dozen times than to
■rain the forms of law in order to secure her
mishment while leaving the road open for
milar or even worse abuses in obscure cases in
ie future. Possibly at some future day, when
[arie Rappiport, if really guilty, may' be ex-
ating her offence in gaol, the same Bench of in-
■pables that ordered her discharge will b=> help-
gto blunder away the liberty of some innocent
■isoner with the same fatuous self-confidence
Inch marked their dealings with the possessor of
rs. Simon Fraser s lost jewellery.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New South Wales Legislative Council.
A correspondent sends the following able letter
ggeStlonS l thol ? gh PPB feibl y capable of
4 f ’ ?5 em t( ? P° mt to the only reliable
method of anting the present obsolete legis
t. 1 ve system to the requirements of the day
An attack is about to be made on that assemb
2* V :?™ antiquities which is called the Ne
South Wales Legislative Council. It is scarce
neceisary to say that we hold the people to bo t le
rightful originators of all political power, and tha;
any legislative or executive body which does n
exist by virtue of the popular choice is ananoma y
m a Democracy. The Bulletin has in one for
or another, been affirming this truth for years
is because we want the voice of the people to
omnipotent that we ask the would-be reformers
pause to consider before they press their attack.
As now constituted, the Legislative Counc
though enjoying in theory almost co-ordinat
functions with the Legislative Assembly, ha
practically not a shadow of real power whe
not supported by public opinion. It «
true it has often rejected measures whic
Liberalism supports ; yet, except in the cas
of the Chinese Restriction Bill, it has never ver
tured to make a serious stand in opposition to th
deliberately expressed will of the people. Whereve
the Assembly has been supported by an unmis
takable expression of public opinion the nominee
have bowed, because they have felt, what every
one knows that their existence is only oh suf
ferance. if, however, we substitute for th
nominee system the elective principle we im
mediately originate true power, and power that
will make itself felt by Lghtiug’qualitfes If the
franchise for and the period of existence of the
I- pper House were to be made co-extensive with
those of the Assembly, we would obtain two
Chambers so similar that one would plainly b<
redundant as a mere copy of the other. If,again, the
upper House rested on an equally wide electoral
basis, but had a longer life than the Lower House it
would immediately become more powerful than the
latter, and in time wouldovershadow it. If. however
the franchise of the Upper Chamber be restricted
Vi™ P™ pert y qualification, a worse evil ensues.
Men like to have a visible, evidence that they
possess power which others do not. <1 vc the
a power in the political
wm .n T hl i 1 their assistants do not possess and
you make them conservatives at once--conserva-
tives of their own little preserve. It is to the
working in a thousand small spheres of this smali
factor that the strength of the oligarchical or con-
servative party in Victoria is due. We do
not want an aggressive or powerful Tory fac-
on in New South Wales, and that be ini
the case we must take particular care
not to establish any property qualification
in the elective senate of the future. If a change
must be made before the Republican principle
takes such deep root in New South Wales as to
be able lor. ever to laugh at the workings' of
Toryism, there is only one way in which we
can obtain an elective Upper House that will
not be antidemocratic. This Assembly must
be chosen by manhood suffrage and the whole
colony must vote as one constituency. To
prevent it from being too strong it' should
not contain more than a third of the number
of members of the Primary Assembly and should
Snit' XC T*] Wll £ th T e T special consent of the
Speaker of the other House, have the right of in-
measures. In return for this curtail-
ment of power it should not be liable to dissolu-
tion, biit should continue during the full period
for which it was elected, and this should
ml Tn ally Wlth the legislative Assembly
f % ee Allowing it to last
the full period it was elected for would
make it independent of Government; while the
comparatively limited tenure of its existence
would keep it in touch with the people. But the
great advantage of the system would be that none
but men of wide popularity would have a chance
by the whole colony, and men so
wn? I ha T in S no road-and-bridge interests to serve
would look at every question from a State point
of vmw, and not merely as the Assembly men too
wl 1 C Tw from standpoint of some one-horse
town. The great disadvantage of the proposed
Senate would be that it would draw many of the
best men from the Assembly, but putting this
against the great benefits of the proposal, it
may be fairly said it is the only change from the
present system that cannot eventually end in
today g Canservatlsm ten times stronger than it is
+
The Oils lied Agriculturist*.
Oxim more Mr. Pulsford uplifts his voice in
•small type in the columns of the unwieldy S. M
Herald to point out the hidedusness of Pro-
tection and the beauties of Foreign-trade, and
as usual his closely-printed brick is levelled
at the head of Victoria. The moss-grown
worm-eaten flam about the poor Victorian
who is ground down by the exactions of a
benighted Government has long since burst, for
RvHwl proved beyond dispute that the
rreasur y of South Wales swallows
Tl e per h, ‘ ad of the population
Vimnrln’i fi t i°/ U , PPOrt the administration of
Victoria s fiscal darkness ; but Mr. Pulsford
i f ba fl dons the old bne of argument
in which figures are available for reference
“'J® off lnto the undefined realm of
S t e u economy, where statements are
based on the vague calculations of somebody
whose name is not given, and whose authorities
are judmiousiyieft out of sight. He writes with
his accustomed vigour :—•
“T/actmeir under a protective tariff takes ad-
vantage of it to increase his own price. When a nrotec-
tive duty of anything like 25 per cent, is established we
KT 0 ! th - e l0 i? al manufactu rer, and not the Customs
mSf Ro llon 3 sh l re of the taxation ; and it is difficult
to tell ho w manvMiousand pounds are paid to the manu
the United Suites thousa . nd obtained by the Customs. In
hl i! dS “ etlme :i "° was calculated that
£200 P 00( 000 e th e tfp yinB: £ f 4o >l )o0 ’ 000 t 0 the Customs and
tin’“il is h“aw” erS ' Wh,d h e comparison
Si th “ n « ver occurred to us in the way
“ r/l! put ,. 3 lt ’ and naturally we feel staggered.
tn It r. ™ am f actu l' er under a protective duty
.1 rll vantagc °{ lt , to increase his own prices.”
Naturally enough he does when he gets the chance
which is simply until the time arrives in a few
years when internal competition reduces prices as
low as external competition possibly could. In
the Lmted htates at present, according to that
Snlkl authority, Mulhall, the cost'
aga ns” g 1« giA ad ‘ d ? y I° r each inhabitant,
me cJ id - m ; En^land > a nd, at the same
7 rate of wages is set down as
S; M S ii per . we S, k higher in protected
Ainerma than in I reetrade Britain, from
which we gather that a long course of
i ,ldi eC A 10n a - nd mtern;ll competition has at once
made American prices much lower and Ameri-
can wages much higher than those of the
glorious mother-land. Consequently, it an-
liears that if the American manufacturer is rob-
bing the nation of £200,000,000 annually gome
other undefined circumstance incidental to Pro-
tection which Mr. Pulsford thought it best not
to mention, makes up the loss, and leaves the op-
pressed citizen of the Republic nearly 50 per cent,
b -tier oil than his English brother. Strangely
enough, too, the extortionate Yankee manufac-
turer now undersells the fortunate Englishman in
his own country, and is fast reducing what were
once the fine t iron districts in the world to a
blackened desert and Victoria, in its relations to
Aew bouth Wales, is treading the same path,
ihe explanation in this instance probably is that
the manufacturer and the importer are built of
the same clay, and each takes advantage of mono-
poly while it lasts. As an example of the vil-
Hiny of the former class the Pulsford tells a
pathetic tale of how, in Victoria, a member of the
inflated tribe winch owns big brick factories and
pays wages to hundreds of workmen recently
charged £24 for a locally-made chaff-cutter
whmh could have been imported from Eng-
and for £U In a blessed Freetrade country,
on the other hand, a merchant would have im-
ported the chaff-cutter and charged £->4 for it
until a manufacturer started to employ the local
workman m the construction of the same article,
a nd then he would have reduced his price to £2O
until the constructor was insolvent, after which he
woukl have demanded £24 as lief ore • but in a
blighted Protectionist land the fiendish manu-
facturer gets his £24 right off, and divides the
largest part of it among his work-people who
would otherwise be unemployed, and laughs a
hyaena-like laugh over his iniquity and wallows in
CUII m i fl ie ew Smith Wales manufacturer
would do the same if he got the chance, but, as a
rule, lie doesn t. A few of these sons of Belial
struggle along by virtue of the incidental protec-
tion granted by a Freetrade Government, and the
rest hang round begging for Government orders,
to be paid for with borrowed money, in order to
keep them from closing up. As a further example
of the blessings for which New South Wales has
to return thanks, Mr. Pulsford quotes from the
wail of a squashed Victorian as follows :
“One of the proposals made at the conference was to
form jomt-stook flourmill companies. We have one in my
district, and I hold an interest in it. A fortnight a«o I
got an estimate from Messrs. Ganz’and Co. of the cost of
nttmg our mill with the steel rollers imported by that
V hl ° h ai’e not made in the colony. The small plant
I required would cost £BOO, and the import duty is about
s'yP. er . ce " t -,. ‘, If yourmiil were in New South Wales or
couth Austra la, said the courteous manager, ‘it would
cost you £2OO less.’ Is it any wonder that New South Wales
has gamed in population over Victoria 270,000 during the
last 10 years ? Theaoomr all we farmers go there, or
somewhere else, the better for us, I think.
We submit humbly, and in a crushed sort of war
attl.B point, that .Mr. Pulsford has underrated
the blessings of his own favourite policy. In the
h reetrade colony ot New South Wales his abject,
trampledmn agriculturist would have saved not
only the £2OO duty, but the £BOO for the plant as
w ?“* .He would also have saved the cost of the
™ u ~in fact, lie wouldn’t have wanted any mill.
u Jni k m that joyous land are closing up already
and no one but an ass would build a new one
Sj f* V™. 6 when the farmers are sending
petitions to I arllament, as they did the other
day, pointing out that they cannot make even
a bare subsistence. New South WaTe S under
he l“S d Jf'Tf °' im“r“
her farmed f ler f ram and flour while
bung and are sold up, and it
they grow 2? lserab^ e la " d of Victoria that
„ y . s row ah the produce which the countrv
SKtuT’-f ov " to sell tothehS
wonlH iV th f, mothf ; i; colony. And not only
would the gentleman for whom Pulsford weep*
and the V dut the PnC n °£ th 9 lnill and the machinery
and the duty as well, but he wouldn't have needed
to pay the men to work the mill, and they could
have gone and been unemployed. gfo W
as the New South Wales farmers are
don’t °ne(.d of t Sight by Sported flour
ncy don t need to worry about mills. We
thfok Mr Pn r rsrn o p Call -^ >dy an ass > but we
v,, r ; Pumford might have seen this fact
hinn° l, t US the double to point it out t,,
The Vengeance of the Law.
Another New South Wales solicitor has gone
o sa^hf. 01117 to ° Dwyers, thafis
I)™ 7 ’ p\ haS - f gone off . the roll while still
f, lv ?‘, . tor haps if an ordinary citizen had done
the things which Mr. G. R. Scholls is alleged
to have done he would have gone to gaol instead
but lawyers don’t travel that road in the happy
regions of Botany Bay, The average, lawyer can
fRoV UP against a of his clients’ troubles, but
the circumstance which flattened out Mr. Nioholl^
A a fewlT” r id6nce ™ the Bankruptcy Court.
A few extracts ran, according to the newspaper
reports, something like this ‘
‘ ta? 1 a solicitor of this court. I knew Mr Ei lsmfhf
some lancl ?n Tssr / a ° ted , tor bim the purchase of
some lana in 188(i. In or about June 1886 Mr Fit-
the SMTmoneTV^ 28 / s " bein " fche ’ ba!an c® of
dul not pay that cheque to them
the bank at Mos«vnfp^ aS iJ ,ald to my general account in
drawn tw e , , ac ™unt was, i believe, over-
drawn at that time. I believe that Mr. Ells.mbrk had to
ss
|£H V 'verdict P 'or
and o w fTTv £ i 7 19s - I,b a 3 the amount of verdict
beliew the Je?dE Ml ’- i ?aovsoN gome of that money, i
els as the Ct "l as '^t 9 - Afterwards 1 paid Mr. Cale
tis, as the attorney tor Mr. Ferguson, who sued me for
the money. 1 paid the amount of the verdict into mv
account at the bank. The bank stopped my ove’draf ,
1886 ; . I know Mrs. Margaret Wills. She was the
husband ra She L* M - r> Brkhnard . who was her former
ftusband. She has since married Mr. Milks f anted as
sohcitor for Mr. Bresnaed’s estate. The sum of I2OS was
received upon an insurance-policy, and about £2O or
besides. I received the £2OO from the society The
Wn°iT~ F a •a'w “ y accollnt m usual way. Mrs
, ,I ‘l' S ' vas ndmuiistatnx of the estate. That £'<>oo tca<t nit
7- Pport 'rf 1 believe 1 P a id he/ but £B5 ofH
The a, ‘ tle balalice a t intervals thereafter!
J ne rest of the money ivds used by me,”
The common commercial sinner who acknowledged
that he had been entrusted with £2OO - the sole
twn P t°b ? ? % P f°f wid 9 w ~ and had annexed nearly
two-thirds of it for Ins own purposes, would as a
ment be hi e f teilCe r •? Sl 9 ash rocks for the Govern-
ProbaWv/tLT i Clt -° r ‘f a P ri L vi , individual,
irobably (the fat pig always being well-greased)
l-t I s because he has more opportunities
[” f ? ud than other men that he is free from the
penalties attaching to ordinary defaulters, or else
the law considers that as his clients are in a great
s/'ffe' 1 !! 8 compelled to trust him they deserve to
suffer for doing what they can’t well avoid. The
legal system of New South Wales, we contend
regards things with an upside-down eye; ami
when a workman, who has few opportunities for
annexing other people’s property, lays his hands
with immense difficulty on a little loose change
he is punished at least ten times as heavily
with t f/e;i;f?, llCltor i u' h ° , a PP r °Priates £lOOO
facility, and has abundant chances for
doing the same thing again to-morrow, in spite of
the empty farce so regularly enacted by the
iTwv S ’ 1 ° r - ]t , IS well-known fact that the
lawyer who is struck off the rolls seldom stops
practising on that account, unless he is a much
greater ass than lawyers generally are. He
h(,l 7 mva some starving attorney and starts
afiesh in his name, and, as a rule, this pays him
better in the end than running his business openly.
U * °!i V - n lg “ oble cognomen is on the door-
plate he is directly responsible for any swindles
™ d r i ed ° n the premises, but when an indulgent
Court has struck his name off the rolls his dummy
bears tlm responsibility and he receives only the
enefits for his share. There is more than one
prosperous gentleman in New South Wales whose
affluence began on the day when the outraged law
forfeited his letters of marque as a pirate
and buried its indignant though empty censure
at his dishonoured head. And yet, despite
all things, it is only the other day that P we
witnessed in Sydney the horrible spectacle of a
Jmw I carte . r > a n . le . re y°uth, being sent to herd
with felons in gaol for a year and a half for Em-
bezzling 30 shillings paid him by those who had
bought bread from his master.
, v . Dr - J - J - Bir d, health-officer of Northcote
(Vie.), has discOTered a family in his jurisdiction
who have contracted a throat-disease from which
their hens were suffering, and a Melbourne paper
publishes the fact under the headline, “Beware of
the Birds . This is rough on the doctor.
The JST.S. \V T . silver boom has burst. The
trouble was caused by men selling shares who had
no shares to seU, and men buying those shares
who had no money to pay for them.
Dear Bulletin,-The Sydney metropoli-
tan police are about to recognise the services of
cmhan Beard, who rescued Constable Ridley
from a murderous attack by larrikins. What
humorists are the gallant men in blue! They
don t see the satire involved in civilians protecting
the police. W hen had a civilian an opportunity
of testimomalising the constable who protected
him in Sydney? Mr. Wall, M.P., may 6e able to
solve this conundrum,—XX. 10
~ T aS n ° i fce , d b 7 a S y dll ey paper last week
that the capita! value of the favourite silver mines
on VTT 1 the pnce of their
on Change had shrunk 122,000,000 during the
month of May and £7,000,000 since the mlmv
days when the bubble reached its greatest siz e y
pr f ?iat l°n fron - I \ nda y week to last Friday
in the estimated capital value of seven Mining
companies alone was £1,463,125. The Victoria!
official returns show that the yield of gold for the
S ter . en< h n S March 31 was 156,8170 z., or
ISB7 Thetlr f ° r period of
ISB7. The falling-off is attributable to the silver
cia/e having temporarily diverted attention from
S„T5' on , Brisbane Stock Exchange,
% rga .n S h re , S ¥ ve chan^ed hands at
£l3 16s. dd -—the total value of the mine at that
rate being £13,800,000! At Croydon (Q j the
crushings for May were 55240 z., making a total of
03,4960 z. this year. The Queensland mining
188« r of « f l°q9^ BB7 iL OW - a m i f Cre i SB over those of
been ilf 09“ ’ I'S for those years having
been -12.>,9200c. and 510,9980 z. respectively.


“ Keeping Shop.”
Major Dane, the popular American lecturer,
has been giving the people of New Zealand pearls
of wisdom regarding their own affairs. This is
apparently the easiest thing in life. “ Impres-
sions” are all that are wanted, and the more
unusual, illogical and absurd they are the better.
People like Sala, old Dion Boucicault, “Pen-
dragon,” Phil. Robinson, Archibald Forbes,
Carnarvon, Brassey, et hoc genus omne, can
always be relied upon to have a deal of notions
about countries of which they can possibly know
nothing. It is astonishing that England is not a
better governed place considering the appalling
amount of monumental wisdom which floats
around so often and nonchalantly in promiscuous
southern latitudes. But Major Dane’s “impres-
sions ” are not of this fatuous trade-mark. He
does not entirely belong to that order of man
who, though bereft of a shirt, is eloquent and eru-
dite concerning the best mode of starching a
collar. He is a phenomenal Yankee. He sits on
New Zealand, but he doesn’t exalt America. He
is the first from the States to admit that the work
is heavy and the wages are light. A man that
can be truthful about his own country may be
trusted xvith “impressions.” He says that Nexv
Zealand wants population—for the benefit of
lecturers, probably—and if it got this desirable
thing to the extent of about 15,000,000, it would
go ahead like xvild-fire. It apparently did not occur
to the Major that it would go ahead only while in
process of getting the maximum population it could
carry with ease and comfort. When it passed that
limit, New Zealand would present a similar pic-
ture to the world’s tired eye as the United States,
where, according to Major Dane, “ any number
of men could be got to work for ss. a day, and
many for less than that amount.” He must know
that a time would come when New Zealand, like
America, would be filled with legions of unem-
ployed and degraded “bummers,” dejected and
spirit-broken tramps—social wrecks stranded on
the shores of time by the fury of the struggle
for life and the waves of competition. For
under the present laws which regulate the ac-
cumulation and distribution of wealth the “colo-
nies” are bound to go through the same hideous
experience of grinding and merciless attrition of
social forces as the countries of the old world.
As population increased so would the price of land
increase, the price of rent, the price of food, the
price of life. Major Dane tells the young men to
work. Good, those who are there can now feather
the nest for themselves and their descendants.
The day of damnation would come when the
colony, having been all “ fenced in” and conserved
by the first comers, refused to bear the burden of
another soul to the army of stragglers who had
been left out in the division of the soil. Nay, it is
not necessary to wait until New Zealand’s popula-
tion numbers 15,000,000. The people of Maoriland
are eating the bread of bitterness already. Major
Dane says that there is “too much shop” in
New Zealand. How can it be otherwise ? People
must do something, and as the country has been
closed to ‘ legitimate occupation, and land is
traded in upon a purely speculative basis, they
“ keep shop,” This is not the reproach of New
Zealand alone. All the Australias are in the same
boat. The people who in New South Wales
“ keep shop,” ran the bonanza estates also ; the
banker and the softgoodsman are the squatters.
It’s all rubbish to tell the poor man to “go on the
land.” He simply makes it valuable for his
wealthy neighbour, who squeezes him out when it
suits him. The little farmer, like the little store-
keeper, can not compete with the Leviathan, and
competition, they tell us, is the life of trade. Very
likely; it is also the death of the small trades-
man. The Calico Jemmies of New South Wales
dabble in imports, they dabble in land also, and
finance in human agony. “ One crank drives
the whole of the complicated machinery, gentle-
men,” and that crank is the operation of all laws,
1 1 liman and inhuman, which permit the exploita-
tion of the great number of little men by a few
big men. The Foreign-trade importers who
govern the colonies want everybody else to work,
and let them “ keep shop.” It doesn’t matter,
they’ll be there all the same—we mean at the
small man’s funeral. If you are an insignificant
shopkeeper they will force you to put up your
shutters. If you take Major Dane’s advice you
will select a small farm, with no capital but your
muscles, and after a five years’ canter you will be
“ cleaned out ” under a foi’eign-trader’s bill of
sale.
Mr. M‘Sharry, a N.S.W. railway-con-
tractor, claimed £lOO,OOO from Government, and
spent £23,000 arbitration costs in getting a ver;
diet for £20,000 or so. Now he has to go to the
Full Court on the Crown’s plea that, as his claim
was reduced by the arbitrators by four-fifths, he
is not entitled to full costs.
The veteran Mr. Thomas Buckland, presi-
dent of the Bank of N.S. Wales, had his thigh
broken last Saturday by, being thrown from a
buggy while out driving in Sydney with his
daughter, the wife of Hon. Dr. Mackellar, who
fortunately escaped with little injury. It is
very doubtful whether at Mr. Buckland’s time of
1 ife he will make a good recovery.
Mr. Livingstone Hopkins, whose name
has," through the medium of The Bulletin car-
toons, become known all over Australasia as
that of a clever caricaturist and a genuine
pictorial humorist, has_ lately shown himself
to be as able with burin, scraper, and graver
of the practical etcher as hitherto with
pen and pencil of the artist. Mr. Hopkins con-
tributed a painting in oils to the last Syd-
ney Art Society’s Exhibition, of a scene "on
the Narrabeen Lagoon, and he has recently repro-
duced an effective etching of the same study. The
treatment-is thoroughly Australian in feeling, and
resembles almost any of those creeks south of
Newcastle in what of gloaming we have in tlxese
southern lattitudes. The motif is a boat almost
drifting down calm evening water. In it are two
fishermen; one sitting with the oars at rest in
the rowlocks, the other paying out the seine
xvhich xx'ill remain stretched across the lagoon for
the night’s take of fish. On either side, in the
m iddle distance, rise the sombre, furze and heather-
clad banks with their strong inflections against
the broad full effect of water-light given off by the
almost unruffled stream bathed in the mellow
glow which lingers but for a moment after sunset
in Australia. The etching is a great success and
worthily reproduces the original picture.
History of Botany Bay.
If we caxx conceive of a xvriter in cold
blood addressing himself to the compilatioxx
of a collection of tales of horror drawn fronx
all sources, it is not difficult to set dowxx a
list of the places fronx xvhich he might draxv
the materials for his gruesome axxd grisly
task. There are the tales of the slave-trade
in the Spanish settlements axxd ixx the
Southern States of America axxd on the
Guinea coast; the early excesses of the
French Revolution ; the felonry of Siberia ;
and the oubliettes and iron cages of the
feudal ages. Any of those will give the
ixxost avaricious sensationalist whatever he
may reasoxxably require, but for Australians-
there will xxever be axxy necessity to go out-
side their own borders, or beyond the limits
of their own brief history. It would indeed
be strange if a Governor had xxot at length
arrived to find the state of things he was
called to rule 'too much for his commonest
instixxcts of humanity.
• *
To get a clear view of the xxxerit of
Bourke’s action, it is necessary to look at
things for a xxxoment as he saw them.
The tales of coxxvict life at this time
had lost xxothiixg ixx cruelty while
events were progressing so far. The
period of Darling’s and Bourke’s rule is
fruitful in an abundant crop of harrowing
stories. There is one told by an eye-wit-
xxess which is so graphic and realistic that
we cannot do better than repeat it almost in
his own words. He xvas sent for oxxe day to
Bathurst Courthouse, he says, to identify a
man who was supposed to have been drivexx
by cruel treatment ixxto the bush from the
farm of which the persoxx quoted was one of
the overseers. On his way ixxto court he
had to pass the triangles, where the floggers
had been busy wieldixxg the lash incessantly
for hours. “ I saw a man,” he says, “ xvalk
across the yard with the blood that had xaxn
from his lacerated flesh squashing out of his
shoes at every step he took. A dog was
licking the blood off the triangles, axxd the
ants were carrying away great pieces 0 f
human flesh that the lash had scattered
about the ground. The scourger’s foot had
worn a deep hole ixx the grouxxd by the
violence with which he whirled hixnself
round on it to strike the quivering and
wealed back, out of which stuck the sinews,
xvlxite, ragged, and swollen. The infliction
Was 100 lashes, at about half-minute tixxxe, so
as to extend the puxxishment through 11 early
an hour. The day was hot enough to over-
come a man xxxerely staxxding that length of
time in the sun, and this was going oxx ixx
the full blaze of it. However* they had a
pair of scourgers who gave each other spell
axxd spell about, and they were bespattered
with blood like a couple of butchers.”
* • •
The photographic eye of this witness has
struck off a picture that xxxay stand at the
head off oxxr imaginary writer’s grisly collec-
tion. The idle triangles, and the dog that,
like those in the story of Jezebel, licked xxp
the xxexv spilled, blood ; the “ man ” xvho
has beexx tortured with the blood “ squash-
ixxg ” out of his boots as he xvalks away ; the
sinews standing out from his back, xvlxite
and ragged axxd swollen ; axxd the tell-tale
mark of the scourgcr’s foot—here xve have
all the features of a picture that should be
painted axxd hung on the walls of every Aus-
tralian ghllex’y of art as a popular educator
and aix historical and political lesson. There
is a passage in oxxe of Thackeray’s books
which speaks of the reading of certain old
familiar tales, the delight of “sweet girls axxd
their gentle mothers” who have followed the
adventures of' the hero and xvept and
smiled with the heroine froxxx one gexxera-
tion to another. But who xvill dare to tell
the stoxy of social life ixx Australia ixx a can-
did xvay for girls axxd gexxtlewomeix to read,
when it is xnade up of chapter’s such as this ?
Yet all this time, while every court-yard
witnessed sixch horror’s, sweet girls and
their gexxtle xxxothers xvere the daughters and
wives of the mexx xvho saxxctioxxed and ordered
these atrocities that had place every day
under xvomen’s axxd children’s uxxpitying eyes.
“ The fact is,” says the same speaker,
“ that such a sight is so coxxxnxon in this
country that xxo one thixxks anything of it. I
have seen youxxgchildrenpx’actisixxg floggixxgon
a tree, as childrexx in England play at horses. ”
That xv r as the xvay the system worked. People
grew accustomed to what they daily saw
around them, as we are accustomed to the
idea of a maxx beixxg strangled by process of
law. Children grew up to look upoxx what
they saxv as the natural axxd proper state of
thixxgs. The children of 50 axxd 40 years ago
are the decayixxg generatioxx of to-day. It is
oxxly xxatural and logical, therefore, axxd ixx xxo
wise stx’axxge axxd woxxderful, that so nxaixy of
the old coxxvict-period ti’aditions axxd spirit
survive amongst us still.
• ♦
These remarks quoted were published ixx
a certaixx magazixxe called “Meliora,” ixx
1861. Fronx the article we take also the
following little ixxstaxxce. It xvas a coxxxnxon
thing—and xxothiixg shows nxore clearly the
relentless bax-barity of the mexx who admin-
istered the law axxd exacted the last pound of
flesh the brutal regulatioxxs permitted—to
call the sanxe act by as nxaixy as five
different xxames in the charge, axxd for five
separate and distinct sentences to be passed oxx
the accused for that one act. Oxxe ixxstance
given is that of a convict servant of a certaixx
magistrate. Tins man had been given a
glass or two of spirits by a travelling
hawker. His master’s son, an ill-conditioned
Australian lad of the period and formed under
the system, began to curse and threaten the
servant. The man retorted. A constable
was at once sent for, and the convict, real-
ising his position and driven mad with
terror, knocked him down and escaped into
the bush. On his way he rushed into his own
hut and took with him, as his only provision,
three-fourths of a damper he had by him ready
baked. He was captured presently, as a
matter of com-se. The young slave-master
prosecuted him for drunkenness, insolence,
theft (for the piece of damper was regarded
as the master’s property until it was con-
sumed), and bushranging Then the magis-
trates made the constable prove the assault.
From the spirited proceedings of the young
man in this matter, and his ingenuity in
proving the charge of - theft, we may argue
that ho was a particularly apt pupil of Ixis
parents and guardians and a promising pro-
perty-holder in the future.
• •
This convict’s stoxy is worth following a
stage or two further. He was sentenced to
25 lashes for drunkenness, 25 for insolence,
50 for bushranging, six months in an iron-
gang for stealing the piece of damper, and
three months for assaulting a police-officer
in the execution of his duty. He got the
lashes and joined the chain-gang, accord-
ingly. While there he committed some
trilling offence, real or imaginary, for which
he was sentenced to receive more lashes.
But he had a regardful memory of his pre-
vious experience in this direction, so
he declined this further attention, and
again succeeded in decamping into the
bush. Here he found some bushrangers
this time, for his previous taste of the law
had leather dis .listed him of any closer ac-
quaintance. The bushrangers carried arms,
and he assisted in several robberies with
them. He was taken with arms in his
hands after a little, and adroitly hanged up
by the neck. He expired in that pic-
turesque attitude. “ The man was a quiet,
hard-working, honest fellow,” we are told,
‘ ‘ but he would not stand flogging and he
was fond of liquor. The crime he was
sent here for he had committed when
drunk, and it was perhaps the only
one he had to answer for. That
man was murdered ; and so hundreds
upon hundreds have been, and are being,
every year in this cursed country.” The
speaker was a labour-overseer, remember,
and was speaking of what he saw and knew.
* •
‘ ‘ Great tyranny was exercised even at the
seat of government; but in the thickly-
populated districts public opinion in some
degree shielded the convict from the ex-
tremity of oppression. ” It is no matter of
wonder, then, that the Vested Interest party
howled down any attempt to express public
opinion by free speech or by a free Press.
The cruelty in Sydney, though bad enough,
sank to a trifle when compared with the
cruelty perpetrated up the country. But
the system was the same, whatever its xnodi-
ficatioxxs might be. As instaxxces of this
there are cases like the following : “Here is-
an offence called by three different names,
three several charges are made upon it,
three several trials, three several sentences,
axxd three several punishments following. A
xnaxx gets drunk, has his clothes stolen, and
is .afraid to go home to his xxxaster. He is
tried first for drunkenxxess, a second time for
making away with his clothing, axxd a third
time for Absconding. His sentexxce is in sum
total 100 lashes, which, with the cat-o’-nixxe-
tails, is really 900 lashes. ” There is a man
mentioned here who received 2600 lashes in
five years, axxd another who received 1200
lashes ixx 12 months. The planet had little
ixx the way of real enjoymexxt to offer these
wretches after this.
* * *
These instances will ixxdicate what Bourke
found on his arrival. The Act for restrain-
ing magistrates from ordering more than 50
lashes to convict servants xvas imperatively
called for in the circumstaxxces. Yet that
Vested Interest class which xvas largely
forxxxed ixow of landed proprietors, xvas, as
usual, loud in its opposition. These people
clamoured loudly agaixxst their deprivation of
uxxlimited power, alleging that it was neces-
sary to keep the coxxvict elemexxt in check,
axxd to get fair xvork out of their white
labour. They threatexxed the colony with
impending anarchy and destruction, axxd a
genex’al rising on the part of the convict
populatiuxx. Thexx they set to work to pre-
pare petitions which were signed by nxaixy
magistrates axxd laxxded propxietor.s, and sent
to England, urging oxx the Home Authorities
the necessity that existed for their beixxg
granted ixxcreased poxver to flog and torture
the unfortunates xvho had been placed at
their xnercy by some cruelly xvhinxsical
caprice of fate. Their actioxx in this xxxatter
is significant of their xvhole attitude whexx
there xvas axxy question of progress or re-
form. Laxxg, xvlxose honesty is oftexx stroxxger
than his prejudices, states the position neatly
enough ; —“ It xx’as xxot civil axxd religious
liberty—that pearl of ixxestixxxable price ixx
the eyes of our forefathers ixx the early days
of emigration to America—for which these
Australian xvorthies petitioned ; it was for a
soxxxexvhat different species of liberty, the
liberty to lash; axxd long and deep xvere the
groaxxs they uttered through their favourite
organ xvhexx they found it dexxied them.”
* * *
For the same reasoxx Bourke reformed the
assigxxmexxt system, axxd curtailed materially
the amount of white labour any one pro-
prietor was allowed to own. The very fact
that under the new regulations 70 was the
maximum throws light on the state of things
existing in-connection with convict assign-
ment. This measure, with the jury law re-
form and the Magistrates’ Act just referred
to, made Bourke extremely unpopular with
the Vested Interest class. The persons who
formed that class maintained that their
labour and their services had opened up the
country, and developed its pastoral and agri-
cultural resources. Their capital, they said,
had made the colony what it was. They
claimed that they were the only persons
entitled to consideration in any measure of
Government that might be proposed, for on
them the prosperity of the country rested,
and if they were driven out the colony might
relapse into primitive barbarism. Their
expenditure of capital and their labour
in the past, they said, gave them
a Vested Interest in the state of
things under which they had done their
work and laid out their capital.' They,
therefore, objected strongly on the strictest
grounds of equity and justice to any new-
fangled potions the Governor might intro-
duce, or to any interference with their
undoubted rights and privileges. This was
the case for the Vested Interest party.
• • •
But the popular instinct, led by the
Patriotic Association, regarded the question
from another point of view. In the first
place, no rational man could look on un-
moved from day to day at the saturnalia of
cruelty going on around him unless his dis-
gust was allayed by a Vested Interest in the
state of things that produced these miseries.
To the popular mind these Vested Interests
were the bonds and props that kept the
fabric of the convict-system together. Just
as the walls of the great cotton warehouses
of Liverpool were once said to be cemented
by negro blood so might the colonial fabric
be said to be built up by the bodies of con-
vict men and women, and cemented with
their blood. Looking back at the way in
which the foundations of these Vested In-
terests were laid—as the process has already
been described in these papers—the popular
mind realised that from the very outset
the great proprietorial fortunes of the
colony had been begun in fraud and spolia-
tion, and perpetuated in oppression and
cruelty. It was clear from every incident in
Botany Bay history up to this, that the In-
terests thus formed had nothing in common
with the future of the colony or its ambition
in the direction of progress. As for the
capital the proprietors had expended, with
the exception of that brought by later
arrivals, everyone knew how that was ac-
quired. And as for their expenditure of
work and energy, it was well enough known
that the opening up of the country was due
to the slave-labour of the iron-gangs and the
herds of assigned convict-labourers, toiling
like negro slaves in Georgia or Virginia,
under the convict whips of their relentless
iind greedy masters. Such was the aspect of
affairs from the popular point of view.
* • •
All the efforts of Sir Richard Bourke to
sweep away the barbarism of the time and
to reconcile these two views in some degree,
only demonstrated the utter futility of any
labour of the kind while the practice of trans-
portation continued. Sir Richard saw what the
future of the colony might become, and the
impossibility of its realisation so long as the
Convict System was perpetuated. There
was but one remedy for what he saw around
him on every hand, and that was the cessa-
tion of transportation altogether. He sent
a dispatch to this effect to the Secretary for
the Colonies, and the first step was taken in
earnest at last.
Song.
THE DREAM-MAIDEN.
The sunbeams ride the dimpled sea,
Glint through the glade,
And dancing o’er the dewy lea
Begem each blade:
The Morn is up, where is my love T
Fled with the Night!
Oh, wherefore flown so soon, fond dove,
Where ta’en thy flight ?
Dear Love, why only visit me
In slumbrous hour,
Art but a dream, a reverie,
A midnight flower,
A fairy roamer that must shun
The light of day,
And ’fore the fervour of the sun
Fade quite away ?
My only Love, so sweetly fair,
Does Fancy paint
A being all too pure to bear
The earthly taint ?
I trust not, yet we two may meet.
Should Fate be kind,
Till then within this bosom, sweet
Dwell saint enshrined !
GEORGE BLACK.
Sydney.
The Chinese Question treated Alcaically.
Cook’s great precursor, Dampier, who, years ago
Just twice one hundred, bold buccaneer renown’d,
Did set, of England’s sons the foremost,
Foot on our Antipodean empire,
Made cruise a second —credit us, if you can—
As many twelve-months after it as before,
In peace by Britain France was ousted;
Spain, too, was ousted alike by Holland.
For who’s not heard of Phillip abandoning
What season enter’d Botany Bay Perouse ?
And, ere by Carpentaria Torres
Cruis’d, off it anchoring all the Dutchmen.
And now the fourth such era proceeds the while
Of ninety twelve-months; Whom has it ousted 1
Us?
No, nor will e’en yet ninety nineties—
It the Chinese has, however, ousted.
May 12, 1888.
A. W.


CATARRH
ia an inflammation of the mucous
membrane of the nose and throat,
and unless cured will destroy every faculty and function
of its victim. Catarriibans is an infallible cure. Sold
by Washington Soul ana all chemists. Foil particulars
IfO i C. M Oi.sMttMis Newtown-, N S W
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.— “ The World ” p. 15.
Her Majesty’s. —“ Two Orphans ” ~
Royal Standard.— “ Lost in London ” ~
Criterion.— “ As You Like It ” ~
Alhambra. —Minstrelsy ~
New Opera House. — Harry Rickards ~ j
Gaiety.—Jungfrau Kapelle ~ j
Haymarket. —Wirth’s Circus ~ )
On Saturday night our pleasant and well-
meaning old friend, Bland Holt, re-appeared at
Sydney Royal in “The World,” a public grief
in eight jumps, and a persevering audience,
who already knew it all off by Heart, struggled
to ascertain what it was about. Several years
have passed since Messrs. Merrit, Pettitt and
Harris first combined to heave this compound of
frantic upholstery and stuffed crime on to the
stage, and since then it has improved steadily in
the way of scenery and grass and other appliances,
but the drama itself remains just where it did.
An improbable Hebrew with an impossible nose
walks round amid a staggering combination of
red and yellow paint; and a deep, blue, heaving
ocean takes the place of the cold, malarious, dirty -
dog-coloured sea of real life, in which old
snags, and dead horses, and foundered books,
and cats, and pretty girls dead ■ and soaked,
with oysters in their hair, float about and clash
dismally against whales while waiting for the
coming of the Judgment Day. The villains
are slumped together till they look like an alarm
of fire in sheol and a general rush for the door, in
order to make room for new panoramas of busted
ships going down to the coroner and the crabs;
huge conflagrations on the painted bosom of the
surging deep ; busy cities where the poor but
honest and comparatively unwashed adventurer
holds out a ton of soil in friendship and affection
to the well-dressed girl of his devotion ; and mid-
night tragedies in which ihad dogs and scalded
spooks tear each other in lunatic asylums and
hotels. The pressure of the eight acts urges
everything at a gallop, and cold shivers climb
over slabs of underdone crime, and are
climbed over in their turn by assassins carry-
ing bottles of chloroform and blobs of gore.
Family lawyers who have slithered with the funds,
sinful barrownites with two wives, swindling
Hebrews, rafts, whalers, dynamite and fragments
of passengers going up, smashed rocks, salt water,
fresh water; no water at all, bad language and
fights, nightmare, delirium tremens, big feet and
human brains, lunatics, tombstones, overturned
kerosene-tina, boots, bashed hats, corpses, and
ruins pound across the stage in a wild whirl and
riot, accompanied by optical illusions and drunken
phantasmagoria that are as hard to define when
all is over as a spectral camel flying through the
shadow of a dream. “The World” contains
enough crime and excitement for ten raging
dramas, and the impression it leaves behind it is
too mixed to stand definition. The man who has
rushed a paint-factory on a mad elephant and
then gathered himself together three hours later,
and inquired feebly where he was, and if anything
in the whole solar system remained unbroken,
cannot crow much over the individual who sits
out B. Holt’s dra,ma to the bitter beery end.
* * *
The scenery, of course, is gorgeous, for
“The World” consists almost entirely of scenery
and an endless fall. The raft and the wide,
heaving Atlantic in Act 111. form such a picture
as is seldom seen on any stage, and the faint blue
haze which covers the panorama makes it appear
as if countless miles of unfathomable distance
were crowded into the little space behind the foot-
lights ; and the rest of the decorations, though
less strikingly novel, are first-rate of their kind.
With regard to the live part of the show, Mrs.
Bland Holt made her first appearance in Sydney
on Saturday night as Mary Blyth, and won the
hearts of the audience right off.' She is a slender
little creature with a pretty face, a sweet voice, and
considerable ability as an actress, and ought to be a
permanent favourite. That handsome and clever
deity of Sydney playgoers, Miss Myra Kemble,
invested an insignificant part with all the interest
which could well be crowded into it, and Bland
himself played his funny Hebrew with vim, and
made the old gags seem new once more. A fine
orchestra and 18 miscellaneous lost souls make up
the rest of the excited conglomeration.
. l a
In 11 days more the Wqodellers
of Sydney Gaiety will paWiP e y . jodel and
float away upon the stre,/ *j ct P ria '( l 4, and the
echoes of their pleasant meloc 4 place to
the howl of the tragedian as lie pm sues his victim
through impossible places with an 18-foot axe, or
the wail of the comic person "who is unable to
shake off his mother-in-law. The presence of
the foreign parties has been-a joy while it lasted,
and has helped to lift us above the dreary com-
monplace of boulders and boiled pigs’ feet, and
when they are gone we will look back upon them
with cheerfulness, and will plant the cheap, un-
pretentious herb above the grave of their rernem-
oranefi, and put up a wail to the shade of Bill Tell.
JL Jt X
*Jv* 'A' '/V* 'A*
Essie Jenyns continues to farewell at
Sydney Criterion. She did it on Saturday night
in “Ingomar,” and that reckless Gaul was sub-
dued as usual by the sweet poetic dream about
two souls having but a single thought and two
internal organs of circulation that beat as one.
Somehow this ancient chestnut always fetches a
Sydney audience, and no one rises to protest
•against the hollowness of it. In these times two
•souls that had only one thought would go stone-
broke or else be run over by a tram-car ; modern
words halve many thoughts and the majority of
them are about whisky and cigars. Essie, how-
ever, looked her prettiest—she generally does as
Farthenia; and her gentle gliding motions
suggest that one didn’t need to hurry to
be a Greek of the olden time. Bill Hollo-
way also made a noble barbarian —in spots
—and if the spots were rather small if must
be remembered that large spots are apt to become
blotches. When he wasn’t so noble as he might
be he was engaged in spreading out his four limbs
and throwing his head back as if he were trying
to look at his braces. Mr. Hodson as Myron,
Miss Marion Morris as Actea, and Miss Maynard
in the small part of Theano were the other at-
tractions of a company which, apart from these
looked as if it were waiting to know whether it
was to die in the house or go out and perish in the
street. “ Much Ado About Nothing ” and
‘ Pygmalion ” fill up the present week.
** * *
The two motherless girls from Normandy
■continue to tell their tale of woe at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), and, as a notable feature in the story,
they arrive on the stage in a big coach drawn by
four horses. This is stated to be the only four-
horse coach which has ever appeared inside an
Australian theatre. Now and then'a ramshackle
vehicle, with a lank and woeful cat’s-meat moon-
ing in the shafts, has been put on by way of lend-
ing an air of a verisimilitude to an otherwise bald
and unconvincing narrative, but the coach at Her
Majesty’s is a genuine article, and Maggie Knight
is inside as a visible evidence of good faith.
** * *
“Spoons,” an alleged farce, which has
raged in Sydney at intervals for several years,
stumps through the fleeting hours at the Opera
House. The point in which it differs from other
damages to common-sense is that it contains 26
parts, while there are only 10 people to play them
—consequently Mr. Rickards himself has to hump
seven characters in his slow progress to Abraham’s
Bosom—bottom stud; Miss Kate Leete holds up
three ; Miss Constance, five ; and Misses St. Law
rence and D'Alroy, six between them. In point
of importance, they range from Chauncey Godol-
phin Fitzbattleaxe. Plantagenet Brown down to
plain Apollo Jones, described as “ a giddy goat,” and
Mr. Simpson Breezes. Most of the names are
orthographical outrages, and pronouncing them is
bad for the human head, but some good singing
and dancing helps to redeem the horrors of the
scene. Wirth’s circus also prevails at the Hay-
market, being supported largely by a lady pro-
fessionally known as Miss Marizles —a name
which seems strangely akin to Horribles —who
walks on a rolling globe with an infant pheno-
menon on her shoulders.
** * *
We shall be charitable to the Greenwood
family, from Auckland, N.Z., who opened a brief
season of three nights at Sydney Y.M.C.A. hall
on 11th inst. The principal fault of this
gifted bub untrained family is that they
MR. BLAND HOLT.
all do too much at an early age. Miss
Maribel plays the piano and violin, sings and
recites, and consequently does none of these in a
style which warrants a public appearance. Miss
Agatha plays the violin and sings. Miss Ruby
plays the piano) sings, and recites —doing the last,
perhaps, best, though inclined to hurry and
inarticulation. Master Bob was billed for recita-
tion, but didn’t appear, and perhaps the audience,
which comprised several of our best musicians,
missed a treat. They looked as if they missed
something, anyway.
** * #
The fascinating story of “Jim the Pen-
man,” almost a novelty in Melbourne, went off
like a bomb at the Bijou last Saturday night. No
other play approaching this in modern interest
and freshness of construction has come over the
briny wave for a weary while. The outwardly
calm, but inwardly perturbed Penman, forgerying
his way into sassiety only to be overtaken by dis-
covery and sudden death, is a warning to many
and a lesson to the rest—down to the grimy
gallery-boy who puts a ’orny ’and upon his ’art
and says, “Thank Gord, I never lurnt to rite.”
Mr. St. Maur fills the name part with his old re-
served force, and Mr. Titheradge—whose re-
appearance was welcomed like a rich bachelor
uncle—is an effective “Baron” Hartfeld in all
respects save the German accent. Mr. R. Owen
Harris, an unfamiliar name, fails to brings out the
Erofessional side of the masher detective, but
e dozes around the premises with striking
fidelity to nature. A superfluity of eye-
play and suspiratipn of forced breath mar the
effect of Cecil Ward’s part of the trouble, while
the other males vary in excellence. Among the
ladies Miss Romer, as Lady Dunscombe, is the
only shining light. Miss Florence Seymour looks
and dresses the part of Mrs. Jim, but fails to hold
the audience at all important moments. Even in
the most thrilling passages Miss Seymour pauses
t.n arrange her trailing' “ tg.il " with n back-kick.
and, as she is also rather unsettled about the head,
neither end of her handsome presence gives entire
satisfaction. Miss Violet Ellicott, as the daughter,
falls below the Brough and Boucicault standard,
but these defects notwithstanding, “Jim the
Penman,” is bound to do big business.
-it 9
‘ 4 Martha ” made a mild success at Melbourne
Opera House on Saturday, especially among that
section of the audience which carries a musical
score and hunts for false notes with a long, bony
forefinger. The advent of a new stage-manager
loomed large in the general get-up of this tuneful
opera, while the orchestra never strayed from the
path of rectitude. Some supernumeraries on horse-
back, representing Queen Anne and her suite,
proved to be rather backward in prancing on
to the festive scene, and it was noticeable that
Her Majesty’s loyal subjects beckoned to her to
hurry up—but otherwise “ Martha ” was har-
moniously put through. Miss Amy Sherwin in-
terpreted her large share of the music and plot
with much ease and some tenderness, and Mr.
Wilkie’s ropey tenor rose to the occasion when
least expected. Mr. Hubbard, whose voice is a
melodious thunderclap, lent valuable assistance in
every department, and the others did their best.
** * *
A cold, damp shadow of murky despair
broods over the French Comedy entertainment in
Melbourne. Press notices of a sticky nature ap-
peal to the masses to roll up and show their “cul-
chaw,” but the masses respond not. Per-
haps the most artless comment on these very
tame performances has been passed by certain
members of the company, who expressed their
surprise that “ very few Frenchmen are to be seen
in the Freemasons’ Hall.” The moral is painfully
obvious.
** * #
The laws of supply and demand are affect-
ing theatrical prices in Melbourne, where the pur-
chasing power of “five bob” is slowly, but surely,
getting beautifully less. At the “toney ” Princess’s
proud Capital has already shoved lowly Labour
from the front rows of the stalls, those undeniably
best seats in the house being reserved for shirt-
fronts and bare shoulders at a dollar a time. The
dress-circle —which in London is abhorred by the
“best” people—has riz to 7s. 6d. for special at-
tractions, and the dudes who _ frequent that
fashionable trysting-place are beginning to look
thin and hungry, as though the extra 2s. 6d. were
deducted from the luncheon-fund. Two theatres
—Princess’s and Opera House-r-are just now
adopting the advanced scale.
** # ♦
Charles Warner finishes a good time at
the Princess’s with benefits on Thursday and
Friday. The last night is* dedicated to works by
Divine William, and Mr. Warner will challenge
comparison with Plain Bill Holloway in the
characters of Romeo and Shylock. And on Satur-
day the whole'city will roll silently up to feast on
the gorgeous vision Of 13 burlesque performers
from the Gaiety Theatre, London, Be still, our
beating heart!
** * *
Miss Von Finkelstein has established her
new Jerusalem at Melbourne Athenseum, and
everybody worth mentioning is flocking through
the gates with a ticket. In discourses which con-
tain more words to the minute than were ever
dreamt of in the philosophy of Forbes or G. A,
Sala, this remarkable spinster disposes of any
little doubts and suspicions previously entertained.
A genuine air of Palestine hangs around the whole
show, and after daily paying his money at the
door the patient searcher after truth finds himself,
for the first time, in the “Homes and Haunts,”
&c. Miss Von F.’s elocution is as homely as
a quartern loaf, and as rapid as an epidemic in
warm weather. In she is a Scrip-
tural version of Miss Alice Barnett —tall and mas-
<nVo lint lipyeud her garments, there is nothing
about the lecturess which suggests Rebecca at the
well or Lot’s wife before she was salted.
Far more local colour is supplied by the
lady an'd gentlemen assistants, who sit
about the Holy Land in a condition of
Eastern langour until they are called forward to
throw some interesting side light on the Bcrip
tures. Miss Von Finkelstein’s lectures must
amuse and instruct tallow-faced children of
godliness and bright-eyed sons of Belial—the
sheep and the goats alike. Agnostics can sit and
chuckle when they learn that generations of par-
sons have been drawing beautiful lessons from
Bible-words wrongly translated. The Jerusalem-
bred lady makes it abundantly clear that the
Scriptures were written by Jews for dews, with-
out any consideration for the Gentiles who would
read them upside down in ages to come. And in
demonstrating this fact the lecturess never makes
you sick, nor even once enquires after your soul.
The only Smythe is engineering this good work.
** * *
Carrie Swain and her tank are in the full
flood of success at Melbourne Royal. More
realistic drama has been added to the “ Tomboy ”
by the “ dousing ” of a real infant in place of the
dummy which was hung round Carrie’s neck
aforetime. Even in the tank-act Miss Swain be-
trays a vast originality of thought. She drops
the infant into the water at one place and dives
after it in the opposite direction. Then she swims
slowly round and rescues it from behind some
rocks, re-appearing in limelight with the little one
sitting on her back. There is nothing conven-
tional about realism like that. “Tomboy” is
handsomely mounted, and Carrie’s satellites—
notably Mr. Leston—shine to the best of their
opportunities.
** * #
Gilbert, the librettist, has a curious habit
when writing comic operas. When his inventive
powers flag he ceases writing and begins to sketch
caricatures. The quaint pictures produced invi-
gorate his imaginative powers, and often suggest
new and striking trains of thought.
** * *
Mr. “ Bob ” Soutar, the elderly husband
of Nellie Barren, was the original Green Jones
in “ Ticket of Leave Man.” Off the stage he
wears spectacles and writes (or used to) panto-
mimes for provincial theatres.
#* * *
“ Billy Hill,” one of the funniest, and cer-
tainly the fattest of actors on the London stage,
died of apoplexy the other day. Hill’s burly
figure came into prominence with the first produc-
tion of “Pink Dominoes,” and he never after-
wards lost the plump popularity which was pecu-
liarly his own. He was the original Uncle Catter-
mole in “ Private Secretary.”
## # #
Mr. Darrell’s drama, “The Lucky Lot,”
has been produced, for the first time on any stage,
at the Adelaide Royal, and received with
moderate success. George’s latest sensationalism
is on the lines of his previous struggles. He relies
on Boucicault’s “ Streets of New York ” as a wind-
up to the season, and Charles Arnold succeeds.
The Faust Family and the Skating Rink are the
only other shows left to delight a weary city,
which has relied too much on a carnal silver-boom
and been left.
*AI~ ■&-
TV W 'TV*
A full house greeted the first performance
of “The Woman in Red,” at the Melbourne Alex-
andra. The fact that the small boys of the city
and suburbs were at much pains to make the
posters read “ The Woman in Bed ” may account
for this.
** # *
Genevieve Ward’s new play, of which W.
H. Vernon is part author, has proved to be of a
drivelling character. Vernon never was mucli of
a genius except in the eyes of his well-matured
patroness. Which reminds us that several gentle-
men whom we know aren’t chickens, either, al-
though their wrinkles are filled in with some
kind of patent cement.
rife rife
Tv* VV* t 7v' TV
Says the musical critic of the Sydney D.T.;
“We must not forget Fraulein Emma Uhl, whose fresh
voice m ‘ Der Uute Bua ’ was so ebaxing in the tone of the
jodeJ that it would have wheedled blood out of the pro-
vernal stone.”
Great Scott! Is this intended as a compliment ?
Suppose you were to tell a woman in a drawing-
room that her voice was so fresh and coaxing that
it would make a stone sweat blood, what would
her big brother say to you ? What our learned
friend of the D.T. meant, no doubt, was that
Miss Uhl was nice enough to whistle a bird off a
tree. We have often found ourselves mixing up
our proyerbs after twelve midnight.
# # # =£
The enterprising management of the
Bondi Aquarium last week added a large
stale fish to the other attractions of the show.
Some three weeks ago a whale, variously esti-
mated at 27ft. to 90ft. in length, was assassinated
off Jervis Bay (N.S.W.), and, after having gone
bad and been mostly eaten by sharks, the bat-
tered remnant of the animal was beached at
Bondi. Some 20ft. of dismantled whale with
70ft. of bad smell attached for several hours
preached an eloquent sermon at the Aquarium,
and served to remind the passing idler of what he
might finally look like.
*# * *
Parson Frackelton, of Eandwick, de-
nounces attendance at Sunday concerts as “larri-
kinism.” Thus is one show slanged by the
other show. The French Comedy Company is
looming in the near distance, and the ladies of
Potts Point are wrestling with that old conun-
drum — avez-vous le canif demon onclc ? —in order
to be ready for the occasion. It is said that there
is one Australasian Governor who not only goes
to theatres gratis but requires to be supplied with
tea and bread and butter—also gratis—between
the acts, and after pouring these refreshments con-
tentedly down his neck he frequently asks for more.
“Dick”' Whittington, the popular theatre
treasurer, is fast regaining strength, and he 'is
nightly to be seen “in front” at the Adelaide
Royal. George Leitch is playing “ Harbor
Lights” at Charters Towers (Q.), to immense
audiences. In the stalls : “What an affectionate
couple in that box ! ” “ They cannot be married.”
“Pardon me, they are married—but not to each
other.” Ad. from a recent Tasmanian daily
“Last night but four of Shakespeare’s glorious
creation. Miss Essie Jenyns.” This makes the
divine Essie out to be about old enough for the
ballet. At the theatre : “I hope I don’t disturb
you, madam,” he said, as he was squeezing past
her to go out between the acts. “Not at all,”
she answered, with a most pleasing smile ; “ not
at all, sir ; my husband keeps the bars.” After
the theatre. He: “Which scene did you like best,
dearest ? ” Young Wife : “ The one in which the
persecuted heroine wore the flowered satin gown,
which cost at least three guineas a yard, ft wag
a beautiful scene * ”


FROM RHEUMATISM.
Tile CELEBRATED
WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS!
A Patent and Pleasant Remedy.
This popular stimulant has been proved to afford
Great Relief in RHEUMATISM and GOUT.
It SOOTHES the NERVES by its gently
diffusive properties, ALLAYS IRRITATION by
its quieting effects, and, TONING the SYSTEM,
STRENGTHENS the ORGANS so as to perfect
functional action.
UT There is nothing known better calculated to
invigorate the constitution than
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS I
Pepper
and
Salt
'I 1 his item wants to be studied prayerfully
and kept in a dry spot. Keep calm while you
read it, and, if possible, hold on to something. If
convenient, it had better be read in bed, and, if
the patient is delicate, he should try to get some
sleep after it, and avoid excitement for a day or
two. Robust persons may study it in a shower-
bath, and afterwards rub themselves dry and take
gentle exercise, but stimulants should be avoided,
and it should be followed by a slice or two of dry
toast and a cup of weak tea. Excitable people
had better be chained up before it is read to them,
and not let loose till the next day :
“ At a meeting recently held in the .loss-house, Palmers-
ton (Q ), it was resolved to form a Chinese society for the
promotion of sanitary reform.”
After that it is time to stand from under, for the
world is going to drop.
• * *
“ 'The Baby King of Spain’s second birth-
day was to be kept in Madrid, during May, by a
monster fete to the school children. Twelve thou-
sand meat-pies, as many cakes and oranges, and
lsoolbs. of sweets had been ordered to regale the
little ones.” And pot at all a bad way of training
the rising generation in “ loyalty.” The King
must have a Birthday Ode :
A Mr. Assheton-Smith has dragged Nature
herself into the Jubilee grovel. On the slope of a
mountain in North Wales this soulless creature
has planted (130,000 trees, so arranged as to form
“Jubilee 1887.” Each letter and figure measures
200 yards long. After casually mentioning that
Mr. Ass. Smith had just finished entertaining
Lord Salisbury when he broke out in this manner,
we will vent our feelings :
The children are sucking their sweets,
King of Spain;
They slumber with visions of treats
On the brain ■,
They are up to their eyes
In fresh fruit and meappies,
And will later on holler with pain,
King of Spain-
Such fare is the little ones’ bane.
Two years have passed over your head,
King of Spain;
With a solid gold spoon you are fed,
And it’s plain
That this giving of cakes
(Though it means tummy-aches)
Will the love of your subjects retain,
King of Spain,
So long as a kid you remain.
But troubles await you in store,
King of Spain :
The tricks and devices of yore
Will be vain
When you sit on the throne
As a sovereign grown ;
No doubt you’ll be asked to explain,
King of Spain,
A reason why royals should reign. \
The children now sucking their sweets,
King of Spain,
May gather'in mobs in the streets
Once again
And go for you straight;
Twill be Monarchy’s fate
The cup which is bitter to drain,
King of Spain,
Ere long—if we tug at the chain.
Great Nature! is this thing to be?
Shall half a million saplings green
Thus fix the legend “ Jubilee,”
In honour of a drowsy Queen,
Upon the mighty mountain’s slopes ?
(Of course it cannot mean the Pope’s.)
If they should bear a foliage bright
On waving boughs the summer long,
The pattern of their planting might
Affect the feathered songster’s song,
Until each bird on every tree
Chirped nothing else taut “ Jubilee.”
And children of a future time
Would picnic underneath their shade,
While mothers told a yarn sublime
Of why that woodland had been made—
‘ ‘ God set these trees, my little dears,
Because a Queen reigned 50 years. ”
A hundred Jubilee conceits
We scouted with a mocking laugh—
Those gas-jets flaring in the streets —
Those Testaments with autograph ;
Such follies live their little day,
And then into oblivion stray.
But if the wondrous works' of Gol
Pay homage to a mortal throne,
If shams be rooted in the sod
To flourish when we’re dead and gone—
Then might the stars in Heaven serene
Be made to spell “God save the Queen.”
Grant not thy aid, O ! Nature kind,
To glorify a purpose base
Let not a man of flunkey mind
Write grovel on thy gracious face !
•lust send a timely whirlwind round
And tear each sapling from the ground.
The Brickbat.
[Slung by Titus Salt, scribe by specia.l appointment to
His Excellency Baron Carington.]
A blessed branch of our venerable civilisa-
tion is showing signs of being about to go.
Further back than history can remember, experi-
ence has shown that an empire cair always get
along while the beer and the gallows hold out,, and
for this reason those tu r o great institutions have
been carefully looked aft. ) and kept dry : but of
later years a restless and huffiing generation has
c 9*mmenced to compound new-fangled devices for
obliterating emperors and others, and a desire to
run executions on scientific principles promises to
end in the gallows being broken up and made into
church pew's. ()ur hoary friend that the executed
criminal always came down with—we allude here
to that old-established and Valuable custom
known as tile dull, sickening thud —threatens
soon to pass away, 'and tile harrowing
howls of the prisoner and his closing re-
marks oil the scaffold will probably follow.
His last observation, to the effect that he
knows he is going to heaven; and that he Would
never have done it if it hadn’t been along of the
beer, bit b that it was a blessed thing for his
so’ul that he was took Up and brought here,
will most likely become extinct about the same
time; they are all a pirt of the same lachry-
mose system, and the object of the reform which
is now in progress is to make the proceedings as
cheerful as possible to all parties concerned, and
to furnish simple yet comfortable and thoroughly
complete executions to customers who may favour
with their orders. The foolish, cumbersome system
by which a prisoner spends his last minutes in
Hi/l
>I*E
€* .r=-
“ THINGS WE SEE,” &c.
needlessly climbing a ladder in order that he may
afterwards rush down a rope will give place to an
elegant contrivance by which he will be extin-
guished on the ground-floor, and at the si me time
his remains will undergo no damage calculated to
harrow the feelings of his relatives; and the
coroner will no longer find him with his head
partly dragged off when he comes to fool with his
carcase and pretend not to know what he died of.
Possibly the coroner himself will be left out, for
it seems an absurdity to pay a man for finding out
that another man has been hanged when he knows
it all the time. Under the coming regime, too,
offenders can be wiped out indoors, thus prevent-
ting the unseemly spectacle of a murderer being
choked under an umbrella in wet weather with the
added barbarism of exposing him to colds and
damp feet. A comfortable chair will be provided
for the gentleman who is going to be abolished,
and this can be placed before the fire in winter, or
on a broiling summer day it can be removed
opposite a doorway where there is a gentle breeze.
The deceased may also be allowed to smoke in his
last moments—an indulgence which is impossible
on the gallows, as- the sudden shock of the drop
invariably jerks the hot ashes into his eye ; and
light, nourishing diet can also be supplied if re-
quired. Then while the plain or fancy murderer
is thinking of something else a properly qualified
official will pull a lever, ‘ and an invisible
force will strike the chair with a stupendous
bat and its inhabitant will be blotted out.
There will be no tragedy, no howl of animosity
and execration, and no excitement, but the
offender will be there one moment, and the next
the electric spark will come along and he will
leave. The State of New York has, the cableman
tells us, already adopted the new system, and
several criminals are waiting to be annulled. They
will probably be the first who have d : ed by legal
process without being more or less doubled up,
and when they are suddenly shocked across the
Jordan a new era in executions will have com-
m-nced.
♦ #
A tender domestic incident, illustrative of
the confidence which exists in well-regulated
families, took place last week in a Sydney cafe,
and many qplilent citizens were moved to tears.
It was evening, and a number of gentlemen were
engiged in coniainiig nourishment. An active
waiter in evening dress was appealing to the cus-
tomers in that mixed dialect which seems to con-
sist of Indian war'whoops and bits of Japanese
preaching split up small to state what kind of
sustenance they preferred to take, and then he
would run falling down and get up again still
running and rush three different ways at once to
seven different places, and come back bearing 11
plates of soup and 17 quails on toast all at once;
Everything went smoothly until the hungry visi-
tors had eaten their way half through the menu,
and the victuals were sailing gently upon a
summer sea, when suddenly a female was seen,to
enter. She was attired with a deceased animal in
het bonnet and a look of determination in her
eye, and when the gilded minioh offered her a
seat and asked' her if she would have soup, tailed
fowl, roast fowl, fried fowl, fricaseed fowl, devilled
fowl, grilled fowl, curried fowl, stuffed fowl,
padded fowl, underdone fowl, overdone' foul, or
fowl, she motioned him away with such utter
scorn that he fled into the next street. Several
old-established customers turned to look at her,
and they noticed that she wore an aspect which
reminded them of the Pr odigal Son when he
returned to his early home and told the old pro-
genitor that he would burst his boiler if he didn't
Icok uncommonly sharp with that blessed veal.
But still no one fully apprehended the gravity of
the situation until the lady stopped behind a
respectable gentleman whom she had never seen
in all her life before, and landed him a tremendous
thwack on the side of the head, which shook the
building, and scattered three soups and an under-
done lamb chop over the-wall, and made one plain
fish totter on its basis. Then she explained in
hysterical accents that it was all a mistake, and
she had imagined that he was her husband ; and
the aggrieved eater rose with his face in one hand
and rage and a fork in the other, and said that he
would seek out all her male relatives and jump
them into the dust. The proprietor interposed at
this stage, and said that if the ladv were to
apologise and leave instantly, and the damaged
customer had some horse liniment put on his ear,
and the establishment refunded the three spilled
soups and the plain fish, and the underdone lamb
were picked up from under the table and replaced
by some fresh aliment, and nothing extra were
charged, he considered that they would all be nearly
as well off as if the visitor hadn't called. She apolo-
gised accordingly, and said she was sorry she
hadn’t hit the other fellow, and then she left
. sobbing, while the ear of her new acquaintance
swelled up so much that he obscured the entrance
to the premises. Her husband, as it afterwards
transpired, was at the other end of the room all
the time, but, with great presence of mind, he lay
low and said nothing.
For some 200 years past the scientists of
Europe have thrown things at each other in their
efforts to decide whether tobacco does or does not
shorten life, and after all they have left the pro-
blem very much where it was when they started.
Meanwhile it has remained for a humble employee
in a Melbourne tobacco-factory to set the vexed
question at rest for ever. While solemn professors
in goggles were heaving polysyllables at each other
in a hundred colleges, and many a scientific party
was verbally whaling his fellow-man over theories
which remained mere theories to the end, this
obscure follower of science brought the subject
into the arena of actual experiment, and settled
beyond dispute that tobacco, under favorable cir-
cumstances, may lead to a fatal result within one
minute after use. The subject of the test was a
healthy dog, and having got the animal in a
suitable position he dropped lofilbs. of American
plug on to the middle of its back from a height of
lift. It became greatly excited and died in about
eight seconds. It is thus demonstrated that tobacco,
when applied suddenly to the spine, is one of the
most dangerous substances yet discovered. As
another instance of its evil effects, we may men-
tion the case of a man named Jenkins, residing in
London, who calculated that during his life he had
consumed no less than 31 tons of tobacco and
11,000 cigars. His constitution was completely
broken up, and he died the other day, at tin* age
of 83, through falling off a house. Drink and
tobacco generally travel together, spreading devas-
tation as they gd, and the N.Z. Government,
being impressed with the evil consequences of
these indulgences, established, some years ago, a
separate branch in the Government Life Insurance
Department for the use of teetotallers only. This
branch is now possessed of a shortage of nearly
£3OOO, while the drinking department is £94,000
to the good, and if the teetotallers continue to die
off as they have been doing their institution will
have to shut up.
Brief Mention.
An Orange squash- Haynes.
An Argent want—A silvermine.
Tar and feathers—H.M.Si Osprey.
Cream of Tartar—The Emperor of China.
R- C. joke. Sodality Whisky-and-
sodality.
Let us honor and respect the busy bee.
Once full, he makes straight for home.
The secret is out. The guards on the
. suburban lines shout the names of the stations in
Yolapuk.
Motto for the Australian Natives’ Asso-
ciation —A N-eigh. This is very brutal, but we
can t help it.
N.S.W. Parliament should put a heavy
tax on vermin-poison. Self-preservation is, the
first law of nature.
John Grace ate no breakfast before being
hanged. He had sworn that no evening paper
should publish the bill of fare.
An enormous jaw-bone has been dis-
covered in a West Australian river-bed. John
Cash Neild, however, is all right, so far.
An Adelaide man has invented a spring-
gun for defending hen-houses. We look forward
to a sudden and fearful mortality amongst China-
man.
A new way to catch rabbits. Start a crab
with a bit of lighted candle on its back Walking
down bunny’s burrow, and wait to receive him at
the other end when he scoots.
A lawyer fell into an open well and dam-
aged his head in Gippsland (Vic.), a few days ago.
If truth were at the bottom of that well, how
strange they both would feel!
The Rev. Mr. Catt, a member of the
Wesleyan Conference, recently held in Melbourne,
announced himself as opposed to the Chinese.
Mr. Catt’s reasons are obvious.
According to Rev. Berry, of Auckland,
the only sanctuary the Wesleyans of Maoriland
possessed 50 years ago was a saw-pit. Hell must
be a recent institution in New Zealand.
The S.M, Herald says: “There is no
animal so useful, so generally docile, and so faith-
ful as the horse.” This is going back on the long-
eared contingent of its writers with a vengeance.,
The Chinese Hawker.
Dear Bulletin, —I am a workman’s wife, one of
those misguided women- who buy the vegetables
for their . '-v ->ds’ dinner from the John China-
man who t one ffc’M cabbag-ee from door to door,
and lam i every havcott him. Now, I am not
one of the transport who are too callous or too
careless of- c u feature of their children, or of the
fortunes and well-being of their people, to have
given the question any thought. I have thought
about it and I do desire to see the white man hold
his own against the heathen. But what am I to
do ? If I refuse_ to take vegetables from the
Chinaman, I must go without altogether; for, as
you very well know, vegetables are as necessary
to an Australian’s physical happiness as
even Chinese prohibition. Of course, you
will say, “ Deal from the white green-grocer.” I
have tried it, and I find the white green-grccer a
humbug and a failure. For six weeks I paid three
hundred per cent, more tor my vegetables than
my neighbours who continued to deal from Chinese
hawkers. I did this in a pure spirit of patriotism.
My husband is a member of the Anti-Chinese
League, although he is not patriotic enough to go
without Chinese-grown vegetables. He told me
that the Chinaman was a curse and that “he must
go! ” I acquiesced, and, unsolicited by my
husband, boycotted my customary vegetable-
vendor. With this' result: I paid a shilling to the
white green-grocer for the same quantity of goods
I was in the habit of purchasing from the China-
man for fourpence, and one morning when -I
required something.the green-grocer lacked, he left
his cart, crossed the road, purchased it from a
Chinaman and made 300 per cent, out of poor me
on the transaction. I subsequently discovered
that he purchased all his vegetables from Chinese
gardeners. I find now that nearly all the vege-
tables exposed for sale in the Sydney markets, and
in various shops throughout the city, are Chinese-
grown. The whole movement against the Chinese
is, I am inclined to believe, saturated with hypo-
crisy. It is the fashion to inveigh against the
workman’s wife, and to accuse her of thoughtless-
ness of her children’s best interests, purely, I sup-
pose, because no person is singled out for accusa-
tion. Why do not the anti-Chinese agitators pub-
lish in the papers lists of the property-holders
whose dilapidated, ramshackle hovels are let to
Chinese tenants for the foulest purposes, and
serve as simple hot-beds of gambling, opium-
smoking, seduction, misery, and typhoid ? Let
the names of the people who reap huge rents from
the Chinamen in Lower George-street and in
Goulburn-street, Sydney, be published, and then,
if you want to apply the boycott,, apply it to them
The Chinaman cannot exist in the country with-
out living somewhere. There is a big-idea in this.
—Yours, &c., A Workman s Wife.


“ I have found Mr. W. P. Caunfs Phosphorised Iron
Quinine Tonic superior to any others I have uSed. It is
an excellent nervine.—Yours, Nellie Palmer.” Prepared
only by \V. F. OAT T NT, The Pharmacy, Camperdown.
Obtainable from all (‘hcmists. • Take no substitute.*
Personal Items.
John Bright, it is cabled, is still very
weak. In the head, probably.
Editor Winter, of Melbourne Herald.,
fills up the silly season with bunyip-perjuries.
At Cairns (Q.) there is a parson named
Slaughter. The local lambs unwittingly go to the
slaughter.
Chief Secretary Deakin’s visit to Sydney
is chiefly in the interests of a troublesome malady
which temporarily affects his neck. Mr. Deakin
is far from strong.
A Sierra Leone coloured barrister has the
leading position at the Bar. He makes over
£4OOO a year from white litigants.
Probate has been granted to the will of
Lady Parkes, the late wife of the N.S.W. Premier,
the value of the estate being £5OO.
£350 are required to build an Anglican
church at Broken Hill. This is a mild demand
considering the tons of silver yielded 1 by the local
mines,
M‘llwraith, the Australian Nationalist
Champion, was in his younger days a first-rate
post-and-rail splitter. As a working miner he
was also a success,
Mrs. John Clayton, widow of the well-
known actor and manager, gave birth to a boy
very shortly after the death of her husband. Mrs.
Clayton is Dion Bouoicault’s eldest daughter.
“ Money ” Miller, of Victoria, who died a
couple of months back, was said to be worth
£5,000,000. On application for probate, however,
the wealth of the dead man was put down at a
paltry £1,300,000,
From a Sydney paper ;
“ Griffiths.—May 9, at her residence, Upper Mittagong,
Sarah, relict of the late John Griffiths, in her 90th year,
also native of N.S.W., leaving 11 children, 68 grand
children, 175 great-grand children, and 21 great-great-
grand children to mourn their loss.”
“ Drink to me only with thine eyes, ” said
Ben Jonson. That's what a well-known N.S.W.
politician does ;he drinks with bis eyes. His
favourite beverage is Hennessey’s Three Star,,and
previous to every nip he dips his finger in the
poison two or three times and rubs his eyes with it.
Elliott F. Shepard, the new editor of the
New York Mail and Express, prints each day at
the head of his editorial columns a passage from
the Bible. This fact has produced the following
'remark from a contemporary“ Mr. Shepard
evidently knows what will be news in New York.”
When Mr. Goschen, Chancellor of the
Exchequer, had finished his three-hours’ speech
■on the Budget he retired to the refreshment-
rooms for a bottle of champagne. On being
■charged Od. more than usual he innocently en-
quired the cause of the advance in price, “It’s
the new duty, sir,” replied the waiter.
On the death of Matthew Arnold, Bir
Edwin Arnold wrote :
“ Now, that thou better knowest friends and foes,
Good Friend ! dear Rival! bear no grudge to those
Who had not time, in Life's hard fight to show
How well they liked thee for thy ‘ slashing blow ’;
Row ‘ sweet ’ thy ‘ reasonableness ’ seemed ; how right
Thy lofty pleading for the long-dimmed ‘ light’ !”
Mrs. Case, an old resident of Thorp’s
(Pinch, N.S.W., died recently at the age of 72
years. She arrived in this colony with her hus-
band in 1839. She leaves 10 children, 99 grand-
- 'children, and 10 great-grandchildren. She weighed
■fully 20st. Part of the wall of the house in which
she died had to be removed to admit of the exit
■of the coffin. '
Three Australian writers have dramas
■on the London boards at the same time—Mrs.
Campbell Praed with “ Arianne,” Mr. Fergus
■Hume with “ The Mystery of a Hansom Cab,”
■ and Mr, Haddon Chambers, whose new play for
Mr. Beerbohm-Tree is still unnamed. It is also
■ noteworthy that these three dramatists were all
born as well as educated in the colonies. Mr.
1 Chambers, has a younger brother on the Sydney
(press.
Major-General Bancroft, who was A.D.C.
’to Sir Henry Barkly, when Governor of Victoria
in the Fifties, now comes in for over a hundred
-and fifty thousand sterling through his wife being
■ the daughter of the late “ Money ” Miller. Mr.
H. J. Wrixon, the present Victorian Attorney-
‘ General, is equally fortunate, he having married
■Mrs. Anderson, another daughter of Mr. Miller’s.
In a N.,S. W. Benevolent Asylum there is a
’man, tottering under the weight of years and piis-
! fortune, who, in his youth and early manhood,
■ was one of the most favoured of colonists, and
whose name on the back of a bill for whatever
■ amount, was once considered good as gold. Min-
ing speculation drove him to bankruptcy, and,
his money gone, his friends wept, too. His wife,
a society idol of her day, died shortly after his
rain.
The late Theodore Hook’s only daughter,
■ an aged lady, who had been a governess as long
as her bodily strength permitted, died in London
’ the other day,' chiefly of starvation, and was
1 buried by the parish. A few days afterwards it
was announced that the chair in which her father
sat while writing many of his novels would shortly
be sold at a public auction, and would probably
fetch a high price. “ Alas ! that wood should be
so dear, and flesh and blood so cheap.”
Isaac A. Isaacs, the Melbourne barrister
■ who was admitted to the N.S.W. Bar the other
■ day, was born at Beechworth (Vic.). Isaacs,
• although only about 30 years of age, is now one of
1 the leading common law men in Melbourne. He
was for years a clerk in the Prothonotary’s office,
and while there gained that deep insight into legal
! procedure which he possesses. He held a “watch-
' ing ” brief in the great divorce-case of Malpas-u.
Malpas on behalf of a person' frequently men-
! tioned in the case, and whose honour , it was
1 thought might be attacked.
The younger brother of Lord Lonsdale
• (Violet Cameron’s friend) has come to a giddy end
at a shady villa in St. John’s Wood. These
Lonsdale’s are a choice lot. The late Earl, elder
brother of the above-mentioned pair, paid the in-
■ evitable penalty of his debaucheries under con-
ditions too dreadful to be told by a Zola. Hewas
’ the only member of the brotherhood who has en-
tered the- holy state of matrimony up to the pre-
■ sent time, and he entered it so drunk that his
•v groomsmen had to prop him up before the altar.
• A fourth brother, Lancelot, is now heir-presump-
I tive ■ to the coronet worn by Violet Cameron s
■ admirer, whoisreportedto.be shooting bears as
II they climb up the North Pole.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The population of N.S.W. has just doubled
during the past 15 years.
There are as many beer-houses and gin-
palaces in London as would, if their fronts were
placed side by side, reach 73 miles.
Emperoi’ Julian : “A prince is a living
law whose duty it is to temper, by his clemency,
that which dead »statutes have rendered too
rigorous.”
Said Disraelilf I saw a prize-lighter
encountering a galley-slave in irons 1 should con-
sider the combat as fair as to make England fight
hostile tariffs with free imports.”
The ex-secretary of the American legation,
at Pekin, says that, out of 400,000,000 inhabitants
of the Chinese empire, fully 300,000,000 spend less
than six shillings a month for food.
The Decentralisation League at Bathurst,
N.S.W., has gone bung. It was only introduced
by the Foreign-trade folk to direct attention from
the real want of the country—Protection.
The Sydney daily papers are now all going
•in .for reporting Protection-meetings. They sniff
./j'
w
A NARROWLY-AVERTED N.S.W. PARLIAMENTARY TRAGEDY
a change in the fiscal policy of the colony. By
„and bye there, won’t be anybody to buy a Foreign-
i trade paper.
Sir William Manning, who has just re-
tired, from, the JST.S.W. Supreme Court bench, at-
temptejd, when in Parliament in 1875, to form a
Ministry, but failed. Parkes was the man in
power at the time.
The Age says : “It is the Free-trade ring
in -Sydney which aims at keeping the colonies
apart in the vain hope that ,its fetich will not be
overthrown by theinfusron into the N.S. Wales
population of Victorian ideas. •’ *
Another colossal political scandal in
N.S.W. Mr. M‘Elhone imputes corruption in
regard to the alienation for trivial amounts of
State-owned coal-lands worth hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds, and alleges that a woman
“worked the,oracle.”
Mr. Dailey “denies that there is any
foundation for the cruel impeachment of the moral
character of the Chinese.” As regards,personal
cleanliness, a .prominent Sydney doctor says that-
the Chinese are pn the average far cleaner than
the whites who enter the hospitals.
Gladstone once, in reply to the London
brewers, said “ Gentlqmen, I cannot permit a
, question of mere revenue to be considered along
side of a question of morals; but give me a sober
.population, not wasting their earnings on strong
drinks, and I know where to get my revenue.*’
The poorest-paid of England’s State
officials is the Hampton Court Palace Ratcatcher,
who serves his Queen for £8 per annum. The
only significance attaching to this hoary billet lies
in the £B, and the fact that the present holder is a
blue-blooded old dowager, who faints at the mere
mention of a mouse.
A craze for paying over conscience-money
, seems to have seized upon this continent —about
a dozen instances have been reported from Mel- !
bourne and Adelaide. The Bulletin expects to
receive £25 from a certain N.S.W. politician be-
fore the end-of the month —if he deducts nothing
for storage.
“ The manner in which valuable time is
wasted in this House is simply atrocious, ” shouted
Tonkin, M.P., in the N.S.W. Assembly. “ Who
the time?” asked a voice from
the Opposition benches. And then, utterly
ignorant of the glorious truth he was firing off,
the Western wobbler replied, “That is my
business.
According to President Purves, of the
A.N.A., it is preposterous to talk of Britain’s
power being on the wane. Purves explains that
’it cannot be the Divine will that such should be
the ca'e ; but there’s nothing like precaution, so
if the Q, C. wants to further postpone that case we
would recommend him to apply for an injunction
restraining the Divine will.
At an A.N.A. meeting one night last
week, Lawyer Purves got up to remark that he
did not care a rap for the opinion of the
newspapers ; he wondered what the Times of the
day said about George Washington. Right here
his discourse was interrupted by a bilious-looking
man with a wild eye, who elevated his person to
direct the attention of the meeting to the fact that
G. Washington never told a lie.
Sir Henry Wrenfordsley, who seems to bo
übiquitous, has been appointed an acting judge of
the Supreme Court of Victoria during the illness
of Mr. Justice Webb. Sir Henry is quite an
in judgeships, in Western Australia, in
Fiji, in Tasmania, and now in Victoria. The Bar
in the last-named colony does pot, however, take
kindly tp the new appointment, and have not only
declined to congratulate Sir Henry, but are going
tp hold a meeting about the matter.
On an unhappy occasion last week Mr.
Burns, the gentleman who takes care of the
N.S.W. shortage, had the misfortune to go off
before he was loaded. He stated in the Assembly
that the agricultural industry was so prosperous
in Parkestralia that numbers of Victorian farmers
were pouring into the country to settle down and
be blessed ; and the very next night the unhappy
men who attempt to subsist by accelerating the
gladsopic vegetable in the Casino district sent in
a petition in which they prayed for Protection, on
the ground that under the present Foreign-trade
system they were “unable to dispose of agricul-
tural produce at prices which would afford them
even a bare livelihood. ” It is incidents like this
that make the Freetrader wish he were deceased.
Mr. Frank Suttor, formerly a Minister of
the Crown in many N.S.W. Foreign-trade Minis-
tries, delivers a lecture in Bathurst on Monday
next on Protection. Mr. Suttor has recently re-
turned from an extended trip through Europe,
and the lecture is the result of his observations on
the state of trade and manufacture at the various
centres which he has visited. The Foreign-trade
journals, however, in announcing the fact, merely
state that Mr. Suttor will deliver an address on
the present state of politics.
That important Government department,
the N.S.W. Assembly Refreshment Room, has
issued its imperial .ukase that in future no legisla-
tor shall drink on credit. Of late years an evil
practice has grown up by which a member, after
filling himself drunk, would either fight the Re-
freshment Committee for the 1 money, or would tell
them to charge it, or else would simply rise
and swear when asked for a settlement and state
that the Refreshment .Committee’s mother had
been in gaol for shaking a pie, and that it was
next door to a Chinaman. This style of business
was naturally regarded as eminently unsatisfac-
tory, and the. Committee has, therefore, resolved
to trade in future bn' a strictly cash basis. No
member shall be permitted any longer to carouse
or yell) ip the Far unless he has sufficient money
to justify his conduct, and gentlemen who decline
to settle their outstanding bills are prohibited
from getting slewed on any terms whatever, until
their accounts are settled in full.
The pressure of female competition is now
being severely felt in many branches of Aus-
tralian industry which were once reserved ex-
clusively for the male sex. In Adelaide a young
lady, who att?mpted to pass a bloated parable on
the bench by Stating that her name was Miss
Fix, has just been sentenced to a term of hard
labour for breaking into a house A number of,
Mongolians are also in gaol in various parts of
this continent for Chinese cheap burglary, and
thus the white man’s means of subsistence are
gradually drifting away.
Aboriginalities.
There was a school-committee election the
other day in a N.Z. town, and one intelligent
settler took advantage oi the opportunity to make
these remarks in his ballot-paper:—“For illite-
racy extending to the limits of sheer animal ignor-
ance, a fondness for strong drink, a prolific use of
bad language, and a dense stupidity regarding the
simplest principles of education, the candidates
stand to some extent on a common footing. Mr.
is, if possible, more thick-headed than all the
others put together, but as he is the only one of
the lot who is quiet when drunk and who seems to
mean well when he is sober, 1 give him my vote.”
•• * ■
The late Robert Frost —known through-
out the colonies as “ Old Bob Frost”—who met
with such a tragic death at Orange (N.S.W.) by
being thrown from his horse at his own gate
a fortnight ago, was one of the “whitest” men
that ever came to the country. Fifty years ago,
when a lad of 17, lie emigrated from England to
Australia, his capital consisting only of robust
youth and a manly heart. With these glorious
possessions and without a friend, he essayed life’s
battle, and to the last preserved unsullied his
name and his manhood. - Fortune, the fruit of
worthj effort, favoured him, but success did not
imbue him with selfishness. Poor old Bob Frost
was one of Nature’s noblemen ; generous, open-
handed, open-hearted; his word was taken
for thousands “without a scratch of the pen.”
He lived and died in the saddle. His simple,
successful, and manly life is worthy of emulation
by every true Australian.
- *
Samoan cricket, even if unscientific, is
exciting. The game was introduced to the island
about three years ago by the officers of H.M.S.
Diamond, but the Samoan “sports ” at once saw
there was room for improvement. The ordinary
rales didn’t suit their ideas, and there was a ten-
dency to social restriction about limiting the
number of players in a game to 22 which got the
niggers’ democratic backs up in a hump. To
smooth matters, therefore, all rules were abolished
and matches were played with teams numbering
not less than 250 players aside. The matches
lasted for months, all work was indefinitely post-
poned, and the scores ran up to such alarming
figures that the tallest trees in the island
were not long enough to hold the notches
cut for the runs. The first reference to the
umpire’s decision was immediately followed by a
“belt’’from a half-ton club which rendered, his
decision filial, so far' as he was concerned, and
then, the different sides dropped their cricketing
tools, caught up their war materials, and started a
free fight, and this, in its turn, gave way to a free
feed, in which the victors and the'vanquished were
“ blended ” in a manner peculiar to the good old
days when “ long pig ” was piece de resistance at
every social gathering. Having “satisfied the
inner man ” (a popular cannibalistic phrase) fresh
players were rounded up to complete the-requisite
number on each side, and then-' the manly game
went ahead again de novo. Owing to a growing
dislike of the Samoans to fill the onerous position
of umpire, cricket has fallen off a deabof late, but
the announcement that a shipload of Chinese will
shortly arrive at Samoa, and be utilised in the '
position named, is calculated to infuse new life
into the game.
At a recent country show some tall frauds
were perpetrated. The prize bull has since been
discovered to have been—like a town beauty—a
made-up affair. The horns were false, and certain
other “ points ” were only the device of man. An
Ayrshire cow was also discovered to possess a
gutta-percha tail, and a black-faced sheep had its
nose painted “ to give it style,”
* * •
Henry Nash, who recently suicided at
Grenfell, N.S.W., was one of the pioneers of the
Weddin Mountains goldfields, as Grenfell was
originally named. Nash was a shareholder in the
old Oriental claim, and when he retired from
mining," and started a boot-store, he named it the
Oriental. Poor old fellow ! although he once had
plenty of. money, large pecuniary troubles drove
him in his grey-headed days to a suicide’s grave.
<* *
Up in the shining Daintree River (Q.)
there lives an old alligator who is understood to
have eaten 14 Chinamen within the past six
months. We are always glad to hear that an
honest and persevering animal is getting on nicely,
but we fear this is an isolated instance. During
our wanderings in the remote North we have
known many struggling alligators which hardly
tasted a Chinaman once in a year, and unless
something is done we must look forward with re-
gret to the time when the great and valuable in-
dustry of Chinamen being eaten by alligators will
languish and ultimately fade away for ever.
* * •
One of the aborigines of a Victorian mis-
sion station had a bad back, and applied at
headquarters for advice. A porous-plaster was
given him, and the nigger retired to his hut. He
returned in about half an-hour, and, tossing the
partially-chewed poultice on to the table, grimaced
horribly, and said, “ Can’t eat it that pfeller, gib
it sweet one !”
• * •
Give me a draught from the crystal stream
That floweth so bright and deep,
But, please, fill the pint from the opposite side,
To dodge the decaying sheep.
* * *
He was a young man of literary habits,
barring the drink. He was “just out,” but.
having a fine lumpy head and some descriptive
talent, he soon secured an appointment-on the
staff of the Wycheproof (Vic.) Ensign. Two days
later he was missing. The landlady who bored
and fed him was interviewed, and she stated that
her boarder had, developed symptoms of insanity -
on r the previous evening, and had wandered
mechanically into the forest, under the impression
that he was a paddymelon’s uncle. A search-
party then went and scoured the wilderness, and,
as the twilight was fading into darkness, they
came upon the lost scribe. He was leaning against
a tree, and gibbering faintly, while his eyes were
fixed with a stony glare upon a note-book, in
which the following names were inscribed—
“ Teddywaddy, Wirmbechip, Ninyeunock, Bud-
gerum, Shmglehut, Nullawil, Kalpeenung, Quam-
batook, Carapugna, Bungeeluke, Cooroopajerrup,
To waninnie, Tilly bong.” These are the names of
the townships in which, according to a notice dis-
played over its leading .article, the Ensign circu
lates. The new-chum was attached to a string, and
gently led away to the nearest asylum, and ten
doctors are busy re-hinging his intellect.
At Mark Young’s Bier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.


ft WfPfNMi
A/oTIfCRy Fak
Jo[?]
J. B. (loq:): “IF SOMEBODY DOESN'T [?]


WMi-f/oV m
IPE-
g
s&i
[?]ll's Fix.
[?]NTER I’M AFRAID I’LL BREAK THIS OLD POT.”


FRECKLES
can be effectually eradicated by
the use of Clements’ Frecklebane
Frecklebane is the only reliable cure. ,
Post free from the inventor, F. M. Clements, 141 King
Street,'Newtown. N.S.W., for 2s. IGrl. N.S.W. stamps or
POO. Sold b\ V\ ,sl ■ myt l ■»' nl a. 1 1* 1 all on* nust-S
U<?ware of *oitklVnK iuniatioi.g.
A Slight Mistake.— lt turns out the person charged
with personating a detective was innocent. At the time
the constable arrested him he was busy in his garden
sprinkling his flowers. After some conversation, the con-
stable asked him his name, and the person thinking he
asked, “What is the name of that?” meaning the liquid,
replied, “ Detective Soap.” Hence the arrest. The
prisoner was discharged. The S.M. remarked on the value
of Detective and said nodoubt the insects and srmbs
were arrested in their rivals on the flowers.*
Study your own interest by using Pemell’3 Snow-white
Patent Roller Floor. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The finality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.**
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED'
Established 1853.
Are as usual showing the largest and
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low prices
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED
Special attention is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable Instru--
xnents: —
mil and legume PIANOS,
The Wonderful VICTOR FIANOS.
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESIET & Co. AMERICAN ORGANS,
New and improved models of other makers
Just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtained Elsewhere.
Unstrated catalogues mailed on application, but
enquirers are requested to give SOME IDEA Of
the class Of instrument reqtiired si) as to enSUrS
receiving a suitable reply.
W.H. PALING 4 GO-, Ltd,
15 r OffOROK STREET, three Doors from 0.P.0i
Society
Mrs. Eleanor Christian, who recently
filled 25 pages of the new Templk Bar with “Recol-
lections of Charles Dickens” (some of them being
decidedly rough on Charles, too), says : “ There
are two species of husbands who are difficult to
live with —the genius and the fool. Perhaps the
chances of happiness are greater with the fool.”
This should console quite a crowd of women.
*
In the case Cobb and Co. v. the Govern-
ment of N.S.W., the question at issue being the
value of a large number of railway-sleepers, Salo-
mons, Q.C., for the defendants says “ Here are
four gentlemen upon the jury who in all proba-
bility never saw a sleeper outside their own con-
nubial couches !” And Mr. Justice Stephen, who
presided, did not even smile. -
* * •
“ A Barmaid,” writing to the daily Press
on Pastor Jefferis’ lecture on “Bars,” says that
‘ * the presence of a woman behind the counter of a
respectable hotel helps to fraise the tone of it, as
there are few men who will not pay a little de-
ference to a woman.” That may be “A Bar-
maid’s ” experience of the men who drink in
hotels; but if she only attended some of the anti-
liquor sermons in the churches she would have
found at least a few men who pay precious little
deference to the sex to which their mothers,,be-
longed, judging by the wholesale manner in which
they traduce and malign women whom necessity
compels to labour for their daily bread behind a
bar. “ A Barmaid ” goes on to say
“ As Dr. Jefleris objects to this occupation for women,
perhaps he will suggest some better employment for
them, as there seems to be a difficulty in their obtaining
other situations. A friend of the writer’s applied to a
lady (?) for a situation as servant, but when she stated
that she had been a barmaid the Pharisee, who had been
sufficiently gracious so far, exclaimed, ‘ Oh, dear, that
would never suit me,’ and drew her skirts around her as
if she feared that barmaidism was contagious.”
A wealthy Geelong lady, whose modest
antipathy to male society had become a local pro-
verb, recently succumbed to the subtle influence
of love, and changed her name on the strict Q.T.
She lived with her sisters in a sequestered strong-
hold, conducted somewhat on the lines of Princess
Ida’s castle. Rude man seldom or never set foot
within this virgin retreat, the butcher being in-
structed to shove his legs of mutton into a hole in
the garden-wall, while the baker slung crusty ones
over the outer ten-barred gate. Everything con-
nected with the establishment was of a strictly
female character, save the coachman, and thereby
hangs our tale. The youngest member of the
sisterhood contrived to get married a while back,
after which her liege lady—the eldest spinster—
began to observe strong points about matrimony
which she had neglected to take into consideration
for the last 40 years. It became necessary for her
to find a love surpassing the love of woman, and
as there was no other male, persuasion but the
coachman within cooee, she endowed Jehu with
the hoard of warm affection that had accumulated
in her bosom up to date. Yes, ladies, the rich
and respected Miss — ; — married her coachman,
and if you can’t find any cause or just impedi-
ment why these people should not be joined toge-
ther in holy matrimony—for Heaven's sake don’t
say “Who’d have thoughtit?” We are always pre-
pared to think any mortal thing, so long as that
naughty little Cupid is allowed to roam at large.
*
Sir Salmon Wilson is descended from
Alfred the Great, and the yawning mouth of the
scoffer is stopped right up with the hard potato of.
fact. Someone has written a book to remind us
that in the 20th generation every man has more
than a million of ancestors, a circumstance which
carries with it the moral certainty that all Eng-
lishmen of this generation are descendants of
Alfred, also of the woman who cut up rough
when he burnt her cakes. William the Norman
stands as ancestor to both our Bobs—Nosey and
the Baron —provided they are not of Chinese or
other foreign extraction. In point of solemn fact
the average Englishmen can show more Norman
blood than the Prince of Wales, if you were to
prick each of ’em with a blunt pin, while every
true-born Irishman can claim descent from a
whole cartlead of decayed monarchs. It is quite
pleasant to reflect that nobody (except Chinamen
and niggers) is destitute of a progenitor who wore
a crown and did something to the map of Europe.
* " *
A Bowen (Q.) journalist writes: “We
are blessed or otherwise by two or three gentle-
men just now, though I think one of them is
only a bird of passage.” It is rather rough on a
town when the press thinks it necessary to draw
attention to the unwonted presence of two cr
three gentlemen.
• « •
Major Dane kays that New Zealand con-
tains six wholesale jewellery establishments
while Boston (U.S.), with about the same popula-
tion as Maoriland, is content with one such. The.
swell American women, however, live much nearer
London and Paris than the belles of Auckland and
Hokitika.
, • *
Miss Amy Sherwin, according to the Mel-
bourne Herald, caught a cold which settled on
her wrist, at the last vice-regal ball. Poor Amy
must have clutched Lady Loch’s hand when it
was a bit damp.
p * *
A Melbourne man, who was charged with
maliciously assaulting his neighbour, pleaded that
plaintiff offered to kick his (prisoner’s) mother-in-
law. We are pleased to say that this man got six
weeks’ with hard labour, and nearly every married
man in the suburb has invited plaintiff home ter
tea. Virtue is its own reward.
’. • •
The S. M. Herald, in re the now cele-
brated Castler eagh - street “ disorderly-house ” case
S ay S “We are left with the edifying spectacle
of a Criminal Court engaged in inquiry into a
nuisance which has to be discovered by social
purity which must first of all bore a hole in the
wall.”
* •
Dunn and Browne were the names of a
couple were recently married in Dunedin
(N.Z.) “Kommentis kneedless.”
A Tasmanian paper says that Essie Jenyns
is bound to make a name for herself. Alas !we
suppose she will be marrying one of these fine
days.
At Broken Hill (N.S. W.) cemetery there
are always several graves dug “on spec.,” await-
ing occupants—usually typhoid victims.
A picture of American luxuriousness :
“ Mrs. Hioks-Lord created a sensation at a Washington
reception, the other evening, by appearing in an armour
of jewels. Her famous £50,000 necklace encircled her
throat. She wore a pair of earrings probably not equalled
in this country. Her bodice was a perfect mass of jewels.
Her gems glittered in the gaslight like rain-drops in the
sun. The design of many of them was unique. One
splendid spray represented a cluster of wild roses, live
petals of each rose being five diamonds of similar size and
shape. Another was a spray of fuchsias, formed of hun-
dreds of small and large diamonds, about a dozen huge
stars, and almost as many crescents. She also wore an
open fan covered with diamonds in her hair. Each side
of the fan shows 15 raised plaits, and the whole is studded
with diamonds, beautifully matched in colour and size.
The gems in the raised plaits are larger than those which
enrich the depressed ones, and stones upon the comb
range in size from one to five carats each. Mrs. Lord
owns a fan of the finest white point d’Alenyon, combin-
ing flowers, leaves, and lyres in a manner anything but
conventional. The sticks are of white figures, enriched with
gold ornamentations, the outer one being embellished with
hearts, lyres, and other designs in gold of different Colours.
The fan is to be worn suspended from a chain of diamonds
and pearls ’ Her salts-bottle is a dainty little piece of
work in rich yellow gold. It hangs suspended by a gold
chain, fastened to an ancient cameo brooch.”
And, meanwhile, the locked out workman is
sharpening his knife on the stone which the Hicks-
Lords have given him for bread.
* * *
Private G. M. Yance, of B Company,
N.S.W. Contingent, was recently decorated —or
insulted —with the Khedive star at Cootamundra,
and in returning thanks, proudly observed : “ I
Ac 1 ' i
fjd Stiffs or/ veKy
WtL 1 - irfp£EO
A DISASTROUS COURTSHIP.
did not go to the Soudan for mercenary purposes,
but to avenge the death of General Gordon.” This
is the first time we have heard that General
Gordon was killed by a goat. Vance, however, is
much in advance of several members of the
Contingent we know who went to the Soudan
solely in order to keep themselves out of the
N.S.W. Supreme Court s divorce jurisdiction, and
out of the debtors’-prison.
• • *
The Melbourne clergy are going in for the
practice of medicine to an alarming extent. By-
and-bye we may hear of the doctors, in self-de-
fence, taking to theology, and then such names as
the Rev. L. L. Smith, D.D., M.D., &c., &c,, &c.,
and the Very Reverend and Venerable J. G.
Beaney, F.R.C.S., will become familiar as house-
hold words. #
' .Dear Bulletin,— You had a little par.
lately about Sarah Bernhardt being a humbug
with her pictures, statues, books, and verses.
You know, this sort of gratuitously envious lie is
always said of anyone who is not hopelessly
mediocre, on all lines but one, but The Bulletin
must not be the paper to say it. Now, in this
ease, I happen to be able to assert myself that
most of the thing is sheer untruth. I saw Sarah
paint (among other pictures) most of her weird
study, “La Mart et la Jeune Filled which was
one of the finest creations in, I think, the 1880
Salon. I also several times saw her. modelling in
clay. Of her charming powers of writing I once
had several specimens, unhappily lost in one of
Whiteley s periodic fires with other letters as
precious. When I was in Paris, a mere lad and a
perfect stranger, this woman received me with a
simple cordiality which I can never forget, and
that cordiality never wavered through many
months of acquaintanceship and, I may even say,
friendship. I know two men who have just the
same tale to tell. Oscar Wilde once called her to
me “la Cleopatre de notre siecle.” Is that the
reason why every man thinks he has a right to
slander the one genuinely great actress of our day,
and a woman whose loyalty to her friends, no less
than her relatives, is a passion? I knew and
reverenced her too well to stand by silent while
anyone worth the answering does this. - F. A.
•
The other day a well-known lover of pic-
tures stepped into a crockery-ware shop in Par-
ramatta-street, Sydney, and while there heard a
tremendous crash at the other-end of the room. A
picture was lying face downwards on the floor.
The shopkeeper picked it up and anathematised
it. It was old, dirty, grimed, cob-webbed,
awkward, and a nuisance. It was, moreover, he
said, always tumbling down, and breaking some-
thing just as valuable as itself. Certain of its
dim outlines and mystic chiaroscuros appealed to
the artistic sympathies of the customer. “ What
do you want for it ? ” said he. “ You can have
it for (is. and glad to get rid of it.” He bore it
home and cleaned it a little. Next day a friend
offered him £3 for it, and, being refused, came
the day after and offered him £l5. A new ar-
rival dropped in and pounced upon the picture.
He was prepared to give £2OO. In a vague flutter
of pleasurable excitement the owner took Ids
treasure to a Sydney connoisseur, who studied it
for three days, and then oracularly said : “ You
have in your possession a rare piece of Biblical art
by one of the oldest masters. Its value is pro-
bably a couple of thousand pounds.”
• * *
A New Zealand municipal council adver-
tised recently for a clerk, and the applications
came in like the advance of a mighty whale in the
deep. Then one of the councillors arose and sug-
gested, in a grief-stricken tone, that they should
reject all the candidates who were recommended
by clergymen, and this proposal being accepted
the whole load of correspondence was consigned
to the dust-hole, barring only one letter. The
author of this intimated frankly that he hadn’t
any parson to back him up, but he submitted that
he was a Sheol of an accountant, and was willing
to hustle like the very devil in the service of the
corporation, and this airy frankness took so well
that he got the position at once. It was only after
he started work that he was discovered to be a
local preacher himself; and now there is a vacancy
over in New Zealand for a genuine sinful book-
keeper who has no conscience and never goes to
church, and always keeps his cash-balance square.
A new-made wife had a cheerful ex-
perience the other day down South. She married
a farmer of Diggora (Vie.), and the day after ar-
riving at her new home, she was waited on_ by a
few jocund strangers, who dipped her head into a
bucket of tar. The bride is now soaking in a
kerosene bath, and her hubby is hunting the cul-
prits with a broad axe. Should he come up. with
them, they will catch a Tartar, too.
During a sitting of the Metropolitan Land
Board, held in Melbourne a week or two back, the
examination of applicants was conducted by a
dreamy individual with a bald spot and a glass in
his eye. A blonde female of about 20 summers
ambled into the arena to answer her catechism.
The official interrogator yawned fearfully, and,
awaking to a vague sense of his duties, commenced
as usual, “Married or single?” “Single,” lisped
the sweet young thing. “ How many children?”
Then came the crash. The questioner dodged, a
window was broken, and the young woman’s
hysterics lasted one hour and forty minutes by the
watch.
• * •
The barmaid must go. A Melbourne
mechanic has invented an automatic drink-dis-
penser which hands out any liquor required, front
a lemon-squash to a “ long-sleever,” on the re-
quired cash being placed in the slot. When this
machine comes into general use it will be the
means of stopping many gorgeous dudes from
Piccadilly from “ marrying [below their station,
dontcherknow.”
• *
Advt. from Sydney daily
TYOULD a Gentleman Correspond with the Woman
* ' anxious to improve herself ? Nemo, P.O.
Wm-st.
The Marquis of Queensberry appears to
have come out to Australia in the capacity of
travelling patron of the Gaiety Burlesque Com-
pany. The noble Marquis is chiefly at home in
private boxes—pugilistic and theatrical. He
dotes on the leg-drama and reveres prize-fighting*
is a boisterous freethinker to the extent of his
thinking powers, and has a sister —Lady Florence
Dixie—who keeps a pet panther, and once told a
hair-raising yarn as to an attempt on her life by
some non-existent Fenians. -If this hereditary
lawmaker will introduce a fresh set of rules for
knocking out the House of Peers we will call him
blessed ; meantime we can only commend him to
the care of Jack Burke and Larry Foley and pass
sorrowfully on.
* * - •
A “ Maskell Memorial Fund,” raised im-
mediately after that unfortunate engine-driver
met his death in the Windsor smash, has resulted
in nothing up to date. Subscribers are now de-
manding their money or the tombstone.
* • *
A statue of General Gordon is to be
erected on a prominent site in Melbourne by a
little clique of imagemakers which calls itself
“ The People of Victoria.” These persons might
have turned their attention to Gordon, the poet,
if they wanted to set up a Gordon so badly.
A magistrate’s missus named Rappiporb
Is a lady who ought to be happy, for
She’s discharged as “ insane”
When she snavels a chain—
Which they’d lock up a commonplace chappie for.
* * *
A destructive storm recently passed in the
vicinity of Watertown, Dakota Territory. A
number of settlers lost nearly everything. A re-
lief committee went out from Watertown the next
morning to look up the sufferers. One of the
worst cases was that of a woman who had a small
house directly in the path of the cyclone, and who
had lost everything, with the exception of a dress
which she had hurriedly slipped on when awakened
by the storm. Some of the lady members of the
committee visited her at a neighbour’s house.
“So you have lost everything ?” one of them said.
“Everything I had in the world except the dress
I have on.” “House and furniture all blown
away?” - “Yes.” “ Your clothing all goneexcept
that dress?” “ Everything—even my shoes and
stockings.” “Well, we have come out to do
something for you people who were so unfortunate
as to be struck by the cyclone. What will you
want first in the way of clothing?” “Well,” re-
plied the woman, “ I feel very grateful for your
kindness. If you’ll just give me a bustle, I think
I can stir around and earn the rest of the things I
need myself. ” —Murkan Perjury.
* * *
Somebody bequeathed property to “De-
mon ” Spofforth, so the tall and slender legatee
has shaken the dust of Australia from his con'j
temptuous feet and gone forth to spend his money
in the England which didn’t give him birth. This
melancholy event was celebrated by a banquet at
the Oriental Hotel, Melbourne, on Thursday last,
when “Billy” Murdoch and a cricketing
company duly greased the golden calf. Aus
tralian cricket has done much for Spof.—
lifted him from the dull level of a common
place bank-teller to the proud pinnacle of
transient fame—and a solemn conviction that the
“Demon” is not a patriot comes o’er our senses
stealing. Peeping into the hazy future, methinks
we read of F. Spofforth, Esq., C.M.G., talking
Imperial Federation at the Colonial Institute.
• *
The Jubilee address from dear Lady Loch
and the Women of Victoria appears to have got
there. An official letter from Sir Henry Loch to
Lady Loch called her ladyship’s attention to an
enclosed letter addressed to Sir Henry Loch by a
nobleman who was present when Her Gracious
admired the get-up of that same address. After
which Lady Loch and the Women of Victoria
begged to acknowledge the letter from Sir Henry
Loch, calling attention to the gratifying com-
munication from the other nobleman who was
present when the Queen gave this further proof of
her gracious appreciation of Australian loyalty.
Steward, We are—ugh ! —so ill!
* * *
The Melbourne Herald interviewer de-
serves well of Baronet Clarke. Oh paper that
amiable Crcesus was made to pour forth an unin-
terrupted column of “opinions” on Separation,
Federation, Moderation, Foreign Powers, Political
Economy, and the Chinese Question with the
steady pertinacity of an old Dutch clock. On
paper the Baronet didn’t even want jogging up
with a “ What course would you recommend,.Sir
William?” or a curt “Quite so, Sir William.”
He just talked away by the yard (of paper) until,
“ thanking Sir William Clarke for this expression
of his views, our representative withdrew.” But
no one who has heard the Lord of Rupertswood—-
as threepenny rags usually call him—stammer
and blush over a three-line speech, prepared


When next yon bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roixsa Ki.omi, and your bread wtl be a? white as snow.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whitk Patbmt Roller Flour is the
best in the market.*
Everybody should use Pemel’s latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Brighton Beach Hotel, Coney Island,
N.Y., which has been imperilled by encroachments
of the sea, has been successfully moved 100 feet
inland by placing it on 120 railway cars drawn by
locomotives upon parallel rails. The hotel covers
92,000 square feet, being 400 feet long, and it
weighs 5000 tons. . It was lifted on to huge
timbers which rested on the cars. Large crowds
from New York viewed this novel spectacle.
That well-known mining speculatrix, Miss
Alice Cornwell (Mrs, John Whiteman, otherwise
the “ Princess Midas,”) who assorts that she wap
“ never afraid of anything in her life ” (mouse ?)
has been interviewed. She has been to Mount
Morgan mine, and says, amongst other things,
that when the owners thereof get their new plant
at work they will pay not less than a million a
year in dividends. They have an immense quan-
tity of stone waiting for the machinery—some-
thing like 60,000 tons, all carefully proved by
assay to be worth from Boz. to lOoz. per ton.
Manager Hall, Miss Cornwell says, is a wonderful
man. His heart and soul are in the mine, and he
has got the chlorination works to such perfec-
tion that he is sure he won’t lose three grains per
ton. Very few men with such a share in the mine
would stay among those hills to do the work he
does. There are about 500 men employed on the
mine in one way or another, but the ore is so
easily got and the quantity that can be put
through is relatively so small that four men break
enough ore to keep them going. There is at least
three years’ work in sight, and before they cut
down the hill it will take them 30 years. Although
the ore is so rich, gold is seldom visible in it,
and constant assays are made in order to see that
bands of valueless “ dyke ” stuff of almost pre-
cisely similar appearance are not stacked with the
good ore. Mr. Hall is a careful man—indeed, a
pessimistic man. He has had assays which will go
as high as lOOoz. to the ton, but he takes no notice
of those, but only relies on what he gets in bulk.
They have now a magnificent plant, and they say
the stone they are putting through is simply the
refuse, as they cannot treat the richest of the ; r
ore without mixing it with that which is poorer.
beforehand on the back of a card, will swallow
this Herael) interview in its integrity. What Sir
William really did, say is known only to “onr re-
presentative” and Heaven. Probably he said
nothing at all, while the scribe divined his
thoughts. And just here we will rise to mention
that there are few grander sources- of inspiration
than a full view of the baronet’s bald-head. With
such a piece of furniture in front of him the
Herald man was justified in slapping down a
shorthand summary of what might have been if it
had come to pass.
* * *
The belle of a popular New South Wales
town is one of three sisters, legitimate daughters
of a full-blooded, aboriginal woman, the father
having been at one time a high Government
official, and connected with good families in
Sydney.
• * *
Anyone Contemplating suicide by arsenic
is advised to hold off for a bit, because a syndicate
lias Worked a “corner” in this particular pizon,
and sent up the price something dreadful. Ladies
suffering from blotches are much affected by this
rise in their face-restorer, but corpses who bought
the fatal dose at a low figure are chuckling over
their foresight.
« • #
The Earl of Buckinghamshire’s brief court-
ship has been brought to a blissful termination at
the altar-steps’. He landed a Scotch heiress and
will not travel with picture galleries, on commis-
sion, ever again.
A Worthing (Eng.) draper is advertising
for a “consecrated Christian lady, accepting
full salvation,” to sell his hrtsiery. There is any
amount of this pious blasphemy connected with
the drapery trade owing to the spiritual influence
of Spring novelties. Drapers,, we observe, have a
check system which prevents full Salvationists
from laying their sanctified hands on the cash.
The publican, considerably dependent on the
honesty of his employees, never advertises for a
“ redeemed soul to assist in the bar,” or a child of
grace to do the cellar-work.
« * •
Nhill (Vic.) is a place where they do things
on a lavish scale. About a month ago it became
known that a prominent gentleman of wide hospi-
tality, who had dined and drinked the residents
for several long years, was about to leave the dis-
trict ; and a committee of his friends thereupon
organised a “complimentary tripe 'supper ” in the
local Masonic Hall, and forgot to ask him to drop
in. His name was Alfred O’Hooligan Michael
Patrick Dineen, but this -hasn’t anything to do
with the case, for he wasn’t there. His friends
rolled up- a few of them but the tripe looked
lonely in the festive hall, and the gravy had a
melancholy slosh in the depths of the big jug, and
- the forks had a hollow rattle as they reached, for
the inside of the cow, and the speeches fell flatter
than the crinkly trips which is a murky viand and
calculated to sit heavily on the midnight chest.
A half-formed idea floated through the minds of
the committee that they might send along some
tripe and an apology to the guest, but the inspira :
tion died a natural death, and the company
doddered homewards at an early hour and went tc
bed.
The Queen of Servia has forsworn her cus-
tom of taking Walks abroad incog, and unat-
tended. Recently a couple of naughty men,
lying in wait for beauty at fashionable street-
corners, made a treasonable attempt to mash Her
Majesty. When they had coughed gently, and
said : “ We’ve been expecting you all the morn-
ing, my dear,” their Sovereign Lady bolted into a
bun-shop for protection. She ultimately escapee
to Court in a cab and fainting condition, and the
King is now prowling about, with the roya
sceptre concealed under his waistcoat, looking for
those two too loving subjects.
« * *
The Freethinkers are making capital out
of the alleged fact that a leading member of the
Social Purity Society once took a rather prominent
part in a divorce-case. They say he is not a
proper person to guard public morals. Whal
nonsense ! He is just the one to detect social im-
purists. You see, he knows the symptoms.
♦ •
A London sewing-machine man has volun-
teered to take over the Queen's Bounty, anc
British mothers of triplets can now get a certain
£3 machine by applying at the shop, instead of
hanging round Windsor Castle in the forlorn ex-
pectation of a doubtful two “ quid.” The triplet
industry, in danger of collapsing owing to the
recent reduction in the royal bonus, is looking up
once more.
•* - *
Mrs, Innocent, wife of a Chinese mis-
sionary, in a private letter, tells a curious story of
child marriage in ( China. A boy and a.girl were
betrothed in their infancy, and the girl who has
now grown up has become a Christian. The
bridegroom has recently claimed her, whereupon
the missionary induced him to forego his claim for
the moderate sum of 20s.
Through a decree of the Central Board of
Health,of Melbourne the Anglican Synod will be
put to great expense and forced to spoil the
_contour of their new cathedral-by knocking a few
more holes in it to provide the legal space for
egress. The Church authorities only considered
the extreme difficulty of_getting people into church;
the Board of Health, on the contrary, considers
their extreme anxiety to get out.
*,■ * *
First woman ; “ That handsome man is an
acquaintance of yours, I see." Second Woman ;
“ Yes, I have known him for some time.” “ Is he
married or unmarried?" “He's a commercial
traveller."
R. A. Proctor says that even when a
woman is 50 years old she has a quartet of one
per cent, average chance of matrimony.
“ Were you in liquor, sir 1” queried a Port
Melbourne J.P. of a Jack Tar, who was witness
in an assault case a short time back. “No, yer
Warship,” grinned the tar, “th’ liquor was in
THE CENTENNIAL SHOW.
A muddle with exhibits
For the coming Melbourne show, sirs,
The Commissioners prohibits
From a-doing all they know, sirs ;
Here’s a timely admonition
Which we beg you to remember—
P*raps that august Exhibition
Won’t be open till September.
Whack-fol-lay.
[?]
846 Macquarie street North) Sydney, June 18; 1888.
My Dear MOorabisda, —Marriage nlust he very
desirable when people pay for advertisements like the fol-
lowing, which t cull from a recent Sydney Morning
HeßalD, where it appeared like a sentimental snigger on
the withered cheek of that strictly “ commercial” issue;—
IV/TATRIMONY. —A mother wishes to introduce her
Daughter, age if), to a Schoolmaster, Business
Man, or Salesman, not under 22. Address Truth,
P. 0., Redfern.
And oh, what a docile daughter to engineer—one ready on
the briefest possible notice to fall in love with a school-
master, business man, or salesman, not under 22 ! and
marry him, nem. con . ! Love with this girl (or her
mother) must be intensely material—synonymous, indeed,
with food, fire, lodging, clothes, and protection, and I
really think that if women are so anxious to barter them-
selves for a wedding-ring, both publicly and in private,
the least a sympathising corporation could do is to erect
- /\cr 2-
/\r*o *o^*
hao •f'lWot /*
W%t</
c. o c ,£f y v * no
*AQ TaKC*' 'l'hE
* , e* < HoJStT
A DISASTROUS COURTSHIP.
a market where these hymeneal aspirants of merely sordid
tendencies could be on view daily, from 10 till 4 1 I have
read that in the good old days girls used to be put on
sale in rows at Parramatta Factory !
Another striking S.M.H. advt. was that of a lady who
wanted to board with a “homely Christian family,” and I
don’t think she’ll have much difficulty in “ kicking her
goal ” (pardon ! it’s the football season, just now) for all
the ostentatious pietists I have ever seen were strikingly
homely'. I have often thought, “in meditative mood in-
clined,’ that it’s just possible their homeliness has some-
thing to do with their piety !
The Sydney Hunt Club had a large attendance on the
2nd, the proceedings being rendered doubly delightful by
the presence of several Dianas as lookers-on, while Miss
Lamb, Miss Perry, and Miss K. Lloyd were in at the
death. Frank Farnell, M.P., also cavorted over the
timber on a snorting charger, and Mr. Waldron (master)
on “Cracker” was, as Mrs. Malaprop would say, the
sinecure of all eyes.
Talking of Mrs. Malaprop, they have a Mr. Malaprop—
he is a Minister of the Crown—over in South Australia.
Recently he visited the city where the Chinese mustn’t
land, and, the question of street tree-planting being
mooted, somebody asked him how elm and beech trees
would answer for the purpose. “.Not at all,” replied the
worthy M.P. at once; “beech and elm make a regl’ar
mess of your pavements. They’re so insidious !"
Lady Carington will be At Home on the l'4th, and as
that is the day after St. Vincent’s ball, I daresay weary
faces and limp demeanours will predominate at Govern-
ment House.
On sth inst., on the occasion of the first Sydney Re-
union of the season ’BB, Nithsdale rooms were bright
with fair women, who, for a wonder, were outnumbered
by the sterner sex. Several wearable frocks took the
floor. Mrs. Leonard Cooper, in French-grey silk with
side-panel of hand-painted white, velvet; Mrs. Cunning-
hame, heliotrope, with streamers of mauve and cream ;
Miss Kent, in a gown from Redfern, the London artist—a
delicious construction of black lace, silk, and passemen-
terie ; a graceful fiancee, in black silk, gauze, and jupe of
beading; a white tulle skirt and white satin bodice,
chastely ornate with silver embroidery ; and a deep, elec-
tric-grey, uniquely trimmed with deep crushed-straw-
berry velvet, struck me most. A gown that also impressed
me—but not so favourably as the foregoing—was a
queerly-constructed yellow veiling—of the crudest tone
and without trimming of any kind—severely, hideously
simple. In re minor details I may venture to submit that
the floor was smooth as a bald head, the music worthy of
Orpheus, and the supper (by Callaghan) was so well done
that I'm sure—pardon the atrocity—that the committee
will (’allaghain.
During the past Centennial celebrations, as a fait
visitor from Melbourne was doing George-street one after-
noon, a “ swell,” got up in oreaseless pants, toothpick
boots, glossy beaver, and all the numberless so-ons of strict
“masherdom,” approached her, hat in hand, apologising,
but really, he was sure, positive actually, they had met
before, donoherknow. She eyed him over comprehen-
sively, and then, with the dawn of a cruel recognition in
her eye, she remarked : “ We perhaps really have, sir,
according to your notions, but I do not by any means con-
sider that I have 1 met ’ every man who has sold needles
and ribbon to me over drapers’ counters in Melbourne.”
And then he departed.
Let me suggest that those who are, during the awful
process of learning to skate, frequently distributed
on the rink in unperpendicular attitudes, should adopt
for the occasion all dark-coloured (say navy-blue) under-
wear, so that when our skating sister tries to stand on
her head our impressions should rather be absolutely
vague than cruelly definite. Don’t you think so ?
It is not generally known that that somewhat select
gathering, the Sydney School of Industry ball, is quite an
historic event. It has been held regularly every year for
fifty years, more or less, and many of the ladies and
gentlemen who take part in it annually bear surnames
which I find mentioned in an almanac almost half a
century old as those of the Committee and guests in the
early thirties. This year it took place on the
6th instant; it was attended by all the local
fashionables, and was a spleiidid success, espe-
cially in the eyes of those who, having attended
the rather dreary Liedertafel entertainment given
on the same night, needed something to invigorate
their spirits. Lady Garington looked her very best in a
simple sort of gown of ciel blue with diamond ornaments.
Cream, ivory and white predominated. Black had a fair
following and I didn’t see one red dress, which was some-
what remarkable, considering that of sixty-seven women
who came out of church together on a recent Sunday
there were but four (two of these latter being in mourn-
ing) who didn’t wear red in their hats.
A well-known Sydney man took a pretty widow in to
supper at the aforesaid School of Industry ball, and she in
eating' jelly with a fork contrived to drop some of the
trembling delicacy on to the end of her snowy neck.
While she was engaged in hastily and confusedly picking
it out again her cavalier said unto her (referring to the
errant jelly): “O, give me that /” What do you think
of the compliment ? I haven’t heard anything neater for
a whole week.
The sturdy and enduring Englishmen again beat the
Cornstalks at football last Saturday, although the men in
claret made six points and in the first part of the homi-
cidal game were two points ahead of the men of beef and
beer, whose “ passing” is a perfect marvel. There ! Can’t
I write football 1 A large number of women flocked to the
match. A heliotrope cashmere (I am talking as if a dress
and a woman were one and the same thing, and I really
believe they are) with jupe of checked silk and velvet-
heliotrope Gainsborough hat en suite, made a pretty cos-
tume. A small woman in a Boulanger hat, with fierce
cock’s feathers, in the front looked absolutely ferocious
Two invisible-green cloth gowns, pinked out, rough
straw hats simply trimmed with matching rib-
bons, were very lady-like—a word one cannot often ap-
ply just now. One of the prettiest women on the lawn
wore black silk, red hat, and brown fur boa. A dove-
colour, tailor-built gown, with red hat and parasol and
those awful tan boots, was A la mode, and a purple velvet
and “yaller” (there is a subtle difference ’twixt “yel-
low ” and “ yaller ”) bonnet was not at all de rigueur.
Nor was an azure plush dolmanette, theatrically and
lavishly embroidered in gold thread. Nor a gorgeous
emerald-green plush-and-satin turn-out, sported by a
fair and festive damsel with “ gig-lamps.” An obvious
pilgrim from Pall Mall yawned against the railings in a
light suit of quarter-acre sub-division checks—they’re
English, you know—and another exile from Europe
smoked a big cigar even on the Stand 1
Whilst I was lunching at Gunsler’s recently, a
howling swell came in dressed right up to his super-
cilious eyebrows, and began to “talk big” to another
disgusted pilgrim from Yewrope about what a beastly
“howwid place Awstraliah was—no sassiety for a gentle-
man, dontchewknow; and what the dooce was the use of
having money if there was nowhere to spend it like a gen-
tleman amongst gentlemen ?” Here the haughty noble
took a dive at his plate, and—(l almost shrieked) —ac-
tually put his knife into his well-bred mouth 1 A quiet-
looking person in blue spectacles, who had listened to the
high-toned monologue, interposed here in a still small
voice, “Look here, old son, if a guest at my table put his
knife where you’ve just put yours, he would be hit with a
decanter at once.” Although the only response vouch-
safed was an arrogant stare, His Superlativeness lunched
in double-quick time, I noticed.
Have you ever—it does seem an odd question to pro-
pound—but have you ever noticed, in a ballroom, that the
gentlemen’s right coat-sleeves are generally—after one or
two dances—more or less marked with white dabs, re-
sembling flour or face-powder ?
At the Essie .Tenyns’ first night at the Criterion, the
dress-circle was decidedly “ swagger,” and the ladies vied
with one another as to which could wear their bodices cut
lowest on the shoulders, and yet look as innocent as a
baby all the time. It appears to me that the fewer
clothes you wear the loftier may be your station, and if
you feel inclined to sneer at my simple statement, I
proudly produce as my reference a person about whose
status there isn’t the faintest doubt at Potts Point—Vic-
toria, by the grace, &o. Of this exalted lady, the S. M.
Herald the other day said “ When her Majesty was
seen by the crowd (in Germany) walking from het son-in'}
law’s apartment to her own, in the palace grounds, only
wearing her widow’s cap and attended by one servant,
their enthusiasm broke out into great cheers.” I should
think so. What do you think ?
Speaking of abbreviated garments reminds me of the
Londoil Gaiety Company and a horrid statement a mali-
cious Englishman made to me the other day. I was
speaking of the beauty of one of the members of the com-
pany when this demon said disparagingly : “ Oh, yes 1
pretty enough ! She'll knock all the men out here,
despite her age, which she conceals very effectively.’
“And how old is she?” queried your own Sappho.
“ About sixty,” was the cruel response, “ and she looks—
well, seventeen ! ”
Hurstville is to have a Leap Year dance on the 22nd.
In the passenger-list of a certain mail-steamer recently
appeared the name of " Miss Blank and child.” How
terrible a penalty for chaperoning one’s little niece 1
Handsome George Hignold, than whom no better lover
ever postured behind the floats, is on the verge of inherit-
ing, with his brother William, a fine English property,
the Rignall estate, Eignall being George’s family name.
There has been tedious litigation for two generations, but
the only Henry Yee has nearly got his own again. If it
robs Sydney of one of her favourite Thespians, why I shall
be selfishly sorry that the litigation didn’t extend for six
Signor Simonetti has just completed a clay model of a
bust of Mr. G. W. Griffin, U.B. Consul at Sydney. A
number of ’Murkan citizens and friends have, it seems,
subscribed to have Mr. Griffin sculped in marble. 1
heard once of a popular public man who consented to
have his photo, taken in marble, and when the “ statoo
was finished he proudly placed it above his library door
Then he went in one night late and the bust took a header
and killed the popular public man as dead as Pompey.
A pleasant carpet-dance, to celebrate the wedding ’
anniversary of Mr. and Mrs. Jamieson, of “Warialda,
Victoria-street, eventuated on the 7th inst., and many
were called to pursue a wild career in three-quarter time
over the Brussels.
One of the English footballers on Saturday wore his
jersey outside instead of inside, and the effect—was
humorous. Yes, “humorous and lingering,” as the
Mikado would say.
The St. Lawrence Mission Schools afternoon tea-concert
at the Protestant Hall, was filled by the erhne de la creme
with a mixture of the “skim de la skim” of Sydney
society, on the Bth instant. The performance was super-
lative. We had Cellier opening the affair with a piano-
forte solo. Then the beauteous Essie Jenyns and Plain
Bill Holloway in the forest scene from “As You Like It,”
and we liked it very much. We had Kowalski, who, in
complimentary mood inclined, played selections from
“Dorothy.” (Cellier, by the way, worked like a helot to
make the affair gee). We had Fanny Liddiard and Pitti
Sing Osborne, and if we had had Nellie Stewart we should
ha' r e—like Fritellini—“ positively expiahed ” with delight.
Add to this Lady Oarington’s smile—Lord “Bartie’s” sad
and interesting gaze, and the best-made cup of tea in the
world to assuage your usual afternoon parch, and you can
understand that the charitable novelty was a complete
success.
The talented Madame Charbonnet-Kellerman will give,
on the 20th and 25th insts., a pianoforte recital on the
somewhat involved masterpieces of Frederic Chopin.
Lady Carington is patroness, and several vocalists have
given their services, whilst nobody more sincerely wishes
the clever artiste every success or more resolutely intends
to be present than does—Yours affectionately, Sai-pho
Smith.
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
lor this column, will at all times be thankfully received
and acknowledged by Misa Sappho Smith, Bullbtin Office


Business Announcements
A RADICAL REFORM.
! I feel so Mondayish!” exclaims the
housemother at her breakfast-table on the
Monday morning. Although the above absurd
adjective is not to be found in the dictionary, yet
every woman well knows its meaning when she
looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling,
toiling, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The
house is thrown out of joint, other weekly duties
are as far as possible set aside, the children kept
out of the way, a cold dinner for the family, and a
warm reception for anyone who intrudes to waste
time and to prolong tne agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing
day” is a thing of the past. Every busy, hard-
pressed mother knows the wretchedness and
gloom which the present washing-day brings down
upon the household. In the early morning all is
prepared for this all-important washerwoman,
timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then to
attack the week’s or fortnight’s batch of soiled
linen. The good-natured husband readily excuses
a hastily-prepared breakfast, for he hopes it may
betoken the speedy ending of the dreadful day.
The children are packed off to school, and then
begins in earnest the strife between the housewife,
anxious to get everything finished in good time,
and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the
greatest impartiality the laundress divides her
attention between the discussion of light refresh-
ments and the very latest gossip, the intervals of
time being filled up with a gentle application
to her special functions.
You will see advertised “Steam Washers,’
whereby the linen is washed in boiling water.
This is altogether unscientific, as any sensible
woman knows, for water which is at or nearly at
boiling point will fix a portion of the dirt in the
clothes, imparting to them a villainous yellow
tinge. This is the experience of all who have used
such machines, and the reason is easily explained.
All body linen contains a certain proportion of
albuminous substances, which, although readily
dissolved in cold water, have the property of being
rendered absolutely insoluble by the application
of hot water, thus forming what dyers term a
mordant. This catches and fixes any dirt or
colouring matter present in this “steaming” or
“ boiling ” washer, and the clothes are literally
dyed a bad colour instead of being cleansed.
Then there are the old-fashioned “ Rocking
Washers,” which are made of wood or of iron, and
supported upon two standards. These revolving
or “rocking machines” are tedious to fill. The
clothes have first to be soaped and rubbed, then
taken singly and packed inside in a certain manner
under pain of failure. Then the heavy “machine”
has to be rocked or swung round by main force.
Only a man or woman with unusual muscular
development should attempt the task. The Beale
Patent Washer can be used by a girl or lad of 15
years.
The two above-described “Steaming” and
“ Rocking ” Washers are those mostly before the
public in this colony at the present time.
m
itrUiLirn
Eexle Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle,
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows ; and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary,
only the water and clothes being agitated by an
accurately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-
wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no ar-
rangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards
and forwards, and a very small expenditure of
strength suffices to lash the water into a mass of
foaming suds. In the process the clothes are
floated to and fro, up and down; currents and
cross-currents of water are formed which, meet and
are forced through and through the fabric, carry-
ing away every particle of dirt and stain. The
linen, being merely suspended in the water, is not
rubbed and scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither
has anything to submit to the hand-wringing pro-
cess which insensibly rips, tears, and wears the
clothes. Thus, the most delicate fabrics cannot
be torn by our system of washing. Every one
has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the
fierce rubbing they get upon washing boards, or
by the hands. With the Beale Patent Washing
Machines this friction is done away with. There-
fore, the clothes will last far longer than by hand--
washing, however careful. When the washing is
done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it may be
always sweet and clean. There,is no false bottom,
and nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Finally, remember that no hand-rubbing and no
boiling are required with the Beale Patent
Washer, however much they may be; qecessary
with other machines.
Instead of the disturbance of the weekly wash-
ing-day, two or three hours will suffice' to do the
double work, and to do it every way better. A
weary labour will be taken off the house-wife, and
a happier home will result. Is not the introduc-
tion of the Beale Patent Washer fairly to be called
a Radical Reform ?
A customer of ours calls the change, “ Washing
miHo Fun.”
May be had upon Easy Terms of Payment, no
matter where you live. Full instructions accom-
pany each Machine. We will replace, without
charge, any part broken in transit.
Beale & Company,
482, 484, and 486 George (Street,
SYDNEY,
J 65 REWARD.
STOLEN from Gundagai during month of May,
Light-gray HORSE, about 14 hands,
branded JW over 9 off shoulder, remains sore on
back ; slight strap collar and trace marks. Above
Reward will be given for information which will
lead to his recovery, or convibtion of the person
who stole him.
Dr. J. J. O’DWYER, Gundagai.
WANTED, MILLIONS ON MILLIONS
Second-hand Chaff, Corn, Flour, Potato,
Coke, Bark, and Copra Bags.—P. B. IVEY &
Co., 141 Sussex-street.
Government Notices.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, sth June, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF
FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until
11 o’clock, on TUESDAY, the 17th day of
July, 1888, from persons willing to contract for
the erection of two gates ; 11 chains post and rail
fencing ; 19 miles 70 chains fencing of posts and 3
wires; 7 miles 70 chains fencing of posts and 2
wires ; repairing, &c., 14 miles 10 chains of exist-
ing fences, and attaching wire netting to the
whole-say 41 miles 70 chains between the Murray
River and the 42nd-mile post on the South, Aus-
tralian boundary.
Specifications and forms of Tender may be ob-
tained at the Inquiry Branch of this Department,
and upon application to the Crown Lands Agent,
Wentworth, and Messrs. George Ferguson and
Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street, Adelaide.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be ac-
cepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary
for Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit-proof
Fencing, Section 1.”
THOS. GARRETT.
Department of Lands,
' Sydney, sth June, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until
11 o’clock on Tuesday, the 17th day of July,
1888, from persons willing to contract for the
erection of one gate, and about 24 miles of rabbit-
proof fencing, from a point about 10 chains south
of the 42nd-mile post on the South Australian
boundary to a point near the 66th-mile post on
the said boundary, joining Dakvale (S.A.) boun-
dary fence.
Specifications and forms of tender may be
obtained at the Inquiry Branch of this Depart-
ment, and on application to the Crown Lands
Agent, Wentworth, and Messrs. George Fergu-
son and Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street,
Adelaide.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be ac-
to be addressed to the Under Secretary
for Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit-
proof Fencing. Section 2.”
THOS. GARRETT.
Business Announcement
N
EWT O N
AND
LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
m
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
ARGE STOCK of PIANOFORTES by the
i most Celebrated Makers.
NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets. _
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets. __
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wardrobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door; Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass'attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
fg
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Vert Complete
Assortment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb,
asm
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
FrP 1
PATEN
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
df
OANYAS0 ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.,
Price Very Low,
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
.Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each, Newton
and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs.
Indian Long-Arm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices.
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Gonnell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, bes
© make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
S ' NEWTON and LAMB.
What He Wanted.
(BY THE LATE HAROLD GREY.)
It was a big Australian fire—wholesale grocer’s
bonded store and whatnot ; and it burned
bravely.
At 2 a.m. the giant form of the gallant Com-
mander of the Thespian Volunteer Fire Brigade
•stood (a good way back) gazing up at the burning
facade. He was a magnificent picture ! His
uniform was a combination of gold lace, brazen
scales, medals, trophies, weapons, and boots. His
brazen helmet was a foot-and-a-half high, and the
top of it was fitted with a four-inch spike.
But the spike was convertible. At special fires
he wore a plume !
Such was Captain Nozzler.
“ I say, Nozzler ! ” cried a half-choked voice.
Swinging himself round, haughtily, upon his
lacquered heel, the Great Commander faced to
where the “ strong body of police” were keeping
back the unpleasant populace.
Eheu ! The little broker, Poly carp, struggling
in the hands of three constables.'
The important captain had but to raise his
hand, and the man was free to come to him.
Such is the power of a volunteer fire-captain—
when he’s got them all on !
“ Thankee, thankee, Nozzler,” said Polycarp,
kneeling down to draw on a boot somebody had
thrown after him —“ I shan’t forget you for this !
I—ah ! on at last! ”
,He stood up beside the one in command, and
looked about him.
“ Hullo!” he said, suddenly, “look at those
fellows going down into the cellar—why they’ve
got a covered stretcher —and a big basket—and a
bag ”
“ They are some of my company,” remarked the
captain, calmly.
“ But there’s no fire in the cellar,” gasped Mr.
Polycarp.
“ No,” said the commander; “but,” he added,
quickly, “think of the caretaker’s wife .sleeping
on the premises with her babe at breast, the sweet
infant smiling in its sleep, and its little shell-like
hands curled in an ecstasy of innocence. She
wakes. She smells the smoke and sees the flames.
Horror ! She is lost! Denser becomes the smoke,
louder roars the fire. Ha ! the lift ! Seizing the
babe in one hand, and the rope in the other, the
agitated mother quickly lowered herself down.
Where would she fetch ? ” asked the captain.
“ The cellar, of course, but—— ”
“ Ah, you didn’t think of that, then ”
“ No, captain ; I certainly didn’t think of all
that. ”
“ Ha ! ” emphasised the great man.
“ T see,” remarked Polycarp, after a pause,
“ that your 'firemen are not provided with small
coils of rope with which to swing themselves from
smouldering rafter to smouldering rafter, until the
room is reached ”
“ ‘ Where huddled in a corner is the poor bab-
bling idiot.’ Ah!” said the captain, “you
needn’t go on. The fact is,” lowering his tone,
“ the lines with us didn’t answer. This, however,
is a subject in which strict confi ”
“Oh, captain, you need not fear any breach of
confidence from me,” broke in Polycarp, with
feeling; “we’ve served together on too many
coroner’s juries for that 7”
The commander grasped his hand. It was a
mere passing doubt, he said —a nothing. “You
must know,” continued Captain Nozzler, “that
commanding, as I do, from this the
actions of my men are left very much to their own
discretion.”
“ Certainly,” put in Polycarp, as the commander
coughed. .' _
“ I am not, therefore, to be held responsible for
all their proceedings. As a matter, of fact, 1
never sent one of my men into a house with his
coil of line to distinguish himself that he didn’t
leave the rope on the top flight and come scuttling
down stairs with either a clock or a music-stool,”
“ You don’t say so !”
“ Yes ; and one night a cry arose that there was
a nursery-governess asleep on the second floor.
One of my men instantly started up with axe and
line to save her. He was a very great while about
it; but after the lapse of about half-an-hour the
form of the governess was observed dangling all
right through the window. Down she came,
lower, lower, with great applause, until within
about 10ft. of the ground, when the clove-hitch
came undone, and bang, she came on the mat-
tresses ”
“ And was killed ”
“ No, indeed ; it might be a hap However,”
broke off the Commander, “ she wasn’t hurt at
all, but jumped on to her legs as lively as possible.
‘A cab awaits you, madam,’ said the courtly
Superintendent, with a London smile. ‘No,
thank vou,’ she replied; ‘lam going to stop until
the gallant fireman who saved me arrives, in order
that I may thank and bless him. ’ ”
“ The good, grateful girl!” cried Polycarp.
The Commander went on without remark.
“ Soon my fireman arrived on the scene. He
had come straight from the public-house. That
was made obvious by the peculiar strength of his
cough. She marched up to him, and, seizing him
by the collar, beat him unmercifully. Then she
told the eager spectators how, while she had been
lying in a burning house, he had, instead of en-
deavouring to save her life at once, been lowering
down articles of furniture, at £2 a lot to anyone
who would bid, in the lane at the back of the
building. . ‘ If, ’ cried the excited girl, ‘ some
scoundrel had bid ten shillings more for a chest of
drawers, I Should have been burnt to death !’”
“Dear me!” said Polycarp. “The man,” he
added, “ was discharged, no doubt.”
“Certainly,” replied the commander; “and,”
he continued, looking very hard at his companion,
“it took some strong —some remarkably strong
representations on the part of Clubber’s relations
before I would allow him to assume once more his
position as a volunteer fireman in my company.”
“ Why, surely ” began Polycarp.
“Well, the “fact is,” said the commander,
coming-down a peg or two, “ his sister used to
come and work for my wife at dressmaking—and
come cheap —and what with that and one thing
and another it so wore upon me that —and besides,
fancy this ! ” continued Captain Nozzler, _ ex-
citedly, “a deputation of 20 of his country relations
taking my private house by storm, a week after
the lad was discharged, and their spokesman cry-
ing : “ Hi! Cap’en ! now you’ve bin and sacked
Billy, where’s our sardines and jewellery cornin’
from ? ”
■ “That was very—er—straight, commander,”
said Polycarp, rapidly becoming demoralised.
“ Coarse too —and unnecessary.”
“ Quite,” said Polycarp. “ By-the-way, I did
not tell you that, Mrs. P ? ”
“ No. Well done !”
“ Yes, it’s a grat . But see; here are your
men emerging from the side entrance of the
cellar. See ’em in the lane. By Jove ! ” cried
Polycarp, “ the stretcher seems heavy enough this
time. A corpse, no doubt. The basket and bag
are, no doubt, filled with mutilated and charred
remains. It really— ’’
The commander had remained silent during the
movement executed by his men, and had hitherto
listened to Mr. Polycarp with an unmoved coun-
tenance, but now, spreading a gorgeous silk hand-
kerchief, he rocked with laughter.
“ Why, what was in the covered stretcher ?’ en-
quired Mr. P., almost fiercely.
“Bend down,” murmured the exploding Noz-
zler.
“ You don’t say so!” cried Polycarp, with
sparkling eyes.
“ The basket, of course—but the bag ?” enquired
the little broker, in a hoarse whisper.
“Ch s!”
“ Ndizzier,” said Mr. Polycarp, “ I will be frank
with you.” (Here the great commander rose.)
“ I have long had a volunteer fireman’s heart, but
1 have never been able to compass (though I have
often desired to) his mysterious plethora of sheep’s-
tongues and sardines. My dream, now, is to join
this company. How much ” (trembling with ex-
citement) “how much will pull me through?”
‘ ‘ Oh, I think we can fit you for a fall from a
ladder for a fiver,” was the captain’s reply.
The little man paid the money in a great hurry ;
then drawing the commander aside, said : “ This
is just' what I wanted. Let’s see, 1 told you about
the missis, didn’t I well, Nozzler, old man, I
shall be pretty regular in my attendance ; but
should you miss me at a fire at or near a bassinette
shop, send a cab for me instanter, and I’ll give
the driver five shillings. And now good-bye.”
A few days later, Mr. P. ’s cards read as follows :
SIGISMUND POLYCAKP,
Volunteer Fireman (Thespians).
N.B.— Fires attended with his own vehicle.
And even’t that didn’t “ give the thing away.
America can not only boast of the cham-
pion pugilist but of the champion bigamist, or
rather, polygamist. He calls him<elf Dr. Chap-
lin, and he has succeeded in marrying ten women
in sixteen years.
A protest by the London Anti-Yivisectionists
against any Pasteuring of our rabbits indicates
the tendency of average Britons to regard Aus-
tralian animals as “ Crown ” property. Were
Russia to introduce cholera-microbes among the
wolves it is hardly likely that the London A. V.
Society would put in its wretched little spoke.
And if China introduced leprosy-germs among
the vermin of Pekin the Society wouldn’t so much
as mention the matter in its annual report. But
the destruction of Australian rabbits is evidently
regarded as something that ought to be promptly
prohibited by Her Majesty’s advisers at the Court
of St. James’. In a word, this handful of cranks
are persuaded that Australia wants closer super-
vision, and we shouldn’t be surprised to find that
missionaries are coming out to check the indis*
criminate slaughter of rabbits by us poor heathens
“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. The
Coronation Handicap, run at Canterbury Park,
June 28, 1888. 4000 Subscribers at 10s. each. First
Horse, £BOO ; Second, £250 ; Third, £150; Starters,
£250; Non-starters, £250 (divided amongst them),
and 100 Cash Awards at £3 each. For further
particulars write for one of our Yearly Cards,
which are well worth keeping for the information
they contain. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please register all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result.
Address “Australia,’ care of Mr. Hugh Dal veen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office,
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Amusements,
/N AIETY THEATRE.
VJT Lessee Mr. L. FOLEY.
Sub-lessees and Under the Management of
Messrs. HUGHES and JINKINS.
CARRIAGES ORDERED AT 10.
EVERY EVENING at 8
THE JUNGFRAU KAPELLE.
Swiss Band, Mountain Singers, and Tyrolese
Jodelists. '
Prices, 55., 35., and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
R
OYAL STANDARD THEATRE
FRANK SMITH S
DRAMATIC COMPANY,
the world-renownt d powerful Drama,
LOST \ ( LONDON
LOST ) I LONDON
Popular Prices, 35., 25., and Is.
Business Manager, B. J. MULLIN,
RITERION THEATRE.
c
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
SHAKESPEARE TRIUMPHANT.
FOURTEEN FAREWELL Performances
of
w. j. holloway’s Shakespearian company
and last appearance (prior to her departure for
London) of Miss Essie Jenyns.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY,
Shakespeare’s Glorious Comedy,
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING.
Produced under the sole direction of W. J. HOLLOWAY.
Manager for w. J. holloway ... w. H. manning.
General Business Manager —Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COMB AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
4th YEAR.
The Musical Kings
The Musical Kings
The Innovator ...
The Innovator ...
FIELDS and HANSON
FIELDS and HANSON
SYLVO
SYLVO.
COME EARLY.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d.
SY D N E
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the Worlds
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. _ The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
Mr. R. G. AGINTON, the acknowledged
Champion Fancy and Artistic Roller Skater of the
World, who has just returned from a trip round
the world, has been engaged at an enormous ex-
pense, and will give exhibitions of, his wonderful
skill on the rollers every evening for a few weeks
at 9p. m. The Splendid BRASS BAND of the
Naval Artillery will render Choice Scleetions ev“ 1 ’"
afternoon and evening.
’Buses will leave Wynyward-square every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bedford-street, Exhibi
tion gates.
ADMISSION. Is.
M
ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL BALL.
TOWN HALL, WEDNESDAY, JULY 11.
Tickets obtainable from Members of the Com
mittee only.
Double, 30s. ; Gentlemen, 215.; Ladies, 12s. 6d.
W. J. MERRIMAN, Hon. Tres.
W. A. BLACKSTONE, Hon. Sec.
Box 1023, G.P.O.
B
OTANY! BOTANY! BOTANY
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Sacked and Classical Conceet oi
Well-known Artists,
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin,
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH
... Director.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
COMPANY.
Managing Director—Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Skating ! Skating ! Skating !
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Concerts by the best available Artistes
Every Sunday.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is.;
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stopfokd, Sub Manager,
HARRY STEGGA,
PITT-STREET, OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE,
FOR
Gentlemen’s Outfitting in Every Branch,
viz.
Shirts, Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
clothing in the following makes Cashmere,
Lamb’s-wool, Indian Gauze, Merino, Natural
Wool, and Professor Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary and
Hygienic Normal Wools (registered make).
Overcoats, Macintoshes, Dressing Gowns, Patrol
Coats, &c. Umbrellas, Portmanteaus and Travel-
ing Bags, plain and fitted. Travelling Rugs in
Alpine, Mohair, Kaiapoi and Sealskin.
Moderate Prices, with Civility and Attention.
Lavatory and Dressing-Room Provided.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7; Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING AT A QUARTER TO 8,
the
TWO ORPHANS
TWO ORPHANS.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrovo.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
TREMENDOUS RECEPTION OE
Mr. Bland Holt and his Dramatic Company,
in the most successful of all Sensation Dramas,
THE WORLD.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Bastway’s.
IKT EW OPERA HOUSE.
J3I Lessee and Manager, F. E. Hiscocks.
Acting Manager, Mr. R. B. Wiseman.
Last Week but Two of
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS
NEW COMEDY and SPECIALTY COMPANY
Every Evening at 8 o’clock,
SPOONS. SAPPHO. SPOONS.
Saturday,! Matinee for Schools and Families.
June 1(5. / Children, Gd.; Adults, 2s. and Is.
w
GRAND
AND
CIRCUS
I R T H’S
NEW YORK EQUESCURRICULUM.
Location :
HAYMARKET SQUARE.
Every Evening at 8.
Gigantic Success !
Houses Crowded to Overflowing !
Hundreds Turned Away !
BEST CIRCUS EVER SEEN IN SYDNEY !
4 Beautiful i
LADY EQUESTRIENNES! <±
Come and see the the Great Bounding Jockey
Contest between the Two Australian Natives,
GEORGE WIRTH and MONTGOMERY KING.
Prices —35., 2s. and Is.
Afternoon Performances WEDNESDAYS
and SATURDAYS at 3 o’clock. All Children
admitted for 6d. Entrance to Chairs and Stalls
in Hay-street, and to Pit in Pitt-street.
ALEXANDER, Business Manager.
A 1
SHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND
GARDEN PALACE.
Skating Every Afternoon and Evening.
The splendid Recreation Ground Band
will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings..
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
Coming Events ;
July 7. —Grand Bicycle Match, Clarke v. Lebeau
for £5O a tide.
August 4.—The Ashfield Athletic Club Sports.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
G
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
GRAND OPENING for the SEASON,
THURSDAY, JUNE 21.
THIS IMMENSE SKATING RINK
will POSITIVELY OPEN for the SEASON on
THURSDAY, JUNE 21.
GRAND SKATING PROGRAMME.
GRAND BICYCLE and PROMENADE and
DRILL, conducted and performed by all the
principal Cycling Clubs of Sydney, who have
kindlv consented to appear for the INAUGURAL
OPENING of the CRYSTAL PALACE SKAT-
ING RINK. , '
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band. Sixteen
Performers specially selected.
The whole Building brilliantly illuminated by
ELECTRIC LIGHT, Incandescent and Arc
Lamps, specially imported for this Rink,
The Illuminating and Decorations on the
grandest scale ever attempted in Sydney.
SKATES FOR SALE OR HIRE.
May be inspected on application to the Manager.
SKATING SURFACE :
The LARGEST and BEST FLOOR ever laid
in the colonies. ' , ,
EXPERTS having examined the 1 loor declare
it to EQUAL the largest ever constructed in
America or England.
Skaters only allowed on the skating surface.
Special Accommodation for 3000 Spectators.
SEASON TICKETS
can be obtained on application to the Manager.
SPECIAL RATES for Ladies and Families.
~ Ladies and Gentlemen
P °A LARG S E a and EXPERIENCED STAFF of
INSTRUCTORS specially engaged.
The Rules and Regulations of the Rmk will be
strictly enforced.
NOTICE —The Management reserve the right
to REFUSE ADMISSION, to ANY OBJEC-
TIONABLE PERSON.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
TATTERSALL’S
mmms [OHmuinms
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
• Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
«• Evening News.” Address, ‘‘ Tattersall’s," care
of George Adams, Tattersall s Hotel, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
the BRIGHTON OB’ IST.S.W.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a naost rechercM
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country j
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de H6te at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstbb to make her
visitors comfortable, and her. Hotel the best in the colony.
Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
Mrs. KILWNSTER,
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
T7"ictorlsu
Thk CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, Is
the most fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort In the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
iTn.il, Ladies’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
Baths. Beverages Iced.
Eta. B. S;urii; & Co.,
PROPRIETORS,
Late of
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
The PALACE HOTEL, BCHUCA, 1b the
leading Family anil Commercial Hotel In the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEAKING’S
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer la
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con*
sideratlon all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public Baths,
Alcock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out of
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort lor
Invalids.
]. I S. Sjmiij,
proprietor.
Business Announcements,
NER V O
US D E
A FREE MEDICAL BOOK.
B I L I T Y.
TTE''RR T? A SMTTSSEN The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Diseases,
WillSn^po^eTto^ Medical Book on Nervous Debility and
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. ‘
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET. HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW SOIJTII WALES.
4?
V: ' i/flC| £ ■■;. v* 'v v
Is £>
« ■ WMt.UC
t-2 - T V
1 r~- : \>* ■ *i*£fc
i
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Trade Mark —“ The Greenwich Observatory.”
Specially prepared from Ripe Fruit, and is the best of
all Fruit Salines.
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING,
A Preventive of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion and Sea Sickness.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Get it only at Grocers, Chemists and Storekeepers.
Proprietor:
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S.; Greenwich, England.
Agents:
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
white end Bound teeth, perfect freedom from decay,a healthy action of^?
Mir Warrant breath can beet ba obtained by discarding gntty tooth powder* and wM w#*a*e
gad using daily
3® Fearl Dentifrice, a white powder composed of the moat
iiierbal, and warranted free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients; it whitens and preserve*
ißie teeth, prevents and arrests decs;
exercise a
iilghlyheneficial influence on the teeth and gums. All pentisrs auowmai uenuer washes c|
4t 'j No other"Odonto is gemulm
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL S* im K>M Jm * f olden ®olohs fee
Salr and golden-haired people and children.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR beautifiestke complexion,eradicate!laUtmtaiMoaCj
irfecta U renders the skin soft, smooth Md deM«te.
-it x), n»tton Garden, Eaondom,andsb®e4®®s sms itaintassoMsaisßwaffifc
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bros., and E. Bkosskk & Co., Sydney,
LEA & PERRINS’SAUCE
I)
In consequence of Imitations/of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public . Ua and Pemni
have la request thal Purchasers see that J he Label faitm
hears their Signature thus
without which hO bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS? Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle a*S
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester;
Blackwell, London, &e.,&e.i and by Grocersand Oilmen throughout the lycrrld^ m
"Titilnitite ftiprlr -i#»b»p»« xr cn. i PAvm Cqhkw Sc CcC. Qjfotm-
Q
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY,
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &p., MADE ON THE PREMISES,
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
SLOTHS, CUES,BALLS in stock,also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
1, tittle George Street, SYDNEY, H.8.W., and Soto Square. WOOS


Business Announcements.
ear thl/ej oisrr/ir -m
'UCUIISTEIHES
Direct Supply Association!
r —~
I 658 George Street, 658
| 658 Colonnade, 658
5 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
, t
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buyir
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and evei
description of fittings, and purchasers wid c
wisely before buying to compare our prices wii
others.
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINA
from 4s. fid. up to £l5.
Specia( Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 35*.
» » » steel notes ... 50s.
Organ Concertina,, t injwood box ... \ j... 21s.
'*■ Q'm '!> ® Q Q © Q' t
o
The finest show of ACCORDEONS to be seen
m the colonies from 10s. fid. up to £5 at any
prices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 30s. Od.
Patent Silver ~ ~ ... 325. fid.
Patent Steel „ „ ... 355. Od.
. 7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality; Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Eittings, and extra set of Roman
' strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents iu Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
MU Mil STUBS.
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4 /-. 4/6
5/- and 5/6 a set. ' ’
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, fid., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d,, Is., and Is. 3d. each
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola Doable Sass, Haro,
Sithar. &c„ 80,
In Banjoes w r e have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5, 6 or 7 „ „ „ £4 10/-.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
pon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
ecial lines, we at once despatch Instrument. Li-
niments packed carefully and sent to any part of
e colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to.
P.U. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEif, Manager
658 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A CROSS BABY.
Nothin? is so conducive to a man's remaining a bachelor
as stopping for one night at the house of a married friend,
and being kept awake for five or six hours by the crying
of a cross baby. All cross and crying babies need onb
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters to make them well anc
smiling. Young man, remember this.—“ Traveller.”
Diarrhea, Dysentery and Colic.— lt ought to be more
generally known throughout New South Wales that Free-
man’s Original and Genuine Chlorodyne is a specific for
these prevalent Colonial Maladies. In Melbourne, years
ago, Freeman’s Chlorodyne acquired a very high reputa-
tion for arresting and curing these diseases. It is easy to
understand, therefore, that Freeman’s Chlorodyne is now
regarded by the Colonists as a household remedy. The
directions on each bottle are so clear that the most inex-
perienced can administer it with perfect confidence. Free-
man’s Chlorodyne', if given when the earliest symptoms of
these maladies manifest themselves, at once arrests their
further progress. In Colic, Inflammation of the Bowels,
and Pain of all kinds, Freeman’s Chlorodyne acts like a
charm. —Sold everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist
upon having “ Freeman’s ” only. Reject substitutes as
they are worthless. Trade mark, an Elephant.*
Pearls in the Mouth.—- White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel,
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists *
A F cmely Girl
Was met by u,s a few weeks ago. Her complexion
was as rough as the skin of a rhinoceros, and as
mottled as sausage meat, her eyes dull and heavy,
and her lips every color but red. Recently we
saw the same young lady, but how different! Her
complexion is as clear and as delicate as porcelain,
her lips twin cherries, her eyes bright as dew
drops. Yet all the difference lies in a rectified
condition of the blood, to accomplish which she
used dr. bell’s bitters.
is Vory seldoT)
That practising physicians of ail schools, not only
endorse a proprietary medicine, but prescribe it ii
their practice, yet this is done every day in the
case of du. bell's (Kidney and Liver) bitters—
and why?—because it always gives immediate
relief in all cases of diseases of kidneys, liver oi
urinary organs, and has permanently cured som<
of the worst cases.
How to Gain Flesh and Strength.— Take after each
meal about a tablespoonful of Scott’s Emulsion oe Pure
Cod Liver Oil with Hypophospiiites. It is almost as
palatable as milk, and easily digested. The rapidity with
whiSh delicate children and sickly people suffering from
weakness and wasting disease improve and thrive upon
this diet, is truly marvellous. As a remedy for Con-
sumption and Throat Affections and Bronchitis, is un-
equalled by any other preparation in the world. Any
Chemist can supply it at 4s. 6d.*
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 267 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
FEES OF DOCTORS.
The fee of doctors is an item that very many persons
are interested in just at present. We believe the schedule
for visits is *3.00, which would tax a man confined to his
bed for a year, and in need of a daily visit, over *l,OOO a
year for medical attendance alone ! And one single bottle
of Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters taken in time would
save the *l,OOO and all the year’s sickness.— ‘Post.”
rEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
II
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY 9
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
sewing MAcmfM
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importer# of Requisite# for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all details, Inc lading Machine™
Leathers, &o; and of the following Special Line# :-PEEKEESB OIOSS. SATIN POLISH.
IKO j Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indent# executed on Fa vourable Term#.
Business Announcements.
HOW'S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken tw«
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for chlldi en,
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism
and Cutaneous Affections,
~ ac tion of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
y^ 1 ™^ e ??T 1 r e^ out half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER/
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
tj/,,* .. ~, „ , M.R.C.S., England,
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,- I have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.-
Yours,
.. . o. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received b
the undersigned
‘‘l have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
hornWy depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ ! am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
„,, “ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
DOWS
n-EMBRO CATION.
IIHH ff
'Si
\ x SOLD
|every n where4
J V
am
m
Bow a Stee ns’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed bp greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Row’s Steano’s Win©.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of Row s
‘Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I consider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly free from any injurious
chemicals, too often used in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates.
, (Signed) JOHN M’KILLOP, Analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1881.”
Row’s Steane’s wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits. ~
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur
passed.
TRY THEM.
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROWS YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS
ROWS ASSORTED WINES
Sole Proprietors,
Edward Row & Company,
13, 15, 17 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
At Sydney Quarter Sessions a prisoner
got 10 years penal servitude for the forgery and
uttering of three cheques—£2s in all. Had he
evaded the Stamp Act in addition, he would prob-
ably have been hanged.
Georgia negroes are flocking to the Ocala
swamp and daubing themselves with its mud, in
the hope that it will turn them white. This
movement had its origin in the fact that a negro
who had wounded his leg and bandaged it with
the mud of the swamp found, when his leg healed,
that it had turned almost white.
Mr. T. A. Strickland, merchant, was
drowned last Sunday week through the up-
setting of a boat, from which he and a companion
were fishing, off Manly. The resolution and
kindliness which marked the character of “ Tom ”
Strickland, as he was familiarly known to hun-
dreds of those whose friendship was best worth
having in the city in which he lived, were never
better displayed than in the account given by his
rescued comrade of the closing moments of his life.
Our dear old friend, Pastor John Alexander
Howie, faith-healer, was recently holding forth at
Milton (N.Z.), and this was how he staggered the
local brain :
“ Whenever he wanted anything he just asked the Lord
for it, and He gave it to him. And yet he had never asked ■
for a penny in his life. ‘ Now, for instance, I want a lot
of money. You reckon I won’t get it ? I reckon you’re
wrong. I will get it; the Lord will give it to me. Now,
if the Lord tells any of you to give me some of that
money, see—(this in a stentorian voice)—see that you
listen to the call of the Lord.’ ”
They listened, but didn’t hear the call.
Dear Bulletin, —Here is an advertisement
from the S.M. Herald of Ist June, which I hope
will be quoted, widely circulated, and well chewed
over in the “dear old mother country ” :
T\T ANTED respectable, steady man, aged about 30,
" to take charge of horses, cows, and work in
garden, must be good groom, clean milker, and
obliging, Ifis., all found. Apply, stating name and
address of last employer., to , , near
Bathurst; suitable applicant will be engaged imme-
diately, and railway fare paid if willing to come month
on trial.
What can N.S.W. be coming to when a man in
his physical prime with so many good qualifica-
tions gets the above tempting offer—the accept-
ance whereof involves his having to travel 133
miles, work one month “on trial ” at the mercy of
his master, and take his chance of not being liked,
and of having to make the best of his way back to
the place from whence he came ? It would seem
that white men are at a heavy discount in this
country. It is just about time to kick out the
Chinamen, who, as a rule, “ can work in garden,”
and are “obliging,” but yet are, as a rule, not
willing to work a month on spec, on the chance of
getting “15 bob a week and tucker.”—Yours,
Joseph Andrews.
Mr. Augustine Birrell, author of “ Obiter
Dicta, ”is about to marry the Hon. Mrs. Lionel
lennyson, widow of the second son of Lord
lennyson.
A consistent republican in South Mel-
bourne would not allow his little son to rejoice
oyer his holiday on Queen’s Birthday; he kept
him inside, and made him read tracts all day.
A client rushed into a Sydney office at
lunch-time and asked in a hurried manner if Mr.
Jones, of Jones and Jones, was in. The office-boy
was just then in sole possession of the premises,
and quietly enquired which Mr. Jones he wished
“. Eit her will do,” cried the client.”.
Well,’ said the boy, with a yawn, “they are
both out.”
“ While an aboriginal was driving a horse
in a state of intoxication,” says a Melbourne
dady, “he fell off the vehicle, and was killed.”
-The Temperance movement should be extended to
horses. Also to reporters.
AN EPITAPH.
Is there no hope for one who never fought;
1 or one who little found, who little sought ?
Is there no goal to end his anxious life ?
Are there no means for men save hope and strife ?
On one who fights not men cast looks of scorn,
Contemn his heart by grief and hardship worn ;
They think him senseless, but they little know
His depth of passion and his depth of woe.
Loyalty in Queensland was always a frost,
but just now it is a blizzard, hirst, there is
papa’s own Sammy saying starchy things to
colonial Knutsford about the Chinese kick-up ;
then there is MTlwraith in power with a thump-
ing majority because he ran up the “National”
flag and nailed it to the mast ; but, worst of all,
there are the toney people of Brisbane, and Toney
himself as large as life—and no Birthday ball at
(Government House this year. 800-hoo !
A red-bearded Melbourne man found he
was getting grey, and went to Monsieur Eugene,
the Elizabeth-street coiffeur, for advice. “ Have
your beard dyed red,” said the artful Eugene,
who was allowed to do the deed—with the result
that everyone says : “What a marvellously well-
preserved man Mr. Blank is !” You see no one
would ever suspect a man of dyeing his beard
red. M. Eugene h»s plumbed the depths of the
human heart. He understands the bald-headed
man as well as did his great countryman Balzac.'
But Eugene, though unrivalled as a ladies’ hair-
dresser, is an enemy of woman. In this way. It
transpired in the divorce-case of Broughton r.
Broughton and Oscott, tried at Melbourne some
years ago, that Mrs. de Broughton, the respondent,
married the petitioner, her husband, under the
impression that he had a splendid head of hair,
while all the time the miserable wreck was wear-
ing one of Eugene’s wigs, a fact which she never
once suspected during the whole course of a six
months’ devoted courtship. Eugene is emphati-
cally the friend par excellence of the bald-headed
man.


Business Announcements.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vlo.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES OF INTEREST for long term
deposits.
BANK DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under three years.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
NOTWITHSTANDING fall in Bank Rates, this
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing
g
Renewable or withdraw-
able on notice in
terms of Prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “ TEN MINUTES’ ADYICK
TO INVESTORS,” Post Free.
The Company solicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments over terms of years.
Chief Offices; Australasian Chambers, 8, 10 and
12 Hunter-street, George-street, Sydney.
BRTJITO N’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY 34 Pitt Stbkbt.
BRISBANE Edwabd Stbkbt.
MELBOURNE Spknoeb Stbbbt.
Hotels.
PALACE FAMILY HOTEL,
Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
1 Irst-olass Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID LYONS Proprietor,
tIRITBRION HOTEL, NARRANDERA,
) N.S.W. First-class Family and Commercial
Hotel. Plunge and shower bath. 'Bus meets
ivery train. J. E. PATTERSON, Proprietor.
Stood Sample Rooms
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
h , CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockhampton)
(CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
J great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
Urge Billiard Room.
Prices as follows: —6s. per diem. All meals Is. 6d,
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
FIRST-CLASS TABLE,
Terms Moderate.
MUSGRAVE HOUSE,
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON. Proprietor.
PIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS,
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor,
MOUNT MORGAN.
Queensland National Hotel,
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitors.
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
•rniy. Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiser, Proprietress,
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
Alfred Lister, Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies,
Replete with every comfort and convenience
modern times for the travelling public.
YORK HOTEL,
BROKEN HILL.
A. OLIVER - ■ - Proprietress.
The York Hotel affords all the comfort of a
Home; civility and cleanliness, combined with
Moderate Charges, being a speciality.
The Hotel is centrally situated for Visitors to
the Mines or Township. All the rooms are lofty
and well ventilated, and luxuriantly furnished.
Large BILLIARD ROOMS, lu which are Two
Splendid Tables.
US' All Telegrams or Letters forwarded will
receive Mrs. Oliver’s immediate personal attention.
First-class Bath and Sample Rooms
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE!.
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spenobb-btbebt,
VISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
will find all modern improvements, such as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
room, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
and needle baths passenger elevator, electric
bells, telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not
to he surpassed' in Australia. Visitors can rely
upon being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietot
THE KIDNEYS.
SYMPTOMS.
Pain in Loins
High Colored or
Colorless Urine
Incontinence
Fever in the Parts.
Thousands of
people have taken
Dottle after bottle of
medicine, under the
impression that they
were suffering from
Bright’s Disease, or
some other Kidney
malady. A correct
diagnosis or examina-
tion, in nine cases out
of ten, would demon-
strate the fact that the trouble lay in the Liver, the
Stomach or the Blood. This delusion is conse-
quent upon the varied, startling, or alarming ad-
vertisements bearing upon Kidney Disease, which,
in embracing the symptoms of Dyspepsia and
Liver and Blood complaints proper, are regarded
by thousands as proof positive that they, too,
have fallen victims to Bright’s Disease, or some
other forms of Kidney affections. In ninety-nine
cases out of every hundred, when you experience
the symptoms found at the head of this article,
you will find that Impure Blood, Dyspepsia, and
Biliousness are the fathers of the symptoms ; and
any remedy that will give tone and healthful
action to those organs will remove the last vestige
of Kidney Disease. In a large majority of cases
the Kidneys suffer purely from sympathy, as do
other organs. Purify the Blood, rouse the torpid
Liver to action, strengthen the Stomach, and
it will invariably disperse all traces of Kidney
Disease. It is a proven and substantial fact that,
with a healthy Stomach and Liver, no such thing
as Kidney Complaint was ever known, bell’s
bittkes will relieve and cure you.
BUTCHER mon CO.,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES
AND QUEENSLAND.
Home Items and Topics.
—“ All your own fault.
If you remain sick when you can get Dr.
Soule’s American hop bitters that never—Fail.
—The weakest woman, smallest child, and
sickest invalid can use Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters with safety and great good.
—Old men tottering around from Rheumatism,
kidney trouble, or any weakness will he made
almost new by using Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters,
KW My wife and daughter were made healthy
by the use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
and I recommend them to my people. —Methodist
Clergyman.
Ask any good doctor if Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters are not the best family medicine on earth !
Malarial fever, Ague and Biliousness, will leave
every neighborhood as soon as Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters arrive.
“My mother drove the paralysis and neuralgia
all out of her system with Dr, Soule’s Hop
Bitters.’’ Ed. Oswego Sun.
t3T Keep the kidneys healthy with Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters and you need not fear
sickness,”
—Ice water is rendered harmless and more
refreshing and reviving with Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters in each draught.
—The vigor of youth for the aged and infirm is
Dr. Soule’s Hop Bitters ! !
f —“ At the change of life nothing equals Dr.'j
-{ Soule’s Hop Bitters to allay all troubles !■
p Incident thereto. J
“ The best periodical for ladies to take monthly,
and from which they will receive the greatest
benefit is Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
—Mothers with sickly, fretful, nursing children,
will cure the children and benefit themselves by
taking Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters daily.
—Thousands die annually from some form of
kidney disease that might have been prevented
by a timely use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.
—Indigestion, weak stomach, irregularities of the
bowels, cannot exist w'hen Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters are jised.
A timely ■ 1 • use of Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters will keep a whole family
In robust health a year at a little post.
—To produce real genuine sleep and child like repose
all night, take a little Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
on retiring.
None genuine without a bunch of green
hops on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown
in the bottle. Bkwake of all the vile poisonous
stuff made to imitate the above.
LIOHTNER & CO..
32 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
Fla.otogxapla.ic S3©<g.io.isites.
Instructions in Photography
FREE OF CHARGE
i To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit!
AT EITHER
38 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
08,
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES and PRICE LISTS FREE.
LfiCHTNER~ & CO.
Business Announcements.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables nim to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ; no Mercury used. He ill guarantee
a positive cure in every case he under t kes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—whe re there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorgaiic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality — CHßONlC AND
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Speer, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
White as the Driven Snow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Cleanser
GOLD-WATER SOAP.
Trade Mark—“ IMPERIAL."
All Grocers, City and Suburbs, Storekeepers,
The SYDNEY SOAP and CANDLE Co., Ltd..
SO Olarenoe-stkee*.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg to notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES I
M. MELAOHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. OADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIGARETTES, aIjoHHESI BEANES of CURES,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices I
UT Note this Price !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
“ SESOSTRIS ” Brand —in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHILLINGS EACH!
KW By buying from us you will save at least
26 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
14 BABBAGE SIBEET, SVDHE7
(opposite Savings Bank).
G8D.68D.68D.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintain! its Prestige and standi pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THB BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 OLARENOE-STRBEI,
GtBD. GS-BD.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
rjIHOMAS BUOKLAND.
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln.
„ i, Langland’s Foundry Go., Melbourne, Vlo.
Hotels.
GLOBE HOTEL, Albury.
THE Undersigned, having become Lessee of
the above well-known Hotel, begs to inti-
mate to the Travelling Public that every atten-
tion will be given to the management to ensure
comfort and the very Best Accommodation pro-
curable in the colonies.
Private Suites of Rooms for Families.
The Cuisine Department will be under the
superintendence of Mrs. Solomons.
Sample Rooms, Billiards, Hot and Cold Baths,
Reading and Smoking Rooms. Magnificent bal-
cony and every convenience.
All Liquors best brands. N.S.W. and Vic-
torian papers. Letters and telegrams promptly
attended to. Night porter.
L. SOLOMONS, Proprietor
Messrs. Charlemont and Co., of the
Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade, Sydney, have
just been appointed photographers to Governor
Carington.
Apropos of the marvellously successful
electric-tramcar trial in Sydney, a local paper
says There were 51 persons on the carriage,
and as a large number of them were members of
Parliament it will be understood that they were
of more than average size.” The fat pig is always
well greased.
An old pressman, who, for the greater
part of along lifetime, filled one of the highest
journalistic positions in Australasia, was heard to
remark that if he had his life to live again he
would not deal *with public questions in the
columns of the press in so absolutely judicial a
manner as he had done. The effect filters away
in transmission from the writer to his public, and
if the former does not say 50 per cent, more than
he means, the reader', who is always careful to de-
duct the 50 per cent, discount, does not believe he
means half as much.
A low-minded individual at Rochester
(Vic.), has amused himself for some years by put-
ting up boards in his garden on which he inquired
in large capitals if the drunken perjurer down the
road had been made a J.P. for attempting to
shoot his father, or if he owed his elevation to the
fact that he tried to choke the old man in a hotel.
He regarded this as a very large joke, and used to
sit and look at the sign until he was almost tickled
to death. One day, however, a bright idea struck
him, and he got another board constructed on
which he stated that Somebody's mother was worse
than she ought to be, and that another resident’s
wife had more clothes than morals, and that she
was short of clothes even at that, and then the
law aimed a boulder at him and brought him low.
The brilliant exertions of a local lawyer got him
off with a fine of only £lO.
The Cooktown (Q.) Independent sug-
gests that the local Mayor and aldermen should
celebrate the Centenary Year by visiting the
baths.
George Oakley, the Melbourne newspaper
correspondent, has obtained a patent for ‘‘ an
improved portable advertising vehicle.” Does this
mean an enlargement of the Ballarat Star ?
Nobody can understand the cold weather,
not even the astronomers. M. Flammarion, a
celebrated Breech savant, has been asked to ex-
plain, but he protests that the causes are not as-
tronomical. All the statements concerning a
change in th« earth’s axis, or the movement of a
Comet, are groundless. The only noticeable fact
is that the temperature has gradually diminished
during the last three years. Is it likely to go on
diminishing ? Is the central part of the earth
cooling down, or the ice from the North Pole
coming nearer ? No one can tell; at least, the
Fien'ch astronomer says so. What do the meteor
ologists say ?
John Grace was hanged at Armidale
(N.S.W.), the other day for the worst form of
murder—he had killed a poor miner for his money.
At least, so it appeared from the evidence, which
was purely circumstantial, and therefore—we say
it advise f ly—not fit to hang a dog upon. How-
ever, Grace seems to have been guilty, if one may
judge from the fact that he failed to loudly pro-
test his innocence, as innocent people ordinarily
do. He was a Roman Catholic, and was in his
last moments attended by Father Pttre, in whose
breast is locked away for ever the grim secret of
the dead convict. By the way, it must be_a fear-
ful thing to have your neck broken at Armidale at
this cold time of year. It is bad enough to knock
your fingers against a stone in Sydney after you
have drunk two cups of hot coffee at breakfast;
but to come out of a cold cell and haye your ver-
tebrae shattered before you have had any break-
fast at all ugh ! It is really not worth while
killing a man for his money on the verge of the
winter season.


CORRESPONDENCE
“ A.M.M.” : “ Will Honeycomb’s” “new story’
originally appeared in Tub Bulletin years ago. It was
first told, and, we are assured, truly told, of Mr. Oblonna-
Close and a certain N.S.W. judge “Thompson W.”:
Utterly and hopelessly unintelligible. Please write ex-
plaining “H. H. Clarke”: What address? Letter
still awaits you at this office “C.C.”: Your “poetry ”
recalls the following, which used to appear weekly in a
paper we once read, over some of the poorest doggerel
ever set in type
“ The merest boor that turns a clod
Can turn a verse, if duly taught—
But only he inspired by God
Can plant within that verse a thought.’,’
.... “ Watson F.” : You are thinking of the late Charles
St. Julian, Chief Justice of Fiji, who for 30 years was
engaged on the N.S.W. Press “ J. 8.” (Botany): Why
not ? The sins of a father arc not thus visited on his
children in a free country “ Stick-in-the-Mud ” : Yes,
Grace has played cricket in Australia “ with a cricketing
team.” “ Phil. Mowbray ” : Shall be glad to make such
an arrangement. Let us know fully what you pro-
pose “G. L. Lawrence” (Choh.): Thanks. Too
lively by a long way....“ Cockney ”: Very good;
next week..., “ Austral ” : Isn’t there a lot of false sen-
timent about this twin-brother business ? What have any
of us to be either proud or ashamed of ? We are the product
of antecedent causes and present conditions, and this
eternal crowing over Nature and Matter is hideously
absurd. We are only a bit of what we triumph over, and
we can’t break a single law of our material being without
paying the penalty. We have nothing to apologise for.
We have nothing to brag about. We are what we are —
nothing more. IE we could influence our own being there
isn’t one of us who wouldn't be a deal better and wiser
than he is. Man is a machine wound up to produce a
certain result. His forefathers supply the cog-wheels and
cranks, and his environment is the key that winds him up
~,. “ J.F.” (Lithgow), “ Hiram Abiff ” : Received....
“ Subscriber ” (Moruya): Now, do you want us to libel
“ the fellow creature ” referred to, and if so, what arc you
prepared to stand in exes ?....“ Starline ” : We pay for
copy, but the remuneration is not supposed to hold out
any adventitious bribes to the exercise of virtue. A paper
which paid only for the latter would be about the cheapest-
run of any on earth... “An Admirer” (Adelong) ; The
ways of the American bound-book agent are no secret. The
whole system is based on human vanity, and although you
seem to consider it very hard that a “ History of the
People ” should consist mainly of the vainglorious auto-
biographical brag of “those who have riz ” to occupy a
proud position amongst “ the gilded few',” you must re-
member they -pay for it through the nose. The “ jam ”
is Costly, and would be dear at a tenth of the figure. The
Yankee book-agent is a fox, perhaps, but the gilded
looney who pays the piper is the raven with a fancied
angel’s voice who drops the cheese because the agent
praises his high falsetto notes “ J.j.” : Thanks.
“Boundary Rider”: Vessels only very occa-
sionally leave Sydney for New Guinea. Your best
course would be to go to OooktowH first. There
is very little to be done in New Guinea as yet....
“ H. M’Harg” ; Yes, John Morley spelt God with a small
“ g” ; he also spells Morley with a big “M.” “ J.N.”
(Adelaide): Your letter is too long to reply to at one fel
swoop ; but it all turns on a misconception of terms and
a want of rigid definition. What you call Nature is the
state of things that ought to be according to the senti-
ment of intellectual human consciousness which has
grown up through centuries of idealising culture. When
you say Nature you mean something universally
benevolent. You state that on the dvy of the
millennium, man, in mercy to sheep, will leave off
eating mutton and eat vegetables. This is only a difference
in degree. The probability is that vegetables have con-
sciousness in proportion to their needs, just as sheep have
consciousness in proportion to their needs. You cannot
breathe without destroying millions of living organisms.
You must recollect that Man is not the totality of Crea-
tion. He is only one of many thousand units. He
doesn’t constitute the aggregate of the Universe. Will
lions and crocodiles and mosquitoes, snow-storms, ava-
lanches, volcanoes, and tidal-waves follow your merciful
example, think you ? Do not sleep in a draught or you
will find Nature is not very beneficent “ Selrahc
Drawde ”: He died (at Melbourne) because he had too
much brains) too much beer, and not enough money
“ Quien sabe ” (Mathoura): Have not yet come across the
verses you allude to ? “Maestro”: Firmly but gently
we solemnly declare that we don’t know “ W.8.C.” :
Received....“ W. H. Hawkes” (N. Melbourne): Many
thanks “Cockney” The man who argues about
suicide for this piper is away just now', but he shall look
into the matter when he gets over his present head.
~..“ E.J.T.” (Warrnambool, Victoria): Mere afraid
you’re not a poet ; but w'ait until the girl
rejects you. When a man can tinkle the
wail of remembrance over a mere saddle-horse, un-
fathomable possibilities are awaiting ignition in his
nature.... “E. N. Leigh” :No such letter as the one you
mention ever wandered hitherward.... “ Zeph,” “ Penny-
wit,” “ Alexander Stewart,” “F. C. Vesper,” “ Eidswold
Miner,” “William Taylor” (Byrock), “Subscriber”
(Numurkah, Vic.), “ Blawsted Colonial ” (Wyrallah, R.R.),
“ Frank Fasola ” (Wodonga), “ Moorabinda” : Received.
Rev. Mr. Turnbull's letter will appear in next issue.
[Main’ letters held over.]
■>Vhat would the Sydney evening press do
without the word “alleged ” ?
Mr. J. Sullivan, of 541 George-street, can be
highly recommended for umbrellas of every de-
scription, and he certainly has the best stock of
that useful article in the city. Sticks, etc , can
also be found here in great variety and at mode-
rate post.
The members of the Queensland Cabinet
met last Monday, when it was decided to tender
their resignation before the meeting of Parliament
on Tuesday. Owing to this determination, the
members, after assembling and hearing the pro-
clamation of the commissioners appointed to open
Parliament, will appoint a Speaker and adjourn,
probably for six weeks. Mr. Albert Norton, Sir
Thomas MTlwraith’s nominee, at latest advices,
is reported as the probable Speaker, the out-going
Government offering no opposition. The appoint-
ment will thus be unanimous.
The Referee
The Australian Eleven aio heavily handi-
capped by the illness of “ Sammy ” Jones. When
the cable announced the illness of Mr. Samuel
P. Jones, it was some time before the cricketing
public “ dropped “ tiuat Ifes reference was to their
genial “Sammy.”
* • *
Is the work telling on Turner and Ferris,
or have the Englishmen “collared” them? As
the season advances the wickets get harder and
the Britishers get into form, which must make it
tough work for the only two bowlers in the team.
* * *
Up to now Ferris has the better of Turner
in the bowling average to the extent of a little
over two runs a wicket. Ferris’ figures are 66
wickets for 880 runs, as against Turner’s 63 for
985 runs.
BEAM V. MOTE.
"BEEN FIGHTING, OLD MAN?”
“OH NO! I BELONG TO THE SOCIAL PURITY SOCIETY AND
I’VE CAUGHT COLD IN THE EYE I USE.”
Cyclist Lambton will not go out for an
“ airing ”or annex any pots for two years. The
Union has disqualified him for that period.
• * *
“Randwick” Tom Taylor and his shipment
of horses are a fortnight overdue.
• * •
Backers of Ravensworth, who started
favourite at 2 to 1 for the Grand National Hurdles
at Randwick on Saturday, were not kept long in
suspense. Ravensworth came down at the first
jump—Corrigan, who had the mount, getting off
scot-free as usual.
* * •
A commission was forwarded to Sydney to
back Trickett for the boat-race, the money
wanted being £2OOO to £4OOO, but no layers were
found.
*- • »
The M‘Elhone is still on the war-path
with regard to the Association Cricket Ground.
*‘ * #
According to the newspaper accounts of
the two matches in New Zealand, in which the
English footballers were defeated, the latter were
as gentle as sucking doves, whilst the Maori-
landers were fiends in human shape. However,
Braddon, who played back for Sydney in the first
match against the Englishmen, is likely to carry
the marks of the contest for some time to come.
* *
The popular Tattersall’s Grand National
Meeting at Randwick proved no exception to the
rule on Saturday, lovely weather tempting out a
big assemblage. Ravensworth started favourite
at 2 to 1, but he came down at the first obstacle,
and the winner turned up in the 10 to 1 chance
Cracksman. Lady Marion won the Flying
Handicap easily from Soldier’s Wind; another
favourite, Annandale, won the Selling Race; and
Voltaire, at 5 to 1, appropriated the Grand
National Steeplechase, the favourite, Glenduart,
failing to run into a place. For fully a quarter of
an hour were the horses kept at the post by Joe
Kean before he sent them away for the Winter
Stakes, which resulted in a win for Aristocrat,
who defeated Centaur by some three lengths.
* • *
Spofforth, in his valedictory oration, said
he hoped to reach England in time to be of ser-
vice to the Australian Eleven, and he a l so antici-
pated enjoying the “honour,” at some later
period, of playing for England against his old
pals. Now, in the first place, Spof. can’t be of
much service to the touring team, because they
want a man who can average 200 runs per innings
to fill their vacuum. And, in the. second place,
who the dickens thinks the Britishers would ask
Spof. to play in an All-England Eleven while
little Briggs (a batsman, too) can take five Aus-
tralian wickets for 15 runs ? The long ’un, in his
day, funked the Britishers, who (Grace always
excepted) had lapsed into a mechanical style of
batting unfitted to master a new method of attack.
But they have come to modify their former
opinion of Spof.’s powers very considerably.
Tooth’s Brewery, Sydney, has been formed
into a limited liability company, capital £900,000.
O, Stagger-juice, mightiest of potentates, we bow
down before thee in the gutter ! Great art thou,
O Tanglefoot!
The occasion of Mr. Phil. May’s visit to
Melbourne, where he will represent The Bulletin
at the International Exhibition, has been seized
upon by his various lay and professional friends
to entertain and banquet him in right enthusiastic
style. On Wednesday last the arcists of Sydney
gave him a dinner, at which Mr. J. R. Ashton
presided, and on the following Friday the Cent-
tury Club —of which Mr. Phil. May was one of
the earliest members—followed suit, with Mr. \V.
Macleod beaming on the single toast of the
evening.
Dear Bulletin, —I see it stated in a
Freetrade paper that the kerosene trade is falling
off, and that nobody knows the reason why ; and
I rise to state that this is sheer lunacy. I know
the reason, and so does everybody in the back-
blocks ; they don’t drink kerosene now as they
used to do. Ten years ago, whenever the rum and
colonial beer and other poisons ran out they fell
back on kerosene, which was ruinous to the health,
but now they swallow Marshall’s Tonic Nervine,
which braces up the nerves and allows you to
light a match on your teeth without, danger of an
explosion. Yours, Warrigal Joe.
A skating-rink is now being erected
in York-street, Sydney, near the New Opera
House, which will, when completed, be one of the
most perfect of its kind anywhere. Mr. Clarence
Backhouse is the architect, and Murray and Stuart
the contractors. This latest exercise ground for
the light fantastic toe will be known as the Grand
Crystal Palace Rink, and the pedal gyrations will
be personally inspected by Mr, Alfred Wyburd,
the company’s managing director. The building is
of brick and cement; the roof, which consists of one
tremendous span, is almost wholly of glass. The
building contains retiring-rooms for ladies,
lounge-saloons, smoking-rooms, lavatories, &c., &c.
It will accommodate 2000 skaters, and 5000 spec-
tators. The best skates in the world—the Henley
patent—will be provided. The interior will be
ornamented with mural decorations; the floor will
be of inlaid mosaic—a new patent affording
special skating facilities—and the entire edifice
will be irradiated by the powerful beams of the
electric-light. The opening hippodromio and
calisthenic ceremony is fixed for 21st inst.
Messrs. Nicholson and Co., of George and
King Streets, Sydney, and Collias-street, Mel-
bourne, have come to the front with a new cata-
logue of pianos and other musical instruments
which, for variety and dimensions, breaks all the
previous records of this enterprising firm. The
piano trade is one of the mysteries of Australian
life. Everybody owns one of these instruments—
old or new, wheezy, cracked, melodious, cheerful,
dismal, or variously dilapidated—and yet while
everybody possesses a piano the demand keeps up
unceasingly. Where the old piano goes to when
it has descended through all the different grades
of usefulness, and has finally ended its ill-used
existence by being pounded flat at the hands of the
girl in the hash-house, is a fathomless mystery.
No one ever saw the remnants of a broken-up
piano. The old weapon simply evaporates or dis-
appears, and a new one takes its place. Messrs.
Nicholson and Co. have probably the largest
share in the supply of this continual want, and
the Ronisch piano, for which they are the sole Aus-
tralian agents, has long ago proved its value. It is a
magnificent instrument of the finest tone, and it
bears up against reverses in the battle of life which
are more than sufficient to make many a pompous
double-grand, valued at twice the amount, give up
the struggle in despair.
' “If any of you ever take a glass of
whisky, before you put it to your lips think of
Macy Warner, and look into the bottom of your
glass, and see if you can’t see a rope there.” This
was Macy Warner’s speech just before he was
hanged at Jeffers m, Inch, for murder.
In Spain, according to the Paris Figaro,
the executioner is not allowed the opportunity of
mingling with the guests of public-houses just be-
fore a garrotting takes place, but for two whole
days previous has to pass all his time in a small
cell furnished only with a bed, table, chair, and a
box, inscribed with the words, “ Instruments of
Justice,” and containing the garotte inside. The
idea is that before put ting a human being to death,
he ought to have a little meditation on his own
misspent life. In Melbourne, likewise, they used
always to catch the hangman a couple of days
before they wanted him. But it was not to make
him meditate—it was only that he might sober-up,
A New Zealand paper publishes a bar-
barous wheeze about a preacher in these latitudes.
The reverend expounder’s language belongs to the
arid and depressed species, and you can’t throw a
brick anywhere in his sermons without hitting
some dry and pompous truth which hasn’t been
irrigated for 2000 years or more; but he states
that he was “ called by the Lord ” to the service
of the Church, and his flock think there must be
some mistake. The local editor kindly explains-,
however, that he was “ called ” right enough, but
that he shoved Providence into a corner, and
made it call him when it couldn’t well help itself.
He was at sea in a howling storm in his younger
and more sinful days, and when the cry went
round that the vessel was sinking he knelt down
in the lee scuppers and promised that if the ship
and the lives on board were spared he would de-
vote himself to the ministry. Consequently,
Providence had either to sink the whole crowd or
call him to preach for the rest of his natural life,
and, after thinking over it for some time, it re-
luctantly allowed him to go ahead rather than
take the awful responsibility. But it was a low,
mean thing for any man to do, and the general
impression is that if the event happened again
the preacher would be allowed to founder.
It Cost too Much.
In the early days of the direct tea-trade between
China and America, importers were anxious to
secure the earliest cargoes of a new crop. The
fastest clipper ships were engaged in the trade.
Great haste in loading them was followed by a hot
race <o reach New York. The first cargo brought
the best price and large profits; the successful
captain was always rewarded, so every known aid
to navigation was adapted. A young captain of
one of Mr Astor's clippers, bought on one of his
trips a new chronometer, and with its aid made a
quick passage and arrived first. He put the price
of it into the expense account of the trip, but Mr.
Astor threw it out, insisting that such an item of
expense for new fang led no'ions could not be
allowed. The captain thereupon resigned and
took sendee with a rival line. The next year he
reached port long in advance of any competitor,
to the great delight and profit of bis employers,
and the chagrin of Mr. Astor, Not long after
they chanced to meet, and Mr. Astor inquired,
“By the way, captain, how much did the chron-
ometer cost you?' “Six hundred dollars,” then
with a quizzical glance he asked, “And how much
did it cost you, Mr. Astor ?” ‘ ‘ Six thousand
dollars.” Men are often unfortunate in the rejec-
tion of what tlr-y cdl new faogled notions, but
Robert Cleave seed merchant of Invercargill,
N.Z., and a member of the Town Council, has dis-
covered a ‘new-fangled ” proprietary article that
has givem him entire satisfaction for Ins outlay.
He writes : “Two years ago I began to be sadly
troubled with a complication of bodily ailments.
All parts of my body were invaded by intense
pain, which in the chest, hips, loin, and bade,
were almost unbearable. My circulating and
digestive organs were all out of order, my urine
constantly loaded with sediments. Uric acid
doubtless existed to excess in my blood, which was
greatly deteriorated. During the night I would
be awakened by the most intense pains in the loins
and hips, which became of a violent and burning
nature. Acting on the advice of my doctor, I re-
paired to the hot springs in the North, wheie I
underwent hydropathic treatment. I did not
derive any perceptible benefit at that alleged
shrine of health, but on my return home I took a
treatment of Warner’s safe Cure and Warner’s
Safe Pills. When I had taken a few bottles of
the medicine, my pains were greatly modified, my
blood seemed stronger and purer, which I attribute
to the fact that your medicines dissolved the lactic
acid in the system. My improvement is decided
and permanent. Ido not suffer now from attacks
of pain as formerly, and my mental restlessness, a
pronounced system of my disease, has left me. I
have now consumedaboutfifteenbottlesof Warner’s
safe Cure and a few vials of Warner’s safe Pills,
and can certify that it is the only medicine of the
many I tried, which has done me any good, and
has brought my health tc its present satisfactory
state.” Mrs. Louis Coutts, of Gore, N.Z., writes;
“I have suffered for a number of years from an
affection of the bladder, combined with kidney
disease. The latter complaint was evidenced by
pains experienced in the back. There vas
a feeling of languor undermining my fornur
activity and good health, and I felt disinclined to
any exercise. Having undergone medical ti eat
ment for my complaint, without beneficial results,
I at the beginning of last year commenced the use
of Warner’s safe Cure. To my great and plea-
sant surprise, the second bottle greatly mitigated
my very painful symptoms. In all I took about
twenty bottles of Warner’s safe Cure, which has
thoroughly subdued my urinary difficulties.”
Many a physician is daily finding his patients,
long time chronic invalids, unaccountably restored
to health by the use of the new kidney specific.
New fangled notions are sometimes very valuable,
and it costs too much to foolishly reject them.
