

4i JL 0D *
SROCER for
FRY’S MALTED COCOA..
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydnry.
“ An ordinary cup contains more aotive properties oi malt than a pint oi the best Ale or Porter.”— Lancet
(327 PITT STREET, SYDNEY)
ESTATE AT
Overlooking the RAILWAY STATION.
■Slit Land ever Offered!
Seven Miles from City.
[V
township in in nntviiLi municipality!
Fu ture.
EASIEST TERMS.
LOOK AT THE TERMS !
° S| T. Ss. PER WEEK PER i ACRE BLOCK.
ss. Per -TX7-oels:I
to Pay off at any time. No heavy interest for suffh long terms.
|oy 0 a nd a-Half per cent. Discount for Cash.
I • r
y ll l J aid Off within Six Months, or Pay Monthly for Eive
%|j <lrS 5 P er Eight Years at 6 per cent., or
I Time) take isr {Unlimited lime
°iffy ss. per WEEK. 5s WEEKLY.
J
*"5
NORTH B ROOK
CLADSTnv F i 7
STREET
CA LED OAF/A AT
~7zr
2728
P J o
SgxTtttr.
23
28
75
26
28
3861
3233 n-
-22
24
23
22
29
?!
/8
IK
20
(9
26
-'7
16/5 I*l3/2
8 7
!3
/2
78
/5
Lis
BEACONSF! ELD
Sold
\ r »
-•••
22
*
23
3233
25
26
27
28
303/
26
27
28
S 4
2/
22
25
/5
8 7
20
1675
i 6 6 ;
'B/.
14/3
n /o
761 V
5 otct
l,k
f 9
C A
CO rf HE M A RA
I
i
7 -
♦r
Station
Deposit and ss. Weekly for Quarter Acres.
end- fox Plans and Prices to
&
AHILTON
ilnctioneei s,
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.
m
jm
"s&t
f(rDIPtBST&DPj
toiAUi A
fif/WAS //
T
Of net a Factory, vcmrrowm
6RMCfLCCaBC£ SI &Yt>N£Y
TOBACCO
ur.
u
UIXSOPSONS
jrtgfei* <f
d
r
ZpfXrs -
V 0 \0
IN THE
SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE:
•JON'S PAIN paint;
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS SCALDS, fco.
Mi* taken Internally cures DIARRHOEA
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC and aU other
'ifeernal aches and pains.
Mhb 9/* • o»4 gver/Y/Ucyf
- ft 1 iOPtJOH, MU m MIETOR.
AND BYDNEff
PAINT
w
office.
ANTED, Files of The Bulletin, for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
Monuments
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone.
Ikon Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request.
J. CUNNINGHAM,
MARGARET STREET. WYNYARD SQUARE. SYDNEY
cax7H]Eiisrsx J -A.isriD
Millar, carter and co„
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office —227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland,
Brittenberg & 0 0.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs and Mouldings
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are ts
be found In the “ LIGHT AND
4V8," for eha Speedy Cure of Nervous Do
allity and Kindred Diseases, fto. A copy of thli
Book will be Bent Tree, sealed, for Six Penny
4tames. Address —
8. WARD ft 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney
B CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE'S
(From Paris)
LadieB 1 and Oentlemen’a
Hairdressing Saloon
Ab the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING AND HAIR WORK,
french and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
PRIVATE ROOMS FOR DYEING THE HAIR.
Note the Address —
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
HAJ3ON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
208 to 269 Kent-atreet,
Sydney,
Hare always In STOCK (or
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agent! (or
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whlaky.
J. BORIN and CO. S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYENS
Bohnappi and Geneva,
A, MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ala
jpATENT DIRECT ACTING
Htm rm,
For use in MINES, CHEMICAL WORKS; for
Working SHEEP-SHEARING MACHINES,
ROCK DRILLS, etc., etc.
Oveb Twenty Thousand (20,000) in Use.
Manufactured by tbc Westlnghouse Brake
Company (liimtted), London.
Full particulars on application to the Sole Agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
McLEAN BROS., BIGG A CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M
O
6
IRONMONGERS
X
o
k/
o
*
&
<b
W REG -
a
Harts,* H«arVns.HLac,laln», l£no UuXkv&'UiXX
KLKOTIIO-PIuATKU WAXB, OUTUSK’S, TOOLB,
HAS OOOKINQ BTOVKB »—IiKONIS VLSTOHBK3. JKANB k WALKKK'B,
BRADFORD’S WASHING* MACHINES, fco., ko.
INSURE YOUR HEALTH! ~
AGAINST ALL RISKS"
HE'S FLUID UASIES)
Cl Oools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of D isea
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTB
(Vidt Medical Testimonials, Analysis, tfec., accompanying each bottle •
TAKE ONLY _ KRIJSgS
Sold in Bottles at Is 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. ea 0 * 1.
—SOI
Wholesale Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT
A LUViiilil DAiJJIr,
aasaMful complexion, soft, smooth and delicate neck, face, hands and arms can beat he
iy discarding all leaden and greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, not being
fKMJu on the skin cannot possibly hare any good effect on it, and by using
owlandA’
Klalydor
fS Soollng, soothing, healing and refreshing preparation for the face, hands and
Ito the heat and dust of summer or the cold and damp of winter; it era “is® of b® ■
axposed I
tan, sunburn, stings, redness and
md roughness of the skin caused by cold winds or the nse tioii,
. discolorations, chilblains, eczema, etc., relievos m.mooth
.... ns, chilblains, eczema, etc., relievos m«mootb am
hums, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully »* tbe gun
pleasant. Gentlemen after shaving will find it allays all irritation and tenderness on
It is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, can be used with ' ,
akin of the most delicate lady or child, . . th* sf a ® <
4s. 6d and Ss fld. per fcottl®; bottle* of haw
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL promote# the fiowth o 2 th«
4.-no nold m a golden colour for fair-haired people £
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whiten® the teeth, prevent# decay.flat** 2
pleading fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS’ article#, ©*
T vw~.wd-V.lc.no im’—
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Eixiom Bbos., and B. Pbossbb 4 uo
e r: v o u
s
FREE
D
MEDICAL
E
BOOK.
B
d*»”
of
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist ln^^ o es
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-Cube FOB
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Addsess . a
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbal" V
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW
& pi
I* ii II lljfe'-a —J»—Bff'-li; .1 . Ill: !.'
Ml 111 l II" ii' 1 I
' M r i ~ :;rt liVv' • ' i'mui ! \ ) *ia
EBERAIL
'FEE
Al*A
$
AT THE CORNER OF
A axijk wmwiiit
Collins and King Streets, MELBOUBN >
is A\
Now Open for Busin eS
THE PALACE CONTAINS FIVE HUNDRED and FIFTY (550) ROOMS-
THE CUISINE AND TABLE APPOINTMENTS ABE A SPECIAL
M OPK«^
Special Accommodation for Families and Permanent Boarders.
■r 9 o£»" —*jP ° • V
G-eo. Coii.oD-1.


The Bulletin
Vol. 9—No. 449.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1888.
Prici, 6i
“Don’t You Feel Well, Young Man ?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the Australians.”
IPBOPRIETORS % BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. s
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
to 2i PiTt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
flPer Annum, ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... olt 6
Quarterly ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin’’ will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
Sterling —which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—ymi
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15 1888.
The Prerogative of Withholding M[?]rey.
By a striking manifestation of the ironical
ways of Providence, Benjamin Kitts, a
Queensland citizen of no particular account,
has recently served as the instrument for
overturning one more of the ancient super-
stitions on which Australian “ loyalism " is
built. Tha rapid rise of the National party
in the Northern colony has for months past
created sorrow and vain regret among tha
little gathering of Imperialists who liquor for
the faith that ’a in them ; and an opinion
steadily grew up that the time was at
hand when something should be done to stay
the inrushing tide of disloyalty, disaffection,
republicanism, and other sentiments tending
to subvert the fetiches of the Dark Ages in
which the soul of the imported Conservative
finds its joy. The sun of a new era was
rising, and the representatives of the old era
were seized with a desjre to put some-
thing heavy on top of it to hold it steady.
Accordingly, Sir Anthony Musgrave, as the
distant reflection of Britain’s Imperial crown,
seized upon a favourable opportunity to put
his foot down, and the difficulty which he
experienced in afterwards getting ib up again
furnishes a pitiable commentary on the decay
of vice-regal dignicy in Australia.
* * *
A few months ago, Benjamin Kitts, act-
ing in hi 3 private capacity, and with no
desire to create international complications,
lifted four boots which did not belong to
him, and shortly afterwards his nefarious
career was cut short by a Draconian sentence
of three years’imprisonment, being attherate
ofninemonthsfor eachodd boot. The offence
was the first which the prisoner had com-
mitted, the plunder was woefully trivial in
amount, there were no aggravating circum-
stances attached to the case, and altogether
the affair was of a kind which is generally
met in the police courts with a sentence of
from one to three months’ confinement.
Kitts, therefore, received about 30 times
the punishment usually attaching to his
crime, but anomalies of this description are
so common that the incident excited little
comment in legal circles. Law throughout
the British Empire is a chaos of irreconcil-
able foolishness; the crime which one day
involves a fine of is visited on the next
with a long term of penal servitude ; but
amid the incoherence and shapelessness of a
deranged and inebriated cede one fact stands
out distinctly—that “Proputty” must be
respected. Kitts received, on account of
two pairs of boots, a sentence twice as
heavy as that which frequently rewards the
crime of manslaughter, and very few seemed
to realise that a monstrous atrocity had
been perpetrated. But, in addition to this
tremendous sentence, the judge positively
refused to give the prisoner the benefit of
the Offenders’ Probation Act—a merciful
provieion by which first offenders whose
crimes are of a trivial nature are released
upon their own recognisances subject to their
continued good behaviour for the future,
and here the MTlwraith Cabinet inter-
vened.
* * •
In the view of the Nationalist Ministry
abstract justice was worth more than four
boots, and they unanimously recommended
the Governor to release Kitts under the
provisions of the Offenders’ Probation Act,
the case being especially one of the kind to
which that humane measure was intended to
apply. IPs Excellency thereupon referred
the judicial outrage back to the judge by
whom it was perpetrated, and asked that
gentleman to state candidly whether it was
or was not a disgrace to humanity at large.
A reply was promptly returned to the effect
that the sentence was in every respect a
credit to a Christian community, and on the
strength of this unbiassed opinion Sir
Anthony Musgrave declined to exercise the
“prerogative of mercy” which is vested in
and misused by the representatives of the
Imperial Crown. The unspeakable, glaring
foolisbnessof the method by which the Queens-
land viceroy arrived at his decision was not,
it may here be mentioned, a folly of his own
invention, but is part of the general system
pursued by Australian Governors. When
an Australian judge commits a gruesome
atrocity in the name of “Justice” the
petrified failure who represents the Throne
is the only court of appeal open to the
victim. Accordingly, his case is submitted to
this highly-paid authority, and he—probably
considering, with some show of reason, that
his intellect is useless at such an emergency
—refers it back to the judge for considera-
tion. The prisoner’s appeal is virtually an
indictment of his judge for tyranny, oppres-
sion, brutality, ignorance, or stupidity—
sometimes for all these combined, and the
officer who is accused of this variety of
crimes is instructed to try himself and re-
port if he is guilty. With remarkable
unanimity he finds that he is not guilty. His
inquiry into the case is literally an
informal assize of one man, in which the
accused wears the jadge’s clothes, and
smokes the jadge’s cigars, and puts the
judge’s feet up on the table ; and it invari-
ably ends in the acquittal of the defendant
by himself amid loud and enthusiastic ap-
plause. A chivalrous regard for the feelings
of highly-paid judges and a total disregard
for the interests of possibly innocent prison-
ers generally prevents an Australian Gover-
nor from interfering with a judicial sentence
unless the judge, by whom it was passed,
is prepared to admit that it is an outrage
upon the name of justice, and as no judge,
however incompetent, ever makes such an ad-
mission, it follows that in the gaols are many
victims who are dragging out stupendous
sentences for the most insignificant crimes.
Benjamin Kitts’ case was duly “ consi-
dered ” in this fashion, and the alleged
holder of the “ prerogative of mercy,” being
duly assured by the judge that he—the said
judge—had acted as every judge ought to act,,
announced as his final decision that the case
did not admit of interference. The Nation-
alist Cabinet, in veply, declared in courteous
terms, but with uumistakeable firmness, that
the claim of the Governor to act in defiance
of the Executive Council in any matter re-
lating to the administration of justice in the
colony was an absurdity and an attempt to
revert to the absolutism of the Dark Ages,
and a contest between the representative ot
the throne and the representatives of the
people began in earnest,
» * *
The strongest argument on behalf of the
Cabinet was allowed—possibly through the
generosity of Sir Thomas MTlwraith and
his colleagues—to remain in oblivion during
the course of this struggle between latter-
day absolutism and constitutional Govern-
ment. ThB Queen’s deputy nny, or may
not, possess a technical claim toacba3lhe
final court of appeal in criminal cases, but
the office has long since been prostitute l and
degraded by the manner of its administra-
tion, and the claim his been forfeited by
the imbecility of a long succession of Austra-
lian Governors. The full iniquity of the
manner in which this alleged court of appeal
has been carried on can only be appreciated
when the villainous injustice of the Austra-
lian criminal system is taken into considera-
t’on. In these colonies, as in all other parts
of the British Empire, the slavish devoti in
to the interests of “ proputty ’ provides
every possible facility for appeal after appeal
in cases where visible assets are concerned ;
but the same code which exhausts its inge-
nuity to fencs rouad the owner of £5 in
cash with multitudinous safeguards against
the loss of his worldly possessions, hur-
riedly rushes the alleged murderer or forger
through his trial, and, once condemned,
denies him any facilities, however meagre,
for obtaining a judicial revision of his
sentence. Consequently his one hope of
mercy if he be guilty, of justice if
he be innocent, rests upon an appeal
to the Crown or its visible repre-
sentative, and so disgracefully impotent is
British “ justice” that, should the innocence
of a convict be demonstrated, he is com-
pelled to accept a “ pardon” for the offence
which he never committed, owing to the
absence of any legal machinery by which
his sentence can be reversed. Thus the so-
called prerogative of mercy is in reality only
the right of an imported viceroy to ad-
minister the justice which the dismal folly
of British and Australian law-givers has
otherwise denied. Mercy, in law, is an un-
known circumstance. No crioun d —at leas;
no poor criminal—is ever reprieved for mere
sentimental reasons ; his sentence is merely
commuted owing to extenmting facts, which
means either that the judge has done an
injury to justice by declining to consider
certain evidence in the prisoner’s favour, or
that a brutal law has given him no scope for
discriminating between various degrees of
guilt, and therefore the Executive finds itself
called upon to alleviate the barbarism of a
code which it ought rather to abolish. The
privilege claimed by the Crown is merely that
of undoing judicial wrongs, and the fact that
this function is supposed to appertain to the
Queen’s deputy furnishes the one and only
apology for the existence of that high-priced
figurehead in a Democratic land. But the
conduct of Sir Anthony MusgraVe and
many of his colleagues has so utterly dis-
graced and degraded this function that by
every possible interpretation of human right
it has long since been forfeited. In civil ap-
peals the judge who originally tried the case
under consideration is not allowed to take
part in the hearing, but in the case of Kitts,
and in multitudes of others equally unjust,
the prisoner’s appeal was actually referred
to the judge whose sentence was ap-
pealed against, and his decision was held to
be final ! And in thus delegating his sacred
trust, in utter disregard of every principle of
justice, we hold that Governor Musgrave,
like the majority of his vice regal compeers,
was guilty of an act which destroyed past all
redemption hi 3 claim to hold the royal pre-
rogative. The right of appeal having been
virtually annulled by the Governor’s act, Sir
Thomas MTlwraith and his colleagues de-
manded, in the name of every principle of
justice, that it should be restored, and their
resignation was the result of a final resolve
to disclaim every shadow of responsibility
for an act of useless and unreasoning
tyranny.
# # *
Sir Anthony Musgrave’s action was
literally a declaration that every judge in the
criminal courts is an infallible autocrat for
whose acts of injustice there is no redress,
while the MTlwraith Cabinet insisted
that the right of appeal should be a reality
and not a farce, and that human life
and liberty should not be recklessly sacrificed
merely that a highly-paid official should not
be injured in his professional vanity. The
privilege for which the Governor contended
in the case of Kitts was the sole right not
to grant but tj refuse mercy, and the
“ mercy ” of the Queen’s representative, in
his capacity as the last court of criminal ap-
peal, being merely a synonym for tardy
justice, it foJlo vs that it was the sole and un-
divided power to refuse justice to which Sir
Anthony adhered with so tenacious a grasp.
And the fact that the viceroy did not even
personally consider Krtts’ appeal but re-
ferred it entirely to the judge against whom
the appeal was directed, addled still another
feature to this preposterous and inhuman
assertion of prerogative, and placed the
Queen’s well-meaning but miserably incom-
petent deputy in the position of a judge
who claimed the right to condemn a prisoner
without a hearing. In his utter ignorance of
the commonest forms of natural justice the
Governor of Queensland posed before all
Australia as the champion of the inalienable
right of the British crown, either personally
or through its deputy, to be more brutal
and unjust than any of its subjects, and as the
defender of its heaven-burn claim to be the
most degraded institui i n in all the wide Em-
pire which acknowledges us supremacy. And
in defence of this theory he pointed to his
“ Instructions,” which confer upon him the
right of final decision in cri ninal cases irre-
spective of any advice which may be tendered
him by his constitutional advisers, and
which also endow him with a vast vari°ty of
other powers the free exercise of which—if
any one of the Crown’s official shadows were
mad enough to test his delegated authority
to the utmost—would either establish him as
an absolute assistant monarch or else urge
an infuriated people to throw him into the
se?.
i * •
But the “Instructions” on which Governor
Musgrave based his lordly pretensions ware
promptly torn into tatters by the strong-
willed leaders of tha National party. Even
an Act of Perlianunt, he was informed,
could not override the unanimous voice of a
free paople raised to demand the lights
which belong to humanity at large, and the
instructions did not even possess the sem-
blance of legality which attaches to the most
corrupt acts of an elective legislature. At
the best tiny were nothing more than the
items of an elaborate printed form by which
the English authorities gave fatherly advice to
their representatives abroad as to the best
means of maintaining the interests of Im-
perialism, and as a means of over-ruling
the decisions of a united nation they
counted for no more than a pious tract
erected as a barrier to an Atlantic
billow. In Queensland, as in England,
the sovereign or sovereign’s deputy is author-
ised to act through the medium and by the
advice of the Cabinet, and if the Crown or
its appointed instrument declines to regard
the advice of the Cabinet it is reasonable to
ask that he should seek another Cabinet
whose counsel he would be prepared to accept.
A body of advisers whose advice is perempto-
rily declined would b 8 an anomaly in a con-
stitutional Government. Moreover, by an
elaborate diplomatic fiction, it is held that
the sovereign can do no wrong, and the
divinity which hedges in a monarch also
covers the monarch’s representative. The
wrong done to the obscure and insignificant
Benjamin Kitts, and the thousand similar
wrongs for which his might serve as a
precedent, would therefore have all
been heaped on the hesds of the M‘ll\vraith
Cvbinet if that combination had continued
to hold office when it found itself powerless
to redress an injury done to the meanest
member of the community* and in after years
it would have been remembered only as a
gathering of politicians who valued office
more than honour or equity. In tendering
its resignation the Nationalist Cabinet staked
its existence on the question of Government
by the people versus autocracy, and the
speedy collapse of the bogus emperor who
took his stand on the Crown’s prerogative of
refusing justice showed that the will of the
people was not to be subdued by parch-
ments and precedents. In the Assem-
bly Sir Samuel Griffith’s voice was
the only one which was raised in
support of Governor Musgrave’s claim to
sit on the throne of an absolute monarch,
and his cheap sneer to the effect that he
“saw no reason for the resignation of the
Government” passed almost unnoticed. If his
utterance meant anything, it implied that he,
if placed in a similar position, would have re-
garded a minor question of justice and
naiional liberty as not worth fighting for ;
but possibly his language was merely that of
a narrow-minded politician whose paltry
soul made it impossible for him to admit
that his adversary could be in the right. But
the position which he assumed made his
isolation miserably apparent. On one side
were the Cabinet, the Parliament, and the
nation ; on the other, the Governor—a
pitiable embodiment of elevated helplessness
and unsaleable dignity—and Griffith.
Hewart and the N.S.W. Premier.
By the time this issue of The Bulletin is read
by the public of New South Wales the prisoner
Hewart will be beyond the reach either of the
mercy or of the vindictiveness of the law..
Yet the hanging of Hewart is not altogether an
unmixed evil :
It is evidence that the Executive authorities of
New South Wales are hopelessly at variance with
intelligent popular sentiment.
It is evidence that there is one corner of the
British Empire whose legal administration is more
degraded and brutal, more despairingly in the
rear of human progress than that of any other
civilised country on the face of the earth.
_ It is evidence that the example of the en-
lightened nation* of Europe and America has no
influence on an administration lineally descended
from those who wielded power in the worst years
of colonial history, and whose traditions of gyve
and manacle survive in their children’s children to
the present time.
It is evidence that psychology, with its attend-
ant humanity, has yet to attract the attention and
engage the study of Australian scientists
But it will strengthen the hands of those who
labour for the abolition of Capital Punishment.
Hewart, however, was not allowed to go to the
gallows without some effort being made to gain a
commutation of his sentence.
The Premier of New South Wales was inter-
viewed on the convict’s behalf by a number of
citizens who claimed to represent the intelligence
and humanity, in contradistinction to the apathy
and callousness of the general public.
Hitherto we have regarded Sir Henry Parkes
as an adherent of the cause of moderation, an
opponent of Capital Punishment, a politician who
strongly favoured the abolition of the gallows.
He was once a member of the association pledged
to, work for the Abolition of Capital Punishment,
and his conduct on the occasion of a deputation
waiting upon the Governor of New South Wales
to obtain a reprieve for the untried though con-
demned Mount Rennie prisoners extorted our
admiration.
That admiration he has forfeited !
He met the deputation which waited upon him
and endeavoured to induce him to use his weight
and influence with the Executive on the side of
mercy and humanity in the case of Hewart with
a sample of the special pleading for which Sir
Henry is so famous—-when the circumstances of
the case preclude a reply to his specious argu-
ments.
He admitted that personally he doubted whether
Capital Punishment was a deterrent, yet he pro-
ceeds to take part in hanging Hewart.
In the case he was called upon to consider tbs
offence was so unique, so unparalleled, that the act
of execution can be regarded simply as a punitive
act, and, regarded as a punitive act, it is too grave
and terrible in its nature to adequately meet the
offence.
Sir Henry Parkes, upon receiving the deputa-
tion, said :
“ I admit the very serious issues in this case. But the
Executive Council was constituted by the Queen’s repre-
sentative and the Ministers who hold office lor the time
being ; and no death-sentence could be disposed of or be
entertained in any way without the Q leen’s representa-
tive being in his placj in Council, and being advised by
his Ministers.”
Very good ! but Sir Henry Parkes is Premier of
the colony, and occupies the position of chief ad-
viser to her Majesty’s representative. Besides, it
is no fault either of the prisoner or of the peti-
tioners that the Governor, whose power for mercy
is absolute, is absent during a juncture in which
the life of a fellow-creature is to be decided.
Parkes says that the Government of the
country was charged simply with carrying out the
law as they find it That it had neither power
nor function in tha province of trying the case,
nor of passing the sentence. The prisoner had
been tried by a jury of his countrymen on sworn
evidence. The trial had doubtless been an im-
partial one; the jury had returned a verdict of
guilty, and the judge had pronounced the death-
sentence. Wa3 the Government called upon to
set aside a sentence arrived at with due solemnity,
attended with the formal paraphernalia that apes
impressiveness, and which was “strictly in accord-
ance with the law of the country ?’’
Thus does Premier Parkes seek to wash his
hands of all responsibility in this man’s death.
But The Bulletin will not let him wash his
hands in this manner !
Parkes has ere this taken part in proceedings
intended to set aside a sentence arrived at with
alleged solemnity on sworn testimony and
“ strictly in accordance with the law of the
country.”
He attended a deputation to the Governor of
New South Wales and pleaded for the Mount
Rennie prisoners, and protested that a carrying-
out of the sentence would be a disgrace to the


community. Did he do this then merely to
hamper a rival and to heap unpopularity on a man
for whose position he was thirsting ? Was it only
a political move? ,
To those who pleaded for Hewart s life the
other day Parkes said
Tne Government did not make the law, and it could
not alter it; its duty under the oaths ol office was to
carry it out fearlessly and honestly, regardless of all other
considerations.”
This is a mere bagging the question. The Go-
vernment has a clear option in this case ; besides,
it does make law, and sanction law, and—when it
Suits—break law.
When an election cry is wanted Parkes can ex-
claim “lam superior to the law ! ”
When the popular vote wants flattery Parkes
can set the very Supreme Court at defiance, en-
gage in open warfare with the Judges, so far
transgress the statutes of his country that judicial
opinion sanctioned in advance any homicide which
might be done by the oppressed Chinese who,
taking the law into their own hands, should pro-
ceed to resist the tools Parkes used to carry out
his unlawful behests.
In reviewing the reasons set forth in the peti-
tion he never once took a merciful or a humane
view of any single clause, but replied to each in
that specious mode of plausibleness that seems to
fall so aptly from his lips.
Amongst the reasons set forth for a reconsidera-
tion of the case of Hewart were : That Park
was unknown to Hewart at the time of the
offence, and, consequently no premeditation could
be alleged.
Sir Henry Parses : “ That being admitted, this,
after all, was the position of tens of thousands of mur-
dered men, and in the annals of crime in thousands of
instances prior to the commission of a murder the mur-
derer and his victim were unknown to eaoh other. There
was no novelty in the fact of Park being unknown to
Hewart.”
But a man’s motives are always taken into con-
sideration in a court of criminal law. Homicide
without murderous intent is not murder, and it is
always necessary to establish pre-knowledge for
the purpose of showing murderous intent or the
case becomes one of merely killing while under the
influence of unreasoning frenzy, in self defence, or
for the sake of immediate gain.
Moreover, all men killed are not murdered
and in the majority of cases in the annals of
crime cited by Sir Henry Parkf.3 a motive was
established, for although the victim may have bean
unknown to his slayer yet gain was the rational
and easily perceived reason for the commission of
the crime. ,
Again, to argue from what has already taken
place is begging the question. He ntight just as
well advocate the retention of obsolete forms of
punishment, defend the jus prirnat noctis claimed
by the seigneur over the serf, or the trial by ordeal
of the Middle Ages.
*
That it was not absolutely certain that Hewart
committed the offence, a 3 the evidence was purely
circumstantial.
Sir Henry Parkes : “ I would remind the deputation
that, according to the best legal authorities, circum-
stantial evidence, when it was proved to be without a
flaw was the strongest of all evidence, and to his mind it
was’absolutely certain that Hewart murdered Park—as
absolutely certain as evidence could make it.”
Sir Henry should have said that it was as “ abso-
lutely certain as police evidence could make it ”
Elsewhere he said that he did nob attach very
much importance to the dying depositions of the
victim Park. Why should he attach greater
importance to the evidence of those who it is
possible might have been anxious to establish the
case against Hewart as a shield to their own
contributory negligence?
•
That the only ascertainab’e motive for the com-
mission of the crime was an irrational one as
pointing to a want of sanity on Hewart’s part.
Sir Henry Parties : “ This might with equil re wo 1 be
applied to the greater number of persons who committed
■acts of murder.”
If so, then those persons should not have been
hanged.
The day is past when the irrational Dracoman-
ism of the hanging judge could masquerade as
justice, and whether those people who committed
murder for which no rational cause could be as-
signed were hanged or not is beside the question.
We say that such victims of judicial blundering
and scientific indifference have been wrongfully
hanged.
Otherwise, there could be no improvement in
the spirit and administration of civilised law.
Otherwise the first mode of punishment is the
best—the advocacy of the continuance of the use
■of the rack, the boiling-oil, and auto-da-fe of past
ages rests on quite as logical a basis.
Otherwise, national penal codes would fossilise
in petrified brutality, and tbe image of Justice
would be fittingly typified by Moloch or Jugg-r-
NAUT.
We point, for instance, to Italy with a certain
enthusiastic reverence, because the Italian Go-
vernment has the sense and the wisdom to recog-
nise the fact which Parkes so cheaply sets aside,
and to renovate the legislation c f the past with tbe
■spirit of the present.
Sir Henry might, in support of a systematic
.judicial barbarity, point to old-time Vandemoma,
where numbers of poor wretches have been put to
■death for sheep-stealing, and he might use such a
disgraceful argument for the purpose of denying
the possibility of advance or improvement in the
•administration of the laws cf New South Wales.
But an argument of this nature is a stullification
of the office Parkes himself holds—that of Pre-
mier of a progressive Democratic and representa-
tive Government.
„ • •
That, so far as the petitioners knew, Hewart was
-not an habitual criminal, but his previous conduct
had been that of a hard-working and fairly well-
behaved man.
Sir Henry Parkes : “The facts of the case upset all
uuch allegations. I find that Heweb r had 21 cDni\icticnß
recorded against him during the past 13 years for dis-
obeying orders on board ship, habitual drunkenness, ob-
scenity, exposure of his person, and in the face of these
•how could it be said that a man was fairly respectable
Yes ! Otherwise many of Parkes’ political
friends and staunch supporters, guilty, though
perhaps magisterially unconvicted of drunkenness
and its concomitant offences, come under the ban
of the ill-behaved and disreputable.
But here the New South Wales Premier is again
attempting to evade and equivocate from an
honest comment upon an honestly-advanced reason
for the reprieve of Hewart.
What the jury no doubt meant was that, so far
as they knew, Hewart had be9n guilty of no
serious offence. All the offences so laboriously
enumerated by Parkes to the prejudice of the
condemned were small ones such as are constantly
arising in the case of a man in Hewart s sphere of
life who is addicted to liquor.
We refuse to imagine for a moment that Sir
Henry Parkes denies the respectability of a man
who drinks.
He, more than any other man in New South
Wale", on acccu-t of his long experierce as a
public character, must at different periods have
known numbers of citizens—even men to whom
have been entrusted the most important offices of
Sbate and the highest positions in the country —
who have by much exceeded the exact bounds of
moderation in this respect, and of whom Sir
Henry has thought so highly and of whose re-
spectability he ha 3 been so assured that he has
risen in his place in Parliament to protect them
from the aspersions cast by others on their char-
acters both before their faces and behind their
backs.
• * *
That in the history of New South Wales there
had been instances of executions having been
carried out against the sense of many reputable
citizens, and that there may not be sufficient
evidence in this case.
Sir Henry Parses : “There was really nothing in such
an argument, as everyone who did not believe in the
principle of capital punishment must be shocked when-
ever an execution took place.”
There are more ways than one in which a
reputable citizen may be shocked at an execution.
He may (as Sir Henry himself apparently does)
consider Capital Punishment reprehensible on
general grounds; he may be shocked at the
manner in which any individual execution may
be carried into effect, or he may be shocked at the
carrying-out of an execution for an offence which
is not clearly proved, or which having been
clearly proved is not admitted to be of such a
character as to warrant the extreme penalty of
the law—even if it were granted that Capital
Punishment was the most salutary mode of deter-
ring prospective murderers from the commission
of crime.
There have been cases in which the act of hang-
ing has been hurried on with an indecent haste
that has shocked the entire community.
There have been cases in which during the
popular heat of an hysterical clamour men have
been done to death on the flimsiest evidence.
One of the most notable of such cases was the
execution of the Mt Rennie culprits, and this we
believe Sir Henry, who identified himself with
those who sought to save the boys from the
gallows, will hardly venture to deny.
As he is so fond of quoting the examples of the
past, why does he not apply the moral of Mt.
Rennie to the case of the prisoner Hew art?
In the same manner that popular sentiment in
New South Wales has been so far won over to
the cause of intelligence and humanity in the
Mt. Rennie case, that it now regards that
hempen holocaust only with execration and loath-
ing, so will it be gradually brought to regard the
execution of He wart as an act of barbarity
worthier the annals of the most degraded savages
than a nation which claims the maternity of the
Australias.
• * *
That, on account of Park's drunken condition
while in the cell, his dying depositions should be
received with great caution
Sir Henry Parkes: “I do not attach very much im-
portance to the dying depositions of Park ; but, after all,
they were not very material to the issue.”
Sir Henry, by discounting so seriously the
value of Park’s dying depositions, throws the
entire burden of proof upon the unimpeachable-
ness of the circumstantial evidence and the testi-
mony of the police.
The circumstantial evidence is weak on technical
grounds, and the testimony of the police is in-
flected by their desire to make a case, in the first
instance, and to divert attention from contribu-
tory neglect on their part, in the second.
• *
That the police had been guilty of contributory
negligence; it was not the first time that a, con-
vict while under the control of the authorities in
Sydney had committed a capital offence, which,
under a proper system, could easily have been
guarded against.
Sir Henry Parkes: “As a Minister I deny this in
toto. They did all they could, as it was impessib'e for the
police to take charge of every man locked up, and I for
one think it would be not ooly impossible but improper to
lodge every man arrested in a separate cell The allega-
tion against the police was altogetner unfounded. It was
further alleged that this was not the first time that a con-
vict while under the control of the authorities in Sydney
had committed a capital offence, whi ih. under a proper
system, could easily have been guarded againsi. It is
impossible for the authorities to prevent the commission
of a crime if a man had criminal instincts. The law pro-
tected men walking in the streets, but it could not prevent
a man blowing out another man’s brains.”
Sir Henry, in denying the above statement in
toto, as a Minister,” simply denies it as.the head
of the Police Department, and no man is a com-
petent judge in his own cause.
As to its being not only impossible but improper
for the police to put every man arrested in a
“ separate cell,” this only amounts to an assertion
that one drunkard is safer in the custody of
another drunkard than in the custody of a police-
man.
A large number of people will cordially agree
with this, though probably not in the manner in.
tended by Sir Henry Parkes.
According bo the statement of Senior-sergeant
Scott, He wart was locked up for maliciously in-
juring a screen at a public-house.
The offence was in itself irrational and motive-
less, and He wart was not charged at the lock-up
with being drunk simply because he had been
given in charge for destroying property.
In the words of Mr. H. W. Hodgson, foreman
of the jury that tried the case
“Tha effect of the drink on the victim was to, as it
were paralyse him, and the effect on the piisoper was to
make a madman of him ; for it is hardly conceivable that
a min in his sober senses would or could commit so hor-
rible an outrage.”
All the evidence, indeed, effectually disposes of
the notion that the police did not know that
Hewart had been rendered frenzied bz drink,
and of Sir Henry Parkes’ apology for their con-
tributory negligence
As to his denial that preventive offences had
occurred in New South Wales prison?, it is only
necessary to point to the case. of Johns who,
though under sentence of imprisonment-for life,
was permitted to ieceive constant and unsuper-
vised visits from a woman, and jealousy arising
from her presence in the prison was the traceable
cause of the deed which led to h's execution.
There is no doubt at all that Johns’ frantic act
was the outcome of bis jea’ousy —this was the only
assignable cause for his assault upon a man whom
he was hanged for wounding.
Sir Henry has made the colony what it is. -tie
is a great believer in individual force of chaiacter
and the weight of personal influence.
For close upon half-a-century he. has wielded
the lasli of power and handled the reins of govern-
m Whatever New South Wales is, Parkes, by his
own showing, has made it. .
What a confession of weakness and impotence
therefore is it for him to admit that the authorities
have not prison accommodation enough to furnish
separate cells for his country s drunkards !
Either during his rule he should have made all
the people sober, or he should, having permitted
many of them to get drunk, have provided de-
psrtmentally for this cellular contingency.
What a satire, too, upon representative Govern-
ment, for this old Parliamentarian to stand up in
the richly-furnished room in the Executive
Chamber in Macquarie-street—a room about the
cornices of which still linger the sbale fumes of
official whisky—and maunder over the lack of
accommodation for individuals who drank beyond
the bounds of moderation in the humble sphere
of obscure boozerhood !
Sir Henry's statement that it is impossible for
the law to prevent the commission of crime by
those possessing criminal instincts is practically
an admission that there is no such a thing as
deterring a man from crime if he wants to com-
mit it.
This, from our point of view, is quite true and
philosophical : the instinct is stronger than the
steps taken to suppress it. But, coming from
Parses, it simply means that he is administering
a law in which he has no belief, and if he were
a man who cared for the interests of the country
over which he presided he would legislate in the
matter of the criminal law.
For Parses to say that the law is powerless to
protect citizens from men possessing criminal
instincbs is only another way of saying that
although the country has manhood-suffrage the
suicidal tendency of its voters always militates
against their interests, for they stultify their best
aspirations b 7 the election of a man like the
present New South Wales Premier.
• * *
That Hewarb could have no rational motive for
the act, nor any hope of escape after committing
it, being locked up in a police-cell at the time.
Sir Henry Parkks : “The question of insanity had
been brought forward, but after consulting with Dr. Man-
ning and others the Executive had arrived at the conclu-
sion that in this case there was no evidence to point to
any sign of incipient insanity.”
Yet Hew art’s acb speaks more eloquently than
Dr. Manning's opinion of the condition of his
mind.
The average doctor can more often make a mis-
take in saying that a man is not mad than in say-
ing that he is.
We would recommend to the attention of Dr.
Manning the first chapter of Dr. Savage's mono-
graph on ‘ Insanity and Allied Neurosis,” in
which the terrible discrepancy between the medical
and the legal definitions of madness are lengthily
dwelt upon—a discrepancy, be it remarked, which
has occasioned the grossest miscarriages of justice,
and which should be adjusted for good and all.
Either blirow open the lunatic asylums and re-
lease the hundreds therein confined of whose vio-
lent lunacy we h ive no such terrible proof as that
which, it is alleged, has been afforded by Hewart,
or else immediately trice up your mother to the
triangles for being subject to puerperal hallucina-
tions, or hang your father for being afflicted with
the general paralj sis that attends senility.
The facb is, medicine looks for an organic cause
for lunacy that cannot be probed and examined,
or it selects an isolated example or an isolated o>
casion in a man’s life, and seeks in it for the proof
which probably extends over years of his life.
Medical evidence in cases of insanity, unless the
doctor be a man of rare psychologic gifts, inverts
the ordinary process of ratiocination.
Who would form an opinion of a man’s char-
acter, even in the every-day business of life, from
an hour’s conversation or a week’s acquaintance?
Yet the gravest decisions are arrived at on the
most cursory examination, though the cause may
be hidden, and the circumstances which induce its
abnormal action lie in abeyance.
It is wonderful to note how readily doctors con
sign a man to the cold shades of an asylum if he
is well-connected and influential and hai com-
mitted some offence against the laws of his coun-
try from the consequences of which his friends
desire bo shield him.
When an obscure man’s life is sought by the
law, the medical testimony seems always to assume
a rigorously righteous and cautious aspect, and to
hesitate when the claims of the hangman are
clamorous.
See the case of the Deniliquin horse stealer who
was pronounced to be sane by the medical com-
mission sent to examine him, because while the
man was alive the bop of his skull could no) be
lifted off and the condi von of his brain examined.
He escaped, but was drowned while swimming
across a river, and a post-mortem examination re-
vealed a tumour the size of a walnut in his brain
This happened not so very long ago.
* * «
That the jury recommended Hewart to mercy,
thereby recognising his crime to be that of murder
in the second degree.
Sir Henry Parkes: “ With regard to the recommenda-
tion of the jury to mercy, the verdict disproved the idea
that they regarded the crime, as advanced, as murder of
the second degree, as the recommendation, according to
t ie judge’s report, was based upon the prisoner’s previous
good conduct, which had been disproved. The question
of previous good conduct could not have any weight in
the matter of a capital offenoe."
Yet why should the question of good conduct
nob have weight in a capital offence ?
Does not a man’s career throw some light on his
motives ?
Is nob Sir Henry Parkes’ career held bo throw
light on his motives ?
But the contention that the jury did not con-
sider the offence as one of murder in the second
degree is false, as the following letter to a member
of the deputation which waited on Sir Henry
to plead for mercy to bs extended to the mau
Hewart, and subscribed by a juryman, will
amply show :
Aberfoyle, Point Piper-road,
l’addington, Sept. 4, 1888.
Re Hewart, under Sentence of Death.
M. F. Bowmaker, Esq.—D ar Sir,—l called at the
Temperance-hall this morning and gladly availed myself
of the opportunity to sign ihs pet.tion praying that
mercy may be extended to the pri-oner. 1 regret very
much that the jury had not the option of recording a
verdict pf manslaughter or of murder in the second
degree; at the same time we never anticipated the
carrying out of the capit 1 punishment, hence our
unanimous recommendation to mercy. Tee prisoner
apparently bears a good character, and I feel sure the
crime was in no way premeditated. The police are much
to blame in the matter and are deserving of censure in
placing two intoxicated persons in tie one small cell
without proper supervision. Trusting the appeal for
mercy may be the means of sparing the unfortunate
man’s life. —Yours, &c.,
Robert Williams
(One of the Jury).
In addition letters have been written to the
daily press by H. W. Hodgson, foreman of the
jury which tried Hewart’s case, stating that
“The recommendation to mercy was agreed to unani-
mously on general grounds."
Mr. E. J. Holringdale, another juryman,
writes: —
“ As one of the jury in the case of the condemned man
Hewart, now lying under sentence of death, I deem it
necessary in the interests of justice to point out that in
reoommending the prisoner t) mercy the jury did so with
the firm belief that their recommendation would be the
mean 3 of preventing the dread sentence from being carried
out.
“ Taking into consideration the peculiar circumstances
of the ca=e, I really think that a reprieve should be
granted, as the crime was not premeditated, and was to a
certain extent brought about by the culpab’e negligence
of the police.
“ I am quite sure that I re-echo the sentiments of th 9
remainder of the jury when I siy that it is their earnest
wish that the extreme penalty of the law in this case
should not be carried out.”
Ten of the jury have written in the same strain.
The other two jurymen cannot be found.
• »
That pending an amendment of the law, it would
be a gracious action on the part of the Executive
to recognise the principle of gradations, and that
the case of He wart should be regarded as one of
murder in the second degree.
Sir llexry Parkes: “The last section of the petition
could not be entertained. I affirm that the Government
has no right to do anything in respect to the carrying out
of the existing law in view of any possible amendment."
We can reply to this what we have advanced
elsewhere. The fact that Park.es himself admits
that he disapproves of Capital Punishment, and
was, at one time, a member of a society for its
abolition; his opposition to all law and order when
it suited him to court the populace by legislating
over the heads of the Supreme Court judges
against the Chinese, and his own attempt to
obtain a commutation of the sentence of the Mt.
Rennie prisoners, which, after all, is one of the
brightest spots in his whole career.
If, as Sir Henry alleges, there is a class whose
only motive for the commission of crime is an
“ insatiable love of cruelty,” why does he and the
Government of which he is the head cherish and
foster that love of cruelty by choking men to
death for the purpose of showing how sacred a
thing is human life ?
A stream rises no higher than its source, and
cruel executions beget cruel murders.
Who arc the Drones?
A correspondent writing to the Northern
Miner under the nom de plume of “Clontarf,'’
and requesting subscriptions for the colliers now
on strike at Newcastle, New South Wales, backed
up his application by a quotation from The Bul-
letin stating that Labour in any one or in any
half-dozen of its branches could not expect, let
alone hope, to secure anything like a genuine
victory, as Capital is so closely organised and so
strong in Labour’s own results that it can
practically do what it likes —-because it is in
the main portable and Labour is not. More-
over, that when Labour is so keenly alive
to its own interests as to see what affects
one part affects the entire body; that should
a principle be touched in the farthest and
most remote branch, the entire body of workers
will suspend operations, that then, and then only,
will Labour be on a footing to secure even
moderate terms from its opponent. “Clontarf”
makes this the basis of his appeal and awakes the
slumbering pugilism of the renowned Thadkus
O’Kane, who arises in his might and buckles on
the armour of his sires to do battle against the
cause of local Labour, devoting a sonorous leader to
a wholesale anathema of everything connected witlj
a disturbance of the present condition of things in
general, and the relations between the mine-
owners and the mine-workers of Newcastle in
particular.
# » «
Says the bellicose O’Kane :
“ If Labour wants Capital it must pay for its use the
current rate of interest. It is idle to talk of dividing the
aceum llated capital of the world among all hands —the
drones and the industrious alike.”
Now, what does this mean, if it means anything ?
■‘lf Labour wants Capital it must pay . . .
the current rate of interest.” Ifow is it possible for
that already dignified b 7 the name of Labour to
be immediately afterwards confounded with the
“ drones ? ” Do “ drones ” labour ? In a pre-
vious portion of his article Thadkus has already
admitted that •“ Capital is stoied-up Labour : it
is or should be an agent, not a principal.” Yet
he capnot conceive of anything stored up without
a storer apart fropi the original creator of the re-
sults of that labour. To this storer of his labour
the workman, if he wants capital, “must pay for
its use the current rate of interest ” This is a
de'ence, pure and simple, of the conduct of those
banditu in Calabria and other civilised spots who
first kidnap a man and then roast him before a
slow fire until he signs a letter authorising some-
body to pay an exorbitant sum for his ransom-
The reference to the idleness of talking about
dividing the accumulated capital of the woild
among all hands—the drones and the industrious
alike—is in itself sheer idle twaddle, for the
“drones” have it already. “ Clontarf ” asp, ip
the name of the common cause of Labour, that all
workmen should help tieic fellows now on strike
atNewcistle. Ths rem erk, when used in connec-
tion with the miners, is drivelling idiotcy,for what-
ever errors of judgment they have committed they
certainly are not “drones.”
*
4.nd in what sense can a greater share in the
fruits of it 3 own creation given to Labour be re-
garded ps a robbery of the industrious to an ad-
van tagement of the “ drones ? ” Do the ‘' drones”
pass the greater part of their lives in the grimy
bowels of the earth, exposed to the dangers of
firedamp, suffocation, and entombment by
caving mines ? Do the industrious wear white
waistcoats laced with gold cable across yards of
bloated flesh, do they drink champagne and
smoke choice Havannahs ? Is it to the “ drones ”
the world looks for its food, its fuel, its clothing?
Are those the industrious who manage great en-
terprises for their own exclusive benefit, who draw
dividends which they have never earned, who
feast on the fruit of another's labour ? Says the
Nqrthern Miner, alluding to the colliers of
Newcastle :
“ What intelligent or prudent action can be expected
from the most ignorant and brutal section of the com-
munity? They are driven like bullocks, as their drivers
wish.”
4md this is the most tremendous indictment on
which Labour can arraign Capital! We are
brutal, the labourers may say, we are unintelligent
and imprudent that you may be refined and polite,
clever and cunning. We are ignorant because all
our existence is taken up with the labour the re-
sults of which enable you to educate your children
and provide ours wioh a future generation of task-
masters. We are bullocks to be driven simply be-
cause you carry the goad, and when we refuse to
bs driven any longer our quondam friends, like the
Northern Miner, turn round and bark at our
heels. We are eaten, simply because Capital, ilke
Gabbett, iB the man who carries the axe.
# •
The O’Kane then accords his patronage to the
anti-Chinese party, which, he says :
“ Deserved to bs encouraged and supported ; but when
it has degenerated into a mere question of wages, the
movement will receive no support nor encouragement from
the working men of this field.”
What, in the name of all that is wonderful, was the
anti-Chinese question if not mainly a question of
wages from its very inception ? Capital wanted
cheap labour, and favoured the introduction of the
Chinaman ; Labour objected to the cheapening
of its efforts and insisted on the Chinaman
being driven out of the country. “ A mere
question of wages ” indeed ! Is the O’Kane


ao simple as not to know that, under exist-
ing conditions, wages mean life and hope,
food and comfort, education and refinement, in-
telligence and independence ? Whence do you
fet your patriots and your men of advanced ideas ?
'rom the wage-slaves who toil long weary hours
for a miserable pittance insufficient to keep the
soul from bursting out of the emaciated body,
amongst the wretches who starve and moil in
slums and hovels, or amongst the men who claim
a fair proportion of the advantages of being alive
in a free atmosphere and treading the soil of a
free land ? No, all those who would have an in-
dependent Australia, must learn to recognise a
drone in broadcloth when they see him specu-
lating in flesh and blood !
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great Fall at Redfern.
The brilliant success of the New South Wales
Protectionist party at the Redfern election last
Saturday is a certain proof that the tide has
turned in bitter earnest for the Parkes Foreign-
tirade Administration. At the last general elec-
tion the Foreign-tra4e candidate who headed the
poll was some 1800 votes ahead of the defeated
Protectionist, and the fact that this result has been
transformed into a majority of 862 votes for the
advocate of Australian industry shows a solid gain
pf over 2600 adherents to the National cause. The
.total number of voters who polled was much the
same in each case. At the general election the
leading Foreigh-trader and the leading Protec-
tionist scored between them 5385 suffrages against
a total of 5062 recorded on Saturday; but the
solid phalanx of nearly 3600 electors who rolled up
in the first days of Parkes’ glory to boost the
interests of English and German and Chinese
labour has melted away like snow, and only
2105 can now be found to scream for the lost
cause of cheap goods and no money to buy
them with. Two years ago the friends of
Australian prosperity could only, by the exercise
of their best efforts, bring 1800 supporters to the
front, but a long course of Foreign-trade policy
has recruited their ranks, and last week nearly
3000 answered to the call. It is a melancholy
commentary on the utter ruin of Calico-Jimmyism
in New South Wales that neither the S. M.
Herald nor the Telegraph has mustered energy
enough to publish the customary leading article
showing that the destruction which befell their
cause at Redfern was really a “moral victory,”
and that the defection of 2600 electors was a
hidden way of proving that the Freetrade cause
Was every day gaining strength; and the cus-
tomary whoop of John Haynes regarding
“ denominationalism ” is also buried in unwonted
silence. As a matter of fact, the Yellow Pup was
called upon as usual, but this time he refused to
respond. The Orange lodges were appealed to in
the customary fashion to give a solid vote for
Freetrade, and they replied, in effect, that they
would see Freetrade interred first. For once, too,
the party organisation on both sides was about
equally good. The New South Wales Protection
Association is at last getting into fighting order,
and the old-established Foreign-trade league is
met upon its own ground. The latter
organisation now seeks sorrowful consolation in an
elaborate statement, as follows :
The result of the Redfern election will, it is to be
hoped, have the effect of a tonic on the sluggish Free-
trade party. Certainly this election is a disgrace to us in
more ways than one. If we cannot oppose the enthu-
siasm of truth to the frenzy of error we must expect this
sort of thing. There are on the Redfern electoral roll
4000 more voters than the number polled. Probably
1000 of these are non-resident, absent, or deceased ; but
this leaves no less than 3000 votes that were available,
but which were not recorded. There was, therefore,
«of strength in reserve, the bulk of which there is
e least doubt is Freetrade.
There is balm in the peaceful assumption that
the 3000 voters who didn’t die are almost all,
without the “least doubt,” Freetraders. Of course
they may be so. They may also be cannibals, or
they may be Protectionists almost to a man—the
balance of probabilities is in favor of the latter
theory. For the Protectionist is the work-
man, and he is less able than any other
to leave his daily toil for the purpose of recording
his vote. The Freetraders, on the other hand,
have their main strength among the leisured class,
and consequently their roll-up is far more unanimous
than that of their opponents. But still it would
be cruel to deny the followers of a lost cause what
little consolation they can derive from a calcula-
tion of what might have been if something else
hadn’t happened, and we can only urge the
Foreign-trade party to rally up these 3000 electors
who aren’t dead, and poll them all at the next
election —and win.
+
Grog and law.
The Bulletin repeats that the protection of the
publican by law, as in the case of the Connor
brothers who were lately sentenced to a month’s
Imprisonment for refusing to pay for two glasses
of rum consumed by them, is subversive of the
public good. The Licensed Victuallers’
Gazette objects to this expression, but the ex-
pression nevertheless conveys what is true. The
typical grog-seller of to-day is not an acceptable
tradesman in the eyes of the community or in the
eyes of the law. The dentist afftl tailor can begin
work when they please and leave off when they
please. The law limits the grog-seller both as to
time to start and time to finish. As many as like
may be tailors or shoemakers. Only as many as
the law likes can start grog-selling, and those are
’fined heavily, or licensed, before they begin. The
grocer’and baker may recover to any figure for
goods consumed, but the grog-seller only up to a
certain small amount. The law, therefore, ex-
pressly sets the publican’s calling apart from
those callings which are in their nature beneficial
to the community, and when the Gazette says
the trade is the same as other trades it
misses this truth. When the grog-seller was
a victualler he was, to an extent, a tradesman;
when he fed and lodged and did not merely make
drunk he had a value. Those publicans who still
discharge their full functions have still value. But
the publican who vends nothing but liquor is out
of the guild. The law tries to make his existence
unbearable, and society tries to make it impossible.
Nor is this a conspiracy of ignorance. The com-
munity knows, and the knowledge inspires the
law, that the man who only vends grog vends
poison. His chief dealings are with men already
half-poisoned. Why, then, should he claim to
stand on the same level as the milk-seller or the
baker? Throughout his whole business the law
has repudiated the notion that he is an acceptable
tradesman. Why, then, does the law, when some
half-poisoned or half-demented person comes along,
confer suddenly on the rum-seller the supreme
power of sending the man to gaol ? If the rum-
seller deserves to have this power, the
law should not treat him as it does in other
reßpects. Either the law is tyrannical in one
respect or it is illogical in the other. We do not
say that persons like the Connors deserve to escape.
Neither the Connors nor the publican they
dealt with are material to our argument. What
we say is that the law should not assist any pub-
hcan to send a man to gaol for non-payment for
drink consumed across a bar. Let the publican
obtain payment before his rum is drunk, or let
him, at the utmost, have power to proceed only in
civil form. The Gazette says:—
“ Would The Bulletin seriously defend the starvin
wretch who robs the baker of a loaf of bread or the
butcher of a pound of meat ? Certainly not. Protection
against encroachments of this kind is one of the funda-
mental principles of civilisation.”
The Bulletin would most certainly defend such a
“ wretch,” would deny wholly that his action was
robbery, would accept the risk of driving a hole in
civilisation. This shows that there is more than
one gulf between the Gazette and The Bulletin.
Nor is it probable that the gulf will be bridged
until the Gazette begins to see that the grog-
seller and the baker are tradesmen of different
stamps, and that a “starving wretch ” who helps
himself to bread and a drivelling tippler who asks
for rum are not petitioners of the same brand.
4
Mock Modesty.
The most disheartening feature in connection
with the sentence passed on HeWart, the alleged
murderer, is the conspiracy of silence entered into
by the Sydney daily press. Their Attitude in the
matter is fully explained by the following clipping
from a Sydney contemporary :
We notice that at the last hour a number of well-
meaning persons have sent round a petition asking for
Hew art h reprieve ; but, as the matter is one in which
from its very repulsiveness, the majority of our citizens
loth to take an active interest, it is hardly probable
that this tardy memorial can have any appreciable effect
on the Executive authorities, who will probably persist in
sending the man, whether sane or insane, to the gallows.
It is not for us to comment in any way upon the decision
whioh both our Courts of Justice and our Executive—as
represented by H.E. the Governor—have arrived at ; and
those who fully recognise the awful responsibility whioh
attaches to the power of life and death will understand
the inadvisability of criticising the decision which has
been come to, although it is at least an open question
whether such an execution will not be an ineradicable
stain upon our boasted nineteenth century civilisation.”
What time-serving twaddle! In spite of his
apologetic mode of speech, it is evident that the
writer considers that—“such an execution will be
an ineradicable stain on our civilisation.” Never-
theless he does not consider that it is “ for us to
comment in any way on the decision of our Courts
of Justice, and our Executive as represented by
the Governor ! ” Poor worm! The decision is
wrong, we are about to perpetrate a legal murder,
but let us kneel down and worship the Governor,
then if we never say anything rude about the
Ministry we will be allowed to circulate un-
molested on Sunday, and will probably get a fair
share of Government “ads.” That is the gist of
what he says; it has no other meaning to those who
are permitted to read between the lines. The
Bulletin was vain enough to imagine that it had
educated the Sydney press almost up to that
point where fearless criticism becomes as necessary
for the maintenance of self-respect as for the re-
tention of public support and respect. The
hope was vain; the wretched invertebrate rags
still mumble out toothless blessings when a gilded
fribble struts past, and are, doglike, prepared
to swallow former statements reflecting on the
conduct of anyone in authority, no matter how
urgent the occasion that called them forth.
“ Imported Labour.”
Someone signing himself “Citizen” wrote last
week to one of the daily papers prophesying that
in the event of the failure of arbitrator Brunker
to bring about a reconciliation between the mine-
owners and the mine-workers of Newcastle, New
South Wales, Capital will be driven to import
labour from abroad. Then, remarks “ Citizen ” :
“If the Belgian or German miners got 3s. per ton here
they would think themselves in Paradise, even at the
bottom of a coal mine; therefore, one of the certain
effects of the strike will be a reduction of the hewing rate
for coal; firstly, because of the effective labour of the
present miners working for themselves in the mines
whioh they will open ; and, seoondly, in consequence of
the importation of cheap labour from abroad.”
Then this chuckle-headed economist goes on to
gloat over the prospect of cheap labour and cheap
coal and cheap flesh and blood in every direction.
He anticipates that foreign competition will drive
down the price of Newcastle coal by 2s. to 3s per
ton, and thus concludes his epistle :
“ The public will be the ultimate gainers. Think of
what impetus to trade would a reduction of the price of
coal to that extent give, how Newcastle would go ahead
and what a boon it would be to large consumers ; there-
fore let us all make the best of the present situation. The
parties most interested will assuredly suffer, but the
general public will ultimately be the gainers. They will
find that out of the evil of the strike will come good.”
They will find nothing of the sort! Free compe-
tition and national misery ; Freetrade and
national bankruptcy go hand in hand; high
wages mean general prosperity ; low prices mean
general insolvency. “Citizen” says that a
cheapening of hewing rates would make New-
castle boom. A _ cheapening of hewing rates
would leave the miners less to spend with New-
castle tradesmen, and they, in turn, would be
compelled to be satisfied with smaller profits.
The widespread prosperity of the general com-
munity depends on the prosperity of every
branch of the working classes. Those coun-
tries in which, like England, labour is cheap,
are the countries in which small money circulates,
which maintain workhouses, and which are
crowded with tramps. As yet we have no farth-
ings in our coinage, no workhouses in our land, no
Bryant and May’s factories of half-starved
match-girls. But all in good time. Rome wasn’t
built in a day, and if we are patient we shall have
misery enow, and that shortly. The German
workman and the German-produced article are
driving the labouring classes to desperation in Eng-
land, and ‘ 1 Citizen ” is anxious that we should share
in all the advantages of Freetrade and the Imperial
connection with the dear old mother country.
With a retrogressive sort of political economy,
Citizen fails to recognise that cheap labour
means national decay and dear labour means
national prosperity. The day of damnation will
come soon enough, a day when shallow scribes of
the “Citizen ” type will not be able to afford pen,
ink, paper, or even time, to write snobbish and
silly letters to Foreign-trade, cheap-labour
journals.
Friends of Capital,
Saturday’s Sydney Echo says
“ The fact is that the day has apparently passed by
when Capital will have any friends in Parliament An
avowed sympathiser with it, either in weal or woe, is not
likely to find his way there.
What the Echo probably means is the million-
aire is losing his friends. Every session shows
that Parliament is still thronged with the hench-
men of capital. Money is not now, in the sense
in which it once was, In the hands of a Jew.
Syndicates and companies now hold it. But there
is a. capital every bit as much as when it stood
against the name of an emaciated miser, or a car-
bunded profligate. Nay, it was then sometimes
associated with a soul, but in the modern owner-
ship of syndicates and corporations there is nothing
to curse or kick; still this is the Parliamentary idol.
It has not alone friends in the House, but it makes
nine-tenths of the members. From session to
session the needy member lives on its smiles. The
day it closes its pocket he is doomed to outer
obscurity. The trader and the lawyer draw fees
and profits from it. Hence, as soon as a whisper
of an attack on it is heard eVery door opens, and
ffiembers scurry right and left out of the chamber.
Take the late motion for the abolition of distraint
for rent in the New South Wales Parliament.
Had Capital no friends then ?
4
The Sydney University authorities are charged
with leasing the paddock attached to the institu-
tion over which they preside to certain bucolic
persons, in the interest of whose cud-chewing
chattels they prevent residents in the locality from
taking an accustomed short cut across their
domain, while the boys of tile neighbourhood are
wholly excluded from their happy hunting-ground.
It seems evident that the grounds attached to a
public educational institution should either be de-
voted to the supplying of educational aliment or
used as a people’s pleasure-ground. If this
be granted, the policy which devotes them
to the fattening of bullocks, or the
providing of nurture for dairy cows is
clearly a mistaken one. The whole system of
land grants requires looking into. Only the other
day a sea frontage, handed over to a certain
ecclesiastical clique for bathing purposes, was
sold for a large sum. Probably bishops do not
bathe ; in that case they have no need for bathing-
places, and if they merely applied for a strip of
sea beach in order to exchange it for a liberal
portion of this world’s goods, then their self-
seeking action merits universal reprobation. This
shady transaction betrays not only their lack of
bodily cleanliness, as a class, but their utter want
of that moral cleanliness of which they have
hitherto been mistakenly accounted the official
guardians.
4
The turning-point in the Dibbs-Telegraph libel-
ease seems to have been the admission made by
manager Wynne that the offending article was
written by Mr. Bbient, the Telegraph’s
“ news-editor,” inasmuch as the jury were
thereby enabled to impute a certain amount
of malice to the defendants. It would ap-
pear that the Daily Telegraph, fired pos-
sibly by the example of David Syme, took it
into its head to transfer the control of New South
Wales politics from Parliament to the Press. It
decided to form a Ministry of its own, wherein Mr.
Barton was to be Premier, G. H. Reid, Attorney-
General, and Dibbs, Treasurer, if he would consent
to throw overboard his then colleague, Jennings.
When Bbient put this little scheme before Dibbs,
the latter bluntly said “No.” This repulse
didn’t suit Brient, and the jury probably
regarded the attack on Dibbs as one of
the consequences. As to the ostensible bone of
contention—the alleged cooking of the Treasury
accounts —it may be remarked that Dibbs is not
the first, and will not be the last, Treasurer to put
the very best poss i de face on the finances of his
colony, and a Treasurer will always find among
Eoliticians and the public a large number ready to
ack him up in arranging that the financial affairs
of the Australias shall, at whatever cost, cut a
brave figure among tho?e of the nations of the
earth. Every country is in business, and it seems
to be the especial business of the Australian colo-
nies just now to borrow as much money as possible
in Europe, so if Dibbs did take part in putting too
rose-coloured a tint on the aspect of affairs he did
it exactly on the same principle (though we do not
for a moment say by similar means) that the
Daily Telegraph people themselves the other day
announced an ad interim, dividend of 10 per cent.
In a word, the credit balance was Mr. Dibbs’ little
ad interim surplus. Apropos, Mr. Brient is not the
first newspaper man who has been metaphorically
“fired.out” by Dibbs in re turn for an attempt to bluff
that lengthy politician. It is related that some
time ago a certain wealthy shareholder in an organ
of alleged public opinion visited the New South
Wales Treasury and told G.R.D. that he would
be written out of office if he didn’t take the ad
valorem duty off printing-paper, or if he didn’t
meet the so-called journalist’s views regarding
train-arrangements. This threat led to the visitor
being shown the door, and politely told “ that he
might write and be d d.”
Here’s a bit from MTlwraith’s first speech
on Governor Musgrave’s refusal to follow the
Cabinet’s “advice,” which should be noted. The
delivery was simply magnificent, and the en-
thusiasm all round the House was very great:—
“ So far as the Government might be regarded as pre-
cipitate in action, the Governor had asked them to defer
the matter until they got the decision of the Secretary of
State, Lord Knutsford. He declined to do that, for two
reasons—on his own account and on the Governor's ac-
count. It did not matter to him what the decision of the
Secretary of State was. He held to the position, and if
the Secretary of State said he was wrong, he took up his
position all the same, and it would not be altered in the
slightest. He would then place his resignation in the
hands of the Governor. So far as the Governor was con-
cerned, Lord Knutsford's decision oould not affect him in
any way, for he had told them that any instructions even
from Her Majesty could not affect him in a position of
that sort. In a memorandum His Excellency said it
seemed to be out of the question, if his assent were neces-
sary, that by any royal instructions, or by any Act of
Parliament, or by any system of Government, a servant
of the public could be required to prostitute his own per-
sonal convictions at the direction of any other man or
body of men. They were to wait for Lord Knutsford's
deoision even after His Excellency had told them that
that decision mattered nothing to him. The decision,
whatever it might be, did not matter a straw to him
(M'llwraith) either ! ”
The cause of Australian nationality is safe in the
hands of a man who can speak like this. We call
this a trumpet-call to liberty !
“The Protectionists,” frankly says the
S. M. Herald, “ have gained a substantial victory
at Red fern, and they are entitled to rejoice.”
The Bulletin’s “ History of Botany
Bay ” —the last chapter of which is again un-
avoidably held over until next issue—will be pub-
lished on Bth October.
David Gaunson says that for six years the
Victorian Government has fed the people with
the sawdust of federation to the exclusion of
domestic legislation.
When the returning officer at the conclus-
sion of the Redfern (Sydney) Election called for
cheers for the Queen a few disloyal groans were the
only response from a crowd numbering 15,000.
In 1861 a bill to abolish the punishment of
death was thrown out on its second reading in the
N.S.W. Legislature. That is 27 years ago and it
is just about time that the bill were reintro-
duced. It would be supported by the Premier.
Mr. Dibbs has entered another libel action
against the Sydney Daily Telegraph in respect,
it is said, to comments printed in that journal
since the big trial which ended last weeek.
Damages are laid at £lO,OOO.
The Celtic Home Rule Club, Collins
street, Melbourne, is one of the most flourishing
clubs m the city.
At Melbourne Agricultural Show, the
other day, Spondulex, the winner of the hunter’!
prize, cleared 6ft. lin.
It ia rumoured that the late Hon. Edward
lood, M.L.C., has left £lO,OOO to a certain
eminent N.S.W. politician.
Sir Charles Warren, having proved a
miserable failure a 3 Chief Commissioner of Police;
will shortly receive a Colonial appointment.
The Age says “the M‘llwraith Ministry
is the first that has ever been ousted by a petty
larcenist. This is rough on Sir Anthony.
Bulcoclc, the Beatified (to the tune, vide -
licet, of £5O), has sought out green fields and
pastures new. He departed for “ home ” by the
s.s. Jumna.
A portion of the Cooper Estate at Botany,
Sydney, has just been sold to a syndicate for
the tidy little sum of £365,000. This is the land
which someone once charged Sir Daniel with
getting per means of the rum-barrel.
Ex-Premier Griffith dined with Governor
Musgrave the day before the Governor started
the Queensland dead-lOck by refusing the recom-
mendation of Kitts to mercy by the Premier. Two
and one make three, and three and two make five.
Sir Henry Parkes is apparently the only
Australian Premier whom anyone has attempted
to bribe, and, by the same token, Sir Henry
Parkes is the only Australian Premier whose name
appears three or four times in the Insolvency Court
records.
The man who passed the ridiculous sen-
on Kitts, which was the ultimate origin of
the Queensland deadlock, is Judge Noel. He is
famous for. his grand old English sentences all of
the olden time. A horrible lashing has just takeii
place at Townsville as the result of one of them;
Great historical events hang on slight causes,
and it is a moot point whether Noah would evei'
have cussed Ham if the festive old flood dodgef
had preserved the integrity of his system by
ri P Marshall s Tonic Nervine instead of ths
weird Semitic liquor that stole away his brains.
At Hewart’a execution the assistant-,
hangman refused, through nervousness, to pull the
bolt when ordered. What a falling off is here !
Never until now have we blushed for our sunbright
country. A nervous hangman ! This indeed is
o ;9 u k est blot on the hitherto unsullied escutcheon
of old Botany Bay.
When, after their long retirement in the
case Dibbs v. Sydney Daily Telegraph, the jury
returned from Darlinghurst to Sydney Supreme
Court on Friday morning, so confident were the
counsel on both sides in the case that no decision
would be arrived at that they were arranging to
have the case set down again for trial during the
present sittings. However, the judge happened
to be 20 minutes late in arriving, and in that 20
minutes the jury decided on a verdict for the
plaintiff for £lOO damages.
The N.S.W. Minister for Justice has de-
cided to offer for competition among the architects
of the colony a prize for the best plan of the pro-
posed new law courts. We cordially congratulate
Mr. Clarke on this move. All the immense sums
spent on public buildings in Sydney of late years
have been laid out m carrying into effect the designs
of one architect—Mr. Barnet, and although Mr.
Barnet is a good man, it is just about time, in the
interests of artistic variety, that the work of
making Sydney into a Barnetopolis were dis-
continued.
The Bulletin hears that a night or two.
before the Redfern nomination, one of the Parkes.
Ministry waited on the Orange Grand Lodge and,
demanded that Martin, the Freetrader, be officially
accepted as the Orange candidate. The Minister-
was met with a blank refusal. It was pointed out
to him m the first place that Howe, the Protection-'
ist candidate, was an Orangeman of good standing
among the brethren, and {also that the Orangemen,
j /? ot «m? end t 0 ba forever ridden by Parkea
and Go. There must be some open questions in the.
Orange lodge, and the question of Freetrade or
Irotection, about which the lodges were equally
divided in opinion, is one of them. ”
The secret history of the Queensland dead-
lock amounts to this. Musgrave is a dreadfully,
average, moral, mediocre person, and the only,
people in Brisbane he has taken up with in earnest,
are a little clique of Gospellers. This little clique
includes all the log-rolling parsons and ex-parsons,
and thus Musgrave has had his mind thoroughly,
poisoned against M‘llwraith, and from the first
their relations have been rather ceremonious.
Ihe women of the respective camps have taken
up the matter, and Lady Musgrave has had to,
homes” to empty chairs or ta
Liberal riff-raff All this has ended in a
row. Even before the deadlock, rumours were
rife that Governor Musgrave was to be recalled.
His governorship has been a complete failure,
somaily, and every other way. He is a nonentity
of the first order, but even his most intimate
friends did not suspect him of being stupid
enough to work up a quarrel, with the Premier and
the country.
Now, don t all speak afe once. Advfc. from
Sydney Daily Telegraph
A SSISTANT EXECUTlONER.—Applications are In,
. , Vlted for the position of Assistant Executioner,
Apply, the Sheriff, Supreme Court.
The assistant executionership is one of the
snuggest little billets in the N.S.W. Civil Service
It carries a regular “screw” of £l2O per annum!
and there is little to do but to grease ropes and
wait on the principal hangman, who gets, work or
no work, an annual “ screw ”of £l5O. The last
assistant-executioner was a gentleman named
Snape (we don’t like people whose names com-
mence with “Sn ”). He was formerly dog-catcher
to the police, but, having grown tired of the
catching of dogs, preferred to catch human beings
by the snape of the neck. Snape’s predecessor
was a dignitary who was chiefly remarkable fo”
his cobbler’s wax-like beard and his fondness foi-
cigars, with which, being unaware of his identity,
the present writer plentifully supplied him during
a memorable coach-ride in the country, By-the
way, it is the assistant-hangman who, when a con
vict is executed, pulls the bolt. The fellow wha
got the appointment on probation the other day
however, wouldn’t pull the bolt and so has fallen
out of the N S.W. Civil Service with a dull
sickening thud. This is the best use the dull''
sickening thud has ever been put to. There is*
therefore, a vacancy in the assistant-directorshin
of this great N.S W, Freetrade industry-and
here we pause to ask if a cheaper gallows couldn’t
have been imported from home, and if Hudson
Bros, didn t get the job as a sop to the “ creature ’»
Protection ? This point wants looking into-


Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.—“ Miss Esmeralda” p. 18.
Her Majesty’s. —“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ”.... „
Alhambra.— Minstrelsy
Academy of Music. — Federal Minstrels
Criterion. —“Arabian Nights ”,
The “Arabian Nights,” at Sydney Cri-
terion, hardly lives up to its name, inasmuch as
there isn’t any Arabic in it, and the action takes
place entirely by day, and even the days aren’t
Arabian in any particular sense, but barring these
two or three circumstances there is no visible
reason why it shouldn’t be called the “ Arabian
Nights.” It shows in a systematic way how a
number of cranks invaded the premises of
a mild and neatly-dressed young man, and
how he couldn’t get rid of them owing to
having passed himself off as Haroun A 1 Raschid
to an india rubber girl the night before, and
things are further aggravated and confused by the
fact that he had struck a paralytic attitude in a
fog and stated that he was the Father of his
People. The miserable failure of this boast was
fully developed next day, when he was called upon
to be a father to one charming daughter of the
nation, and instead of handing her over to be ten-
derly looked after by the harem, he was forced to
rush her into an hotel to keep her out of sight of
his mother-in-law. And just here we move the
adjournment of the House to state that there is
a deal too much mother-in-law in modern
comedy. The “Arabian Nights ”is built entirely
on the slender foundation above-mentioned and
the mother-in-law, and we are going to weed this
ancestral female-by-marriage out of the Australian
drama or perish amid her ruins. The man who
can’t write comedy without a mother-in-law is
only fit to be hired by the day to shake a club at
a sick hen on behalf of an estate which has gone
into liquidation, and the man who can write
comedy without a mother-in-law, and yet insists
on wantonly inserting that massive human an-
tiquity every time, should be imprisoned for
150,000 years without the option of a fine,
and hanged several times. The mother in-
law, in the present instance, is the least
interesting feature in an otherwise interesting
comedy, but the author evidently couldn’t work
up the requisite amount of confusion except
through the agency of a Gorgon whose abilities
for making trouble arise solely from a deep-rooted
conviction that everybody is a liar who stays out
late at night, and comes home drunk, and crawls
in through the window remarking, with his hat
jammed over his eyes, that he has to be up rarly
in the morning owiDg to being the last rote of
summer. Miss Romer wastes a lot of valuable
talent on this female character, but the feminine
interest centres in Miss Maggie Knight as a circus
person who smokes and drinks, and is supposed to
be constructed out of the bounceable gum which
is imported from the East. Miss Knight’s render-
ing of the circus Bohemian is as nearly perfect as
anything mortal can be expected to be, and
Mr. E. W. Royce, who elopes in a large
check suit and takes her to be his bride, is
the most screamingly amusing individual whoever
played on the Criterion stage. Mr. Owen Harris
makes something out of a plain, sad part as an
artist, and Miss Mary Field is a saucy Yankee
maid whose American accent gives out when it is
most wanted. The heavy work of the piece is
piled entirely upon the enduring St. Maur, who
has hardly a minute’s rest from first to last, but
his gaiety never flags throughout; and a final
word must be reserved for Mies Florence Seymour,
a young lady with a cold, who promised two years
ago to develope into a clever actress, and has since
petrified and assumed a stalactite formation which
makes us dream of her after a supper of four
pounds of sausages, and awake with a scream
under the impression that she is putting a large
post-office on our chest.
#* # #
“M iss Esmeralda ” has taken the place of
“ Monte Christo ” at Sydney Royal, but life is not
much brighter for the change. Esmeralda,’’like
its predecessor, is a blaze of lamps and gas, aad
gaily- painted clothes, jewih, scenery, swords,
armour, drink, cathedrals, public-houses, gipsies,
rivers, bridges, dancing feet, flying hair, priests,
dwarfs, flashing eyes, and valuable information
which might be useful if a man could remember it
and act upon it when he is being chased by a large
bear or an emu; but still it is woeiully uneven,
and the laughter which shakes the audience into
dishevelled fragments in the first act dies away
afterwards, and is supe rteded towards the end by
an unholy calm. The final scenes make us retolve
that we will for the future take our Esmeralda
plain as Hugo wrote her, and cease to mar the
heavenly beauty of the character with ccmmon
earthly frills. '1 he Esmeralda who was harige don
the gallows of long ago is worth ten of the Gipsy
lady in the last scene of the buileeque, where she
struggles to bear up against adverse circumstances
in the way of dial.gue boiledto rags, and bye -
play that is played out. Tcere is so much stupen-
dous mirth crowded into the early part of the
show that there is hardly any left to go round at
the finish. The priest without stockings or boots
dances his most frenzied dances in the opening
scene and runs imminent risk of foundering on
both feet; the hunchback is more knock kneed
and doubled-up and is in more danger cf breaking
in two than he is afterwards, and his feet seem
larger and are spread out farther and more
people fall over them; the army is drunker
and more inclined to commit comic assault
with violence; and the corporal is more in-
coherent and has a worse hiccup and suners
from a deeper desire to take off bis knightly
armour with a sardine-opener, and pretty Marion
Hood, as Esmeralda, seems to possess more hair
than she has as the evening gets old and tired ;
and things in general look more like what they
are trying to be and less like what they don t v. ant
to be but still know that they are being in spite
of their most determined efforts not to be them.
In short, the first act holds up by itself, being
stronger than two elephants and a middle-sized
whale, and the second is held up chiefly by the
combined and persistent efforts of Nellie .barren,
Marion Hood, Detty Bind, Charles Danby, bred.
Deslie, and the other Fred, whose back name is
Storey. The three dreams of human bliss first
mentioned and the three other things form the
essential portion of the cast, and their ceaseless flow
of mirth, and other traits of character which are
crowded out of this week’s issue by a rush of im-
portant matter at the last moment, do more for
‘■ Esmeralda ” than ten miles of plot, and eighteen
quarts of printed dialogue. A further supply of
balm in Gilead has been laid on in the person of
Miss Sylvia Grey who is happily sufficiently
recovered to again shed the light of hir smile upon
the Australian'public, and after close inspection
we ascertain that she is all our fancy painted her.
Among the crowd we have mentioned it would be
cruel to draw distinctions, and if Ered. Storey does
get ahead for a moment it is solely because he has
a tail with a whistle at the end of it by means of
which his owner telephones him when he wants
him. ‘ Miss Esmeralda ”is good enough to keep
things going to the end of the season, and when it
departs it will leave behind it a memory of human
loveliness in short frocks playing a piece which is
one half heaven and the other half fluff.
## * #
The version of “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,”
now being exacerbated at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
is simply wonderful. It is unique amongst those
u nique productions yclept adaptations from works
of fiction. There is nothing like it in the Vatican.
Every character in the novel gets a show, if it is
only to come on, crack a whip, and go off and be
lost to the drama for ever. The “Eights o’ Don-
don ’’had a tank with two men in it. “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin ” has a tank with six men, a boat,
12 blocks of calico ice, 10 fathoms of clothes’-line,
and a pair of “property” riding-boots in it.
Uncle Tom ” combines all the attractions
of the aquarium, the skating-rink, the prize-
ring and the Methodist prayer - meeting.
The play makes great demands upon the consti-
tution of the actors, for only the tow-headed old
negro with the hymn-book seems to pull through ;
somebody wears out in every act, and the wings
at the back of the stage must be choke-full of
corpses by the time the curtain falls never to rise
again till the night after to-morrow. The adapter
seems to have run through the novel, torn out 10
pages here and there, altered all the names,
boiled the whole down for a fortnight, skimmed
off the top, dried it in the sun, put it into a pestle,
ground it up with a bale of cotton and a
ton of burnt-cork, and, finally, after adding
a skating-rink and the old “ Eights o’ Dondon ”
tank, putting the residuals through a coffee-mill
with four yards of cold steel and GO fathoms of
stockwhip. Somehow, in this treatment, St.
Clair and his phenomenal daughter, Era, tumbled
out in the first act, and, consequently, never recur
again to die amid psalm-singing and blackamoors,
or to be stabbed in cafes and get apotheosised on
a canvas cloud with Uncle Tom and a cardboard
angel. Miss Ophelia doesn’t crop up at all, nor
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENG. CO, B BRIDGE-ST., SYDNEY
MRS. ARMSTRONG (MADAME MELBA),
THE CELEBRATED AUSTRALIAN PRIMA DONNA.
Shelby, nor “ Massa George,” nor a whole caravan
of dead and departed burnt-cork brethren Degree
waxes fat and wears masher pants in the revised
version, and we feel sorry that he isn’t left out too.
In fact, the piece would gain greatly in strength
if there were no tank, no ice, no blood-hounds,
no skating-rink, no negroes, no Cassy, no Degree,
no hymn-book, no auction-sale, no horse-whip, no
Yankees, no (Quakers, no runaway slaves, no
limelight, no dialogue, no “Uncle Tom” and no
“Cabin.” On the first night the blood-thirsty
hounds that chaw up runaways disguised in burnt-
cork features and striped shirts, had to be dragged
across the stage by a limp super, and the sky fell
down, a cloud at a time, and the cabin jibbed and
refused to speak the lines written for it, and the
trees broke into the dialogue with impertinent
gags, the cotton-fields burst out into rebellion
and flatly refused to “ git ” when their cue came
to walk off, and all the canvas and paint in the
place entered into unholy conspiracy and struck
work to get into the tank. Mrs. Beecher-Stowe
is said to be dying. No wonder ! Somebody has
probably cabled to her about the revised dramatic
version of “Uncle Tom ” at Her Majesty’s.
*# * *
Times are good with the persons from a
foreign strand who warble at Sydney Opera
House ; the music is good ; the singing is goodest
of all; and the only things that aren’t good are
the jokes. Even Fred. Hiscoeks looks good,
and any impecunious friend who wants to borrow
a £5 note or to get a subscription for the Society
for the Suppression of Foreign-trade Prevaricators
should find the present a favourable opportunity
to strike him. At the Alhambra the loud timbrel
is struck as usual, likewise the tuneful lyre,
and business is loud and uproarious. A damp,
moist trade of considerable proportions is also
doing at the various Aquariums, and the rain,
which was so violently prayed for, is in full blast.
## # *
Sydney Criterion will be filled with new
glones on the 22nd, when Mr. George Deitch opens
in anew romantic play, the name of which is at pre-
sent kept dark, but which is relied upon as a
certain success. Mr. Leitch himself takes the
leading part, and a company of great horse-power
will back him up whether he is right or wrong, and
perfectly regardless of consequences. Mr. Spong
is also expending several pounds of paint on new
and elaborate scenery from which great results are
expected when it gets dry.
*# * #
“Erminie” has taken the place of “ The
Mikado ” at the Adelaide Royal, and it has hit
the public taste. This opera, or burlesque as it
should be styled, affords Billy Elton ample oppor-
tunities to display his low comedy powers, and to
keep on repeating ‘' ’Tis my first offence.”
Howard Vernon ably assists in the fun, and these
are really the only two parts in the piece. Nellie
Stewart, however, makes a charming Erminie,
and Aggie Kelton. as her maid, is sprightly and
pleasing. Kate Potter makes a dashing young
officer, and Alice Barnett wears huge crinolines.
Leumane, Knight Aston, Benham, and others
have little to do.
** * *
Isaac Selby is lecturing in Northern
Queensland on “Jonah, the Ancient Mariner,”
and “The Three Salamanders—Shadrach, Mes-
hach, and Abednego.”
## # *
A Melbourne company proposes to supply
a real ice-floor skating-rink.
## * #
A huge matinee benefit will be tendered
by the Sydney “ perfesh ” in general to Mr. E. W.
Royce next Wednesday. The event will go off at
the Criterion, and, along with many others, the
angels and seraphim of the Gaiety Burlesque
Company will lend the joy of their presence and
assistance. The proceedings will be a farewell to
the festive Blueskin—and Providence strained its
brain so much in making him that it is doubtful if
there will ever be another—so that all his friends
should roll up.
*# * *
An exhaustive ciiticism of “Ruth,”
studded with musical phrases in choice Italian, is
being gradually built up, meantime it is pleasing
to mention that the first Australian performance
of Mr. Cowen’s oratorio went off with a loud
report. Exhibition concerts are generally pro-
gressing as usual.
## * *
The Spanish Students made a painful first
appearance at the Melbourne Opera House last
Saturday night before an audience which came to
applaud, and remained to scoff. With every
desire to drop gently upon a party of strangers
in a straDge land, it is impossible for this journal
to accept the Students as other than a bad joke,
which will not bear repetition for any considerable
period. The show possesses one solitary element
of success in the shape of an unutterable female
with an abbreviated waist, and 42 i nches of un draped
leg who gambols around like an emu in a doll’s
frock. Theeffectof thisapparitionis heightened by
its conjunction with a diminutive, bilious-looking
vision, which also gambols like a stork pushed
through a penwiper. At their first go off these two
lady students were hailed as the fitters of a long-felt
want, but for their second effort they put on another
inch of skirts and fell in popular estimation ac-
cordingly. And here The Bulletin rises to pro-
test against sassiety trying to blush at this portion
of the spectacle. The Spanish Dancers might be
considered immodest if they were not too pre-
posterously funny to call for serious criticism.
Another member of the fair sex assisted to the ex-
tent of piping out three songs in a minor key, and
repeating the offence in answer to sarcastic en-
cores, but the real burden of this imported agony
rests upon 15 mandolin players who twang never-
ending melodies with singular precision. There
is no cause for complaint against these practised
performers, except that they perform too much,
and that their combined labours produce a result
which can be arrived at by one banjo and a fiddle.
Sufficient, however. We once saw some Spanish
Students in London, and thought them fairly
clever. These are not the same people—or, if
they be, then they have altered for the worse, or
we were unsober in the good old times, and we
now desire to solemnly recant on the subject.
## # #
“ Mr. Barnes of New York ”is doing
better than many a better play at the Royal.
Much of the talk has been cut out, and Signor
Majeroni—whose stage-manner is more quietly
natural than ever—meets his doom at a reasonable
hour. At the Princess’s, too, there is a steady
demand for “Much Ado about Nothing,” wherein
the Bard’s namesake tramples down traditions
and breaks up ideals of long standing. Neverthe-
less, Holloway is something of an uncouth
humourist, and if he were rigged out with a new
voice and a fresh accent he would make a first-
class Benedick when he treated the character dif-
ferently. Next Saturday Essie plays Galatea for
the first time in Melbourne, and the well-beloved
Elton comes up smiling once again, as Chrysos.
*# # *
The Federate boomed all last week at the
Alexandra, and a financially-bloated management
is investing an unheard-of sum in “50 handsome
ladies ” for a new first part. Keenan’s little mouth
must be watering at the thought of so much beauty
gathered around him all in a lump. “Magistrate”
is about finishing a prosperous month at the Bijou,
where “On Change” is to be the change on
Saturday (15th). Also St. George’s Hall becomes
the scene of a new farcical comedy on that date,
Harry Rickards taking away his particular flock
to fresh pastures, whue John Gourlay joins the
Coghill Bros.
** # #
That cold and frosty procession to Mel-
bourne Exhibition on August Ist killed the young
woman who was understood to be representing
Britannia. She rode on a lorry surrounded by
Ancient Druids—naked were her arms and
shoulders, and in her hand a large fork. The way
was long and wet and cold; that cruel fork she
had to hold; half frozen up she left the lorry, and
in that state she went to Glory. Poor Britannia
was a well-known aDd respected member of the
“ bar,” and we consider that the Ancient Druids
withered her young life most unnecessarily.
** * *
The Switchback railway is knocking out
high-class music at the Exhibition. A popular
concert, on Saturday night week, was very poorly
attended, although 14,000 people were assembled
at the Switchback and other parts of the building.
## # #
R. C. Greenwood, father of the clever
Greenwood children, has been appointed “caller”
to the Sydney Stock Exchange. Miss Maribel
Greenwood has been engaged by Mr. George
Rignold to take a leading part in a new produc-
tion.
## # #
When Adelaide Neilson was aged 10 she
was ignominiously sacked by her first employer, a
factory owner near Leeds (Eng.), who had ascer-
tained by experiment that she wasn’t worth 3s. fid.
a week in the weaving business. If he hadn’t
sacked her she might have lisen by this time to
10s. a week, and have mariied a light porter.
This incident proves for the thousandth time that
we should be content -in the station to which
Providence has called us, even if it calls us to
work 12 hours a day for 3s. fid. a week.
The name of the chief contributor to a
certain illustrated paper is N.Y. Life. Without
Life, Death.
One hundred Egyptian cigarettes for six
shillings ! Vide Warren and Rown’s advertise-
ment on page 14 of this day’s Bulletin.
Mr. George Walton, artist, of Grosvenor
Chambers, Melbourne, a comparatively new arri-
val from London, is exhibiting a half-length life-
sized portrait of a boy in Highland costume in
the Victorian Court, which is considered by com-
petent critics to be one of the most artistic paint-
ings in the Centennial Exhibition. Mr. Walton
is meeting with well-deserved encouragement and
has numerous commissions on hand, one of which
is a full-length life-size portrait of a little daughter
of the Victorian Sppaker, which, though as yet un-
finished, demands admiration by reason of its wealth
of rich colouring, the naturalness of the flesh-tints
and expression, and its firm and masterly hand-
ling. The artist is a young man, not much over
30, but has been a frequent exhibitor at the Royal
Academy and has made his mark in the art world
of the old country, which he was compelled to
leave under medical advice for a more congenial
climate.
The Hewart affair is another case of “police
evidence.” The constables concerned are unani-
mous in stating that Hewart was not drunk when
arrested. Mr. W. C. Wall, on the contrary,
writes to the S.M. Herald that he happened to
be present when Hewart was licked up, and that
Hewart appeared to be then very much under
the influence of liquor, so much so that the
stupidity of his answers to questions furnished a
subject of amusement for the policemen
present. From this it follows that Mr.
Wall is making a deliberate mis-state-
ment or that the policemen are perverting
the truth; and if the police happen to be pre-
varicating as to Hewartr condition when arrested
what value can be set upon their evidence as to
the facts of the assault ?
“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. The
Metropolitan Stakes run September 25, 1888.
2000 subscribers at 20s. each. First horse, £BOO ;
Second, £250; Third, £150; Starters, £250; Non-
Starters, £250 (divided amongst them); also 100
Cash Prizes of £3 each. Also the Metropolitan
Stakes of 2000 subs, at 10s. First horse, £400:
Second, £2OO ; Third, £100; Starters, £100 ; Non-
Starters, £lOO (divided amongst them); also 50
Cash Prizes of £2 each. The Melbourne Cup.
Run November 6, 1888. 10,000 subscribers at 20s*
each. First horse, £4OOO ; Second, £2000; Third'
£lOOO ; Starters, £7OO ; Non-Starters, £BOO (to be
divided amongst them); 25 Cash Awards of £2O
each ; 25 Cash Awards of £lO each ; 100 Cash
Awards of £7 10s. each. In this event there are
four separate drawings- -Ist, the horse, then each
of the money prizes, which reduces the odds of a
prize to about ten to one. Also, one of the Mel!
bourne Cup, 10,000 subscribers of 10s. each, with
the same number of prizes as in the above event,
of just half the value. Subscribers are particularly
requested to adhere strictly to the address at foot,
and register all letters, and apply early, so that
the fortunate drawers of horses may have time to
hedge. Enclose two stamped addressed envelopes,
for reply and result. Address “ Australia,” care
of Mr. Hugh Dalveen, Victoria Cafe Hotel, near
General Post Office, George-Bt., Sydney, N.S.W.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW THE
UOST rOFULAE LIQUOE
, IN THE
AUSTRALIAN 'COLONIES.
Study vour own Interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It Is made in the colony from the
best oolonial wheat by the newest patented machinery
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low]
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of Gents’ left off clothing.
Dress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to bv QUITTENTON BEOS., 11l
Russell-street, MELBOURNE.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-whiti
Patknt Ror.r.Hß Fr.oxiß. It is the greatest suooese of the
age.
PEPER
And
Solt
ART APPRECIATION.
SQUATTING PERSON (to rising artist, who has made a very praiseworthy attempt to
paint a purely Australian subject): “WHAT PRICE NOW DO YOU GET
FOR THEM KIND?”
RISING ARTIST: “WELL, I SHALL ASK ABOUT 75 GUINEAS FOR THIS,
WHEN FINISHED.”
SQUATTING PERSON: “ SEVEN-TEE-FIVE GUINEAS ! MY WORD! WHY
[?]ANG IT I BOUGHT THE WHOLE ROYAL FAMILY THE OTHER DAY
FOR EIGHTEENPENCE!”
Three hundred millions of letters were de-
livered in the course of last year in London.
It is stated that a patient in a certain
large N.S.W. country hospital, being unable or
unwilling, on leaving, to pay for his keep while in
that charitable institution, had his shirt detained
by the matron until he should settle his account.
A deputation of apparently sober citizens
from Beechworth recently waited on the Victorian
Chief Secretary, and asked that a greater number
of lunatics should be sent to the local asylum.
This unhealthy c-aving for society wants looking
into.
There was considerable excitement re-
cently at the Persian court. The Shah sent for a
Swedish dentist to haul out one of his back teeth,
and as there was a fair chance of His Majesty
breaking loose during the operation and behead-
ing somebody, the upper circles wore a subdued
aspect. It was generally considered that the
dentist also stood a fair show of being boiled, and
the calm and negligent aspect of that unruffled
infidel as he went into the royal presence with a
small pair of tongs in his hand and grabbed the
Shah by the bead made the institutions of the
country totter. Then the horrid howls of a strong
potentate in his agony were heard from the imperial
apartment where the dentist had got the monarch
in chancery and was hauling his face off ; and fol-
lowing the howls ensued dead silence. The court
expected to see the door opened and the dead
body of the dentist fired out, but, instead, the
composed unbeliever peacefully emerged and col-
lected his fee from the Chancellor cf the Buck-
sheesh Department and went home. The fact that
nothing of a bloodthirsty nature transpired has
reduced the Shah’s prestige considerably, and
that esteemed Caliph is falling into disrepute.
THE DRIVEL OF OUR FATHERS.
The Drivel of Our Fathers—-it is borne across
the seas, '
Like Britain’s half-mast flag it braves the battle
and the breeze; ...
Unchanging and eternal, it fills the listening air,
Where’er our fathers trod they left its dismal
spirit there.
The drivel of our fathers —it shall never pass
away,
The gags about an empire blessed by eternal day,
And the bald and dreary chestnut concerning men
of old
(Certain ancient Hebrew prophets long since
gathered to the fold)
Who wrote a burning Scripture that Victoria’s
throne might stand
(As expounded to a native from Asia’s coral
strand,
Whose fathers sold their kingdom for a quantity
of rum
That the Briton’s trade might prosper and the
Christian faith might hum—
And who sent a startled nigger to inquire about
the way
That a pious Christian nation had bounced his
throne away,
And received a joyous answer that the British
crown was moored
On the drivel of our fathers and the glory of the
Board.
But the rum that bought the empire, and the
brass nails, and the tacks,
And the lying, and the slaughter, and the other
cheerful facts
Were left out of the tale the swindled heathen
bore away,
For the drivel of our fathers is mostly built that
way.
And the whole thing never happened —here we
pause to curse and pray—
For there wasn’t any heathen, and besides he stayed
■ away,
But the tale is still narrated by the Fathers of the
Church
How that pagan prince discovered what had left
him in the lurch.)
The drivel of our fathers like a ceaseless river
flows,
And the cable daily tells us how the ancient legend
goes;
And our hearts are filled with triumph and our
souls with Eacred joy
When we hear of how an army (three armed
cripples and a boy)
Met ten thousand raging Arabs in some unex-
pected spot,
And straightway rose in anger and shattered all
the lot;
For where the Bribish soldier is the heathen dies
in stacks,
And the drivel of our fathers wasn’t hampered
much by facts;
And history mostly travels on the things that
never were ;
And the deeds of men who never lived, or else
who weren’t there,
Are revealed in tomes of frenzy by historians who
died
And were burieid and embalmed before the days of
which they lied.
The scenes of ancient battles are moved about a
heap,
For the place where each first happened was
mostly found too steep,
And it proved, on close inspection, that the troops
who struggled there
(If there ever was a struggle) must have hung on
by their hair.
And the noble deeds of ancient days were mostly
done in swamps,
Which suggests that many a hero must have been
exposed to cramps;
But the men who sung their glories didn’t first
survey the ground,
So they never even hinted why these heroes
weren’t drowned.
The drivel of our fathers on many a tombstone
shines
Where the earthly gods of ages are sleeping
’neath the vines—
Men who hollered loud on paper while in strife
they hollered low,
And perished fighting bravely where the ruby
liquors flow.
The drivel of our fathers tells us how they died in
mail
Where the blood-stained flags were streaming on
the shrill November gale,
And as they fell they uttered some language wild
and terse
(Sometimes they spoke in prose and other times
they spoke in verse);
And in these observations they said that they
were there,
And begged their stricken country not to weep and
rend its hair
When their spirits had departed to join the
heav’nly choirs,
And their mem’ries were embalmed 'midst the
drivel of their sires.
The drivel of our fathers hands the dreary legend
down,
Its gods and heroes building out of dolt and ass
and clown;
The facts that never happened and the things
that never were
Are engraved upon the statues of the men who
weren’t there.
The warriors who skedaddled, the kings of rags
and dust,
The saints who liquored for their faith and
perished on the bust,
The philosophers and sages who gibbered in their
caves,
The buccaneers and vikings who were sick upon
the waves;
The legendary poet who sung beside an ancient
sea
(An unshorn, dusty savage who stuttered up a
tree) —
Through the weary tracks of history since man’s
primeval fall,
The drivel of our fathers has been drivelled o’er
them all.
And when heaven and earth are reeling ’midst a
galaxy of wreck
The last of human drivellers will raise his voice on
deck,
And the gabble of his fathers in a,dismal tone
rehearse
To the astounded seraphim who steer the universe.
He'll shove his um-ber-ella into dead Creation’s
chinks
And wake the mammoth from his grave among
the missing links,
Then raise a “ point of order ” to the Shadows of
the Gloom
And pass away, still drivelling, to the darkness of
the tomb.
JAMES EDMOND.
The Brickbat.
(Slung by Titus Salt.)
It has frequently occurred to us that there
was a dreadful want of style and finish about the
Australian criminal. Often, on a sultry summer
evening, when we have sat on our verandah and
lazily dusted the ants out cf our family tree, we
have pondered over this subject and wondered
why there should be so little genuine romance in
“ colonial ” sin ; and on winter nights, when we
had budb up a cheerful fire out of bits of the next
man's f nee, we have meditated about the matter
until we were disturbed by the next man’s awful
profanity as he came out and found his landmark
shifted and his boundary carried away. But,
with all our cogitations, we have never come any
nearer to a solution of the problem. The Austra-
lian criminal remains just where he was. He
never rises above plain, heavy murder, and the
higher flights of his profession, such as fancy
assassination with trimmings, or illuminated mas-
sacre, or Gothic or Corinthian homicide, are miles
beyond his reach. Even such comparatively
simple branches as amusing slaughter, or comic
mutilation accompanied by robbery, are seldom
practised, and, consequently, there are few attrac-
tions in an evil life. Only the other day we re-
ceived a letter from a seemingly intelligent cor-
respondent, who stated that his uncle’s life was
insured for £lOOO, and who offered to go halves if
we would assist in crowding the old man beneath
a tramcar, and tears rose to our eyes as we con-
templated the bald and dreary sameness of the
scheme, the utter want of artistic finish, and
the hopeless indifference to the lights and shades
of high-class Aryan crime which characterised
this young man’s proposition. As far as the
slaughter of the old man is concerned, we have no
actual object ; on to offer; any old man who is
worth £lOOO to his descendants ought to be
slaughtered; but we would endeavour to cast a
glamour of romance over the proceedings which
would render them worth the attention of
posterity. If he were our uncle we would first of
all invest in a piece of laud on some rocky ridge
overlooking the Hawkesbury, and there we would
proceed to erect a mediaeval castle with a battle-
ment and donjon keep and a portcullis, and other
necessary accessories. Then we would remove our
uncle up to this fortress in chains, the journey
being performed in a tumbril —trains are low and
ruinous to romance, and even if we burst our
boiler in paying for it we would have a tumbril.
We don’t know wbat a tumbril is like but we con-
sider it indispensable. We would also hire a man
at a high salary to stand with a spear on the outer
wall and exclaim “What O!” when we ap-
proached with our relative, and when we
got inside we would consign the latter to a
dungeon. We would then throw up additional
fortifications and cast off our allegiance and hang
two or three of the neighbouring serfs in order to
strike terror, and, if possible, we would buy some
expensive forefathers to swear by and take a large
red vow on the topmost tower before breakfast.
We would further lay in a lavish supply of
Malmsey and get up a carouse for the men-at-
arms, and we would open communications with
the office in which our uncle was insured
by means of a page or a demoiselle or
a wandering minstrel. Having thus paved the
way for future operations we would hire Bill
Holloway and his talented company to be the
ghosts of our ancestors on the walls on dark
nights. Most ancient families had only one ghost,
but we propose to have nine spectres working in
shifts with a spare one in the store-room in case
of emergency. In wet weather the ghosts would
be allowed to carry umbrellas and to wear goloshes,
and they would drag chains behind them and
moan. The chains would, of course, be brought
up in the tumbril. If possible, Essie Jenyns would
be engaged at enormous expense to let down her
back hair and be the remains of the lady whose
husband went away to the Crusades, and she
would stand around with a foot-warmer in the
vicinity of the moated grange. Eighteen foreign
mercenaries would be employed to go round and
be stricken with terror when they met the ghosts,
and it is calculated that with so many spectres on
hand they couldn’t well help meeting them ; and
a bare-footed friar would say mass. These pre-
liminaries being arranged we would wait for a
dark night accompanied by thunder and lightning,
and after walking up and down for some time,
haunted by the recollections of our evil deeds, we
would give orders in a hoarse voice that the
prisoner should be brought out. If we wanted to
sleep very badly we would hire somebody else to
walk up and down for us, and he would represent
that he was we; and a wicked baron from the neigh-
bourhood would keep his eye upon him to see that
he swore occasionally by the bones of his ancestors.
This, of course, would have reference to the an-
cestors we had purchased, and would have the
same effect as if we had sworn by them ourselves.
The wicked baron would be supplied, as a matter
of necessity, with long black moustaches, and he
would wear big boots. All wicked barons had big
boots, and most of them wore them turned down
at the top, but we would not insist on this latter
point so long as our depraved nobleman crossed
himself occasionally and alluded to the saints.
Another wicked baron with one eye would also be
laid on, and if he was able to ride he would arrive
on horseback with a long spear. The party woi id
then draw the teeth of a Jew to make him dis-
close where his treasure was concealed, and after-
wards, when a heavier clap of thunder than usual
bad just shaken the heavens, we would get into
the tumbril along with the prisoner and take
him away. A slight difficulty presents itself here
about a place to remove him to, but possibly a
neighbouring house could be hired to serve as a
ruin, or else he might be taken to a cave. At all
events, three black bloodhounds would be chained
up at the gate to lend style to the departure, and
a faithful follower would put brambles under their
tails to make them howl. The two wicked barons
would be clad in armour, and each would carry a
large axe and mutter old Norman oaths, but any
baron saying “By my halidame!” more than
six times in five minutes would be fined
half-a-crown. The whole force of ghosts would
be laid on, and when the uncle arrived at
the ruin and was hung up by the hair over a fire
to make him sign a large yellow parchment which
would afterwards be snatched at by the remains
of the lady whose husband was lost in the Crusades,
while the older of the two neighbouring barons
would be seized with terror and would promise to
offer a wax-candle at an adjacent shrine, and Bill
Holloway would clank his chains outside, and the
three bloodhounds would get loose, and the Jew
whose teeth were extracted would gum curses,
and . At this point the conspiracy becomes
so complicated that there is a difficulty in carry-
ing it any further, and, considering the cost of
the fortress, and the high salaries demanded by
the ghosts and other followers, and the outlay for
wicked barons, and axes, and armour, and
tumbrils, the chances are that just about this
stage sheer want of money would lead to the col-
lapse of the whole crime on the floor of the castle,
and it would require to be mopped up and put in
the moated grange. The leading performers, on
a rough estimate, wouldn’t get more than 20 years’
penal servitude apiece
* ** •
Deer BulleTin,—l am a member of the
anshent an’ onnerable assoshiashun of hwalers
which I holed to be the reel sors of Australia’s
greatness, an’ the uther day i went into a little
town in Tasmania an’ ran agin a Skochman hoo
was leanin’ up on somethin’ in the publik thuro-
fare an’ smilin. I had herd him smilin’ for several
miles along the rode, an had been under the im-
preshun that somebody was removin’ the town with
an aks, an’ i was gladd to find it wasn’t any worse
which it mite have been, as i have nown things of
that sort leed to kolera which dokters have after-
wards sett down to dekayin’ vejetation, an’ then
gone out for a drink an’ rote out a long Greke ex-
preshion which they sed arose from it or else it
arose from the Greke expreshion or else the hole
thing was kaused by something complikated in
the Hebroo langwidge that the Joos used to say
something in when they were throne to the wild
bee3ts at Roam. I nocked the Skotchman’s
hed age net the waul several times, an’sat on him,
but we aphterwards bekaim rekkonsiled, an’ then
he gave me a tikket for his sho at the Town
Haul. I went to slepe at the pub., but was
awakened punktooally by the pigg climing
over me, an’ hwen I had drivven out that
unclene animal as wasn’t ate by the
Joos probbly bekaws they koodn’t run
fast enouf to catch it as the averaje pigg wood
hav got away to Tire an Cidon befoar any Joo I
ever saw was out of bed owin to the nashun gettin
tired comin upp out cf Ejip and newer havin
been properly rested sinse. I went to the Skoch-
man’s sho an’ he rose with about an aker of shut
fase in his hed an’sed he would giv a watch to
the best singer in the haul hwich lavish opher
browght upp a yung man with larje feet who let
drive about a klowd as was hangin’ lo over Ing-
land an’ i think the klowed must have been
hangin’ very lo for it had skraped all the hare off
the top of his hed. The nekst man’s song liphted
him off his feet moar than wonse an’ he had to
kluch the staje with his toes to keep himself from
goin’ upp in the air as was the kase with Elija,
that profit not havin’ kawt holed of anythin’ in
time to prevent his sudden removal tho’ he
probbly tride to hang on to the grass hwen he felt
himself bein’ shifted cff the surfis of the gloab by
an unseen kaws as he dident know was there, but
the grass gave wa in konsekwens of the idolatrous
tendenses of the people an’ he disapeered.
This vew of things I beleeve has been disputed by
sum festiv bloaters with grate fasility of eggspres-
sion an’ much Ho of sole, an’ a man i wonce new
with strong breth that drove an omnibus an’ used
to raise dogs in his spair time —he had a brother
with one leg, the other having been lost through
gettin’ out of a newspaper offis in haste with the
edditor an’ a kwantity of hot water behind him,
he havin’ gone in in one of his amoosin’ moments
an’ lade a pare of klogs on the edditor’s table an’
asked him if he considdered them sootable for in-
sershun in the paper, hwich in my opinnion is as
danjerus as to hall a musin’ lion by the tale and
ask him how’s his mother with a vew to hearin’
h'm rore. He now ganes a precarious livin’ by
bilin’ his leg for a wager an’ thus takin’ in people
hoo don’t no that his toe is made from the verdant
yookaliptus (I think that wurd is spelt koreckt).—
Yours, Titus Salt.


PERFECT HEALTH !
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hockings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple ltlossoiu at the Crown Perfumery Co. s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition. AH Melbourne
Is on this Soent.
When next yon bake try Pemell’e Snow-whit* Patint
Rollkr Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Personal Items.
T ae Prince of Wales never gets intoxicated.
The “ De Bressi,” it is said, will shortly
marry again.
Edward Jenkins (“Ginx’s baby”) is saidto
be coming to Australia. -
Sir Samuel Wilson has been ordered to
Homburg for his health.
They say that a certain prominent N.S.W.
politician has got married again.
Mr. H. H. Gibbs lost £lOO,OOO in found-
ing and maintaining the St. James’ Gazette.
Mr. J. L. Parsons, the lively editor of the
Central Australian, has just left that paper.
Sir Henry Parkes “ has serious doubts as
to the deterrent effects of capital punishment.”
The present Mayor of Launceston (Tas.),
Colonel Harrap, has filled the position six times.
Fergus Hume, author of “The Mystery tf
a Hansom Cab” was born in Dunedin, New
Zealand.
B. R. Wise’s practice at the New Soutli
Wales Bar has grown considerably since he left the
Parkes’ Government.
There was a time in Graham Berry’s
career when he was not above pushing the fruit-
trade in a hand-barrow.
Rev. D. F. Barry is engaged in writing a
life of the late Archbishop Vaughan, which he
hopes shortly to publish.
J. C. Firth’s foithconii g book on New
Zealand, entitled “ Our Kin Across the Sea,” will
have a preface by Froude.
Sandhurst (Vic.) has a Hebrew resident
of 31 years standing, Mr. Lewis Lewis, who has
just attained his 105 th j ear.
The Brisbane carpenters, at their recent
banquet, scratched out the toast of “The Queen.”
A warm climate favours Democracy.
The Queen drinks Lochnagar Whisky—
medicinally, of course. Lamented John Brown
took the same liquor in the same way.
Tennyson has written Arthur Patchett
Martin that the latter’s sonnet on Queen Eliza-
beth is both “spirited and patriotic.”
The Deadhouse scheme having fallen
thro jgb, Sir Henry is erecting a private mausoleum,
to cost £9OO, on the Blue Mountains
Mr. J. N. Ryan, who was a prominent
member of the Home Rule party in Ireland, has
commenced practice as a solicitor in 1 ->ourke
(N.S.W.)
The will tf Lachlan Mackinnon, one of
the founders of the Argus, has been proved in
Melbourne at £25.000, that being the value of the
Victorian estate.
David Syme, in his Exhibition issue of the
Illustrated Australian News, savs that Sir
Ralph Darling filled the office of Governor of
N.S. Wales for 40years !
The brief held by Mr. Rogers, Q.C , in
the Dibbs v. Sydney D.T. cai e, was markid 300
guineas, and Mr. Pilcher’s brief on the other side
was, no doubt, at least of equal amount. _
Sir William Fux, the N.Z politician and
teetotal advocate, is a staunch believer in Ignatius
Donnelly’s “ Great Cryptogram.’ Tms is another
instance of the diteful iffect upon cold-water
drinking.
Kerry, the New Guinta explorer, is now
en route for England, in connection with a big
New Guinea Land Company. Thos Kusse 1,
C.M.G., well-known in New Zealand is one of the
promoters.
Carl Lumholtz has written about his travels
in the wilds of Australia. The book will be
published by John Murray and will have special
reference to the tribes in the north-east portion of
the continent.
Sir William Clarke is a dummy director of
the Colonial Bank of Australia, and his annual
fee for doing nothing in particular has just been
raised from £750 to £lOOO. Money makes money
in all sorts of ways,
In Sydney Bankruptcy Court a few days
ago an insolvent debtor after a lengthy keel-
hauling at the hands of his creditors coolly pulled
out a gold chronometer to see how long he had
been under examination !
The Tasmanian Minister of Lands, the
Hon E N. C. Braddon (brother of the authoress
of “ Lady Audley’s Secret,” by the way), is very
likely going to England as Agent-General for the
colony at the end of October.
The proprietor of a Southern paper
“sacked” two editors in succession for alleged
drunkenness inside of three months, and on the
journalists seeking legal remedy verdicts were
given for the defendant in either case.
The perky little Q.C. gave, as his reason
for not leading for Sydney D.T. in the late action
brought by Dibbs, that he was going to England
at once. The action is ended, and Mr. . alomons
is still in the colony and in active practice.
An English paper states that when Sir
Archibald Michie, QC., was Agent-General for
Victoria, at Westminster, he was the wittiest ot
colonial Ambassadors. We shouldn t wonder.
The Agents-General aren’t Douglas Jerrolds.
. Mr. William Tobin, the young Australian
amateur cricketer, whose name will be remem-
bered in connection with the visitto E a gland ot a
former Australian Eleven, is in Europe guttering
from the effects of a sunstroke received in Queens-
land some time ago.
Mayor Harris has “ cut up rough ” on
Sydney City Council clerks who absent them-
selves without leave. Which reminds us that
during J. P. Abbott’s tenure of offioe m the
N.S.W. Department of Mines a clerk had been
absent for some days. When he returned,
Minister Abbott sent for him. Well, Mr. ,
you have been away again for over a wee .
What’s the cause this time? Sunstroke,
assure you, sir—sunstroke, and a very bad
attack.” “Ah ! it’s always sunstroke ; see that
you haven’t another attack or we will dispenge
with your services.” He has not had an attack of
sunstroke since, at least not in office-hours.
It is probable that another sprig of de-
cayed nobility, in the person of Viscount Gor-
manstown, will be foisted on one or other ot the
Australian colonies as Governor. The Viscount,
who is 50 years of age, was in his boyhood days a
lieutenant in the 60th Rifles.
Amongst prominent New Zealanders are a
high legal functionary who was suspended for
committing an indecent assault, a magistrate who
was “ sacked ” for drunkenness on the bench, and
another magistrate who was detected sitting on a
big fat ace in a game at 32-deck poker.
Even Gladstone had a troublesome
mother-in-law. When he was only the son of a
merchant he wooed and won the daughter of Lady
Glynne, who was greatly opposed to the alliance.
It was not until W. E. G. became a brilliant light
in politics and literature that she forgave him.
“How is it,” it has been frequently en-
quired, “ that so many of the shining lights of
N.S.W. Orangeism have at one time or other be-
longed to the leather-trade?” The Bulletin
suggests that it is because Orangeism is opposed to
“ wooden-shoes,” a dogma which is ever dear to
the cobbler.
Parkes’ friend, Eyeglass Bailey, has for-
mulated a scheme for supplying cable news to and
from Australia. He has registered a company in
London with 20,000 shares of £1 each to, as the
prospectus alleges, “carry on the business of
newspaper proprietors and the trade or business
of general printers, pres ’, and advertising agents.”
Hon. James Williamson, M.L.C. of Auck-
land, N.Z , who died the other day, commenced
business in N. Z. as a grog-shanty keeper. Through
successful land speculations he acquired great
wealth, and four or five years ago was reported to
be worth a quarter of a million. Through de-
preciation in value of land and other causes he
died comparatively poor.
In 1860 Premier Parkes, now head of the
N.S.W. Foreign-trade party, used the following
memorable words in the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly. “He would like the staunchest Free-
trader to show him where the manufactures of any
country had arisen without the interference of
Government. There was no such example in the
whole history of the human race.”
A dinner v as given to the Prince of Wales
by eminent men of all professions. The bar, the
church, music, painting, aud literature were all
represented. The subject was discussed of how
much a man could make with his brains, and it
AN EASY ONE.
JACK-IN-THE-(witness)-BOX (in the celebrated cab-case)
MAGISTRATE:" DO YOU KNOW THE NATURE OF AN OATH, SIR JOHN?”
was agreed that £20,000 a year was the maximum,
though a leading painter said he could make
£30,000 if he gave up his vacation.
North Queensland journalism h.s lo*t the
descriptive pm of C arts Jenkins. He labored
all over Australia, but, knowing that he had to
die sometime, he kept bis face steadily to tbe hot
north, and managed to write bis last paragraph
in Croydon. He was at one time proprietor of
the Herberton Miner, but there are few papers
from Ballarat to Port Douglas which did not hear
from him at oue time or other. The Brisbane
Queenslander knew him well.
The profound and lengthy, not to say com-
monplace grovel which appeared in the S. M.
Herald commemorative of the death, in London,
of the well gilded Mr. Thomas Holt, who has just
passed awav, aged 77, mikes one speculate as to
what eulogies the Herald proprietary could pos-
sibly find to pa’s upon the Founder ot Congrega-
tionalism were the latter once more to visit earth.
Such displays of abject toadyism to the possessors
of money-bags are too disgusting for sober con-
templation. Since the death of . Sir Wigram
Allen, the Organ of Capital has not mulcted upon
a prosaic and long suffering community so dis-
gusting a sample of drivel.
Mr. Fisher, the N.Z. Minister of Educa-
tion, was a printer's devil once, next a repOTter,
then a member of the Hansard staff, an M.H.K.,
and finally a Minister. Perhaps it is just because
he was a reporter and a printer’s fiend once that
he doesn’t altogether love the press in the days of
his elevation ; very few pressmen do love the
press—that blessed state of mind is reserved for
newspaper-proprietors. The other day bisher
rang up one of his colleagues by telephone, and the
imbecile department put him on to the office of am
evening paper instead. A brief colloquy ensued.
“Hello!” “Who’s there?” was the response.
“Mr Fisher, the Minister for Education.”
“Oh!” “Hello!” “Yes!” “Is Mr. Richard-
son in?” “This ain’t Richardson; this is the
Evening Post.” “ Damn the Post ! ” “ Damn
Fisher !” Then there was an animated ring off on
each side.
POLTICAL
POINTS
The total indebtedness of the Australian
Governments is about £167,000,000.
Melbourne at present contains one-seventh
of the entire population of Australia.
St. Anthony Mu3grave (to the Goddess of
Justice): “No, my dear, you can’t tempt me.”
Mr Turner is the Freetrade nominee for
Gunnedah, N S.W. Premier Parkes was once a
turner. He is a turner still.
The N.S.W. Freetraders have styled them-
sdves the “Liberal party.” The Protectionists
have run up the National flag.
The Exhibition excursion trains from Ade-
laide are better filled than those from Sydney,
according to Victorian railway returns.
Under the New Army Bill there will be a
million German soldiers under arms on guard
against Russia, and as many against France.
The Duke of Westminster is landlord of
the Imperial Houses of Parliament, for which he
receives an enormous revenue exempt from income-
tax.
Eighty thousand people left Ireland last
year. The population has dwindled from over
8,000,000 to 4.750,000 under the beneficent rule of
Britain.
The Municipal Council of Blackall (Q.)
are increasing the rentals of Chinese residing
within the municipality. A weekly rental of £1
was increased to £lO the other day. That may
not be the best way of getting rid of the agony,
but it looks to be a pretty sure way.
When Premier Parkes was opposing John
Osborne at Argyll, during the Soudan time, he
said after the nomination: “The Bulletin is
the only honest, true paper in Australia.”
The Customs duties collected in Sydney
from January Ist to August 31, 188 i, came to
£1 313 936. For the same period this year they
total £1,243,873 only; showing a decrease of
£70,062.
In the S.M. Heralt>, “R.K.S.” attributes
the N.S W. drought to the Anti-Chinese Demon-
stration. A “Rabid, Kirk Snufflebusterhe
evidently considers that the Mongols are the
Chowsen people.
London Weekly Bulletin says that the
English banks are gorged to repletion, and ready
money is unlendable even at one-half per cent par
annum. Capitalists are at their wits ends to
know where to put their coin.
The Governors of British colonies are now
informed by the Secretary of State that they may
take the responsibility of pardoning a convict, but
they must not presume to enforce a sentence in
opposition to the advice of their Ministers.
The M‘llwraith Government has declined
to relieve mail-contractors of their liabilities for
unpunctual delivery of mails on occasions of
strikes unless a condition that Chinese shall not
be employed on board the vessels be adhered to.
Bradlaugh, rot having enough money
to support the position, is about to resign his seat
in the Commons. Thank Heaven, Sir Samuel
Wilson and Henniker Heaton have enough money
to support their positions—else they might resign
and come back to this country.
It is rumoured that some of Parkes’ old
creditors are going to file his schedule for him,
provided they can overset his last assignment.
Should they succeed, things may possibly look
fishy for the Parkes testimonial, about which there
has been a mysterious but eloquent silence of late
months.
The Croydon (Q.) miners have tersely de-
clared in public meeting that the action of Sir
Anthony Musgrave in refusing to pardon Kitts
when asked to do so by the Executive has “gone
far towards sounding the death-knell of Imperial
nominees to the Governorships of Australian
colonies.”
Thady O'Kane says that the anti-Chinese
League collapsed because the committee changed
the subscription from Is. per annum to Is. per
quarter. Thadeus adds that the people will dump
down their shilling and be done with jt ; but they
won’t pay a shilling quarterly for any league—
they won’t pay it even to go to Heaven.
The unearned increment in land in
“ Magnificent Melbourne. ” Two blocks of three
acres and J;wo-and-a-half acres—not situated in
first-class positions—were sold the other day for
£BO,OOO and £1.00,000, respectively, yielding their
fortunate owners a clear profit of £71,000, and
£95,000, upon the money invested a few years
ago.
“ I attribute John Bull’s success to his
tenacity, his impudence, and the toughness of his
skin. He believes that all other nations exist for
his profit. He thinks that the mission of French-
men is to dig his canals, of Greeks to furnish
cur/ ants for his plum-puddings, of Americans to
send heiresses to redeem his nobiliary titles from
the pawnshop. ” —Max O’ Fell.
The great China Empire has rejected the
treaty providing for the stoppage of Mongolian
emigration to the United States. The British
I mperialists who said that the settlement of the
Australian Chinese question lay solely with “US,”
and that “ WE ” alone could deal with the matter,
and that ooly by means of negotiations with the
Chine.-e Government, will please make a note of
how another State tried to negotiate and was
s fid.
The latest Tory suggestion is that “con-
victs” should be cast forth from the House of
Commons —“convicts ” meaning the Irish members
who serve terms of imprisonment under Acts which
will be repealed with the next change of Govern-
ment. If this little arrangement were brought
off the Irish Question might be further simplified
by giving the Grand Old Man 14 days as a
political misdemeanant, and placing his seat at
the disposal of the Queen.
The Victorian Postmaster-General refuses
to deliver letters mailed to certain Sydney medical
quacks who have Hooded the Cabbage-garden with
circulars and handbills and used the private-box-
number of a highly respectable firm to further
their ends. This is another wriggle of the
“accursed creature, Protection.” Sydney is the
city of quacks, which is only another way _of
saying that it is the head-quarters of Australian
Freetrade.
Premier Parkes says that when his Govern-
ment came into office there were 4000 unemployed
in N.S.W., and now there are none, “ except a
few employed on necessary works.” As a
matter of fact, at least 1500 men are at the present
moment being employed on N.S.W. Government
relief-works alone, and are being paid out of loan-
votes. It is always easy to inaugurate a season of
“ splendid prosperity ” if you can get somebody to
lend you the money to do it with.
In the quarrel between Sir Anthony Mus-
grave and Sir Thomas M‘llwraith it should not be
taken for granted, as some do, that the Governor
is always pig-headed on the side of legal severity.
Less than a year ago Sir Samuel Griffith and the
rest of the Cabinet confirmed the sentence of death
passed upon Muller, who had been found guilty of
rape at Bundaberg, but Sir Anthony, with the
b ief statement that “he did not think a map
should be haDged for rape,” commuted the crimi-
nal’s sentence.
In connection with the Musgrave-M‘ll-
wraith-Kitts-Boots embroglio in Queensland, it is
worthy of note that Governor Musgrave was en-
tangled in a somewhat similar squabble while
Governor of South Australia in 1875. His Minis-
terial advisers recommended that the prerogative
of mercy should be extended to a prisoner under
sentence of death, but Anthony stuck out for the
hangman’s interests to the last. He was beaten
by the Crow-Eaters, however, and the sentence
commuted to imprisonment for life.
Graham Berry first got elected to Parlia-
ment in this way. Charles Hotson Ebden, then
an absentee, was proposed and seconded at the
hustings as member for East Melbourne. No
other candidate being announced, the local publi-
cans, who looked upon an election as a godsend
and were unwilling to tolerate a walk-over, pro-
posed Berry, who had attained notoriety as a
“spouter,” and happened to be amongst the
crowd. Ebden’s party subsequently withdrew
and Berry thus became member for East Mel-
bourne.
It is reported that a certain mining com-
pany are going into litigation to overset an adja-
cent lease. A certain political lawyer is their
legal adviser, and is paid to goad them on in their
wild career. He reports that the adjacent lease is
no gcod, and as he helped to grant it he ought to
know. Therefore in his capacity as a lawyer he
proceeds to squash what he did in his capacity as
a Minister, and he draws a screw in both capa-
cities. If he had another capacity he would pro-
bably draw a screw in it, too. It is a blessed
thing to have several capacities.
It is a pity Mr. Branker was not in the
N.S.W. Cabinet a few months sooner. When the
Circular Quay resumption was under discussion
the member for East Maitland paved the way to
his present position of loyal allegiance by saying
in Parliament: ‘ ‘ £9OOO nas gone and the country
has to suffer. The Premier sent for Mr. Gorman,
not only a 3 a broker in whom he had the strictest
confidence, but as one on whom he could rely as a
personal friend. . . I hope, in the interests of
the country, that these confidential commissions
will not be given to agents in future.”
The first work to be done by the first
N.S.W. Protectionist Ministry which gets into
power some months or years hence will be to ex-
punge all Freetrade literature from the State
school-books. Apropos, the Sydney Foreign-
trade Association has sent a number of books
extolling the doctrine of Cobdenism to all the
Schools of Arts and Mechanics’ Institutes
throughout N.S.W. Thus is error promulgated.
There is no religion so false but it has its Bible,
no creed so fallacious but it has its prophet, and
men have suffered ere now in defence of a lie.
Mr. J. Monaghan Dooley, M. L. A.,
remarked to the Tasmanian House of Assembly the
other evening, during the Absentee Tax discussoin,
that there was a cry going round for annexation
to Victoria, and he was grieved to hear it. ‘‘ If
you join them,” said the hon. member, “ it will be
like the time when union between England and
Ireland was proposed and Dr. Johnson said,
‘ Don’t unite with them, don’t have anything to
do with them ; they will unite with you to rob
you.’ ” And yet there are some people, even in
Hobart, who would take a lot of robbing by
Victorians.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1888.
fir/') cc To T'/e a. *T? c r,
Jf/iey arc- CJe 7oT e/fteefcc. s-/g6f~
/ r'^/7tJ
f r L
„ fit tna* r^r
IJCor ) <‘* tro '
-troy /
sjf?Et/FR y - 'fiererepct*}//: ////ocj fye* 7° offer y**^
' 7j£/s fere. far/y^eS/o . T/xsT y#& To Te
Tfie. T^//7/s/e/- yTTr "
/* fa 7h- fas
"Ma rJca
ctCHt. f° r ra '-
t* 7ct TffiV%rs‘*-
jfjcjci buy- y v '
Jccrp cdearfa spy
CO botjye.f 7u cjurcb)
CirycC *' a -! r } cbou/cC
(orj />?-////</' e /rk.a?7?//?ct7/o /y -/or
'9 teJzr ljjk


P *\ XJ . r % for
Wmr Vote COCLi-ji' *>-<a.7e-r: ? O/Aa,^
. (co-r, you cucenf <o/*% itio.fcr- ? " ,
ft- ■Lhl /ti S nry f»« * >'* <»f °
' (fir
rL r raf<">* * ],|)t * L C L I s P
r a'“>' V r V 0 "’
J/t //e«ry ' far* /if * 4>*
/6T yfo/>y yfu,r~ &€e/T 9 j /y /Soy*.'?
cCccy , aycC you 7o /6^^yt&'Z?
a y To Sbo/7 rfe/r ftrffe. fa.oyer'" _
k yOur prayer 5 /hfof&Tefi — /
Tio
*s»>r **
Prayers for Rain.


Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney.—A private
Medina! and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant,
for the reception and systematic treatment of patients of
both sexes. The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, derive the great advantages of a constant medi-
cal supervision with the oare and attention of a trained
nuHmr staff. For particulars apply to the lady Superin-
tendents.
Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patented Arti
fical Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing cures have been effected. Send for 132’
paged illustrated book containing “ Essay on Deafness,’
illustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
from Dootors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
oured by these Drums, and who reoommend them.—Dr.
NICHOLSON, 86 William Stbbbt, Melbourne.
SWEET BOROMA, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price 3s. 6d.,
6?. and 10s. Post Free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-street East,
MEIBOURNE.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the following
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the most
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever manu-
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex-
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W. H. PALING £ GO-, ltd,
356 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P,O.
Society
Bollingen
[?]
A few mornings back the middle-aged
victim of an indiscriminating drunk fell asleep on
his chair, at one of the Exhibition refreshment-
tables. The pizon had done its work so effectually
that the Shocking Example slumbered on and on,
while a crowd of exhibitors and attendants
gathered round, and aimed refreshment fossils at
him. Somebody succeeded in cutting the sleeper’s
ear with a hard triangular fragment of sixpenny
sandwich—but even that didn’t wake him. There
he sat, his mind at rest, the faint twilight of a smile
playing round the gills o’er which rum had shed a
certain golden glory. So supremely pleasant did
the old boy look in his dreams that an amateur
photographer (a volatile new-chum dressed quite
‘ up to Dix ”) decided to take a cabinet-size photo,
on the very spot. They fixed up the infernal
machine, put a whisky glass and bottle on the table
in front of the subject, arranged a couple of police-
men as a background—and lo ! the amateur pro-
duced a negative that wouldn’t disgrace Tuttle.
Then they awakened the harmless provider of the
sport, but nobody so much as asked him if he had
a parched mouth. Which was mean, because he
seemed a nice man when he wasn’t quite sober,
and his photograph is in great demand among
those casual acquaintances who never knew him
when he was otherwise.
* * *
“Our Beautiful Harbour!” A healthy
man not long ago fell into the water at Cir-
cular Quay, Sydney, and ere he was fished out
swallowed a mouthful or two of the liquid which
by courtesy is called sea-water. He has ever since
been laid up with typhoid fever. It is better to
fall into the Yarra than into “ our Beautiful
Harbour.” If you fall into the. Yarra you are at
once suffocated and your misery ends.
® # •
For the last 18 months or so the Melbourne
City Council have obstructed the thoroughfare in
front of the JTown Hall, which nuisance is all
along of a £15,000 portico entrance voted on the
strength of a wild hope that the Prince of Wales
would be coming 12,000 miles to dine with the
Mayor. This has been about the most incon-
venient grovel ever inflicted on the Queen City of
the South, and she has a good deal to put up
with in that way.
* - * •
A Melbourne commercial traveller has got
a divorce from his wife and £2000 damages from
John Noble Yates, temperance-missionary, the
co-respondent. Sometimes it’s wine and woman,
and sometimes it’s woman and water. It’s always
woman, anyhow.
• * a
In Melbourne Divorce Court last week a
petitioner named Tomkins deposed that his wife
had pawned all his goads, and that he on different
occasions had found upon her as many as 56, 26
and 33 pawn tickets. She pawned her wedding-
ring four times. Let Tomkins beware ! He may
yet, if he has a bit of luck, get a wife who will not
only pawn his goods but sell the tickets. All
happiness is relative, and some men don’t know
when they are well off.
* * *
A correspondent snorts deliriously in the
columns of Melbourne Herald, because her en-
joyment of divine service is frequently “ spoilt by
persons munching biscuits in church.” Whilst
sympathising with the affl icted one, we beg to re-
mind her that the modern sermon is hard to bear,
and it would be selfish to deprive the other ladies,
who go to show their hats and things, of their
crumb of comfort.
* * •
A Sydney attorney the other day came
across a love-letber rerpetrated by his office-boy,
commencing thus “ My dear May, I now take
the trouble to sit down and write you a letter.”
It is presumed that the letter as sent concluded
with a demand for six-and-eightpence.
« * *
The old “ Divorce Court ” headiug under
which s a many spicy details have been published
by the Melbourne Herald, is now changed to
“ Matrimonial jurisdiction.” It is satisfactory to
find, however, that the spicy details get there all
the same.
* * *
Ihere is an International Society for the
Suppression of the State Regulation of Vice. Con-
sidering the ill-regulated state of vice at the pre-
sent day we are inclined to fancy that this society
is a howling success,
* * *
Here is a Biblical incident which somehow
or other slipped out of the Finkelstein lectures.
Our only Original Parents had ju3t reached the
outside of the garden wall when Eve, who, woman-
like, endeavoured to saddle all the blame of the
apple-stealing business on to her husband, snapped
out: ‘"Well, I hope you are satisfied now!"
‘'We ought to be, my dear,” replied Adam,
trying to be as hilarious as possible under the dis-
tressing circumstances, “ We’ve got the whole
earth to ourselves, haven’t we, darling?”
* * *
According to the Protestant Standard,
at a performance recently given at a Church of
England gathering in a Sydney suburb to raise
funds for paying the interest on the church debt,
the gambling game of toss-penny was indulged in.
A coin was staked at each pitch, heads for the
player, tails for the church, and the church tails
always turned up, At first it was proposed to
use dice but this the pastor forbade, yet acquiesced
in tossing a halfpenny.
* * •
A cell in Auckland (N.Z.) gaol is just now
occupied by a very mean prisoner. He bears
some common name—probably Psmijthe— and in
consequence of the commonness of the cognomen
he received a love-letter belonging to another
Psmijthe in which the obher Psmijthe’s girl said
she would never desert him as long as there was a
hair.on his head. Then he wrote back stating
that he was a victim to circumstances and misfor-
tune, and unless the girl sent him £2O he would
be compelled to blow out his brains with the
poker. She sent the monej', but this time the
right Psmijthe got the letter, and the wrong one
received a donation of 18 months.
* * «
The hon. member for South Hobart, a
widower of about sixty summers, is announced as
being about to join the happy army of Benedicts
once more.
* • •
A young stranger from afar recently died
of fever in the Rockhampton (Q.) hospital There
are no startling features about this circumstance
so far, but the hospital authorities had pity on
his relatives and resolved, we are told, to break
the news gently, and as much as possible to soften
the blow to the bereaved family. So they rather
hinted at than fully revealed the awful less to the
friends of the deceased by enclosing a memo in
which the latter were requested to forward at
earliest convenience £0 18s. for burying J\ hn
Smith.
* • e
It; is stated as a positive fact that two
Melbourne solicitors, separately and secretly,
went to the same quiet retreat to spend a happy
day. They met. Their wives also met, and each
wife appeared to have come down with the other
solicitor. There was an awkward paus’, after
which they all paired off with the partners
appointed by the marriage service, and every-
body agreed to forgive and forget. But we don’t
believe this story, all the same. It sounds too
much like a farcical comedy in three acts, with
the bachelor uncle and the comic man-servant left
out. We have heard of a man elopiog with the
sister of another fellow, who was eloping by the
same train with the first man’s aunt—but there
was nothing particular about that circumstance,
except that the train ran off the line. However,
it all opens out a long-sought opportunity for ex-
plaining the exact relationship existing between
Mr. H. ft. Harwood and Miss Essie Jenyns.
Harwood’s wife is half-sister to the husband of
Essie’s step-father’s brother’s wife’s sister.
* * *
The very-nearly-burst-up land-boom in
Melbourne gives the street-boys a new “wheeze.”
They now measure the passing dude with a
critical eye, and say, “ How much a foot for this
allotment ? ”
* * •
Our ancient friend, the man who sells
pawn-tickets per arrangement with the Jew
pawnbroker, has been doing quite a thriving
trade in Melbourne. We thought the old dodge
was played out.
* •
Somebody writes a humorous letter to
Melbourne Herald protesting against the severity
of the Exhibition concerts. He says that beauti-
ful allegro movements delight two rows of dead-
heads, and make the rest of the populace feel bad.
Such a Philistine as this would even steel his
heart against the musical criticisms—partly stolen
from a book of reference and partly composed of
adjectives slung together at random—which are
for ever appearing in certain Melbourne papers.
Now, we never read a half-column description of
a string pizzicato passage which so richly main-
tains the flowing rhythm of the theme ” without
shedding tears. The faithful account of a “ deli-
cious crescendo ” affects us in the same way.
Dear Bulletin,— The New South Wales
Chief Justice, Sir Frederick Darley, com-
plained one day last week that one of his
brother Judges had been “rudely jostled”
thab morning on entering the precincts of the
Supreme Court. On that particular morning there
had appeared an advertisement calling for applicants
for the office of assistant-executioner to the N.S. W.
(Government, and application was to be made to
the Sheriff at the Supreme Court. It is possible
that his Honor was-“rudely jostled” by the appli-
cants for the post of assistant to “ Nosey Bob.” Sir
Frederick has forgobten thab there are private
entrances for the judges of which they should
avail themselves. This reminds me that it
is just possible thab Sir Frederick is carry-
ing bis rule at the S. C. with too high a hand.
His latest ukase is that wo one not having business
in the offices up stairs or in the courts below shall
be permitted to pass the outer door. It is surely
getting .back to Star Chamber days when the
public may nob be admitted to a British Court of
Justice. In London, Dublin or Melbourne where
I presume the judges are as high-toned and as
learned as on the Sydney bench, decently-dressed
persons are permitted to occupy seats in the body
of the court provided they conduct themselves
with due propriety. In Sydney, however, any
gentleman, until the recent promulgation, not a
member of the legal profession or a magistrate
(Heaven help us!) had to hoist himself up to the
shelf misnamed a gallery where the great un-
washed and unemployed were allowed to sleep
away the day always provided they didn’t snore
or otherwise disturb the solemn atmosphere of the
place. The recent proclamation of the Chief has
even shunted the poor deadbeat who must now
fall back upon the overcrowded Public Library
and make some show of reading. Seriously speak-
ing, I think the judges are stepping a
little beyond the line in this matter. In the
times of Sir Alfred Stephen and Sir James Martin
no such fads were introduced and the business was
as well done and the judgments, I fancy, as
sound as in these late enlightened days. While
the Chief Justice is delivering homilies on order
from the bench he might just mildly hint that the
attendants should throw a little more courtesy in-
to their official manners than they do. A few
days ago a gentleman of my acquaintance, well-
dressed and orderly, dropped into Sir F. Darley’s
court and into a vacant seat—one of many—when
a young official in the livery of the sheriff, a
braided frock, a little brief authority,
tapped him rudely on the shoulder and told him
in a voice loud enough to be heard all over ihe
court that “upstairs was the place for such as he' 1 —
not even enquiring whether he belonged to the
law or was a full blown J.P Now even “upstairs”
is shut out to the non-professional man and the
deadbeat. —Lux.
• • •
Husband (in the early morning): “ What
are you going through my pockets for, my dear ? ”
Wife: “A little change, John.” Husband:
“Have you no money of your own ? ” Wife : “Yes,
but it is so much easier to find a man’s pocket,
John, than a woman’s.”
k* * *
A Melbourne “ sassiety ” writer says that
paste ornaments for the hair are to be fashionable.
Thank Heaven for the change ! Too long has the
paste been ornamented with hair.
* * *
A correspondent to a Melbourne paper
writes to ask “if a divorced woman becomes a
miss.” We beg to state that it depends ; if she is
young and pretty, she does not come amiss.
* * *
The obituary poetry in the Age is develop-
ing—into half-column chunks.
* #
The latest wrinkle in manners is this : To
show great politeness, advance one step and bow ;
to show the reverse sentiment, draw back a step
and bow.
* * *
The Melbourne dentists are driving a
roaring business, just now. The wives of the
lucky land-jobbers are going in prodigiously for
new teeth.
* • *
London has 10 clubs for women. How
different to Australia, where every wife keeps a
club!
* * •
Mr. Bruce, M.P., the advocate of the
Bachelor Tax now under consideration in New
Zealand, has been testimonialised by the spinsters
of Rangitikei. The dear creatures take a deep
interest in the project, because, in the event of
Mr. Bruce’s Bill becoming law, the young men
must choose either to be taxed with wives or by
Government.
* * *
The Dubbo volunteers, under a staff of
short-hose officers, were drawn up on the platform
of the railway station on the occasion of Governor
Oaricgton’s visit, and when H.E. put his patent-
leathers outside of the carriage the brass band
struck up “ See, the Conquering Hero Comes.” It
doesn’t take a man, who has a handle to his name,
very much trouble to conquer grovellers.
The red-headed girl says that every time
she sees a white horse she always looks for a fool.
#*. ■ •
One touch of rumour makes the whole
world chin. —N.Y. Life.
* «* *
“ Father, what is the quickest way to get
rich ? ” “ Honesty is the slowest way, my son.”—■
Berlin Lustige Blatter.
* * *
From a London daily :
A GENTLEMAN, married, with large family, most
urgently needs a little capital to enable him to
make livelihood, and earnestly asks every reader to
kindly send sixpence. This will make little dif-
ference to donors, but will be an incalculable boon to
donee. Kindly give addresses, as donee anticipates
being able hereafter to refund amounts.
If our own respected progenitor had only put in an
advertisement like this same 25 years ago our
financial position might have been very different
from what it now is. Unfortunately, however, he
was a plain citizen with little originality of mind,
and, consequently, he left nothing behind him but
six shirts with an unstained name inscribed inside
the collar.
The total value of the tobacco imported
into England annually is under £3,000,000, while
the taxation upon this value exceeds £9 000,000.
Taking pipes and pouches, lights, andother'articles,
together with retail profits into the account, it is
esbimat“d that the people of the United Kingdom
spen t £10,000,000 a year upon tobacco, or nearly
£3 a head for every man, after deducting a fifth
for abstainers.
Some bilious critic has been bringing the
proceedings at Lincoln Agricultural College, Can-
terbury (N.Z.), to the test of simple arithmetic.
He finds each student —the report says there are
“about 21”—costs £333 per annum. As each
student pays only £65 a year, the college drops
annually £2OB on every pupil. The same critic
figures down the loss on the farming operations of
the college for 1887 as £3707, and declares that
each of these “ sucking farmers made ducks and
drakes of £l7O during that year in the pursuit of
his avocation.” And yet N.Z. is stated to be
depressed !
Metempsychosls.
[ ‘ • - • He spoke of some girl whose beauty had
been troubling him, Jeanne, part Jewess, part German,
and part Australian—a maiden he had initiated into the
mysteries ard ‘ perfect ceremony of love’s rite.’
“Madeline Brown," part iv., chap i,]
Tell me with what Tyrian lover,
In the days for ever done,
When the lilied doe above her
Heard the Galilean dove,
Your rose-revelry of love
Laughed through dusky Lebanon ?
Who there saw your bright up-springiag
Pace divine that wildered them,
When, your richer Attic singing,
Thrice forgetful of its home,
Mingled with the lust of Rome,
0, daughter of Jerusalem ?
Devil-damned, and yet escaping,
Christ and ages cursed with wrath,
Swooning, murmuring, palpitating,
Bare and beauteous —here between us
Rise up Magdalene, Venus,
Aphrodite, Ashtaroth !
FRANCIS ADAMS.


Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whtte Patent Roller Flour is the
beet io the market
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence Intended
for this oolumn will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bullbtin Office.]
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankbon, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and Bait-water baths in house, olose to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
[?]
846 Maoquarie-street North, Sydney, Sept. 1?, 1888.
My Dbar Moorabinda,—
The Spring Meeting of Rosehill Rice Club, held on the
Bth inst., may be looked upon as an “Achievement”
(with a large A)—for the weather was perfect, the course
neat as a ne w pin, G. S. Rowley (the übiquitous Secre-
tary) flew round in a Frenoh, gray top-hat to attend to
everybody's temporal welfare, and lastly the ladies tea-
room was an accomplished fact. The last-named is a great
success. In it there are 20 little tibles to seat four, there
is a stand of lovely pot-plants in the centre, dowers are
everywhere, and the building is made of lattice through
which the breeze gently plays—an inestimable boon in
summer. A raoe-committee that looks after us so well
deserves our deepest thanks, doesn't it? Now for
a few of the frocks worn. Spriog dresses, owing to the
cool breeze, were in the minority. A gobelin-gray cash-
mere, made with full sleeves and sesthetic draperies, with
which was worn a fancy straw Gainsboro’ hat trimmed
with a spray of blush roses dreamily shrouded in misty-
grey tulle ; a cream liberty-3ilk with smocked vest and
sailor’s hat trimmed with masses of cream ribbon ; a
rose summer-cloth bodice en Zouave, edged with gold and
rose galoon, over full vest of silk en suite ; col'ar, cuffs,
and skirt-trimming of the galoon; high, white bat
smothered in white ribbon ; and a French-gray silk, with
skirt panel and full-vest of Ottoman silk to correspond,
with which was worn a rough, gray straw-bonnet trimmed
with ribbon en suite, and a spray of cloth-of-gold roses
and foliage, constituted the sum total of Spring toilettes.
Nvarly all the men present paid a compliment to the sea-
son by wearing primroses in their coats, and, oh ! apro-
pos of men—one conspicuous individual turned up in a
cream suit with large brown checks, funny little
checked shooting-cap en suite, cream-c iloured kid
gloves, and a huge bouquet of tuber ro3es, forget-me-nots,
mo is, and ferns in his button-hole ! Talk about coming
out without your gun ! Oh ! I had almost forgotten to
tell you about the fat woman who wore a black frock (fat
women adore blaok because it makes them look their
smallest), a big fur cloak, a long, husband-beater um-
brella, and a stuffed pullet, dyed scarlet, in her bonnet.
This imposing lady waddled round to the tea-room, sur-
veyed the moderately-wids entrance critically for a
moment, and then slowly passed in sideways. She had
no wish to take the door-posts with her, poor thing 1
Mrs. Malaprop, of the Point, is credited with the fol-
lowing to a gentleman-friend on the smoke question
“ Oh, dear, no, it’s not the smoke us ladies dejects to on
the railway stations, but it's the expostulations you
gentlemen divulge in.” The same lady also proudly in-
formed her circle that her husband had given her " bonne
bouche ”at the Melbourne Exhibition. Also, at one of
the theatres the other night she loudly commented upon
the extremely large “ ordinance !! ’
1 am requested to state that the last Sydney reunion
of this season will take place at Needs' rooms on the 18th
inst., and will take the form of a fancy-dres3 ball. On
the 19th inst. the Sydney Liedertaefel holds another of
its excellent concerts at the Exhibition Building ; and
on the 15th inst. the Intercolonial bicycle races will be held
at the Cricket Ground.
In connection with the now rapidly- approaching
Women’s Industrial Exhibition, I see that Elliott Bros..
the wholesale chemist?, have offered a prize for the best
made cakes ! How extremely natural that chemists
should wish to encourage amateur cookery, isn’t it !
Tnis is a cruelly-sentimental little anecdote about a
newly-married pair who recently took shipping on the
railway to spend their honeymoon on the mountains’
brow. They had two trunks with them, and on those two
trunks some sportive friends had deep and dark designs
which they carried out at the last moment in the luggage
van of the train that wafted Duckey and his Poppsie to
their saccharine seclusion. All went well uotil the bride
and bridegroom reached their hotel, when there, in the
hall, stood the two miserable portemanteaux, side by side,
with their handles tied up with big bows of crisp white
satin ribbon and orange blossom ! The expressions that
blighted Benedict used when he mastered the situation
were totally unfit for publication.
Ivy is the fashionable hat-trimming for the Spring. As
ivy is the symbol of decay, old society girls are advised to
shun it as they would a p?stilence or a poor relation.
The first night of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin’ at Her
Majesty’s Theatre drew, I am glad to say, a bumper
house. In the vice-regal box a white silk gown, softened
with lace, tan gloves, and a cluster of violets at the waist,
were a revelation one could write verses about. In the
d.c. the prettiest frook was a pale-pink silk, with a spray
of blush-roses and foliage from shoulder to waist worn
by a small, brown woman, Mrs. H. M’Quade, in a d.c.
box, looked charming in pale-primrose silk and rare
laces. Speaking of the boxes, in one of these on the
family circle tier, a very amorous swain and h s com-
plaisant lady-love spooned one another as if they were at
Bondi or somewhere equally secluded, and their maudlin
behaviour was a source of great amusement to onlookers
during the long intervals. .....
Judging by the joyous throng that sardined into toe
Association Ground on the Bth instant to view the Sydney
Grammar Sohool annual sports, it was as well that the com-
mittee did postpone them from last Saturday. Tne day
was “ cool and bright and cheery,” and the dresses were
nearly all decidedly captivating. Two sisters wore
mastic-cloth draped over peacock green plush jupes, and
straw hats en suite ornate with mastic and peacock plumes.
A perfect poem of a gown was a dreamy gray cashmere
with skirt panel ornate with row upon row of silver braid,
vest, collar, and cuffs of silver trimming, gray fancy
straw Gainsboro’ hat, lined with silver lace, and trimmed
with shaded gray ribbon bows. Isn t that nioe ? Another
enviable frook was in a medium shade of rose,
trimmed with the now so general gold-braid—Leghorn
straw bonnet, trimmed with rose ribbon and gold
leaves. Rather an eccentric dress was one of brown
canvas cloth, trimmed round the feet with gold lace-
sleeveless jacket of brown, edged with gold braid, and
worn over a cream jersey—brown toque ornate with ivory
bows. A very odd bonnet was a high coalscuttle with the
towering front filled in with marguerites—stiff green bows
bobbed out at eaoh side, and from the back depended two
long, wide, green ribbon-ends. Also the fat butter-tub
female turned up as usual in shiny black, with a high
green bonnet lavishly adorned with yellow roses, ♦
The conversazione of the N.S.W. Royal Society took
place last week at Sydney University, in the presenoe of
all the pundits who could manage to attend. The reports
of the proceedings are various. Pundit No. 1 tells me he
was “carried away by the fervor of the proceedings.”
Pundit No. 2 says, “ I was asleep, or if I wasn’t I ought
to have been, everything was so ponderous, dear Sappho.’>
And “dear Sappho” takes the last man’s word for it,
because in a weak, rash moment she attended a meeting
of the Australasian Association and has never been fairly
awake since.
Apropos of the University. A nouveau riche was once
driving me past that venerable pile when, pointing bis
whip at it, he remarked sententiously : “That is a fine
buildiog and it would take a lot of beating, even if it is
old.” A man like that evidently seeth not the vener-
ableness of ruins.
S M.H. advt.
LOT of mechanical figures, ia good order, for sale.
No reasonable offer refused. Apply Mac-
quarie-street South
“ Maequarie-srteet South” is surely a mis-print. Anyone
in search of a batch of mechanical figures each with its
price, at which it is to be bought or sold, should go to
Macquarie-street north. Ife will find plenty of them
in a large, ugly building on the other side of the street,
won’t he '!
Whilst at Wilcannia, Baron Carington visited a shear-
ing shed, and “ actually, my dear, the charming Governor
sheared a sheep,” showing, it is alleged, great proficieiny
in the art. Well, why shouldn’t he ? For
How could e’en a boss of the shed,
In the ethios of shears deeply read,
Though accustomed to shear all his life, without ceasing,
Give a salaried Gov. any tips about fleecing ?
I hear that, in November, a particularly tpicy divorce
case will occupy the a'tention cf his Honor Judge Win-
deyer. Hubby is defendant tins time, by the-bye, and
there axe four lady co-responden 's.
A Melbourne correspondent, in a shocked tone of letter,
informs me that at the Mayor’s ball held over there re-
cently, a daughter of a Melbourne civic dignitary turned
to her partner, and loudly exolaimed, “ I si, I must ’ave
another wet before the next dance.” Euphonious wasn’t
it ? Had I been her partner I should have taken her out
and held her head under the pum 1
Several Sydney ladies who have visited “Monte
Christo ” object to the burlesque—not because of the
super abundance of tights—but because of that harmless
little cigarette smoked by Miss Dean as Albert! 11
Writing of the beauteous burlesques reminds me of
their marvellously-fittiDg t'ghts. By-theby, I wonder if
any of the crowd who throng to admire those fleshings
know how dreadful they are to wear ? I spoke to a well-
known burlesque actress once on the subject of tights and
she simply said: “Please don't mention them 1 Why I
would gladly take five pounds a week less salary if I
could get out of wearing them ! They are ‘ tights,’ too !
Sometimes tuv people are required to squeeze you into
them, and then they are held up by a broad belt, drawn,
oh 1 ” (this lady war a Murkan) “ tight enough to dissect
you 1 . . My opinion on tigbts is that a girl who wears
them grows prematurely old right under your eyes.” I
quite credited that assertion, and have since thought that
it accounted, in a great measure, for the senility of the
ballet. It is also an excuse.
I went to “ Monte Cristo” last week. Good gracious 1
what a dazzling, swarming, bewildering show it is, isn’t it ?
Yet, after all, not so very novel in its attributes, though
certainly the adoption by the chorus in the last act of
wigs to matrh their gowns-a red satin girl having red
hair, a blue satin girl wearing blue hair, and a white satin
girl having white hair—may be called an innovation. The
night I ventured to see the buries quo angels there was a good
house. The 14 stone female glistenedin a garnet-satin laced
up the front with wide white laces ; a fat, oily, pink face
had this ample individual, and she laughed in a high
cracked minor when she felt glad and happy. A Birall
woman in a bright yellow frook looked glaring enough to
be hung out as a quarantine signal at North Head. Two
starched young ladies set my teeth on edge by wearing
beef-hued red gowns and crimson dolmanettes.
All the other feminine lamb 3 led to the slaughter
at seven-and-six per head appeared to lie in black, and
seemed to have come, not to gaze on the stage, but to
keep a cool eye on their old (or young) man, especially in
the ballet scenes, and I am not so sure that their supervision
was altogether idle for once when Letty Lind was
dancing, I counted no less than forty lor, nettes in the
d.c. alone, gummed to her pretty ankles. Most of the
scrutineers were individuals whose hair was amongst the
had, or might have, been, of course, and oh ! apropos of
this an appealing sight was that of an ancient, dress-
suited old masher as bald as a badger, seated in the very
front row of the stalls ! It’s quite evident that baldness
doesn’t interfere with a man “ knowing his book.” Eh ?
The Art Sooiety of N.S.W. hold their ninth annual ex-
hibition at the Society’s rooms, Union Chambers, Pitt-st.,
on the 17th inst. The opening ceremony is to be per-
formed by H.E. at 3 p.m. sbarp, and I expect a large
muster of the long-haired fraternity will signalise the
proceedings which your own Sappho hopes will be as
successful as possible.
The Petersham Owl Club held another hoot at the local
Town Hall on the 19th inst.
I read in a ’Frisco paper that Fanny Davenport has
been granted a divorce from her husband, Edwin Price,
and will shortly marry her leading man, Melbourne
M‘Dowell. And I hear in Sydney that a danseuse about
whom everybody is talking just now is to marry a man
from the bak-blox who has made money at Broken Hill.
In the “Candidate’’—that screamer now unfortunately
“ off ” at Sydney Criterion—Miss Romer, as Lady Oldacre,
wears a very “ nobby ” tea gown. The trained Princess-
robe is of ruby-plush lined with garnet silk, left open over
a front (the fastenings of which are concealed) of old-gold
satin shrouded in cobwebby black lace.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Freetrade in Litigation.
After a nine days’ struggle, Mr. Dibbs has
triumphed over the Sydney Daily Telegraph,
and has secured a verdict for £lOO, which carries
the costs of the trial. That is to say, the defen-
dant newspaper will have to pay such costs as
the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court may find
allowable; anything over that amount Mr. Diiibs
will have to pay his legal advisers himself. One
thing is very certain —that the costs will be about
forty times the amount of the verdict. Isn’t it
about time a stop was put to this system of
licensed robbery under the Dame of lawyers’
fees ? If a man wants to get justice now-a-days
he must make up his mind that whether he gets it
or not the lawyers will have all the money in the
long run.
The chief cause of the excessive bills of costs
lies in the high rate of fees paid to barristers.
The fees of the attorney are fixed ; one attorney
gets no more than another, no matter though one
may be in five times as large a practice as the
other. A certain scale of payment is fixed for
preparation of documents, and the working up of
the case is remunerated at the discretion of the
Prothonotary ; and no matter whether a client
makes an arrangement with his attorney for extra
remuneration or not the client can always have
the bill taxed and brought down to the normal
standard; but with barristers the case is different.
They are utterly uncontrolled in their charges and
utterly irresponsible. The fees which they demand
and which the clients have to pay are in every
large case now-a-days far higher than the Pro-
thonotary will allow. The losing side only pays
such portion of these fees as the Prothonotary
allows as reasonable, and the winner has to find
the balance himself.
• # *
In the general run of big cases the fees of barris-
ters are so much higher than the allowed rate that
the balance which is disallowed generally swamps
up all that is allowed for the attorney, and leaves
the client to remunerate that gentleman himself.
Why should not the barrister be as much under
the control of the Court and as liable to have his
charges compulsorily reduced as the solicitor?
Supposing that a man is desirous of entering on a
big law-suit, he can go to work with his attorney
and supply that human vulture with funds as he
asks for them, with a perfect confidence that the
attorney can be made to account for the expendi-
ture —aye, and the judicious expenditure of every
shilling, but as soon as the case comes on for hear-
ing the question of what barrister is to be em-
ployed (rops up.
* * *
If the matter is important the services of one of
the best men must be secured ; no man would go
into Court with a weak barrister to do his fighting
if the case is of importance. Then the client makes
the pleasant discovery that the men at the New
South Wales Bar who are really fit to conduct a
big case can be counted on the fingers of one hand.
To one of these he must perforce go, and he finds
that the fee demanded is, say, 50 guineas on the
brief and 30 guineas per diem as “refreshers;”
the client will then inquire whether, if he wins,
the other side will be made to pay these fees, to
which he gets the answer, “Ob, dear no—the
Prothonotary will only allow about 25 guineas a
day refresher. ” So he has to go into action w ith a
certainty that, win or lose, he will have to pay
heavily ; and this not because of any defecb in the
law, because the law contemplates that every suc-
cessful litigant should get paid all his reasonable
costs ; but simply because the barrister he employs
is able to squeeze out of him a much greater sum
than should fairly be paid.
To this the answer of those who support the
present system is that t lie fact of the leading men
being able to extort such fees shows that it is
simply because of their great ability, and that
their fees are only fair remuneration for their
extra skill; and it is exactly to answer this argu-
ment that this article is written. The Bar is a
protected profession; every man cannot, on dis-
covering that he has forensic talent, set up his
lawshop and sell his talents to the highest bidder,.
He must go through the University course and
then a course of legal reading without following
any other occupation, or if he does not go through
the University he must undergo a proportionately
longer course of legal reading, earning nothing all
the while.
• « «
Very few men can afford to do this To destine
a man for the Bar frc m the outset of his career his
parents must be well off and able to give him an
expensive education, and to keep him in idleness for
some years after he is called, while any man who
goes to the Bar late in life knows that it is a case
of crossing the Rubicon—it will take so much of
his time and his money to get admitted into the
magic circle that he must give up hope of ever
making an attempt to succeed at anything else.
Very few men who have attained middle age and
are married can afford to desert their business and
fo through the ling drudgery of preparing for the
iar on the chance of being a success at it and
gathering in their share of the golden harvest.
The consequence is that only a limited number of
men go to the Bar at all, and of these Eome few
dozen succeed more or less while the rest perish;
and the reason is, that to succeed at the Bar re-
quires great special natural gifts—the gift of
eloquence being perhaps the least necessary.
* * *
A successful barrister must be of wonderful
keenness of intellect, of unwearied research, of
excellent memory, of great self control, of good
address, of unrivalled readiness of resource, and,
above all and beyond all, he must have the intuitive
faculty of knowing what other people are thinking
about, and what they intend doing as soon as the
thought or the intention rises in their mind. He
must know by intention what objections to his
arguments are existing in the minds of the judges
before whom he argues, and the juries to whom he
appeals. It is a natural gift, and cannot be learned.
A man may be clever, even brilliant, painstaking
and capable, but without the intuitive quickness
of which we speak he will never make a leading
barrister. A barrister is, like a poet, born, not
made. Any man of decent intellect and common
honesty can be a successful attorney, but not so
with the higher branch of the profession.
* * *
This statement is fully borne out by facts. The
New South Wales Bar consists of about 100 prac-
titioners. Out of this 100, -as out of any 100 men
chosen not from aptitude but from chance, there
are, say, five men who have the gifts necessary for
the highest rank. The ether 95 fall into their
places according to their ability; some make good
men at chamber work, others give good advice and
. so on, some do very well, some fairly well, and
some starve. If the work were divided equally
among them and they worked full time, about 50
men could do all the work. The result of the ex-
clusion of competition is that the “gifted” men
make all the money : they can fix their fees at
what they like. Snappek, Q.C., will not take a
case for less than 50 guineas, because he knows
that if one side does not employ him the other
will, and that the other leaders of the Ear, Nipper,
Q C., and so on, will all stand out for the same
fee. The litigant must get one of the leading men
or go into court with every prospect of defeat. So
the ball rolls on merrily, the leaders make for-
tunes, the juniors starve, and the litigants pay the
piper. # # ,
This is not as it should be Surely if competi-
tion is to be open in any trade at all it should be
so where special aptitude is required so that if
any man find himself naturally gifted for the
work he could go to it with as little restriction as
possible. It should be open to any man to prac-
tice at the Ear on producing a, certificate of good
character and passing a qualifying examination.
These are all the restrictions necessary. Why
should a man have to give up all his means of
livelihood for years in order to be allowed to
practise as a barrister ? How would it work in
other professions ? Take that of journalism, which
is about the moat parallel, for the journalist re-
quires special gifts, and cannot by any amount of
practice succeed more than to a certain extent.
• > •
The journalist must be born with the natural
talents necessary for success, Now, suppose that
journalism were protect' d. Suppose that no one
were allowed to write for newspapers at all, ex-
cept under harassing restrictions, passing univer-
sity examinations, living in idleness for a certain
length of time, and so forth. What sort of
journalism would we get? A certain number, say
a hundred, would devote themselves to the pro-
fession from their youth up. Out of these per-
haps four or five would turn out to have the neces-
sary gifts, and could command what wages they
liked, even as the leading barristers command
what fees they like.
* * *
The successes of authors are won in open com-
petition against the whole world, but the success-
ful barrister is protected. The one profession is
just as high and responsible as the other —if any-
thing the journalist is the more responsible person
as he has to guide public opinion, while the other
man merely expounds authorities and statutes. It
is time that this legal barrier were swept away so
that the fittest men of the community would find
their way to the barrister’s table ; the open com-
petition which would result would soon cut down
these fearful bills of costs which defile the name
of Justice.
The houses of the future will be built
entirely of malleable glass. This will improve the
demand for road metal.
Mr. Hardy, the leading S.A. vigneron,
sends, every fortnight to London, from 20 to 40
hogsheads of his No. 1 claret, sold at 18s. a
dozen.
If brevity is really the soul of wit the
Tasmanian softgoodsman, who, when asked how
many children he had, replied, “ Two-twelfths
assorted ” ought surely to get the prize.
Tnis is how meetings are conducted in
Sydney. The 'other day a fat old gentleman,
while in a certain board-room, said to one of his
brother directors : “Mick, I don’t like to —hie—
ask Mr. Blank (the chairman) about it, but will
you please tell me what meeting this is we are at ?”
They have started a distillery in Bunda-
b:rg (( ).). Local sugar-millers who are teetotallers
declined to take shares in the venture, on the
ground of conscientious f cruples, but have con-
tracted to supply the necessary molasses. This
is hair-splitting, with a vengeance.
Captain Bennett fell down a winze near
Mount Perry (Q ), a few days ago, and got con-
siderably broken. The Captain is well known all
over Australia, and only for his pluck and perse-
verance that copper-mining quarter of Queensland
would now be deserted. He could have been in
Parliament long ago, so popular has he been for
years, but he always preferred giving a whole-
hearted outside support to Sir Thomas MTlwraith.
His present injuries are not likely to prove fatal.
“ When the gentlemen composing the
Chamber of Commerce met the other day to pro-
mote measures looking to the public good, the
(S.F.) Bulletin’s scribbler took counsel with his
proprietor and his own soul. He climbed a tree,
and as the honourable and honoured citizens
passed unsuspecting by, he discharged his soul at
them like the other Yahoos who discovered Mr.
Gulliver. The unlucky citizens now avoid the
spot, while the beast sits on his tree still, chatter-
ing and oozing out brains.” — Choice and subdued
sentiment from the S. F. Newsletter.
Of a certain well-known Australian Knight
an amusing story is told at the Club One night
after dinner, a cabman picked him up and drove
him home. The Knight invited him in and wrote
something on a slip of paper, wh ch he desired him
to take next morning to the Colonial Secretary’s
Office. The writing was to cabby undecipherable,
but he, nevertheless, made his appearance in the
morning at the office and presented the document.
“Did I give you this last night?” “Yes.”
“Well, if i did, I suppose I must keep my word.”
It was a promise to give cabby a Government
billet fer the care bestowed upon the legislator the
preceding nighty and cabby got his billet.
Though “ Sammy ” Jones was not actually
“laid out,” as the cableman at one time asserted,
it was a “very near thing.” “ Sammy ”is loud
in his praises of the treatment meted out to him
during his illness, more especially by the medico
in whose charge he was, whose principal treatment
consisted of a bottle of brandy per day for three
weeks. “Fancy,” playfully remarks Mr. Jones,
“having a bottle of the stuff ‘forced’down my
throat every day.” The week before he took to his
bed, in playing a match against the Gentlemen of
England, he scored 00 and 51 runs, although he
says he could not see the ball. It might be as
well if a few of our batsmen had to play with the
small-pox coming on.
A London East End clothier sent out a
little card recently, in which he appealed to his
customers in the simple language of their child-
hood. Professors and other petrified and extinct
remains whose nails are ruined through long
grubbing among the roots of the dead languages
are invited to contemplate their native tongue in
all its lavish copiousness, and then decide whether,
with such resources as these at command, it is
worth while to grub for foreign roots any more :
“ Saucy-cut clothing, cut slap with fakement seams and
little ait'ul buttons at the bottom to suit all comers for
business or pleasure. Cut very serious to ntit plough-
men, dustmen, sneaks, mushroomfakers, trottermen,
costers, actors, parsons, bruhers, and gentlemen. Peg-
tops, bell-bottoms, tights, or half tights, or droop over
the hoofs. Black or dandy vests made to flash the rag or
dickey, or tight up round the scrag. Lavender in every
shade, built spankey, to suit the Ikey and Flimsey lads of
Notting-hill, Shepherd’s-bush, and the surrounding neigh-
bourhood.”
After considering these various styles carefully,
we have concluded to have our “fakement ” tight
up round the scrag.


A RADICAL REFORM.
OH! I feel so Mondayish!” exclaims the
housemother at her breakfast-table on the
Monday morning. Although the above absurd
adjective is not to be found m the dictionary, yet
every woman well knows its meaning when she
looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling,
toiling, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The
house is thrown out of joint, other weekly duties
are as far as possible set aside, the children kept
out of the way, a cold dinner for the family, and a
warm reception for anyone who intrudes to waste
time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “ washing
day is a thing of the past. Every busy, hard-
pressed mother knows the wretchedness and
gloom which the present washing-day brings down
upon the household. In the early morning all is
prepared for the all-important washerwoman
timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then to
attack the week’s or fortnight’s batch of soiled
linen.. The good-natured husband readily excuses
a hastily-prepared breakfast, for he hopes it may
betoken the speedy ending of the dreadful day.
The children are packed off to school, and then
begins in earnest the strife between the housewife,
anxious to get everything finished in good time’
and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the
greatest impartiality the laundress divides her
attention between the discussion of light refresh-
ments and the very latest gossip, the intervals of
time bein£ filled up with a gentle application
to her special functions.
You will see advertised “Steam Washers,’
whereby the linen is washed in boiling water.
This is altogether unscientific, as any sensible
woman knows, for water which is at or nearly at
i u P°* nt fi x a portion of the dirt in the
clothes, imparting to them a villainous yellow
tinge. This is the experience of all who have used
su ch machines, and the reason is easily explained.
All body linen contains a certain proportion of
albuminous substances, which, although readily
dissolved in cold water, have the property of being
rendered absolutely insoluble by the application
of hot water, thus forming what dyers term a
mordant. This catches and fixes any dirt or
colouring matter present in this “steaming” or
boiling” washer, and the clothes are literally
dyed a bad colour instead of being cleansed.
Then there are the old-fashioned “Rocking
Washers,” which are made of wood or of iron, and
supported upon two standards. These revolving
or “ rocking machines ” are tedious to fill. The
clothes have first to be soaped and rubbed, then
taken singly and packed inside in a certain manner
under pain of failure. Then the heavy “machine”
has to be rocked or swung round by main force.
Only a man or woman with unusual muscular
development should attempt the task. The Beale
Patent Washer can be used by a girl or lad of 15
years.
'.a
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The two above-described “Steaming” and
“Rocking” Washers are those mostly before the
public in this colony at the present time.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows ; and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary,
only the water and clothes being agitated by an
accurately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-
wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no ar-
rangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards
and forwards, and a very small expenditure of
strength suffices to lash the water into a mass of
foaming suds. In the process the clothes are
floated to and fro, up and down; currents and
cross-currents of water are formed which meet and
are forced through and through the fabric, carry-
ing away every particle of dirt and stain. The
linen, being merely suspended in the water, is not
rubbed and scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither
has anything to submit to the hand-wringing pro-
cess which insensibly rips, tears, and wears the
clothes. Thus t the most delicate fabrics cannot
be torn by our system of washing. Every one
has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the
fierce rubbing they get upon washing boards, or
by the hands. With the Beale Patent Washing
Machines this friction is done away with. There-
fore, the clothes will last far longer than by hand-
washing, however careful. When the washing is
done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it may be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom,
and nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Finally, remember that no hand-rubbing and no
boiling are required with the Beale Patent
Washer, however much they may be necessary
with other machines.
Instead of the disturbance of the weekly wash-
ing-day, two or three hours will suffice to do the
double work, and to do it every way better. A
weary labour will be taken off the house-wife, and
a happier home will result. Is not the introduc-
tion of the Beale Patent Washer fairly to be called
a Radical Reform ?
A customer of ours oalls the change, “ Washing
made Fun.”
May be had upon Easy Terms of Payment, no
matter where you live. Full instructions accom-
pany each Machine. We will replace, without
charge, any part broken in transit.
Beale & Company,
482, 484, and 486 George Street,
SYDNEY.
s. FREEMAN ft SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Mo': Mag fovdin, Orient Stun Slit,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD A CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
toils: oils, Persian sherbet,
&a., &a.
STEAM WORKS:
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg to notify the Fabllo that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EQYPTIAN CIGARETTES I
M. MBEAOHRINO A 00., CAIRO.
M. OADEMBNO, CAIRO.
We ate sow offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIBASETTS3, alio FINEST SEAMS of CMS,
to
Oontumtrt Dirwt at Wholesale Pricut
OT Non this Pbioi I
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette-Mu
" BESOSTRI3 ’’ Brand—in Tin Boxes of IM, at
SIX SmUDf«S EACH! —_
By baying from as yoa will mtc at leas)
K per oent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
H BABEACE STEEET, STSIET
(opposite Savings Bank).
SEASON, 1888 and 1889.
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THE
PUBLIC.
J. H. WHITE,
(Member of Tatteraall’a Club, Sydney and Vic-
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
175, PITT BTBEKT, BYDNBT.
J. H. White’a Weekly Circular of Current
Fncea on all forthcoming eventa (aa quoted at the
Sporting Oluba) forwarded Gratia to any part of
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name and
address.
Centennial Hotel,
SCOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
Newcastle.
Wines, Beers, and Spirits a Speciality.
Hot, Cold, and Showeb-Baths on each Flat.
BILLIARDS! BILLIARDS!
THIS Hotel is now opened, and admitted to be
the Best Fitted and Furnished Hotel in the
CJolonjr. It is beautifully situated, being directly
opposite the Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to the
Railway Station, and convenient to all the Public
Buildings. A porter meets all trains and steamers
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
WALTER SIDNEY, Proprietor.
Entertainment.— wanted, two
ACTORS or ANY NOVELTY to join a
first-class Entertainment about to take a four or
sue months’ tour through New Zealand. Address,
Manager, 2 Hillside Terrace, Hoddle Street,
Richmond, Melbourne.
Qualified journalist seeks Engage
ment as editor of Country Newspaper.
Weekly or bi-weekly preferred. Testimonials and
references on application to “Delta,” Bulletin
Office.
MacGregor and Douglas have started
north for New Guinea. Effuse private reports are
in circulation of a genuine gold-field up there. It
would be the making of the island at a jump.
A man named J. Fullerton is supposed to
have committed suicide in Melbourne. He left a note
saying that “his life had been a perfect misery
since he had known Polly.” Alas! We have
been there ourselves.
A discussion is going on in the Otago
(N.Z.) country press as to the distinction between
the imported rabbit-destroying vermin. As the
weasel is stoatally different from its cousin, it
should be weasily differentiated.
Iceland, according to all accounts, is badly
in want of a land-boom. A local farmer, who
wanted to emigrate to Canada, put up his little
property for sale, and the auctioneer couldn’t get
a better bid than three shillings, so the lot was
bought in at threepence more. What a-n Iceland
to live in I
Business Announcement.
EWT 0 N AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
c AND Manufactory!
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS]
Full sums for dining-room.—side-
„ DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
uvERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting hammock chair
Patented.
, Thi 3 chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
ttot can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand.
305.; without Stand, 255.
D
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
RAWINGROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
w
ALNUT FALL
. . FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari.
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
„— — Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
Oious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
D
RAWING ROOM OABI-
NETS.
Early English
Chippendale Designs.
Newton & Lamb.
b I R * LIp P and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
opner Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB
USTRIAN BENT-
FURNITURE.
A VBBT OOMFIIVI
Abbobtmint,
Many quite new designs.
Nhwton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Nbwton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
KOCKING EASY CHaIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
L> EDS TEA DS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring,
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d,;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. od. j
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
WTON AND LAMB.
furniture and pianoforte
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
Show Rooms and Manutaotors i
SPRING * OOONNELL STREETS,
CORRESOPNDENCE
\V. J. 13.” : Governor Caringfion has again
acted a most unworthy part in executing He wart
The man’s oase imperatively demanded further inves!
tigation, but the N.S.W. authorities always seem to hang
a man first, and try him afterwards ‘‘M.”(Bedowrie):
Items unspeakably parochial; your alleged jokes are
heavier than the sacred elephant of Siam “ Miss
Poureyes ”: Your screed is amusing in spots, but it is past
the comprehension of anyone who isn’t furnished with a
diagram of what you are driving at “ Maguire ” (Surry
Hills): The facts concerning your bull will probably
appear at an early date.. ..“T.J.” (Euroa, Vie.): When
the Melbourne Herald says that Burke, the explorer,
perished at Bourke (N.S.W.) it is only about 600 miles out'
which is less than usual for it. Evidently it also imagines
that Bourke was named after the explorer. Well, it
wasn’t, Athens wasn’t named after Moses, either.
“Ben Demmy": Most of the jokes you ascribe to your
local police magistrate are taken from The Bulletin.
This shows great discrimination on the part of the beak.'
"Freetbought” (Molong) : We came on your bitter com-
plaint amongst 1800 other letters which had got into
arrear. Excise is a tax on local industry, and is calcu-
lated to crush it in favour of foreign imports. With
r egard to your charge of inconsistency, we rise to point
out that The Bulletin gave only one version of the old-
time land-steal in question. The other version was a
letter from a descendant of the land-stealer, who wrote
to say The Bulletin was a liar, and yet did not
venture to directly contradict one of our statements....
“ E.L.” : The legal defence of the duellist, in French law,
is, where his opponent’s life is taken, that he did not
mean to kill his man. The intention to kill is held to be
a prime essential of the crime even in duelling’....
Veto ’: It is taken from a Times law report; but we
forget the name of the case. We will have it looked up
fer y0u.... “ J.W.8.” :It may not have been that the jury
considered Dibbs’ character worth only £lOO. On the
contrary, they may have thought that £lOO was the value
of all the damage whioh the D.T. could do his character
by anything which it might say.. ..“E.C.C.” : The fact
that law is a protected profession in Australia often does
deprive a man of the opportunity of securing the beet
forensic talent available. Do you think that had prisoners
fh2 Bele^! n S whomsoever they pleased from
the ranks of those willing to appear and take pay as advo-
cates, that members of the legal profession would always
be chosen ? Don’t you think that Parkes, with Garrett
beside him, or Vogel with Berry to support
him, would be a more effective advocate in
k IVI - ° ra cri “ inal oa se than 99 out of
ICO of the be-wigged members of the profession ? Parkes
,7. an * a any T ay ’ to becom e a good advocate...
w have not yet heard anything about the
f? enthol ln P hth,sls at the Sydney hospitals, but no
d ° ubt tbe r e are many competent medical men attached
to those institutions who, provided your oase were a
Dr ' Beeha ?’s system a trial....
M.A.D. (Bourke): Ws oan’t advise you “how to im-
prove your poetry.".. . “Austral ” : Your musings about
a big man 150 feet up in the air are too plain for publica-
tion. Offer them to a Sunday-school “Jemima”-
Ex ™® delay in answering you. “Sappho Smith" is
mah// Ett ' 41 xi ‘“A 618 ?* ( tb ? standard of the Venus di
Medici), wears No. 1 boots, which are rather too large for
her, and has violet eyes full of dreamy romance. Her
p.?eaf re Jh P L 6m m d ’ *5 er , breath Suggests Araby the
’ f he has 3 , tna and bea utifully regular features,
blush-rose complexion, a voluptuous figure just made for
hugging, Greek outline, a lovely, soft, satin-like skin, and
a wealth of golden hair which ripples down her back
right to her tiny bronze shoes. She is a lyric in flesh and
blood, and her smile is a sculptor’s dream of loveliness
Artists all over the known world have tried to paint her
wYtVrs? falled-S - Smith doesn’t paint. She is acquainted
with 18 languages, and she has forgotten more than any-
body else ever knew. Her voice is a nightingale singing
in a grove, and her principles are so high that you have
Th g °. U & a A e TS pe A ” efc in Bi g h tof them “Aleck’®
The Wreck of the Queensland Liberal” is still under
consideration by the marine reporter and the foundered
paragraph^.. Anti-Mongolian ”: Thanks.. “ A Victim ”:
Why don t you spend money to go to a reputable doctor ?
a M P J t ,®.a Ammon (Beechwortb): The Jewish New Year,
AAA;!’ commenced on Wednesday, sth September....
J .E. (Gunnedab): Our eagle eye was there... “AW’ - -
ih°,n r S ' nffed Cat ’ bein g a g°°d deal better
than it looks To-say more for it would bulge
the truth. Spud’ (Richmond, Vic ): Chestnut I.A.
Zeph . The House that John built ”is too long, and.
hke most long things-giants, for instance, and sermons,
and dead boa-constrictors—it is peacefully inoffensive
• , • J Pe «;hap3it isn’t quite “poetry,” but anyhow it
is far above the average of verse. Try again. One great
essential in poetry is to adhere as closely as possible to
things you don’t know anything about. All great poets
do this.... Hawthorn : There is absolutely nothing, we
believe, to prevent the white man working in the Northern
Territory, or any other part of Australia, and there isn’t
ctny necessity to import Chinamen to labour there, for the
simple reason that a healthy white man, who doesn’t fill
himself up with brandy, can stand a climate in which a
Chow would die. A great part of China is colder than
England, and the Chinkie-man, in many cases, is a very
unfit settler for waun regions. But the Chinese may die
?, f L fa ® 11 ._ m the , T . err i*°! -y without drawing any attention.
Man is a weed in China. A Chinaman isn’t missed,
and when he drops out of the yellow race and another
Chinaman takes his place, the visitor of the Brassey type
imagines that it is the same Mongol all the time, and
writes a large calf-bound volume on the value of the
Asiatic in a tropioal climate “ Aleck ” (Collingwood):
S atbe . r good yarn. Thanks “ Spontaneous Combus-
tion - Sing low. Spontaneous Combustion”! Sing
drivingaSl the harP gently ’ and Btate What you ar ®
“ Sir Thomas, your star will be elevated,
Truth will always gain the day ;
Sir Samuel, your star is now disrated,
Cruelties will never hold the sway.”
That isn’t poetry, “ Spontaneous Combustion.” It is only
doggerel and catalogue “ X X.” : The sweepmaker in
question offers every proof of bona fides, so far as we can
S£^„ H i e H mvitefl * he P™* to his drawings® fee
P/A 13 adc sP r ed conducting whioh are so far unchal-
lenged.. .. S. J. : The term “even-timer ”is applied to a
man who can run 130 yards, the average Sheffield Handi-
cap distance, m 13 seconds. This is quite a different
matter from running 100 yards in lOsec . “AIV” • We
don t see what valid objection there could be to the head
of a Government accepting the salary of one of his nob
leagues if the latter liked to give it to him... “j Wade
; I j he , n ! lne,^ a l a 10 . 4 of capital invested in the coal-
pits. He takes his life in his hand every time he goes
down Oil leaving his humble home/he? as
Northumbrian miner-poet puts it, “with a whistle
shuts the door he may not ope again.” When he
is blown up, as 80 of his number were at Bulli
what does it profit his widow and family? ’
Taree : Merely of local interest “T. O’D.” (LismoreV-
A lot of nothing apparently written by nobody “W. B ”
(Ballarat): Two solid columns wasted merely for the pur-
pose of stating m verse that the man who rode the hind
wheel in the bicycle race put on a spurt and came in
second. “M.” (Broken Hill): Good letter, but doesn’t
seem to be about anything in particular. Why don’t you
w?T te « a r b ,? ut T 80methln g * ba * can be caught hold oi?
, v - W. : Long articles descriptive of the masher won’t
a ****^*>«


PROSPECTUS "
OF THE
Coburg l Campbeltfiold Land Company, Limited.
TO BE REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES STATUTE, 1864,
Capitaf - £/ ,000,000, in 200,000 Shares of £5 Each.
The first issue, 'now offered to the public, tie U 00,000 'Shares, of which 50,000 will be taken, paid up to £3 per Share, by the
Vendors of the properties to be purchased by the Company, in part payment of the purchase-money, leaving 50,000 to be sub-
scribed for by the public in the following manner :
2s. 6d. per 3hare on Application, ss. per Share on Allotment, and 2s. 6d. per
Share Monthly until <£3 per Share is Paid up.
ft is not anticipated that any further Calls will be required, but should any be made they will not exceed 2s. 6d. per Share, or
be at intervals of less than TWO MONTHS.
NO PREFERENTIAL OR PROMOTERS’ SHARES WILL BE ISSUED.
All Shares will be allotted according to priority of application, the earlier applications receiving the fullest allotment.
TEMrOBARV OFFICE OF TUB COMPANY:
Premiei B-u.ild.lrrg\3, 54= Collirrs Street East.
PROVISIONAL OIKIV TORS :
Hon. JOHN NIMMO, M.P., J.P.
Hon. JOHN L. DOW, M.P.
THOMAS HUNT, Esq., M.P.
JOSEPH BOSISTO, Esq., M.P., C.M.G.
JAMES WARNOCK, Esq., J.P. (Warnock BftOs., Maldon).
J. M. HIGHETT, Esq., M.P.
JOHN KERR, Esq., Glenroy.
JOHN ROBERTSON, Esq. (Haigh Bros., Collins Street).
J. E. GOURLAY, Esq , Hawthorn.
F. LINSEY FLINT, Esq., Hawthorn and Melbourne.
JOHN ROSS, Esq., Economic Building Society, Collins Street.
BANKERS i
CITY OF MELBOURNE BANK.
SOLICITORS t
Messrs. STRONGMAN and CRAWFORD.
SURVEYORS :
Messrs. BRUFORD and BRAIM.
BROKERS :
Messrs. WILLDER and GRIFFITHS, Collins Street.
AUSTRALIAN m BRITISH LAND DEPOSIT and AGENCY COMPANY, Salisbury
CITY AGENTS (MELBOURNE):
Messrs. FRASER & CO. (Limited), Auctioneers, &a, Queen Street.
Buildings.
SIBIKIS4N AGENTS:
HAWTHORN ...
EBSENDON & DISTRICT
DONCASTER ...
WILLIAMSTOWN
BRUNSWICK ...
RICHMOND
~ F. L. FLINT.
Messrs. BUZZARD & CO.
Mr, T. E. HOPE.
„ J. MORGAN, Nelson Place.
„ JOHN FERGUSON, Sydney Road.
„ JAMES STEWART, Bridge Road.
SOUTH MELBOURNE
ELSTERNWICK & CAULFIELD
COBURG
FOOTSCRA.Y
CARLTON
ST. KILDA
I
/
Messes. LILLIE & DAVIES.
Mr. T. HOLT.
~ J. M. BARR, Nicholson Street.
Messes. lEVERS & SON.
Mr. GEO. VALE LINTON, High Street:
<OI\TRY AGENTS:
GEELONG
WANGAKATTA .
BEECH WORTH
BALLARAT
BHEPPARTON
RALE ..
Mr. .TAMES hENDY.
„ J. CADDICK
Messrs. A. PORRIT & CO.
„ LAMBERT & WALKER.
„ S. M‘DONALD & WALKER
LITTLE & BORTHWICK.
SECRETARY (pro tern.):
JAMES H. MIRAMS, Esq., 54 Collins Street East, Melbourne.
This Company is being formed for the purpose
of purchasing and re-selling certain properties at
Coburg, Campbellfield and Somerton, near Mel-
bourne, containing 4133 acres (more or less), and
thereby ensuring for the shareholders the oppor-
tunity of participating in the certain advance which
will inevitably be made in the value of these pro-
perties when the railway now being constructed
from Coburg to Somerton is complete, and the
consequent settlement in the neighbourhood is
obtained.
It is impossible to overstate the advantages
which these properties possess for the purpose of
suburban residences. The land is all high table-
land, from nearly every part of which magnificent
views of the City of Melbourne, with the bay and
its surroundings, can be obtained. The facilities
for communication with the city are complete,
no less than six Railway Stations being either in
existence or about to be constructed on or near the
land. The new line to Somerton runs right through
the properties, while the extension of the Coburg"
Tramway, for which a Company has been formed,
will add to the convenience for travel of the whole
of the residents on these estates.
These properties will be purchased at variou®
prices, the average cost of the whole being a frac-
tion over £202 per acre. Bearing in mind the rates}
afcjwhich land has been selling in the locality for
| months past, this price is highly satisfactory to
! t?iie shareholders, and the vendors show their con-
fidence in the investment by their offer to still
1 retain an interest in the estates to the extent of a
quarter of a million sterling.
There is a valuable deposit of clay in one part of
the land, which is now being carted to Brunswick
for use in the potteries, and a very valuable
granite formation in another, which, if developed,
will ensure large profits to the shareholders.
There are three miles or more of frontage to the
Sydney-road, which, as settlement goes on, will
become as valuable for business purposes as are now
the frontages to the same road in the towns of
Coburg and Brunswick.
| {No one who has taken note of the passing events
of the day but must have come to the conclusion
that those persons have been most easily and cer-
tainly enriched who have invested their money in
freehold land in the city and suburbs of Melbourne.
They must further have observed that the largest
and most rapid profits have been made in those
localities through or to which new suburban lines
of railways or tramways have been or are being
constructed.
This investment is especially adapted for the
convenience and advantage* of Persons Residin'}
in the Country, and who are unable, except in
the way which this Company offers, to secure a
share in the large profits which the townspeople
are realising through the great increase in the
value of town and suburban land, which increase
the extended settlement in the country districts
helps to produce.
The Residents in the City, Suburbs, and
Country Towns will find it equally to their ad-
vantage to become shareholders in this Company,
the terms of payment upon the shares having been
purposely so arranged as to bring them within the
reach of every thrifty person in the community.
A deposit in the Savings Bank will earn its care-
ful owner 4 per cent, per annum, while investors
in land, through the medium of Land Companies,
have been making for years past profits ranging
from 20 to 100 per cent. To all persons, therefore,
whose means are not sufficient to enable them to
make an investment in land upon their own indi-
vidual responsibility, this Company offers the
opportunity for making such an investment, to
any extent they choose, in partnership with their
fellow-shareholders.
The railway now being constructed through
these properties will, the department anticipates,
be opened for traffic by the end of this year, when
an immediate and large increase in their value may
certainly be reckoned upon.
It is now universally admitted that land is the
safest and surest investment; but in addition to
all the reasons which support this opinion as
regards land generally, there is one distinctive
reason for holding that opinion in respect to these
properties in particular. It is this : —Everyone is
aware that land on the south of Melbourne has
gone up in value much faster and much higher
than land at corresponding distances north of the
city, almost entirely for the reason that railway
facilities have been lavished on the one district
and denied to the other. This unequal treatment
will not be suffered much longer, and immediately
public opinion in the northern suburbs enforces its
just claim to equal attention, the Direct Line op
Railway to the Flinders-street Station will
be made, with the result that these properties will
be doubled in value thereby. Let it be borne in
mind, too, that this increase in value will be inde-
pendent of and in addition to the certain and
gradual increase which goes on daily through the
growth of the city and its population.
Applications for Shares can be made direct to
the Secretary, James H. Mirams, Esq., at the
Office of the Company, 54 Collins-street East, or to
either of the Brokers or Agents in Town or
Country.


Business Announcements.
To Tobacconists s Storekeepers
Hairdressers.
Craig & Mitken,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR
MERCHANTS AND IMPORTERS,
680 and 682 George-street,
Sydney,
HAVE a Stock replete with almost every
known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and silver-
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,
Cutlery, Perfumery, &c.
Agents for the Celebrated
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
Army and Navy
TOBACCO
FOR
Smoking
AND
Chewing
Is still the most Popular Brand in the Market.
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG! & AITKEN.
FINE AROMATIC VULCAN RUBY, 11s , 145.,
p p.’s, 7s. ; TWIST.
Cut Tobaccos.
ULC AN MIXTURE (American) finely flavored,
best value in the market, |lb. packets.
AMERICAN ROUGH-CUT RUBY and LONG
CUT, in Rb. packets. Finest quality.
Cigars.
EL TORO BREVAS, exquisitely flavored.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, y fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real impo t h C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality !
New South t&ales
supply m,
Saloons fitted out in first-class style at a very
moderate cost. Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inconvenience and delay. Orders, enclosing P.O.
Orders or Cash, promptly attended to.
Pay Particular Attention to the Address :
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
Pr!o<’ Lis*' on Application
William’s Australian Inseotlolde la death to all lnseota.
Simple in application—sure in effeot. This Is the only
genuine Inseot Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all ohemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 267 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
JC
/Vgents
d
o
S
&
s
DELISSAs, PHILLIPS
J Barmck Street.
E.C.ELEY
&
&
o
&
<<
-
*
&
2®
K
O
V
&
V.
&
o
&
V
</
&
&
*
o
&
*
>c
&
&
&
<b
&
r
o
<b
<$
v
S
<K
Y
4
*
O
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY.
FOR SALE.— Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
Sydney Sporting Life says that “ Miss
Letty Lind has the power of reducing dancing to
the poetry of motion, her movements are equisi-
tively graceful.” ‘‘ Equisitively graceful” is good,
as showing what the horse-reporter is capable of
when he lets himself lose on the ballet.
Pearls in the Mouth.— White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel,
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of ohemists.*
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rouslllon, Madeira,
Musoat, Tokay, bo. Unequalled High-olass Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, ohemist, near King.street.*
IFE PRESERVATION:
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Stbeet East, Melboubne.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any Colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL, £600,000.
Reserve Liability, £112,322.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant Advances npon Deeds and
Mercantile Securities.
Fidelity, Mercantile, and Contractors' Guarantees
accepted.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
3 months, 5 per cent.
6„ 6 „
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months 1| per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
tBA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
MO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
I I
FOB ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYINO OF TEAS,
JO!
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Bast Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents (or the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, including Machinery,
imported Leathers, &c.; and of the following Special LinesPEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH.
NUBIAN BLACKING > Tanner?' Toni? and Materials Indent? executed on Favourable Tern'
Business Announcements,
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTBRS to be taken tw«
or three times a day j a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
* eneral Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
hJTtZ Dandelion, more especiaUy upon
the live* and kidneys, Is more reliable for remov-
t B all , impure Beoretions than any other medloinal
plant known.
Buffering from Skin Diseases wIU find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a dav
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD ANDLIYER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row s Dandelion Bitters, and oonsider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
..... _ . M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, Ootober, 80, 1880,
Gentlemen,--1 have great pleasure in reoom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for It without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I oan, therefore, with truthfnlness, advise
all who Buffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
_ _ . O. R. UPJOHN. J.P.
Tamworth, August SI, 1880.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
the undersigned i—
“ I have for many years been obliged to
medicines of different kinds for affections of
liver, Indigestion, pain in the chest, general de
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change In
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
•<» „ “ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney."
DOWS
Iv EMBROCATION,
3
4SOLD
EVERYWHERE
JOSEPHSOFS_ OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD. BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an,
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants,
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now SO'
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous'
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green,
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Olnt
ment for Files, and have found much relief from,
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you fee!
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
oitizen: —
Statutory Declarations.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDT
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“Declared at Sydney, 12th
me,
215 Pitt-street.
August, 1881, before
“)Slgned) Wm. Henderson, J.P,
Then try them, and ask for ROW'S STEAN»
BTTTKTtPI prepared solely by
EDW. ROW and COMPANY.
Dear Bulletin, —Here ia a story about
old “Mac,” the Victorian Supreme Court crier,
of whom an unmistakable caricature recently ap-
peared in your columns. It was at a Bar dinner
given in a Victorian provincial town by the Judge
of the circuit. Ordinarily, members of the legal
fraternity alone are invited to such affairs, but on
the occasion in question, possibly the “ talent ”
had run short, or perhaps the associate entrusted
with the “ invites ” was a greenhorn. Anyhow,
there near the foot of the table sat old Mac. large
as life. Proceedings had not commenced, and some
choice spirit among th 9 “ gentlemen by Act of
Parliament ” sent a slip of paper to poor old M.
by a waiter, which ran : “ His Honor desires you
to say grace.” He had scarcely time to read it
ere he was poked in the rib 3 by a young spark on
either side of him, and up he got like greased
lightning. His Honor looked as if he would take
an apoplectic fib when' the old familiar words
smote his ear : “The evidence you shall give to
the Court in this case shall be the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth —so help,
&c.” The forc9 of habit had been too much for
the veteran court-crier. —H.
SUMMER IS COMING—SO IS THE
MOSQUITO.


AUSTRAL PARK & RECREATION GROUNDS Co.,
LIMITED.
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES’ ACT, 1861.
Capital .... £50,000, in 50,000 Shares of £1 each.
Payable by Deposit, 2s. 6d. per Share on Application, and 2s. 6d. per Share on Allotment, Balance by Calls when
necessary, but no call to be made within one month of the previous call.
— JI OIK " '
C 5:. 20,000 SHARES HAVE ALREADY BEEN APPLIED FOR. na
Provisional Directors :
G. H. BENNETT, Esq. (Ex-Mayor of Rich-
mond).
G. C. CLAUSEN, Esq. (Ex-Mayot of Fitz-
roy).
E. GROSSE, Esq., Torringa.',
R. K. MONTGOMERIE, Esq., New Brewery.
W. MANNING FOSTER, Esq , Melbourne.
L. KONG MENG, Esq., Melbourne.
G. MAYGER, Esq., Melbourne.
C. F. TAYLOR, Esq, BA, Melbourne;
JOHN ROWAN, Esq., J.P., Merchant, Mount
Gambier.
G. M. PICKLES, ESq., Pickles Carriage Manu-
facturing Company.
COLONEL MORG AN, U.S. Consul of America.
JAMES MOORE, Esq., J.P., Contractor,
Melbourne.
W. H. MASTERS, Esq., W. H. Masters ft Co.,
Importers.
; Bankers :
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
.Solicitors :
Mhssrs. TAYLOR & RUSSELL;
Architect:
OEO. R JOHNSON, Esq.
Auditor* i
HOWELL & MUEDELL.
Broker:
W. B. LOVERING!, Nicholson Chambers.
Secretary :
T. N. CURNOW.
Office f NICHOLSON CHAMBERS, SWANSTON STREET.
The land has increased in value £5OOO since it was purchased from Mr; Murphy. The whole of this profit is in favour of the
Shareholders. The list will positively close on the 30th of SEPTEMBER next, when Tenders will be called for the erection of the
various buildings; '
Medical.
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured !
The Greatest Success! mft „ ITTT / All Chronic Disease
of Modern Times. / t are Curable.
j- CONSULT
Ur, H, E, KDEELMUH, Consulting Eclectic
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
60 MILLUM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they_ can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from aDy form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used .by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[copy.]
Glenhope, 19th July, 1886.
To H. E. Kugelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, 1 did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expeotorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that 1 was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
vou could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
whioh I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month 1 was considerably worse expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong' as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours iRANK E. E.
KNIGHT. Witness-J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
All Consultations Free. TE&
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in ihe event of Cure
not being Effected.
i SQTEEEIQH SEIEDI
To all Afflioted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Doloreux, Aching Pains In the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why Buffer those excruciating Pains when on*
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure In a few days 1
The Australian Remedy. No ohange In diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and IQs.
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous teß
tlmonlals from those who have recovered through
Its agency oan be seen. Admitted by the Medloal
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. i. BOSS, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 Gaorao-street, only,
TATTERSALL’S
KOVSTSE CONSSLT&TIOHS
ire open upon all the Principal Racing Bvenbi
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall's," care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney, Per
sons making applications for Tiokebß are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
aIBO enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, onf
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
J M PORTANT NEWS.
“ A remarkable find of gold-bearing quartz has
been made at Yilgarn (W.A.) A large area is
covered on the surface with stone containing gold.
Specimens brought into Perth are of a marvel-
lously rich character, one of which, when broken
revealed gold in great quantities.”—S.M. Herald
Juiy 25th, 1888.) “ Arrangements have been
completed for the construction of the West Aus-
tralian Midland Railway.”—(S.M. Herald,
July 17, 1888.)
Telegrams are appearing daily in the Press re-
cording rich gold discoveries in Western Aus-
tralia.
Now is the time to make a profitable purchase
of land in Perth, the capital of Western Aus-
tralia. It is offered for a mere song, but shortly
will not be obtainable except at much higher
prices, for Western Australia is certainly booked
for a prosperous era, and Perth property will
increase with rapidity even as property has done
in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, &c.
EVELEIGH ESTATE, PERTH,
Elevated, good building land ; well-situated, and
only about half-a-mile from the city, fronting Go-
vernment road. Ten Pounds each lot. Terms—
£l deposit; balance, 10s. monthly. No Interest.
Free deeds absolutely to purchasers of five lots.
Title, Torrens. Pamphlet containing valuable in-
formation and marked plan of the Estate for-
warded to any address on application to THE
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
JOHN BOOKMAN!,
286 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon
Covers (Greased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
Coolers, Whin Buckets all sizes, at lowest prices.
Note the Address.
Oldest established house in the trade.
JOHN BUCKHAM,
286 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
KHIB FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintain* it* Preatige and itand* pre-eminent amqb
the hoat* of other brand* a*
XHR BRBT QUALITY BRIAR FIFH OFFBRRD 10
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The underilgned are prepared to enforee the Law agalnil
all perion* imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT A 00.,
11l OLARHNOB-BTBBBS.
&BD. GBD*
We have Large Shipment* of tbi* BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipment* ooming forward
WHOLBSALB ONLY.
BRUITO IPS
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOTJR
Clan be obtained throughout New South Wale*,
Queensland, and Viotorla.
BYDNEY ... ... ... S 4 Pitt Stems.
BRISBANE... ... ...Edwabd Stbbbt
MELBOURNE Sphnohf Btbhw?
NOTHING LIKE IT!!!
FUN WITH CONCEALED CAMERAS I
The concealed cameras are designed for the use
of those who wish to photograph, without attracting the
attention of anyone, the interesting sights met in everyday
life ; such as picturesque groups, quaint figures and striking
facial expressions, where opportunity to sketch or to set up
an ordinary camera and tripod, arrange the focus, draw
slides and such manipulation are out of question. The
beautiful results obtained with these cameras, and the ease
with which they are secured, make it of great value to
Artists, Detectives and Tourists.
We have Reduced the Price of these instrument®
considerably, and send full particulars of same on applica-
tion and enclosure of stamps.
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, JSFBNEY,, and
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH ST., BRISBANE
Assurance Companies.
THK AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Aot of Parliament, 8T Vic.,
No. 10.)
Registered Capital ... ... m <1,000,000
Paid-up and Subscribed ... <BB,OOO
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esa., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest -
For 3 years .. 7 per cent. I For 1 year _ 6 per cent.
For 6 months i per oent. | For 3 months- 8 per oenf.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Head Oifiob —10, & 12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. O. NEILD, Manager.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
Established 1849.
Head Office —87, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors:
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq , M.P., Chairman
JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Chief Medical Officer:
JAS. 0. COX, M.D.
Actuary:
IMORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary:
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
This Society is the only Australian Life Office
which declares a BONUS EVERY YEAR.
The PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF PROFIT
are—the high rate of interest obtained on the ac-
cumulated funds; the small percentage that the
expenses of management bear to the annual in-
come ; and the" extremely favourable rate of mor-
tality which continues to be experienced.
MEMBERS MAY BORROW on their Policies
to the extent of 90 per cent, of the Surrender
Value.
Policies are not forfeited so long as the Sur-
render Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
BONUSES VEST after Policies have been two
full years in force.
Business Announcements.
K'ng’s Views
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLAN CAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&C.) &Csf
SIS SEOUSE ST., between Hnnter-st, led 5,?,0


Hotels.
t hotel,
CORNER OP
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE. *^|
The Culinary Arrangements are urnler the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
r
wmimn
CDSCROVK
N D
“Or
m
r\\
*1
«n«i
a
Ladies’ Drawing-Looms. Leading |and
Smoking Looms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel) ... ... Proprietress.
Amusements,
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison
Doors open 7 Performance 7.45: Carriages 10.46
IMMENSE - SIJC CESS
of
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
Pbioxb, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Veßtibale from 10 to 6.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Managhb.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
MISS NELLIE FARREN’S LONDON
GAIETY COMPANY in Miss Esmeralda.
Frloes as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway's.
Ashfield recreation grounds
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating; every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thubsday and Satubday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &o.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
B
EVI
OTANYI BOTANY! BOTANY!
SVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 8.30.
Gband Saobhtd and Classical Congest of
Well-known Abtists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the Gonductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH Dibeotob.
Criterion theatre
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1888,
and EVERY EVENING,
will be presented
THE LATEST LONDON SUCCESS,
bv Sydney Grundy, Esq., entitled
THE ARABIAN NIGHTS
THE ARABIAN NIGHTS.
ADMISSION—Ss., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
A LHAMBRA MUSIC HALL,
A_ GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barringtonf
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS
of
OUR BLONDINETTES.
THE JAPS, KOTOMO and MUKEKE,
In an ENTIRELY NEW CHANGE of ACTS.
BONELESS and SINEWLESS.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d.
harry stegga,
PITT-STREET, OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE,
FOB
Gintlemhn’s Outfitting in Evbbt Bbanoh,
viz.:—
Shirts, Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
clothing in the following makes Cashmere.
Lamb’s-wool, Indian Gauze, Merino, Natural
Wool and Professor Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary and
Hygienic Normal Wools (registered make).
Overcoats, Mr cintoshes. Dressing Gowns, Patrol
Coats &o. Umbrellas, Portmanteaus and Travel-
ler Bags, plain and fitted. Travelling Rugs in
Alpine, Mohair, Kaiapoi and Seatskin
Moderate Prices, with Civility and Attention.
Lavatory and Dressing-Room Provided.
M*“~ rTneTiTMAOKAY, at one time canvasser
for The Bulletin, will please communi-
cate with this office immediately to save further
trouble Bulluttn Newspaper Co.
Amusements,
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
COMPANY.
Managing Director —Mr. Alfred Wybnrd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Skating I Skating 1 Skating !
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Congests by the best available Artistes
Eveby Sunday.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is.j
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stopfobd, Sub Manager.
gONDI AQUAR
I U M.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Lustralia. The famous SWITCHBACK
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
OADEMY
Lessee and Proprietor
OF MUSIC.
... F. E. Hiscocks.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, and
EVERT EVENING CNTIU FURTHER NOTICE.
PROFESSOR CANNAKIS
THE GREAT GREEK ILLUSIONIST.
THE WONDER OF THE WORLD.
SYDNEY
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
MORNING SESSIONS
FOR
LADIES AND CHILDREN ONLY.
1000 pairs of the world-renowned Winslow Vine-
yard Skates for Sale. These skates are used
exclusively by all professionals, and are the best
made skate ever manufactured.
’Buses will leave Wynyard-square every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bedford street, Exhibi-
tion gates.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING.
Gr
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
THE HOST FASHIONABLE RINK IN SYDNEY.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band every afternoon
and evening; conductor, Mr. Geo. Yassie.
SESSIONS
MORNING, 10 to 12. Ladies and Children
AFTERNOON, 1 to 5. Free.
EVENING, 7 to 10.
ADMISSION, Is.
In active preparation,
Grand Fancy Dress and Masquerade Carnival.
Watch further announcementts.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
Alhambra music hall,
George Street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Grand Sacred and Classical concert
every
SUNDAY NIGHT at 7.30.,
when will be rendered a choice and select Pro-
gramme, under the conductorship of
Mr. CHAS. AUSTIN.
SEE DAILY PAPERS OF SATURDAY.
“for framing a picture neat
AND WELL.”
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-street (opposite Royal
Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
Y
a
STRTcHN
fit
"Pro
£CT
ON
5T
-1
M
Riry
AJO
<3
P
852 Vo
£S
a
a
4
\
U
!M
s
\
ft
!^=i
*5
*?
*
TqrjlicnTbade Tap - (sclj v ' I kavc tdJcea IQ CJ’rain.S cj* ->
nitte. wHichs. I jkn.cZ to be u very useful
to ate (oak) - so useful."
Secretary Pulsford, (f the N.S.W. Poreign-Trade Association,
writes:—“ The Redfero. election should prove a useful tonic to the
Preetrade party.”
Business Announcements.
THE
PLUM'
Razor.
THE
PLUM "
Razor.
FOR Private Use la Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor, 10s. 6di,
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
Nine Haircuttera always Employed ! TEi
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Gasfitters, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Medieval Metal Workers.
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS.
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washebs, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber goods for all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
LEA & PERRINS'SAUCE
fn nnsequefm of /mirations cf TH& WORCEST4LRSBtiIUB
SaUCB which art "calculated to deceive fhs PubHt, Le&'anS A»»<B
hate' to request that j PutvAascn ' wTthca the
toShm9 O&tM 90 botth of the original WORCEQ TERSBUtE
SAUCE is genuine.
' ISA iPf PBBRffIS' sauce,and sti N'ame on Wnfft sr, LdbeK'Betßo «fl#
end for export by the Proprietors, Worcester t . Crosse • and
Mntl, Condon, g and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the WofUL
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BBIG-HTON OB’ N.B.’W.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rtehenhi
dinner, yon oan enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country
here also you oan have good oompany, good wines—in fact, everything that oan possibly o ne
comfortable oan be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Tabli
dt Hdtt at 1 o’clock dally and Sundays, No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminbtu to her
visitors oomfortable, and her Hotel the best In the colony.
■re. KILMMSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Orvoerra OCEAN BEACH. MANLY.


Hotels
tmmtmmik nuicLb KUUk«»bMi|(i.B,«v.
jSHWRP-GLAas accommodation for eemmorelal
Mntlamen and others. Private sitting rooms,
■***• ira ams JAMBS SIMONS, Proprietor.
jOUMT MORGAN HOTEL, QURRMSLAMD.
; ***• distinguished patronage of Hla Bsc-
Sir A, Musgrave, K.C.M.O. Aooommo-
-s?®B* *B* Bfl vlaitora. Two-storey buildings. From
5? "Goonles a aplendld view can be obtained of
MUbrated mountain of gold, and within a few
®'S*lai' walk of the company’s works. Paaiangar
K Wall ooachea dally from Rockhampton and
*aUway-stations. W. MONCKTON, Pro-
Of kho firm of Monokton and Co.
MOUNT MORGAN.
national Natal,
SB BBDROOMS.
TP*®B Motel has been beautifully dono op, and
bow ready for the reception of vlaitora.
w*** eomfort. Cellar stocked with beat brands
O’ Vorma moderate. Mrs. Harass, Proprlotroia.
«*OUJL»b' HOTJUj,
SSSLBOUBNE.
Railway Tbbminus, Brnran-mni!
iTWraOita patronising the above hotel, which
Jj, ®«lately had an addition of over 188 rooms,
i. 1 ? *hd all modem imnrovements. such as light,
all modem improvements, such aa light,
and well-ventilated bedrooms, large publlo-
‘ Coking-room, hot and oold baths, shower
■ “ Boodle baths passenger elevator, eleotrlo
w., “wcue baths passenger elevator, eieotno
u r* l telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not
Sl r >B*passed in Australia. Visitors can rely
tafl l-l called for early morning trains. Letters
promptly attended to. Prioea very
PBTBR WOODS,
Owner and P»o»*iata»
Medical.
SPEER’S
dispensary is Margaret sireesz
George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 081. D».
W 1 *• * regular Graduated Physlolan, educated at
College, U.S. (lor confirmation see New Zealand
l^***® 1 January 81st, 1886; also New South Wales
April 17th, 1888). The dootor has devoted II
NERVOUS, AND
were in the leading
JO the United States, whioh enables him to treat
git _sP**lnts with excellent results. All applying to
Jr. *®oelve his honest opinion of their complaints.
r®"*nenting; no Meroury used. He ill guarantee
‘*we cure in every case he undert kes, forfeit
17lh * 1888 )- The aoo ’
ftlar ft? ®tady of OHRONIO,
ftStSr PHASES. Pour of these
IBV*"*® Of the United Ktetea. which I
moo it, uu re in every case he unaert xes,
hi reason doing so is this—whe there
ft 9th* ~J sea se, and nothing but an inorgaaio trouble, or,
* t«*tal tl Wolrtl8 > a conglomeration of symptoms produolng
5*V(7!r.J® Ba lt, there is no reason why it cannot be re
? 1 WlaWi.** 16 Proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
J p(jj. it distinctly understood that he does not olalm
•Ulnm 1 Im Possibilities, or to have t miraoulous» power t
- 8 °hly to be a skilled and suooessful physician
—*v ue a amueu huh duhudddiu
,J n,onned in his speciality—CHßONlC ahj»
diseases; of MEN and WOMEN. People
J*t»n & a distance oan, by explaining their troubles In
Jtt l & ® ® ,ea ted at home. The course of treatment will
2ft toJr foterfere with their business. Examine-
ift** u advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
****** & Margaret Street, between George and York
‘SJftoy- Post Offioe Box, No. 920. Offioe hours
**t* li * Q i* *-m. j2to 1 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
* *.«n. only.
R.
RICHARD 8.
Stj*o® largo Bound BOOK on BKLF-OORI
Diseases i price, Including post
a * ln stamps. Consultation costs nothing,
Hu ft* doctor will tell you at onoe whether your
•fttabl* sr not. Addresc—
mOßC-A-RDS,
O BPRING STREET, SYDNEY.,
Announcement*.
h BEHAN’S
B la ck oils
ob
EMBROCATION,:
*RI emu tuff
Hair Grow over” Oldest Scars.
1
:MEDAL.CSYDNBY, 1888?
h o tjTi led “ a* Dressing for FRESH
SORE BACKS,HGIRTH
GREASY
Sand and Quarter CRACK,
J MANGE ; and as an Embrocation
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS
xt *Aßi
CEMENTS.
St. 6d. per
SOM AOKNTji
BdnrZSf
* y/erfie/d, M.P.S^
aSORGI :STKEISTJiWEST,|
Beth street, redfern
U' " _
aU Wholesale Houses, Druggists,
and Storekeepers.
„ MILES.
0 00MMI88I0N AGENT,
® AtnJ^ INING Exchange,
* Ra TOWER .^QUEENSLAND,’
Business Announcements
£j>.
9
f:
■IttdVIUM
ir
iUTSCAPSi
4j§ceoac£ r
jjIVDNBY
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE R£o.
QJTU DY ECONOBW
and
Hare jour Umbrella Frump gm
ccrtertxl, and four
Parasols re-lined and madfttfßN
to New, at
J. SULLIVAITIB
541 George 8 trees,
Brickfield Hill, betwvp
Lirerpool and Bathurst Stratfe
Parasols made to match a&>
r> *▼><*. ira r\e^t?y
F
ALAOE FAMILY HOTEL
Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne; Street*.
SOUTH BRISBANE
f lnt-olass Accommodation. Suites of Apartments
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID T.VONTS Proprietor.
■gJXCEL
SIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS
TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
«60,00(Tfto Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN Sc CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight in
fold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
'ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Redfern, Sydney.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
' H PORTERS Of All THE
NE WEST SHAPES.
m And at ALBERT STREET,
BRISBANE
1
i A L
!Ri(
DA KiNC
%
%
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
© r
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MERIT
jW uLtiy^ 1
aucfl
*KINQr
ISTH E B ESTINTHE WORLD I!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S *
ECE i VEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
PRIZE M EDAL
WAKOFAITURED^TjAIITsCHAHNb#
Harbo uAvS o n »y
Sold by AH Cr ocersand SfFrcKcep'nrs
I Business Announcements.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
-
VP
PATENT
.
LLS
PI
of
»
<§)
Are universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick; Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
('old Chills, Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costiveness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
ling Sensations, Ac. The first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes.
Every'sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humours* and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
will soon restore females of all ages to sound and
robust health. 'Phis has been proved by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and &
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BEECHAM’S PILLS have the Largeet Sal » of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheezing, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
COUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. lsd. and 2s. 9d. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
THB BANE OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Branchesi
64 PITT STREET, and 638 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... .. £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Ganaaa, easd nan offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial aud
travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills oc ’looted on most favour-
able terms, at rateß which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLI> Acting Manager.
s
(HENCE CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and thefLU
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No sMobb MERCURY ob otheb Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Or. T. C. WRIGHT,
MB., Ch. M., &0., C
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON mJT
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,”!
68, FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
lor the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Ner>
vous Debility, Chronio and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Sorofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is ourable, he
will tell you so: if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting a
oure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your case.
•CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Batterers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that I do not claim
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraoulous power.
I olalm only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly informed in my speciality.
Note Address—
PEOBEESSIV! VESICAL INSTITUTE,
58, Fundees Street W., Mbrboubnb.
No connection with any other Medical Institute In
Australia. Box 268. G.P.O.
\\J ANTED, Files of Thk Bulletin for the
TT last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
Business Announcements,
Guiness’s Extra Stout*
FIRST QUALITY,
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
OOLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Speoial Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. BalcMn, Johnston & 80,,
Coaunereial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney
Robert butcher & oo
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out' Of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
WE can recommend the Imperial Ham
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane,
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. A '’dress—
Temple Building, George-street (six dOv£s from
Queen’B-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D R RIDGE S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
¥
F* * rawJit
s mk. imSSti§fmSH
AND Ail CHEST AFFECTIONS
IPAHM ON*.*
MAS l\N<»»
OCHH AM P
Sfe
6. STEPHENSON
HAS OW SALK—
WINK CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATiJ
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE YATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &0.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREW]
Between King and Market Streets.
Hf«M koasUche tad Whigk«r»„ otrgm am*
iioya e Heard Elixir did this,
bmf will do it o « either bald
'head or bare face- Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fa{U<,9o v QQ(j' . .
Ospyrightedo young men already tstear full (tfopysrtQhtod*
beard*, having used Ito 3 pkta. No injury B easily applied, certain
i» effect. FacJeets, Is. QtL each, 3 for 3 s „<&&.» post paid, ten# undtx 1
vover, free from observation 0 lFiramk Sole Agmi*
Box wo, g.no., nr.e.w.
SW ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maklfil
• IBS PITT STREET.
Marquees on Hire
r ATKINSON’S^
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
all others for its lasting and natural
ft-agrance.
Tsstt Gold Medals—
PARIS. 1878, CALCUTTA. 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality,
Atkinson ’8 celebrated
EATJ DE COLOGNE.
Is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name. (
ATKINSON'S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP. 1
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
others for cleansing and softening the skin.
It It strongly and beautifully perfumed and ;
very lasting m use
Of all Bealert, and of Use Manufacturers —
J & K ATKINSON,
24, Ouo Bond Street, London
.Trade Mark—“ White Hose" on“ Golden
k Lyre."


II
HOYALJMtt^I
POWDER
Absolutely Pur® 3
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid Of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
bheßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En>
dorsedby the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powdkk Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSKS moss & CO.,
New South Walks.
ftaO.e
—IE 9 . m.
rnitoana ov
MT WINBS, BFIBITB, BBBBS, &0.„
Georgs and Gfipps Streets, Sydney.
BPMCIALITIESt-
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 19 yean old)j W. Jameson’s, Dunvllle’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Mar tail's and Sazerao’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (In wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
My The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. MT All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Walaa’ Hotel, 778 & 780 Goorga-straat.
Wholesale and Single Battle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney,
MT SEND FOB A PRICE LIST.
nisuiiss mss’ isnisiuEit ran »i imrai,
GIPPS 3TRMI (opposite A. Hobdbbh & Sons).
Produce Stores gipps street and darlinghurst road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS
3E^H3W
3 TFUKNTT ÜBMM WAREHOUS EB,,
“*YORK STREET. RTYHYARD SQUARE,"* "31
AND
CLARENCEivSTREET.ii'iSYDNEY,
and l London.
3 ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES W 123 PRICE LIST, FREK ON APPLICATION,
WALLAOH BROTHERS.
rjifi, nsi, nw*
H-M FEOTOI
Wn Artistie Posing »nd **••£*!
combining softness ud WHIM"'
{Photographs •*
SHARLIMONT ft
tROYAL >im*
" :stand pmi.HMnnnnnii
COLE MANE & SO**
Eucalyftb OH*
Victory Oikt* I ®^
A Pare Extract from the Bn«»lfP
Awarded GOLD MEDAL AdelaldeE****"
beating all other competitors.
Ist Prize Great Centennial Exhibit! ■
Oan be used for Oonaumption, ArjlJfjjfcidjJ
ohitie. Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Bad
and Gravel Complaints, Sprains, 00l »
Gout, etc. Posted to any address.
Manufactory:
Sydney Depot : 227 »
I Sold bv all Oheco^^^m
JDUZ 3S« «T«
L.R.0.P., Efiim, LuR.O.S. w»«
registered in Great Britain, and *sd ’
late surgeon to H.R.H. Prinoess W ggg/mS
Resident Medical Officer to th* Ft enffl® jjuflP
London, specialist for the treatment
and Heart Diseases, fco. .nr !*•* A
Oonsultation by letter 9*
charge, at Edgar House, No. 8,
Hunter-street Sydney.
ABI
oigjgjj
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS „„
There is net a country In the urt{
the healing: virtues ol these grand ill
recognised by thousands ot sufferers
ailments
aeguleed.
every disease IP YQC SUFPffi*.
factored only at 76 New o»oxMS.> »|JL tfi
thasew should leek Se the Label on jja “
I! tbs address is nei ASS Oxlerd-rtM*
spurious.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE ST
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIO. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
Easels, Brackets, Purses, Card Cases and Japanese
Fans,
CARDS ENGRAVED
O R
Curios.
BALL PROGRAMMES.
PRINTED. PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THE
Wertlieim
SEWING MACHINE OEPOTS
IN
VICTORI A..
Iqfß
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS
Gh 3T- PICSLES SOITS, Carxla,^©
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
City Repository :
Metropolitan Manufactory
5,
7, a, 11 LATROBE STREET WEST,
32, 34, 36 BRUNSWICK STREET,
fitzbo 1
0
reP^ obed
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides far THE '
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period or in the Event of Survival, FULL *
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. t3T Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
WIESENER’B WATCHES!
WIESBNBR’S WATCHES!
WIESENER’S
wa
HAVE proved a success as Useful and Reliable Timekeepers these 20 years. The reliable lines of the cheaper CiaSs Watches (in sterling Silver and Gold oases only) are fttlly
and the Public can rely upon being served better and cheaper in the long run than in Ironmongers or Toy Shops, where the only aim can be “ to get the money*
KST ROTHERHAM and ENGLISH WATCH COMPANY’S SILVER ENGLISH PATENT LEVERS, from 70s.
Remember the Address —
or
WALTHAM
T. F. WIESENER, Watchmaker, Jeweller and Optician, 334 George-street, Sydney (half-way between Hunter-street and Post Office)
