

H'
v
p
p,
p
H
Q
n
Jl
_JI
H'
P
0
H
P
H*
P*
0
►
p-
wii'u. i uimiifflWfflßgr-1
mm
ii
imm
If ■'«
t»£s
m
mmmmm*-
&A ■ is*3
ess*.
is
m a*.
HljL -
llteaiMi
smdm
mm
Ssasss§ii=
r--=
m
m
mssais.
■ :12
GREAT SALE
Viilohe's Watch Palace Issipol.
The Whole Stock Bought for Cash by STEVENSON
who will sell all Goods for a mere song
SipeoiaJ. Ixxtellig'en.ce.
Owing to the unprecedented Financial Crisis in Adelaide, Stevenson Bros, have been
enabled to buy, at 8/8 in the £, the Whole Stock of Diamonds, Jewellery, Watches, and
Silver Plate of the Central and well-known Watch Palace at the,corner of Rundle and King
William Streets, Adelaide. 1
GREAT SALE NOW BEING sHELD AT
STEYENSON 1 - JBROS.’
SYDNEY SHOP,
404 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite'! Australian Joint Stock Bank.
First-Class Goods at Prices lower than yet known in
Australia.
Special inducements for Wholesale Houses and the Trade
to secure bargains. The general public will be
treated with on same terms.
EVERY ARTICLE IS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURE?, from which Prices
there will be no deviation.
, Salk Prick
Usual Prick
each 10-u 63.
~ 63. 6d.
4s. Od.
9d.
£29
£35 103.
£22 10?.
£27 103.
£llO
£145
Tall Revolving Electro-Plated Cruets, richly
engraved, five bottles ...
Very neat and well-plated Pickle Cruets ...
Children’s Drinking Mugs, engraved outside,
glided inside
MHeotro-Plated Napkin Rings ... ...
Diamond Locket, sat with Diamond Weigh-
ing 4 carats ...
Exquisite Locket, 33 large Diamonds .
Beautiful Diamond Locket, 10 large pure-
water Diamonds
Beautiful Diamond Necklace, 13 Pull cub
and brilliant Diamonds
Very Superior Diamond Bracelet, 75 large
full-out Diamonds, the stones weighing
about 30 carats
Largest Diamond Brooch In Australia,
Diamond weighing about 9 carats
v i I IVI 'IIM
Spoons and Porks, by Best Makers, at Very Low rates.
Variety of Rings, Bangles, Bracelets, Watches, Brooches, Earrings, Electro
Plated Goods, See., Sec., at Phenomenally Low Rates.
22s Od,
12s. 63.
10s. 63.
23. Od.
£6O
£72
£4O
£6O
£2OO
£250
Q h „
Adelaide
SJC’ 1 Br O 0 ne f, artd made by
v V? 8, ki,) ’ to tho order of
liO' lder - Value,
100
E3£S.e> -A.ITX3 IMPOBTBRS OB’
WATCHES, JEWELLERY, & SILVER PLA TE,
4=o4= GKEO3E3O-E street,
Opposite A.J.S. Bank.
also A T
2,0, AND 20 BUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.!
FINANCIAL CRISIS IN ADELAIDE.
i
The South Australian Grand Cricket-
ing Challenge Cup, designed and made
by Stevenson Bros.
Value, 70 Guinea?.
The Bulletin


THE HEADING AND CHEAPEST HOUSE FOR
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
and Musical Instruments of every description, is
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, 3 DOOR FROM G.P.O.
ALL the best makers kept in stock, and every instrument guaranteed. The iron-framed
“ VICTOR Piano excels all others, and is fully equal in every respect to Pianos sold at £52 and £55.
Call and inspect or send for. Photo, and particulars. UEBEL AND LECHLEITER Pianos, and
ESTEY and Co.’s American Organs are both marvels of cheapness.
EASIEST TIME PAYMENTS, FROM 20s. A MONTH.
Qupr/vSrx&p,
AATO
TftCACll
PFfIPfPS.
MAP Office t Factory, ncwtowh
B/iMeh. C£after Si. SYMfnr
fJlHE
AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE CORNER of MARKET and
YORK STREETS. SYDNEY.
Incorporated by Act of Executive Council,
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
The Eon. Francis
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A.
J, F. Martin, E8q.
Abigail,
John Yana, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathsy, Esq
Last Dividend paid to Shareholders at the rate of 12| per.
cent per annum
Bonns paid to Deposito s of 12 months (2 per cent. I
„ 6 ,, (1 per cent)
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business, Current
accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and makes Advances
upon all kinds of Commercial Securities. Agencies in Lon-
don and throughout the world. Overdrafts granted against
deposits of Deeds. Deposits received. Interest allowed: —
S months, 4 per cent.; 6 months, 5 per cent. 12 months, 6
per cent. By order of the Board of Directors. H.
M'KAMAEA, Secrerary.
THOS. BU(JKLAND,
MISTING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL A GSM*
Ohartxbs To wans.
Agent for Rohey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln |
„ „ Langland's Foundry Co., Melbourne, Tit
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT.
Minins Exchansb.
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND
1
Krsllas
HOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have »onr Umbrella Vimn re*
covered end yonr
Faraeoli re-lined and made §q«*
lo New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Btreet,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Street*
Faraioli made to matoh
tawai Repair* neatly exaewte*
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
i SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS,
£ JMiFKRIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE,
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
It of Muawellbrook and Rockhampton.
MT Heat*class Family and Commercial Hotel.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
ALFRED LISTER, Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies.
Replete with every comfort and convenience of
modern times for the travelling public.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
yiM»T.nT,AHH Accommodation jtob Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F, E. STEWART, Proprietor,
GiTJEIEJTNrSXj-A-ITID-
MILLAR, CARTER, AND CO.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency.—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Ciroular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland,
Robert butcher & co
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 A GEORGE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and out Of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
Belle Vue
rrawi r
BitISBAITB.
Opposite Parliament Houses, Botanical Has***,
and Queensland Club.S •
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
ACCOMMODATION FOR M,
A Walter Meets Ever* Steamsi,
Letters and telegrams please address pro-
prietor.
H, M. COLLINS,
Palace Family Hotel,
Cobneb or Stanley and Melbourne Streets*
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Snites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
jgJXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
wn, situated corner of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
Ta a.Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Dolorbux, Aching Pains in the Limbs
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those exoruelatlng Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary In Bottles, Is., 3s. od., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEB BRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agenoy can be seen. Admitted by the Medioal
Faoulty to, be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared bv the Bole Proprietor,
9. L BOSE, Phanmntlcal Ohemlst,
531 GoorareHStreet only.
SWALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker
• 396 Pitt-street.
—yj.
masm.
f§|^e
•♦liMWir OttM&W SMJ> ftma Utixtm *
Q3s
•9J]H no BOonOTOH
THE ORIGINAL
BAK..VC p
WAUGH'S *
OBTAINED
FIRST CLASS AWARD
0 *
HIGHEST DECREE OF MEKII.
*A
%r *
7
*4* -
■* •
ISTHEBEST INTHLWORIo.I!
NONE OTH £P BUT
f WAUQMS
iCCCIVtOTHf IN?C«HAIIONAL
PRIIE M'EDAL
Manufactured byJamesOiAimoa
Hakooua s f Sroaaar
Sold by Ail C*oc«rs &n4sftnXfQNgrtj
TOBACCO
• ■»
DIXON & SONS
tobaooc works,
SYDNEY.
as SONS’ CONQUEROR FACTOR!
not only manufactures MOB® TOBACCO
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES TBB
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF impO rted
r nto New South Wales, and hence the B rea ' ;
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tobacco . 1 ®
Australia. V 'll
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, CHAMP# 1 *
gold leaf. ~ |
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURE
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No 1 machine «H»d B '
10,000 per hour, the choicest Virginian W*
and Paris rice tissue.. B ' lin size sold by 8
retailers at 3d. per packet of 10 cigarstuCS
><EW ZEAIAND,
herbal remedies.
TESTIMONIALS
from the Sondan Contingent Hoiplta
U Corps; alio from eminent Dootori and
f- Btudentsifrom Sydney Hospital *.
MOKE’S
rue HIXTVBB,
li. Bd. per Bottle.
Elk (or It and tike no mbititnte.
Ii an invaluable care. See teitbnoniali,
MOIST KZ’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhae Miitoe,
A positive core. Sold by all Chemists,
Bs. fid. per bottle.
MONK’S
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
Bs. Bd. per bottle,
Sole Agentsi
MATHEY, NATHAN* 00..
301 PITT STREET, SYDNEY j
AND
ti LittliH] ollins trebt East, Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
Thb Central Hotel, Private Sim Room,
for all parties engaged In mining
H. 6. BAILES, Proprietor,
COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer
oial Gentlemen and Families. Private slttlni
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Showei
Bath. Billiards (Adcock's). First-class ohtf
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and splritß oi
the best brandß, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Jcnr., Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS,
Head Office: Townsville, N, Queensland,
a s. CURTIS,
Auctioneer* & Beal Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry ani
Bolton) wishes to Inform the nnmeroui
friends of the Firm and the travelling public tha
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge o
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will hencefortl
be carried on under hie personal supervision
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit
lng tbe celebrated Mountain will find every cornier
and convenience to greet them on their arrival
BILLIARD TABLE aND PIANO ON THB
PREMISES, also STABLING for the aooommoda
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOOB
within five minutes walk of the Hotel Coaohbi
DAILY FROM and TO &OCSKHAICFTON.
Hot* m* - *»?j*ibbb—
HiCP < . HOLTON
(Of the Ften art tUawxr ft Bolton).
& a t* B V 3 t HOTEL
MOUNT '
WiskMWk*A^jM
TYPE-WRITE]
Bars* labour. ikaklonarg, and klma, wrlktag wash Caiki
ban axnert nan-man, and aondanitag atakter la Sea, kb*
'Bi-half khe tn*»e Mannlsi' 'op pan wrlktag. Bsankih
°P l *« «**» bakekan to »t« wswal mannar In khe laakar-nrs*
Sold wholaaak and retail a* '.fee anl« eeenki,
IMRAY ft CO.
<lO Kent-street.
i)
mn§mnt*£**
§WP*qrens
fesjAPSi.
«fIC£ORCJ ST
SYDNEY
PAlltf
MOULTON'S PAIN
CURES ALL PAIN- J
The best known remedy for
NEURALGIA. HEADACHE, TOOTHS,,,,
SPRAINS. BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS.
and taken internally cures DIABR^ 1
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all 01
internal aches and pains.
PTice, £>/- sold
8.1. MOULTON, sou mmin*
meibodenu and eYo
OUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QNEENSL*^
Under the distinguished patronage of D lB -jjo 1
oellenoy Sir A. Musgrave, K.C.M.G. AcC °wtO« i
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey building o, ct
the balconies a splendid view can be obtain®
the celebrated mountain of gold, and within * $
minutes’ walk of the company’s works. P aSBB
and mail coaches daily from Rockhampt®? pfO'
Kibra railway-stations. W. MONCKTON. *
pritor, of the firm of Monokton and Co. x
3S/COXJ3STT IVEOIRQ-^^'
QUBEBSLAMD TaTIOHAL HO** 1,
20 BKUKOuMS.
TT I.'
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done
is now ready for the reception of j,
Bvery comfort. Collar stocked with best » r *T
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HEISER, Proprf® 8
M > R S K.
<..w® (late of the DeteottTejjYoroe f
Wwiis inquiry, Missing Friends, and O*® 1
Business Agency Office, /
II ROYAL ABGADB, SYDNSV
Absconders »uo wife deserters araoad. and all
KaSdentia) Inquiries instituted Sridenoe obia®j pjO'
carriage, or death, obtained la &n» part ef & e
and debt? collected From R M. R.’s long »»{
« M»«JJeJeotlTe Force of New South Wales Victor!*'. *»»
SSL 5 ??* 1 .* 1 ? 3 * * n3 established agencies In *ll part* ~||oS.
flohe, he is In a position to oonduct *ll inquiries with ®*r
IXDNItiiAB »na tfisresv *nd ftc
BYottp*4F Mlend lo »U baK;nei« enfemited to h y'
ff
i/MV
I
machinery.
iUtll
as ft
11ARSNE
EMQINES,
SOILERS
POHPB.
LARGE STOCKS
With all
NEWEST DESICNS
HIGHEST FINISH
LOWEST COST!
CRAli^
an® 1
HOIST**
ENC«N^
uw<*
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGB, LAUNCHES,^
ESTIMATBD POB COMPLETE!.
ROBERT COOPER WEBSTER
INSOLE A.rrENT^
•ydaeji
ill* HIT ITBIET.
Melbourne *
Cl KINO STRESS


The Bulletin
tcl 9 -No. 418
SATURDAY. FEBRUARY 4, 1888,
Frice. Gd.
Centennial Soup.


“THE BULLETIN,”
the National Australian Newspaper.
Pbopbiestobb l BULLETIN NEWSPAPER 00 ,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 2i PITT-STBEET, SIDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly ... 0 13s. Od.
Quarterly 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques Drafts, <tc., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary-communications to be addressed to J. V. Archibald
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shilling
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
Hands of our carriers , with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN,
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1888
The Dirt-Eaters of New South Wales.
Amid much boasting of the advance o:
modern civilisation, the political institution
of the world remain in some respects ver
much where they did 10,000 years ago
Man in the nineteenth century leaves
larger footprint on the sands of time than
his ancestors did ; he builds bigger piles o:
bricks and mortar than his predecessors
and the spread of literature enables each
ignoble Jones to erect his dusty pyramid in
the back-yard of history, and hand himsel:
down to posterity bound in appropriate
half-calf. There are more great men to the
square mile now than formerly, or at least
there appear to be. In the days of the past
great men had generally to wait till the
world recognised them as such, but now
they write to the newspapers and announce
their own eminence, and, thanks to this judi-
cious system of advertising, the Smiths of the
present loom up and obscure the Solons ol
antiquity, and the back-blocks Mayor who
receives an illuminated address for his ser-
vices in driving the goats off the town
reserve, is puffed by the press until he
eclipses the long dynasties of the Pharaohs
with all the sages of Greece and Arabia
thrown in. The world contains more
wealth than of old, more tinsel, and more
vanity, hypocrisy and debt; and these
things, combined with an elaborate system
of mutual admiration, make up the
alleged civilisation of the nineteenth
century. Bat man himself is the same un-
changed, unchangeable being as of old.
The so-called Christian of-to-day, beneath
his coat of broadcloth, is identical with the
Pagan of thousands of years ago beneath his
coat of paint and grime. He worships the
same terrestrial gods as did his remote ances-
tors. The dirt-eaters of the earth are still
uppermost.
• • *
In this day of Centennial feeds and Cen-
tennial lies and drivel, New South Wales
wastes much self-gratulation upon the sub-
ject of her political institutions. The spread
of Democratic principles enables her to elect
the scum of her population to make laws for
her people and to represent them before an
admiring world ; whereas, in the dark ages
of the past, before the Democracy existed,
the ancestors of the Australian nation were
ruled by the scum of their own generation-
only the human refuse of that time was a
hereditary institution and held its absolute
sway by virtue of the doctrine of divine
right and the sword. The world has seen
many forms of government, but they have
all possessed one feature in common—that
of being lower and more debased than the
people whose affairs they were supposed to
direct. The theocracy of Palestine was a
government of divine revelation, but the re-
velation was filtered through a dubious race
of bloodthirsty prophets, and the result was
a hideous epoch of alternate slavery and re-
volt. The system of absolute monarchy,
which was long accepted as the sole refuge
from anarchy, ran one invariable course of
misery and oppression ; government by an
oligarchy only meant the reign of many
tyrants in place of one ; and the modern
parliamentary institutions which masquerade
under the name of Liberty are already falling
into decay in almost every country where
the Democracy has placed its trust in them.
In the course of a century of existence New
South Wales has tried almost all these
schemes in turn, and the result has been
nothing but failure. The Jewish system of
theocracy, indeed, she has omitted from the
list—government by divine revelation would
have neon strangely inappropriate In a land
where the only political revelations ever
known came from beneath, but the early
Governors, the New South Wales Corps, the
days of martial law, and the era of the
nominee Council supplied all the elements of
anarchy, absolute monarchy, and oligarchy ;
and finally the establishment of an elective
Assembly has added a species of sham
Democracy to the list of legislative experi-
ments which have been practised on an un-
fortunate colony. And in every case the
results have been the same. The Govern
ment has represented the lowest passions of
the populace, and from first to la t the dirt-
eaters of the nation have been its rulers,
and their rule has been worthy of their
character in every detail.
* * *
Less than half a century has elapsed since
representative Government was established
in New South Wales, and already the system
is rotten in every branch. In many other
countries the sbarn-Democra^ic institution cf
a—so-called—popular chamber has flourished
for a while, and then fallen into a process of
slow decay, but. thanks to the policy of
Centralisation which has prevailed in the
mother-colony Australia, the Parlia-
mentary system decayed in its very
infancy, and has into senility before
the battle of national freedom was fairly
commenced. The very basis upon which
the people’s representatives are selected is
hopelessly animal in its selfishness, and
political policy consists in an appeal to the
lowest and narrowest of human passions.
In the p litical system of New South Wales
there is hardly one legislator who can be
said in any sense to represent the country at
large. Each member speaks on behalf of
some particular network of city slums, or
raises his voice in defence of some sleepy
township planted on some one-horse track
in the backwoods, and when the needs of
his own slum or his own special gully are
duly attended to the rest of the colony
may sink into the nether regions of
perdition if it chooses, Under the existing
system of Centralisation, almost every penDy
of public money which is expended is a
bribe ; the party in power is the party that
is bought, and the party in opposition is the
party that is for sale unfurnished. The man
of independent mind is the only one who is
not wanted in New South Wales politics.
Unless a member is prepared to attach him-
self to a lsader and vote with him through
good and evil, but principally through evil,
his district is left out in the division of the
spoils, and, therefore, the low, mercenary
ruffian, who will sell his country in con-
sideration of a bridge or a loop-line for the
wild cat region which sends him to the legis-
lative Pandemonium, is the ideal statesman
of New South Wales. The whole system of
government is framed to exclude, as far as
possible, everything bearing the slightest re-
semblance to talent or principle, and it is for
this reason that the acknowledged swindler
is the man who most frequently holds
high office, and that the notorious
debauchee and the dubious insolvent
live longest in the annals of their
country. In New South Wales politics
Demosthenes would stand no show against
the publican at the corner, and Gladstone
would find himself at the bottom of the poll
unless he pledged himself to vote for a rail-
way to run through the swamp of the in-
fluential local resident and connect it with
the sandhill owned by the important man at
the other end of the electorate.
* * *
A complete measure of local government,
which would remove all expenditure on
public works from the control of the central
administration, and the abolition of the
present system of constituencies, are the
only means which promise to effect a cure of
this long-standing political leprosy. If New
South Wales is ever to be a nation her Par-
liamentary delegates must represent the
people at large instead of being so many
sons of the horse-leech sent to cadge money
at the sacrifice of principle and decency,
each on behalf of his own little knot of
followers. The petty local steals, which at
present block all useful legislation, must be
relegated to local bodies and supplied out of
local funds, and when this is done and the
central Legislature is left to deal only with
affairs of national importance, it will be
fitting that its members should, as nearly as
possible, represent the nation as a whole
instead of each merely grinding an axe for
one little community cut off from its neigh-
bours by an imaginary electoral boundary.
For the purposes of the central administra-
tion New South Wales should form some
four or five great constituencies, each with
six or eight members, and by this sweeping
reform the great mass of fraud, and corruption
which disgraces the political Byßtem of
the colony would be reduced at once to a
minimum. The race of mental and moral
deadbeats who now form nine-tenths of the
Legislature, and who gain their seats by
their willingness to sink the interests of the
country at large so long as there is a log to
roll in the back street which returns them
to Parliament, would vanish for ever. The
chief duty of a politician would no longer
be to swamp every vestige of honour and
principle in the scramble for borrowed
money, for the existing Public Works
system would be a thing of the past, and the
patronage which has enabled so many
Premiers to buy a subservient following
would be utterly abolished, and with the re-
moval of this disability men with some trace
of a conscience would again become eligible
for seats in the House. The fact that' the
candidate would virtually have to appeal to
the country at large would make it essential
for his suecess that he should be possessed
of a certain measure of talent and reputa
tion instead of being, as he now frequently
is, the public-house oracle of a backwoods
township. The shady means by whicl
astute politicians are now enabled to earn
an election in the face of an actual majority
wou'd prove impracticable when it became
necessary to attempt them on a large scale
and when great issues were no longer made
subservient) to burning questions regard
ing a tank or a pump, the will c:
the people would be expressed with greater
clearness than has ever yet been possible.
Under the existing system, when a poli-
tician is dismissed, as Parkis was at the
close of his last dictatorship, with ignominy
and rotten eggs, he can still cajole the
yokels in some remote spot on the uttermost
bounds of the land to reinstate him in Par-
liament, and thus the incubus which the
nation longs to shake off for ever is re-
imposed on her by the votes of a few deluded
bushmen, who are deceived by the glozing
tongue and brazen front of a man who
become a national disgrace, but under a new
policy schemes like this would become all
but impossible ; the decision of the people
would be final, and the politician whom they
had once dismissed could return to insult
them no more,,
# « •
The only possible plea, for a continuance
of the present system is the necessity of
having local needs represented in the
Assembly, and when these are entrusted
entirely to local bodies and the Parliament
of the-nation ceases to be paroclral scavenger
and parochial beadle to every tenth-rate
township in a huge colohy, it will be
hard to find one feasible argument in
defence of the policy which has reduced
the New South Wales Legislature to be-
neath the level of a menagerie. Under the
existing regime the Assembly at Sydney has
been swollen to absurd dimensions in the
effort to gratify every bush settlement by
providing it with a representative of its own,
and every member thinks it his duty to
block the business of the nation at large by
a grievance concerning the re-paintirg of the
local post-office ; or rises to dilate upon the
iniquity of the Government which declines
to remove the dead jackass from the main
thoroughfare at the cost of the State, and
wishes to know if the Treasurer will pay at
least half the expense involved in having
the carcase hauled away. The miserable
parochialism of the New South Wales Legis-
lature has made it the laughing-stock of
Australasia, but it is this same spirit of paro-
chialism which has crowded the Assembly
with the larrikin sand dirt-eaters of the colony,
and it is by buying this miserable horde in the
manner openly permitted by the law that
Sir Henry Parkes has ensured his long
ascendancy. The introduction of a radical
scheme of local government would end the
career of judicious and legalised log-rolling
which has supported him in the world of
politics for a generation, but so long as he is
in power such a scheme can hardly be hoped
for. Even the half-measure, which was
introduced a few months ago, was skilfully
crowded out by the Dead House scheme
and the project for embezzling the name of
Australia, and its future prospects are very
remote. The breath of Parliamentary re-
form would wither up the old Dictator in a
day. When there were no more roads and
bridges and deviations to be obtained, his
following of sycophants would dissolve like
snow, and, therefore, political purity must die
that Parkes may live.
The Skeletons at the Feast.
There is a skeleton at every feast. At the un-
veiling of Queen Victoria’s statue (it cost £5OOO
or so, and has, no doubt, been paid for out of
loan-funds or sales of the lands belonging to the
people of the hard-up colony of New South
Wales) there were four skeletons, and they were
duly introduced to the assembled multitude by
His Excellency Lord Carington, who said
In assisting at this ceremony of unveiling the Queen's
statue, we are not only paying our tribute of personal re-
spect to the Sovereign of the greatest confederation which
the world has ever seen, but as loyal citizens and as Ihonest
men we are asserting a great principle. We are showing our
veneration for order, and we recognise that under a consti-
tutional sovereignty we have been able to obtain the greatest
amount of freedom which a country has ever enjoyed, with
the certainty that the weakest of us will be. protected, and that
justice will be meted out to all alike, and that the laws made by
the people themselves will be administered without fear, part i-
ality, favour, or affection. Under the Queen's rule every
person in New South Wales knows that the powers of the
Executive are held in trust for the people, and that Ministers
ultimately are responsible to the people themselves for the exer.
cise of those powers.
* • *
Considering the importance of the occasion
from an Imperial standpoint, Governor Caring -
ton’s speech was so commonplace that it would
have disgraced a schoolboy. But we do not write
this article merely for the purpose of directing
attention to the quality of the oratory which the
colonists get for the £30,000 they annually expend,
directly and indirectly, in maintaining in
magnificence the superficial, horsey man
about town who has been foisted on to
their treasury merely because he is a friend of the
Prince of Wale?. When Governor Carington
remarked at the outset of his speech that. “as
honest men" they were asserting a great prin-
ciple, he went out of his way to insult the Repub*
licana of Australia, who, by implication, are thus
alleged to be dishonest men : “ loyalty ” to a throne
16,000 miles away is asserted to be the handmaiden
of rectitude. The rest of Governor Carington’s
speech clearly had reference to the one great
episode in his vice regal career—the Mount
Rennie case—and was so interpreted, The Bul-
letin makes bold to aver, by 99 out of every 100
who heard the words fall from his lips or read the
newspaper-reports subsequently. The fact that
he should, on such an occasion, drag from the
grave the skeletons of the four wretched, igno-
rant boys whom he sent to the gallows in
deference to the brutality of the laws and the in-
direct.inAuence of the ruling classes of a convict
colony which has not even yet emerged from be-
neath the shadow of the gaol-wall, argues that
Governor Carington, however little may be his
brain, possesses a conscience and is now troubled
in spirit. We do not wonder at it. He spoke of
“the weakest being protected.” He choked to
death, to protect the “ virtue ” of a street-walker,
four lads whose crime could not have been
punished with death in any other country under
the sun, and who were convicted after a trial the
manner of which—we say it for the hundredth
time, and will say it ten thousand times more—
was, and is, a disgrace to civilisation, and a his-
sing, burning brand of shame on the Supreme
Court of the colony which can never be effaced.
“ Justice will be meted out to all alike,” said
Governor Carington. Does Governor Caring-
ton know, or does he not know, that one of the
Mount Rennie convicts, whose guilt was possibly
greater than that of any of the others, and who
was reprieved, was the nephew of a Minister of
the Crown and a-cousin of a high official in the
Civil Service? That another guilty Mount Rennie
convict, who was unaccountably reprieved, was an
illegitimate member of a rich Sydney family? and
that convicts are getting out of gaol every week
in the year simply because they have friends in
high places ?
* * •
“The laws made by the people them-
selves will be administered without fear, par-
tiality, favour, or affection.” Those, we happen
to remember, were the exact words used by
Governor Caring ton in his reply to the historic
deputation from the Sydney Exchange which
asked him almost in so many words to hang
four boys, all under 18 years of age ; so that
here would be another proof, if one were
needed, as to the groove in which his
lordship’s mind was running when he stood
up to eulogise the spirit in which the law is dis
pensed in Sydney. “ Ministers ultimately are re!
sponsible to the people themselves for the exercise
of the powers of the Executive.” This is untrue,
and nobody knows it as well as Governor Caring-
ton. The Imperial instructions to the Governor
under the Constitution Act are to the effect that
in all cases involving the execution of the sen-
tence of death, the Governor must first consult
the Executive Council, but, having done so, he
“is to act on his own responsibility alone." The
Executive Council was divided almost equally
over the Mount Rennie case, yet the
Governor, on his own responsibility alone
(for he must have acted alone if he did
his duty according to his instructions),
sent four boys to the hangman. His PiLATE-like
attempt at self-vindication is a disastrous failure.
Governor Carington’s speech invites us to repeat
that since his arrival in Australia he has experi-
enced but one crisis which gave him an oppor-
tunity of proving whether he Was “ a man or a
mouse,” and in that crisis he, having a full and
complete and unfettered option, deliberately
elected to ‘uphold in defiance of the true principles
of British justice, the worst and most bloody of
the convict traditions of New South Wales.
* * *
The Bulletin does not choose to judge
Governor Carington by his nice moustache, or by
his well-flavoured claret-cup, or by the pawing of
his excellent horses, or by the hot-house delicacy
of the “ Society” refinement which prompted him
to order that the charming people from Potts
Point should not dance at Government House on
the night before the morning on which four boys
were to dance upon the air. Nor does it choose
to judge him altogether by the “goodness of
heart which prompts him to be very sorry (in
writing) whenever there is a Are at a shirt-shop.
The Bulletin has quite made up its mind about
a person who, being utterly inexperienced in the
administration of law and being utterly incom-
petent to debate or consider an abstract question,
accepts a position in which he has to arbitrate as
to the fate of citizens condemned to death—and
who, having taken his place as the representative
of a monarch alleged to be civilised and just and
merciful, signalises his advent by a decision which
Alls the world with horror. We read that Boehm'S
statue of Queen Victoria looks “austere.” To
hear such a speech from Lord Carington was
enough to make the Fount of Mercy frown.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Gathering of the Official White Trash.
The difference between the genuine Australian
and the official white trash in Australia was
shown with more than usual distinctness at the
Centennial banquet given in Sydnoy Exhibition
Building on Thursday last. The gathering was
supposed to be commemorative of an event of
more or less importance in Australia's history,
but the speakers of the evening were almost all
foreigners and almost all foreign officials covered
with foreign orders and decorations, and their
talk was not of Australia, but of the little island
in the North Soa which sent them out to rule the
great Continent in the Southern Pacific. The
great debt which Australia owed to England, the


obligati oll upon Australia to support England in
her foreign wars and to mix herself up with Bul-
garian intrigues, Russian war-scares, Chinese
campaigns, Egyptian piracy, and Burmese mas-
-Bac-es, and to take over at cost price all the
accumulated moral leprosy of 1000 years of politi-
cal corruption as a return for the generous gift of
a crowd of lags, the duty incumbent upon the
colonies to shore up England in order that she
might tear round Europe as she did in the days of
her earlier greatness, and many similar topics,
were dealt with in profusion, but the idea that
Australia could possibly have any rights of her
own apart from those which England chose to
confer upon her, seemed to occur to nobody pre-
sent. Sir Henry Loch struck the keynote of the
orgy by his definition of Imperial Federation—a
definition which, for artless simplicity, was worthy
of the heathen Chinee when properly opium-
soddened :
That distinguished statesman and patriot, the Right Hon.
w B Dalle y, and the Government of which he was a
member, took the first steo towards the establishment of a
federation such as that of which he spoke by dispatching
the contingent to Egypt, and the far-sighted polioy which
had been adopted by the eminent statesmen of this great
enlons and other colonies and the action of the several Par-
liaments in passing the Naval Defence Act formed a second
great step towards the accomplishment of the same end.
Federation, in the gospel according to Loch,
means the privilege of every true Australian to
sink his soul to perdition by murdering at his own
expense any unhappy heathen towards whom
Britain entertains a grudge. This view of the
' case is a point lower in the scale of common-
sense than that which defined freedom as the
right of every man to wallop his own nigger, but
then nobody expects common-sense in a Governor.
Futhermore, the outpost of British Imperialism
spread himself as follows :
Never in the history of the Empire had it been more im-
portant than at the present moment that the mother country
and the colonies should stand together with a steady front,
with the great powers of Europe armed to the teeth and
standing face to face.
gome day Australia will shake herself free from
Britain, and then the Great Powers of Europe
may stand face to face until they have to sit down
from sheer weariness without'this country being
affected in the slightest degree. Next Sir An-
thony Musgrave took up the parable
He was quite sure that the younger colonies in the group
would follow the lead of the mother colony in any effort she
might make to consolidate the strength of Australia, and to
cement her union into one solid block in that gi eat Empire
whose drumbeat, that gre it orator, Daniel Webster, said, is
heaid following the rising sun and keeps time with the hour.
Australia has no desire to become a “ block," but
all the assembled official white trash burst out in
imbecile cheers at the prospect, and hoorayed
themselves hoarse in honour of the good time
uomiDg. Then Parkes grovelled on a new basis :
We are, in fact, so many republics without the dangerous
polity of a real republic. (Hear, hear.) We have in the
temperate monarchy of the present day a greater freedom
than we ever could enjoy in any form of republican govern-
ment known in the world. The bonds that unite us to the
Imperial power are bonds of silk. The bonds that are to
unite us together must be made of steel.
Here the man for whom the school children’s
pennies are being cadged struck an unconscious
truth. Australia has not the “dangerous polity
of a real republic,” for the simple reason that she
is neither a Republic nor a Kingdom, nor even a
nation, but only a Spot, and as the Acts of her
Parliaments are subject to the approval of the
cast-off politicians whom Britain sends out to boss
her institutions, with an appeal to the Crown as a
further stumbling-block to progress, she has only
such a polity as England thinks fit to allow when
she is quite rested, and has time to think of Aus-
tralia at all. But Sir Henry glided off this
dangerous ground to demand a general
conscription of all the young men in Australia
for the purpose of rolling back the tide of war
when Britain brings down some horde cf Tartar
savages upon our shores. Then the band played
“Home, Sweet Home,” and Sir Frederick
Darley rose to sound the lowest note of worse
than Chinese degradation by describing Aus-
tralasia, Canada, and all the. rest of the colonies
as “ England’s provinces,” and the aggregation of
foreign white trash, who insolently posed as the
representatives of Australia, departed on their
well-fed way. Even Australia’s celebrations are
conducted by foreigners, and when she wants to
rejoice she is only allowed to pay English officials
to rejoice for her.
«.
Tlic Peer and the Chinaman,
The British tourist who totters for a few days
round the shores of Australia—who looks in at
one or two cities, and then imagines that he has
gained a full insight into the entire social system
of the Continent—is a nuisance which we have
always with us. Froude did this, and then
poured forth the superhuman gall of his ignorance
in print, with a result that will be remembered
long after bis other doings axe forgotten, and now
Lord Brassey, with more gall and less brains, is
following in his footsteps. Last week he took the
chair before a gapiDg audience at Exeter Hall,
London, the place which has so long been asso-
ciated with the sky-pilot and the missionary, or,
as the Frenchmen justly term him, the copra
apoßtle, and there, supported by an ignoramus
named Watt, he assured his audience that the
great want of the Northern Territory of Australia
was Chinamen. If Australia is to be saved, ac-
cording to the man with the half-crown yacht,
she must have lepers, and must have them in
droves. The trading Englishman, of whom
Brassey is a melancholy type, is so much accus-
tomed to see a land crowded with human beings
until there is scarcely air or standing room for the
stifling multitude that he looks upon the great
solitudes which are still to be found in portions of
Australia as a blight upon the earth, and he
straightway calls for human rubbish to shoot into
the primeval wilderness, to defile the streams
and turn the cataracts into sewers. He thirsts to
build slums upon the oases, and plant gaols and
breweries in the valleys, and grog-shops upon a
thousand hills. The great lone wilderness is to
him only a favourable location on which to dump
down a dirty city with a dog-fight at every corner,
and a cesspool in every back yard, and when he
looks upon the wide plains with their fringe of
blue hills on the far horizon, and learns that there
are not at present enough white men to fill them
up he wants to know why Chinamen can’t be im-
ported to keep the silent places of God’s earth
from going to seed. lie views the great, mysteri-
ous wilds With shop in his soul, and is grieved to
learn that they don’t pay any dividends; he
stands on the fringe of the vast Unknown and
urges that a soap-factory should be built on it,
and he would fain cork the cascades to prevent
them running to waste. Probably no one ever
yet mistook Brassey for a child of song, the
shovel and wheelbarrow cf his sire have entered
into his gilded soul too deeply lo make such an
error possible—but if any one conceived the pos-
sibility of some glimpse of poetic fancy being
hidden behind that dull exterior the pitiful
sordidness of the proposal to flood Aus-
tralia with Mongols, and turn the Northern
Territory into a vast lazaretto for com-
mercial ends will dispel it for ever, The
greasily pious habitues of Exeter Hall no doubt
hailed the suggestion with applause, and looked
forward to the time when the white man and the
Chow would lie down together in the tropics,
and when the soul of the latter would be upheaved
by association with the soidisant Christian, but the
Australian has different views, and in this matter he
will either have his own way or something will be
heard to drop at an early date.
Centennial Gas.
Very reaently an agitation went abroad through-
out the length and breadth of New South Wales
for a Centennial christening, and men clamoured
and the heathen raged for a change in their coun-
try's cognomen. In view of the development of
flre-worship, which seems gradually to have
grown up since the advent of fireworks in the
Sydney Domain, New South Wales might not
unjustly call herself Terra Dei Fuego, or the land
of imitation Sheol. The genuine article wouldn’t
mind, and the Terra Del Fuegans call their ash-
plot by a native name, and do not appreciate the
Christian-bestowed appellation of their country.
Whenever Australia wants to jubilate, or centen-
niate, or celebrate in any fashion whatsoever, she
turns on the gas and puts the meter on an infernal
spree, and while the people go mad with loyalty,
hydrogen runs riot in the gasometer and goes in for
an intangible drunk. Gas is the medium for in-
toxicating merriment, and vapour the legitimate
channel for sentiment, Gas, verbal and hydro-
genic, rules the roost and fills the atmosphere,
and it is a difficult thing to make out where one
sort of gas leaves off and the other begins.
Considered in the light of a locomotory gaso-
meter, Sir Henry Parkhs, G.C.M.G, pretty
well fills the bill, but he is a hard-raced
reservoir when the ornamental warrior from
Manly is around clamouring for a union of the
English ; speaking people, or a titled British
Minister out of a billet is endeavouring to
persuade callow Australians of the beauty and
holiness of Imperial Federation. But it is with
the gas manufactured in Kent-street, Sydney, that
we have at present to deal, and during the recent
Centennial shivoo vapour of another brand, to
wit, the north-easterly wind, had it all its own
way, and distanced ihe artificial lightning agency
hands down. The intended-to-be most resplendent
spectacle of the Centenary, Captain look's
statue, was a dark and dismal failure. Behind
the framework erected to carry the lamps, Cook
looked like an imprisoned Magog in a canary-
cage, and his galley-fires didn’t gleam worth a
cent. The Queen’s recently up-tilted effigy of
bilious-tinted bronze was a similar massive
disaster, and the Town Hall was a ghastly monu-
ment of adermanic endeavour after fiery loveli-
ness, sprinkled with spasmodic fireflies, and
pimply in spots with Chinese lanterns. In fact,
all the illuminations which faced the wind were
dismally out of it, for the main reason that they
were right in the teeth of it. Long rows of
flameless fairy-lamps hung like strings of
strangled convicts from the trees in the parks,
with here and there a sickly glint like a stab in
the vital part of the night. The doctors in
College-street managed to get up a show of harle-
quin-coloured magnificence, which somewhat re-
lieved the tombful blackness of Hyde Park, and
lighted up the way to the cold and silent sarco
phagus. The doctors’ lamps threw their medi-
cine-tinctured radiance across the wilderne=s of
life, and reminded one cheerfully of the sweet and
gentle corpse-lights that lend their gilded glamour
to the grave. The Exchange, which boasted the
best show in Jubilee session, was illuminated
mostly by the pungent perfume of escaping gas
and was considerably appreciated by the crowd,
as their wheezing breaths and hacking cough 3
amply testified. The City Bank, out of the eye of.
the wind, was a fair success, but the illuminatory
palm was annexed by the offices of the “ Pic-
turesque Atlas” Company, which radiated in elec-
tric splendour driven by special machinery, and
against f he electric beam the wind was absolutely
powerless, df course. Of transparencies there
were many, and it _ didn’t turn in his grave
at the pictorial libels over his‘name, he is made of
stuff stem enough to discover a new AimtrpHa
beyond the regions of actuality and gas. Some of
the old Jubilee “ daubs ” were trotted out, no
doubt under an impression that Queen Victoria
had a hand in the manufacture of this Continent.
One white-skulled spread of ochre and calico, re-
presenting her Maj esty, bore the legend, flanking the
awful caricature of regality, “ Long may she reign;
peace on earth; goodwill to men.’’ Evidently, in
the designer’s opinion, there is an intimate con-
nection between the Queen and the Deity, and
that sovereign-worship is a sure guarantee of a
good harvest in the autumn. The Clubs, being
nearly all on the wrong side, were promptly
squelched by the north-easterly, and represented
in their total dreariness a black frost of a very
decided character. Everywhere Chinese lanterns
tried to look lovely, and beautifully illustrated the
bond of federal union subsisting between Austra-
lia and the Empire of the saffron pup. This pub-
lic recognition of the Yellow Agony is, no doubt,
an act of gratitude to John Chinaman for the
recent advancement of Mandarin Parkes to the
dignity of a Celestial subject. Flags, mainly
also of a Chinese origin, bannerets, &c., fringed
the street and presented the appearance of a string
of dressmaker’s remnants hung out as samples
for patch-work quilts. The display of bunting was
cheap and tawdry, and gave a poor impression
of the resources of the Calico Jemmies’ shops,
which “boss” the glorious Freetrade colony.
The pasteboard and chintz-curtain arches were
too flimsy to sustain a modicum of respect, and
deposited most of their painted paper on the pave-
ments before the affair began to eventuate.
Oxford-street went off in a paroxysm of Centen-
nial fervour and effrondesced in an arch of
withered green-meat, upon which was proudly
printed, “ Oxford-street’s Tribute to the Centen
nial,” but it was like the people of New South
Wales’ tribute to the Parkes Fund—-a multy
failure. On the reverse was another legend,
“ May Oxford-street Flourish.” Judging from
this, we understand that all the rest of Australia
may go to pot, New South Wales may bust up,
Sydney in general may be burned down, and the
streets leading off Oxford-street may sit in sack-
cloth and ashes so long as Oxford-street itself
holds up. Another triumphal signment yearned
after a continuance of “Unity,” while the final
erection of verdancy in this radiant locality bore
the mysterious line, “Long May He Live,” but
who the he was the centenniators neglected to
explain—it surely couldn’t have been the sucking-
pig with the lemon in its mouth on the marble
slab below. A sma’l picture of a bronze-skinned
navigator hung above the motto, and possibly
represented the he. During our Centennial ramble
on the night of the 26th January Oxford-street
was enlivened by the sounds of a hammer, and
through an open door we espied a Centennial
undertaker busily engaged in covering with sable
cloth a Centennial coffin. This is so apt and
lugubrious a practical moral to the whole cele-
bration that we think we will say no more about
the business.
♦
Ike Silver Boom : A Word i» Season.
The following, which we cut from the Journal
of Commerce, a well-conducted, but as yet
obscure Melbourne weekly, is worth chewing
over. The figures on which the Journal’s com-
ments are based are taken from the Broaen Hill
Co.’s balance-sheet. Would it not be as wt 11 for
the shareholders to climb down before the crash
comes:—
The central point of all the recent speculation has been
the Broken Hill Proprietary Comoany. Now, fortunately,
this company, as befits its importance, has just issued in
a handsome manner its balance-sheet, statement of
accounts, and reports of directors and officials for the half-
year ending 30th November, 1887, and we are, therefore,
enabled to obtain some data for our contention that the
prices now being paid are beyond all reason. The extensive
work being done on this proprietary is shown by the fact
that no less than 898 meu are employed, whose wages and
salaries for the six months absorbed £53.014 Bs. 31. During
the half-year 28,800 tons of ore were raised, at a cost
of £1 3s. 7d. per ton. The cost of smelting same was
£2 12a. 4d per ton, or a grots amount, including
£4182 13s. 6d. for depreciation, of £76,303 33 7d This ore
yielded 6550 tons 9;wt 2qrs. 171bs. cf bullion, of which
1,267,699 )Zs. were fine silver, at an average of 44.110z5. to the
ton, and 6511 tons 13cwt. 3qrg, mbs of had. These figures
show an expansion of the yield of silver of more than three
times over the output for the corresponding six months
ending November, 1886 ; but it is noteworthy that during
that period >he average of fine silver to the ton was 83 83, or
very nearly twice the average given b®h« present ore. This
is a point worthy of note, because iv would seem to show
that there is a great falling off in ths richness of the mine.
When, however, we come to the working expenses, we are
positively appalled at the money absorbed. Thus, during
ths six months silver shipments and value of bullion at
mine represent £300.739 17s 61., and yet only £96,000 has
been paid in dividends. The expenditure has been £177,384
16s. 5d.. including wages as previously -tat.ert; freight on
coke, £18,132 17s. 7d ; do. on bullion, £26,456 13a. 61 ; and
expenses floating Blocks 15 and 16 in London, £lBB4 10s.
The net profit for the six months was £l2O 201 53 5d , the
total amount of assets, after about £BOOO had been written
off for depreciation of plant and buildings, being £410,389
16s. 81. The dividends for the last month have been £llos.
per share of £2O, of which £l9 is paid up; or, presuming
that the same amount he paid monthy, £lB per annum
—a good, hut not, as mining properties aie expected to
yield, an extravagant return for the investment; and yet these
said shares have been sold on the market for £290 each, the
return being thus equal to only 6-i pee cent, per annum, while
the value of the mine, in which tnere are 16 000 shares, has
increased to £4.640,000 sterling ! Is there anybody who will
have the courage to aver that there is anything in the in-
trinsic value of this property, as shown by the yield, not for-
getting the great expense in working, or in the dividends, to
justify such a premium being paid for its shares ? It is true,
of course, that there is something—about £33 per share, it is
estimated— to be distributed from the proceeds of the sale of
Blocks 15 and 16 to the British Broken Hill Proprietary Co ,
although on this point the directors are strangely reticent,
debiting the expenses of flotation, but on!y remarking in
their report, “ By this sale the shareholders in this (the
parent) company are entitled to and will receive for every
share held by them five fully paid-up shares in the British
company, lhere will also be receivable a cash bonus for
every share held in this company; but your directors, pend-
ing further and more particular advices from London, are
unable to determine the exact amount thereof." This brief
Hsumi cf the affairs of the chief silver mining company in
the colonies will, we think, thoroughly support the position
we have taken up. It is appirently well managed, is in full
work, and every care seems to have been taken to provide
for depreciation and probable losses, ana yet so great is the
expense of working that only 30s. per month, or 6] per cent,
on the market piice of the stock, is being returned in divi-
dends. There may not be any positive danger in this case;
but what shall we say of ether ventures, for which £lO,OOO
to £20,000 is aßked by promoters, the capital of vi hich has
eageily been subscribed by the public, and the shares run up
tothiee times their par value, yet no work beyond pros-
pecting, or even provisionally securing the ground, has been
done? The aotion of speculators in regard to such ia worse
than folly ; it is almost criminal recklessness, for there is
hardly a tenth of them whose own means would be sufficient
to provide for a collapse, should such happen, and then their
families, creditors, and the community generally would most
assuredly suffer.
-*■
Balaam ail a Feed.
The Centennial Press banquet given in Sydney
Town Hall last week brought to light a new phase
of Parkes’ ignorance. He never reads The
Bulletin. He used to read it, however, or else
some one who was more competent to tackle the
long words read it for him ; but, apparently, he
has changed since then, and endeavours, from a
literary point of view, to keep himself undefiled.
A few years ago a well-known New South Wales
politician, whom Parkes had assisted in raising
to high office, departed from this state of exist-
ence, and The Bulletin stated that among his
papers were found one or more of Parkhs’ pro-
missory notes, which showed that he had accom-
modated the great Hi- Ham with cash advances.
This assertion evoked an indignant denial, and,
as the denial purported to come direct from the
hand of Parkes, we presumed at that time that
he read Ihe Bulletin. Sir Henry’s latest in-
sol .enev schedule, however, showed that the
indebtedness in question Lad existed, even
if no pr. missory notes had btou given,
so it is possible that the “Jesuitical” statement
in ques ion did not emanate from the Man of Jb air,
and that he didn’t read The Bulletin, after all.
The reason of this neglect on his part to gather
useful knowledge deserves to be given in his own
words :
He (Sir Henry) did not intend to go much further on this
track. (A voice: -‘What about The Bulletin ?’) Well,
as someone had interjected the name of a newspaper, he
might as well tell them a law of his life which excluded the
particular paper mentioned from ever coming under his notice
He never saw the paper. He had made up his mind for many
years never to read a paper that once attacked private character.
(Cheers.) This was no vain boast. His life was of more
value to him, his time was of more value to him, and he
would not either waste his life or his time by reading the in-
temperate vapourings of any set of persons who did not
respect the truth. . . It was essential to the well-being of
a free state that they should have a free and thoroughly
independent press.
From these remarks we presume that the cham-
pion Billingsgater of New South Wales is about to
reform and mend his ways. A few years ago he
screamed out to an audience which declined to
wholly accept his views on current politics, that
they were a gathering of “ Thieves, crimps, and
blacklegs”; a few months ago he cursed an in-
offensive political opponent as a “ mole eyed
nonentity,” and another as a “craven-spirited,
poodle-headed, creeping creature.” a “ withered
tarantula,” an object with an “extraordinary
face’’and “spread-eagle whiskers”; he deluged
the Assembly with such choice expressions as
“ liar ” and “ coward,” and steed by unreprovingly
while his obedient followers filled the colony with
such “attack son private character” as it had never
before heard, even in the days when drunken lags
were raging through the streets of Sydney. But
even while he was heaving cuss epithets at the
public, such as the hangman of last century used
to throw at the early convicts, and discharging the
language of the bottomless pit at everyone who
would not bow to his ignorance and insolence, he
never never sank so low as to read The Bulletin.
Even when he went to Bathurst for the purpose
of blasting the reputation of his opponent, Mr.
Suttor, and denounced him from the platform in
the name of all the gods of Brummagem, the in-
nate nobility of bis soul prevented him from beg-
ging or borrowing a paper “ which once attacked
private character.” He admires, it is true, a
“ thoroughly free and independent press,” but the
kind of independent press which he worships is one
which is dragged captive at the chariot-wheels of
Henry Parkes. Very recently that man of many
insolvencies declared with the emphasis for which
he is so famous that he had neither part nor lot
in the infamous Treason Felony Act which for
several years disgraced the Statute-book of New
South Wales, and The Bulletin inquired, in
Addisonian ’'diction, calling foim
either a thief, a crimp, or a black-leg, why, under
such circumstances, he had held office in the
Ministry which enacted that hideous atrocity, and
why the records of the Assembly showed that he
had supported it through all its stages. A a
Parkes never reads The Bulletin it is just pos-
sible that the question escaped his notice, which
may account for the fact that he has never ten-
dered any explanation about this awful discrep-
ancy. But so long as Sir Henry’s own facta
hang together so loosely we would ask him, as a
favour, not to rave too wildly about the “ intem-
perate vapourings of any set of persons who do nob
regard the truth.” In connection with the afore-
said Treason-Felony Act, The Bulletin made a
stupendous effort to extract one truth —only one
—from Parkes, and it is still waiting vainly for
a ieply. The great Hi-Ham has since then
supplied many heavy facts upon a great variety
of subjects, but with regard to the one matter on
which we asked for enlightenment he has kept
strictly dark, and if the perennial supply of vera-
city should ever fail in this office we can only re-
mind him that we are still waiting for the ex-
planation which is so long coming.
Mr. M ‘Millan, of Sydney, Freetrader andM.L. A.,
raises a fresh aspect of the Imperial Federation
question in a communication to the Sydney D.T.
The question has already been argued on many
different bases, buteven on this well-trodden ground
the softgoodsman of York-street has contrived to
strike a new reef :
If we were separated from the mother country, would Ger-
many allow such a large and valuable territory as Western
Australia to remain in the hands of a few millions on this
side of the continent, who have really no claim upon it, and
who have done nothing to develop its great resources ? And
by what right, except that of British discovery and British
occupation, could it possibly be hell? But once let the
British element disappear and all right to its integrity as a
portion tf our inheritance goes.
The question naturally arises at this juncture—
If the Australians who occupy Western Australia,
in so far as it is occupied, have no right to that
territory, what possible right can be put forth by
Englishmen 16,000 miles away, who do not occupy
it at all? Or if “British occupation” in the
shape of about a dozen officials confers a title to
the land why does not Australian occupation by,
say, 30,000 people confer a better title by arith-
metical ratio Hitherto it has been understood
by civilised nations that the inhabitants of a land
had the best claim to be its rulers, but in the new
gospel according to M‘asillan, the West Austra-
lians are a peculiar race who have no right even
to standing room on this earth, and who
in equity ought to be crowded into the sea.
And if the West Australian has no rights as a
human being on his own account and apart from
Britain, we presume the Queenslander and the
Victorian would also sink into mere outcasts
should British protection be withdrawn from
them. There are a good many other points in
Mr. M’Millan’s weird communication, but after
thus defining the Australian colonist as a land-
less pariah, the rest of the softgoodsman’s argu-
ments sink into insignificance.
♦
The Earl of Carnarvon has been making a Cen-
tennial ass of himself, and even the Sydney
Morning Herald is compelled to admit this anti-
imperial fact. While allowing that the sleepy
old nobleman “was very happy in the remarks
he made to show that England as well as Austra-
lia has an interest in these celebrations,” the
Hunter-street megatherium is careful to draw the
line of elastic veracity somewhere between Sirius
and eternity. Thus the Herald :
When Lord Carnarvon says, on behalf of the mother-
country, that her children in New South Wales are as dear
to her as those who people the British Ides, the thought that
he is carried away by enthusiasm necessarily intrudes.
No, dear though antiquated sibyl of paleozoic
platitudes, it is not a word ending in “ asm ” bub
“ ism ” by which the gentleman is carried away,
and it ia that word so precious to your silt-
deposited, post-pricary, fos-ilised old heart—lm-
perialism. When further along in the same par.
you say that Australia is “cared for at home,”
there is, as you pithily put it, “no doubt” about
it either. We will go to a greater extent in our
agreement with you. You say, “It is simply a
question of degree.” Bight, ancestress of the
Devonian mammoth and grandmother of An-
tiquity, “it is simply a question of degree.” Just
in proportion as we become valuable to Great
Britain—or to speak more correctly, the English
holders of Australian stock —so also in exactly
similar proportion shall we be “ cared for at
home.” Our troubles just arrive from that
“ care.” We should care less if England didn’t
“ care ” for us so much, and you cm lay your
venerable old boots on that, granny!
♦
Says the cultured S.M. Herald, in a leading
article :
Anything that is coarse or brutal would shock the feelings
of the Australian people as quickly as it would the people of
any other part cf the world. Scenes that have been per-
mitted in America, or on the Continent of Europe, would
net be tolerated here.
This heavy utterance comes well from the stolid
organ of that Legislative Council which is the
hereditary upholder of the triangles and the cat!
If “ America or the Continent of Europe” could
see into a Sydney gaol-yard when some hapless
madman is being flayed alive on the authority nob
of a judge and jury, but of an irritable beak who
has been drunk at the club until four o’clock in the
morning of the day upon which he sits in majesty
to vindicate the convict traditions of New South
Wales, they would regard the Australian people
who suffer this to be —for the people can abolish
the cat and the triaßgles if they will —ss lower
than Bosjesmen and more brutal than brutes.
4_
For a ilorg time the existence of leprosy in
Europe has been carefully hidden from the outside
public, but at last it has been placed beyond
doubt that the loathsome Chinaman has sent this
speciality of his into almost every country, from
the Urals to the Atlantic. The great French
physician, Dr. Besmer, has also proved that the
disease spreads by contagion—in fact, it is slowly
spreading wherever it has gained a foothold.
Speaking of the Mongol pestilence and the disease
which fellows these unclean aliens like a shadow
wherever they tread, a London paper says :
They have carried it to California, New Brunswick, the
Cape of Good Hope, and the Sandwich Islands, where it was
previously unknown ; and either they have brought it into
Europe themselves, or it has been brought by Europeans
who have been in contact with them. All the specialists in
Bkin disease in Paris are said to have lepers among their
patients—soldiers, sailors, merchants, sisters of charity, mis-
sionaries, and others. Epidemics of leprosy have broken out
in more than one of the provinces of Spain, the disease hav-
ing been brought home by sailors. There are lepers in the
hospitals of London, Dublin, and Glasgow; and Archdeacon
Wright mentions, on authority he does not doubt, that a
week or two ago there was a case of leprosy in an English
village.
apparently, the disease has gained a stronger
hold in the dark places of Europe than in Aus-
tralia, but some day the presence of the still-
to'crated John will result in an epidemic in these
colonies, and when the Australians see lepers in
the Church and the Legislature and lepers prac-
tising at the Bar and serving drinks in the public-
houses they may possibly wake up to realise the
full dimensions of their own stupendous folly.


BISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
Besides these attempted escapes by land
and sea, the oonvicts tried to break their fetters
by rebellion. Goaded to desperation as they were
by the brutality of their gaolers, and with the
utter hopelessness of their abandonment perpetu-
ally staring them in the face, it was but natural
that convict flesh and blood should mutiny.
Isolated cases of assigned servants rising against
their mas:ers are numerous. In a moment of
natural self assertion a convict might itrike his
master or overseer. It would not be long before
he found himself triced up to the triangles, and
tortured until the capricious vengeance of his vic-
tim was entirely glutted. He would be cut down
with murder in his heart, and it would not be
long before the body of his tyrant would be found
lying about, while a new bushranger would take
to the bush. Instances of the kind might be mul-
tiplied endlessly.
* * *
Tne first mention of an organised move-
ment among the convicts was in 1796, They
began to complain with fastidious particularity
that the record of their conviotion and sentence
had not been brought out with them. They
clamoured for this luxurious attention, as if it
mattered to their gaolers whether they carried
their chains for five or fifty years. However, as we
have seen, the matter received attention at home,
on the Governor’s representations. In 1800,
Governor King began to complain of the Irish
political prisoners. They appear to have objected
to the treatment the thieves and felons were sub-
jected to. King complained to the home authori-
ties of ‘ 1 the restless disposition of these people,
which has not a little been aggravated by the
artifices ol Harold, the priest.” There appsars to
have been absolutely no other foundation for the
reported conspiracy than is found in the following
from Barrington’s history :— ‘ ‘ A convict who had,
with great earnestness, propagated a report that
many pikes had been secretly made, and, to pre-
vent detection, sunk in a well-known part of the
harbour, was examined. This fellow, on being
examined by the magistrates, confessed he knew
nothing of what he had stated, and said he was
intoxicated at the time. For this he was severely
punished.” Harold, the priest, was examined,
but “ nothing appeared to criminate him.” A
general search was made among the persons sus-
pected, in all parts of the colony at the same time ;
“ the examination took place on the loth, but
nothing was discovered that could furnish
the smallest evidence of the reported ciimes.”
But this did not prevent wholesale flog-
gings taking place in all directions to ex-
tract information. Under the influence of
abject terror, some soared wretches invented
stories, but they contradioted each other and were
flogged for their pains, while others were sent to
Norfolk Island without trial, and, here, again, it is
strange to note how our history repeats itself.
Since the introduction of Responsible Government
we have seen a New South Wales Premier excite
a similar scare, and call the dead from the grave
—in the shape of the Kiama Ghost —to prove
his slanders on a large section of the com-
munity. Our political leaders have studied
their politics, as they have their laws, in the old
convict reoords of the semi-savage and benighted
past.
* # *
Thomas Holt, whom we have so often
quoted, was one of the suspects on this occasion.
He was taken oub of bed after midnight, and
brought from his place at Brush Farm to the gaol
in Sydney. He gives a picture of the gaoler :
“Mr. Daniel McKay, a person whose acquaint-
ance I did not covet, for he had been a transport
convicted of picking pockets. We do not attach
much mildness of character to the turnkey of a
gaol. It sometimes happens that a petty larceny
rascal, or even a felon, who has not been steeped
in the lowest dregs of villainy, may be so far re-
formed as to be thought worthy of being one of
the many-headed dogs of a country gaol; a kind
of deputy devil, with eminent qualities as a tor-
mentor ; suoh a man, in comparison to Daniel
M’Kay, would have been thought worthy to be
made a member of a colonial Parliament, had
such a thing existed, or a justice of the peace, or
a judge.” The mantle of grim prophecy seems to
have fallen unawares on Mr. Holt. “ On my beiDg
handed over to his keeping the following ensue i :
“ ‘ Weel, Master General Hoult, and you're wel-
come ; I’ll be teaching you a new exercise, for I
hae nae doot but ye’ll be hangit. and I wish ye
may, for weel ye deserve it.’
‘ ‘ I asked him if there was any news; he
answered, with a sneer, ‘ Oh, yes ; there be some
foo of your Irlshers to be hangit presently.’
This was very consoling, but Holt had enough
influence to save him, by the merest accident,
from being hanged.
* * *
B ut the “ Rebellion of 1804, ’ a 3 it is grandilo
quently termed by the fantastic creatures who call
themselves the historians cf Australia, was the
chief Jiasco of this kind. A great many convicts
were employed in the slave-gangs about Castle
Hill, near Parramatta, and reports used to come
in that mischief was intended. Holt describe i
what was taking place, and he had every oppor
tunity of observing, as he exercised authori y in
the immediate neighbourhood. “ The lower
people,” he says, ‘convicts and others, boh
English and Irish, seeing tneir torment increasing
in this most ill-managed colony, conceived the
opinion that they could overpower the army, pos
sess themselves of the settlement, and eventually
make their escape from it. Where they were to
go did not enter into the contemplation of these
poor wretches, who fancied, at all events, they
could not be worse off than they were already.
Their numbers were contemptible, and their
means still more so; therefore, they must as
suredly fail and be hanged. I told them ” - fin re
sponse to solicitations to join them]—“l would
have nothing to do with the business, and if such
a scheme should be pub into execution, I would
act on the side of the Government. Had I no
wife or children, and been disposed to take the
lead on this occasion, I could have made a short
job of it. The military were so careless and lax
in their discipline, that anyone of skill could have
formed a plan to surprise them, and nflght havo
taken magazine, army, and all in an hour.”
* * •
Informers and false swearers abounded in
the sstclement, and the officials soon neard of this
wild plot. When the convicts broke oub on
March 4, the Governor issued this —
“ Proclamation !
“ Whereas, a number of labouring convicts of
Castle Hill another part of this dtstrlot have
assembled, and, in a rebellious and daring
manner, have attacked and robbed several of His
Majesty’s peacßable and loyal subjects of their
property and arms, and proceeded therewith to
great acts of outrages which the preservation of
the lives and property of his Majesty's liege sub-
jects demand an immediate stop being put to by
the moat efficient mean 3 (sic).
“ I do, therefore, proolaim the districts of Parra-
matta, Castle Hill, Toongabbee, Prospect, Seven
and Baulkham Hills, the Hawkesbury, and the
Nepean to be in a
STATE OF REBELLION,
and do establish Martial Law throughout those
districts.” Then Major Johnstone set out with 40
soldiers and came up with the rebels at about
half-past 10 next morning. It is amusing to read
the various accounts of what took place. Says Major
Johnstone : “I rode up to them, accompanied by
one trooper (the emphasis is his own), and remon-
strated with them on the unpropriety of their
conduct, and desired them to surrender, which
they peremptorily refused. I went up a second
time with a trooper, and desired to speak with
their two leaders, who came up to ns, when we
forcibly drove them in to the detachments with
pistols at their heads ; the rest, to the number of
250, dispersed in every direction, and we have
been under the necessity of killing nine and
wounding a great many, the number we cannot
ascertain.” Toe Major, it will be seen, was a
military strategist of a high order. He just
hoisted out a flag of truce, as it were, deluaefl
two confiding wretches into trusting him, and
then drove them into the detachment with pistols
at their heads ! But there are other stories.
* • *
Holt heard frSn Mr. Cox another account.
The Major went up to Cunninghame, the leader,
and told him that if he had any real grievance he
would endeavour to get it redressed. “ Cunning-
hame advanced, took off his hat, and with it in
one hand and a sword in the other, said, ‘ Death
or liberty !' Johnstone made no attempt to molest
him, but Lay cock, who stood 6 feet 6 inches, a
quartermaster in his corps, came up and, with one
blow, killed Cunninghame on the spot. On this
the whole of ths mob took to i heir heels, and
many were shot in the pursuit. ’ This account
justifies the memory of the commanding officer so
far as to show that he t&ok shelter behind his big
quarter-master, and only emerged in time to give
the order to fire on a huddled crowd of panic-
stricken men. There are one or two other ver-
sions, but they differ in no important particular.
* * *
It was, doubtless, magnificent sport chasing
the flying rebels, of whom so many wtre wounded
that the Major did not take the trouble to count
them up. A good many got away, but the
soldiers succeeded in bagging a fairly good
catch. But if the chase was sport, aad the
murder of flying men a delight and a ioy,
the real pleasure was tasted when the business
was over. When the pursuit was ended
those who were caught were brought before a
Court Martial. Under ordinary circumstances
this term associates itself in the mind with an as-
sembly of officers and gentlemen ; but it must be
borne in mind that the present use of the teim
refers to a herd of gaolers and tradesmen wearing
the King’s uniform by accident. “It was arranged
that lots should be drawn from a hat,” for the
Court Martial found them all guilty, and the
soldiers could scarcely haDg everybody ; “ and
that every third man whose name was drawn,
should be hanged. Many fine young men were
strung up like dogs, but the arrival of the
Governor put a stop to this extraordinary pro-
ceeding. Among those hanged, there was a
nephew of the Surgeon-general, Mr. Jamieson,
but this was kept, as far as it could bs; a profound
secret.” This settled the fate of the Rebellion of
1801.
The Press Centennial Banquet.
“Hans Breitmann gife a barty,” and Alfred
Bennett, ambitious to entwine bis name with
that of the illustrious Deutscher, has recently given
a square Centennial feed to the children of sin in
Australia, who live by concocting paragraphs and
chronicling tram-accidents. It was a good
thought on the part of the proprietors of the
Evening News and Gum and Downtree Jernil
to secure a radical ad., and probably owed its
glittering conception to the massive brain cf
Henniker Heaton, the representativeo! Market-
street, Sydney, in the British House of Commons.
The Australian Press rolled up with all its double-
leaded dullne? o to get an inspiration for e leader
or the Centenary from Bennett’s fiz, and the
affair went off with the usual bilious buttering of
the real old marmalade/ , post-prandial descrip-
tion. We never had a very exalted opinion of
the brilliancy of the country Press of Australia.
We have discovered no fresh reason for the
immediate manufacture of a new brand of senti-
ment in this connection. The ripe and crusty
organs of Capital were not there. The
Melbourne Age and Argus, the Sydney
Morning Herald and Daily Telegraph kept
studiously in the gloom of their own folding-
presses. The Bennetts had committed the un-
pardonable sin of hitting on a splendid notion for
advertising their prints. The self-styled leaders
of the Press in Melbourne and £ ydney v ere green
with jealousy at the idea having escaped them.
Alfred deserves credit for his happy thought.
It was a bold strode for a big ad. He deserves
what he managed to secure—and he deserves no
more. There is no jealousy about us. We are
not small enough to grudge Alfred Bennett
the benefit of his enterprise, bo we went. The
presence of Dr. Garran, one of the oldest and
ablest of Australian pressmen, lent a dignity to
the proceedings from which the absence of repre-
sentatives of the wealthy organs of noodledum
could in no way detract, fcir Henry Parkes
was very much there. The newly-created Grand
Commander of St. Muckall and St. Gorge makes
a blank in space wherever he is not. In the
gifted language of a Fouth Australian scribe, Sir
Henry had been “ selected ” by Alfred to pro-
pose the toast of the evening. “Selected”
is good. The toast of the evening was
“The Press,” and Sir Henry was “selected”
to propose it, probably with a view to
the eternal unfitness of things. Perhaps, too
Alfred considered it a good move to concil ate
the man who kept the gag so tightly on the mouth
of Minister for Works Sutherland, the Father
Christmas of the political aspirations of the News.
Anyhow, Parkes proposed the Press, and got an
opportunity, which he certainly didn’t throw
away, of insulting the Press a'l round. He in-
sulted his host by buttering the S.M. Herald.
a hat paper was unrepresented at the feed, no
doubt on the same principle that Parkes slanged
Dalley over the Soudan fizzle —namely, bee tuse
it was thought of by somebody else. Then
Parkes insulted the Herald. It was too care-
ful. It steered too far away from the meshes of
the libel law. This was a double-edged gibe.
The Premier sneered at a paper which respected
the laws his own Government imposed on a trust-
ing nation. He sneered also at the laws them-
selves and at the Government that manufactured
them. Like the hocus-pocus conjurers who terrify
a crowd with a piece of legerdemain, he put hia
tongue in his cheek and gave a wink that
signified the fire was only painted flame,
and the sword was one of pewter. Parkes
did not sneer at The Bulletin for steer-
ing clear of the law of libel. Our policy is
bounded on the North by the eternal truth, on the
South by the libel law, but its expansion Bast and
West does not recognise the compass. Then
Parkes gathered up h'.s oratorical shirts and
“laid” for the Sydney D.T. He called it a paper
which occasionally published very Opportune
articles —the organ of “Opportunism.” The
Bulletin is never opportune, and, therefore, not
liked by the white-maned chief. He further in-
sulted the D.T. When it strayed into the border-
lands of sanity and published aught against the
denouncer of Milburn Creek, it was no longer “ a
free and hindependent paper. ’ Yes, oh, D.T.,
this is the verdict of your fetich ! The most
withering sarcasm he reserved for the paper
owned by his host. When Parkes desires to
speak the brutal truth to suit his own purpose no
considerations of common courtesy restrain him.
He not inaptly described the Evening News
as a paper with a large circulation. By
this we presume he meant a circulation
which never reaches its brain. Possibly
the gibe was the intenser in its bitterness as the
speaker reflected that the Empire of erstwhile
days never enjoyed such a circulation. That
ancient journal was hydrocephalous from its birth,
and died from water on the brain. Next Sir
Henry gratuitously informed them what a great
paper the Empire was, and, amidst interruptions
of “Eurasian! Eurasian! - ’ told of his early
struggles with compositors, who subsequently en-
joyed the distinction of having their names in-
scribed upon a famous politician’s insolvency
schedule. After Sir Henry had resumed his seat,
a weary, dreary cart-load of journalistic flap-
doodle was shot out at his feet, until, in the
sickening whirligig of time, the host of the even-
ing took the floor. Mr. Bennett is greater in a
cartoon than as a speaker. He jerked out his
clumsy, bucolic rhetoric in spasmodic gasps of
bad grammar, and, like the giftsd scribes who had
spoken before him, slaughtered the English lan-
guage in a style which would have given satisfac-
tion to the soul of a Hottentot trying to express
himself in Anglo-Saxon. Alfred said that he had
given the feed, and he thought that the guests
ought to provide the speeches. Right! He re-
cognised that his mission in life was rather to
provide for a man’s gizzard, and leave to others the
task of providing for his brains. Then he floun-
dered along on the old Parkesian strain, and de-
nounced the compositor. The compo.’s days were
numbered. He looked forward to the time when
type should be set by a maohine. A South Aus-
tralian man, who spoke afterwards, suggested
the heresy that a machine might be invented to
own a paper. Just here we would interject that
a machine has been invented for owning a paper.
♦
Sir Henry Parkes, G.C.M.G.—we hope we have
not dropped a letter here, but it is one of those
things one cannot be sure about—appended his
gray-headed signature the other day to a minute
relating to the retirement of Civil Servants,
which laid down as an important principle the
axiom “ that the public service would be
strengthened by the retirement of officers over (50
years of age.” It was further determined in said
minute to suggest to such officers that they had
better vamoose the Civil Service ranch
while there was marrow enough in their
antiquated spindleshanks to support them
en route to their respective firesides, and the
privacy of a family gruel-basin. This is probably
a step in the right direction. We say probably,
because Parks s himself is 72 years of age, and,
though filling the highest position in the Civil
Service of his country, he has long .. passed that
age when he remembered to be civil without being
“ tipped” for it in the shape of a or
something. The question very naturally arises if
any man over 60 is not fit to lick a stamp, play
with red-tape, eat sandwiches over an office-
drawer, read the daily paper, talk about the
winner of the Cup, draw caricatures of the
Premier on a blotting-pad, yawn, purl his
moustache, remark that it’s “deuced slow,
you know,” and “it’s blinded hot,” and “I
wonder how bloom, g long it will be before
it’s four o clock,” is he fit to rule a great, a pros-
perous, and an enl'ghtened country under the
auspices of a resplendent ring of Freetrade huck-
sters and Calico Jemmies? Is he ? Parkes is kind
enough to remove these ancient Civil Service
mashers before they become uncivil servants,
before they shuffle off this mortal coil, and wander
round discharging their onerous duties with their
coffins on their backs, but why doesn’t he
remove himself ? Is it because there is
no retiring allowance, or is it because
there is nobody waiting for an “ advance ” ? It’s
all very well to fay there is nobody able to take
up the position if Parkes were to vacate it. That
is a matter of purely private opinion. Ask any of
the aspirants for the Premiership, and not one of
them will have a doubt about the matter. It
must be on account of that absence of a pension.
And, surely, should this be the true cause, after
all that Parkes has done to consolidate the party
of good Government and Freetrade, his numerous
admirers, the individuals whom his policy has
benefited and a generous and grateful nation,
would plank the money. Perhaps that is just what
Parkes is afraid of, that they would plank the
Dibbs, and so he labours on.
—♦
W hen the Lewis Island crofters who went deer-
stalking were hauled before the judicial adversary
in Edinburgh, that individual, upon charging an
obedient-looking and apparently docile jury, said
that a verdict in favour of the accused would sap
the very foundation-stones and loosen the primary
cement of society, and the entire glittering fabric
would totter down about their law-abiding and
respectable ears, so they had better have a care,
and consider well what they were about. The
jury, feeling very much overburdened with the
awful weight of the existing condition of things
upon their shoulders, retired to think over the
spectacle of a tottering world and a chaosised
society, and wondered how it would look. Some
innovators, who had never had too much to eat,
thought that society wandering around promiscu-
ously, with its heels in the air and its coat on
hind-side before, would be rather funny than
otherwise, and, moved by this humourous notion of
an inverted aspect of everything, brought in a
verdict in favour of the venison-raiding accused.
Nothing, however, happened, and society’s
foundation doesn’t appear to be sapped worth a
red cent, and if there are twelve. wretched
humourists in the world they live in Edinburgh,
and refuse to be comforted.
Premier Parkes at a dinner supported by
Speaker Groom. What a spectacle for the gods !
It is almost as suggestive as Garrett in a Cabinet
supported by Salomons.
CORRESPONDENCE
Viator (Brisbane): Glad to receive farther
pars, from you.. . .Sizarac draws our attention
to the fact that the following verse was omitted from the
" Battle Hymn of the Republic," published in the CenteD.
nial Bulletin:—
“ I have read a fiery Gospel, writ in burnished rows of steel,
As ye deal with my contemners so with you my grace shall
deal,
Let the Hero born of Woman crush the terpent with his
heel;
For God is marching on.”
.... A.H. (Manly): Rather tco small and thin and weak....
H.A. (Jerilderie): Don’t get excited. The Bulletin
supports no creed whatever, and if it did lose sight of the
doings of some one-horse priest in a one-horse town, you
needn't revolve in your orbit at such a fearful rate about it.
We haven’t time or space to sit on every evil-doer. Don’t
part with your hair. We have to miss one now and then.
Be calm... .Australia (Bathurst): Your pen and ink sketches
are rather good in places. The horse's tail, for instance, is
admirably done... .H.G. (Bairnsdale, Yic.): We should say
that the paper in question has simply cadged the test stories
out of your contributions and published them in a slightly
altered form in order to get your work without payment.
There is such a thing as journalistic burglary, especially in
the office in question... .A. Ockelford (Brisbine): The
Bulletin has always advocated Protection and Laud
Nationalisation as paits of the same great programme, and
your extensive letter points the same way—only you don’t
know it. Freetrade, as you show, is reducing England to
poverty, while the system of private property in land, by
which the whole country is divided among a handful of men,
many of whom derive their holdings from ancestors who
paid not one cent for their ownership, intensifies the evil.
The total wealth of the country has suffered a tremendous
falling-off for want of seasonable Protection, and, as the
landlord bears hardly any share in the loss, it all falls on the
poorest cf the nation, and mak s them ten times poorer still.
It is true that Henry George is a Freetrader. But his Free,
trade is a corollary of his Land Nationalisation scheme....
Subscribers (Culcairn): The yarn isi’t bad, but as exactly
the same thing is happening every hot day, it isn’t a particu-
larly fresh item by any means....J. Ward: The Newtown
electors must indeed have sunk low if they consent to ac-
cept as their representative the political godson of Mr.
Francis Abigail, director of a pawnshop which charges a
workman 250 per cent, for a loan on his horse and cart...,
Walter Boughey : As to Parkes’ statement that he never
reads The Bulletin because it attacks private character,
we may remark that this expression of tender regard for
the sanctity of private character comes with excellent grace
from a man to whom a jury cf his fellow-countrymen on
two occasions refused to give that vindication they would
have accorded to any honest citizen. [Many communica-
tions unavoidably held over ]
Herr Most, the red-whiskered Anarchist of
America for whom personally we care not a brass
farthing and at whose execution we should notpro-
bably shed a single tear, applied recently for letters
of naturalisation in the United States. He wanted
to be a Yankee citizen, and, in our humble opinion,
bad as he most undoubtedly is, he is good enough
for the situation In answer to a question as to
whether he would obey the laws, he replie d that
he would obey all go: d laws, but that he would
resist bad laws by force. The application for
papers was refused, and Herr Most went home
to supper an outlawed German invader instead of
a Yankee white-washed citizen. But the authori-
ties of the white starred and red-striped Republic,
by refusing the citizenship to Most on these
grounds, stultified themselves. In the first, place,
by allowing Most’s objection, they admitted that
“ bad laws” were amongst the laws of the Union.
In the second place, by refusing to admit his right
to resist “ bad laws” by force, they deprive them-
selves of any justification in regard to their own
armed resistance to the “bad laws” of Eng-
land, whei), as colonists, they threw the taxed tea
into Boston Harbour, and Washington un-
sheathed his sword against bis dear old “ mother
country. ” For Most we are not outrageou sly s irry.
We are, however, very much cut up on account of
the affr ontthat Logic has received, and we consider
that every American should endeavour to make
his peace with that outraged defy by a prayerful
syllogism put up night and morning, with a devo-
tional undistributed middle sung to a psalm-tune
at dinner-time. Had we been the American
authorities we should have admitted Most to
citizenship cheerfully, and just as cheerfully
hanged him if ha broke any of our vital laws on
the ground that they were a'l good, and that lie
was a bad judge of law.
The S.M. Heraid toots the bugle of military re-
sponsibility, and gaily calls Australia to the fray.
Admitting, somewhat regretfully, that while
Great Britain has been engaged in little wars or
big wars Australia has, for one hundred “long,
beery years,” been steeped in ignoble and in-
glorious peace, it soothingly reminds that miser-
able and mutton-headed Continent that the con-
tinuance of such a state of affairs is hardly to be
expected much longer, and certainly not in a cen-
tury to come, by which time, probably, the
Herald will be gathered to its fathers, and will
be warbling double-leided leadeis to an empyreal
bas3-drum on the succulent slopes of the glad For-
evermore. The dear old lady soporiflcally assures
Australia that this is a world of counterpoise and
compensation, aLd if it should be the fate of Aus-
tralia. during the century upon which it is now
entering, to become the scene of war the “ evn
will not be unmixed with good.” Dearly beloved,
listen to your grandmother
There are so trie lessons which can only b 9 learned through
sacrifice and suffering. If war should come upon us, we can-
not doubt as to the ultimate result. We should incur * o ' B
and privation. The hearts of many would he made to bleeu-
But the people—the nation, shall we say -—would enurgr
strengthened, sobered, possibly purified, by a trial wnicjj
brought it face to face with the sterner realities of natiora*
life.
Great heavens! think of that! It is too muoi 1
joy for the meritle6s Australia. Let us go to war
at once, we want “ sobering ” badly after thi&
long Centennial drunk, and perhaps, too, Park*®
might leave his white mane on the battlelield o-
glory, and then would the cup of our ecstasy be
filled. •
The Bulletin hears, on excellent an-
thority, that the hundreds of phe-sants, t a f‘
fridges, and such things, also the English f ,9D *
consumed at the Centennial gorge, were cab*®
for to England by the Parkes Government.
somebody move in tho N.S.W. Assembly
copy of that cablegram ?


SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal—" Robinson Crusoe " ............ ~D. 14.
Criterion Theatre.—" Forty Thieve 5"..........- ■■
TCSR Majesty’s Theatre —"ln The Ranks"— - ■■
at.hambiia Music Hall— Sacred Concert .......... «
Alhambra Music Haul— Minstrelsy —— - ■■
ACADEMY OF Music—Minstrelsy.,
“ The Life and Death of Captain Cook,”
a drama which purports to reveal the mortal career
of the early navigator and the circumstances
which led to him winding up his business at an
early age and retiring among the golden harpists,
has been put on at Sydney Gaiety by way of cele-
brating the Centenary. It is a sorrowful show in
many respects, and worthy of the occasion. We
were never personally acquainted with Cook, but
we are prepared to Bwear that unless he was a
much larger ass than the world takes him for he
never spouted all the copy-book precepts which
have been crowded into the proceedings at the
Gaiety. No less than three times in one scene he
says that “a time will come," and in the next
scene he strikes another attitude and says twice
that “ the time has come.” People don’t go on
like that in real life, and the author might do
well to make a note of it. But while that parb of
the drama which is Cook is weak enough, the
part which is not Cook is worse still. There
wasn’t near enough Cook to fill up the five acts
and the prolcgue, and so the story is padded out
with the old, burning, extensive gag about the
wicked squire with two or more wives, which was
first invented by some literary clam fitlr d with in-
comparable rot a thousand years ago. In the
opinion of a certain class of dramatists, a play
without a wicked squire is sadder than home
without a mother, though why the unprin-
cipled automaton should always have married
a second-rate girl in early life and then
deserted her in London and started out on a
career of bigamy, with a view to blighting the
prospects of another girl who is in love with a
good young man of humble birth, which latter
the squire endeavours to destroy through the
malign agency of a ruffian whose solitary
suspender is held on to his pants by a long nail,
and who comes up behind the good young man
while he is musing on front of his mother’s grave,
that lady having died while he was away, is an
unwholesome question in which we have never
cared to enter. This kind of drama would col-
lapse utterly if the nail which holds up the
assassin’s solitary snspender chanced to come
away just when he was crawling up behind the
hero who is musing beside his mother’s grave, as
that circumstance would make him fall over his
own pants, and the nois3 of his downfall would
make the benevolent character of the story turn
roond and seize him by the hair, and then he
would confess all, and the hero would go away
and explain the whole affair to the girl, and at
this crisis lhe wicked squire’s deserted wife
would appear round the corner on her return
from London, and everything would be cleared
up. If the men who write such dramas as
“ Captain Cook ” wou d study this aspect of the
case and sew some buttons on the only reliable
garment of the first murderer, their work
would rest on a much more secure
basis thaD it does at present. The long-
drawn out sorrow of Co ak is relieved a lot, how-
ever, by the acting. Mr. Dampier as Ben Rattlin
keeps up his reputation as the beso and most
versatile of Australian actors. No matter
whether he plays Mephistopheles, Hamlet, or Mao-
beth, or whether he represents a battered sailor or
a hungry tramp full of strange oaths and gin, he
is always a success and white hia representation
of the magnificent demon in “Faust” is known
as one of tte finest on the Austiallan stage he is
equally at home in metod ama, in which depart-
ment he has saved many a misguided author
from the effects of his own dark and dreadsome
drivel. Captain Cook himself is ably held np by
Mr. Baothman, and Miss Lily Dampier makes a
good show in the part of a saddening heroine.
Some remarks regarding the other characters,
who have the misfortune to be in this piece, are
regretfully held over till next week,
#* # #
The “ Forty Thieves ” were put on the
stage at Sydney Cxi'eiion on Sa'uiday night, but
when the one who represents thi 3 paper went up
to view the proceedings of the other 39 behind
the footlights he was informed that no seats had
been reserved fer the press, and that the taber-
nacle was full up. Possibly the management
thought their show was woith standing on alter-
nate legs all the eveningtj see, butTiie Bulletjx
critic has already made the acquaintance of more
thieves than would fill the whole Cr.terion, and
the prospect cf beirg introduc d to 40 more did
not seem worth the trouble. Consequently, his
knowledge of thieves is no more extensive this
week than it was last.
## * *
At Sydney Royal the burning pantomime
fllckf rs out next Friday, and on Saturday a season
of comic opera will commence, beginning with the
evergreen “Mik* da” Miss Leonora Braham
makes her fiis, appearance as Yum Van ; Miss
Maggie Moora will do Katisba, though after a
long experience of Alice Barnett we fear she will
hardly look big enough for the part, and the other
two little maids from school will be upheld by
Misses Co’.borne-Baber and Aggie Kelton. These
two ladies are always well received, and as there
doesn’t seem to be any reatonable chant e at pre-
sent of swopping the pair of them for Nellie
Stewart, Sydney will make them welcome in their
new parts. At Her Majesty’s “In the Ranks” is
still rolling on, and the Federal Minstrels at the
Academy are doing good business, and will
probably do better era long, as Willie Warner,
the most genuine humorist we have met for many
A year—we hope, for his own sake, that he is a
little more refined than of yore-is about to be
added to the list of attractions,
** * #
The national event of Saturday night was
Nellie Stewart’s reappearance at Melbourne
Prinoess’s, where the etheral Ellen — why prevari-
cate ? -filled an almighty push with a vague sense
of emptiness in an unknown void. Weighed In a
scale of exaggerated expectation the revived
“Dorothy” teemed more wanting than it might
have been, if the Triumvirate hadn t courted
odious comparisons by improving baokwards on
the original cast, and as all interest centred in
the star she was debited with shortcomings not
her own, by the almost unanimous verdiob of
indiscrlminating dudes. Under the best of con-
ditions Miss Nellie Stewart could never knock ’em
to pulp in the part selected for her second
ooming. Her fasoioating artificiality befits the
mock-rural maidens of Gilbert the cynic, but
lends itself not to the rustio breezy comedy of
“ Dorothy.” A trip to Europe has left Nellie’s
style just where it was before, while adding
volume and compass to the witchery of her sweet
Voice. Over anxiety to show her new powers to
the best advantage gave the sweet voice a hard
metallic ring on Saturday night, in which respect
Several of the company nobly followed suit. But
unless she proves to have cultivated sound at the
expense of melody, Miss Stewart is likely to be-
come a better favourite than ever—in future
operas. In appearance, she is like a goddess re-
freshed with nectar and foreign travel, and the
sweetest of dimples still nestles coyly in her right
cheek. As above hinted, the new portion of the
cast is badly suited to the work. Voice has been
considered before acting ability although
“ Dorothy ” is a comedy rather than an opera—
and one accredited singer, Mr. Federioi, is war-
bling like a raven these last few weeks. Miss
Barnett and little Elton renew their triumphs in
the low comedy department, the latter getting a
reception that is very seldom heard in an
Australian theatre.
*# # *
A towzled-headed audience filled Mel-
bourne Opera House to see Professor Kennedy, a
mesmerist of Amurrikan extraction, test the
credulity of a young and rising country. The
Professor collected an impecunious-looklDg crowd
of subjects on the stage, and chucked a magic
spell at them, after which they played the fool
until everybody felt sick with laughing. Not one
gleam of genuineness lighted np the hollow farce
from first to last; the leading subjects looked as if
they were “ readied” for the occasion, and an in-
vestigating council of three was under the presi-
dency of Victor, ze great wrestler. If Kennedy can
mesmerise any money into his show far more than
a week, he must be a tarnation smarter Yank
than was apparent at his debiit. The Royal pan
tomime comes to an un-
honoured end this week.
Mr. Saint Manr opens a
comedy season at the
Alexandra on Saturday.
Maocabe is begonelng
dull care at the Athe-
r team, and many other
shows keep as usual.
Miss Essie Jenyns was
billed for the Bijou on
Monday, with Mr. Hollo-
way as the slender lovt ■
worn Romeo. We will
discourse aboubthem next
week.
* * *
At the Bondi Aquar-
ium (Sydney) another
mounted sword contest is
announce! between the
new champion smlter,
Donovan, and a military
man named Meat. His
Christian name is not
Sausage, as might be er-
roneously supposed. The
proceedings will close
with a corroboree The
European circus is run-
ning a great and prosper-
ous career in Belmore
Park, and all colonists
who pan out on circuses
are invited to attend. The
Coogee Aquarium has got
another circus as one of
its attractions. Sara
Bernhardt is in mourning
on account of her pet
tiger, which has pegged
out from its earthly
lair and gone to soare
the angels. The people
of the hotel where she
resides, however, do nob
mourn but rejoice with
an exceeding great joy. In
the old limes, when the
boy knocked at the door
in the morning with
Sarah’s shaving water it
was a toss up whether
the tiger didn’t came out
and eat him. The S.M,
Herald says that Charles
Warner’s “ coupeau,"
wl h a small “ c,” in
“Drink,” was a terribly realistic performance.
Evidently the lunch editor and the foreigner who
keeps his eye on the Hottentot and other out’an-
dish quotations were both out when that was
piinted. Alfred Cellier say she went about with
“ Dorothy” under his arm for quite a long time
before he got a show for it The mu do is
“Nell Gwynue” over again. Amy Sherwin’s
father died the other day. When Mrs. Brown-
Potter's ftiends met her on board the steamer at
New York, she received them with a litt'e laugh,
and the remark, “ I’m an actress now.” It was
the first they had heard of it, probably. Mrs.
Langtry has set up a p?t alligator in opposition to
Sarah t ernhardt’s dead tiger. The animal was
only six inches long a few weeks ago, ba'f of that
being month, but, under the caresses of his mu -
tress, he has grown to a length of 14 inches, of
which six consist of jaw. He crawls all over the
drawing-room, and hangs on to visiterj. M'.
Fred Laye, whose connection with the Brough-
Boucicault company was abruptly severed, sailed
for England last week. Which reminds us:
“ Don’t you speak to my sister, sir.”
When we saw in Sydney D.T. a leader
headed “ The Ability of Being Inconsistent,” we
coughed. That was all.
We always thought that nobody but a
headless corpse or an elementary spirit of infan-
tine imbecility would go out jubilating, but we
find we were mistaken, and we now retire beneath
the cover of our own inability to comprehend
some things in this world. It appears that an un-
happy wretch fireworked Her Gracious at a place
in England called Goole or Foole, or something of
the kind, and blew his eyesight out over the job.
The Queen sent him £35 because he exploded him-
self in honour of her Jubilee, which goes, we
presume, to prop up the historio theory that she
is “ very sorry when an aocident occurs in the coal
mines.”
The Picturesque Atlas of Australasia
has now reached its twenty-flrsb part and shows
no falling off in the artistic or literary ability.
The latest tosue deals with the topography of
Queensland, and contains a large number of
beautifully executed illustrations of northern
Beenes. The principal features of Brisbane,
Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, and
other towns are reproduced with striking accu-
racy, and the beautieß of the coast, such
as they are, are delineated with photographic
accuracy. The literary part of the work supplies
much valuable information about the youngest of
the Australian colonies, and, though the stories
of the old Moreton Bay settlement have been
toned down in their darkest details, they
will recall to many an old pioneer the half-for-
gobten legends of the time when Britain founded
a branch Sheol on the banks of the Brisbane
River.
The Keferee
M‘Shane missed an ea3y chance from
Moses off the first stroke he made, rather an
expensive mies for the Vies. Moses’ cricket after-
wards was of the most perfect description, and
nothing like it has been seen on the ground since
Murdoch’s historic innings. And, talking of
Moses, reminds us of C. A, Smith’s neatly-timed
little speech after the N.S. Wales-British match,
in which the man with the old Hebrew name
made 109 “ Pity it was,"Remarked Mr. Smith,
“ THEINGS NE SEE
WHEN WE COME OUT
WITH OUT O[?] SON.”
“that Pharaoh’a daughter did not leave that
infant amongst the bulrushes.”
* * *
How have the mighty fallen ! Massie
made an exhibition of himse'f in the Intercolonial,
and must have heaped curses loud and deep upon
the parties who persuaded him to take the place
o' a gcod man merely upon his old time reputa-
tion. Ted Evans went through a similar ex-
perience a shon time since, and it is to be hoped
that when the time for appointing a Se’eotion
Committee eg tin comas round the chosen ones
will hare suffioient back-bone to pick the best
teams available, independent of friends and
prejudices.
• • •
It is nob often that a yacht owner has the
luck to get a “ leg in ” for a £5OO cap at the* first
| time of asking a new boat. Mr. Milson is such a
lucky one, however, having carried off the big
event at the National Regatta with his new 40
tonner, the Era, beating, from scratch, the Magic,
llmin, 3sec. ; Misti al, Bmin. lleec. ; and
Waitargi llmin 3sec., time by rating. Mr.
‘ Jack” Want did not stait his big centre-
boarder, the Miranda. Rumour has it shs is a
rank failure so far as speed is concerned.
• *
Peter Kemp male small bones of the
All Comers Race, beating Hearne and Nelson in
the o’der named. The water was rot fit for
wager-boat work, the men having to row through
a miniature sea. Kemp manipulated the rough
water in splendid style, and Nelson would have
beaten the New Zealander had a steamer not
thrown him out of his course.
• » *
How was it that only four balls an over
were played in the Intercolonial, the Conference
in Melbourne having decided that six shou’d be
the number for the future ?
• * •
The Sydney crew— Johnson, the two Ken-
nedy s, and Dobson—made rather a hollow affair
of the Senior Fours for the £lOO trophy. The
Sydney crew, stroked by Bros, beat the Mercan-
tiles, and the Balmain crew, who rowed in a boat
unsuited to the water, brought up the rear. The
Mercantiles burst their boat and swamped just as
they reached the flagboat.
• • *
More Grseco Roman agony is promised in
Melbourne, the astute Connor being anxious—so
anxious—to wrestle Cannon for the ohampionship
Out of four matches between the same men
Connor has won three, and when he lost his
trainer said it was a barney. Consequently the
public are not sharing the Irishman’s anxiety for
another set-to.
• * *
Yaukeeland is not free from the petty
weaknesses of humanity. Anent Hanlau, that
great and glorious country hails the possibility of
the Australian possession of the rowing cham-
pionship being contested by a “ genuine star-and-
stripes man. ’ Yet the eagle averted its eye
from Hanlan's place of birth, and patted itself
affectionately with its wings, before its adopted
representative got doubled ur.
• * *
The great Mick O’Brien suffered much
tribulation at Caulfield after his feeble finish on
Anarchy for the Selling race. The stewards
solemnly warned their young friend that his riding
was so suspicious that he mustn’t do it again,
under penalty of 12 months’ disqualification, and
then stultified themselves by advising him to have
nothing more to do with such ill-tempered beasts
as Anarchy. The facts of the case appeared to
be that the mare played up at the post until the
shadowy Mick (not in the best of health) was too
dead beaten to rouse her up at the finish, and, by
admitting this possibility, the stewards took all
the sting out of their reproof.
* * *
Charlie Wood and George Barrett, first
and third on the list of winning jockeys for the
last English season, have been refused the Jockey
Club’s license to ride races in 1888. These two
mannikins worked the oracle with impunity until
some of their hanky-panky touched Jockey Club
pockets, since which time that august body of
nobilitr has been much scandalised. Racing men
of all sorts and conditions get their ideas of right
and wrong from one sacred little book—a thin,
oblong shaped volume, fitted with an elastic band
and metallic pencil.
# * *
JDick Matthews—lately knocked out by
Harry Laing at Wanganui in a bruising match
for the heavy weights championship of N Z. —in-
tends going out for a while to grass. The doctor
in attendance thinks his patient will be able to
move shortly without crutches ; says that his
lamps are almost equal to new; and that his
nasal organ is still capable of discriminating be-
tween the smell of ordinary store flathead and
dried shark. At the tame time, Dick is con-
siderable of a wreck and has been much knocked
about.
* * *
John L. Sullivan and Charles Mitchell
have signed articles for a “fight to a finish”
somewhere within the London district —place and
date kept strictly dark. Numberless paragraphs
have advertised the men’s deadly animosity, and
their desire to “ have it out on the spot,” &c., See.
But, singular to state, the selected stakeholder
(£5OO a-side) is a certain Mr. Bull, better known
as Chippy Norton, a man who has not hitherto
been associated with much straight business.
With a hundred sporting “toffs” available, things
look dicky when the corpulent Mr. Chippy is ap-
pointed to boss what ought to be the fight of the
present generation, and if John L, and the goed-
ooking Englishman fight anything but a draw
under such circumstances the public will be a
good deal surprised.
* * *
Tee biggest crowd yet crammed into
Foley's Hall attended on Monday night to witness
the glove fight, “to a finish,” between Fogarty
and Charley Dunn, the Newcastle pedestrian and
pugilist. For eighteen rounds the fighting was
ot the most desperate description, Dunn confining
his heavy visitations to the body, Fogarty
returning with interest on the head. For the last
few rounds Fogarty kept his right quiet, so much
so that it ivas thought he bad injured the hand,
and it was mb until the eighteenth rout d that he
dispelled the illusion by bringing it with smashing
effect on his opponent’s jaw, lifting Dann off h‘s
feet and knocking him senseless. Fogarty has
shown Hmseif to be the hardest rigat-handed
hitter of his weight—if not of any weight—in the
oolonies It may take him a considerable time to
get it on, but when it doss reach home he hits
with sufficient force to drop a bu’lock.
* * *
A knock-out, such as Fogarty delivered
on Monday night, leads up to the query : Is the
blow from, a comparatively sn ail glove of more
stunning effect than a hit from the naked fist ?
In the “good tld days” men fought for home,
and, to come to later times, the powerful, trained,
heavy a’hletes, Smith and Ktlrain, fought until
darkness drew upon them, without a knock-out
blow. It may be argued that the rounds in a
glove contest, being of three minutes' duration,
weaken the men more than iu a ring contest
where the rounds, as a rule, are so much shorter,
but on Monday night, when Fogarty relegated
Mr. Dann to his little cot, the coaly man, who is
of a remarkably powerful physiqua, was compara-
tively fresh, and looked fit to fi glib for a week.
The respectable scores made s gainst
Turner’s bowing by Victoria and the M.C.C.
Englishmen, make it evident that Shrewsbury’s
lot are exceptionally bad batsmeD, cr have played
rn exceptionally strange wicket?. Their aogre-
gate soore against N S.W. for six innings is not
half that made by the other two teams, either of
which the professionals could w ip with ease.
By the way, our estimate of the much bapuffed
Trott was in acacrdance with re ults on Friday
and Saturday. His bowling is rot the sjrb of
stuff to tend over to England with the next
Eleven
In the holy village of Dunedin (N.Z ) an
old soldier who had baen through the Crimean
War and the ladian Mutiny and wore saven
medals on his breast, was charged with failing to
comply with an order to contribute half-a crown a
week for the support of his son, an inmate of an
Industrial Schcol. He is in receipt of the princely
pensio i of 7s. a week. “To him that hath shall be
given, and to him that hath not”—well! the Bible
is the secret of England’s greatness.
A scathing rebuke of our Centennial
drunk is found in the fact that the Agents-General
feared to attempt my kind of celebration in Lon-
don. Calling to mied the many trumpery oc-
casions, qn which these strong-jawed gentlemen
have solemnly banqueted and burst into oratory,
it comes like a cold shower upon our alcoholised
heads to learn that they haven’t, in their offioial
characters, slaughtered one chicken upon the
great Centennial altar. This Isn’t so odd as it
seems. English people are ignorano enough of all
matters pertaining to Australia—except the story
of its first colonists. The Agents had no sooner
set up a grand scheme of eating, drinking, and
crowing for Foundation Day, than a whirlwind of
locrl ridicule blew it into nothingness. On
January 26 th, 1888, our London representatives
quietly shut dp shop (as though there was a death
on the premises) and slunk forth to rejoice in some
sequestered cellar.
Dr. Canny, late Surgeon Royal Artillery and H.M. 11th
Regiment, L R.C.P. L M., M.R C S., Wngland Registered
in Great Britain and N.S.W. 61 Wentworth Court Cham-
bers, Blizabeth-street (ground floor) Specialist in Diseases
of the Liver Kidneys, &c. Dr. Canny's long service in the
Tropics, &c has afforded him special experience in the
treatment the above mentioned disease)


PEPPER
AND
SAIT
Thfe emu is an unbertaln bird which sits
down awful hard on the bread-basket of the
human rabe when its dahder is elevated and its
wild Australian monkey is np, and a man who
now resides in bed at Silverton (N.S.W.) is pre-
pared to swear to this fact before a duly qualified
Commissioner for taking affidavits in the colony.
He was out on the plains with another man, who
is also prepared to swear to it, ard they caught
sight of a tall hen bird meditating along with a
lanky young one kicking up a dust in the rear.
Some demon of Incarnate foolishness fixed npon
the man who Is now in bed, and aftei- a long
Stein chase, he arrested the young bird by the
rail. He probably thought at the moment that he
had done a smart thing, but h=i suddenly became
awate that the balcfnl eye of the elderly fowl was
fixed Upon him, and after one glance into that
glowing orb he took his prize by the legs and
lighted out for sweet freedom beyond. The next
thing he was aware of was a demoniac welt on
the skull, and it seemed as if a steam hammer
was following him in close pursuit. He let go
the chicken, which fled screaming, and then
the old bird kicked him np in the air
and as he came down it kicked him up
again. A wild rough-and-tumble followed.
Sometimes the man was on top, but generally he
wasn’t, and when he wasn’t on top the emu was.
They dodged round and round each other and
Bcreamed. When the man thought he was close
enough to let out with his left the emu kicked np
a dust and blinded him, and then, before he knew
where he was or where he hoped to be if he could
only get away, the bird got one of Its legs round
his neck and was laying on to him with its tail.
Once or twice the man got in a blow on the jaw
which made his opponent wink, but the instant he
stepped hack to avoid the return he fell over the
chicken, which came and sat down behind him
every time, and then a wild-looking thing like a
feather-duster gone mad would rush on him in a
whirl of legs and wings and take a mouthful cf
his hair. By the end of the t hird round the man
hadn’t any clothes on, and, in the course of two
rounds more, the bird went away with his boots.
Finally, it left him sittirg on a thorny si rub, and
stalked away,, and he was too sick to follow. He
got home at a slow pace, and he testifies that the
emu is not a desirable addition to a quiet family
It has too little regard for the human feelings,
and is given to unjustifiable violence over matters
which should properly be settled by arbitration.
Also, the rapidity with which It does thirgs Is
painful, and even aggravating.
« * *
The other day at Rubbo a brilliant mili-
tary spectacle was broken all to Bbivers by one
small bad boy, thereby exposing New South
Wales to the scorn of foreign Powers, especially
to that of Russia, whose army is now mobilised
ip Poland and liable to break loose at any moment.
Major-General Richardson and Major Morris
were inspecting the local troops on the battle-field
of the dried-up Bogan when the unwashed boy in
question crawled up behind them and felt the tails
of,their coats to see if they were real. Then the boy
noticed that the Major, in all his movements, was
oareful to keep two paces behind the General, and
he planted himself within corresponding range of
the Major and followed him round. The artillery
began to titter, and the infantry guffawed. The
local captain swelled with indignation, and even
the General grew agitated, while the Major was
almost paralysed by the knowledge that a small
clown from the back-blocks was feeling his coat-
tail every now and then and snortirg with con-
tempt every time he did so. There was nothlßg
in the Articles of War or In any current manuel
on tactics or evolutions to authorise anybody to
ouff the head of this troublesome youth, and it
was useless to bring moral influence to bear up on
him as he obviously had cheek enough to come up
and haul on the coat-tail of a commander-in-chief
in the very midst of a blood-thirsty campaign.
The inspection was cut Bhort all along of that hoy,
and the Major-General passed the corps as efficient,
though his mind was so much shaken up that he
really didn’t know whether it was efficient or net.
His own opinion is that the boy in question would
have wrecked the strategy of Moltke himself,
and if he had got up behind that great soldier at
Sedan he would have made his reason totter on
its throne to such an extent that France might
have been saved.
• * *
“Let it always be remembered,” said
Parkes, “when we turn to the early history of
f-.hia one colony, that, as long as the offenders of
England were sent here, the offences idr which
they were dispatched were such as meet with no
punishment at all to-day.”—
One evening last week an hysterical man
with a bloodshot eye, foam on his Ups, his hair
streaming in the wind, and his hat in the gutter
three streets back, careered madly into the city of
Melbourne watch house. Arrived there, he butted
a woman who had loßt a boy with a red head and
a wart on his nose, over a chair, concussed a fat
constable, and then galloped on his prostrate
form, howling the while for police protection, and
peremptorily demanding that the militia and the
field artillery be immediately oalled out and the
deck cleared for action. Then he raged round,
damaging the bric-a-brac and banging his brow
against the fixtures, and when five minions of the
law got him down and sat on his head and chest,
he gasped his belief that the Federal Navy
and the Queenecliff fortifications were wanted
for active service, and that the country was going
down to Sheol with promptness and despatch.
A composing draught and a porous plaster were
administered by a constable who used to train
dogs, and, bye and bye, the fever abated Suffi-
ciently to allow of the visitor explaining that he
had been robbed of £5OOO worth of jewels by a
sand? complexioned cabman, whose religious con-
victions and moral rectitude were not fit to throw
at a South Sea savage, and whose number was
38&2. Accompanied by an intelligent constable,
the wild-eyed man went out into the night to
hnnt for a clue. They sought the suburban villa
of No. 3892, and wei-e told by a very small boy
with a scalded ear and an uuscavengered pinny
that dad had not returned ; “ he suppbsed he was
a-havin' a booze.” Then they went through the
city from stem to stfern, and groped about in
highways and byeways for tbepedatory hackman,
but found him not. It is necessary to explain
here that the wild-eyed man had hired
the cabman to drive him to the Flinders-
street station, and had gene on to the
platform, leaving his sample cases cf jewellery In
the cab, and, returnirg a few minutes later, he
had feund the cab gene. This caused him to fly
off the handle and behave in the pi-amis buous
manner we have described. Weary and worn the
bagman and the officer “ aV th’ law ” were at last
about to abandon tfce hunt when a bright idea
struck the latter—the unexpectedness of the thing
nearly blfew his heflfd off—and he suggested that
they might try the station. They tried the
station, and fetind the cabman and the cab, the
former whiling away the tiine by totting up his
bill on the flags with a lump of candle-grease.
He had not moved, but the commercial had come
THE REASON WHY.
“HOW IS IT THAT BOOKMAKERS GENERALLY KEEP TOBACCONISTS SHOPS?”
“BECAUSE THEY HAVE FAITH IN THE BACKER AS A SOURCE OF PROFIT.”
out from the station at a different gate from the
one at which he entered, then he had
promptly uttered a powerful whoop beoause his
cab wasn’t there, which it couldn’t very well be
as it was somewhere else, and had broke for the
police station. He recognised the cabman at the
very first go, and the cabman recognised him, and
they knew each other, and then as the situation
dawned on him he leant his fevered brow against
a lamp-post and besought the constable to cut him
open to see if he was an idiot. The constable did
not cub him open, however, thus affirming his
'judgment in language that was more eloquent
than words,
• * *
Old man Cranmer went to h' long hpme
'many years ago. He is now thu.ading his way
through the back blocks of the empyrean May
his ashes multiply and be fruitful ! He wasn’t of
much account a*i the best, bub now that he has
turned ou" his horse in the great paddock of the
Hereafter and eat down to boil his billy by the
sardonyx sea, we don’t bear him or any other fried
archb ehop a grudge History repeats itself, hpw-
ever, and this time Mrs. Cranmer is the martyr.
She lives close to the city of Wellingt on (N.Z.), and,
being a lineal descendant of the old burnt offering,
phe takes a great interest in Fox’s Book of
Martyrs. Feeling the want of a little recreation
after a long spell at that cheerful yarn about the
smashed Christians of the past she last week
struck a boiled saveloy attitude, and said she
would give a feed and a dance. Invitations were
sent out, and all the horny-handed for miles
aronnd relied up. The evening passed merrily,
and the visitors splodged about in the airy mazurka
until supper-tlme, and then an awful discovery
came down upon that festive threng, and made
them ask why they had been born. Somebody
had lifted the hash and fled with it through the
back door. The beer also had been hooked, and
a dark-browed assassin had rushed into the fog
of obscurity with the sausages. The ponderous
duff was absent, and when they asked where it
had gone to, eoho answered “ Where * ” The
blanc-mange was lying outside the door, and the
tart, which an hour before had been sitting on the
table, had vanished amid the boundless wastes
of the infinite, the nnreaohahle, and the
unhere. The rum had torn Itself a Way, and even
the loaf had gone where the woodbine twtneth,
and there was nothing left but spnds and sour
milk. It is owing to these things that Mrs.
Cranmer now weeps in her desolate household,
and wishes She were away with the burnt ancestor
and tearing round among the stars. Meanwhile her
guests have formed themselves into a vigilance
committee, and when they find the marauder,
they propose to hang hiih on high on a telegraph
pole, and then throw mud at his head.
• • •
In tile remote regions of Charters Towers
there dwells a sharebroker who combines with
the pastime of broking the business Of spiritualism,
without injuring his constitution. The other
night he fixed up a stance with a darkened room
and a good supply of spirits. They were all
gathered rotted a tdbla which was covered with a
large horse-cloth, ’the belleVers were rather a
miscellaneous lot and included a few picturesque
ruins who had once been females, one or two
bank clerks, an egg merchant, a stranger who
looked like a retired pirate, a woman of the
Bloomer persuasion, and a coal heaver or two.
Messages from the land of stlff ’uns were
rapped with celerity, and cemetery corres-
: pondence floated in the atmosphere. In frtofc,
things tVerfe going aB smoothly as Judas
! Iscariot sliding dotvn hill, till at iast the con-
i ductor of the Bhow called attention to a
: materialised spirit which was about to appear.
Then suddenly a wild soprano scream rang out,
and one of the ruins told the spirit he was no
gentleman, the spirit, who seemed to have got
I fixed under the table, told her to shut up, and she
| kicked out wildly and asked him what he was
going to do with her corns. Then the spirit
gave a mighty heave at the table and asked who
was a-puttin’ of her dashed big foot in his eye
apyhow. “ Leggo, you wretch,” screeched the
lady. “ I wish to the Lord I could let go,” said
the visitor from the other world huskily
“ Whp’s.been tyin’ of me up in knots ? Dash you,
you’ve got your feet in my pocket; ; take them
out, you old !;? and then the spirit tore
birqself out from under the table, upsetting it on
top of the circle, and breaking the cord that
upheld the concertina which, was supposed to be
floating in the air, and letting it down on the
head of the broker, where it concussed a good
deal,! There w v as a rush, and, two heels twinkling
in the air. Something heavy.fell out of the win-
dow, and tbpy heard it tear through the fence,
and do a spurt down the road. Then the. light
was turned on. and the sharebroker, holding bis
ear in one hand, said that the materialised spirit
had unfortunately gone away. These things, he
regretted to say, did happen now and- then
There would be another seance the followiog
evening.
A Croydon (Q„) correspondent writes to
state that Boxing Day was a high old festival in
that mining, township. It rained in torrents all
the time; there was a three-1 sgged race for a
prize in the shape of beer offered by a local, pub*
lioan ; six free fights took place and one of the
oombatants escaped through the town with no-
thing left on him except a collar and one shirt-
sleeve ; and the evening closed with a Home Rule
meeting, after which a miner blew Lis head off.>
Grand Old Man Clarke, at the Sydney
Central, Is going in for slating anyone who lays a
hostile flpger on the lambs of. the “fooroe.”
Whenever a Sydney oopper now wants to make
certain of potting his man he throws in something,
about “he assau’ted me, yer worchup, and tore
me uniform.” C. P. Haokett, who, years ago, was
police magistrate at Melbourne, was always
fetched by a constable saying that the prisoner
offered an Insult to the nationality of the beak
and the oopper. He called me a blanky Irish
blank, yer worohup,” was sure to mean a £5 fine
or a month extra.
HARE SOUP.
Why, certainly 1 We’re quite aware
That convicts mostly shot a hare
(Which must have been a common crime
With people in the olden time),
Jußt here and there you’d find a case
Of someone who had bagged a brace
Of partridges on grounds preserved ;
But ne’er a martyr yet deserved
The sentence he was working out—
Of that there isn’t any doubt.
The crimes which led to long exilo
Would now provoke a passing smile,
The dreadful things they used to rue
We’d now encourage them to do. 1
In point of fact (if truth be told),
The felons of the days of old,
Who came in irons o’er the seas,
Were better than our C.M,G.’s.
To That Statue
O! Statue of the Queen (heroic sl£e),
Most nlonatroiia of a dozen sculptured lies,
Upon that pedestal condemned to stay
And swallow Insults all the blessed day,
How hard your lot! A mark for honest sodrn.
“Alas !’’ cry you, “ that ever I was borri."
A sickly crew of servile snobs applaud,
And vainly strive to sanctify the fraud
With choioe expressions of a feigned belief
In their good Queen’s pre-eminence in grief.
Your drowsy eyelids and your mouth drawn
down
Each royal curte, from royal toe to crown —
Evoke a word of sympathy that’s sham.
Meanwhile the people merely mutter “ D -n !”
And you, poor Statue, conscious of your shame,
Would all connection with the Queen disdain ;
Were you but with a power of speech endowed
You’d claim a hearing from the grinning crowd,
And thus diseeurae : “In me, dear friends, be-
hold
The falsa presentment of a lady old ;
This forth ereot, which glistens ’neath the sun,
Should not exceed a height of flvo foot one ;
This cheek, befurrowed with pathetic lines,
Is puffed and purple when your Monaroh dines ;
This nose colossal, though in outline true,
Conveys no notion of its normal hue—
Enough, good people, In this Statue find
A Queen existing in a Tory’s mind.
Bear with me gently fdr a little while—
Scoff mercifully, pleasantly revile—
The reign of grovel draweth near Its end,
And then your Statue will be hailed as friend,
When Austral’s sons for Austral’s sake unite
To oust the wrong and usher in the right;
When Governors return from whence they came,
And you are free in fact, as well as name ;
When you have burned the baneful British flag,
Here erstwhile planted to appal the lag—
Then will your old identities so dense
Behold their fetish melted down to pence."
BRIEF MENTION.
There has been an enormouß gunpowder
explosion in Russia. The Czar was not in it.
The lateat is that Adam Lindsay Gordon
didnt write “A Voice from the Bush.” The
“ Voice ” is now said to have come out cf a party
named Morris.
Ohas. Sinnamon, of Mumurkah (Vic. },
after working half his life out as a butcher's
assistant, has just come into a fortune of £60,00(1
a year. Or thereabouts.
Rev. Moulton, bemoaning the state of the
Wesleyan Church in Tonga, says that thousands
of the natives now attend ne place of worship
whatever. Humph ! they won’t know what to do
with their savings presently.
The Chinaman is becoming datned par*
ticular. One of the tribe summoned John White,
of Clunes (Vic.), for calling him a monkey. Had
a real monkey been within hearing it would prob-
ably have brained Mr. White.
Says a painstaking country daily : “In
last line of yesterday’s leader for ‘executions'
read ‘execrations.”’ Seems to us there isn't
much sense in that correction. The two things
are so rear the same, you know.
An abstruse naturalist with goggles states
that the mosquito lives 30 days, but that his
power of Btii ging lasts for three days only. This
wise dispensation of Providence explains why our
nose isn’t swollen just ten times worse than it is.
The officials at Pen bridge Prison (Vic.)
celebrated the CentBnnary by pouring 20 bottles
of brandy which they had found in “swags,”
down a drain. The indignation of the local paper
over the “wilful waste” was frightfal in Its-
intensity.
A Sydney suburban devil-whanger named!
his Centennial Sunday lecture “The Hand of God
In Australian History.” If “ the hand ” was there
the Sydney oleric ought to have laid low. No-
body would have suspected its presence if he’
hadn’t said so.
A distinguished naturalist arrived at
New Zealand port the other day, with an exten-
sive entomological collection, and the irreverent
local print chronicled his advent thusly:
“ Amongst the arrivals are Mr. —, with half-
a-ton of bugs.”
This it the time when the gushing Can-
I tennial reporter alludes even more than usual to 1
I “Lady Macquarie’s Chair" in his descriptions of
Sydney scenes and festivities. Yet when the lady
in question was alive she was only a plato'
“missus,” after all.
“ In memory of our beloved mother*” ob-
serves an Age obituarian, and then he winds up-
with the.chilling remark, “ What shall it profit' a
man if he gain the whole world and lose his own'
soul ?’? The writer means well, no doubt, but it
reads rather rough on the beloved mother.
In England lately a young man shot him'
Belf beoause his girl wouldn't trot up to the altaf
and swear to annex all his spare cash for-hence-
forth and evermore. The jury re burned a verdict
of “Temporary Insanity.” The glaring truth of
their finding is too obvious to need comment.
The society of Sb. Vincent De Paul at
South Melbourne decided to give a Christmas’
treat to the poor, and amongst the donations s« n j ( '
in by philanthropic persons were four of
soap. It is a common idea amongst the patronw
iug moneyed class that the poor can want nocninl
but a wash.
An Onehunga(N.Z.) lawyer has discovered 1
that ever so long ago one of his ancestors was a
belted Knight, aud he has gone and stuck a
“Sir” in front of his simple name on the brass
plate. Business has looked up wonderfully
he did this, aud it is a cold day when he doesn
get at least one drunk to defend.
A touting advt. of the Church of Po-
land says that “In New South Wales It is P r °'
pos'd to raise £200,000 as a thanks offering 1
Almighty God." The question The bULi*® T ‘Jj
hastens to put is : If they raise this sum
Almighty God get it ? Or will some bishop °
other graciously save the Creator the trouble.
accepting It by collaring the loot himself and
vesting it in mining shares vended by the child* 0 "
of wrath*


Luxuriant Glossy Hair.-To obtain this, avoid
poisonous bair restorers and dyes, and use R°wlan os
Macassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best pre
server, strengthened and beautifier of the hair. Sold also m
a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children. Kow
t a vos’ Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion Aakdealersm
nerfumery for Rowland s articles, of 20, Hatton uiraen,
London.*
Agents in country districts will do well by com-
municating with Messrs. Tuttle and Co., corner
of George and Market streets, Sydney, Elizabeth-
street and Hawthorn, Burwood-road, Melbourne,
and Grand Arcade. Adelaide.
The transparency of Messrs. C. F. Priddy and
Co., Hatter, Georga-stieet, showed an amount of
taste not usually displayed in devices in front of
buildings, and we must congratulate them on
getting out of the old groove and striking some-
thing new. It is exasperating to see the same
old words and devices time after time. The
words used were Kendall’s, and very appropriate:
“A new age, cast in a diviner mould comes
crowned with lustre, zoned and shod with gold.”*
RHEUMATIC BAROMETERS.
Weather changes indicate themselves by pains
called rheumatism. Why bad weather should
cause such pains is a mystery ! Does the pain
really lie dormant in the blood, to be made active
only when the wind blows from some unfavour-
able quarter ? At first many thought it to be a
trouble of the j oints, but all outward applications
eft the cause unbenefited, Then, causing like
pains in the muscles, it was thought to be a
muscular disease; but the same unsatisfactory re-
sults followed external treatment. Now, however,
it is universally acknowledged that rheumatism is
‘ ‘ a fiery condition of the blood caused by an acid
state of the system ! ” What causes this “acid
condition?” Last week a prominent man left
town on a business trip. Two days later he, who
had always been apparently strong and wall, was
sent home a corpse—" Rheumatism of the heart! ”
Everybody dreads rheumatism. It is very preva-
lent at this changing time of the year. It was
formerly seldom known except among those who
worked much out of doors. Now iD invades the
hut, the palace, and the throne room; all sorts
and conditions and races of men and women it at-
tacks at all times, and all fear it! Frederick
Baseden, of Swansea House, New Farm, Brisbane,
suffered for many years from rheumatism. Last
January he went to the Brisbane Hospital, leav-
ing it in April in about tbesame condition as when
he entered it. At that time he had a complete
stoppage of the water, and was confined to his
bed< for five weeks. A friend recommended
Warner’s Bafe cure and Warner’s safe pills, which
he took with wonderful benefit, and eventually his
pain ceased, and with it his urinary trouble Mrs.
Eva Gee, of Gympie, Q, suffered excruciating
pain from rheumatism in ter ankles, joints,
wrists, and fingers for 16 months. Warner’s safe
cure, alternated with Warner’s safe rheumatic
cure, brought her relief when everything else
failed, John Atkieson, of Ipswich, Q , the oldest
freemason in the colonies, now aged 92 years, and
who had been troubled with rheumatism for 12
years, was cured with six bottles of Warner’s safe
rheumatic cure. Alfred Wm. Cotnpigne, of Bean-
leigh, Q., police magistrate; William Wyatt,
miner, of North Creswick, aged 60 years ; Edwin
Macaree, alderman, of Rockhampton, Q, and
many others, have been cured of rheumatism
with Warner’s safe rheumatic cure. What this
great medicine has done for others it will do for
you.*
PERSONAL ITEMS.
IParkes la becoming bald—'-black-balled.
Very appropriately the Hon. John Lackey
need attendance on Lady Carington during
s etachew ceremony. ,
Davev Jones now runs an undertaker s
at St. Arnaud (Vie.). Thus the eternal lit-
is Of things is still upheld.
Mai or Atkinson, the N.Z. Premier, after
n fully holding up his end of the political log
many years, has degenerated into a knight.
General ftigby Willoughby, late of the
eenof Madagascar’s forces, has been sentenced
six months for emWUng Her Majesty s royal
jar. What a fall for Digby 1
A modern journalist —female, we imagine
,ays that “ Lady Carington leant rather heavily
Dan O'Connor’s arm.” From another point of
jw she appeared to be holding Dan up
Mr Tom Carrington has severed his con-
ctlon with the Melbourne Punch, and now
votes himself exclusively to Urn service of the
[TSTRAI.asian and Australian Sketch ek.
“ Barring the difference in height, Parkes
3 ks more than ever like Slepniak, the Nihi-
t ” writes “ The Vagabond.” What a calamity
at such shoddy should be wrapped in so im-
sing a parcel !
Says “The Vagabond,” writing of the
gw. Agricultural Associations Centennial
noh — “Judge Windeyer looks as if he, had
“er hanged anyone.” We presume this is
tended as flattery.
Mr John Good, who for 13 years has been
mnected with the Victorian police, has taken
Sers and become a Church of Eng and clergy-
an. After kissing the Book for 13 years, no
onder the man wants a change, and starts to
jund it instead. ,
Chief Secretary Deakln has allowed the
mperialistic noose to be placed around his neck,
to now dines with dear Sir Henry Loch two or
iree times a week, but ib is thought that he will
ot consent to acoept a knighthood until at least
iVO more years have passed over his head.
Said the “Vagabond” in his account
ie unveiling at Sydney otthe
■ictoria : “ This crowd on the ties of
rilliant one, outwardly. I couid tell taies or
lany of them if I desired to he unkind, but I
3frain.” Outwardly is good. Are you listening,
Jarington and Co 1 .
The “Vagabond” says that the tram
rrKioii carried him from Melbourne to wallow in
he Centennial shivoo bore only politicians, Pres-
ivterian parsons, and pressmen. Then he goes on
o observe that this reminds him of the special
hmday train which left New York for Boston at
rnL nf the areat fire in 1872, containing only
iction has not cured J. Thomas. He is still
ough on rats. . . ,
Sam Johson, an erstwhile Auckland
awyer, has vanished over the horizon, and a lot
money which had been entrusted to him is also
ITh« » a bulky gentlemaa,
irnament of a fashionable church. The last time
ie attended there the soul-purifler in charge
ireached an eloquent discourse upon the tex ,
Keep yourself unspotted from the world, and
-hen the congregation joined in executing a
hymn. Mr. Jackson helped to scrag the melody
is usual, and next morning he wa3 gone.
Poor Dick Dabney, the N.Z. artist who
was drowned at Auckland a few days ago. was a
prominent member of the Mahlstick Club, and
now tbat he his gone that institution freely
forgives him for a lark he once played upon it.
The club at that time was t^ 111 *
Alfred Dommetfs poems, and Lshney was
romiflsted to produce a picture of Hinemoas
swim across Lake Rotorua, He found the subject
too vast and too poetic, however, so enlarged
the lake, hoisted the scenery on the shore
out of sight by placing it on the other side of the
horizon, drowned Hinemca and turned her upside
down, and produced a boundless expanse of
water with two feet sticking out. It.was the
heaviest knock which the club’s dignity had ever
received.
Hon. John Ballance, ex-Miniater -for
Lands in N.Z., is a jeweller by trade, but aban-
doned the business and took to newspaper corres-
pondence during the sanguinary Wanganui cam-
paign against the Maoris. He soon after became
the owner of a journal, and proved himself better
at presswork than jewellery. He then sunk q
politics, and, becoming associated with Sir George
Grey, he had a seat in that awful Cabinet of ten
years ago which was full of good intentions and
which made such an appalling mess of thing 3
In consequence. He will probably be forgotten as
a statesman, but he will live in history as the man
who bred the grand old racer, Fishhook, on which
the present writer once bet all he had and got so
badly left that he had to walk home by the dirt
road, a distance of seven miles.
Mr. Frederick Young has, it is cabled,
been made a C.M.G. Mr. Young has long angled
for this dubious honour. He is regarded by the
London daily Press, to which he constantly writes
letters, as a great authority on Australia ; yet Mr.
Young has never been in Australia in his life,
and has acquired whatever knowledge he pos-
sesses of this Continent by listening -to the fairy-
tales told by the fossils of the Colonial Institute,
of which he has long been secretary or something.
He is a man of independent means, who made his
money as a coppersmith in the City, asd he will
now die happily in the knowledge t r at his friends
will be sure to see that the undertaker doesnt
forget to put-C.M.G. after his name on the coffin-
plate. Oh, the glory of being called ‘ Mr.
Frederick Young, C.M.G.,” by the Times when
it, poor innocent thing, writes a two-column
leader based on Mr, Frederick Young s next letter
on “Imperial Federation.”
The other day it was rumoured that Mr.
Her- - ilin contemplated matrimony with the
well-prcK ved Countess of Dudley, and now we
have it that he is to succeed Robinson, the Tronba-
■dour, as Governor of South Australia. If there is
anything in the latter tale the former must neces-
sarily he a sweet sassiety fiction, for a family rea-
Bon of a painful nature compels the Countess to
shudder at the bare mention of these parts.. Tnat
aristocratic waif, Lizzie Munro, is toe family rea-
son. Lizzie’s chequered career draws to a close,
and she has hardly the strength to get drunk thesp
last few months, but she still hangs on to the tail-
end of her misfortunes somewhere around Mel,
bourne. And if her noble sister were established at
Government House, Adelaide, she’dhave poor Lizzie
banging at the front door in less than no time,
olaiming kinship and breathing bad language
through the keyhole. This wierd possibility
must needs keep the Countess of Dudley at a safe
distance from Lady Munro’s adopted land, there-
fore Chaplin is coming out in single harness or
not coming at all. If he does prove to be the new
Governor we shall read the old story of how his
girl jilted him in favour of the Marquis of
Hastings, until we grow aweary. Chaplin, the
ladies will be interested to hear, is a broad
shouldered, sandy man, who is commonly believed
to go to bBd in his eye-glass. His deceased wife
was a duke’s daughter, and his family title of
plain Mister dates back to Lord knows when.
The “Vagabond ” says: “la Boehm’s
statue of Queen Victoria H. M. is given a good
likeness. The Queen looks dignified, not to say
slightly sulky.” The Argus man says the statue
“represents the Quean in mature age, matronly
in figure, austere to severity in expression, a look
of po l er on the face, but mingled with pathos
and pain.” That's always the way. If with a
good stock of reverence you approach the con-
templation of a stout old lady with a bad-
tempered f!ca you talk of “mature age, 1 ’
“matronliness” and “austereness even unto
severity.” If, on th? other h’-nd, you be an
irreverent democrat like Mr. Julian Thomas, you
perceive none of the comparatively dignified at-
tribute of “austerity.” The “austere linea-
ments," as seen by the monarch-worshipping
Tory, are but “ a sulky mug ” in the eyes of the
man from the Age office. As Mr . Dailey said, on
a memorable occasion years ago: “Place the
most honest and pleasing face behind these (the
deck) rails and it at once becomes a faco that ex-
AT THE FISH RIVER CAVES.
“WHY DON’T THEY SELL LIQUOR UP HERE?”
“WELL, YOU SEE, IF THEY DID, THE STALAGMITE WOULD GET STALAGTITE.
presses every passion,” One of the best recipes
for destroying the monarchy would be for the
owners of the Waxworks to first seat on the
thrones in the front room ail the effigies of the
executed murderers, merely taking care to put
crowns on their heads, and conceal the rope-
marks on their necks by means of Elizabethan
frills and such contrivances. Having done this,
they should proceed to put the kings and queans
into the Chamber of Horrors. It’s hard to tell
the exact truth about His Majesty’s face or His
Excellency’s brains if you are writing for the
Argtjs.
The Hallelujah bummer, can praise the
Loard, but he can’t drive a hoss worth a cent,
Full-blown Private Ah Quae, of Auckland (N Z,),
after weltiiground the ‘ splingcallot” andloading
up his dally mead of refuse, bethought him of the
annual Army bun-straggle, his absence from
which would dim the glories of the celestial joy
which should pervade the occasion. Hite ing up
his steed, he entered the abode of harmony and
indigestion, only to discover that he was too late
for the banquet, but in time to assist in carting
home some of the disabled imbeciles. Stowed on
top of a load of dirt, three poke bonnet'ed vir-
gins and the saintly Mongol made a start for home
and very nearly fetched Kingdom Come straight)
away, for the horse, degraded though he might ba,
couldn’t demean himself to put up with the added
insult of three lanky hallelujah lasses So he
jib'r.ed. Vainly they upbraided him with psaltery
and harp; sck unto death with vexation of spirit
they held a knee-drill inspection before the throne
of Grace, hut that moke wouldn’t let up on his
backsliding. Now the cart was nearing the side
of a gully, which, for depth of fall aud degrada-
tion, was equal to inscribed New Zealand stock,
so something had to be done, and that quickly.
The three vestals made up their minds and
jumped out, making enough display of muscular
limbs to shock the Chinaman, who went over
the side in company with the horse and cart and
fetched no somewhere at the bottom with the load
of horse-feed on top of him. The horse was
gathered unto his fathers, and the cart was
smashed, but—and here the moral come? in—the
Chinkie got damages from the Road Board for
not putting a fence up, and he now drives a car-
riage out of the proceeds. So much for the bless-
ings of Salvation.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Pope, in reply to a deputation of
English pilgrims, we are told by cable, said he
hODed amity wi h Ireland should soon be restored.
We should say that His Holiness is on a rail.
What do you think ?
One of the longest visages in the Queens-
land As embly at the present time belongs to that
arid waste on two legs known as Chubb, Q C.
Chubb has received distinct intimation from his
constituents at Bowen that they don’t want him
any more, and are going to put in a man with
brains. And no man with brains ever bore a
name like Chubb.
His Grace the Duke of Argyle has been
’ grunting in the House of Lords about the Irish
lenants spending their money in drink and dresses
or their wives instead of paying their rents.
Its Grace would doubtless prefer to see rents
)aii and a contented race of shoeless, stock-
ngless Irishwomen attired in two or three rags
ipiece, humbly blessing the name of the Hook.
H. Mortimer Franklyn describes Parkes
n the Pall Mall Gazette as “the leader,
jhrough all his vicissitudes, of Perhaps tho
grandest movement oC modern times, the Feaera*
’ion of the British dominions." This is pretty tall
rrom a Victorian uncertifloated insolvent, whose
standing in Australia isn’t good enough to get him
the position of scavenger to a fifth-rate munici-
pality.
The Hon. Daniel Palien, commonly known
»s “SoaDy Din," resigned his seat in the N. Z
Upper House the other day because his striving,
suffering, tolling country reduced the annual
cheque of each rheumatic fossil to £lOO, He is an
Auckland man, but many years ago he voted for
the removal of the seat of Government from than
city to Wellington, and Auckland has burnt him
in effigy and cursed him, and thrown things
at his head ever since.
At the Centennial Press dinner Sir Henry
Parkes, in proposing the toast of the “ Press,
said that when he founded—or foundered—the
Empire newspaper, the only journals outside
Sydney were the Maitland Mercury, the Border
Post, and the Bathurst Free Press. Just here
he might have been grateful enough for once to
pay a tribute to the venerable proprietor of the
last named journal, who, in S r Henry s first
financial difficulties, raised for him a sum of
£lOOO in the City of the Plains on condition that
he retired from the political arena for ever. Sir
Henry took the coin on these conditions, but the
slippery old man didn’t retire worth a cent.
Sir Henry Parkes does not think that
people have any right to call themselves rotec-
tiooists," as such persons are really resur-
rectionists.” This utterance commands respect.
The man who resurrected the Klama Qhost and
John Davies, and the red-hot brand of shame, and
who wanted to build the Dead Rouse, and who
rose again after getting £lOOO at Bathurst on con-
dition of quitting political life or ever, and who
retired from Parliament for ever half-a-d'zen
times and resurrected himself on each occasion,
should be an authority on body-snatcsing and
similar subjects. Protection has risen again, and
if, asParkes seems to hint, it had no r ght to do
so, then there is equally good reason why he
should himself lie hard down at the last day and
take no notice of the trumpet.
Redmond Greely, farmer, of County Gal-
way, Ireland, has for five years been treading on
the tail of the British Lion, and it is still a ques-
tion whether he or the Empire on which the sun
never sets in its sane moments will come out
uppermost. In 1883 his landlord turned him out
of his farm, and when he went back he was lifted
off, and imprisoned for trespass. Since then he
has bsen going back every time he came out of
gaol, and has been regularly hauled off to prison
for doing it, but when his sentence expires he
simply goes back some more. In facb, he has
gone back more than any other man in the
British dominions, and, as no one will take the
farm in his absence, he came out of gaol for about
the fifteenth time the other day, and settled down
on the old spot. The landlord had taken the
house away in his absence, but 200 men turned
out and built another one, and all Galway is
howling to see the man who will venture to lay a
hand on the domicile.
There is in New Zealand one electorate—
only one—-which can be said to have sunk lower
than even Mudgee in its choice of a representa-
tive, It commenced its career in the early days
with a Wesleyan local preacher for its member,
and in him it placed its confidence for many
years. He was regularly loaded down with filthy
lucre, but his reputation was untarnished until he
began to follow after strange women and strange
liquors, and to stay out late at night and not come
home till morning, Ultimately, certain painted
matrons had him for £17,000 among them, and
thus the female of his race brought him low. He
became stone-broke and got 48 hours owing to
being left alone with a two-shilling piece and the
coin not being there when the other fellow came
back. The next representative started life in a
dead-broke condition, and when he drank himself
to death his worldly possessions didn’t amount to
a barrow-load of bricks. Following him came a
card-sharper. He had not been kicked out of a
fashionable club, as was generally reported, but
he had been kicked inside and then went out
voluntarily and in great haste. He was also
posted as a turf-defaulter, and no well-regulated
household in all N Z. was complete without his
1.0. U. But he still lives and gets a vote of con-
fidence from his constituents every time he
addresses them, and on the whole he is doing
about as well as can reasonably be expected.
“ Salvation Army Jack u was fighting the
good Bkrimmage recently at Picton (N.S.W.).
During the course of his ministrations he bit the
heads off three kittens.
Isaac Pitman, the Lord hath need of thee.
The Auckland (N.Z.) hallelujah band has grown
weary of wasting its fragrant verbosity on the
desert air, and the gaffers of the gang now yearn
to start a Hansard of their own. Consequently a
saved reporter is advertise! for to taks down the
shrieking sisterhood in shorthand. The idea is a
good one, but alas ! what system of phonography
yet invented can reproduce the whack ef the big
drum, and without the drum, what remains ?


Which is to
“Never in the history of the Empire had i[?] been more important than at the present moment that the mother country and the colonies should stand to


Front?
[?] ad y front, with the great powers of Europa armed to the teeth and standing face to face.”— Speech by Sir Henry Loch at the Centennial Banquet.


freckubaie.
The unparalelhd suoceas of thii preparation in removing
Freckles Tan, Sunburn, Ac . has already caused a numbfr
of unscrupulous persons to place worthless imitations on the
market. Beware of such, and see the written signature F.
Moore Clements, in red ink aoro'slaheL Rejertallothers,
or got itldiroet. post free for 2s. lOd. in N.S.W.stamps,
from Washington H. Soul and Co., i'.n-Rtroot. Bydney. or
the inventor F Moore Clements Itl KhiK stroot New-
town. N.B. W. Please report all oases of attempted substi-
tution, when immediate legal proceedings will be com-
menced by F. M. Clements, Newtown, N.B.W.
Home Is home, be it the Artisan's cottage, Merchant's
villa, or King's castle, and it is there the quiet pipe of peace
can be enjoyed. Bray Bros , the China and Class people
of 402 and 404 Oeorge-street, can help you to make each
of our rooms more attractive and beautiful*
Worth Knowing —James' Detective Cold Water Soap
has made a reputation tor itself quite surprising. In the
" wash-tub, ’ its patrons deolare it far suroasses all other
soaps for quickness, ease, and perfection. Its cures in skin
diseases, &0.. are wonderful—scurvey, prickly heat, all kinds
of soreß, bad feet, horses with greasy heels, cows with sore
teats, mangy dogs, are all subject to its removing power,
while it is sold at common soap price. The genuine testi-
monials which Mr. James has from ministers, missionaries,
Sentlemen of position, working men and their wives, are un-
eniable. Over 200 grocers in Sydney keep it, and all com-
munications get prompt.attention from Mr. 11. James, the
maker, at 783 George-street, Sydney.*
Btudy your own Interest by using Pemell's Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour It is made in tha oolony from
the best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the prioe very low.*
Society
In New Zfa 1 and the other day the
Marquis of Drogheda was—for some unknown
reason or other—sent a free rail way-pass for him
self and his Marchioness. Then he waited upon
the Secretary for Railways, and asked ho w it was
he had not also been given fres-passes for his
friends. “We are all travelling together,” he
remarked, whereu non free-passes for his friends
were sent to him Then Hia Gorgeousness
remarked that he wasn’t satisfied with the hour
fixed for the departure of the train—couldn’t
they put on a special ? And then they did put on
a special 1 Wonderful are the airs which the salt
of the earth give 3 itself in these beastly colonies,
and still more wonderful is the meekness with
which aristocratic impudence is endured. Going
over in the s.s. To Anau, the Marquis’s party,
finding it very close below in the cabin, ar-
ranged that they should be allowed to
sleep in the social hall on
deck. And, would you
believe it, they wanted
the rest of the passengers
to clear hut of the hall at
nine o’clock nightly for
their especial conve"
nience,* and showed
themselves to be highly
Incensed when the ple-
beian portion of the
ship’s live cargo mani-
fested a disposition to
resent their little attempt
at tyranny.
• * *
Carington separated
from his escort in the
Centennial Park was a
spectacle to look upon
and weep. The utterly
lost aspect of the Barren,
his evident consciousness
that he wasn’t shedding
a ha’porth of glory in the
grand colony he has the
honour to represent —haw
—pointed a melancholy
moral. On what an un-
substantial basis isofflclal
dignity built up I On an
escort which slides away
unexpectedly and leaves
the poor Governor the
moßt lone, lorn, hapless
creature in the whole
push. And yet the es-
cort without Carington
looked pretty much as
awe-inspiring as usual.
* * *
A little while ago,
in one of the colonies, a
party of English tourists,
among whom were a
“nobleman” or two,
were invited by a Btation-
holder, whose homestead
they were passing, to
partake of refreshments.
They aocepted and were
moßt hospitably treated.
Several of the party dis-
played much enthusiasm
concerning a monster
kangaroo-skin which
their entertainer had
nailed up in his sitting-
room, and two of them,
cads in loud checks,
eventually had the bad
taste to make him cash-
offers for the trophy.
“Look here,” said Mr.
Jumbuck, “I am not a
nobleman, hut I have
treated you all as gentle-
men. Yon in return have
grossly insultedme in my
own house. Please leave
my premises - there Is
the door ! ” We have
always thought the cash
offer to your host was
never made save in that
land of perfect freedom,
the United States. One
oold evening in San
Francisco a few years
ago the present writer
was wearing a big frieze
coat. A man whom he
had never seen before came up and remarked in a
loud voice : “ I say, stranger, do you want to sell
that coat? Because, if you do, i'll give you 60
dollars for it."
* * *
We have become gradually bald on top,
our hack teeth have departed, and we have grown
lean and hungry with wondering why Carington
ever cams to suoh a dem'd hole as Sydney,
donoherknow. He wasn’t a place hunter by
birch, marriags or education, like Loftus, Ner-
manhy, Looh, Robinson anievery other Governor
that B-italn ever blessel us with. He hadn’t
served his Queen, apart from keeping a friendly
eye on her Heir Apparent when they were wont
to paint Loudon rod in the wee sma hours.
Theiwhyhad Carington, a presumedly wealthy
man of pleasure, still comparatively sound in
wind and limb, gone into voluntary exile, far
from Bertie an 1 the maddening crowd? Wave
been giving up the riddle and having one more
try, until our condition is as aforementioned in
the first clause above set forth. And now, quite
by accident, we’ve got the answer fro n a wander-
ing dook who knew our family before lb beoamo
extlnot, and takes a pleasure in supplying us with
spioy items connected with that great world we
renouneed years ago at the instigation of an irate
tailor. Thsdook says “as’ow he’s'erd tell as
wot the Barrin’s hestate wanted a good deal of
nussin’ like, afore it could hever be wot it was
wonst.” We suppose he’s nussin' it now.
* * *
Governor Carington has ever a keen e-y e
to his personal popularity. His method of dealing
with the crowd at large differs very considerably
from that of Parkes, Hay and Co., and other
be-baubled politicians, whose experience is purely
colonial. At the laying of the foundation stone
of the new Sydney Houses of Parliament the
decorated orators named, addressed their elo-
quence exclusively to the gilded bourgeoise on
the “grandstand,” but when Governor Car-
ington’s turn arrived he showed his back to the
grand-stand (enthusiastic applause from that
quarter was, he knew, oertain) and spot e to “the
mob," who were not slow to notice the fact.
* *
It ia ominous to see a man going to lee-
ward. Sir Charles Mitchell, late Governor of
Fiji, who now proceeds to the Leeward Islands
(of coarse he is to be the new Governor, at £2OOO
a year less than he received in Fiji), is a well-
preserved widower whom the Fijian girls tried
to “hook." However, they seem to have made
little impre33ion, for it was his Excellency’s habit
to be jusb as friendly in public with the poor little
mlsi in book-muslin as with the gilded lady who
outraged expediency by wearing pile velvet
in a tropic land, Sir Charles was really
popular In Fiji, notwithstanding the gorgeous-
AN ANCIENT GAG
“ HOW DID THIS HAIR COME ON YOUR COAT, DEAR?”
“OH ! I SUPPOSE IT’S OFF THE DOG."
“ NONSENSE, GEORGE. FLOSSIE’S NOT A BLONDE.”
ne3S of his Piccadilly English, for there is no
man on earth, nor in heaven, nor in the other
place, who talked with so many potatoes in
his mouth or could put so muoh “ah" and
“aw” into as many words as the same Sir
Charles Mitchell. By the way, it is understood
that the Parke nan proposal to burgle the name of
Australia wa3 prompted by a desire to secure for
New South Wales an appellation which would
finish up with “ ah ” —Australia/!. It much dis-
tresses the denizens of Government House, Mac-
quarie -street, to have to live In places with such
plain names as “ New South Wales ” and “Syd-
ney," while their neighbours over the border are
privileged to reside in “ Melbawne" and “Vio-
toriah.”
* * *
When it was announced in Sandhurst that
George Lansell, the loeal quartz millionaire (his
neb income from Sandhurst reefs alone is quite
£250,000 per annum), was returning to Victoria,
the good people of Bendigo determined to bid him
weloome in real West End fashion. (George has
of late been living in a £60,000 London house
bo’onging to Jennings, the china-basin man, who
recently fell from a horse and cracked his skull.)
So they got up a requisition signed with 1000
names asking Mr. Lansell to dine with them at
Burrldge's well-known Verandah Hotel. The fall-
fed reefer, who, having lunohed at the Continental
and Metropole, liketh nob Bendigo “grub," said
“ No.” Let them, Instead of feeding him, make a
subscription for the Sandhurst hospital, and,
however large the total might be, he would add
to it £ for £ on the Government-grant principle.
So the hat went round, and the result was 25
shillings, 26 sixpences, 36 threepenny pieces—£2
7s. in all. Then millionaire Lansell, who dearly
loves a joke and has learned from M‘lntyre, M P.,
and others wbat banquet popularity means, added
to the subscription his little £2 7s.—aud the hos-
pital was enabled to purchase two new straw
palliasses for the erysipelas tent. No, Mr. Bur
dett Smith. We must really decline your kind
offer of a complimentary dinner. Please convey
our thanks and apologies to Mr. Dan O'Connor.
• # *
Lady Caringbon’s Centennial reception
was a heated crush of the flower of Asstralla
interspersed with members of Parliament. The
Russian Grand Dook—not looking a bit like the
grand dukes we are so familiar with in Offenbach
or Lecocq—was there, and the dark perfection of
his complexion was a good foil for the golden-
warm fairneis of Allen, M.L.A.—not the poet
One gentleman and lady from Mud Flat had
brought the baby along—a rather dissipated-
looking hostage in soiled woollen “booties "and
a hilarious pinafore spotted with plum jam. The
Arcadian male motive carried this infant gallantly
and walked a little ahead of his lady, who lagged
(we use this word quite innocently) behind with
her mouth open and two or thr v e feet of braid
trailing off her frock. As this original couple
approached vice-regality, the herd of butchers
and bakers elevated their snubby noses and
audibly expressed their scorn and surprise at the
“ oheek o' them cookies.” Lady Lily, however,
smiled as sweetly upon the seleetor as upon the
over-dressed daughter of any mls-fit city tailor, and
he unconscious trio drifted out on to the lawn
where light refreshments were dispensed to this
topsy-turvy assemblage.
* * *
la the convulsive struggles of the people
of Parramatta to find out which tree it was that
LadF Mary Fi'zroy was conoussed against when
Sir Charles took her for that fatal drive, they have
unearthed a few pretty stories about the lady who
ruled at Government Ho use in the back part of the
'5O s. Lady Fitzroy was mta sassiety butterfly ; in
fac j she was the sort of lady who would have been
called a woman by the ladies of the present time,
and, nowadays, a “woman ” is the pla'nest thing
on earth,froma “lady’s” point of view,barring only
a “female.” Shortly after her arrival at Govern-
ment House an ironmonger called round to leave
his card, and in doing so he made aoquaintanoe
with a nice looking—well, that was just where
the difficulty oame in ; anyhow he took her to be
only a female—in a print go wn, and he presently
grew familiar and gave her a £5-note with a promise
of more if she used her influence with the old girl
to get him the gubernatorial custom. It isn’t even
certain that he didn’t chuck her under the chin.
Anyhow, he got a letter next day to the effect
that Lady Mary Fitzroy thanked him for the £5
note, which she had bestowed on a certain
charity, and she didn’t want to see him any more,
and then the ironmonger learned that he was the
only man in N. S W. who had ever tipped the wife
of an Excellency, and he kicked himself sixteen
times and ate half a stove in sheer desperation.
* * *
Lady Carington and the Countess of Car-
narvon wore whits costumes touched up with
Centenary blue, and bonnets en suite, when they
journeyed out to Parkes’ Park to plant two droop-
ing Bpineless-looking herb 3 in the hot and arid soi’.
Her 1 ail ship tried to appear happy under a blazing,
pitilass noonday sun, and succeeded to a marvel,
as also did the sun. Baron Ca iogton, who rode
out to the scene of action, resembled a prize ox,
being adorned with a ridiculous amount of blue
ribbon, which most have been in the way when
he was gardening The Governors looked
as if they would be sorry when their colonies had
to centenniate too, and all, even seasoned Sir
Anthony Mu'grave, were suffering to such an ex
tent that the audieree could hear the perspiration
dropping off them.
* * *
The numerous Y.R.’s which glowed in
various parts of Sydney on illumination night
were truly instructive, conveying, as they did, a
great moral lesson in economy, These numerous
i atires were in great force on Jubilee night, and
the lavish Sydneyites hauled them out and stuck
them up—regardless of the misfit —to do duty for
“ the great national celebration." The illumina-
tion which, for beauty, won, hands down, was
the moon ; “ pale Cynthia,” in a clear and silent
sky, sailed calmly overhead, and outdid in Bilvery
glory even the sheen of the tresseß of the “ Hairy
Bismarck,”
e * *
A Melbourne paper publishes this aggra-
vated outrage in connection with the unveiling of
the Queen’s statue
Everyone apoeared to be admiring Lady Carington, who
made the prettiest of pictures in a white dress trimmed with
black befnre the shrouded statue, and who, with a half-
amused look, watched a fight in the crowd.
We trust to live long enough to lay a live hog
upon the tomb of the dull clod who wrote that
paragraph. Hinnom’s vale of slaughter isn’t a
half-grown circumstance compared to our wrath
when we tackle an insult of such demenslons.
TheN.S. W. Bush Missionary Society is
hampered by a big fat defloit, and has been com-
pelled to retrenoh, We have been expecting this
ever since the increase of the rum duty.
# • #
Noble-looking Sunday school teacher (to
small scholar) : “ Well, my boy, how did you like
the picnic? ’ Small scholar : “ Oh, it was bully
You should have seen the parson asking a
blessing on a sour bun and arf a horange!”
* * *
“ The fashionable walk in England now is
made up of two or three short hobbling steps and
a sudden jolt,” says an exchange. Young ladies
whose fathers have had extensive experience on
the old fashioned treadmill should soon oatoh on
to this. We expect it will be very popular in-
ah, oertaln quarters.
* * •
He was a curly-headed youth from
England's coral Btrand, and he was out in Austra-
lia skedaddling over the earth. At the time of
which we wish to speak he was at a picnic and
was flirting with a fetching girl—a little creature
with big brown eyes—under a gum-tree's shade.
Suddenly he leaped seven feet in the air, and ex-
claiming, “ I see a 'possum,” ho rushed for the
nearest tree. Of oourso the whole picnic followed
to assist in collaring the insect, and when they
saw that there was no 'possum abont they rounded
on the miserable youth and inquired about his
parentage and the size of his ears, also did his
mother know he was out. Ho became pale, but
did not retaliate, only he tried to get away be-
hind another tree, but the picnic persisted in fol-
lowing him. The fact was that all the time a
A “ Centennial Song,” ascribed to Phil.
Beck and Fergus Hume (which part was executed
by Beck and which was perpetrated by Hume is
not explained, but they scragged the anthem be-
tween them), appeared in the Argus. A slice off
it :
“Tho’ Australia’s birth be lowly, is Australia
then to blame ?
May she not look upward, onward, strive for for-
tune, power, and fame ?
If she gains by her endeavour glory in all nations'
eyes,
Shall her sons be deemed ignoble, having had the
strength to rise ?
Is it manly, fair, or honest with our early sins to
stain
What we aimed at, worked for, conquered—aye,
an honest, noble name ?
And those gutter pleasure is to stir
the hideous past,
L9b us leave them to the loathsome mould in
which their minds are cast.
Look ahead and not behind us, look to'what is
sunny, bright—
Look into our glorious future, not into our
shadowed night.”
It wouldn’t be kind to leave Fergus and the im-
mortal Beck to the little moulds in which their
l .ttle minds are cast. They are men and brothers,
in spite of colour, and The Bulletin will supply
them with larger moulds, in the hope that their
minds will gradually fill ’em out: —
If Australia’s birth was lowly, lay on England all
the blame,
Who did her level best to found a colony of
shame;
All our sons had’been ignoble, we had never risen
yet,
If England could have helped it, you jour bottom
dollar bet.
You may try to dqgfce the question, but you
dodge about in vim—
We have not the crime committed, though Aus-
tralia bears the stain ;
And the “ gutter ” scribes, who manfully rake up
the buried past,
Show at whom our foul foundation-stone should
rightfully be cast.
Look cautiously behind them, then look steadily
ahead,
And point in the direction where Australians must
be led—
Glean their wisdom of the morning from the les-
son of the night,
And testify their wisdom in the articles they
write.


Ktwrvhortv *ay»—and what e»er»body *af* must be truo-
that Pamelas HNow-wniTK Patent Roi.i.*r Plottb I* t e
hart In tho market •
When next you bake try Pemeir. Snow-whit* Boiabb
Iloitb, md von? hroid will bo »■ whit© a* tnow
Everybody ahouM me PemeU’* latoit, belt Snow-white
Patknt Rollkr Flour. I* 1» the greatest *uooob« of the
age *
A MONSTER ALLIGATOR CAPTURED IN
QUEENSLAND t
'A Centennial alig it or. ICO years old, and
measuring 27ft. <. long, was captured by a
Queensland miner, wlo was returning to camp 20
miles from Cairns. This monstrous reptile has
been consigned >o Geo. Bennett, of Sydney, to be
exhibited in public at the Bondi Aquarium during
the Centennial week. The miner writes that he
is a lazy brute, but says if he is let lotse he will
feed himself at, public expense. The miners de-
scription of the brute’s habits is amusing arid ex-
ceedingly entertaining. Instead of the alligator
hunting for bis food—which is a popular and ex-
ploded fallacy—is in fact a base alligation, and
the alligatar knows it; he lels his viciua’s hunt
him. He gently reclines tn a sand bank, with
mouth open, apparently dead. Soon a small boy
ventures into it, also a fly or two, a few bushels
of gnats a colony of mrsquitoes, then a stray
dog, but his trap is by no me»ns set yet A repre-
sentative of tr e rabbit pest presents his creden-
tials, a g.opher, a few snakes a kangaroo, seek
shelter under (he awning of his upper jaw, join-
ing ti e happ 7 family. A township of insects and
reptiles join the settlement. A solitary horseman
is now seen approaching, and unconsciously
strolled within a few feet of his saurian majesty
be Tore discovering his peril. He, h< wever, had
travelled, and nothing daunted at bis appalling
position, seems to hesitate but a moment when
drawing from the recesses of his overcoat pocket
a small parcel containing two bottles of that
famous St. Louis Lager Beer. He fires It with
force and precision ln‘o Ihe alligator’s jaws An
earthquake succeeds. The writhings and contor-
tions of the monster to obtain tte flavour of thiß
delicious beverage results in dislocation. He
gulps down the entire menagerie and opens his
front door for more. These are a few of the
habits of this Centennial Queensland insect.*
DO YOU KNOW
That the very best Blood Purifier and Spring medicine is or.
bell’s bitters. _ .
That it cures Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Head-
ache, and Kidney and Liver comilaints.
Thaf it is a wonderful medicine for restoring and sharpen-
ing the Appetite.
That it cures Scrofula, Salt Rheum, Boils, Pimples, or
other diseases of the Blood.
If you suffer from any of these affections, try dr. bells
bitters at once.
Dr bell’s bitters as a Blood Purifier has no equal. It
tones the sjstem, strengthens and invigorates, giving new
life.
The highest Medical Authorities pronounce it the only
known Specific for Kidney. Liver and Urinary diseases, that
it has no equal as a BLOOD PURIFIER, and that it is the
best safeguard against contagious risea-en, both acute and
chronic, keeping the KIDNEYS and LIVER, the great
organs of the body, in healthy condition, disease then being
jmpussyile.
ITT I T l m WILL convinca you of the wonderful cura-
VV MAI ti' 6 properties combined in dr. bell’s
"" 11J -*. 1 bitters, if the remarkable cures that have
been effected by its use fail to imoress upon your mind this
repeatedly proven fact. Thousands are using it, and all de-
clare that it is a 1171 I I medicine possessing all
and even mo-e than Vy | | ill weclaimfor it. My friend,
if y' u are sick, i r ' ' in that condition that
you cannot cad youi self either sick or well, go and get a
bottle of dr. Bells bitters, and rea'ise yourself how this
medicine hits the right spot, and /I AXTTT I \1 Ah'
puts all the machinery of you body I il I \ V I \ \ Jlb
into working order. vv/i ' * u/u
One of ouf prominent busioess men said to us the other
day: 1 In the spring my wife got all run down and could
not eat anything; passing a store I saw a lit of bell’s
bitters in the window, and I got a bottle. After she hud
been taking it a week she had a rousing appe; ite, and it did
her A world of good. She took three bottles, and it was
the test investment ever made.
PROVIDENCE
Helps those who help themselves. Nature has provided
heros for the cure of human ailments, and medical science
has discovered their healing powers, ard the proper combina-
tions necessary to conquer disease. The re-ult of thesa dis-
coveries and combinations is—
D/L BELL’S SITTERS.
For many years it has been tested in S9vere cases of Kid-
ney and Liver diseases, Malaria, Dyspepsia, Indigestion,
Weakness, Lassitude, &c., and invariably it has given relief
and cu e. Thousands of testimonials have been given, and
it is most popular wheie best known.
BUTCHER, FEHOtf& Co, Sydney.
AGENTS FOR
NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND.
.
Vital Questions 1111
Ask the most eminent Physician
Of any school, what is the best thing in the
world for quieting and allaying all irritation of the
nerves, and curing all forms of nervous complaints,
giving natural, childlike refreshing sleep always ?
And they will tell you unhesitatingly
“ Some form of Hops !! ! ”
CHAPTER I.
Ask any or all of the mo3t eminent physicians
“ What is the best and only remedy that can be
relied on to cure all diseases of the kidneys and
urinary organs ; such as Bright’s disease, diabetes,
retention, or inability to retain urine, and all the
diseases and ailments peculiar to Women ”
And they will tell you explicitly and emphati -
cally “ Buchu."
Ask the same physicians
“ What is the most reliable and surest cure for all
liver diseases or dyspepsia ; constipation, indiges-
tion, biliousness, malaria, fever, ague, &c.,” and
they wili tell you :
Mandrake or Dandelion ! ! ! !
Hence when these remedies are combined with
othors equally valuable,
And compounded into Dr. Soule’s Amerlean Hop
Bitters, such a wonderful and mysterious cura*
tive power is developed, which is so varied in its
operations that no disease or ill-heallh can possibly
exist or resist its power, and yet it is
Harmless for the most frail woman, weakest in*
valid or smallest child to use.
CHAPTER 11.
“ Patients
" Almost dead or nearly dying "
For years, and given up by physicians, of Bright’s
and other kidney diseases, liver complaints, severe
coughs, called consumption, have been cured.
Women gone nearly crazy l !!! I
From agony of neuralgia, nervousness, wakeful*
ness, and various diseases peculiar to women.
People •'rawn out of shap i from excruciating pangs of rheu
mutism, inflammatory and fchronio, orsuffering from scrofula.
I 'Erysipelas ,
“ Saltrheum, b’ood poisoning, dyspepsia, indigestion and
in fact, almost all diseases frail ’
Nature is heir to
Have been cured by Dr. Soule’s Hop Bitters, proof of whioh
can be found in every neighborhood io the known world.
tSF None genuine without a bunch of green
hops on the white labßl, and Dr. Boole’s name
blown in the bottle. Beware of all the vll*
poisonous stuff made to imioate the above.
I green head " ant was burying itself head first in
s person, and he was striving to endure ant and
mtumely in silence. No more particulars are to
ind as to whether the antor the youth triumphed
the end. We are iaclined to bet on the ant.
# » *
Everybody remembers tbe Moulton versus
laker trouble in Tonga. Somebody tried to assas•
Inate Mr. Baker, and in so attempting wounded
is daughter, who straightway took to her bed and
asn't got up since. Nobody is allowed into her
oom except her mother and father who speak
earfully of her sufferings, though the natives
,ver that Miss Baker is seen looking out of a
vlndow in a blooming state of health. During
he hearing of the dispute before Sir Charles
Hitcheil, Mr. Baker would be late in court, and
3ir Charles would say, “ You have delayed us by
four non-appearanoe, Mr. Baker.” And Mr.
Baker won d raply, “ My daugh er is much worse
30-day, Sir Charles.” Tuis statement came so
frequently at ias o that people began to wonder
how a lady could get Worse so fast and have a
nargin left tor bsing a lot worse still next day,
and yet continue to Burviva through it all,
* * *
A slight dls turban c a mingled with Im-
proper games took place on the Centennial night,
in the course of which a ballet corps was, as we
might say, disorganised. There was a spavined
pantomime on in the vicinity of longitude 117,
Australia, and a pale young man used
to hang about the stage door, and take two or
three or more of the ladies home. On the
occasion in question, however, he resolved to
explode In a great burst of generosity, so he in-
vited about six of the fairies to supper at a
suburban pub., where the beer is a gaDgrened
beverage, and the landlord is hypothecated, and
his wife has a mottled appearance, and her bustle
doesn’t sit straight. When the pantomime had
struggled through, and the ballet had clothed
Itself in the manner which is required in the public
streets, though the same isn’t always necessary
on the public stage, the gentleman, who had been
adjacent in the lane, put the company into a
couple of cabs, and the innumerable caravan of
the saints travelled on till they drew up at the
most down in-the mouth looking pub. they had
ever Been. There was the usual row over the
fare, but they left the young man ani one girl to
fight it out with the cabmen anl a loafer who
was backing them up, and shortly after peace was
restored and the proceedings commenced. In the
inner tabernacle of the grog depot a cable was
spread with a dozen bottles of alleged champagne,
some jam tarts, an aiamantine fowl, and a cork-
screw. The landlord was invited to partake, but
the laudlaoy, whose bustle waß more out of the
straight than usual, was not. The show was of a
loud and jovial character, and after a hymn had
been sung upside down even the landlord grew
exoited and put his arm round the nearest lady a
waist. Then his wife unhitched her eye from the
keyhole and entered. She thumped herself on
the chest with a tray which she was carrying
and asked with unnatural calmness what it
meant. The girls told her to go out and lose her-
self and she reflected on their hair. Then one of
them chased her upstairs, and the landlord threw
an empty bottle after tbe girl who was endeavour-
ing to assault his lawful missus. The after pro-
ceedlnga were too painful to relate. Saffioait to
aav that when anybody saw a head sue or he hit
it right off, and in the grey dawn of the morning
a sad and bashed-ahout gang straggled home-
wards from that suburban pub. Next night the
ballet went mostly upon crutches, and an owner
is wanted for three chest-protectors which were left
upon the battle field. Also the pale young mm
is no longer adj acent in the lane.
* * *
A Chinaman who was an outicor patient
at one of the Melbourne hospitals met with an
untimely mishap, a few days ago, which nearly
sent him on to Joss’s bosom. The unrighteous,
moonstruck Mongol was being treated for a ee\ are
kick in the back, which had probably been
awarded him by the proprietor of a hen-roost,
and on this particular day, after receiving his
usual cask of hog-wash to be taken three times a
day he o?Borred an opportunity of gett ng away
with ths liniment of a lone widow suffering from
lumbago and sciatica, and he seized it both the
oDDortunity and the liniment. The ignorant
heathen supposed that the more medicine he got
the sooner he’d be cured, so he also annexed
several bottles of cough mixture, two boxes of
liver pills, some ointment, and about a gallon of
variety washes, and he went home and partook of
the lot. About an hour later he returned to the
institution in an express furniture van, and when
he had been loaded with emetic 3, and racked with
a stomach-pump he had lost all faith in t
pean wishy-washee.”
* * *
Says the S.M. Herald :
WANTED, a good second-hand Lady s Pony Phseton.
State price. . .
We rise to inquire what is a second-hand lady i
if? should define her as either a widow, or a
boarding-house keeper, but we are ignorant and
don't know.
* *
An exciting drama was enacted last Thurs-
day on board one of the steamers that plough the
vasty deep bat ween Geelong and Melbourne.
The good ship had not long started on her way
when a recently-married male citizen was ob-
served reclining in an invalid-chair amidships,
while his little birdie crowded on the edge and
fondled him in a manner which made the on-
, , weary and gave the man at the wheel a
»1»» <•»
traversed a'l the elderly matrons on board, soms
of whom had been there themselves several
times congregated aft to disouss the si uation,
and a deputation earnestly requested the captain
to shy the young couple overboard, or put them
ia irons for insubordination and incltingtheore w
to mutiny. The oapt tin, however, said he oouldn t
do it and the sentimen al business continued
to flourish. The bride talked to her young hus-
band in baby gibberish, and Bald, ‘‘ Tiss 00, den ,
Bhe also pinched him and tickled him on an
average 17 times a mlnu e by a 50 guinea watch,
wml? he lay passive and gloated like a gorged
frog This noxious business went on till a rising
was’imminent, but just ««the emot °ns
A * imcinonsfirs were ftbouQ to llnd vent in
riot and massacre, the young wife dived down
below and her lord and dude quitted the ohair
and walked aft Presently a lank, languishing
sojourner who didn’t seem to agree with the sor-
rowful sea waves fell into the aatteewith hisface
to the back, and groaned. Just then the gushing
bride returned and kissed him on the back of the
head, and then she lay on h'sehost,
round with a playful tug at h, » ear, and kissed
the front of him also. He opened a lack lustre
«ye and fixed It on her, and, reoognising that it
wasn’t the fishy orb of her boloved, she gave a
hysterical Bcream and fled like one smitten,
fetching down a slushy with a bucket as
she went, and, after falling down the hatchway,
she landed on top of the dinner In the cabin
below. The passengers doubled up in mad mirth;
the husband tore the stranger’s clothes off, and
called him bad names, and stamped on hig high
hat; and 20 men rolled on the deck in a state of
blind hysterics. As for the bride she was sesn no
more that trip.
* * *
At this festive Beason, when the national
heart almost bursts with generosity, and goodwill
to all men prevails, there is one graceful act of
charity which should not be left undone. Some-
one interested in maintaining the Imperial regime
in Australia might work up a decent speech for
poor Lord Caringcon, and, having put on it a penny
stamp and addressed it to Government House,
Sydney, drop it into the first pillar-box. There
will be no necessity to put into it any “er’s” or
“haws" —these things will be supplied by the
noble orator when he comes to work it off in pub-
lic as a little thing of his own.
* * *
Here is an interesting libtle circumstance
from Auckland (N Z). Bishop Cowie was leaving
that place, and was presented with the usual two
yards of oily gammon and the very unusual
purse of sovereigns. The oily gammon was read
to him by the customary prominent citizen, and
the dust was plankei down on the table in front
of the good man who was leaving. And what do
you think he did? The customary thing, of
course, is to deposit the coin lovingly next the
recipient’s heart and squash the address into his
tail pocket, but Bishop Cowie reversed the order
of things and carried reverently away the written
outpouring of his flock and left the 400 sovereigns
lying on the table. The stupefied treasurer sat
for hours with his eye fixed in a stony glare on
the abandoned cash; then his senses returned
and he fled to the telegraph-office and wired in-
structions through to Russell that somebpdy
should stop the steamer, for God’s sake, and in-
form the Bishop that he had slithered without his
filthy lucre. The distracted committee tore their
hair and asked if this was a'l a dream—a phan-
tasy of the night—and every moment they ex-
pected to see a red-hot prelate shoot round the
corner on his return for the cash. But the
minutes wore on, and at last a telegram came
back. The message had arrived too late; the
steamer had touched at Russell and gone on its
way, and the Bishop had vanished into the remote
regions of the infinite, leaving his coin lying on
the table. Excuse these tears. The committee
gathered up the dust and locked it away, and then
went home to repent of their sins and wait in a
dazsd condition for the cataclysm which is to
swallow up all things mortal when Gabriel’s fog-
horn booms out its note upon the startled earth.
• * *
In tearful solitude she sat and gazed upon the
scene
(She wore a most recherche dress of pale-blue
bombazine) ;
Said she: “Alas! he I adore will never more
come back ”
(The overskirt was mauve chenille, caught up and
edged with black);
A sharp report—a shriek of pain—the tortured
heart wag stilled
(We understand they laid her out in cambrio
deeply frilled).
* * *
Percy Albert Greg went out the other
day, at Newcastle, to fix up an Evening News
sensation of monstrous dimensions, He laid him-
self down beside the main road with two empty
ohlorodyne bottles, and then ha scratched his
miserable throat with a big, bloodthirsty-looking
knife, and smeared the gore all over himself
Having thus fixsd up the pantomime to the bast
of his ability, he started to roll about in agony,
and tear up the kerbstone with his teeth, and
make statements to the effect that “ she would be
free shortly.” A stolid passer-by found Percy
Albert Greg proceeding ia this style, and took
him for a circus advertisement or a puff for a
new hair-restorer, bub, after watching him for
some time, he concluded that something should
be done to him, and, taking him up on a shovel,
he pub him in an omnibus and dlreoted it to the
hospital. They tipped Percy out at the gate, and
the dootors shook him up and told him nob to
make an ass of himself, and, finally, he was
landed in the donjon-keep of the local lock up.
Even the magistrate, howevar, wouldn't have
anything to do with him, and, amid the coarse
derision of the Courb, he saeaked sorrow ully
away with his empty bottles and his razor and
the rest of his arsenal, and went home to his wife.
It was the meanest little suicide within the
memory of man.
* * *
" Lady Carlngton's reception yesterday was an
unqualified success." —Evening News.
This little butterfly sentence is gathered from
amongsb the flowers of rhetoric and possy in the
“ Brevity ” column of the Evening News. It looks
innocent enough ; there is nothing in it to suggest
anguish and grief and boiling tears, ruin, de-
struction, desolation, and bailiffs, but, neverthe-
less, it contains the germs of hideouß evil, and the
seeds of insolvency ara hidden in its calm, un-
rotliei depths Lady Carington's reception was
an unqualified success. We reckon that ib was.
Oat amid the de.olate public-houses of Surrey
Hills (Syduey) there lives a widow with a time-
payment mangle, which weapon is her only avail-
able means of support. Her daughter, the one
solaco of her declining years, used to welt the
dishes and carry np the coals in the palace of a
bloated aristocrat in the suburbs, but a few weeks
ago she shook off the yoke of this swell and married
a young man wi'h a email salary. Her mother
remained, however, in her humb’e home, and
rolled the ceaseleis mangle round in its orbit; as
before. She was pursuing this avocation as usual,
the o her day, and the half-paid for implement
was whizzing in its wonted circle, when the
shadow of a large yellow bonnet was osst upon
the fltor, and the lady outside asked the woman
inside if she would like to oolleot a few shillings
for the Parkes charity. “ Lot bless me ! ’ said the
owner of tho wot o&n I do for
Srenyparks, an’ me with that pile of shirts
that I don’t know how I’m to get through for
a month ? " The lady cast a lofty glance at the
mangle, and sniffed. “ Oh. well! you can get a
few shillings among your customers perhaps, and,
if you do we 11 put you on the committee, and,
leaving a small book in whioh to entsr the dona-
tions, she departed. For the next few weeks the
de36itei mangle was silent in Taras Halls, and,
whi’e the instalments were accumulating and tho
shirts lay neglected in a heap, an inflated washer-
woman was skimming round the slums collecting
funds for the ex-Eiama GhOßfc. In tho evenings
she would come home dead-beat, and look with a
sinking of the heart on the growing mortgage
which sat on her paralysed time-payment shirt-
grinder, but then the recollection would return
that she was now a member of the committee,
and was privileged to sit in solemn conclave with
the toffs of Pott’s Point, and this cheered her
drooping soul, And so time went on, till at last
the apex of her glory was reached and her mag-
nificence culminated. The lady with the bonnet
came round and took the money she had collected,
and informed her that the committee ware all ex-
peoted to be present at Lady Carington’s next re-
ception. That night also the time-payment
mangle was silent, and its wheels failed to revolve
ovar the tail of tne emotionless washing bill. Ire
accumulated garments which should have been
sent home a month previously were ab undone 1, and
the owner of the com a rose laundry-organ went out
and mortgaged herself for more than she could P ; J 7
in twelve months in order that she might scintil-
late in eleganc attire at the reception. Then she
hunted up her daughter, and she also bought clothes
on such an aiarmir g scale that her husband won t
be able to p*y the bill till next Christmas. They
both shone in the gubernatorial halls and were in-
troduced as being connected with the committee,
and there were high old times in the rent-fiee
premises of Smith. And now the show is over,
and it begins to dawn on a distracted and raving
washerwoman that she has been undone by the
Parkes tribute, and the mangle revolves franti-
cal y on its fooua far into the night in its efforts
to Btave off utter ruin, and its shriek can be
heard flying through the silent atmosphere like
the scream of a lost soul in a bankrupt laundry.
The nobility of Potts Point no longer smile at the
widow as they pass by, and the hypothecated tog-
destroyer is sliding down the glassy slope of
Avernus and dragging the distracted owner with
it to financial destruction. Unless Sir ’Encry, or
some other charitabla individual, subs iribes the
amount of the overdue installments this week one
member of the Parkes committee will probably
be left homeless, and will go out a wandere: and
an outcast to seek the cold hospitality of the
gutter, and curse with curses loud and deep the
day when she first heard the name of Parkes.
* * *
Two cadging sons of Albion hang out not
very far from Sydney, and they are fast
eating the location bare. One doesn't expect
much from the Englishman who says he is a
gentleman of independent means, and experience
has shown that there is less to be expected from
two Englishmen than from one. If any mis-
directed Australian happens to nod to this pair,
they both come in to tea next evening, and, having
damped themselves down, they survey the table.
“ Now do you know,” says the smaller of the two.
in a soft, insinuating voice, “ I always think that
a little cold meat pees nicely with tea," and the
fatted lamb is produced. “Aw—l’ve often
noticed that cold besf and lamb go very well
together. Haven’t you—aw —observed that your-
self 2” This generally brings the oold beef also to
the fore, and the pair sail in at a great rate.
Then one leans back in his chair end says
in a voice of deep introspection, “It’s a good
many years now since I consulted a doctor—you
remember the fellah, don’t you”—his mate re-
members the fellow—“ and he told me always to
eat pickles. Now, do you happen to have a
pickle 2 I really don’t like to trouble you ; I don’t
indeed.” Smothered execrations and pickles
Then the other Englishman takes up the
parable in the thoug ,tful voice of one who is
musing at a great distance : “ I’ve often—ahem !
—noticed that—aw—jam is an excellent—eh—
thing with tea.” He mentions this as if he were
stating an abstruse fact in science, and his look
of wild surprise when the jam arrives is some-
thing worth remembering. At the same time, he
reacnes to the uttermost bounds of the table, and
softly extracts the milk-iug from Its place teside
the hosteEß and pours the whole contents into his
cup. In the course of the entertainment the pair
graza on everythieg which th y can lay their
hands on, and next day they arrive in time for
dinner, and start afresh. When that meal comes
to an end they fall back in their chairs with a
sigh of oontentment, and one remarks, with a
bland, gentle smile. “Haw, now that dinah is
ovab, d i you know I almost—haw —wish you had
asked me to stay to tea.” It is a cold day when
these two sons of Briiain are left; in fact, they
were bowled out only one?. Aa unhappy clerk,
at whose lodgings they had dined for six nights
successively, took to dining out himself to get
clear of the incubus, and then they sat for two
mortal hours on his doorstep, in the hope that he
might return and feed them. Finally, they at-
tempted to negotiate a meal off his landlady on
the sbrength ot the acquaintanceship, and were
left. It was a tight placs that they found them-
selves in, but they made it up by a good dinner
next day at the house of a man whom they called
upon because they thought he resembled some
one their father had known many years ago in
England, and they were much surprised to learn
that he was a different individual altogether.
Still they stayed and dined with him for the sake
of the resemblance, and next evening they came
in at tea-time to ask if he was qui’e sure he
wasn’t the fellah they meant.
Mr. A. J. Ivimey’s new book on North
Queensland will be out shortly. It treats of every
thing from Separation to “ Northern barmaids,"
and if the author’s anticipation* arc realised will
be the death blow to Psalmyell of Wale?.
When the Sidney quack meet} with a case
which he cannot fully comprehend, he generally
takes down the nearest bottle and has a random
shot at the human Inside, after which he waits
results. One of the se met. ical luminaries re rent ly
found himself more puzzled than usual, but he
disguised bis emotion, and wro e a brief para
graph in hierogljpales, and the pafient took it
round to the chemist and clamoured for
his medicine. The latter public ter vane,
however, declined to oblige him on the
ground that ihe compound was a violent explo-
sive, which would blow the vi .als out of him at
the very first) go, and spatter him all over the
wall. This adds a new element to the beautiful
uncertainty of medical science. Once the con-
sumptive sufferer used to die softly, with a sweet
smile on his features, but now the chance is that
he will go off like a volcano and wreck the whole
street, and the anxious mother who si s
up at night will start at every noise,
under tha awful impression that her sick
baby has blown up like a bomb. Life is
alreadv sufficiently precarious without this
addition'll danger. It was never intended that the
departing Christian should remove the entire
locality with him in his flight, and arrive at the
Golden Gate in the form of hash-never. Man
dwolls for but a short space in this sublunary
vale and he was meant to quit it quietly and
without a riot in his Inside. It is time for the
new Medical Bill to hurry up.


Academy o f mus i c.
L;ssee end Manager ... Mr. F. E H scocks.
THE HOUSE OF MIRTH AND MUSIC.
THE POPULAR RESORT OF THE PEOPLE.
CROWDED NIGHTLY
ui witness
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS AND
SPECIALITY UNION
See Thtm and Jndgi for Vourselve3.
TH ■A T K B ROTA'.
Under the Direction of
Meesre. WUllamaon. Garner, and Mnsgrov*.
Leasee, Mr, Sam. Laisar.
GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
or
Harlequin and the King of the Cannibal Islands.
Prloes Dress circle, 53.; Stalls, 3s ; Circle, Is.
OE.IKK.O_S_ THE A TEE
Bole Proprietor ... Mr. John Solomcn
Business Manager Mr. Joe Davis.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Aotlng Manager Mr. A L Cunard.
INSTANTANEOUS and COMPLETE SUCCESS
of our
SECOND GRAND PRODUCTION.
The most popular of all the many
London Gaiety Successes,
A SPECTACULAR OPErtA EXTRA VAGANZA,
In 3 Acts
(written by Robert Reece, Esq.),
entitled the
FORTY THIEVES FORTY THIEVES.
Admission—sj,, 3s , 25.. and la.
Box plan at Nioholson's.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison.
Doors open 7. j Performance 8.; Carriages 10.30.
GO AND SEE
IN THE RANKS IN THE RANKS
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
and
Miss KATE BISHOP.
Prloes, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nioholson's and Co.’e.
J. P. MACDONALD, Aotlng Manager.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington.
VOX POPULI,
BY THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE WE NOW
STAND ON THE TOP SHELF OF SUCCES3
IV THIS OUR THIRD YEAR OF AN UN-
BROKEN RECORD.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
Orohestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Balcony, 6d.
GOOD NEWS. GOOD NEWS.
Engagement, and will appear MONDAY NIGHT,
Australia’s Comique, Mr. Walter P Keen, and
Mr Alfred Satitley, the famous baritone vocalist.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM, BATHS,
and PLEASURE GROUNDS
UNDOUBTED and BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of this
SUPERB BUILr>I«G
THE GREAT SWIMMIiNG BATH, 100 ft LONG.
Finest collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
ENTERTAINMENTS every AFTERNOON.
Open from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admissi m Is.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 8.80.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
of Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Condnotorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Direotor.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUND AND
GARDEN PALACE.
OPEN EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING.
SKATING.
SKATING.
SKATING.
SKATING.
The largest and finest Skating Rink in the
Colony. Large stock of new American Skates.
Look out for the
GREATEST NOVELTY EVER WITNESSED.
Admissission : GRAND STAND and GARDEN
PALACE, 2s. ; GROUNDS, Is.
The Whole Grounds Illuminated by Electric
Light).
ALFRED WYRUKD. Manager.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.80,
GRAND SACRED and CL VSSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Condnotorship of Mr. Chaß. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally look? after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons
Something goou on every week. For particular*
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reaoh of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defeno?.
Classes now open.
Whm ik Sydnby, if you mibb Folby’b you
HAVK KOI BMW THK OITY.
■ A
-1. ' v
UY& N
THE
Y*N
They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corset « I have triea."
Signed Mahi E KdZE.
t'ATKXT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not split in the Seams no
tear the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect Com
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita
tions. Every genuine Y 4 N
Corset stamped “ Y 4 N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. llfi.'
in oval.
Three Gold Medals I!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
/CRITERIONHOTEL, NARRANDERA, N.S.W.
Vy First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. 'Bus meets every train,
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietar
Good Sample Rooms.
DR. TUKE, M.R.C.S,
England.
laTge r? OUDd BOOK oa SELF-CURK
for all Nervous Diseases; price, including cost
T* Gd ,‘ ID , Btamp8 ’ I)r - TUKE guarantees
thorough and permanent cure In every case under-
taken after consultation, by letter or in person
Consultation costs nothing, and the Doctor will
?ot, yo AddreM- WhotheryOUr ° a9 ° 18 ° nrable or
Dr. TUKE. M.R.C.&, Eng.,
7 Spring-st.. Sydney.
SMOKE AND OHEW
irk mi m
TOBACCO.
MADE OF THE FINEST AMERICAN
LEAF.
The largest and best plug sold in
the colony for 6d.
My
&
N AW
CUT TOBACCO?.
On receipt of P. O. Order for £1 la. we wl
Immediately forward 31bs. VULCAN MIXTUR
In |lb. Packets, noted for its fine flavour, togethe
with a SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR PIPE i
case. And a nice TOB iCCO POUCH.
THE SMOKERS' CHRISTMAS BOX,
consisting of
SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR
or
MEERCHAUM PIPE,
and
ilb. finest AMERICAN LONG CUT RUBY,
sent to any part of the colony upon receipt o
P. 0. Order or stamps for 10s. 6d.
TO LOVERS OF A GOOD CIGAR.
Send your orders to us. and get a box of
REAL GOOD SMOKERS, for 10s. 6d.
Carriage free to any part.
GIVE US A CALL
When doing George-street, and you will find w
have the largest and best assortment
of
TOBACCOS, CIGARS, PIPES, TOBACCO
POUCHES, PURSES, MATcH BOXES,
and
All other articles apertalning to the trade
PRESENTATION WALKING STICKS.
COME,
If only to inspeot these. We have almost every
kind of stick obtainable, from the
stately
SILVER HEADED MALACCA
to the lowly
BAMBOO.
Varying in price from 6d. to £1 Is.
TO HAIRDRESSERS.
Your trade requirements,
OUR SPECIAL STUDY.
Send to us for anything you want in your line
We can furnish you with every requisite
from
A HAIR CUTTING COMB
to
an Amerloan, or any other
HAIRDRESSERS CHAIR.
We reoommend’you to send for one of our rasors
PLUM BRAND,
set ready for use. Manufactured expressly
for
HAIRDRESSERS.
N.B.—Hair made up in any design,
OWEST PRICES, WITH DESPATCH.
CBAIS MD IITEEI,
Tobacconists’ and Hairdressers’
Sundry men,
680 & 682 GEORGE ST.,
Between Liverpool and Goulburn streets.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
OUT THE ADDRESS OUT.
ROW’S
Dandelion Sitters
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for ohlldren.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upo
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remoi
ing all impure secretions than any other medioina
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will fin
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day afte
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. Fo
young people about half the Quantity twice a daj
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAY!
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of you!
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them mos
excellent, and superior to many others that I havi
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England,
Fort Adelaide, October 30 1886.
Gentlemen, —I have great pleasure in reoom>
mending Row’s D anelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver oomplaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
ourative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
sill who suffer from Liver oomplaint to toy them,—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness reoelved by
ths undersigned i—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness,, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leiohhardb.
Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
ows
‘•EMBROCATION.
%
Jill
iemyißjy
Row’s Steane’s Wine
is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex
or ohildren, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary oxcite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Row’s Steano’s Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. YOUNG LADIES can take
this when suffering from general debility. It's
only a pure tonic. Try it.
READ CERTIFICATE RESPECTING ITS
PURITY.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of ROW’S
‘STEANE"S’ WINKS, manufactured by Edward
Row and Company, I consider them a very whole-
some tonic, suitable for persons suffering from
weak digestion, being perfectly free from any in-
jurious chemictls, too often used in such prepara-
tions. They should become a favorite drink in
these warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M'KILLOP, analyst.
“Sydney, December 23, 1884.”
Row’s Steane’s wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent Bpirits.
TEETOTALLERS will find this newly-Invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the oravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
TRY THEM.
HOTEL-KEEPERS ALL KEEP
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
CONTAINING
ROW'S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU'LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
SOLE PROPRIETORS,
Edward Row & Company,
11. 11, IT, GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY,
The Goat.
A LEGEND OF BALMAIN.
ILot those the picturesque who chase
Put this do ??n in their notes
Balmain, it is a pleasant place—
A pleasant place for goats.
Extract from an unpublished ballad by ParJces
Chap. I.
A lady in Balmain has a baby. She doesn’.
Buckle it. They get a goat. The goat is in the
habit of eating papers and posters off hoardings.
Chap. 11.
One day the goat eats a Bt. Patrick’s Day Pic-
nic pester. It returns a violent Irish Catholic.
Its milk, of course, infects the baby, who, at that
abnormally early age, opens ics lictle rosebud
mouth to say, “To Hell wi h King William!’
Subsequently the goat eats a poster of the Orange
Lodge. The baby's ideal change, See., &c. You
can imagine the rest.
Chap. 111.
The name of that baby was John , M P.
i Britain, it is gene rally understood, will never go
u nder so long as her people hang on to the Bible
and the Established Chorch, and Freetrade, anc
respect their betters, and go to service regularly
and love their Queen and all her German relatives
and hangers-on. The orthodox British Christian
in fact, considers that his country has reached a
point of advancement which other nations would
do well to emulate, and his great effort is to bo:st
the little heathen up to his own standpoint. The
Parisian Petit Journal heard, in common with
the rest of the world, of these charitable en-
deavours, and sent over a representative to s' udy
the social life of London —the great city which
sends out hundreds of thousands of pounds an-
nually with a view to teaching the Hindoo and
the African the joint beauties of holiness and
rum. And this is what he writes
It is known that at this moment f amice reigns in the heart
of London; every day hands of people, emaciated, ragged,
or almost without ciothicg, run the streets, demanding with
savage cries, work or bread Up to the present order has not
been disturbed, but terrible troubles are to be apprehended
before long; they will burst out with the cold, which will
augment this hideous misery. Lately, when the first
riotous murmurings were heard, the weather was fiDe. The
mn, which loves England but little, smiled upon L-ndon
while the starving howled. With the return of the fcg
he number of the suffering will double, and the move-
ments of the populace multiply, becoming more
tnd ;n-ra menacing and terrible. Ah, the wretched of
Liondon! Their hell ins often te n desciibed, but there is no
ten that could adequately depict their degradation and their
orture. In the most miserable quarters ore encounter at
iach step the gin-shops, brilliant Assommoirs, display ing the
insel of their gildings soiled by their filthy customers There
rowds < f children in tatters come to fetch in chipped
aucers, pieces of teapots, and in remnants of vessels of all
inds the gin for which their parents are waiting—the gin
rhich maddens and kills, but which at least mokes them
orget for an hour the misery, without hope, in which they
re plunged There, all day and all the evening, women
■ightfully ragged, standing their elbows on the counter,
rink till they fall, or until they have not a penny left
herewith to aßk fcr another glass cf spirits. This applies
lually to the men, who hold with them most hide uis con-
srsation. In proximity to these liquor estaUishments are
lops where food is sold—small pieces of meat, half rotten;
ixtnres of straw and tobacco, deteri rated herriegp, rotten
;gs, biscuits spotted by the flies, fragments of cheese, the
ght and smell of which makes one heave with disgust—
icb are tie victuals and dainties which compcsa the men us
' the most ea,y of thete quarters of the populace.
“ Australia's ” Monster Consultations. Ascot
Valk Stakes, run Ma-ch 3‘d The Sydney Cup,
run Easter Monday, April 2nd. Each 3000 sub-
scribers, 20s. eich. First Torse, £1 500 ; second,
£600; third, £3OO ; starts) s, £300; non itarters,
£3OO, divided arnugst them. Trie Australian
Jockey Club Plate run Apiil 7th, 1888 3000
subs., 10s. each First horse, £700; tecond,
£2OO ; th’rd, £lOO ; starters, £l5O ; non-starters,
£tso, divided amongst them. Also one hundred
cash awards of £2 each. Please aptly early,
and register all letters to ensure safe delivery.
Address, “ Australia,” care of Mr. H I).»lveen,
Victoria Ca'6 Bote 1 , George street, Sydney,
N.S.W.*


Centrally
situated
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TOAUTHE LEADING
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
RR|SBAN E
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
SOUTH
OF THE.
EQUATOR
1
0
sm
I
CBJC* 1
5-
■it
u_
HP T E-i=
S 3
C>TDANIEUU
i
M
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH ML THE
mercantile:
HOUSES
BANKS &c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladles. Ladle/ Drawing-room, with amapMcent jew of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladles' and Oentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths. Wt COIIEM AL RIM.
All letter, and Telegram, applying for Apartment, will receive prompt attention. _
Aentlemen’. Smoking. Reading, and Corresponding Room.
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
T7"ictoria,.
THE CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO,
is the most fashionable Spring, Autumn, and
Summer resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladies Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every Convenience and Attention.
First-class Hotel Service. Accommodation for
200 Quests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Bal-
conies, Baths. Beverages Iced.
Cbas. E. Sparing & Si,
PROPRIETORS,
LATE OF
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
THE PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, la the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Rlverina District. Mr. J. H. B, SPEAKING'S
30 years’ experience as a Public Caterer is a
guarantee of the Comfort, Convenience, and Con-
sideration all Guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public
Baths. Alcook’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony
out of Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter
Resort for Invalids,
S. B. Spiring,
PROPRIETOR.
This BEER
awarded ab
Adelaide Ex-
hibition Fikbx
Pxiek Gold Medal.
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
BDIJSTBURQH.
R. OUNYNOHAMB, Bond-street, Sydney.
in bulk
and case,
Beat BKER
In the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BRIGHTON OE 3ST.S.W-
-AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers. Private Dinners, Evening Parties, &0., are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here a'lso you can have good company, good wines—ln fact, everything that can possibly make one
StotobU,oanbe foundat this real li firsbolass hotel. Fishing and plonlo parUes Provided. TaiU
de Hote at 1 o’clock dally and Sundays. No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her visi-
tors oomfortable, and her Hotel the best in the Colonyi
union ame, ana ner uuu uoou **»
MRS. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
nuDnairn noniw Rnino
TO PERSONS RESIDING IN THE COUNTRY
OR THE ADJOINING COLONIES.
If you want anything In Sydney. Bend to
R. GIBBINGS & Co.,
GKEHSTEIRA.L .A-GHHUTTS,
OF _
823 GEORGE STREET.
BYDNEY.
ALL KINDS OF BUSINESS TRANSACTED A 1
THE VERY LOWEST RATES.
The introduction of New Linos and Patents a
Speciality.
Arrti iiroiß
Copyrighted. \
konsuche *nd WMsksrs.
tloyd’e Beard Elixir did thto.
I ,„d will do it on either bald
'bead nr barr fan Form
heavy tfouetaehe in from 2 to
4 weekeand never fail*. 30,000
young win already war full
brnrdt, having need Ito 3 pkte A'O injury, tartly applied, nrtain
in effect. Packete, U M each 3 for 3< Od. poet paid, eetii under
tover , free from ohs.rvafitm iddr«m, KmiUonglM* oOli Ay n ,
Boar
•tFoits * f
(jbttvHffMM
JA’S'S PKINOP OF WALE'B HOTEL,
ST. B ILDA.
THIS first Class Hotel offers superior accommoda-
tion to visitors acd residents, being in a healthy
and central position, fronting the Bay, near Es-
planade and Baths, and within five minutes’ walk
of the St. Kilda Railway Station. Private Buites
of apartments. Ladles' drawing room. Gentlemen b
smoking-room. Hob and cold bathß without
extra charge.
Clgrax 3DIT7-®,rx
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
OABTLKRRAGH STREET.
bJjSydn£t} s
m JCNOLAN'OAVCS.BLUt MOUNTAINS*
316 GEORGE SS fcrrww HumtoiSTaCßO*
Everybody l
SHOULD UBKJ
PEMELL’b
BXTBA SUPBRVmV
FLOTJB!
IT IS If ADB PROM THB BBBT WHBAT
In * Mill replace with the newest end most approvei
Nnw Pnucnae Maohihbbv,
The PRIOB Is VKRY LOW, end Che QUALITI
la QUARANTBBD VBRY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
831 Georgbsybeet, Sydney.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
mil „ Q _ j Family Hotel la constructed on the most modem principles.
Saltea of Apartnent. M or
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central Hydraul Lift for Gnesta>
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor,
READ
“The Lithgow Enterprise,
AND
“Australian Land Nationaliser.
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW, N.S.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
JOIEHjT iT i-
IT Is the authorised organ of the Land Nationalisation Association of New South Wales. Its
obieot is to firmly inaugurate in Australia Henry George’s great scheme of Land Reform to do
for £22 is doing for America. It has already a more wide-spread
circulation than any country paper in the colony, and reaches nearly every part of New South Wales.
It is smartly and fearlessly written, and every man who has the interests of his fellow-men at heart
SJSdSE Sice Others to do so. Everybody interested in this movement who does not al-
ready belong to the Association is requested to write to the editor.
tpitp mTRSORIPTION IS—l2s. PER ANNUM.
AGENTS WANTED. LIBERAL TERMS GIVEN. SEFD FOR SPECIMEN COPIES,
THE GREAT TO )KaK ESTATE,
coiner of Toorak and Glenferrie Roads, 1 COR iK,
WILL BE
SOLD BY AUCTION
IN VILLA AND MANSION SITES
on SATURDAYS, llth and lBih February next.
TERMS : 10 per cent, deposit; balance, 3,6, 12,
and 18 months at (i per cent.
T.T E. CHRTIFiCATE.
Solicitor to the Estate:
W. H. I.EWIS, E-.q., 95 « ollins-st>. W , Melbourne.
Sirvkyor :
LLOYD TAYLEIt. tt q , 53 Ut'le ColUns-st W,,
Melboui ne
Auctionksrs in conjunction.
MUNRO & jBAILLI*,U, Ccllins st . hast.
h S. TUCKrTT, Collins at West.
THOS. F. CUMMING, Corner of Collins and
Willi *m Streets.
J, J. BRENNAN, Grattan st., Carlton.
From wnom plans and all particulars can be
rbtained.
The Hen T. F. Cunningham, M.L.C., Austra-
lian Club, Melboirne, will pur chaise allotments on
receiptof instructions for country buyers whocan-
not attend the sale at the lowest rates.
THE land is the best ever yet submitted by
subdivision around Melbourne, and it is
admittedly the acme and perfection of ihe most
fashionable, the healthiest, the most charming,
and the most romantic spot of Toorak, which, it
is needless to Bay, stands without a rival amongst,
the suburbs of Melbourne. The Estate, which is
surrounded by Marsh ns, has a beautifully pano-
ramic view. For accessibilitv to the City the
Estate excels all other fashionable residential sites.
By road it is about C, miles from tbo Post-eiiice ;
by rail it is considerably less. The Glen Iris R ail-
way branches off from Burnley, and after travel-
ling one mile and three-quarters reaches the Rail-
way Sta'ion to be er< c ed on Mr. Ferguson’s pro-
perty at the Glenferrie-road. This St vtioa is two
minutes’ walk from the GREAT TOORAK
ESTATE. By rail the Ci<y will be reached from
your breakfast table comfortably in fifteen
minutes. The Toorak Tram, now in course of
construction, will take you from the heart of the
City to within eight minutes’walk of the Kslate
for Thrceponco, and the omnibuses from the ’Tram
Terminus to Malvern pass the Estate. Gas and
water laid on. Drags and Conveyances will meet
intending purchasers at South Yarra Station.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
MOUNT GILEAD.
Situate upon the Great S juthern Line of Railway
four miles from Campbelltown Railway Sta-
tion, and less than two miles from Menangle
Station, divided by the Nepean River (to
which it has nearly two miles frontage) from
the FAMOUS CAMDEN PARK ESTATE.
ALE A, 2063 ACRES
TITLE. TORRENS’ ACT.
MILLS and PILE have received instructions
,from Edmund B. Woodhouse, Esq., in
consequence of his intended departure from the
colony, to submit to auction, at their rooms, 130
Pitt street, Sydney, on THURSDAY, 12th April,
at 11 30, the above
MAGNIFICENT FREEHOLD ESTATE.
MOUNT GILEAD is distanb from Sydney only
two hours by rail and road, being only 30 minutes’
drive from Campbelltown Station by an excellent
metalled road. The property is unique in charac-
ter, and the auctioneers can unhesitatingly de-
scribe it as one of the most valuable and highly im-
proved properties ever submitted for Bale in the
colonies. About 1600 ACRES have been cleared
of dead wood and unsightly trees, leaving only
valuable living timber, giving the Estate a Park-
like appearance, resembling an English Country
Seat.
TWO MILES FRONTAGE TO THE NEPEAN
RIVER, and ONE MILE FRONTAGE TO
GEORGE'S RIVER.
MAGNIFICENT ARTIFICIAL LAKE
WELL STOCKED WITH ENGLISH FISH.
BOATHOUSE AND BATHINGHOUdE.
Homestead of 10 rooms, extensive outbuildings,
stables, granaries, billiard-room, underground
tanks, &0., &o. Water laid. Gardens, Orchards,
&e. Elevation above sea level about 600 ft.
CLIMATE SUPERB.
VIEWS GRAND IN THE EXTREME,
extending to the Blue Mountains.
*** It being impossible within the limits of ad-
vertisement to do justice to a property like
MO JNT GILEAD, a descriptive ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLET is in course of preparation.
The Estate will be submitted in one lot, and
should the proprietor fail to obtain a price com-
mensurate with the value of the property, it will
then be submitted as per Plan of Subdivision in
FARMS FROM 50 ACRES to 100 ACRES EACH.
Intending buyers may inspeot at any time upon
arranging with either the Proprietor or the
Auctioneers.
TERMS AT SALE.


THE CENTENARY.
Sydney En Eete.
NOT as Rip-van-winkles, or any other cen-
turian sleeping herds, do we arise ; but as
members of AN ALWAYS ACTIVE community,
we place our claims before tha jublic for their
support and consideration.
WE ARE THE PREMIER ' •AM MANUFAC'
TURERS OF THE COLONY.
IN BEDDING we have 73 Carding and Curling
and Twisting Maohines, and 12 Mattress-makers
IN UPHOLSTERY we have 13 Machines, 19
Benches, and 29 Men.
IN UPHOLSTERY a- d BEDDING we have 25
Machinists, and 14 hand-sewing Upholtresses, or
36 in all.
IN STEAM CABINET and JOINERY and
FRAMES we have the Drying Yards, the circular
and straight Saw pits, 16 Saws, Lathes, and Cross
Cutters, and 27 Men.
ONE HUNDRED AND FOUR hands actively
engaged manufacturing in the FURNISHING
DEPARTMENTS.
No brag or blow, or clap-trap advertising neces-
sary after a recital of such plain facts as the forej
going.
WHETHER AS WHOLESALE OR RETAIL
PEOPLE we stand the occupiers of the PRE-
EMINENT POSITION, and, indeed, have few
competitors in these special branches, in either
the old or new countries.
Take Bookcases, we do them from £4 10 to £2O
~ Chests of Drawers ~ „ £1 5 „£6 10s
~ Wardrobes ~ „ £5 ~ £2O
„ Cheffonlers ~ £2 2s 6d., to any price
Safes ~
Tables ~
Pier Glasses ~
Drawing-room Suites
Dining
lls 6d to 20s
13s 6d to £l7
15s to 20s
£8 10a to £37 10s
£5 153 to £75
Chairs, from 2s 51, 2s 9d, 3s 6d, to 15s
And after perusing the above brief summary be
sure you bear in mind the OLD, OLD, OLD
HOUSE for Bedsteads and Bedding.
Who ran compete with us ?
Who can touch us ?
In quantity and quality we are clipper built,
and, in the language of marine insurance, A I.AT
LLOYDS.
See our Stretcher Chair Bedsteads, at 12s 6d
to 40s.
See our S retcher Chair Bedeteada, with
Cushions, at 21s to 755.
See our Mosquito Curtains, at 4s 6d, 5s 6d,
7a 6d, to 16s 6d.
See our Dimity Hanging’, at 35s to 60s.
See our Beautiful Bras-mounted Bedsteads, at
25s to £l7.
See our Wire Matressss, at 153 6d to 50s.
See our Kapok Matreßses, at 20s to 60s.
See our Hair Matressas, at 40 s to 955.
See our Palliasses, at 6s 6d to 15s.
LAWLERS HOUSEHOLD COMPANION or
ILLUSTRATED FURNISHING and OUTFIT
GUIDE can be had free on application by post.
FAMILIES WILL SAVE POUNDS IN THE
COURSE OF A YEAR BY IT.
Visitors to Sydney will miss a sight if they omit
to walk through the SHOWROOMS of the
CENTRAL EMPORIUM,
608 GEORGE-STREET.
OUR IMMENSE CARPET and FLOORCLOTH
SHOWROOMS are heavily Btocked with the
newest and best goods procurable.
See the Mats, Is 61 to 3s 6d eaoh.
See the Rugs, 6j 6d to 703 each.
See the Carpets, Is 3d to 7s 6i per yard
See the Curtains 33 6d to 63 i per pair.
See the Floorcloth, 4d to 4s 6d per yard.
IRONMONGERY, GLABSWARE, CHINA and
E ARTE UN WARE receives our cQnstant atten-
tion.
Exquisite Dinner Services, 24s 6d, 32s 6d, 455,
os.
Beautiful Breakfast Sets, 19s 6d, 22s 6d, 27s 6d,
°Cruets, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d,
5s 35s*
Knives and Forks and Spoons at any prioe.
Town and Country supplied, and at shortest
iotloe.
Take Lawler s BOOTS and SHOES home with
ou and save money.
Take Lawler’s MERCERY home with you and
ave money.
Take Lawler’s HATS home with you and save
noney.
Take Lawler’s TOWELS and SHEETING home
rith you and save money.
Take Lawler’s LADIES LOVELY CORSETS
ome with you and save money.
Take Lawler s LADIES’ GLOVHS home with
ou and save money.
Take Lawler's DRAPERY home with you and
save money.
Take Lawler’s TABLE COVERS home with you
and save money.
Make a special point of visiting LAWLER’S
whilst down for the Centenary, and you will be
well pleased with your purchases.
All who buy
BETWEEN NOW and the 31st of JANUARY
will have an interest in
LAWLER’S CENTENNIAL CASH GIFTS
of
£5O, £2O, £l5, £lO, £5.
L A W L E R’ S,
STE JDNWST-
m
f.
1
NT
w.
A A
Ihe S.M. Herald sadly states that “ the
Aust'alian tribes have no rel’gion and no god.” A
long course of viewing tbe peculiar brand of faith
of the bush missionary and the odd antics per
formed by his special Providence have led, we
expect, to this deplorable aboriginal moral dark-
ness. Feeling we have stupas* ed ourselves in the
last sentence, we will hastily and humbly take up
the usual collection.
It is a Bold Statement
To say that any Medicine is “never known to
fail,’ but it is stated emphatically by the pro-
proprietors of dr, bell s (Kidney and Liver)
bitters The medicine is a specific for diseases
of tbe kidneys, liver and bladder, and has a re-
putation of thirty years’ standing.
You cannot do better, if you feel dull and languid, and
out of ports generally, than to try Dunstonk's Compound
F ssence cf Dandelion. A few doses will brace up the
nerves, c'ear the brain, and make vou feel fit and well. A
perfect blood purifier and strengthener of tne whole system.
Read testimonials wrapped with each bottle as to the mar-
vellous efficacy of this preparation. A sure cure for all Liver
and Kidney Disorders, as well as Gout, Rheumatism,
Sciatica, and ad Nervous Diseases. Sold by all Druggis‘s
at os. per bottle. Wholesale agents: Elliott Bros , Ltd ,
Sydney,
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-street Arcade.*
Tattersall s Monster Consultations.—Carrington February
G-and Handicap, 5000 subs, at 20s. each ; First Man, £2OOO ;
Second, £750; Third, £500; Fourth, £250; Starters, £750;
Nonstarters, £750; also Newmarket Handicap and Aus-
tralian Cup, 2000 subs, at 203. each, now open and filling
rapidly. Apply Tattersall, care G. Adams, Pitt-sweet.*
William s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simplein application—su eln effect This is the only genuine
Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to all kinds
of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal life, and
therefore may be used without the slightest apprehension
For the extermination of Mosquitos especially, the Insecti-
cide has no equal—as the fumes of the burnt powder, while
throwing off a pleasant odour, are at the same time most
dest uctire tolhem. Sold in la. boxes by all chemists and
storekeepers. Manufactured cnlv by W. Williams,
Pharmaceutic’ 1 Chemist,2s7 King-street, Newtown. Whole-
sale from Mess s E liott Bros , and E. Prosser & Co.*
BE WISE AND HAPPY.
If you will Btop all yonr extravagant and wrong notions in
doctoring yourself and families with expensive doctors, or
humbug cure alls, that do h- rm always and use only
nature's S'mple remedies for all your ailments—you will be
wise, well and happy, and save great expense. The greatest
remedy for this, the great, wise and good will tell you, is
Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters—rely on it. iSea another
column.—' 1 Press "*
A London correspondent writes to &
Sydney daily that “ the Queen has gained grea
success this year as an exhibitor of fat stock
This is about the twentieth time that this valuable
item of news las been gent along. Evidently tl >
London correepordents are anxious to impreei
upon the people of Aus ralla that Her Graciom
is raising a better class of animals than heretofore
NO GOOD PREACHING.
No man can do a good job of work, preach a good se
mon, try a law suit well, doctor a pa ient. or write a goo
artio'e when he feels miserable and dull, with slug, ieh bra'
and unsteady nerves, ar d none should make the at empt ii
such a condi'ion when it can be so easily and cheaply »t
moved by a little of Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitiers. Se
other column —“ Albany Times. - ’*
A Good Remedy for a Cold —On going to bed take
dose of Freeman’s Chlorodyne, either in vattr or camphc
mixture The diaihoretic action of this excellent remed
Bpeedily produces a general glow, followed by a free peispiro
lian, during which the pulse improves in character from
feeble to a full, elastic one, a good night’s sleep is obtaine<
and on waking in the morning the cold will be found to hat
disap;earered. The eeitainty of the aotion of Freeman
Chlorodyne is very remarkable in Ague; it frequently prt
vents an attack, or, failing this, reduces the violence of th
ague fit to a minimum. In many countries Freeman
Chlorodyne has entirely superseded the use of Quinine, bd<
in the tea gardens of India nothing else is given for Agi
and other forms of Fever. A Physician writeß, “In a sub
tropical climate, such as New South Wales, Freeman *
Chlorodyne is simply invaluable ’’—Sold everywhere througi
out Ihe Colonies. Insist upon having “freeman’s" onl;
Reject substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark, a>
1 lephant.
Chronic Coughs, Cotds Bronchitis and pulmonar'
Troubles can be cured by !:cotts Emulsion of Pure
CodLiverOilwithHypophosphites. Wehaveabsolui
proof c f this from all sections of the world. Ic is as palatabb
as milk Iry H before it is too late. '‘Gentlemen:-1 thin!
it is only fair to you to say that my wife had been laid up .
month with a very sharp attack of bronchitis, counlej with
very distressing cough throu. h pulmonary affection of th'
lungs, and the cough had become so troublesome that sh
waß sca'cely able to obtain two hours rest in succession. J
obtained a bottle of ‘ Scott s Emulsion,’ which gave h<
immediate rrl’ef, and six bottles have restored her to hi
usual state i f health. lam gentlemen, yours truly,
February I7th 1886. Geo. Faulkner,
Timekeeper Hallamshite Works, Sheffield
Barge and small sizes sold by all chemists.
Insurance.
Insurance Is a good thing, whether applied to li’i
or property. No less a blessing is anything ths
insures good health. Dit bells (Kidney ant
Liver) bitters do this. It i 3 nature's grea
remedy. It is a mild but effioient cathartic, an
acting at the game tine on the liver, kidneys ant
bowels, It relieves all these organs and enablefc
them to perform their dutieß perfectly. It hat
wonderful power.
Iltfp
7R g Tf
mum i
in the Colony
Sl SYDNEY.
BEFORE TAKING,
(from Lira.)
" A merry heart doeth good like a Medicine.”— Proverbs 17-c, 22- v,
CAUNT’S PHOSPHORIZEFIRON QUININE TONifl.
“ KEQIBTERED,"
Contains all the elements essential to produce health, and
the only preparation which supplies the tissues with
food It has no equal. It feeds the Brain, Blood
Nerves, Cures Diseases of all kinds, Invigorates the
Mind and Muscles, Imparts strengi h to the Body, Restores
the wasting life to aotivity and vigor, mak«s the feeble
strong, and p-educes an exhileratlng effect upon the
whole system, Removes errors in eating and drioking.
Price 3s. 6d., from all respectable Chemists, or sent
direot from the Manufacturer, W. F. CAUNT, the
Pharmacy, Camperdown, Sydney,
Beware of Imitations. Take no Substitute,
m
AFTER TAKING.
(rsoM Lira.)
LATEST REVELATIONS.
Mr. W. R. Allen, of 9 Winkfleld-road, Balaam-
street, Plaistow, London (E-), writes:—“l desire
to inform you that my father-in-law, Mr Thomas
Wood, of Hill House, Offnam, near West Mailing,
Kent, has received great benefit from using St.
Jacob’s Oil. His case was that of a sprain in the
ankle, from which he suffered a great amount of
pain; he had tried various remedies without
avail. As I had heard a great many people speak
highly of St Jacob's Oil as a remedy for all pain-
ful ailments, I procured a bottle and sent down to
him, the contents of which he had used several
time 3, with the result that in a day or two the
pain and swelling from wh'ch he had suffered were
entirely removed. The ankle became well and
strong as ever, ard although this was several
months ago, there has been no sign of the pain
returning.”
Mr. E. F. Painter, of the London Athletio Club
and Ranelagh Harriers, suffered from a sprained
tendon for three month®, no remedies which he
tried doing him any good. A quick cure was,
however, effected by Sb. Jacob's Oil, and he was
able to resume his running and athletic sports.
The Bicycling News, London, says that St.
Jacobs Oil is without doubt one of the most use*
fal articles a wheelman can have in case of a
sprain or bruise.
Mr. T. Bann, i 5 Stonehill-street, Anil eld,
Liverpool, says ‘ I have tried St. Jacobs Oil for
neuralgia and the pain left me after one rubbing. 1 ’
&
s
NINE FEET AND SOME ODD INCHES
Is the length of the spring which runs the far-
famed Waterbury Watch. This information may
be relied on, and is supplied for the use of the
funny people who are afflicted with a desire to
work up some rew jokes on the subiect; and a
few fresh ones are hopefully looked for by the
many millions of wearers of that m ist excellent
timekeeper. Jf the length of the spring were
ourtailed and aouat two h'Tffl'-ed a rational
wheels, pins, cranks, s.fc . .um oogus
“jewels” were stuffed into the inside of a Water-
bury it would then more newly approach the
architectural magnificence of ths patent go as-
you-please chronograph, or the seductive “real
English lever” made in Switzerland for the ex-
press purpose of filling the State lunatic asylums
with hopeless imbeciles. But, alas! it would
cease to be " The Waterbury ” and would thence-
forth and forever resemble them also in the matter
of its performances. If you don’t know from ex-
perience the marvellous accuracy of the Water,
bury as a timekeeper, buy one—without any re-
gard to the length of the spring—for 13a. 6d. from
any storekeeper. Don’t give less than that if you
want a genuine Waterbury, or, if you do,
expect to get it repaired on the teims offered by
the Waterbury Watch Repair Depot, 56 Margaret-
street. The wholesale Sydney agents are t
Messrs T. WILLIS and CO.
FIELDHEIM, GOTTHELF and CO.
S. HOFFNUNG and CO.
COOL,
CLE AR,
SPARKLING,
PURE and BRIGHT,
HEALTHFUL, and INVIGORA-
TING, and REFRESHING.
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER.
WITHOUT A RIVAL.
The drink of all others best adapted to the
necessities of temperanc? advooatos and the most
eflioient thirst-quencher known.
If you have not yet experimented with it, do so
now. All flrst-olass hotels keep it, and it may be
ordered from Messrs. Mason Brothers, Limited,
Feeq and Co., Tooth and Co., Allb and Co.,
Burrows and Glee ion, Luoaa Brothers, R. Butcher
and Co,, J. T and 1. Toohey and Co., TidsweU,
Wilson, and Co , A. Thompson and Co., Daroy
and Co., A. Rowan and Co,, Tucker and Co„
Stewart and Co., Do Lissa and Phillips, and
others.
Taoro aro many varltiea of load pencil, but the
only brand worth remembering la the Dixon
Amorioan Graphite. Onoe used always asked


l33d.porta.nt!
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
THEE! 01STH"2"
HMiU 11STMEIT
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
6EORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Beg to inform their many patrons and the public
that, as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30thj they will sell
CHEAPER THAN EVERI
o
AOCORDKON3, at 7/8, 10/8. 12/8. 15/-, 17/8, 11 /■
25/-, 80/-, 40/-, to *6.
Speciality ! Patent steel noted Aocordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
M Patent German Silver Reeded Ao-
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
|B, 8/8, 7/8, 0/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 26/-,
SO/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German ... m 36/-
„ „ steel notes ... ... 50/*
7/6, 10/6, IS/-, 20/-, 25/-, 80/-, to £2O.
peoi&lty i Old copy Violin, with case, Bow
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
hi; ll *, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 80/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality i Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
60s.
1/6, 8/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10a.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality t 8-keyed Cocoa Conoert Flute, patent
sliding head, oomplete in case,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Bole Agents in Australia
vos
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
equm m sums,
Which oan be sent post free for 2/6, 8/-, 8/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a Bet,
Single ones in proportion,
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. eaoh,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Ib., and Is. 3d. eaoh.
Also,
■VERT KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Buitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Mar, 6c,, 6c.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
nigger minstrel troupes fitted out.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments oarefully paoked and sent to any part of
the oolonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of poet,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
•nimvi
Giticura
;// m)»
it*
5#
M
.Eczema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FEOM
vft!
V/
Scrofula on Neckb.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consignees,
K. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVED , the new Blood Puri-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cub* (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Kennedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
/it ikiud. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1..)9: Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing Jc/f, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by tbb
Potter Drag * Chemical Co., Boston. TT.S.ii
PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTRUCTIONS FREE.
LICHTNER and Co.,
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
IN calling attention to their extensive stook of Photographic Instruments, Chemicals, and all
necessary applianoes for the use of Professional and Amateur Photographers, beg to intimate
their intention of giving FREE LESSONS in the Seductive Art to all purchasers of a Photographic
outfit at their warehouse. The services of a competent operator have been secured, and beginners
are now relieved from all anxiety about possible failure. The young are hereby protected from pre-
mature baldness, and the middle-aged from despair.
By all the best makers from £3 upward, according to size and quality.
Idenses
Bearing all the best English and Continental Brands.
Slvu.tters
Of every deEcription, including the famed “ GUERIIY,” the best all round Bhutter
in the world.
THE VERGARA. PATENT FILMS AND SLIDES IN ALL STANDARD SIZES.
NOVELTIES BY EVERY MAIL.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
I 1
32 O’CONNELL STREET.
m
MASON BROTHERB,
ss i
as
LIMITS 1 '
208 to 200 Kent-etreet,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, lor
BALB to the TRADK and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
and
EARTHENWARES
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J, SORIN and 00, %
Cognac.
T. 'gA YEN'S
Schnapps and Genera,
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
M
0 VS U M > K *
In Granite, Marble, and Freeitons,
Iron Tomb Ballings.
Dailgna and Batlmatea forwarded on rtQMi
J. CUIfIfIXCIIIAI3,
aeAmn-sinan, W twwa aD-aeoAaM, Iymkbs
Xlrn® can recommend the Imperial Hair-Out-
W bins Saloon aa the beat In Brisbane.
Tobaooo and cigars of the beet brands, Address I
Temple Building, Oeorge-streete six doors from
Qnsena-ikrset. A« OOOPBK, Prsprlalea,
GBD.GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
of
Still maintain! It! Prestige and stand* pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforoe the Law against
alll person* imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231, OLARENOE-BTREBT.
GBD. GBD.
We have Large Shipment* of thi* BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Bhipmen ooming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
u
MAOKAY.
NSURPASBKD accommodation for oommer.
olal travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHKF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make oomfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Pabkir, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages*
bound In doth, and oontalns over 100 presorip]
tlons. Prloe, post paid, Bb. 6d. Descriptive
■ample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
hausMon and Diseases should send at onoe for this
valuable work. Address i Dootor W. W,
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourka Red
Elisabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vie.
jW T O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
BHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O'CONNELL STREB 1 S.
Full suites for dining - room, —side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY OHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and TUNING CHAIRS, al
to match. NEWTON AND LAMB,
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR
v Patented.
m
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in itß
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. KS We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Prioe, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
Packin in canvas, if required 2s. 6d.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably up
holstered, at all prices,
Occasional tables in an woods, immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &o. NEWTON & LAMB.
si
?
w
ALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDKSTA
WRITING DESKS, of varl
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves.
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Rn er and Pen
Racks, Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful commo
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
: r .
m
D
BA WINS BOOM OA
NETS,
EABLY ENGLISH
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
NEWTON AND LAMB.
Large stock of pianofortes by the
MOB? CELEBRATED MAKERS,
BENT-
WOOD FURNITURE.
A VERY COMPLETE
ASSORTMENT.
Many quite new designs.
NEWTON and LAMB.
EAST CHAIRS for Parlour, Library, or Boo*
rooms. jNTmw d*HU?n« entered to Oi dsr Ik
any material. NEWTON & LAMB.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
OCKINCTeASY OHAIKS. oietanta^rrest
ful, a specialty, NEWTON & LAMB.
BBDSTKADS, all slid
Mlokel-plated and Black
and Beau. »reat variety.
Bedding,—All descriptions at
lowest ratios.
NKWiON & LAMB.
SPRING MATTKASSII
Woven Wire, beat
make i also, Spiral Sprint •
Prloe, from lie. eaeN
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
18s. 6d. j Dining Tables, from 20s. j Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.) Washstands, from 12s. Bd.|
Oheßts of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.i Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.] Cedar Side*
boards, from £S 10s«| Clothes Horses, from 18s.
Writing Tables, with drawers, from SBs.
EWTON AND LAMP,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING ft O'CONNELL STREETS


7 1 /- / e 7etj£u T * ree ->
oj} 'Set v'upT'
SfifLl Gccrjp X S~ov& 7 6^r
'Si^e.a.f'y-
C-7/$ £*-&&).
2 '//- ct* £-^/c /re.y focnz.
c f° h 9 ojr
?^4
- /****'<?% ' Sa ' 6o
<ve cS Or <y "/ //
/yoTb #o4*
fcicTory 7£e*«y*‘*y
r r.u „
" JTa f ,
If it (o'tff f,f fy a foukt
6e e/J
o'ry ft TWripcjs""*-
/ Cf-~>ye‘Z <2fcc/sr?S
'//y T'O'J/S 7~C^ e
"j- yyj 7 r y //~ e
■ „ 7 6 Cty tf~
7'rcc yC f j cc 7cf oro£e r-<?y
.4- r 777
} c/jofera- /W/c i-o6i:
fry Ccc /A-
Crr/',c<xf A/' r ' r 7F^ r-
"TTs/oyis/}040<3 SuS/f/c.-
/o ct f fere.
Cl /-*-
/ii a A'
-7T<* a;/*, iff 7ii ,/-/*>■ r ° ■■
cftcdp cc~r?cf cocl' Z~e.su S.
\ u ft ]
I \>\ I / ~«>
J\ MnCufflU 0 - '
“TO .
*iialr i' 1 fc*
■
*v%- y 1
n — N '' v . » /
r „ '.■%.->**-/**■ "\
/ftc opt o'c/icA - Ci y Ajo/tj fyoro.’sf* /f«./<*V6 «r< ►
•
M. Pasteur’s Idea.


MiLMAM MMO&, MI&& * CO,
moaruotrawm,
MAOHOTEBY MMBCHAfiTTS
ilt aaORGI STKIBT, BTDHIT,
PtPBOIALITIKS I
Bans’ luring Machine, Asbestos lin-unil Flint, Alba Oubn Llgkt
RLHCTKO- PLATED WASH, OUTLBRT, TOOLS.
SAI OOOKINQ STOVKS 1-LBQNIB FLETCHER'S, JEANS fit WALKER'S
BRADFORD’S WASHING) MACHINES, fcO„ fed.
DUMSTOMB’S
COMPOUND
ESSEHCE OF EiNDELIOE
IS A CERTAIN CURE FOR
loiigtstioi, Liver and Kiiiej Disorders,
GOUT AID MHIATISH.
Read testimonials wrapped with each bottle and you will be convinced.
LIYER PILLS act as a valuable aperient and tonic in conjunction with
the DANDELION ESSENCE.
ESSENCE OF DANDELION, ss. per Bottle. LIVER PILLS, Is. per
Box. Of all Chemists.
Wholesale Agents, Messrs ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.
A LOVELY SKIN,
beautiful complexion, soft, smooth and delicate neck, face, hands and arms canbeet be obtamed
by discarding all leaden and greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, not being allowed M
ramain on the skin cannot possibly haye any good effect on it, and by usmg
ftowland^
n JCalyaor
A Cooling, soothing, healing and refreshing preparation for the face, hands and arms of all
exposed to the heat and dust of summer or the cold and damp of winter; it eradicates freclues,
lan, sunburn, stings, redness and roughness of the skin caused by cold winds or the use of hard
water, removes pimples, spots, discolorations, chilblains, eczema, etc., relieves inflammation,
bums, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skm delightfully smooth and
pleasant. Gentlemen after shaving will find it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin,
it is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, can be used with impunity on tna
skin of the most delicate lady or child, , . . ~ .. „„
4s. 6d. and Bs. 6d. per bottle; bottles of half the usual
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL promotes the growth of the hair, and
is also sold m a golden colour for fair-haired people.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and gives a
pleasing fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for BOWLANDS' articles, of 30, Hatton
Garden, London, and avoid cheap, worthless imitations.
ana xtemu HLuiott, tissue., end K. Probbh*' & Co., Sydney
OOTS
OOTS
T. WILLIAMS * 00.,
mFORxaRH o*
Bxitxsb # Foxxix* Hoots AShoxs ;
4110 Mtlural»*aar«H Of
Xn Wmme* uvAtnr ow Qoodm in fhm ahovm Liam.
378 anW 412 George-«t., Sydney.
HOES
HOES
(MELBOURNE CLUB).
Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513.
MRS. M. COl/ES, Proprietress.
**EE
PRESCRIPTIONS we a»
be found In the “LIGHT ANI)
SWL Ww weedy cure of Nervous De-
V^ a Kindred Diseases, too. A copy of tbt«
Mnti Urea, sealed, for six penny
Addreaa-.
«. WARD tc CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
*0 Hnnfeer-atraab. Sydney
q *huinb soda water
i I THE
Qhi U to k,
°*OROH hill, btdniz.
•'•rteot Purity Guaranteed,
HuT sea-water baths.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny's Bathß, St. Kilda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Bpirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and its after effects,
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
simply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Bathß.
A Stalling in every Family
Holloways pills and ointment,
There ii not a country in the civ tilled world where
the healing virtues of these grand medioinei have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers.
In all the ordinary allmenti of humanity their benefioent
action is at once recognised.
fullest directions are supplied for their use in every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxj-ord-st., London.
MT Purohassers should look to the Label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 588 Oxford-street London. Utae
are snnrlons.
riIAIJS BANK . OB MKW £ HSALAND.
X Sydn*t Bbanohes i
Si PITT-BTKKKT, and SSS GKORGK-BTKEET,
Paid-up Capital m „ 41,000,000
Reserve fund _ 800,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
dal and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N W. GIBLIN, Acting Manager,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE
BEECHAM'b PILL&
mTEOT
PILLS.
ax* admitted by thou-
sands to b» 'worth *
•Gffliaea » Box for bilious
a»d nerroiw disorders,
inch as wind Mid paw
las the stomach, sick ■
haftdftohs, gidonaese,
falneas as.d swelling
after meftls, disemes®
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flashings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
aess,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, 4c. The first
dose will give relief in
sehontee. This is ne fiction, for they have
s thousands of cases. Hvery sufferer t«
invited to try one box of these Pills, and
be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Wvr females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
m ft few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
©jut*, all ohstructious, and bring about all that is
atmmiffed. No female should be without them. There
Has a* medicine to be found to equal BEBCBAM’S
IBLLB for removing any obstruction ®r irregularity
«| the system. If taken accosding to the directions
given with each box they will soon restore females of
ail ages to sound and robust health.
Fer a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon tb#
Most important organs of the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the BOSEBUD
@f health the whole physical energy of the human
fessae. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and on® of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Beachnm’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH BILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness qf Breath, Tightness
sms Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, Ac., these
Pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
®ray of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Cough®,
Bfoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
Bwswdiiy remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
M breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
Wisy give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when nog-
Jwfsted, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
witt any of the above complaints give Bascatu*’*
<&9W»* Pills a trial.
fhe most violent Cough will in a short time be
wmoved.
OAimojr.—-The public are requested to notice the*
words M Bbsgham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Savaramont Stamp affixed tb each box of the PC**
If oot on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
S&* proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, Sft„ Helen.®,
S«Mafflashire, England, in boxes at Is. ljd„ and Ss. 9d
@fteh.~Sold by all Druggists and Patens Medicine
iMm throughout the Colonies. ,
WJL—-Full oirecttaa* are given wi» Htsm. * .
Gemmeraai notel, bympie, Queensland,
HE above Is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample room. 1
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals-
PARIS,IB7B; CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson's Newest Perfumes
FAGBJEA & CYMBIDIUHF
are of rare and peculiar tragrance, and being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth and
Improving the appearance or the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON S FLORIDA VTATER
an exceptionally fine perfume foi the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers, and or' the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, Lonoon.
, Trade Mark—“ White Rose'' on“ Golden a
Ik Lyre.” 'A
WE CAN RECOMMEND
13- IBTXGKEIISriErS
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
A the moat cm ml and well appointed of any in
C' v - the city.
WIG-SfrAKING and HAIR WORK
Frenoh and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Noth the Address-
-96 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.P.0.),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
i/TASONIC HOTEL, EAST-STREET, ROCK-
UL HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleaningß i—The “ Western Cham-
Hon" says > " I can recommend the Rockhampton
*Monie *>n my western friends.’
FIT2SHOX EOTBL,
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON,
m FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge--
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. ProprletSV.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, OOULBURN, N.S.W.
VTUKST-OLASB accommodation for oommerolal
gentlemen and other a, private fitting room*,
a nnla room*. JAMES HI MOWS. Pro nr la tor,
Guinness Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY;
BAbb’ PALE ALE.
SOLS FURVKYORB ta tfe®
shmumsai. ajkb dtdiam nxMiisram
LONDON,
By Special Appointment
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALGHIH, JQHfcSTOM I CO.,
Omauraltl Chambers, Bon«- sine*. Sydney,
G STEVENSON
Hat On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &o»
COOPERAGE
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
111
J, CRAMP, Pbopbietob (late of Rookampten),
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace, A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows t—Ss. per diem, All meals la. Off,
F
AStfiMA.BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
_ PftEPAREID ON CV BY (ft,
m)T h*c mas Ingham.'
*> 1 OCKHAM PT Q_NL
DRIDCES
FOOD
to. INFANTS™ INVALIDS
Has art enormous sale In England,
and is now being Introduced Into tile
Colonies.
Every Store It eeper should gftt e
as every wise mother will certainly!
use it.
BIL RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD HULLS**
LONDON. ENGLAND-
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AU THE
. NEWEST SHAPES.
.nd at QUEEN BTKBBT, BRISBANE, \
OHBIBTIE’S
QUEENSLAND EMPLOYMENT AGENCY,
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with ld*
formation.
79 Elizabeth-street.
BRISBANE.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
FIRST-CLASS TABLE.
Terms Moderate.
MUSGRAVE HOUSE.
Comer of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor. ' x
High-class Dentists* | at Reform Prices
roMPLCTESFT
MARSHALL BRO:
■ DtNTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
Teeth palnlmaly extracted under nTcrous oxraT
km daily at 11.


svj^ v
ROYAL
MWH|
A
c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
for quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
nnfflm, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
/east, saleratns, or cream of tartar, rendering
jhem lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
»a caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaton hot, even
by dyspeptics, with mpunlty. Maintains its full
strength In any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
POwdkk Co., 108 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co.,
N.S.W.
J£». SC. liARKIN,
WHLOH9ALH AND EU3TAIL
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT, AND IMPORTER.
THE FAMOUS £3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS CONTAINS I
S Bottles Brandy
1 Bottle Jamaica Rum
1 Bottle Port Wine
3 Bottles Whisky
1 Bottle Wolfe’s Schnapps
1 Bottle Sherry Wine
7 Bottles Lowndes’ Rum
1 Bottle 21d Tom
TOTAL, 18.
Securely Packed and delivered Free tx> Radfern Station, or any Wharf In the City, on receipt of *S.
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
PRINCE OF WMLES HOTEL
CORNER OF GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS.
CENTENNIAL SELECT BAR, 780 George-street.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIITsiNGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
ESTETW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ir.T.nWTKATIi: OATALOOUKS WITH FKIOB LIST, IRBI OH APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
VRNI, FUJI 71Oh
urn nmuß
For Arolatio Posing and Effective UgitM'
combining softness and brllllanofi
Photographs of
GHARLEMONT ft 81.
ROYAL AROADB,
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY ALO**.
BO THOU AND DO LIKSWIOI
we may
bath, made
SUMMER, with its heat, dust anddeP***JJ|
effects, is on ns, and one of the greatest ra*T| | g
enjoyfls a delightfully 000 l and
ide more luxurious by the addi» t ®* |gi |
little “Sea Foam Shampoo." Follow the
and you will And it a most beneficial and
giving adjunct to the toilet. It will ol e *®*ij-|if
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave them H 0
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringworm, fto»» 1
endorsement of the gpfi
head, and has the
medical anthorlties.
The words "Be*
medical ancnoruaes. ius worms |(
Shampoo” are registered, and any counter***
imitation of same will be prosecuted to «*
extent of the law. Sold by all ohemU*
dealers in toilet articles at the IOW priOO •*
shilling per packet,
will never regret it
Please try onepaokal*
|K
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON,
T
IHE above Is the only Licensed S*®*? 0
Rockhampton for holding ThaaW*** g
Entertainments, and can he enga***
other
any term upon application to _
OHAKLIB KAd*.
The Wonder ot toe
COLEMAN and Sons, Cootamnndra. Ip
awarded First Prize, at the Adelaide "Zpft
Cion for their PURE VOLATILE KUOAL*! ,U
OIL. The only known cure for Asthma jj|
affections of the chest. We have more bch'yjj,
testimonials than any medicine before the
This Is a genuine article. Posted to any jj,
on receipt of stamps. Price, la. 6d. and **•_
Agents, Hoffhung & Co. j Elliott Bros. Druf
CSiAP STA X slxxcL ACSOTTITT 800
PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
ADDRESS CARDS PRINTED OR ENGRAVED, ALSO BALL PROGRAMMES, MEMORIAM CARDS, &o,
MUSIC AND BOOKS BOUND CHEAPLY AND STRONGLY.
4*-SEND FOR CIRCULARS OF TYPOGRAPH AND BERRYG RAPH COPYING PROCESSES
MUSIC —Newest Pieoea, Songs, Danceß, and Part Mnslc. New Catalogue, Free on Application.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE STREET.
A liliA\ A. MAKSHALI & UO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS Of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pt« and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Jto.
* nfl Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmltihlns, Blaoksmlthing, Plumbing,
QMfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-itMng. of every description,
BOULTON'S "FLUSH," “VALVE," and "PAN" CLOSETS, "VACUUM" WATER
WASTB, PREVENTERS, ICO,
Male Agea.se far Verity Bras.,
Patent aij PreyeQm, Bxkaaat Faa Cawla* aao Ftwee, flniana
Weraefi, dta*
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUAREE-PUCE,
SYDNEY
ruu PianoDiwei Amt Paioa a» Amioince.
ALFRED LAWRENCE and CU>
130 OOLLINS-STREET, WEST. 91 PITT-BTREET,
Melbourne. Sydney. .
BREWERS and grated Water Makers Machinery and Appliances. Books on Brewing and
making. Dr. Grief endorff s Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. Griefendorff a Bohemian Hop ™ggf
Dr. Griefendorff a Dandelion Bitters. Dr. GriefendoriFs Quinine Wine. Utica and Munchen jj
Bitters. Hop Aroma, Corking Machines, Yeast Presses and other sorts. Lignozote for
and casks. Boakes Liquid Albumen Wine Finings. Thermometers, Saocharometers,
Ammonia and Ether Ice Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion Ale, Hop
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, &o. Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application.
Publishing Office of j
“ THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WINE AND BP** 1
TRADE REVIEW.”
Also
“THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE, i
BEACOI^SFIE 1 T) HOTEL
(CLOSE TO BEACH),
ST. KILDA, Melbourne.
HI
rami
sense
IliHUllllUHiiiiiiLlj* illiHl
iljf- j|
i'-'JFIJ IHak-ffgwwSr«*Mia' I j§Vil§
E. A. COOPEK,
s Proprietress.
P. GIBBS, Manager.
& PERRINS SAUCE
SAUC
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which art calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Phmm
have to request that Purchasers see that ike Jb&fo'K eft ooerp bottfa
bears their Signature tkus-^-
without which m ■ bottle of the original WGMGE& TEM.SHIMM
SA UCE is genuine ,
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name en Wrapper, f S
Stopper. 9 Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ; Lresse msm
Blackwell, London , <s re,, (Pc : and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the Wersd^
Wholesale Agents j Montefiore Joseph & C 0. ,: David Cohen & Co:, Sydney.
Wop
OJ»
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAy m OBTAMED rn iABELLEB TO m PACKETS THROUGHOUT
FJIO JOBBING PRINTERS, 160.
To be sold, a large quantity of Old Type and
Cases, usefnl for country newspaper. Apply,
“Bulletin” Newspaper Co., Pitt-street.
NOTICE.
rjio BE LET.
STORES adjoining
Office, Pitt-street. Apply, this O& 00 '
-\XTATCHES, .
* * all these <
TV
VISITORS TO SYDNEY ARE INVITED TO INSPECT THE MAGNIFICENT STOCK OF
Jewellery, Opera-glasses, Optical, Mathematical, Scientific, and Surveying Goods, also bhe onrivalled Workshops, In full swing, whete the manufacture tod * 0
jloods is carried on under the constant and personal supervision of the Proprietor- Come one, come all, to 334 George-street.
WIESEITEE, 334= O-EOESO-E STREET
WTESENER, WIESENER, WLESENER, WATCHMAKER. JEWELLER, and OPTIOAN.
