

FAIBS
' READY
immediate
SKATES
FOR
DELIVERY.
Roller skates
Roller skates
Roller skates
Roller skates
skates
liQ ELE R SKATES
SKATES
A word to persons intending opening skating.
rinks.—Four things are conducive to the success
of a rink, namely ; —A good floor, good mus e,
good order, and, above all, GOOD SK.vThS
'J he following is a list cf the leading American
skates, all of which we have in stock, and can
deliver at once :
%
inttnding opening
IVS.
as Well as wholesale and
Mail
, lr ° rx hiongers, and dealers,
to to their advantage
ee these lots at
once.
K
>la neh othce will be opened
t)e y shortly, due notice
Pap given in this
Note to Rink Managers.—
Ron t risk the success of your
rinks by the use of inferior
skates. ,■
Bear in mind that we have
in stock all the successful makes
that have been used in America
and elsewhere, and act accor-
dingly.
ll
OFFICE AND WAREHOUSE :
fc->
STREET NORTH, HOTHAM, MELBOURNE..
A. N. I^IDGrJELY.
The Bulletin


THE LEADING AND CHEAPEST HOUSE FOR
PIANOS? ORGANS? MUSIC?
and Musical Instruments of every description, is
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, 3 DOOR FR")M G.P.O.
ATX the best makers kept In stock, and every instrument guaranteed. The iron-framed
VICTOR Piano excels all others, and is fully equal in every respect ro Pianos sold at £52 and £os.
Call and inspect or seDd for Photo, and particulars. UEBEL AND LKCHLKIIER Pianos, and
EBTKY and Co.'s American Organs are both marvels of cheapness.
EASIEST TINT PAYMENTS, ROM 20s A MONTH.
<r6Z&r:
Pfu .j
/ £oiPf#Srx*r t
y **•
Trlacu
furmfßS.
icomimsaiOßS]
lIHRFRIAHNA 1
TSTOi
K*B Office t Factory, ncwtow*
Branch. Ccqhcc S?. Sy&hcy
mgR AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
JL LIMITED.
png AD OFFICE CORNER of MARKET and
YORK BTREETB SYDNEY.
Incorporated by Act op Executive Council.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A.
J. V. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Ebq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq
but 'Hvidend paid to Shareholders at the rate of 13} per-
oent per annum
lomu paid to Deposito ■ of 12 months (2 per cent.)
„ „ 6 „ (1 per cent)
JPhe Bank transacts all usual Banking Business, Current
accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and makes Advances
Upon all kinds of Commercial Securities. Agencies in Lon-
don and throughout the world. Overdrafts granted against
deposits of Deeds. Deposits received. Interest allowed
at call, 3 per cent ; 3 months, 4 per cent.; 6 months, 5 per
cent. ;12 months, 6 per cent. By order of the Board of
Directors. H. M'NAMAKA, Secrerary.
THOS. BUOKLAND,
oarnra. machinery, and general * a**
Charters Towers
tint (or Bober and Oo„ Engineer*, Lincoln
„ „ Langland'i Foundry Co., Melbonrno Tk
E. D. MILES,
ICWINfi AND COMMISSION A6KSI
Mining Exchange
OHaRTERB TONERS QUEEN BLAKE
LLA
«COVERED
STUDY KODKOMir
»nd
Bmb jour XT m brail* Tiian re-
eorerel and »oat
rwMoli re-line 1 and eesde equ»
10 Ke>, it
J. SULLIVAN 9
511 Qeorge Street
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool end Bstharet Streets
’ Bentoli eeede to rnstcSt »e»
insect Sec-sire castle •see**"'-'
ALAN B BRIGHT
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS
TWPBitIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SABAH EATON,
bo Of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
m First-class Family and Commercial Hotel
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
ALFRED LISTER, Proprietor.
This Is one of the Largest Hotels in the oolonieß.
Replete with every comfort and convenience of
modern times for the travelling publio.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
Pjmt-olasb Accommodation fob Visitors.
WIMKS AND SPIRITS OF THK CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J, F, R. STEWART, Propriety,
QXJEIB3SrS3L,.A.3SrP-
Millar, carter, and co.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agentß,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency.—John Bros., 17 Custom Bouse
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency. —T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Robert butcher & co
Have Removed bhelr Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business bo
592 a GEORGESTREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets, i
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, In and out Ol
- - at LOWEST RATES.
Belle Vue Hotel,
gpyfiUltt PMiluneut Boases., Botmclwu
uxd QrxeetuUad Club,.
VIRST.OLABB FAMILY HGTBi,
ACCOMMODATION lOM 11. J
A Waltwt Meet* *▼«*.•» Bt»*mu.,
letter* «ud oeleurtona please address pro*
prl,V ° I * 8, M, COLLINS,
Palace Family H.>tel,
Corner or Stanley and Melbourne Streets*
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-cl ass Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house In the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
we, situated oorner of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
1 SOVEREIGN REMEDY
T§ a ' Afflicted wit* Rheumatic Gout Tio-
Dolobeux, Aohino Paiws in the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM £ RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Rel let and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No ohange in diet
necessary In Bottles, Is., 3s. 6d., 65., and 10s.
CURB ?C BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEB BRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion iB the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only oures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to.be the safest and best manufactured,
Prep»rea b» the Sole Proprleww.
i i, ROSE Pharmaceutical Qkmlst,
68 only.
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker
396 Pitt-street.
y
r-..v'
SpirL
>.
MC*d*x.t«>
*&6 A.r £f
Marquees on Hire.
THE ORIGINAL
> WAUGH'S f<
FIRST CLASS AWARD
o*
RICHEST OEGREE OF MErtlt
ISTHEBEST INTHLWORLD
None other but
imm
|jCCUytdT*»t.#Htf|» NAl lON IAI
'* MtltC HCD«L
*e?
Manufactured eYjA»*e*Oi*«*>*
Hakiouk S’ StohaT
Sold bjr Ail Cf©c«r* and stvnk*iy«n
TOBACCO
i fir ls *
m
DIXON & SONS
TOBACOC WORKS.
SYDNEY.
ryxsoN sc sons’ conqubrob faCTO^
not only manufactures MOB® TOBA
THAN ANY OTHER, bnt CONSUMBB TH*
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF
r nto New South Wales, and hence the gr« at ****
of their brands
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tobacco •*
Australia.
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, CHAMFIO
gold leaf ,
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTUR
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No 1 machine m® 4 *
10,000 per hour, the choicest Virginia®
and Paris rice tissue, size sold W *
retailerB at 3d. per packet of 10 cigarette*"
3*/£CQ>TIS:’S
KEW JBEAI AND
TESTIMOMIAXS
From the Bouden Contingent Hoipite
Oorpt; elto from eminent Dootort end
Stni’nnt* from 8»<1no»
&
MONK'S
rill HUIVKI.
It. Ed. per Bottle.
Ajt (or It end take no inbttliute.
la an inraluable ears, See teitknoaUU.
MOISTENS
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhcee Mixture,
A positive rare. Sold by all Chemist*.
3s. 6d. per bottle.
MONK’B
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
3s. Bd. per bottle.
Sole Agents i
MATHEY, NATHAN & 00.,
SOI PITT STREHST, SYDNEY,
AMD
44 Little ollins tkket East, Melbourne,
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYHPIK, gUKKKSLAND.
The Central Hotel, Private Bitt Boom.
BendeEVOQB for aU parties engaged In mining
business.
H. 6. BAILEES, Proprietor,
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
IjIIRST-CLASS Accommodation tor Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Camilles. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath, Billiards (Aloook's). First-class ehtf.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junk., Proprietor
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS,
Head Office: Townsville, H, Queensland,
G S CURTIS,
Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICK,
MR, BOLTON (of the firm of Lowbi and
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried at under his personal supervision
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, oentrally situated
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit
Ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival,
BiL'jjlAßD TABLE and piano on the
PREMISES, ulbc 3T ABLINS for the aooommoda-
Cion of Thirty Horses, and • good PADDOCK
within live minutes iraU of jhe Hotel Goaohbh
DAILI JTMOM jkBD st £ookbakpton.
Non n» Addbbsb >
KIOBAIL BOLTON
(Of she Firm of Lowry ft Bolben),
SUNBURST MOTEL,
mscmt M- mASf.
SKA*
mmmM
grass
; Otf
TT'TT , ■ ■' ~.
iK i
pn , ' r ”
3®fiWSaa?r ' jfS
rjIKK ffSMBXWre* EYFHfYJKITKR
Bmm Itboni, italic &uy *n9 Man, writing nuih ImKi
tß»n upart iaan 4in, ana waiter to Ini than
’■aa-Sielf She iprae aaeaplei bp pan writing Beantifnl
•'ln be Set it «e „ht ainal wanrsr In the latter-Draw
'"'4 itDinsli .mi at*ir kn ah* »ol« t«snb|
IMRAY ft 00.
AIB Kent-atrael.
c
m
f?
if
$
[fy
RatßapE
SYDJffeY
* -y
n—a&mt
MOULTON’S PAIN
CURES AkL PAJN.
The known remedy for RHKTJMA
NEURALGIA.. HEADACHE, TO c ,
SPRAINS BRUISES, B T RNS,
and taken internally cures DlAR**r
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, CO IC, and
internal aches and pains.
price, 2/ * sold iSveiryv/
E. 1. MOULTON, SOLI PMPRIETffi*. y;
jjelbopenb and eY£>J*
'o*
Mount Morgan hotel, quebnSl
, fHS P
Under the distinguished patronage of p
oellenoy Bir A. Musgrave, K.C.M.G. prf
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey building®■ «o>
the balconies a splendid view can be obt®* # s4
the celebrated mountain of gold, and
minutes’ walk of the company’s works.
and mail coaches daily from RockhamlPE?; ptf'
Klbra railway-stations. W.
pritor, of the firm of Monokton and Co.
MOXJ3STT IsSLOTEIGrJ^
QUESISLAND TItIOIAL
20 BEDROOMS. ,
. ..
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done
is now ready for the reception °*.
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best «' 8»
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HEISER, P r °P 1 /
■—i
*
if 8 s
(late of the Doteotive'Foro*'
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and
Business Agency Office,
<1 ROY AX ARCADE, BYDN* ? >j
Abuonden and wife deiertere traced, and
nSdential Inquiries instituted Bvldsnee ovVLpl Lai
Ivoree. libel, brand, and Incendiary oases, for Wj® * o f V'd
?3iion and others Copies of willi, oertlfioa»»* he #p»j
’-anrlase, or death, obtained in any part
‘ into and debts oolleoted. From B. M. B.’s Ion? Slti. W
the Oetective Force of New South Walea. Yiojjjj jL,
rtw Zealand, and eitabliehed agenoles In all 5% &
t 4ft®, he la in aposltion to oonduot all inquiries jir
XiSMdtILE and itrioteit aeoreay. and to y
fftlWiy attend to all butlnota onirastel 5 t ** /
V
BARQUE
SMtiiNES*
seiLißi
WSMP&,
4
E
CRA# 1
A*® ■
ENCr
MO
,w#
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, LAUNCH
jgg ( T2MiiTß2 foa OOXTU‘I®'
ROBERT COOPER WEBS]^
AMENTA
aw*, 9m iiiiwii


The BUlletin
rvol 9 -Wo. 420,
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18. 1888
Price. (ML
A^ ?s **
ff
9je c'Mtf*
*'<* jKf/U'K'HC
/* s +*
V^ N
«4M
' > y <
l r •
• * / /
s wti#
The Mother of Civilisation.


"THE BULLETIN,"
The National Australian Newspaper.
PROPRIETORS i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STBEET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALE
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum •H »M »M £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly , M , M , H 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly ... , H ... 0 6s. 6d.
Cheque s Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Maoleod, Memaging Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. If. Archibald
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shilling
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18. 1888
The Impartially of Police Prosecutions.
Statements have been made by the Sydney Press
in connection with the Mount Rennie case which,
if true (and they are far more than colorably true),
peculiarly emphasise the almost autocratic and
tyrannical control assumed by publicly-appointed
trustees and guardians of publicly-subscribed
moneys for specific purposes, and admirably illus-
trate a mal administration of charitable funds
which, in New South Wales at least, bids fair to
become chronic. The mother colony of the Aus-
tralian group must to the other States and to the
outside world furnish forth instances enough and
to spare to point a moral and adorn a tale when-
ever a case of breach of trust or a dereliction of
pubUc duty shall afford an opportunity for such
an application. The Soudan Contingent and
Bulli Relief Funds are only two of many flagrant
examples of the ease, and security to the offenders,
with which the intention of the public may be set
aside and entirely put in f o the background by the
very committees appointed by the subscribers to
give effect to their wishes. Ihe latest example, par-
ticulars of which were given in last Friday’s issue
of a Sydney evening paper, the Australian
Star, is in connection with an affair which The
Bulletin alone has always consistently and
Vehemently ridiculed —namely, the raising of a
fund in recognition of the “ valour ” of a person
named Stanley, who was alleged to have ren-
dered some service of peculiar value to the girl
Mary Jane Hicks. Nevertheless, if the Star’s
statements are true, this instance more than ever
accentuates the indifference of committees to the
will and intention of the subscribers whose funds
they disburse.
* * *
In the first place, who was Stanley ? Mr.
Stanley, the most important witness at the
Mount Rennie trial—chiefly on the strength of
whose evidence nine youths were sentenced to death
and four of them hanged—was a mysterious dead-
beat, an enigmatical Johnny Warder, a common
vagrant, whose o&tli was given in support of the
evidence of a complaisant street-walker and an
ostracised jockey. Ihe dubioui story wa3 subse-
quently flatly contradicted on affidavit by
another witness and accomplice in tall swearing,
namely, one Brown, whose statement, it must be
remembered, is quite as good as Stanley’s, and
his recantation of his previously-rendered evidence
is probably true, as it was not the result of any hope
of gain, through all the devious interwind ngs
of the trial one thing is immediately apparent:
the Mount Rennie prosecution was a police-made
case, in which the intelligent and vigilant officer of
the law seemed to put himself in competition with
the reporter of revolting details, and vied in
Zolaesque sensationalism with certain bloodthirsty
newspapers. In order to gra’ify the self-
excusatory theories of a selfish and indifferent
middle_-elas3jwhich controls the organs of alleged
public opinion and guards the avenues to official
preferment, the police sought to depict the
Mount Rennie offenders as a set of
uniquely aggressive larrikins, who, like
the hordes of ancient Scythia, or packs of
hungry wolves, threatened to leave their fast-
nesses and assail society in its stronghold,
and to subvert the entire fabric raised
by a century of civilisation; whereas, it
is now perfectly p’ain to every unprejudiced
person that tbs offence for which four bos a were
hanged and five locked up for life, was
simply a filthy and commonplace orgy indulged in
amongst themselves by people of a filthy class.
The Bulletin does not say that any and every
woman, however degraded, is not entitled to
physical protection, but it holds that every
woman who desires the full protection and
avengement awarded by the law to female inno-
cence must comport herself as a pure woman, and
not invite attention by the tricks of the wanton.
If, as in the case of Miss Mary Jane Hicks, when a
strange cabman simply crooks his finger at her, a
woman will le ip into his vehicle, and suffer him
to drive her to some lonely and secluded spot, can
she be regarded as having the same claims to re-
dress as the decent woman who is un-
provokedly assailed by ruffians ? Virtue
is a mental quality in a far greater degree
than it is a physiological attribute. An offence
committed by a lewd man against an immodest
and immodestly-aoting woman is a mere offence
against properly—the sort of property dealt in by
every strumpet who walks the street; an offence
committed by a brutal man against a modest
woman who acts modestly is an offence against a
noble ideal.
• # *
But to return to Stanley ! While tbis enigma-
tical dead-beat was wait'ng to give his evidence
the polica supplied him with board and lodging. He
was police-kept and spoon-fed until he was wanted,
or ratter he won d have been could the police have
managed it, but they reckoned without their
guest. Hardly had the accused been committed
for trial than the hero of fictional invention got
drunk and disappeared, leaving no tra e behind
him, re-appearing as suddenly and as unex-
pectedly, just at the time a hysterical Press was
reeking with horrible suggestions regarding the
“ hero’s ” probable fate Stanley’s tale was to
the effect that wicked people had endeavoured to
do away with him, to suppress him. He had
been hocussed, kidnapped, marooned, stranded,
and left to die of starvation in Newcastle, Ne w
South Wales. The police were glad to have re-
covered him and guarded him more thorough'y,
for without Stanley there could have been no
drop-kick denouement. The “ hero’s” next sen-
sational appearance was at Darlinghurst Court-
house, where he gave the evidence which assisted
in the hanging of four bo a and the sentencing to
life-impriso .merit of five others. 1 his is the climax
of his story ; henceforward his path becomes
rough and thorny.
• * *
After the executions Mr. Stanley b’gan to
reap in his reward. As the alleged rescuer of Miss
Hicks he was forthwith fashioned into a “ hero,”
and, as it is now the custom fcr all “ heroes ” to
receive testimonials, the hat was passed round on
his behalf. Unli re the heroes of ancient days our
modern type is not satisfied with the crown of
parsley, he asks for the butter as well. Minnie
i Palmer, always on the qui vine for an advertise-
ment, sent him a £25-diamoid ringj; credulous old
maids tremblingly subscribed their little half-
sovereigns, a d the Mayor of Sydney publicly
described the recipient of all this bounty as a hero
“worthy of the Victoria Cross” But just as
the choir was preparing t> sing the triumphal
cantata, and the money wa* ready for presenta-
tion, Mr. Stanley again disappeared, this time
as wonderfully and mysteriously as though he
had never lived. There was a good and valid
reason for his departure. He had hitherto been
maintained by the police and the newspaper-re-
porters—a curious conjunction —the latter minis-
tering to his bibulous necessities by the donation
of shillirgs ani sixpences. But Stanley, tired of
this very slow mode of procedure, had now
uttered a forged cheque upon the firm cf his
benefactor and enthusiastic admirer, Mayor
Riley.
* * *
The police were called upon to proceed against
their quondam hero. An information was
sworn against Stanley by the publican who had
cashed the cheque, which bore Stanley's endorse-
ment, a signature bearing ajremarkable likeness to
the hand- writing in the body of the document.
By and bye Mr. Stanley re-appeared once more in
Sydney, and this time he told his old friends, the
evening-newspaper reporters, that he had been in
New Zealand, which was a lie, and had returned to
prosecute his maligners —which was mere ‘ ‘ bluff. ”
Then a reporter who had been lending him money
handed him over to the police. When these
faithful guardians of public morality had the un-
pleasant task imposed upon them of “running
in ” a man who had made such a “ good case,”
they proved themselves equal to the emergency.
Mr. Stanley, having been arrested, had next to
be brought before the court, by which he was re-
manded for a week. At the termination of this
period no prosecutor appeared, and he was dis-
charged. Not a word of comment appeared
concerning the fact in that same Sydney daily
press which had “ boomed ” thi3 iniquity at the
commencement, tad touted to the hangman, and
had sacrificed to the gallows.
. •
By law it is quite permissible for any man,
before swearing an information, to compound any
offence against property, but not after he has
done so. Ten thousand times more is such a
course to be opposed in a case wherein enormous
issues are at stake, involving the whole question
of the credibility of a Crown witness—for i: may
be here le marked that the forger is only the
perjurer in another form. Stanley’s credi-
bility as a witness —provided he was guilty
of what he was charged wi.h and there is every
reason to suppose he was —is just as low as that of
the two other chief witnesses for the Crown, one of
whom, since the Mount Bennie trial, it is publicly
stated, whilst acting as a sly-grog informer
boasted of what he had done in the way of tall
swearing. Again, it has since transpired—and
there are official papers to this effect which have
been carefully suppressed by the authorities—that
Miss Mary Jane Hicks, while in the custody of
a married policeman, gave such proof of her real
character that she had, in consequence, to be re-
moved from his house. But how came “Mr.”
Stanley to be discharged ? Why was he afforded
no opportunity of clearing his character ? Why
was the prosecutor not compelled to attend?
Under the present New South Wales licensing
Act, a publican who, without notice, leaves his
premises for 21 days loses his license, so it would
bi idle for the police to say they could not have
found this man on whom a forgery had been
passed.
* #
The Bulletin has frequently enquired with-
out effect what became of the money subscribed
to the Stanley Ttstimonial Fund. The query
has now received a sDsrt iog answer, for on Friday
evening last it was stated in a Sydney daily paper
that the money was paid over to the prosecutor in
order to “ square ” the charge of uttering preferred
against the “hero” Stanley —in other words,
that a public fund was diverged from its original
intention to compound a felony. Which is to say,
that the committee, being bailees of money pub-
licly subscribed to reward valour and heroism,
and other suppositious virtue’, misspent it, and
used it to save an alleged criminal from the dock.
The gift tendered to a deity was debased to sub-
serve the interests of an impenitent thief, to cover
up an offence, and to burke justice ! Such is the
allegation,
* *
But this failure of justioe, whether or not resul-
tant on the alleged improper use of the money of
the fund, is only a solitary instance of
many auch failures. Even the crime which in
the case of some of the Mount Rennie offenders
was punished by death may be openly committed
in New South Wales in an aggravated form bj
the powerfully-connected without excithig the
comment of either a venal Press or a dull-minded
public. There are still hundreds of Australians
who remember a case of comparatively recent
occurrence in which a married man, a near rela-
tive of a New fcouth Wales Judge, was charged
on oath by a single woman with having, assisted
by another man, outraged her under circumstances
of peculiar deliberation and atrocity. Tho
v Oman’s statement was clear and di-tinst, and
the medical evidence conclusive, but the prose-
cutrix, after the case had been brought before the
Court and remanded, was allowed to withdraw
the charge, as she had in the meantime “ had a
conversation with the prisoner’s wife !” Yet, by
a curious coincidence during the very same wee f ,
at Redfern Police Court, a poor woman who hac
been beaten by her husband and wished to with
draw the charge, was not allowed to do so, bu
was deprived of the services and thrashings of he
bread-winner for a term of six months. Verily
do circumsta'icrs alter oases in ew South Wales
* A
There is a tremendous meaning in the allega
tion that the Stanley Testimonial Committee
which numbered among its members Sir Alfrbi
St-phew, Lieutenant-Governor and ex-Chief Jus
tico of New South Wales, the natural adviser o
the Governor of tin colony on all legal and con
stltutional points affecting the lives and liberties
of citizens undor sentence of death (and who was
probably so consulted on this very Mount
Rennie case) came forward with pub
licly-subscribed money given for a defl
nite purpose, and used it to enable a
notorious law-breaker to e cape the meed of his
offences. This is so stupendous and appalling an
accusation that we must emphatically decline to
believe that Sir Alfred Stephen could ever
have had the barest hint of such proceedings,
which, if they took place at all, must have been
the work of a set of those boobies who are to be
found on every public commi tee. Nor can we for
an instant at ach the slightest ere dit to the amazing
statement that Sir Alfred Stephen and others
“ who still believed in Stanley” (notwithstand-
ing that a felony had, wi'h or without their know-
ledge, been compounded on his behalf !) got up a
subscription among themselves to pay his passage
to England! The thing is grotesquely Impossible.
* #
Neverthe’ess, an instant, a full and complete
statement of the manner in which the fund col-
lected on behalf of Stanley was expended Is now
most imperatively demanded. While from one
point of view The Bulletin regrets having a«ain
to advert to any phase of the most shameful and
unparalleled miscarriage of justice involved in the
Mount Rennie case, it is in duty hound to point
out that the whole matter must sooner or later
engage the attention of the New South
Wales Parliament with a view to the
rigid future maintenance of those forms of
law which constitute the safeguards placed by
centuries of growing civilisation around the lives
and liberties of British citizens. The community
ruled by the descendants and traditions of the
New South Wales Corps must be taught that a
rape committed on the sightless Goddess of Jus-
tice is an even more heinous crime than the for-
cible further defilement of a common raccroeheuee.
The Queensland Liberal Party.
That the Liberal party is thoroughly discredited
in Queensland is manifest. The whole country is
discontented with the administration of affairs,
and this discontent reaches the point of virulence
in the North, which feels it is being resolutely
tied up in the interests of the quid nunes of
Queen-s'.reet and the greedy IPouth Between the
North and the South o;mes what may be called
the debateable land—that strip of country which,
in the event of separation, would make up the
border districts of the two colonies. This is more
generally settled with whites than the North, and
its influence in the voting scale is, if not quite
that of the preponderating balance this way or
that way, still very considerable. The belief of
this part of the country is that plantation work is
possible for the whites, but that the rate of wages
they demand from the employers promises no
rapid and colossal fortunes, and that, therefore,
the employers are sedulously propagating the
dogma that the semi-tropics and tropics cannot
be developed without ter vile labour. It was the
firm adhesion of this semi tropical Democracy
which, combined with that of the miners, in the
cry of “ Queensland for the Queenslanders,” cul-
minated in the tremendous Liberal victory which
gave Griffith his late dictatorship.
* * *
The general discontent has gained these men
also, as it has gained the other Democracy, the
Democracy of the South and of the Darling
Downs. This disoontent has, as yet, had no
mouthpiece. It is general in both its feeling and
its expression, but really, at bottom, it has a
strong element of personal distrust of Griffith.
Why is it, the selecting class is asking itself, that
we obtained better and more practicable terms
from the Land Act of a Conservative than from a
Land Act purporting to be drawn up wholly in
onr interests ? Groom, like the utterly selfish
time-server he is— Groom, the ex-publican, ex-
stock and station agent, present nigger- minstrel
caterer, and ex-several other things of a more
dubious charaoter, has got out of Griffith what
he wanted—that genera l social. eoognitionof a man
which is supposed to be a seqaent prerogative of
the Speakership. Now, therefore, Groom is
getting ready to fan the Darling Dawns discon-
tent, if Le sees there is real material for the
flame, and will then once more formulate the price
of his adhesion to the victor of the elections. He
has plajed the game before and won on it, and
he will play it again, he thinks. The squatters,
who hate and scorn him, shall presently see him
cheek by jowl with their representatives in the
Council. There is one thing, however, this astute
individual doe 3 not calculate on. It is possible
for the Darling Downs Liberals to have a strong
element of parsenal distrust of other people
besides Griffith They may have a strong ele-
ment of personal distrust of Groom.
• * #
There remains one section of the voters still to
be taken into account, and it is a most important
one. ihe urban electorates. These can be divided
into two Casse3—the business men (who include
the shopkeepers), and the mechanics (who include
the workmen). The former class is dependent
to the greatest extent on the land, and of all the
Griffithia » failures the land has been the worst.
Randolph Churchill, the other day, was point-
ing out to a Pall Mall Gazette reporter that
the “ education ” Disraeli had given to his party
consisted more in making the town electorates
Tory instead of the shira and country electorates
than in his loud-trumpeted policy of “Im-
perialism.” The truth is, the busines3 men every-
where are becoming Toryish without the help of
any “ education ” but their own. And the Queens-
land city business men are profoundly dis-
satisfied with Griffith; and Dickson’s treasurer-
ship has only not ruined his reputation as a
financier through his clever manoeuvre of making
Dutton and his Land Act the sc ipegoat, and re-
signing—or ratting—on the force of it.
*
The Queensland city business men, with their
eyes on the swiftly approaching “ boom, ’ feel
that the State finances ought to be administered
by a man with somewhat larger notions than
those of a parsonical lawyer, backed by Y.M.C. A
log rol ers. They are trel of hear.ng Ait stides
for ever called the Just and Griffith the Pure,
The truth Is that they begin to see that
purity, political and otherwise, is a thing to cut
tivate for all it is worth. For, look you, to the
pure all things are pure, and also to hang a dog it
is chiefly necessary to give him a bad nam
Hence it happened that, when M'llwraitii (wh
is a man of wrath and begotten in sin and lih
wise born in it) appointed a friend to a post an;
where, a howl would be raised of bribery ar
corruption. But Bam can foist hundreds of h
petty elec’ioneering supporters into the Civil Se
vice, and exempt a whole district from an Ac
and it is all right, you know, because he
Psalmyell the eleot, the son of Jbhovah, and h
“ motives are ” (as Caesar’s wife was not
“ above suspicion.” That is getting rather thlr
now, especially to those on the spot, and th
Queensland business men are coming to see tha
Psalmyell’s “purity” has meant very muc
cry and very little wool, in every sense of th
phrase, and would like a taste of the M‘ll
wraithian “corruption” now, if only for
change.
* * *
We have yet to speak of the mechanics and
workmen. Thess were the backbone of the las
elections, the Queenslanders who were for Queens
land and Bam Griffith and ‘ • pure administra
tlon.” VY hat has resulted to them! In what wa,
has the late Government banefl ted them ? Every
where the few struggling manufactories have had
to clrse, a d throw men out cf employment. 1
mean, begrudged “ bonus ” and a patch of lam
granted to the cotton industry for its first pro
ducts was just won, and then the industry had to
collapse, while a little larger bonus, continued for
a few more j ears, not to say backed up by a smal
import duty to equalise the rate of European wit]
Australian wages, Mould have made the industry
permanent. This was in the depression. In the
approaching “boom” the cat ton industry woulc
have expanded to an incalculable extent, whereas
now the “ boom” comes and goes, and leaves the
country as it was. As it was ? Not quite that
perhaps; for now—now that, he has played then
false in this way, till his need for their support is
again pressing— Griffith talks of “ protect
ing native industries ” and reforming the
tariff. When he had overwhelming ma-
jorities, and could have done something
for these men who had given him tha place and
power of a dictator, he would do nothing. He
preferred to trick and palter with the squatters
and rich people, their natural foes. He preferred
to shine in the petty social cirole- He pre-
ferred to go home and pose in London Tory
“society” as the Queensland dictator, and
air his new-born title, and return with the
prestige of the British Tory tyranny behind him.
There he could “pledge the honour of the coun-
try ” to a coereionist Premier for a scheme of
Naval Defence which here he had denounced.
He could do this, and then, when he saw that the
Democracy would be fooled no longer by his
bourgeois, lawyer protestations when he
needed it to once more put him into
place and power—then, and not till then,
he could talk of helping it, of “ protecting native
industries,” and not leaving these Queenslanders
(for whom was Queensland) to starve. Is not this
also a trifle thin, my dear friends ?
* * *
Every branch of the great and united Liberal
party which rose, Colossus like, from the late
elections, this man has coquetted with and pal-
tered with. There is no sincerity in him. All he
cares for is himself. If the Democracy uses him,
it must use him as a tool, and a very slippery
tool. 8o far it has been the other way. He has
used the Democracy as the monkey used the cat,
and now anyone cm see his pouch full of the
chestnuts which he munches. He wants more.
His chance lies in just this -that, much as the
party distrusts him, it may perhaps distrust his
rival more. Let him not count on that too muc*.
The MTlwraitiiian programme is still unuttered.
Let it be a frank declaration of great issues—
Australian Nationalism, and Protection, and good
administration —and Griffith may find himself
once more gnashing his teeth in the outer political
darkness.
After the Celebration.
We have seen tumultuous revel, we have SBen
ecstatic display. We have heard wonderful
speechmaking, and suffered exquisite headaches
from innumerable banquets, feaatings, and cor-
roborees. And what does it amount to ? Nothing.
The day just celebrated has been the anniver-
sary—for the hundredth time repeated—of the
settlement of these lands by England. What is
there therein that we should rejoice ?
* • *
Our Fatherland ! Perhaps somewhat less than
a third of our fathers found their origin there—
another part in the land of the gallant feots—yet
another in that section which England cruelly and
barbarously oppresses—the enslaved and down-
trodden Ireland. The statistics may show some-
what differently, but of those who left for Aus-
tralia from an English birthplace, how many, in-
deed, owed their blood to the steadfast men from
the freer and braver clime of the North or to the
dashk grace from the isle of the West? Is it
not from these that England’s own failing blood
has been recruited for the past five generations ?
And why did these emigrants, who freely and
voluntarily took up their lot in a land which Eng-
land had stigmatised with the badge of crime
(albeit England's self could not escape the just
sentence for the greater crime of judicially en-
slaving, nay, even murdering and degrading in
still worss degree some of these alleged criminals,
were a Da7 of Judgment to be at this moment
pronounced upon the nations)—why did they take
up their lot in the outcast land ? Was it not be-
cause they sought to escape from the domineering
tyranny of England—of the whole English system
—for seeking to amend which, on the same basis
as we in Australia enjoy to day, Chartists and
other carnest-souled reformers had been crimi-
nalized ? The flag of the nation which
enslaved these our pioneers came flaunting its
vile ignominy to anticipate their path, and shut
them out from the freedom of a new world just)
as it is now menacing and undermining their
liberties; and for this we are oalled upon
to rejoice Rather should we mourn that
the new and better world was not left to
itself; that its founders oould not at once
proclaim the Australian freedom—the nation’s
life that shall scones’ or later vitalize the world—
at onoe upon their landing ; that those con-
demned to. the chains and the lash for a disregard
of the iniquitous claims of landlordism and
monopoly could not Mien hajre leaped to liberty,
and proclaimed the overthrew here at least of the
monster whin degraled them. And that it was


not ao do we not to-day reap the most bitter
flrstfruits ? And what shall it be when the deadly
harvest is ripe f
• • *
After so many yoars of comparative freedom
what do we find? A servile imitation of Eng-
land in our Courts of Law —a toadying worship of
England’s thieves fostered by the English mer-
chants among us who would be squires them-
selves —an Imperial conspiracy which, as we long
ago pointed out, has for its object the utter
shelving of all questions of Australian interest—
the subjection of these lands to English naval and
military forces—and the cutting off of local pos-
sibilities of advancement, that, by personal ambi-
tion, the warlike of our population may be bribed
to seek their interests in an adherence to the
dominance —the soldier-sway—of England!
• • •
Bight glad is T*e Bulletin to see that its
hints have been taken up in earnest. When in
these columns was published a poem on the signi-
ficance of England’s refusal to participate in the
French Exhibition, we then, under the pressure
of feeling against France owing to her convict
settlements in the Pacific, stood alone. We had
pointed out how France was j ustifled in her action
so long as these colonies failed to make their
principles known— so long as they were content
to stand in the eyes of the world as a mere append-
age of England, used as a convenience for fur-
nishing her aristocracy with snug Governorships,
and for sending squeamishly loyal addresses to
the stingy woman who rolls in wealth while the
millions starve. To-day the same note has been
struck far and wide. The leading Conservative
journals are wasting tons of ink in vain endea-
vours to controvert the daily-repeated truth. We
are sincerely thankful that our warning has not
been in vain, and that it has found a responsive
echo far and wide. But it is more than argu-
ment we seek for. It is well to know that the
Imperial octopus has its myriad tentacles out-
spread threatening directly or indirectly all that
is worth having of distinctively Australian life.
But more yet is necessary.
» * •
To the notice of the Australian Natives’ Asso-
ciation, to whose Dunolly Branch in Victoria the
idea of the present holiday on each successive
anniversary is due, we commend these words, as
well as to Australians throughout the length and
breadth of the land. Let a day be set apart to
commemorate the anniversary of Australian
self-government —the day on which, with Wes-
tern Australia, the whole continent becomes
to some extent free—let that be celebrated as
the birthday of a United Nation, as it must
come to be—and thus fostering the spirit of
liberty and national Independence, we shall be
content to let the wretched advent of crime and
oppression go by the board, unremembered and
uncommemorated. The time is at hand to mark
our desiee of impressing on our annals the reoord
of Australian autonomy, and unless (which our
patriotism forbid !) we are to look upon self-rule
as a mere machine for elevating a few
Duncans and Sir ’Enerys to the rink of demi-
gods, and as nought else besides, we should
hasten to express our delight at the completion of
one step in the direction of full Australian free-
dom, independence, manhood, responsible power,
and foremost Right. If we are afraid, or ashamed,
to mark this important epoch in our history, we
may as well cease the boast of onr leading posi-
tion in the army of Progress, and go and sqcat
ignominiously in the enemy’s rear. Let us awake
to a sense of onr position, for the days are surely
not far ahead when, in the deadly convulsions
that shall shake the world, our principles and our
courage will be put to the test.
“Death, and Co."—A Profitable
Partnership.
There is something new under the sun, spite of
all that Solomon said about it. Until lately no
company of a commercial character started busi-
ness with Death as their sole resouroe and work-
ing partner. Azrael has, however, been found
so profitable in this character that no loss than
four other companies have been, in Melbourne,
imitatively floated with Death as their sole sup-
port in business. It is something alarming to go
into partnership with Death, but those have done
so who took shares years ago in the Trustees and
Executors’ Company. It might never have bBen
started had not Black Wednesday and its results
given Mr. Templeton, the veteran polioe-magis-
trate, freedom from the Bench. He left dealing
with Justice, which sometimes miscarries in this
world, to deal with the inevitable which never
does. He had seen the uncertainty of things in
so many ways that he took up with what is com-
monly quoted as one of the two “ certainties ” of
this life—-the two being Death and Quarter Day.
* * *
And how the world—the commercial world—
has long overlooked such a profitable partner as
Death proves to ha 1 Day and night he —to give
Azrael a masculine character —works unceas-
ingly —no sleeping partner is he. And what aid
he has from all around ! Intemperance, over-
work, miasma, idleness, doctors’ mistakes, rail-
way accidents, feve s, and diseases of all kinds
All bring grist to the mill, end charge no commis-
sion to the company. All aid Death, the working
partner, who brings all the profits and yet taies
no share of them.
* • *
Life-assurance companies have been found good
■•joint-stock enterprises, but they are nothing in
their profitable nature to our death-assurance one.
'lt receives instead of paying whe i a death occurs.
The Life A ssurance gets but a paltry part during
•life, while the Trustees and Exeoutors Company
take over everything at death —the amount oC
•life assurance included. And then, when death
•has brought in all this property, how certain is
that possession of it which is said to be nine points
out of ten in favour of the holder ! The banks
■can tell how much remains in their chests of what
comes to them. The Court of Chancery can show,
•also, long lists of unclaimed property, and so the
Trustees and Executors’ Company will have care-
fully to see that only right claimants, when they
come, take what is due to them, and that on pro-
duction only of all proper proof. Why was Death
never thought of before as a partner except by
the undertaker? Why have we gone boggling
■along appointing friends as our Trustees and
Executors who might die before us or not keep
their promises—when we no longer remained
to see them go back on their word ? They
'dj that in six cases out of every 12, and so let
their duties devolve upon incapable people. When
these friends of the deceased did act it has been
mostly through their lawyers, the result being
'heavy bills of costs to be paid by the estate.
• « *
Those Executors and Trustees Companies are
&0«d things—as proved bythe numbers who avail
themselves of such service. The Company never
dies or emigrates or goes bankrupt—so necos-
*Bitating changes and letting loss fall upon
the widow and orphans. Slow Sydney has
not yet got an Act of Parliament passed
empowering its one company to act, while
Victoria has five legally empowered ones in full
blast in Melbourne, one also at Ballarat and one
at Sandhurst. In the first "Melbourne one (rhe
Trustees, Executors, and Agency Co ) the shares
stand at £7 10s. on £1 paid up and the dividend is
25 per cent! But that is nothing to one of such
companies established at Cape of Good Hope, in
which the £lO shares now sell at £750 each 1 !
• * *
“ King Death is a rare old fellow,” indeed, when
taken as a partner in a Limited Liability Co.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Let I's Stamp Chinese Goods.
An Act which savours somewhat of Protection
came into force in England last month. This
Act provides that no foreign-made stuffs shall
pass the Customs unless they bear labels boldly
marked “German,” “French,” or “Italian”
manufacture, as the case may be. Moreover, the
Customs officers are empowered to enter any
warehouse for the purpose of satisfying themselves
that all Continental fabrics bear a distinguishing
mark. At latest dates, London warehousemen
and agents were considerably agitated on this
subject, and German exporters (at whom the Act
is chiefly directed) were endeavouring to arrange
a test case in the Law Courts. French manu-
facturers, on the other hand, hare every-
thing to gain from the operation of the Act,
as German silk is habitually palmed off
upon retail purchasers as the original Lyons
article. The names of Bonnet, Jaubskt, and
others are household words with all English
women who can afford the orthodox “ black silk,”
while any other than a French merino couldn’t
find a sale. But there are no recognised popular
mat:63 of German goods in silk or wool, although
they flood the English markets, hence the new
Act, t n the face of it, seems to have been framed
in the interests of English and (in a minor degree)
of French manufacturers. Considering the dis-
tinctly Protective character of this innovation, it
is strange that the cable has been silent about it,
aid even more strange that the Victorians
have not yet “ spotted ” such a favourable
opportunity for exultation. Not so long
ago their local Freetraders were denouncing
the injustice of compelling Chinese-made furni-
ture to be stamped. It was “ un-English,” “ un-
generous,” “ un-Christian-like," and a few other
things. Now we have the Salisbury Govern-
ment going one better than the Victorian by
ordering all goods of alien origin to be labelled
for the information of private purchasers. If the
English public loyally take this broad hint and
demand hsme made materials at the shops (always
excepting certain French specialities) they will
enjoy Protection without a Tariff.
The Sew South Wales Public Works Bill.
The Public Works Bill so laboriously built up by
Sir Henry Parkes and his colleagues is drifting
through the New South Wales Assembly with
comparatively little display of interest on either
side. It shows in every clause the imbecility of
its originators, and it is hardly possible to imagine
that any band of human mediocrities could pos-
sibly have drafted a weaker measure to cope with
a stupendous evil. For many years, the Fublic
Works system of New South Wales has been
honeycombed with corruption and fraud. Rail-
ways, which will never pay within the lifetime of
any living Australian, have been built in places
where there is no prospect of traffic, to bring the
property of influential politicians within reach of
civilisation ; bridges have been constructed where
there is no water, and dams have been excavated
alongside permanent streams, and a chronic sys-
tem of warfare between the Barnacles and the
Stiltstalkings of various highly-paid Depart-
ments has swamped hundreds of thousands of
public money, which it was nobody’s business to
save. In the Assembly, almost every member is
a son of the horse-leech who wants public money
in one form or another —money for his
constituents in order to make his calling .and xe
election sure, money for himself and for his
brothers and sons and uncles, money in the shape
of roads and railway deviations through his own
property, and the property of his father and his
grandfather and all thereat of his ancestors, money
in any shape and to any amount, from a cheap
lease of half a million acres of the public estate
down to a vote for the erection of a hog-tr.ough
painted blue outside his hotel And at last the colony
has been forced to the conclusion that all these
things are vanity, and that the entire Public Works
system must be removed from the region of p di-
tics and based for the future on purely commercial
principles. In Victoria this has been done by
leaving local improvements to be constructed by
local bodies at the expense of the districts which
are benefited by them, and by placing the railways
under the charge of a Board of business men
whose one pre-eminent duty it is to make them
yield a fair rate of dividend. Sir Henry Parkes,
however, proposes to arrive, at the same result by
a different road. Hitherto the construction of
public works in New South Wales has .been bossed
by a.committee of about 120 more or less—chiefly
more —corrupt politicians, each anxious to secure
the largest possible share of the plunder, but
under the new system these 120 men, who
have been tried and found unworthy of
their trest, are to elect eight of their own
number, who are no better than the rest, to sit
on a committee, and this body, supplemented by
five members of the Upper House, who are irre-
moveable and responsible to no one for their actions,
will decide on the construction of works wherever
they promise to yield the largest amount of ad-
vantage to themselves in the first place, and to the
country in the second. According to the theory
of Sir Henry Parkes, although the Assembly is
morasly unfit to be permitted to openly scramble
for concessions at the expense of the nation, it is
eminently fitted to elect a certain number of its
own discredited members to scramble for them in
secret; but the committee having, like the As-
sembly, nothing to lose by passing, for private
ends, jobs that will pay no dividends, the ultimate
result promises to be much the same as before.
Finally, when the committee has done its work,
its recommendations will be reviewed in a grand
struggle of the whole House, and they will also be
subject to the inspection of the Ministers, who, as
heretofore, will anxiously consider how their own
interests are concerned. This, flaal act of super-
vision, however, will be almost superfluous.
Hitherto it has been a cold day when a new rail-
way was constructed which d'd not run
through the property of at least three
members of the Government of the day,
and as the new committee will be elected
by the majority in the Assembly—or in o her
words, by the followers of the Mini try of the daj,
and as the said following will vote for the nomi-
nees of the Government, it will naturally follow
thatthe chosen eight will be men on whose sympa-
thies the Government can rely. Now and then, pos-
sibly, a concession will have to be made to the
five fossils from the Upper Mausoleum, but, as a
rule, they will be readily voted down by the dead
weight of their colleagues, or else induced to com-
promise, and the jobs which have hitherto been
perpetrated in the light of day will now be put
through with celerity and despatch in the twilight
of the committee-room. The new Public Works
Bill is a measure which promises well to aggravate
the dire corruption of the past and to make con-
fusion worse confounded, and in this respect it is
a fair sample of the reforms which mark the track
of Henry Paricbs through the enduring Statute
Book of New South Wales.
John Van Haynes : An Australian Political
Study.
On 31st January, 1886, Mr. John Haynes, who
then possessed something which he imagined to
be a newspaper, wrote the attached diatribe
against a hoary sham called Parses, who now,
as Premier, bosses the political affairs of New
South Wa’es. A few months after writirg it, he
commenced to grovel at the feet of the same
Parkes, and is gravelling there yet. A semi-
illiterate shoemaker, named Abigail, who, though
a New South Wales Minister of the Crown, helps
to run a pawnshop called the “ Australian Bank-
ing Company,” where working men are charged
from 60 to 200 per cent on convertible securities,
is the other individual alluded to. We are care-
ful to mention this because Haynes and A bigail
now run the election business together, in place of
hitting each other on the head with a boo 1 -, which
latter would be the most reasonable thiDg for
them to do, considering how recently they de-
scribed each other as something lower than a
stolen ass, and, consequently, the public might
naturally imagine that it was another Haynes
and quite a different Abigail. The trio now form
the principal part of the New Holland party—so
called because it attempts to run New South
Wales on the resurrected ghost of old Dutch
William— and it is, therefore, interesting to note
the sentiments of these gentlemen towards each
other. Haynes speaks—the old Haynes, not the
new one:
People who have been reading this paper will have noticed
how we've for months steadily held to the assertion that Sir
Henry Parkis was fast declining in intellectual vigour.
We showed repeatedly that since his physical breas-up,
prior to his last trip to England, he has blundered in a way
to cast a gloom over all the political work of his vigorous
days.
And now we have proof again, proof every day, in fact,
that the man is in the evening twilight of his political exist-
ence.
Only recently he presided at a Salvation Army inaugura-
tion ; and a few days ago we beheld him presiding over a
Woman's Holy Temperance Meeting; and Mr. Nobles
goody-goody gathering of sun-dried abstainers.
Now we have him accepted as the Parliamentary represen-
tative of good, but senseless, old ladies who pray for the
shutting of all theatres on Sunday.
And, as if to show that the aforesaid old and pious dames
were not mistaken in their estimate of the man, the pious
old war-horse has intimated his intention of asking Parlia-
ment to embody the women’s petition in a vigorous law.
Does anyeine man in this community want farther i vi-
dence of the galloping con sumption i f tin brain which affects
Sir Henry Parkes?
We laugh at his impotenoy in attempting to close the
theatres on the Sundav evenings; if he fights the battle it
will show what a hopeless minority there is in our Parlia-
ment with a religiose gizzard.
Sir Henry Parkes, months ago, was run into the politi-
cal gutter for his narrow-minded treatment of Proctor, the
scientist.
And from that day he has never shown the whites of his
eyes from the steps of the Colonial Secretary’s office.
True, he has ever since been turning up his eyes, and true
it is that their whites have been reflected in the sid and sal-
low, drawn and tightened, face of the hapless Abigail. But
that s all.
No. This country has burst the thongs of the tom-tom
beaters.
Sydney sends to the theatres on the Sunday evening ten
people to the one she sends to the churches.
The pieans of man’s etf rnal suffering in the depths of Hell
are drowned by the merry strains of woman’s melodious
voice and i he inspiriting sounds of music that kindle hope
and elevate the mind
Man is rising to be free. No more will ghouls point to a
black and hideous doom, and hold up to man’s distorted
vision a golden harp that is but as vapoury as the shadow on
the wall.
Millions of such men as Parkes are dead and rotting in
the grave. Are live men and a young country to dive into a
ooffin and bring forth as a leader a creature that s been the
home of worms for ages ?
No !'
This burst is a feeble imitation of that great
American legal luminary who opened a case with
the impassioned ory : “ Gentlemen, at this period
of dargness and gloom, when Europe stands on
the verge of an abyss and the demons of war and
discord are let loose on the fair face of the earth,
I rise with due diffidence to defend this humble
hog-thief.” It is a weird mixture of Parkes and
Sheol; the “paeans” of eternal perdition are
hitched on to the question of ODening the theatres
on Sunday, and the great Hi-Ham is accused,
amid a cataract of battered figures of speeoh, of
having been partly eaten by worms because he
was endeavouring, it seems, to hold up a golden
harp to man’s distorted vision when there wasn’t
any harp there at all. Still the above is Van
Haynes' unbiassed opinion of Van Parkes. Van
Parkes' opinion of Van Haynes is that he
“doesn’t want either his support or his acquaint-
ance,” which is about equivalent to saying
“take the animal away,” and Van Abigail's
opinion of the pair probably is that his
“ bank ” wouldn’t lend them anything
without good “shecurily.” Yet they all fight
together in the grand old cause of Imperial grovel,
and the ghost of Dutch William leads a happy
family in the great crusade for a Government
billet with a good screw attached.
“ When the W orld becomes more Civilised."
Judge Murray, of New fcouth W ales, is a citizen
of copious vocabulary and possesses a lot of style.
Also, he is a whale on human ty and a credit to a
civilised community, and has a large number of
morals to the square yard. The oth r day he was
sentencing a man at Armidale to five years’ and
25 lashes, and he spread himself over the case and
tore round it, and heaved the deceased cats of
sentiment and the decaying goats cf rhetoric at
the prisoner in the following fashion, as reported
by the local paper :
I only regret that I cannot punish you in a way that would
be even greater than death—greater than life-imprisonment;
hut through absurd sentimentality on the tart rf our legisla-
tors I cannot do this. No doubt the time will arrive—when the
world becomes more civilised—that such hideous, disgusting
crimes will be punished in the manner I have suggested.
Sensible people will know what I mean by this .
We have our doubts concerning that last assertion,
and we would urge Judge Murray not to speak
for a class of people whom he knows nothing
about. ‘ ‘ Sensible people ” will readily compre-
hend that the genial Judge is howling on the
Bench because he hasn’t authority to commit
some atrocity which would make a Hottentot
shudder beneath his life-long crust of grease and
dirt, but what kind of sickening barbarity he
wants to perpetrate he is apparently ashamed to
explain. Possibly he wants to boil the prisoner
slowly and deliberately, and then sentence him to
imprisonment for life on top of it. Perhaps he
would like to roast him over a gentle lire, and then
take him off when he is half done, and baste
him with tincture of cayenne and sulphuric acid,
and crucify him, and have him taken down
when he has been eruc'fied for an hour
or so, and cut his feet off, and then
have him flogged. Or maybe he would
like to revert to that grand old Tartar scheme of
cutting a man in two and planting the upper half
of him on a red-hot stove —a humorous dodge by
which part of a man could be kept alive for half-
sn-hour or so after the rest of him was dead.
Or, again, the idea which he wants “ sen-
sible people” to citch on to may be that
of a certain Russian Czar who dislocated
all a prisoner’s limbs and then put him
in an oven, or he may yearn for the
Moorish device by which a man’s hands and feet
were mashed to a pulp with sledge-hammers, after
which he was turned loose to crawl through the
balance of existence on his knees and elbows.
If Judge Murray is not utterly ashamed of the
particular plan of mutilation which he longs for
he might as well explain himself more fully next
time. It is a very inferior kind of barbarian
who, through a piece of “ absurd sentimentality, ’
can’t screw up his courage to define his own
theories, and as the judge reckons that his own
special atrocity will come into favour when the
world be.comes more civilised he might as well
assist the march of that approaching civilisation
by lecturing on the enlightened hideousness of
the future, and by putting in a diagram or two to
illustrate the way it is to be done. As a sort of
postscript we would suggest the Chinese “ ling-
chi ’ as an arrangement which ought to be satis-
factory to all parties. It is simple and amusing,
and consists in cutting slices off a lire prisoner
until there is very little lefb of him. Will his
alleged Honor kindly state whether this will suit ?
+
Why the Workman Is a Socialist.
This, from the latest i«sue of Lloyd’s, is the kird
of thing we are eternally finding in the English
papers:—
DIE RATHER THAN SEPARATE
Mr. Carttar held an ir.quest at the City Arms, Deptford,
on Wednesday, on the body of Thomas Ansell, aged 81.
of Griffin-street, Deptford. Ann Ansell, aged 77, said
deceased was her husband, and they lived in a furnished room.
They had 3s 61. a week from the parish, out of which thf y
paid 2s. lent. They had nothing else to live upon She used
to go out with a basket and laces, but In r hawkei’s license
expired six months ago, and she could not raise 53 to renew
it. Deceased, who was taken ill about a fortnight ago, had
not left the house for 12 months. It was arranged they
should go into the workhouse on Tuesday. On Boxing Day,
however, she got out of bed to get him a cup of tea, and
then he “closed his poor dear eyes,” and she sent for a
neighbour. All she had * as a cup of tea and a piece of bsead.
Her husband had said if he went into the workhouse he
would not live a week. The relieving offhe' had never sug-
gested that the deceased should go there. She intended to
enter Greenwich Union Infirmary now, but not before the
funeral, On Christmas Day she had a little meat given to
her, but had had very little filing last week. She owed no
rent. Mrs. Murphy, the landlady of the house, said that
she let the room furnished, and reduced the rent from 3a. to
2a. The wife worked hard with her basket, but, being very
feeble, did net sell much. Ansell had told witness that if
he and his wife could be together, they would go into the
“ house ’■ but if they could not they would die together.
The wife was very devoted to the deceased Mr. Pilcher,
relieving officer, stated that he had told Ansell he would
bebsttereff in the workhouse but he would not listen to
it. There were wards at the bouse for old married
couples, but they were not kept together if one was
sick. He did not tell deceased he could be with his
wife ia the workhouse. A juryman said 19 out of 20
would not enter the house for fear of being separated
at the door. Police-constable Woodinhs, coroners officer,
declared on opening the door of the room that the stench
was dreadful, and he had the window opened before enter-
ing. He found Ansell lying on the bed terribly emaciated,
and concluded that it a c„se of starvation. The coroner
said it appeared to him that the case was one of sheer desti-
tution and starvation, and the old man would not enter the
workhouse for fear of being separated from his wife. Mr.
Pender, a juryman, said that Ansell had toll him that
sooner than euterthe workhouse and be separated from his
wife he would die on the doorstep, he (Mr Pender) had
been ill through going into the room. The i nly food he
ever saw there was dry bread, with a little dripping, perhaps
a herring, and in season a pennyworth of sprats between the
old couple. They were married whe n the wife was 21 (56
years ago)! The jury returned a verdict of “Death from
decay of nature, death being accelerated by the want of
sufficient nourishment.”
+
■The following was written by William Morris,
the Socialist poet, for the funeral of Linnell, the
workman killed by the police at Trafalgar-
square :
What cometh here from west to east a-wendiog ?
And who are these, the marchers stern and slow?
We bear the message that the rich are sending
Aback to those who bate them wake and know.
Not one, not one, nor thousands must they slay,
But one and all if they would dusk the day.
We asked them for a life of toilsome earning,
They b ide us bide their leisure for our bread.
We craved to speak to tell our woeful learning,
We come back speechless, bearing back our dead.
Not ore, &c.
They will not learn ; they have no ears to hearken.
Tney turn their faces from the eyes of fate;
Their gay-lit halls shut out the skies that darken.
But, lo ! this dead man knocking at the gate.
Not one, &c.
Here lies the sign that we shall break our prison;
Amidst the storm he won a prisoner's rest;
But in the c oudy dawn the sun arisen
Brings us our day c f work to win the best.
Not one, not c ne, nor thousands must they slay,
But one and all if they would dusk the day.
Mr. Z. C. Barry, the happy owner of 210 shares
in the now notorious Gold Hill (N.S. W.) mine,
seems an unfortunate specimen of the lamb on the
sloes exchange. Now that the bottom has to a
considerable extent fallen out of the enterprise in
which his hopes were embarked, he admits that
he was loosing for five tons of gold r’ght off, and
expected to see about 100 buLocks bringing down
the first cake in a big tank, amid the hoorays of
the excited populace. Someone at the mine
pointed out to him two tanks which, he said, con-
tained 10 tons of quartz, “half of it being pure
gold,” and Z.C. figured out from this that there
was something near £1,000,000 to the good before
the mine was fairly opened. At a banquet which
was held on the same auspicious occasion one of
the speakei’3 exp-essed a firm conviction that
there was 10 hundredweight of gold on hand,
but Mr. Barry reckoned that he had seen four
or five tons himself, and concluded that the
speaker didn’t know what he was tala itg about.
Somebody also stuffed Mr. Barry with the idea
that the manager was so much overwhelmed by
this stupendous wealth that he declined to crush
the material except in the presence of the direc-
tors and legal manager, fearing that £250,000
worth or so might be mislaid, and that he might
be blamed for the loss, finally, eight months
work brought out a total of 400 oz, which has
made Mr. Barry sit up. Probably when he
has had a larger experience of gold mining
he may take thiDgs a little more calmly. The
present writer has individually owned more than
one mine that promised as well as poor Barry’s
busted vision, and ho had to get away by the
dirt road on foot for want of money to pay for the
loan of a glandored nag to facilitate his retreat .
Mr. Barry would do well to make a note of this
circumstance in the days of his youth, for if he
takes a hand in a fe w more five-ton enterprises
the chances are that when old ago comes upon
him he won’t b > able to pay for coaii.


HISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
There were many privileged ruffians in
early New South Wales, but none so richly de-
serve to be tie a up to the t> iangles of history and
flogged with the “cat” of honest criticism as
Captain John Macarthur, He was one of our
first merchants—such merchants as the officers of
the New South Wales Corps were. He w-s the
founder of the squatting order - bat his public
thefts were not confined to the public lands. He
was the originator of the wool growing industry.
But John Macarthur was a gw t deal besides all
that. “De mortuis nil nisi bonum,” says some-
one ; but the last word is an error. It should read
“ vtrum ” instead,
* * *
Inasmuch as he opened up the wool-grow-
ing industry he did good work. But it paid him,
Tcere was no mawkish philanthropy about) John
Macarthur. He was as rapacious a 3 a jackal,
and as emotionless and cold a 3 an oyster. There-
fore his proj sets prospered well- He grew wool
just as he sold rum—to make money. He made
io ; but the persons who have written Australian
history want to make him a hero and a patriot as
we l. He was a patriot But it was of the Aus-
tralian brand And the juscraliaa brand has
certain distinctive features which make it pecu-
liar to Australia. Those who are ignorant of
what these distinctive fe Hun s ura may glean a
fair idea by noting the char icteriatics of this
worthy Captain John Macarthur. All our patriots
have a family resemblance. We will maik this
one with the lash as he h- ngs by the wrists at the
triangles of history, so that you may know the
type when you meet it in Australian public life,
or in these pages again.
* # *
Macarthur was about 20 years of age when
he came to Botany Bay as Paymaster and Liau-
tenant in the Corps, with the first division that
reached the settlement. If there was any doubt
as to the motive that brought his confederates to
Australia, there was never any about what
brought him. He came to make money, and he
made it. When the “ rum-selllog corps ” was in
action, he was always in the van. His hand was
in everything that was going. The Corps put
him forward as its representative, and he fought
for their privilege to rob and defraud the soldier
and the convict, and called his action a defence of
the popular rights. He harassed the successive
Governors, and boasted of having procured the
recall of every one of them up to Macquarie. He
helped to chase Phillip out of the country, and,
when Hunter came, he persecuted that unhappy
person so far that he had to appeal to the Home
Government against him. “ I consider this offi-
cer’s conduct to be an impertinent, indiscreet,
and highly censurable interference with the duties
and department of the Governor,” he wrote, when
Macarthur went home to work up a feelieg
against him there. When King came he made
himself as obnoxious as before, and scarcely
allowed that good sea-captain time to flog his
woman-convicts. This exasperated King very
much, and he stated his views in certain lurid
minutes to his superiors, ending with the words,
“ Should any further proof be wanting of the tur-
bulent and restless character of Captain Mac
arthur, I must require that the evidence of the
late Governors Phillip and Hunter may be pro-
cured.”
• • •
Whoever opposed the nefarious proceed-
ings of the Corp 3 came in for his unscrupulous
attacks. He had his faction amongst the settlers,
and to those who did not belong to it his name
was a cause of undisguised terror. When Judge
Advocate Atkins was not intoxicated, he was
quarrelling with Macarthur, too. and some pretty
squabbles were the result. They took action for
libel against each other, but dropped them
promptly, doubtless for excellent reasons on both
sides. When the magistrate, Dr. Balmain, re-
fused to play into the hands of the Corps they
persecuted him, too, and Macarthur was singular
for the cunning yet shameless way in which ha
slandered the magistrate ; who replied, “ that he
would maintain to his las . breath the character of
a gentleman, in defiance of every unmanly mode
of detraction that Mr. Macarthur ia capable of
using.” When the jackals of the Corps began to
quarrel amongst themselves over the bon?a they
stole, Macarthur, of coarse, was in the thick of
the scramble. Captain Abbott, of the Corps, said
something quaint about Governor King, and
Lieutenant Marshall, of the Navy, whose proud
soul revolted at this Insult to another naval officer
from a squalid captain of this unsavoury body,
pleasantly signified his sentiments by pulling Cap-
tain Abbott's nose. They fought duels on Garden
Island in those days ; but Captain Abbott didn’t.
He thought it safer to bring a civil action Colonel
Paterson—a not unworthy officer, though in very
bad company—could not help sympathising with
Marshall. The irrepressible Macarthur there-
upon picked a quarrel with his officer, and ohal
longed him to a duel, Then the Governor got dis-
gusted with the whole miserable business, and
sent Maoarthur home under arrest. But he soon
came back. There was no scope for talents like
his out of a convict colony.
# * *
Why did Macarthur come into such fre-
quent conflict with the Governor and other
officials ? Simply because ha had the largest
state in the trading operations of the Carp 3 as
already described. He and his accomplices wera
making fortunes out of the cruelly-forced con-
vict labour, the open fraud and extortion prac-
tised on tha soldiers and settlers, and the control
and monopoly of that criminal traffic in rum which
turned the early settlement into a Pandamcnium.
It has been said that Macarthur treated his
assigned convict servants well. If he did it was
for the re urn their prisoft-labour might produce
him. But, fortunately, we have an explicit re-
cord bearing indirectly on this matter, which
fairly states his g iod intentions for what they wera
wor h. Macarthur mada a public-spirited pro-
posal to Governor Hun’er to relieve him of the
care of a number of convic s by taking them to
work for him. He took great credit for his
generosity in offering bread-rate for their labour.
Hunter looked up his pocket-grammar, and fixed
the patriot neatly, thus : “ Tha daily wages of a
labouring man, without furnishing food, was, at
that time, 53. or something more, and the price of
bread was about 2ji. per lb. Supposing a man to
receive two poundi a day, t at would amount to
sd. ; for this mighty savi <g to Government of si.
he would have g i el 5s ia labour.” So Mr
M carthur's be evidence was b igh'ed; and
nothing is here apparent to show why his turn as
the triangles of history should be abridged by so
much as a single lash.
* # *
It was part of the plan of these officers,
and of Macarthur as their spokesman, to oppose
every measure for the amelioration of the con-
victs’ lot. To secure their own ascendancy they
put forward every effort to crush the emancipated
prisoners. When a proposal was made to establish
them on small farms, so that they might have an
opportunity of living honestly by their own labour,
he vehemently opposed the project of giving land
to what fce called tha “idle, worthless poor,”
whom he said should be “ obliged to employ them-
selves In the service of an industrious and vigi-
lant master”—assisted by a fligger, ooubtless.
For the same reason, respectable settlers with
capital, coming to the country, were opposed and
persecuted, Two such man, named Ellis and
Boston, firmly but in guarded language ventured
to protest against the exclusive monopoly claimed
by ihe officers, of all trade and business. * ‘ This
irritated the whole governing despotic power of
the settlement against them,” wrote Palmer, one
of the Scotch Martyrs; “ they were refused a
grant of land and servants, and never employed.”
But Hunter relieved them from their disabilities
when he arrived, and the two men afterwards
prospered in business, and became wealthy. But
it is time to cut John Maoarthur down, and let
him go howling away until we want him again.
* *
Margarot’s evidence was given before the
Committee of the Oommoas in 1812 It describes
the state of things tha : led up co the Bligh fiasco.
In answer to questions he said, on oath, thac the
morals and conduc: of oonvic s were nst improved
at Botany Bay, owing to the officers who were
sent out there. To their trado, in which they had
engaged “to a man,’’ and personal ignorance
alone he attributed their behaviour, which he
described as barbarous and cruel in the extreme.
“ Their trade,” he said, “consists first of mono-
poly, and then of extortion; it includes all
the necessaries of life which are brought to
the colony.” The trade is thus described:
“ When a ship has arrived, and the goods
have been landed in tha King’s stores,
after a few days the stores are opened to the
officers, who go In, lay their hands on everything
of value, and have their names affixed to it as
purchasers, and they leave nothing but the refuse
for the colony ; having done so by themselves or
by their agents, they retail that, as I have said
before, at 500 per cent, profit.” Other state moats
make the profit run up to 1500 percent. “If
you offended one officer,” continued Mr. Margarot,
“ you offended the whole ; and any poor prisoner
that had the misfortune to offend any one officer,
would be sure to get a flogging from some other.”
Such was the state of the colony when Governor
Lieutenant Marshall signified his sentiments by pulling Captain Abbott’s nose.
Bligh arrived. He cams with instructions to put
a stop as far as was possible to the traffic in
liquor, and to curtail and check tbe procaeiings
of the officers of tha Ne w South Wales Corp 3. It
was a perilous mission, for the officers had had
everything their own way for many years, and
their power and interests were by this time con-
solidated. In the light of these facts, what com3s
after wiil ba more readily understood.
# * *
No one has ever ventured to deny that
Bligh was a brave man, except the gallant officers
of the Corps. They were not the best judges of
couraga and gallantry, but they said they cap-
tured the Governor under a bed. Bligh’s record
saems to give this statement the lie, but not more
emphatically than the character of those who
made it. He was famous before he came to the
colony. The story of the mutiny of the Bounty
has been often told, and there is little need to re-
peat here how his crew rose in iasubcrdinaiion,
captured the vessel, and set Bligh and his officers
afloat in an open boab on the wide Pacific ; how
he sailed 3500 miles, and was saved, while the
mutineers colonised Pitcairn’s Island in their own
way. Bligh had also been Involved in the mutiny
at tb e Nore. He had been twice court- m artialled,
and censured once for intemperate language. He
sailed with Captain Cook for four years in the
Reso’ution. He fought under Admirals Hiwe
and Parker. He foatjht at Oopenh *g. n under
Nelson, and was publicly thanked on the quarter-
deck by the great commander afeer the engage-
ment. He gave up the command of a 72 gun
ship to come to New South Wales. From a 1 this
it will be seen that he had a high character for
bravery and gord servioe, but also a reputation
for hasty temper and high spirit. This kind of
man was not cunning or mean enough to have
any chance in the cinflict with the officers of the
Corps. They saw his weak points, and attacked
them. They made his two comt-martials and his
censure for intern Derate language their oppor-
tunity, and they reli .d'on this part of his record
as their justification for the vile conspiracy into
which they ent rad in tbe interests of their own
selfish rapacity and dishonest trade. Here, tgain,
Mr. Macarthur co es to tbe front. An oppor-
tunity r.ow offered for the play of thoße '-ialster
talen<s in which he r eculi -ly excelled. We must
tie him up to the triang e 3 t ga ? n.
A Nov Misery.
The Parkes Ministry has made a cheap bid for
the support of the Sydney Morning Herald.
For some time back that pondorous pillar of the
cause has shown signs of falling away from grace
—and Parkes - and it was therefore considered
advisable to make an effort to bring it back to the
fold. Consaquently, the following circular was
sent out to aff the sohoolsin New South Wales
as a fitting conclusion to tbe Centenary re-
jolc’ngs :
The Minister of Public Instruction has authorised the
transmission to every school under this Department of a
c my of tha Centenary Number of the Sydney Morning
Herald of this date, which contains a special supplement
dealiag with tha progr-ss of Australian settlement, together
with maps of New Sauth Wales, Aus.ralia, &o The news-
paper will be forwarded to y u from the Herald office. It
is desired that you will make known the contents of the
arlides to such pupils of the school under your charge as are
capable of understanding them, and th it you will make the
best use posable of the maps.
The hideous cruelty of this move can only be
understood by a man who has devoted himself
to a prayerful study of the Herald. There are
few who. can comprehend that paper—fewer still
who can stand a proloi ged acquaintance with it
It is too undermining to the mental faculties.
Even when the 'erald merely attempts to con-
vey the information that one drunk was fined 55,,
it does it in a way that petrifies the brain, and
whin it states that a local Borough Council met
on a slushy night in a back street and couldn’t
form a quorum, it fixe3 up the knowledge in an
ecudi e fashion which is calculated to make a
mlgtfiy intellect wobble. The Centenary Herald
was, if anything, more solemn than the average,
and many a six-foot policeman weLtiu to strugg’e
*ith it and was lo3D. Yet, for the sake of a little
political support, Parkes and Co have ordered
that ttaii publication should be pounded into the
infant intellect all over New South Wales, and
sorrowful small boys with inky collars and little
girls with pinnies are now tearfully wrestling
with such items as these
Officers and teachers in the Department of Public Instruc
tion who are not subject to the regulative and disciplinary'
provisions of the Act are subject to the provisions for super-
annuation and kindred purpose According to these, offi-
cers of 60 years of age and upwards, of right, and under that
age on proof of mental or bodily infirmity, can claim a retir-
ing allowance; but where they retire on account of in-
firmity, if restored to health they may be called upon to re-
sume their duties The scale begins at 15 years service,
when one quarter of the annual salary is allowed, and one-
sixtieth of the annual salary for every additional year of
service The allowance must not, however, exceed two-
thirds of the annual salary. The salary is computed on the
average of the pavment for the three years preceding retire-
ment, exclusive of forage and travelling allowances. In caEe
of compulsory retirement, where an officer is not entitled to
a superannuation allowance, a gratuity cf one month s pay
for each year of service may be'granted. Where an officer is
incapacitated by bodily injury suffered in the discharge of
his duty, a gratuity of two months’ pay for each year of ser-
vice may be granted, and in case of death, under the same
circumstances, a grant of a like sum may be made to the
widow, children, or mother of the deceased. If an officer
die leaving a widow or children under the age of 16 in neces-
sitous circumstances, a gratuity not exceeding six months’
pay may be granted.
There are 36 columns of this kind of stuff, and the
infants are to plod through it all. Any poor,
miserable little wretoh who can commit to memory
tbe whole tremendous lot wilt deserve to prosper
in after life if he doesn’t burst with the pressure
of his own knowledge. The Herald’s notion of
history includes pretty nearly everything that Is
dry, pompous, and dismal, from the year One
right down to the by-laws which govern the
driving of a dust-oarb through the streets, and
the rules for the admission of a patient with a
broken leg to Sydney Hospital; it also covers the
number of tramcars run in Adelaide and the
mean shade temperature of Northern Queensland
worked out in decimals, and these joyous facts
are illustrated by copies of the maps which were
in us 3 in the New South Wales schools a dozen
years ago. The publicity given to this b trge-load of
literary debris may possibly be gra'ifyirg to the
Herald, bub it is a ghastly infliction on the rising
generation, and calculated to undermine the
morals and constitutions of the coming race of
Australians. And, bad as the look out is
for the scholars, it is almost worse for
their instructors, and many a watery-eyed pupil-
teachsr will curse Parkes in his inmost soul
when he views tbe 36 dismal columns which
he has to “impart” to a shock-headed and bewil-
dered gathering. Moreover, apart from the insult
< ffered to the human understanding, the schools
which are maintained at the expense of the nation
were never intended to serve as vehicles for the
dissemination of the gospel of the Caliao Jimmies,
and far the spread of garbled statistics to prove
the advisability of importing foreign goods while
Australians are starving for want of work
Neither were they ever meant to serve as a cheap
advertisement for any paper which it suits Parkes
to grovel to. Tney have already been raked over
in search of coin for the Hi-Ham’s testimonial,
and many an infant has been bout.cad out of the
penny which should have bought her lunch and
had to go hungry while Parkes graciously took
the copper, ’lho hoary sham t-houli rest satisfied
with these achievements, and leave tha school-
children in pe; ca for the future. If he mußfc tout
for the Herald, let him preserve some outward
sambiance of decency, and canvass somebody a
littlo nearer to his own s’ze, and. above all, let
him do it as a private speculation. The New South
Wales Treasury has sufficient calls upon it with-
out being used to advertise the obtrusive dismal-
ness of the Foreiga-trade Press.
Parkes is a Mandarin—a mandarin
Orangeman.
CORRESPONDENCE
Co operative (Melbourne): The whole thing is
simple enough. You say that some of those who propose co-
operating in the establishment of a printing business have
plant and some havj m .ney. Very well; first pay every
man, according to his services, on a scale you may yourselves
agree upon if you are dissatisfied with the rates that rule
the labour market. Then, out of the surplus, pay far the
plant, treating its owner as an altogether outside party. Get
competent valuators to assess its value, if you like, and then
buy it on the time-payment principle—s > much a week with
a fair inte-eat on deferred payments. Now for the capital-
owning members of the co-operation. Treat them also as
out aid 5 parties. Re-pay their money in instalments, with a
moderate interest added. At the end of the year you may
have profits to divide. If you run the thing properly you
certainly ought to have. You hava in the gw dilated scale of
wages already recognised the difference in the respective
values of the co-operators' labour, and the profit is the result
of your united labour, of the least with the best-rndowed
working in harmony. Divide, therefore, equally, giving to
each a correlative fractional amount, for profit accrues from
the diligence and zaal of the whole C J.K.: Only of local
interest....A Coon: Thanks. Please Bend name and ad-
dress.,.. Walter Carson (Panbula): A better idea would be
far the heads of the Orange or New’ Holland party in N.S.W
to add “ Van” to their names in deference to the memory
of the pious and immortal Dutch potentate by whom they
are ruled. Van Jessup, Van Abigail, Van Henson, would,
in the memorable words of Mr. Alfred Bennett, “ take well
and give pleasure to all.” An Englishman: The mistake
is an obvious one. We know just as well as you do, and
h ave known it for many years, that the Duke of Cambridge
is Queen Victoria’s cousin, not her uncle. How men like
the H ihenzollerns must laugh at such a dumpy lump of im
becility at the head of an army! J. P. Clifford; Did you
write this ‘ love poem ’ in cold blood
Bright breaks the warrior o'er the ocean wave
Through realms that rove not, clouds that cannot save,
But cooped up here, within this awful place,
I still do see, Maria, thy dear face.
Thou lookest the same as when in Sydney I left thee
Thy absence of sense has almost bereft me.
Who broke the warrior ? Was he stone-broke, and why did
he break over the ocean wave instead of into a jug? Also,
did you ever see realms that ‘ roved,' and what in thunder
did you expect the clouds to save, and why do you go and
talk of Maria’s ’ absence of sense ? ’ It is mean to
give a girl away as a prize idiot like that
Phos. (Geelong): No, it does not follow that the Crown
Prince will be Emperor of Germany. The Imperial position
of Germany is elective and not hereditary. The Empire
compiises four kingdoms, several grand-duchies, duchies,
principalities, and electorates, and the Emperor of Germany
is chosen by the rulers of these various States. The King of
Prussia managed to obtain his election to the post of Im
perial master of Teutondom as much by diplomacy as by
force. Prussia was in a position to enforce her claims, but
she may not be in a similar position in respect to the elective
Diet the.next tims an Emporor has to be elected. The Ger
man Imperial crown was for many generations monopolised
by the Hapsburgs, the hereditary rulers of Austria. Austria
is now more a Magyar than a German State, and the Im-
perial rule of Germany seems to have taken up its abode
with the Hohenzollerns, the erstwhile electors of Branden-
burg and Kings of Prussia... .Darlinghurst: We ask
for bread and you have sent us chestnuts
E. Matterson: Didn’t Walter Thornbury write Old Stories
Retold” ?.„..Quiz : We exceedingly regret that your items
have been mißlaid. ~A.W. : The history of New South
Wales—or rather, New Holland—commences at the Battle
of the Boyne. Ask Haynes and Abigail Sylvanus: Many
thanks. ...B.S. : Haven't you heard the French proverb abou
the hen that crows, the priest that dances, and the woman
that talks Latin?...Fred Wilckins (Carlton, Melb) : We fully
admit all you claim on behalf of the Gt rmans, whom we term
“ the Chinese of Europe ” only in point of frugality and un.
complainiog perseve-ance. On reading Walter Besant’s
“Katharine Ragina ’ y.u will clearly discern qur stand-
point Our Freedom; Logical but lengthy. Will prayer-
fully oonsider Sicolna : Harhly suited A. E Bonney :
Thanks Pro Bono Publico; Right.,.. Patria : Australia’s
only genuine source of danger is from that same Imperial
connection which, in the event of England going to war
with any great power, would probably be used as an excuse
far a looting expedition directed at one of our great cities....
Geo. Fisher : Good item ; will use H.B. ; Will notice in
future issue... R Kerr (Ultimo) : Received... .0. Leyward :
We know of no special brand of Republicanism as applied to
Australia. Read the Constitution of the United States of
America, the declaration of the Rights of Man of the French
Revolutionary Convention, and the “ Monarchical Lie,” b
Max Nordau. There are thousands of books on th
subject, and the journals and newspapers devoted
it are legion Liurence Gronlund gives an admirable
exposition of the aims of German Socialism in his book,
“The Co-operative Common wealth," published by Swan,
Sonneschein and Co., London, price 2s. A capital book on
the labour question from it 3 statistical side can be had for a
shilling—“ The Labour Movement in America,” by Edward
and E.eanor Marx Aveling... .Wat Le Rum: Your poetry is
“undergoing the process of translation” at the N,S W.
Mines Department... .Gum Leaf: Always glad to hear from
you. Yours of 27th Jan. duly to hand.... James Casey:
Thank you !... Greatest Common Measure: Your “screed'
is the greatest uncommon measure we have ever received on
the subject Cynion: We are s’eeping over vour verse....
William Lyell: How in thunder did you gather that The
Bulletin attributed the wrongs proceeding from social
anomalies exclusively to “ drink and ignorance ” ? There is
no need to rebuke us for adopting such a narrow mental out-
look, for we are »t one with you in all you say about “ effete
BOfial instincts” and the “inequalities in the distribution of
wealth,” You must have been reading the S.M. Herald...
Piuto : When Mayor Riley said that Stanley was a hero
worthy the Victoria Crosq he probably metnt that Mary
Jane Hicks’ alleged champion should be crucified upon it.
~..P. T. Wheaiy: The Constitution can ba obtained in
pamphlet form.... Hue: If you ' pull at the hem of our gar-
ment ’ again we shall probably kick out savage y behind ..
Midgerah: Thanks, but the par is very local....Cyniro:
Does that sort of chronic toadyism surprise you ? Now,
does it? ...Old Furniture: Will comider... .Australian
Native : We believe that the Sydney Republ ean Union is
still in existence, but why not j in a local branch of the
Land Nationalisation League, which is quite as calculated to
foster the sentiments of Y< ung Australia in regard to a
national faith ?....P. W. Nicholson (Bundaberg): For
further consideration....W. G Darling (Orange): Many
thanks for letter in re Land Nationalisation. Have written.
... Agnes Perrin : Received... JD.H.M. : Your poems are
under the lynx-ltke eye of our relitieus editor, who will re-
port upon them when he finishes centsnniating Old Crow:
Unfortunately, your contiibution was mislaid S. S,
(Macleay River): The conductors of The Bulletin didn’t
come from America. The Bulletin has a definite pur-
pose in dealing with the past history of N.S.W. —it is deter-
mined to fully ventilate the causes from which have sprung,
am ug other thinirs, a corrupt and Toryisa p- li Steal system
and a brutal criminal code, whereunuer 22 offenses are
punishable by c.e tth as against two offences at the most so
punishable under the laws of England, America, France,
Germany, Ita'y, Austria, Spain, Russia Switzerland, Nor-
way and Sweden. Read the introduction to The Bulle-
tin s History ef Botany Bay, and you will see what is
aimed at . J. Jones : ‘ A Mistaken Patriot’ credits Sydney
Daily Telegraph with a policy which is borrowed from
The Bulletin A. M'Kye: Thanks Torrallila.
Many thanks J.H.B, : Article read, and highly approved
0f....Zu1u: Will consider JLeG. B. : Under considera-
tion.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal— " Mikado '■ ,„_r.
Oriterion Theatre.—" Forty Thieves ” ...
Her Majesty’s Theatre.— 1 “In The Ranks
Alhambra Music Hall—Sacred Concert ___ _ _
Alhambra Music Hall—Minstrelsy
The Federal show at Sydney A.cadem;
has revived a lot this week, but t:
members of the company don’t put on a
extra style in private life on account of th
and still c?rry their clothes wrapped up in a new
paper as be:ore The great feature of the pr
gramme is the glove contest between Koi
(Keenan) and Murke (Moynham), who lc
their angry passions loose in eight rounc
till the ferocious exhibition ends in a blooc
thirsty draw. Both of them get severely injur
In the course cf the contest through falling dow
heavily whenever they come within four yards o:
each other, and not getting up again for som
considerable time, and at times they are wi
difficulty restrained from getting out of the rin
and hitt'ng the spectator*.. The desperate e
counter is carried out with 101 b. gloves, and,
Saturday night, we observed wi*h alarm that t
combatants more than once came near whackin
each other on the head Exhibitions of this kinc
we consider, should not be allowed unless hot
parties are under the influence cf chloroform. T
rest of the programme is too numerous to mentio
in detail. Faust, the white eyed Kaffir, prove
on inspection, to be merely a thin nigger wit
whitewash on his head, but he discourses swee
music, and gets two encores. Horace Bent an
Beaumont Read have compounded a sketch ant
an extravaganza, both of wh'ch are wildly e
travagant, and the show, generally, is above pa
We bestow upon it our blessing.
## # #
“ Faust ” has got a firm hold at Sydne;
Gaiety, and keeps on improving every night. M
Damphr’s Mephistopheles has taken possession
themul itude, and they roll up regularly to se
where they are all going to, and what sort of
devil they will meet when they get there. Fo
our own part, Mr. Dam pier is just the sort o
demon that we would be glad to go to if we hac
to go and couldn’t help ouiselves. He is gay an
airy, filled with sardonic jests, irony, and bravad
and even in his moments of gloom he is an agre
able companion, eminently suited for a sma
dinner party. To a man of refinement it woul
be humiliating in the last degree to find his bo
in the text world a small, washed-out Individua
with a red nose and a bruised misfit belltoppe
which he had stolen from some deacon wh
came down with it on—a snuffy, seedy fiend
weeping drunk and liable to have a head on him
next morning like any common mortal, and th
presence of such an individual would be eminent
calculated to make him wish he hadn’t bee
d d. Mr. Dampier’s example, ho wove
should make the foul fiend straighten up anc
flour his nose and behave himself, and if it doe
he will have the satisfaction of knowing that h
has not played “ Faust” in vain.
#* * #
The “ Miksdo ” keeps up its continuou
riot at Sydney Royal with financial results of
gratifying character. Ko-Ko has tacked on
new verse which Gilbert never dreamt of to h
“ little list,” and, strange to say, it gets more ap
plause than all the rest of the song. Perhaps th
public fancy 1 he wrote it himself, but we dls’en
being of opinion that he hooked it from a Ne
Zsaland paper. The venerable grandmothers
the chorus are in good voice, and don’t look mor
than 17, and— well, that Is about all this week
At Sydney Criterion the flow of oily Arabia
gimmon will continue uninterruptedly till Satur
day, when a n6W comic opera will be producec
It is named “ Dick,’’ and the responsibility of i
rests on Edward Jaoobowski. The “ Fort
Thieves ” have had rather a hypochondriac re
oeption from the public, and Providence hasn
tempered the wind to the shorn A rab; conse
quently the ancient ghouls of B agdad have le
solved to shift their tent. George Rignolc
at Her Majesty's, runs “In the Ranks” a
he did in the blessed days of yore, and t
all appearance he means to run ih till Death shie
its flat-iron at mortality, and his audience go t
be stirred up with a long pole in tbe region wher
things never come to an end. Sydney has now
had about two months of “In the Ranks,” and
seems to be standing it pretty well, all things
considered. The Alhambra has some more new
programme, and is so full that a dramatic oriti
oan’t get into it without being squeezed flat
People who have esoapsd from it alive, however
report favourably on the performance,
#* # #
Oat at the little village of Coogee, where
tbe sad sea waves sing their wasby song to the
erab, the winkle, and the great Eea-serpent, the
Aquarium has lately been going in for unwontec
revelry. Mr. A. T. Smith, described in the bill
as the “renowned characteristic burlesque anc
scientific skatorial artist,” backs himself for £5OO
to lick anything mortal on two legs which cares
to skate against him, and, meanwhile he exhibits
his skill in marvellous slippery evolutions for the
gratification of the public. It is rumoured tha
Parke? intends to take up the challenge anc
deposit his bill at three months without endorse
ment in the hands of the management, but this
report at present lacks confirmation.
At Melbourne Town Hall to-night (Feb.
16) the Italians lift up their voices in farewell
concert. Ib ia their own particular corroboree,
and those tuneful lineal descendants of Romulus
have pledged themselves to make more high-class
melody than has ever yet been heard in a Town
Hall. Prices are strictly moderate.
*# # *
“ Sentenced to Death,” fresh from
Adelaide, is keeping Melbourne Royal aired until
Saturday, when Charles Warner appears in
Drink," CQarles, by the way, looks youDgar
and more vigorous than of yore, and his daughter
a J ar * a * rer than a pro arranged boxing match.
At the Princeps’s, “ Dorothy” never flags, but the
“you bill will suffer a change on Saturday, unless
a deputation waits upon Signor Holloway and im-
plores him to Romeo for six nights longer. “ The
°uk Stockings ” crowd are going on more than
ever at Victoria Hall, and that braw laddie, the
-Maccabe, is attracting audiences of Christian
aspect to the respectable Athenaeum. Mao
nas taken up very satisfactory collections, but
the end of his season draweth near, after
which Dull Care will return like the Prodigal
seeking what he can devour. Coghill Bros, have
collected some interesting specimens of beauty
at d agility at St. George’s Hall, and it has
an early bird that oatohes a front seat,
meboss niggers contrive to keep on being funny
without getting monotonous (which is hard work
as times go), while there is a flavour of novelty
ab ° u t the grotesque business of Dolowry, Craydon,
and Holland, and the wheezes of a youth named
Jones. This reminds one that the Browns and
Joneses are better off for humour than the Robin-
sons. No Robinson ever set a table in a roar.
The ladies of this company are distingue to an
unusual degree, and Miss Ada Walker's singing
is a bib in front of anything else on the variety
stage.
## * #
The fascinating St. Maur is making things
vastly pleasant at Melbourne Alexandra, where
“The Arabian Nights” acquires more giddy polish
as time goes on. There is so much human nature
about this accomplished actor —especially when ha
takes the ladies on his knee and practices a Grceco-
Roman hug—that it has infected his company to
some small extent, and made them less like an
arid desert surrounding a grcen oasis of St Maur.
But, considering that the Alexandra stage is a few
s!z 3 s too large far light comedy, it is a pity this
amusing show couldn’a be set up at the Opera
House, in place of Mesmeriser Kennedy. That
canny magician continues to find employment for
a faithful band of “subjects,” who go through
the sa ne old unhealthy tommy-nonsense with an
ardour worthy of a nobler cause. A p.ivate per-
formance for the especial benefit of the medical
profession and the Press was arranged last week.
Kennedy threw his three staunchest adherents
into a condition which was cataleptic or acrobatic,
and proceeded to “test ’ them on a system of bis
own. Theae tests so far sa isfied tbe medicine-
men that they went away wagging theic beads ; but
as the Press never gob a look in anyho v, they
departed with a sneaking suspicion that they had
been “ had.”
## # #
“ Sophia,” at the Theatre Royal, Adelaide,
has been drawing like a poultioe, the story of
Tom Jone 3 appearing to suit the tastes of the
pious people. The comedy is very well acted,
Messrs. Titheradge, Ward, and Boucicault being
in their best form. Tommy Hudson is now in
his seventh month at Garner’s Theatre, and,
judging fromths crowded houses nightly, is likely
to go on till the day the trumpets are to sound,
and, perhaps, even after that.
## * #
The proprietors of a London music-hail
distributed 500 joints of mea'i and sundry half-
crowns among the poor of their district du-iog
Christmas we3k, We hope the Triumvirate are
paying attention.
## # #
A dramatised version of “ Dun Quixote ”
has been written to Henry Irying’s esteemed
order, and will be.produced at the Lyceum bafore
tbe end of the year.
•AU Af. At.
*7T TV* Tr
The father of Signora Majeroni, an ac-
complished actor in his day, died last month.
## # #
Martin Simonaen departed by ths steamer
Yarra last week. Madame Marie Roza is to
appear in Melbourne in March, 1889, Thisis a
long way off, and there may not be any such
place as Melbourne, or Sydney either, by
that time. Mr. G. R. Ireland, thB well-known
actor, used to be a lawyer's clerk 30 years ago. If
he had stuck to tha law he might have
sunk into a judge by this time. Sara
Bernhardt kisses her stage costumes when
she is particularly pleased with them. She also
kisses the person who makes them. An Auck-
land music-seller announces “ Messiahs, eight-
pence each.” This seems reasonably cheap. The
Bulletin recently quoted a rough Californian
criticism on Minnie Palmer, and now John Rogers
writes to state : “M. P. will live iust the same,
and you know there is nothing gained by selecting
the only unkind thing of a popular person to pub-
lish." Just so. And what will it pro St John
if he gains the Koh-i-noor and can’t writ 3 a
decent fist ? Miss Lillie Ruzky, the favourite cir-
cus-rider of England, nursed her beloved gray
horse through its last illness, and when it died she
sent a bullet through her heart, and went to
join her departed friend in a land where
there are no cirouse*. Mrs. Campbell Praed’s
drama of “Ariane" has been lavishly d din
London. Washington Irving Bishop, thought
reader, will visib Australia next autumn under
the management of Mr. Leavitt. Mr. Bishop’s
points are that he can tell what you are thinking
aboub and how your health is and the slate of
your bank-account, merely by standing near you
and thinking hard. When he comes out we
intend to put him on to Haynes and ascertain what
that young man is up to.
A petrified hen has been discovered by a
couple of miners in Victoria—we did not hear at
which hash-house.
A New South Wales Council clerk named
Honour has been arrested on a charge of embezzle-
ment. Pooh I lb is alleged that honour doesn t
consist in paying twenty shillings in the pound.
An Australian Croesus.
Writes a Melbourne correspondent
There were two incidents marking Tues-
day, Feb. 7, as an eventful day. At 5 a.m. the
richest of Australians left his golden hoards to
mount the golden stairs and at 11 a m. tne wires
brought the news that put the Mount Morgan
jumpers out of their misery.
* * *
The worshippers o! the Golden Oalf have
lost their idol. The death of Henry Miller will
dissipate his many mill o: s, and one man can be
no longer looked on as bpin-j;, in his own pe son,
fifty times as wealthy as any other man. Tnere
may have been a doubt as to whether this distinc-
tion cjuld rot be also claimed by James Tyson, or
whether ths honour —if it is an honour —should
not be divided between hem But Miller was
known as “Mrney Miller” even at a time
when Tyson was picking wool off the bushes and
fences, as boys pick up cigar-ends from the gutter.
<* <*
The American phrase of “ a remarkable
man’' applied well to tVs dsad Ciceros. He
never took a holiday, and wa3 careful that his
sons should imitate him in that way. To stick to
the office-stool for 55 years was h’s recipe for
getting rich, as it was Sir Joseph Porter's for
getting the management of the “ Queen's Navee.”
He early learnt thai “money breeds money.”
While the squatters thrive by the breeding of
cattle and sheep, Money Miller did similarly by
adding pound to pound, hundred to hundred,
thousand to thousand, and million to million.
The progeny of the pounds appeared in the shape
of interest which could be similarly set to breed-
ing as soon as born, and became as prolific as its
parents.
* * *
The Melbourne papers were singularly
skimpy in information as to this man’s wealth
and the way of its investment. Mention was
only made of the Exchange, the Wes'ern market,
and a block of tbrse houses in Collins street,
which were bub “ a circumstance,” a mere patch
on the clothing of wealth that covered Miller.
Scarcely a street in Melbourne cr any of its
suburbs but held property of his —acquired either
as buyer or mortgagee. Large estates lay outside
of Melbourne, and large squatting stations farther
afield. Young Morrison, who canoed down the
Murray, tells of his taking two days to pats the
boundaries of one of Miller’s stations.
* * *
Then he had horses and cattle, owned half
a bank and half of an Insurance Company, had
shares in the best naying mines and investments.
GafFnsy’s Creek No. 1 mine fell into his bands,
or nearly all of it did, as mortgagee, and brought
in something heavy every month. He found
money for all large contractors, and was their
guarantor—drawing the government moneys
coming to them. He was surety for all large in-
testate estates. He was the great mortgagee of
his colony to whom all who wante 1 money went
for loam. They paid him commission as well as
interest—for such were his terms. His rent-roll
wa3 the largest in Australia. His revenue from
mortgages larger still, and yeb larger his in-
come from discounts and daily dealings with
money which came into his hands but never went
through them—most of it sticking to bis fingers.
* - *
It was curious to notice how different ths
fate of the two bro hers Henry and Mars. The
latter, a worthy man enongh, seemed never able
to keep any money—ib fled from him as water
from a duck's back, while all money seem'd to
flow to his financial brother and to stagnate with
him. He had, this Money Miller, an abnormally
developed financial ability—a gift of nature
against which he could not struggle. He cams
into the world to amass money as a bull dog does
to fight. He never paid for an office or kept a
clerk. No one, consequently, knew his business
or his intentions or “little games.” He pat up
daily in the hoard-room of the Insurance Com-
pany of which he was chairman and kept his
memorandum-book in his pocket and his accounts
in his head. He did that without labour which
those nob so naturally endowed would have failed
to do with afi assistance. He was cafied a mil-
lionaire in 1853, and is believed to have doubled
his wealth every five years from that time. What
he died worth will likely never be known, as the
estates he possessed were easily transferable and
most probably re, in the main, disposed of
otherwise than by will.
# * *
He had one fancy, aparb from the main
one of money-making which absorbed his life.
This was for Scott’s novels, which he is believed
to have read through once a year, and that for a
score of years in succession. And now this Vio-
torian Rothschild and Melbourne Vanderbilt has
gone under —quite in the way that a poor man
would. He will draw no more cheques in which
halfpence figured with all exseness. His moun-
tain of money will be distributed, and there will
be none to really mourn for Money Miller the
Millionaire.
* * *
His influence was quits catching—it per-
meated through a foot-thick wall to where sat
John L’’nay, a clerk in the insurance office, wh i
died some five years back, leaving £lO,OOO to
Melbourne chari ies. Nothing but being daily so
near to such a money-maker as Miller enabled
Linay to do this wonder of saving out of his
weekly salary He, tco, learnt the way of setting
money a breeding and of nursing the progeny.
The saving father—the wealthy miser, has often,
too often, spendthrift sons, but such is nob be-
lieved to be the case with the family of this de-
ceased Croesus. Whether there is a younger
Vanderbilt among the five sons has yet to be seen,
but if so, then the name of Miller may keep alive
the money-meaning which for 40 years has at-
tached to it in Victoria.
Another Melbourne correspondent writes
“ Money” Miller, a man whose rare genius for
getting rich was never prostituted, has quietly de-
parted this life and been duly buried. The daily
Press, usually so ready to heap grovel upon the
grave of an “old identity,” and to sing the
praises of real and personal estate, has done less
than justice to the memory of this richest of Vic-
torian pioneers. In his various public capacities
Henry Miller had made no attempts to catch the
vulgar oye and pose as a representative colonist,
yeb the while he was doing more useful work than
any sixC.M.Gs. The present generation didn't
know (until it was grudgingly mentioned in
obituary notices) that the unpopular old financier
drafted the Constitution for Victoria, brought
forward the first Public Education Bill, and was
one of the promoters of the ballot in Parlia-
mentary elections. Melbourne Mint owes Its
existence to Henry Miller ; the Bank of Victoria
has had no other Chairman as yet; he was the
originator of insurance-companies and building
societies in the colony. If “ Money ” Miller
earned his sobriquet by the success of these en-
terprises, let it also be remembered that he
brought grist to other mills, and without making
any living soul a penny the poorer. Before the
days of newspaper celebrity and banquet fame—
when there was no bidding for knighthood with
ostentatious charity, and no particular sassiety
which required to be wined, dined, and danced
Henry Miller was better known and better spoken
of. For the last 20 years he has gradually piled
up a colossal repu aticn for meanness among
people who knew very little about him, without
losing the esteem of aa employe or the love of hia
family. There are those who can testify that the
shrewd old gentleman never refused to assist
a deserving case and never wanted his assist-
ance published to the world. When thab
florid philanthropist, Mr. Francis Ormond,
offered to give £5OOO to the Melbourne Cathedra
Fund on condition that other gentlemen raised
£5OOO among them, Bishop Moorhouse had n
occasion to tout further than Mr. Miller's privat
residence. He was asked for a portion, but wrot
his cheque for the whole £5OOO. A mere baga
telle to a man of his wealth, but more than He
Gracious ever subscribed towards a national
work. For the rest, “Money” Miller was
liberal purchaser of pictures and books, who
always dropped his note in the plate, but saw n
sin in supporting a stud of thoroughbreds for th
amusement of his sons. He was too well-bred
man to care for entertaining a sassiety that drops
its h’s about, or for toadying to the Governor anc.
titled globe-trotters. And no millionaire wa
ever more sincerely mourned by his heirs anc
assignees.
Baron Carington will be delighted to hear
that when, at the declaration of the Waverley
municipal poll, the other evening, three cheer j
for the Queen were called for, the groans pre
dominated.
George Leitch, of theatrical celebrity, tell
a melancholy story of how he met with an ancien
relic at Levuka (F ji), aad how the relic took him
in. He was negotiating for the loan of a horse
and the courteous innkeeper produced a ram
shackle an imal which had strayed by accident in
to the wide realm of zoology, and informed him
that he would fiad the beast friendly and reliable
So he did. It tacked firßt for the sea and then
made for a ditch and it had convulsions every few
yards, and every now and then it fell into a con
templative mood oat of which it scram Pled with
considerable difficulty. It didn't give the eminent
actor the slightest show to view ihe scenery, anc,
a’ter it had fallen into a river and been too much
astonished to get out without assistance, George
dragged it back to its owner who inquired if he
hadn’t enjoyed himself. He had quite for-
gotten, hs added cheerfally, to mention that
the horse was quite blind of both eye 3, but he
would probably find the moke perform better
in a buggy. George said he would try him in
tho buggy and so an aged vehicle was hauled out
—a rust-coloured trap with faded blue cushions
from which tho i tufling piojected, and with rat-
holes at every corner and a general appearance of
having been welted with clubs by the infuriated
populace, and Leitoh and his host set out on a
breath’ess tear round the coast, “’Xain'fc every
gentleman can beast of having a ride in this
wehicle,” gasped tie landlord as ha was bumped
up in the air. ‘lt ain't quits nsw,y ouknow— Woa,
ye biute! —its the kerridge the Sydney big bugs
gave to Thackambaw—huddtip, will ye ! There
was measles in ithere a sudden movement of
the blind ho.ee deposited the landlord in the
bottom of the trap;—“killed 24,000 Fijians, the
infection did,” he added as the horse threw him
up on to tha seat again. “ Wnoa I They had to
hide the carriage a*ay”—ha went on after the
turnout had fallen into the river and been Ashed
out again “but some of ihe people gut to it once
and welted it offal 'I hay hid ic for 10 years alto-
gether. I bought; the tning at an auction for 30 nob
—g adyou came, I’m but here the stead shook
George up in the atmosphere again and he took
soma time in coming down.
The vacant Hew South Wales judgeship
has been filled, and Water Jug Foster has risen to
the dignity of tha Bench. Some twelve months
ago Mr. Foster resigned the Attorney-Generalship
on the ground that he had been cozened out of
this same elevated billet, and that he could no
longer have confidence in Parkes; and Parkes re-
plied that he had also lost confidence in Foster,
and each pretty well raid he didn’t want to know
the other much any more. But scon another vacant
judgeship began to loom on the horizon,
and then Foster’s confidence in Parkes —
which, as defined in his memorable letter,
seems to have meant his confidence that Parkes
would give him a permanent job—began to revive,
and Parkes’s confidence in Foster—which, to
judge from his actions, meant hia confidence that
he could bounce Foster out of the job if it suited
him —also underwent a recovery. Foster, in
former days, lent to the Government that element
of godliness with which Parkes always finds it ex-
pedient to be associated, and now Sir Henry has
squared up the account for this borrowed piety,
and his old supporter has his reward. There is
no reason to believe that the appointment will,
from a public standpoint, be a success N.S, W.
has reason to be satisfied with such big-
brained men as Darley and Owen, but the
narrow-minded Foster is not of them. He is
a dull mediocrity, after the fashion of Innes and
Windeyer—a pair who would shed far more lustre
on the billet of clerk of petty sessions or deputy-
sheriff than they are ever likely to do on their
present high offices. Mr. Foster has no right to
sit on the Supreme Court Bench under any cir-
cumstances whatsoever; his appointment only
serves to complete a trinity of pettifoggers. His
rise is a purely political job, though Parkes has
lqpg boasted that he never appointed a Supreme
Court judge from political motives. When
Foster was disappointed on a previous occa-
sion, he raised a dust which seriously
damaged the Ministry, and a second disappoint-
ment would almost to a certainty have driven him
into active hostility. The result of the election
which must ensue at Newtown, will show whether
this sacrifice of the digaiby of the Bench will serve
any good purpose for Parkes or not. At present
tho Chances are that a Protectionist will be re-
tnrned, and, if so, it would have besn better for
Henry of Brummagem if h 3 had again trusted to
the long-suffering nature of the follower who was
“ slipped up " and who might, by ajbare possi-
bility, have endured being “ slipped up (' again.


Pepper
And
Salt
Bob Wilson, the King of the SheaTers,
has fallen a victim to Queensland rum. He was
sleeping it off on the railway-line, at Aramae,
when an engine passed quietly over his neck and
Robert found rest: —
The man who edits the overblown turni]
and the portly mangel-wurzel at Bega (N.S.W,
proceeds to wrestle with a great internationa
question :
Yet another feather in Bega’s cap. Mr. W. R. Emley, th
cordial-manufacturer of whom we are all justly proud, re
eeived a letter from the Premier last week asking to b
supplied by him with cordials, and stating that the ginger
beer manufactured by him is the best he (Sir Henry Parkes
ever tasted. It is to be regretted that Mr. Emley could no
see his way clear to comply with the request, but had to de
cline the patronage that many would reasonably feel prou
of.
Bega seems to be a place which is ready to wallow
In excitement on a very small pretext. It i
“jastly proud” of the fellow who makes teatota
wash for the locality, and is out on a tearing
burst because Parkes, after having raked the
world in search of good ginger-beer, ordered two
dozen from this ornament of the district and
credit to society generally. Also, its frenzy cul
minates over the fact that the gentleman who
gives slops to the local public “couldn’t eee bis
way c’ear to comply with tha request,” and the
apex of its ferocity is reached when it realises
that Parkes mnst continue to parch. Why Parkes
can’t liquor up in this particular icstance is no
adequately explained—probably the order was re
fused owii g to sectarian prejudice, or denomina
tionalism, or a Popish conspiracy at Ktama, or
something. Times are so bad now in N.S.W. that
it is difficult to imagine any cause, short of re
ligious bigotry, that could make a man ref ase an
order accompanied by a cheque marked “good.’
OE oonrss, nothing is said aboub the cheque, but
we take it for granted that it was there. The
politicians of Australia are all constructed that
way.
Henry Yarley, the well-known butcher-
evangelist, was expec ed back in the N.Z. vine-
yard by last steamer, but he didn’t come. He
took his passage right enough, but just b9fore the
vessel sailed 100 tons of gunpowder were put on
board, and then the evangelist seized his other
shirt and his little parcel of tracts and sloped at
aa acute angle over the bulwarks. When
safely out of range of tha sinful explosive, which
hoist 3 the preacher and the hangman with equal
impartiality if they happen to sit on it just as it
lets fly, be entered the following protest in
writing :
I can quite believe that gunpowder can be carried safely,
but personally I should not choose a h-mse close to a powder-
m aeazine A friend of mine said he thought I was ready for
Heaven I trust so. 1 m not prepared to go up that way.
I have no fears of dangets that arise providentially, such as
st-onn or otherwise, but I havo no faith in man's explosives.
I have no objection to tin chariot of fire, but I want it
clearly identified as the God of Israel s.
Tnis is good in theory, no doubt, bub many a man
has spent long years waiting for the chariot of
fire, and has ended by being run over by a beer-
dray after all.
* * *
If it isn’t too late, wa would suggest that
an alteration should be made in the Queen’s Cen-
tennial “statter” recently fixed up In King-street,
Sydney, and that the lady should he fastened on
a swivel. In her present position the Pre-em'nenb
in Grief has to ke?p her eye all the time on that
melancholy pile, the Emigration Barracks—one of
Sydney’s poor houses—whereas if she were ar-
ranged so that she could whiz round, she would
get a glimpse of Albeit the Good at one moment
and of the Beautiful Harbour the next, and would
be able to see what was going on in the bar at
the Oxford Hotel and elsewhere. A Queen is not
supposed to be tied down like a blessed vegetable,
and the statue should be fixed so that it can have
a fly-round when it wants it. Under existing
circumstances, the-e might be as many as tea
dog-fights going on behind her, and she wouldn’t
he able to get a glimpse of one of them. What a
bronze Agger mostly wants is variety—not abso-
lute excitement or riot, but a little change now
and then, and, above all, it doesn’t want to have to
gaze all the time on a miserable Emigration Bar-
raok or a Soup Kitchen or a lot of lawyers.
Such a monotonous life undermines a broiz9
image faster than anything we know.
• * *
Up at Darlinghurat) (Sydney) there is an
establishment! wish a big sign fixed up outside
from which the words “ Home of Hope” glare ob-
trusively at the pafser-by, anitothls institution
the Prison gate Brigade brings its captives to be
rubbed down and fed, and started in the road
they ought to go. As we drifted by this institu-
tion the other morning, we observed a seedy-look-
lng stranger, evidently a released prisoner, calmly
shoring hie back against the doorpost and picking
his teeth in a meditative fashion. Evidently he
was a rescued sinner, and, having been taken in
and supplied with breakfast, he had been fixed up
outside with a toothpick as a visible sign that
there were victuals within. The idea Is not a bad
one, and yet, to speak seriously, it might ba as
well if the s ! gnbo»rd atthe “ Home of Hope” were
not quite so obtrusive. It gives away the inmates
too much, and it would be better if it were fixed
in some other part of the oity, so that the released
pickpocket might see It and learn the address of
the establishment, and then go there without
drawing public attention to bis movements. A
brass plate nailed outside Parliament House
would supply all the information needed and
at the same time would offend nobody's sensi-
bilities. There is no one inside the House who
was ever in gaol or who is ever likely to go there
or who deserves to go there, so the members could
afford to have a signboard attached to their pre-
mises which would seem like a studied insult
if it were affixed to the Young Men’s Christian
Association or even to the Law Courts, We com-
mend this idea to the chie’s of the Halleluj ah band
without prejudice or malice aforethought, and
trust they will accept it in the spirit of holy calm
with which it is offered. If they will come
around we will give then a small monetary sub-
scription to seed the work along, ard meanwhile
we pray that the shadow of the Gospel Army may
never grow less.
One of the things calculated to strike a stranger
to New Zealand very forcibly is the public manner
in which gangs of prisoners are marched to work.
The retirement of a prison-van, the effeminate
seclusion of the Black Maria, is studiously
shunned, and the culprits are rounded off to their
HAD HIM THERE.
CALICO JIMMY (to “ Bulletin ” representative): “DTD YOU SEE PARKES'S SPEECH THE
OTHER DAY, WHERE HE SAYS HE NEVER READS THE BULLETIN?”
B R.: “ NO—WE NEVER READ PARKES’S SPEECHES.”
punishment tasks in the garish light of day and
beneath the commenting gaze of their fellow-
townsmen. At Port LyttVoi we saw the chain-
gang going to their worn a the morning. There
were two detachments, dressed in somewhat dif-
ferent uniforms These were the long and the
short-sentenced prisoners At the head of one
group tramped abroad-sho u dered, stril ing looking
man, withayellowbearda .da scar over Ins eye We
should know that man again amongst a thousand.
He is photographed in our mind, branded as a
felon. What chance is there for re'ormation ?
What opportunity henceforth for honestly earn-
ing even daily bread ? 1 hat man may be punished
innocently and may perhaps be proved to be inno-
cent ; but what would that avail him witli those
who have seen him marching thus to work pub-
licly branded as a felon, to those who may never
hoar of his innocence, but to whom one day he
may present himself in some character of business
or trust ? All punishments for a term of years—
either short or long—are based upon the principle
of reclamation. They are not supposed to make
the culprit worse, but better than before Heir
infliction, otherwise it would bo cruel to society
to turn gaol-manufactured criminals loose upon
it. Yet here wo have the illogical instance of a
punishment ffffended to reclaim which in its
working precludes tfce posability of reclamation.
There are so no functions which society, like the
individual, should perform in retirement.
“ How is history written ?” is often asked. It is
written in a diversity of ways. This was how
Kinglakb’s celebrated “ History of the Crimea,"
now only just completed, and of which reviews
have just appeared in the Australian da lies, was
written. In the forties, when Louis Napoleon
was a mysterious and impecunious exile in Lon-
don, he and Kinglake belonged to the same
London club. It happened that Kinglake was
spending some of the profits of his last literary
venture on the maintenance, in St. Johns Wood
(where, unlike Cologne, the tombs of the Thousand
Virgins have not yet become an attraction), of a
fair, hut frail one, to whom he was apparently rather
attached. Her fairness might have been doubted,
hut certainly not her frailty, when she presently
transferred her affections and herself to the
romantic future Emperor. Kinglake swore
vengeance, and a chance gave him the op-
portunity of venting it. Bis adventurous
spirit carried hi n out to the Crimea, in a literary
capacity, and there the fact of Lord Raglan s
great admiration of his first well-known work,
“Eothen,” procured him the Commander-in-
Chief s personal acquaintance, and, indeed, friend-
ship. When Kinglake returned home, and de-
liberately set himself to write his “ History of the
Crimea,” he prefaced it with that bitter expose of
Louis Napoleon and Ms associates of the bloody
coup d etat of 1852 which was bo wholly out of
place, however brilliant or however true, that the
cause of it utterly mystified the public then and
has since. The inevitable query of the Turkish
Emir, however, whose comment in every trouble
or disturbance was, “Where is the womanl'
would have laid bare this mystery also, and
shown us one of the ways in which history is
written.
One day last month a man, who was formerly an
adherent of Parkes in the Assembly, and who
was some time ago elevated by Parkes to a high
position in the New South Wales Civil Service,
was charged at a Sydney Police Court with an
act of disgraceful larribinism in a public-house.
He did not appear, however, and his case was
carefully suppressed by all the Sydney dailies,
excepting only the saintly and unctuous Herald,
and that journal saved his reputation by telling
the worst of all lies—that which is half the truth
—and dropping one of the initials attached to his
exceedingly common name, so that the identity of
this uproarious lout remained unsuspected. When
one of Parkes’ supporters is concerned the Sydney
Freetrade Press is always dumb, though when
one of his opponents gets into trouble (as on a
recent occasion) the affair appears at length w ith
six head lines and an intimation that the country
is going to the dogs and the swine. Even the
Herald, whose reputation for accuracy used to
be its one redeeming feature, would now seem to
garble its reports to hide the disgrace of one of
Sir Henry’s proteges, and if the great Hi -Ham
himself appeared—which, thank Heaven, is an
impo siblo supposition- among the drunks in the
Police Court dock, it would simply state that
“John Barkks was fined ss. and costs.” Long
years spent in compounding lying Freetrade
statistic! have undermined the character of the
Sydney Press, and even the Police Court drudge
has to follow in the well-worn brack of A nanias
when the interests of the Foreign-trade-protection
party aro mperilled.
Michael Rash races horses as well as
boats. His boat-racing colours are “buff." His
horse-racing, cardinal green sash, and black cap.
The first in honour of the head of his church, the
second for love of the ould sod, and the third-
well, we must ask Judge Windeyer.
A Chinamen named Hang Man is cultivat-
ing greens at R'chmond (Vio ). It is plain he ii
quite acclimatisf d.
Now is the time in pawticglaw
When the festive young rider bfcyou’.vw
Strikes the little stone roculah,
In a way that’s not jooulah,
And alights on his north-east anvioulaw.
The King cf the Sheared has left this stage,
No more will he shear sheep ;
He laid him down on the narrow gauge
And closed his eyes in sleep ;
An engine came with a puff and a roar
(Swift as the wind it sped);
And the King of the Shearers was “ gone before,”
For it cut off his blooming head.
The King of the Shearers he dwells above
(Above means Heaven, you see),
There’s many a job’in the Lind of Live
For boys as smart as he.
And though he's left this vale of tears
Never a friend need weep,
For merry’s the click of the Shearer's shears
As he tackles the angel sheep.
The King of the Shearers, we now repeat,
Is working in the fold;
And he hears the dear familiar bleat
Within those Gates of Gold ;
The fleece of the sheep is fine and long
And cleansed with Jordan Dip—
But the poor goats’ b2ards, so matted and strong,
The D 1, no doubt, will clip,
As the Grass.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life is but short, quoth the preaoher; to-day
though we flourish
Eren aB the grass, on the morrow like grass we
must die.
Answers the sage : Seize the joys your brief hours
can nourish,
Hold them, enjoy them, ba glad in them ere
they shall fly.
Truthful, 0 preacher, and wiser, O sage, is your
saying;
Wise he who lives while the joys of his life yet
abound;
Not so can I, for the world is a shamble of slaying ;
Round me they fall, as tha grass that is mown
on the ground.
Not as the grass that doth fade, to the utmost
empowered
All the advantage of living to own while it can,
But as the blades that are mown, or of locusts
devoured,
Such is the ending of joy and of living to Man.
Wise he who lives ere the scythe or the swarm
can assail him,
Tainting not joy with forebodings that mutter
of harm;
Yet, if he sees, ’twere both kindness and wisdom
would fail him
Should he not waken the harrowing cry of
alarm.
What is the need of this ruthless, this pitiless
reaping?
Why should we idly laugh, letting the loousts
abound ?
Joys should be ours In the days Natuie meant for
our keeping—
Why should we suffer them shorn, as the grass
on the ground ?
Wherefore the bard cries : Leave the weak present
pleasures!
Labour and conquer the ills, that they come not
to pass!
Then shall our longer days bring happier treasures
Freely to all men, as life that is brought to the
grass.
J. A. ANDREWS.
One Hundred Years of Age.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Long time had hardy mariners, strong both of
heart and hand
Their ships' prows lit with hope to find this
shadowy Southern land ;
A land that dreamers dreamt about and sages
pondered o’er,
Still there came no word to Northern climes of the
vast and distant t here.
What joy, then, thrilled the heart of Cook when his
good ship dropped her wirgs
To hear the music that the strand to the deep ssa
ever Eings;
With eager haste by cheery men her sails were
quickly furled,
And the captain s’ood the sponsor proud of
another, greater world.
And when they bounded on the shore, those trußty
pioneers,
What Bights and sounds of welcome weird met
startled eyes and ea’-s I
The dingo woke strange echoes with his long and
dismal howl;
And frighted flew in myriads the timid water-
fowl,
The kangaroo and emu o’er the grassy Blope soon
sped,
AEd the painted monaroh of the soil cowered with
a new-bcm dread,
As like a star he saw the vessel rise from out the
sea,
An avcvnt courier to tell a change of monarchy;
To all the world a change for weal, to him a
change for woe,
Yet they knew not what the future veiled a hun-
dred years ago.
But what see we who stand upon the summit of
those years?
A prospect bright, though tie rearward look is
not undimmed by tears:
Strong Yeung Australia stands to day with a
gleaming in her eye
That tells to those of power to see she was not
born to die,
Although upon her virgin skirts the blood of con-
victs hurg,
And (baser shame) grim convict laws her heaving
bosom wrung.
Aye l though she yet with heavy heart may lend
a fettered hand
To gild decaying forms of wrong, wrought in her
mother land,
Forewarned by all the old-world ills with clearer
ej e to see
What brotherhood and justice mean, and love and
purity,
The noble3t of the youngest, and the fairest of the
fair,
In her panoply of righteousness, one day she'll do
and dare
More than the hoary nations did, for lack of heart
or will,
Whose wealth had silenced poverty with the man-
date, “ Peace, be si ill!”
If, crowning all her mightiness which surely is
to be,
She’ll ever wear the diadem of truth and liberty.
Say ye, her loyal sons who love to oall her land
your home,
How great Australia yet shall be a hundred years
to come.
Melbonrne.
HENRY O'DONNELL.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Lord Carington is not a Sydney Smith.
The head of the Small family, of Ryde,
N S.W., is aged 92, and has 280 living descendants.
Bishop Webber, of Brisbane, goes to
writ? land He will return to Queensland for the
Test of the holidays.
A son of Charles Dickeni Is now a full-
,liwn alderman for that city of brick-dust and
whisky Wfioannia.
At a Melbourne police-court last week
Henry George was pulled for wilfully damaging
property. Deeds, not words.
« V. Winter, cf the Melbourne Herald
1 Sportsman, is nephew of a we'.l-known
EogUefc flatioist of the same name.
Dr Madden, the Melbourne barrister,
ftilcaes that crois examiner Purves “says things
in Court that he dare not say outside."
Judge Faucett, of N.S.W., has redgned
on account of old His record is one cf
ability, humanity and stainless Impartiality.
‘“•Brigham Young’s eldest son is rich, but he
i£a only three wives. This is always the way ;
the best business men never succeed in love.
Judge Forbes, of Sydney, is hard of hear-
. Another judge only sees one aide of a case.
Looks as if Sydney justice is both blind and
deaf.
It is generally understood that the two
millions or so left by Mr. Money Mille: will be
fairly distributed amoDg his widow and eight
Burviving children.
Labouchere graciously remarks that the
rnval family ef England treat the ex-Kmpress
Eua&nle kindly, only because they hope to be re-
membered largely in her will.
The step mi of “ Money” Miller, of
Melbourne, who has just died, aged 78, is siiil
alive in Tasmania. “ Money” was lef oan orphan
at the tender age of 56, when his father died, aged
four score and one.
Ex-Pramier Service
says: “I will at once
admit that London is the
second city in the world
and when I was asked
what oily was the first I
replied Melbourne. It
was no blow. It was
merely discounting the
future."
Francis Adams, with
a huge pith helmet, a
white umbrella, and a
new pair of spectacles, is
once more to be Been per-
ambulating Queen-street.
He fs known among a
select coterie of the Bris-
bane larrikins as “ Robin-
son Crusoe."
The English papers
repertingthe proceedings
In the divorce case Tre-
vanion v. Trevanion, an-
nounce the astounding
fact that the lady Ib
daughter of Sir Daniel
Cooper, “the Resident
of the House of Repre-
sentatives at Sydney."
When Chie f Justice
Hlglnbotham, the Presi-
dent, and G. T. A. Lava-
ter, the eeoretary, of the
Melbourne Centennial
Exhibition, are alone and
idle, Lavater plays “ Rule
Britannia” on the cornet,
just for Hig., to “try if
he oan stand it.”
Among the remedies
suggested to oure the
Crown Prince of Ger-
many was one by an old
woman, who sent him
seven carrots with direc-
tions as to applications.
Fritz sent her a letter of
thanks. The kind old
soul was Scotch, of court e.
W. O. Hodgkineor,
Queensland Minister of
Mines, is a poet. He
dashes off odes on the
margin of official corres-
pondence, and sonnets on
the baoks of bine en-
velopes wherein he rhymes “ gaols” and
“ vales,” “ love” and “ above,”and is supremely
happy.
Editor Haddon, of Melbourne Argus,
celebrated his forty-ninth b’rthday last week.
Arthur Gamer, of the Triumvirate, had a festivity
over his thirty-seventh anniversary, the same
day. On New Year’s Day the portly editor cele-
brated the majority of his editorship of the Vic-
torian Freetrader.
Supreme Court Judge Owen, of Sydney,
has a German tipstaff who is quite in love with
his master. “Do yon know,” he delightfully said
to a lawyer, one day, “ vhy Judge Owen is de best
man in de whole vorld to vork for ? I vill tell yon.
It vos zhoust because Judge Owen he Is von per-
fect Irish shentleman.”
When the present Pope was nuncio at
Brussels he attended a dinner-party where a
nobleman asked him to admire a lovely Venus on
the lid of a snuff-box—expecting to amuse the
company at the expense of the nuncio. “ Charm-
ing 1 ” said Monsignor Pecci, quietly returning the
box, “ is it a portrait of madame la marquise ? ”
A dead-beat waited upon Bishop Byrne
(R.C.) at Bathurst, recently, and, with sighs and
tears, informed that potentate that be was tired
of the Protestant religion and wished to join the
Catholic Church, winding up with a request for
half a-orown to get a breakfast. The Bishop gave
him the coin, desiring him to get the needed
meal, but not to trouble about joining the Church.
The champion N.Z. strong man is an Irish
policeman, of Auckland—one Doyle, or something
—who can raise 140 lbs. over his head with one
hand, and so on. Said a man to him the other
day ; ' ‘ How easily you must be able to run in the
drunks? ” “ Yes,” replied Mr. Doyle, “It is easy
for a man like me to run in a drunk All I have
to do is to talk to him very soft and hold him very
hard."
The other day Justice Williams, of Vic-
toria, was hearing a oase in which the Colonial
Bank was a party. Managpr Greenlaw was put
in the box, and, as usual, didn’t improve the
bank's ca3e. When Williams came to charge the
jury he said: —“Gentlemen, when I was at the
B',r and gob briefs for the bank, I used to shake
in my shoes when Mr. Greenlaw got into the
box !”
When J. F. Hogan, of the Melbcr rne
Argus, author of “ The Irish in Australia,” was
lately in Birmingham interviewing Bishop Ulla-
thorne (half a century ago Vicar-General of New
Holland) he had an audience of Cardinal Newman
at the Edgbaston Oratory. Curious’y enough,
Hogan didn't a r k John Henry to explain the laßt
lines of “Lead Kindly Light.” Every well-in-
formed admirer of Newman does.
Sayß Henry Stuart Russell in his new hook
“ The Genesis of Queensland” : -“I have paced
again that Paradise, pathless, yet around that pen
cf punishment; that ponsl path within which
pity is but a poor phantom of rags, and pain soon
palsies the prison . pulses ” The alliteration in
that sentence is a masterpiece and makes it a
worthy rival of the famous Peter Piper, who
picked a peck cf pickled pepper.
The Melbourne Herald has been getting
at poor Mr. Nimmo about some Government
boilers, lying exposed cn the wharf at Mel-
bourne. In the first instance, Nimmo protested
that the boilers were about to be moved, th?n it
was announced that a rough shelter had been
ordered for them; finally Nimmo settled the
matter by discovering that .exposure to cold and
rain is just what boilers like. There sno arguing
against a teetotal Scotchman.
The other day when an fndignant rate-
payer, writing all over six sheets of foolscap
enquired for the eleventh time of a Sydney sub-
urban council why that ancient dead dog had
not been shifted from his front door, he addressed
his Wo: ship as “ Month Black, Esq.” The Council
Clerk remonstrated and said the chief magistrate's
name was Weeks-White. The ratepayer replied
that “he knew it was something about time and
some darned colour or other.”
Immediately a'ter the d ;ath of a cert&in
N.S.W. Supreme Court Judge, David Buchanan,
Judge Docker, and a number of other members of
the “ Devil’s Own," were journeying (on circuit)
THE REASON OF IT.
INQUIRING FREETRADE FRIEND (to newly-elected M.L.A. in buggy): “GLAD TO SEE YOU GOT IN! BUT,
I FORGOT. YOU’RE A PRO TECTIONIST, AIN’T YOU!”
MLA : “YES.”
FRIEND: “THEN WHAT THE DOOCE ARE YOU DRIVING AN IMPORTED AMERICAN BUGGY FOR?”
M.L. A: “WELL, AIN’T I SUPPORTIN' A PROTECTIONIST COUNTRY!"
between Coonamble and Coonanbarabran, when
the conversation turned on the lately-deceased
official. Said Dawvid: “He was very fond of
me, he was; he told me so him-elf." Quoth
Judge Docker, with his usual snuffle: “That
must have been when his brain was softening 1”
The following relic of the past, written by
the explorer Cunningham, was found many years
afterwards, and shows a strong feature in the
character of Australia’s pioneer :—“ In this cave
(situated about 70 miles from Bathurst) the under-
signed poor individual retreated in order to
examine in hrrmetlcal retirement the botanical
treasures discovered by him on the 23 rd April,
1817 ; journeying to the western coast.— Allan
Cunningham, H.B M.’s Botanist, 3 o’clook p.m.
Therm. Fahr. 60 deg."
Item from recently-published autobiography
of W. P. Frith, the English artist: “ Dr. Summer,
Bishop of Winchester, seemed though nearly
eighty years old, to ba so hale and hearty, that I
was tempted to ask if he had bean specially careful
about exeroisa or diet, and the bishop's reply was:
‘I have eaten of whatever good things were rub
before me, and I have drunk a bottle of port wine
every day since l was a boy. The only precaution
I have taken has been in the quality of the wine;
for, unless it was old and good, I would hava none
of it.’ ”
N.S. Wales has had five Chief Justices,
Forbes, Dowling, Stephen, Martin, and DarJey.
The third and fifth still live, while portraits of the
first four adorn the Supreme Court walls. That
of Sir James Martin is in the Banoo Court;
Forbes, Dowling, and Stephen shine in oil in the
nisi prius room. A coincidence in connection
with these three is that the son of one Is a
Supreme Court Judge, and the sons of the other
two occupy seats on the District Conrb Bench of
the colony. In faob, judgeships run in families in
N.S.W.
The clever and erudite Herbert Palmer,
of the Melbourne Herald, has a habit of taking
an interest in promising lads, and a few years
ago he picked up a youth named Maguire (a
junior on the Herald; who possessed the poetic
faculty, and trotted him out ai aa iafant pheno-
menon in the pages of his Imperial Review.
Palmer thought Maguire was going to be another
Kendall or Gordon, but the other day the miser-
able youngster joined “the foorce” and is now
engaged in the literary work of making oub
charge-sheets and compiling inventories under
distress-warrants.
One of the earliest advocates of the policy
of Protection in Victoria was the late Ambrose
Kybe, M.L.A. for Mast Melbourne. Ambrose
boasted on the hus ings that he commenced life
as a barrow-man, at which he earned about 83. a
week and his “tucker,” bub he always managed
bo pub by 43. a week for a rainy day. He died
wealbby. He was the originator of the expedi-
tion, commanded by Burke and Wills, wh'ch
crossed Australia in ’6l, having anonymously
given £lOOO to start the fund. He ib wa3 who
took Barry Sullivan by the hand, and helped to
make his Australian career a success.
Morel M‘Kenzie, the London throat-
speclalisb who has teen in attendance on the Ger-
man. Crown Prince, is one of the best-hated doc-
tors in the profession. He is not on speaking
terms with the set comprising Sir Andrew Clarke,
Sir William Gall, and Spencer Wells, of whom
he has often spoken with undisguised contempt.
He is a tall, lean, vigorous, mutton-chop-whiskered
Scotchman with the most deoided manners. As
an operator he is said to be unequalled, and his is
the only British name that is recognised by the
throat-specialists of Paris, Berlin, and, above all,
oC Vienna, the first school in the world for this
branch. He charges three guineas for the first,
and a guinea for every subsequent visit, and from
60 to 80 people gather in his consulting rooms each
morning and wait for hours with exemplary
patience.
Mr James Payn, the novelist (who writes
Loudon gossip for the Melbourne Argus) is the
edit o' of the Cornhill Magazine, and adjoining
his sanctum in Waterloo Place is the office of a
medical and surgical journal One day his door
was cautiously opened by a pale faced and long-
haired person, who, in answer to his interrogative
glanca, said slowly and dubiously: “I hava
brought you a little thing about Sarcoma and
Carcinoma.” “lam sorry to say, sir,” replied
Mr. Pajn, blandly, “that we have all the poetry
on hand that we can use at present." The visitor
did not withdraw, however. “Poetry!” he ex-
claimed—“this is not poetry! It is an essay for
the medical journal on two tumors—Sarcoma and
Carcinoma” “I beg your par doc,” the editor
said, unruffled by his mistake—“l thought they
were Italian lovers." The long-haired gentleman
was a medical professor, who had blundered into
the wrong offioe.
The death of A. G. Jone'», formerly
M.L.A. for the Murrumbidgee, and atone time
proprietor of the Wagga Wagga Advertiser,
was lately recorded Mr, Jones was an ordained
clergyman of the Anglican Church, and a most
eccentric individual. He gave up the Church to
engage in squatting pursuits, and was formerly
the owner of considerable station property. He
was an excellent judge of sheep, and a keen hand
at a bargain. At certain times he was considered
fair game for plucking by some of the “smart”
station-agents, bat could generally manage to
hold his own in any company. A couple of in-
stances will suffioe. Strolling down Collins-street,
Melbourne, one day, after having had an exceed-
ingly festive time, he was espied by an agent who
had a fine let of sheep to sell, suoh as Mr. Jones
had never had i hrongh his hands before, &c , &c.
An adjournment was made to the office, the
matter talked over, and half-an-hour given A. G.
for consideration. The number of sheep was
20,000, and the price 93. In half-an-hour A. G. J.
returned, closed the bargain, ani desired the
agent to hand over the sheep to Mr. So-and-so, as
he had meanwhile sold them at an advance
of eighteenpenoe a head. On another occasion he
purchased at auction, in Melbourne, station
property to the value of £50,000, and tendered his
cheque on the A, J.S. Bank for the amount to the
somewhat astounded auctioneer, who did not
happen to know his customer. On wiring to the
Joint Stook Bank to know if Jones’ cheque for
fifty thou, was good, the answer flashed back,
“Yes; quite good.” And now he has passed
away, and few so poor as do him reverence.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Abigail’s reputation has declined shixty
per shent.
GL H Reid will be the N.S.W. Freetrade
leader, after Parkes.
Both the Evening News and the Daily
Telegraph (Sydney) ate getting ready to “rat”
to Protection.
Water-Jag Foster contributes £25 towards
the Parkes Fund. This ia returning good for evil
with a vengeance.
The codlin moth has commenced its
ravages at Bathurst, N.S.W. A iust judgment
for codlin Cords, M.P.
Three-ball Abigail styles Treasurer Burns
“his respected colleague.” We wonder if pretty
Cooky returns the compliment.
Parkes’ Breadless Home Fuad amounts to
less than £9OOO, which sum could easily have
been raised in the time for a dog-fight.
Ex-Premier Service, of Victoria, says that
“pride is not in his nature.” That's why he
didn’t mind holding office at £2OOO a year with
Graham Berry.
The Sydney E. News says, “ The present
N.S.W. Government has lost a great portion of
the popularity it enjoyed when it came into
power, and is losing ground with the public every
day.”
There are now two Allens and two Abbotts
in the N.S.W. Assembly—one Abbott and one
A linn on either side. This being so, it would be
well to dispense with one Abbott and one Allen,
and save a lot of jaw.
The Molong Express editor says, in re
the N.S.W. Centennial rejoicings “It would
have been more righteous had the effigies of the
official pioneers been burnt and their ashe3 cursed
for ever as an enduring condemnation of merci-
less, godless, and brutal tyranny."
Sydney people had to go to a Melbourne
daily to get the truth about the unveiling of the
Queen’s statue. The fact was that not a solitary
cheer went up when Lady Caring ton undressed
the muscular representation of her fat Gracious.
Tens of thousands of witnesses can testify to this.
Sir Thomas M‘llwraith, in a letter to the
Brisbane Courier, shows how the E. E. Telegraph
Co. could profitably send cablegrams for half-a-
crown a word instead of 4s. 6d. He directly
charges the company with watering their stoak
and returning their gains at 6 instead of 18 or 20
per cent.
The Adelaide Seamen’s Union is both
better organised and better led than any other in
Australia. The men are thorough, and not half-
hearted tinkerers at the social problem, contami-
nated by the old, played-out, selfish, English
“ Trades'Union” splri h . This is the only good
thing, we reokon, that ever came out of holy
Adelaide.
Thus the “Vagabond” in re the late
demonstration of Labour in Sydney :—“ Perhaps
not even in Victoria has labour ever achieved
such a triumph over officialism. Strange to say, I
find a strong republican feeling amongst the
masses in Sydney, a feeling perhaps of re-action
against the Crown oligarchy which so long ruled
this colony."
A Protectionist Ministry has been formed
in Sweden, A few months ago Attorney-General
Wise, of N.S.W., in a Freetrade speeoh, which
lasted until his wind gave out, stated that Sweden
was one of the few enlightened countries which
were going in for Freetrade, and now the Scandi-
navians, with malice aforethought and Bheer dog
meanness, have gone baok on him.
Newspaper men in Germany have to be
very careful about punctuation. The Hofer
Tageblatt, a short time ago, said a deooration
had been conferred upon Count von Holstein. By
an oversight, an exclamation-point, instead of a
period, appeared at the end of the sentence, and
for this the authorities seized the whole issue and
instituted a suit against the editor for atrocious
libel.
Henry Harrie Cooke, by the grace of the
Orange Lodge member of Parliament for Forbes
(N.S.W ), stated in his place in the ’Oase that the
State should part with no land, “ but the time
had not yet come for that policy !” Of course not.
Henry Harrie will sit idly at the baok of Premier
Parkes and vote like the other dumb-driven cattle
until the land is all gone ; then he’ll wake up to
the stern reality and in all probability find his
occupation gone and his seat, too.
Eggs is riz. Melbourne Age perorates
thus :
There is a Socialism in the air which is formless, for it has
not yet determined for itself exactly what its needs are. but
which animates millions of men as a conviction or wish, a
vague feeling that extremes of poverty can be prevented,
that labour can be assured of constant employment, and
that many advantages which rich men monopolise-—the com-
mand of leisure, the opportunity of study, and the enjoy-
ment of art—may be communicated without stint to the
poor.
P.S.—Mr. Joseph Syme is still absent on his
honeymoon trip, which, by the way, is to extend
over two solid years. Yum Yum !
Sir Robert Wisdom has half-paralysed
theN.S.W. Freetraders by announcing his con >
version to Protection, and this after living a year
or two in England! The Protectionists can do
without Wise so long as they have Wisdom. Ib
was announoed the other day with a flourish of
trumpets by the N.S.W. Freetrade Pres 3 that
Wisdom was going to succeed Wise as Attorney-
General in the Parkes Ministry. The offer was
made. The result is the above announcement.
John Bright said In a speech at Dublin
October 30, 1886, that —
When the ancient Hebrew prophet prayed in his captivity
he prayed with his window opened towards Jerusalem. You
know that the follow rs of Mahoiqmed when they pray turn
their faces towards Mecca. When the Irish peasant asks for
food, and freedom, and blessing, his eye follows the setting
sun : the aspirations of his heart reach beyond the wide
Atlantic, and in spirit he grasin hands with the great Re-
public of the West.
And now- when that same Irish peasant asks for
food, freedom, and common justice, that same
John Bright calls him a rebel, an associate of
American dynamiters, and a murderer.


s>^‘’
T.k,„ W V *7
\L
1 'yi-Ct.
‘It'S n. ifor
A Valentine's Day Medley.


S>
StjCirk - i>arb rca-c/y
for o.cf'/o/p . 7ij& 6q>-6 /J ryo *ct6fe Office. I
Tvi/e/" ct f J/ ciyU ' s fay/3or-<* rt 7y fecuriicC
/o it- S/f/AritpQ <* h ft 6y />« SS /p <f <U. Syctft?
7«>«s ft>e '> 6a> -4
fa\ C*-ipc/ -
0 /fat t“<-tn o/v.M
ft
/ / i- *
_ rJU'Y’I/
If,e / *
OIV P/7/Zry _ T /osA <x A'/oAfies- et Z c^y
<X (Oci/~CAZO Z At"?
■jyce / Z CxJ op r/eA L
C oci fcZ fici A&-
(jof /// /fere Z "
AlftfF/- 5/'cf e ra.cA~e /- 'y'<t S. COC
JT/fpcfs /afoybePty /ys/c/G oy ey. /^ or 7/
OafcA CoaAe^e 3 ufe To Of
w / "
Ts fa. e f/T/sf 7u.f/~y <J/)e y/y "iy /
Ye*-/' fa. // c/o you US OS f*
10/af O, Cc A/P o
fyos-f/S&J (jOacf ci s ayy rf'p t
r. p \3o'RK / /*fe*9 <?°^
fAcP Cl. ry S
~S cfe/y /hoosf~
/ / V
/ ' / /: Jm
y
d\
W: r u i’
f t Cccy t&d/r^
sy* c MCDor?:- 'Ttyo*-
fo/?q cde,ccoqf <$ u
/Va 60/uf - " /^‘ y . oar
Y fSotpz, > jfv?ee,S"
dr a. cD /?? ore to a tCh
Tfy cl p e rs t "
, ° aquarium Sferfc cu>
T h a lX*t»i Ji-
7>pun aq . - __-••
,;Xnv\ y~ }/
/ I A
' / 7 ‘tUttr/unj sfiarK
Some Shark Perjuries.


F It E C K L E B A H E.
Tha unparalellfd success of this preparation in removing
Freckles Tan, Sunburn, &c . has already caused a number
of unscrupulous persons to place worthless imitations on the
m»rket. Beware of such, and see the written signature B.
Moore Clements, in red ink across label. Reject all others,
or get indirect, post free, for 2s. lOd. in N.S.W. stamps,
from Washington H. Soul and Co., Pitt-st-eet, Bydney, or
the inventor F. Moore Clements 141 King-street, New-
town, N.B. W. Please report all oases of attempted substi-
tution, when immediate legal proceedings will be com-
menced by F, M. Clements, Newtown, N.S.W.*
Egypt is famed for science, Oorniih for statuary. Australia
for climate, and Sydney for irs harbour, and the China and
Glass Emporium of Bray Brothers. This latter is a
charming place and its location is 402 and 404 George-streot.
For a few days only everything is offered at a genuine reac-
tion of 4/- in the pound, for cash Don't delay a visit.*
Worth Knowing —James’ Detective Gold Water Soap
has made a reputation for itself quite surprising. In the
‘■wash-tub,’ its patrons declare it far suroasses all other
soaps for quickness, ease, and perfection. Its cures in skin
diseases, &c., are wonderful— scurvey, prickly heat, all kinds
of sores, bad feet, horses with greasy heels, cows with sore
teats, mangy dogs, are all subject to its removing power,
while it is so.d at common soap price. The genuine testi-
monials which Mr. James has from ministers, missionaries,
gentlemen of position, working men and their wives, are un-
deniable. Over. 200 grocers in Sydney keep it, and all com-
munications get proippt.attention from Mr. H. James, the
maker, at 7G3 George street, Sydney.*
Study your own Interest by using Pemell's Snow-white
IPatbnt Roller Flour. It is made in th® oolony from
the best oolonial wheat by the newest patented u '
Xhe quality is exceptionally good, and the prioe ye
Society
It is stated that a certain Australian
Governor ha’, of late, b:en very successful in
mining speculations into which he has been put
by hibitues of Government House. As His Ex-
cellency may not yet have had time to read up
early colonial history we do ourselves the pleasure
of stating, for his information, that the first Aus-
tralian mining boom was fixed up in the year 1788
by a gentleman named Dailey, who had somewhat
involuntarily left the dear old mother country. Mr
D. mixed up some brass and gold filings an
told Governor Phillip that he had found a gold
mine. The attempted imposition failed, anc
in the words of the historian White, “ Instead
rec°ivlng a reward for his gold discovery he wa
taken into ous'ody and examined with grea
privacy and strictness, and no satisfactory eTrm*-
dation being obtained from him, he was ordere
to be severely whipped. Subsequent to thi
punishment—of which he was prepirad to expec
a weakly repetition between the intervals of bar
labour—it was also ordered that he should b
loaded with heavy irons during the time of hi
remaining in the colony." But even this did no
cure Mr. Dailey, who afterwards re-told his story
to a stern military man named Johnston, wh
speedily caused him to recant by threatening t
put a bullet through him, and get him
flogged again. Thereafter, when Mr. Da'ley
took his walks abroad, he bore the letter “ R ” on
his back. This may possibly afford a useful hin
to his Excellency when the mining fraternity pu
him on toast one of these days.
* • *
A pathetic photograph is now being ex
hibited itt the show-case of a ColUns-street firm
representing the flower of the Victorian aristocrat;
fixed up after what they fondly believe to be
* ‘ School for Scandal ” fashion. Heaven forgive
them, for they know not what they did! The
ladies lock sweet, despite the trifling discrepancy
of a century between their headgear and their
Paris costumes, but the men —the male nobility—
are enough to make Sir Jo3hua Reynolds rise from
his cold grave. The suppositious Charles Surface
sports a moustache in which many sparrows
might build their nests, Joseph carries a long
biaok beard, Sir Peter Teazle —in the person o
Barenet Clarke—looks historically inaccurate with
his usual moustache-beard combination. If any
man had told us that Sir William, of Ruperts
wood, was capable of wearing a powdered wit
with an unshaven phiz, we should have hurlec
the horrid insinuation back at that man. In his
everyday garb the only Victorian Baronet betrays
no want of taste, but rather a profound genius for
playing his part. He is neither ’orty, nor com-
manding, nor gorgeous in appearance—but he
looks peculiarly like a Baronet. Notone of Ouida’s
pattern, but a responsible British baronet of long
desoent. The hang of bis frcck coat, the rim of his
bell-topper, the cut of hia trousers, and the ner-
vous jerk of his hand as he walks along, make a
harmonious pic ura of old aristocracy. Sir Wil-
liam Clarke might fce picked out from a crowd as
the best-bred man among them, simply because
he wears bis very unpretentious garments as
though his anoestors came over with the Con-
queror. His very method of faltering and fumb-
ling with a three lines speech is patrician in its
absurdity. Everything about him is baronetty—
solid, heavy, dull, country-baronetty. Brassey
can’t lcok distinguished worth a cent, as compared
with Clarke, and even Baron Bob (whose title does
date back to the days of William Pitt) is quite a
tawdry kind of “ toff” beside the butcher’s eldest
son. Many people don’t understand how wide a
social gulf separates Clarke from the horde of
knights who just live and die and leave no handle
behind them. But if he did get his exceptional
“honour” by a fluke, let us find comfort in the
fact that this o’ herwise unremarkable personage
carries it as though to the manner bern. There,
now!
* * *
The Imperialistic policy of conferring
hereditary titles on penniless men is developing a
race of beings who are compelled to live upon
their wits. The Canterbury title was given to
the first holder because he had been Speaker of
the House of Commons. He had no land, and but
his pension to live on. The third holder of the
title is now an insolvent debtor. The St Leonards
title was given because the flrsb holder —whose
lather was a barber—was a successful pol'tical
lawyer, and became Lord Chancellor of England,
also landless, and the present holder— hc is pretty
well known in Australia. A few days ago a
baronet died in Surry Hills in obscure circum-
stances, and we hear of another earning a preca-
rious livelihood in a neighbouring colony as a
commission-agent. This little gentleman is vain
of his title, if not of his business, and it is funny
to read a memo, after this fashion— 1 ' Memo, from
Sir Samuel Snooks, Bart., to Timothy Twiddle.
Have a patent maDgle for sale. Will suit your
missus. Time-payment; half-a-crown a week.”
And we lately heard of an Irish Earl keeping a
pub. on the Rocks, Sydney. Verily, the unlanded
gentry of England is becoming a by-word in the
oolonles.
* * *
Quong Tart, the well-known and popular
Sydney tea-and-scone-for-sixpenoe man, has been
made a fifth-class Mandarin of China. This gives
Quong in bis own land a rank equivalent to that
of an English baron, and thus puts him on a level
with Lord Carington, who, already reoognising
Quong’s altered status, now cordially says : “How
do you do, dear boy ?" This baronial business
must be rather tantalising to such good citizens as
S. A. Joseph. Bnrdett Smith, &c., who have not
yet been made even sixth-class mandarins.
* * *
Mr. Charles Warner, who arrived last
week under an engagement to the Triumvirate,
wrote a twaddling letter to the Melbourne dailies,
stating that it expanded a man's mini to make
the voyage between England and Australia.
Charles’s previous ocean experiences have, no
doubt, been confined to two hours' runs between
Dover and Calais, so he may be excused for for-
getting that more than 50 per cent, of the Vic-
torians have already expanded their minds and
half forgotten the circumstance. But when the
great actor slings worn-out drivel about the at-
tention and politeness of the officers (especially
that inevitable purser) it is time to rise and pre-
test. Th 3 fulsome flattery heaped upon the care-
fully-attired lady-killer 3 of the P. and O. and
Orient steamships makes any old traveller squirm.
When will saloon prs engers understand that
stewards and pursers make fools of them by affect-
ing to dispense as favours the sundry little luxuiies
for which those passergars have paid in aivanea !
Bah! A smirking pusar sidles up to a pretty
girl (puts his hands on her shoulders if her big
brother isn’t looking) and says. “ Now isn’t there
something you would fancy J / will endeavour to
get it for you.” And her gratitude for the dear
man’s pa f ronage osn hardly ba expressed. The
same girl, staying at an hotel, never thinks of
gushing about the considerate kindness of the
hired manager, nor dees she imagine that he
makes her a present of the chick an broth charged
to her account. But a ship s purser—the poorly-
paid manager of a floating hotel —gives himself
the airs and takes more than the liberties of a
private host. Then the captain—how nice of him
to invite the moat impressionable maidens, by
twos and threes, to take tea in h's private cabin !
That glorified tar is only doling out your
own pre-purchasad victuals, ladies, and doing a
mash on the strength of his bogus hospitality.
Those choice fruits which he keeps in his cabin
especially for the fair invalids, have been shipped
A SOLEMN FACT.
GLOBE-TROTTER (to well known Melbourne lawyer): “ Yon a hydraulic engineer! I
thought you were a lawyer? "
LAWYER: “Well, I am a lawyer, but, in Australia, all lawyers have to be hydraulic
engineers. They meet so many people with water on the brain that they
have to draw it off before they can make themselves understood."
ab the last port touched, and duly debi ed to the
hotel. Again, bah ! If woider stricken Mr. War-
ner would like The Bullet.n's opinion about the
“ Jriud attention and politeness ’ of ships’ office s
he can have it in a series of giddy anecdotes, whis-
pered in his mo3t private ear. We have seen angry
fathers, husbands, and brothers hold an indigna-
tion meeting on the quarter deck, and pass a reso
lution d g mariners in gold buttons to all
eternity. In mufti those salt-water Don Juans
are not particularly dangerous. And this reminds
us that if ever Mr. Warner travels from London
to New York by the famous Cunard line, he will
find the officers not at all gorgeous or attentive.
The Cunard Company promptly dismiss any ser-
vant seen talking to a lady passenger near his
cabin dcor.
* # *
The gifted “ Humming Bee ” speaks In
the social columns of Sydney D.T. :
In town one's friends live in all sorts of impossible
suburbs. They each have their "days," and if one did one's
visiting dnty it would be necessary to drive round and round
perpetually, appearing at the Glebe on Monday for Lady As
reception day, at Randwick on Tuesday for Mrs. B s. at the
North Shore on Wednesday to call on Mrs, C, Edieciiffe-
road on Thursday for Lady 7>, and back again to Glebe
Point on Friday for Mrs. E.
“ Humming Bee ” evidently moves in the highest
“suckles” when she puts two titled females into
a list of five acquaintances, and the cheese-
mongers' wives who read the D.T. are no doubt
equally select. Curiously enough, too, the social
difficulty of which she oomplains has ooourred to
us also on more than one occasion, and as we were
coming down on top of the omnibus yesterday
morning we remarked on it to a duke who was
sitting beside us, and he was so much struck with
the justice of our observation that he repeated it
to the lord inside. We didn't quite catch the
lord’s full title, but the duke called him “Bill.”
Perhaps “Humming Bee’s ” friend is Lady Bill.
* * *
Lady Augustus Loltas, an accomplished
lady who well deserved a be ter fortune, has
started a perfumery business in London in her old
sge,
• • *
A Welsh “copper” was prowling aboutthe
little reserves in Wellington Parade, Richmond
(Melb.), one night last week, when he came upon
a sweet young couple, the children of swagger
people in East Melbourne, who were carrying on
in thB usual way, and that was all. ‘ 1 Taffy ”
couldn’t run them in for “insulting behaviour”
or bad conduct, for they weren’t doing either, but
he created a little offence to meet the case, and
charged the loving pair with “ indiscreetness, ’
and forthwith proceeded to take the ! r names. The
fair one prayed and besought that Taffy wouldn’t
expose her, and at length the copper was meted.
He “reserved judgment,” es he observed the
judges did sometimes, and told the fair maid that
if she met him by moonlight alone, or under the
street-lamp at the Richmond Post-office the next
night he would give his decision in her case. In
the meantime, the yonng pair made a clean breast
of the whole affair to their pa’s and ma's, and the
next night Taffy waited in vain under the lamp-
post opposite Sheehy’s pub. for his fair but indis-
craat friend. The pa’s kicked up a deuced row
with Chief-Commissioner Chomley, and Taffy was
pulled before the Chief and had to eat the leek.
The constable has been clean bowled, and may
bless his stara if he’s not run out —of ‘ the
foorce. ’ Things are quite changed. It’s he that’s
no v charged w th “ iudtsoree'mess,’’ and he says
he knows the course of true lova never d'd run
smooth.
* * *
ThanewN.S.W Bankruptcy Act has one
great advantage over the old one : the amounts of
liabilities and assets are not published in the
newspapers. Montmorenoi Jones, of the Redtapo
and Sealingwax Department, can assure hi 3
friends “upon honour” that his debts are merely
trifling, and were incurred for some friends, don’t-
yerknow, while his assets are—Gad!—at least GOs.
in the £.
* * *
A gashing person with an unpronounce-
able name writes to Melbourne Herald bo inform
the world at large of the dare- devil, flery-eyed
heroism of a young lady who dashed into the
raging deep to save the life of her sister Parab,
Alter describing the rescuer as she appeared in
the act of breasting the angry billows, he con-
cludes thuswise “ Mies Lorg, who was fully
dressed, did this wibhout even removing her
gloves ” To fully grasp the enormity of this self-
sacrifice, you must understand that Miss Long
wore her Sunday dress and a duck of a bonnet,
* * *
A Melbourne attorney, who married five
years ago, has been presented by his wife in that
Ehorb space of time with a family of eight. First
there came a modest one, then two, then two re-
peated, and then—geed Heavens three!!
When the triplets were announced by telephone,
the miserable lawyer howled back : “ Take care of
’em. I’m called away to Tasmania for a month.
Fondest love.”
* * *
Maud (awakening suddenly at 3 am):
“ Mobher, there’s a man trying to break into the
house.” Mother (wearily) : “ Hush, my child;
Id’s your father; he's afraid to ring the door-bell."
* * *
A remarried widow with nine children
summoned her husband to a Sydney court last
week for leaving her without means of support.
It turned out that the poor forsaken creature had
an income of £265 per annum and property worth
£[2 000, and that her husband had only gone to
the country on his business as a traveller. We
wonder what a widow's idea of support is, any-
how i Had the hub. been worth all that and the
wife gone and left him, the probability is that the
law would step in and order her £2 per week
from her husband payable every Monday morning
at the nearest police station,
* * *
There is even greater activity than usual
in the roller-skating business in Melbourne, and
all the elite have gone a-rinking and a-conoussing
of their brains. According to a Melbourne con-
temporary the originator of the rink in this part
of the wodd (Mr. Ridgely) has cleared nearly
£20,000 in les3 than two years, though as his rink
at Sydney Exhibition was said to have been a
losing concern during the latter part of theseason,
these figures possibly indicate a slight straining
after picturesque effect. Still, the same specula-
tive individual recently imported 20,000 pairs of
skates, from which it is evident that he confi-
dently expects Australia to go on a-rlnking for
some years to comp.
* * *
J. J. Normoyle, who has been chief of the
criminal branch of the Crown Law Department,
Melbourne, for the last quarter of a century, has
retired, and is going back to Ireland. A spread
was given to him last week, when Judges Tommy
Cope and Qiinlan and ex-Judges O. A. Smyth aud
Walsh were present, and some queer yarns of
pa3t criminal trials were told over the beer.
* * *
Ad. from Melbourne Age :—Attractive
advertisements, prose or verse, written, ex-
perienced author and journalist." Now we know
where all the epitaphlcal and elegiac poetry of
the Age comes from.
• * *
The Down and Gumtree Jernil gives a
tip to a youDg lady correspondent M N —l.
When a lady lays a wager of a pair of gloves with
a gentleman and loses, she is not expected to give
him the gloves. It is not considered the proper
thing for ladies to pay bets of thi3 kind.” Alfred
Bennett rising to di srulge the points of etiquette
and advising repudiation is a sight to make the
cherubim scree oh. From this ft -would appear
that in his journalistic oapaotty he has fully assi-
milated Parkes’ doctrine that honour doesn’t con-
sist in paying 20s. in the £.
• • *
Half the male population of Castlemalne
(Vic.) broke into the looal biths the other day
whilst a large assortment of belles were indulging
in a dip. It pains us to ohronlcle tho faot that
several matrimonial engagements have sinoe been
broken off.
* * *
It has just struck us that the military and
naval men who flourished in Sydney 50 years ago
must have been an exceedingly pious lot, judging
from the numerous tablets erected to their
memory in St. James’ Church,
* # *
In the post mortem examination of a
woman who died of tight-lacing at Ararat (Vic,),
the other day, the doctors discovered three of the
ribs foroed into the liver. Tightness always is
pretty rough on the liver.
* * #
The Sydney Metropolitan Liederfcafel sang
at the dinner given to Mr. Justice Windeyer the
other evening at Gunsier’s, but it is wholly
untrue, ae has been maliciously alleged, in cer-
tain obscure quarters, that they chanted the
‘ 1 Dead March in Saul."
* * m
The invitation to the Down and Gumtree
press banquet reached a Cooktown editor on the
day of the spread, and he got wild and denounced
the thing as a huge advertising fizzle. The
“invites” for Normauton and Croydon journals
will probably reach there next week, although the
Noozffi has been careful,to state that long-distance
invitations were telegraphed. The oards will,
however, come in handy for next Centenary
press banquet.
* * *
A fair creature at Sydney Royal, the other
night, was attired in a low-necked bodice of
Jubilee-red flannel delightfully bare of frills or
trimmings. The “ sucole ’ being crammed, a man
who came in late and who had to take up his
position at the rear of the red-vested darliDg to
catch a glimpse of Yum-Yum, started back with
a vio’ent exclamation. He thought he had wan-
dered into a butcher’s shop I
* * *
The nasty little Adelaide Lantern grows
blandly sarcastic :
The people over iu N.B.W. have gushed consumedly over
the Centennial celebrations, but the climax was reached
when Sir ‘Eury Parkes, “ our venerable statesman," exposed
his bare poll, like the knob of a wooden gate-post, to the
searching rays of the sun—the rays searched, but they could
not get a clue to anything in that ostrich egg—and Lady
Oarington theatrically held her sunshade over Parkes’ poll,
in order that the sun might not waste its rays in a vaiu at-
tempt to warm up the Parkesian intellect The crawlers and
the sycophants straightway cheered, and the mob followed
suit because a mob always does follow a noise. The mob
would have cheered with equal enthusiasm if lady Oarington
had bounced an orange oft' the polished nut cf their veDe--
able fraud. A mob hes no more idea of the fitntss of thir gs
than a c„w has of the quality of milk she gives, or a hen i f
the venerable ate of the egg which appears on the lodging-
bousr-table. It was a nice little graceful oourtesy of Lady
Carin gi on, and wt uld have been more effective if she bad
fanned the venerable statesman, blown his venerable nt se
for him, and then taken up a collection on bis behalf.
Apparently Adelaide is under the erroneous im-
pression that Parkes is bald. An orange wouidn’b


Everybody aay*—and what everybody «ay» must be true—
that PemeU’i Bnow-whitk Patent Roller Flour <■ the
b9»t in the market.*
Bserybody should use Parnell's latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is tbe greatest suooess of the
age.*
When next fou bake trj PemeU'i Snow-whit* Bollkb
Vlohßi and tour bread will be ai white ai mow.*
THE WORLD-RENOWNED ST. LOUIS LAGER
BEER STILL TRIUMPHANT.
We ask the Australian people to give all the
brands of Lager Beer a fair trial, then try the
great American Nectar, St. Louis Lager Beer.
Examine the bottle when purchasing and see the
trade mark is on every label a letter A wPh the
American Eagle looking through it. 5,000,000
Bottles of * his Famous Beer sold in the Australian
colonies since i:s introduction. Tnii Beer has
been awarded gold medals and the highest awards
from four of the l»rg-:st Exhibitions given in the
world- Pniladelpbie, New Oileats, Paris and
Amsterdam, against—73 competing brewers.*
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
office.
bounce off his head unless he got his hair cut.
p.S.—We can give regular work on The Bulle-
tin to the man who wrote this little extract.
• # #
According to a Northern paper, the Rev.
B. Griffith, father of Sir Psalmj ell Griffith, was
the first full-blown white clergyman in Aus ralia
who celebrated the marriage-service between a
kanaka and a white woman. Years ago, two oily
brown vagabonds humped Ham’s anathema over
the sunny plains of Queensland, till at last they
“brought up” In Biisbane, and each mashed a
simple maiden from England and asked her to
come along to his island home They both said
they were princes in th*ir own country, a ad the
two little English dressmakers—who, having
been brought up under monarchical institutions,
were Prince-worshippers and Queen-worshippers
—were to have a throne and a crown apiece, and
a big palace and servants innumerable, and cocoa-
nuts without end, end ten thousand slaves to
wallop, and were to live in appalling style and
have ten new frocks every day. It never occurred
to the girls to ask why the owners of all this
magnificence were mending fences in a foreign
land instead of wearing diamonds and pearls and
golden socks, and boots studded with topazes;
they closed with the offers right away, and the
reverend gentleman in Brisbane blessed their
union and they sailed for their island kingdom in
the South Seas. But wh»n they got there, there
were no crowns and no palaces, and instead
of sitting cn a throne they had to hoe yams
about 16 hours a day, and the whole bril-
liant dream burst into shivers. In place of
getting ten new frocks every day their
clothes were annexed by sundry brown girls
whom their husbands elevated to the throne
which thou Id have been theirs, and the throne
only consisted of an upside-down kerosene tin
after all. There weren’t ten thousand slaves in
the whole place, and the few who were there wal-
loped the white women and made them fetch
water for them, and there wasn’t a diamond in
the entire archipelago—only a fragment of a
smashed tumbler. Months afterwards a trading
captain managed to carry away two broken down
white girls, who were sick of hoeing yams v ith
next to nothing on them, and of being knocked
about by a pair of native princes, who stole their
own boots and threw them at their heads. Their
husbands objected strongly, and chased them wi h
various agricultural implements, but they reached
Sydney in safety, and their crowns are now
vacant. Australian girls who hanker after the
aristocracy should take warning by their fate. It
is better to live peacefully in a shanty at Is. 6d. a
week than to be hauled round by the hair by a
monarch or a duke—whether in the Cannibal
Islands or in the “ dear old mother country.”
* • *
Tfcc latest adveit'sement is that of a New
York hosier. He placed in his window a
young and prettv lady who displays upon her
neatly-turned ankles the newest thir g instockings,
* » •
Forty years ago, two lovers, after telling
how passionately attached they were to ore
another, agreed to separate on some misunder-
standing. One went to the East, the other to the
Weßt. ; both married and reared large families,
and both lost their consorts. Under thesa
familiar circumstances these old lovers met.
Cupid quiokly rekindled the love of yore, and the
local parson (it was at Nagambie, Vic,) completed
an engagement which had lasted 10 years eni
withstood one marriage-tie.
* * •
That was a disgraceful scene at the Win-
deyer banquet in Sydney, the other evening, when
a member of Parliament, who had inadvertently
“jumped” a seat belonging to a Civil servant,
refused to retire therefrom after being informed
of his mistake.
* • •
Labouchere, commenting on a esse in
London in which a lady’s maid bad been dismissed
for refusing to unlace her n- i tress’s boots, re-
marks that valeting is quite as degrading to the
valeted as to the valet. “I don’t think,” he fays,
“that I should like to be stripped or dressed by
another person. I remember once, at a little inn
in the north of Italy, I asked for a cigar, and tbe
obliging waiter brought it to mo lit. I thought
this was going too far at tbe time. But, af er all,
it was only the principle of valeting carried to its
logical conclusion.”
• # *
Rev. R. C. Gilmour, of Dublo (N.S.W.),
thus announces himself to the eligible sons and
daughters of bis district“ Marriages duly cele-
brated by an officiating minister, Church of
Christ, Dubbo. Fee, one guinea. All communi-
cation s ad dressed to R. C. Gilmonr will receive
prompt attentior.”
* * *
Brown has a jealcus wife, and whenever
she engages a parlour maid of unusual ferocity
and hideousness her husband remarks in tbe stilly
watches of the night: “ My dear, whrre did yon
pet that new girl ? She Is as pretty as Hebe.
What an arm she has, and what an ankle ! ’ That
settles it; the new giil goes next day.
# * *
Sacred item of fashionable intelligence
cut from the Bathurst (N.S.W.) Wesleyan
Quarterly Directory, a publication issued
under the auspices of 18 clergymen
Outward Adorning.—Directoire gowns are becoming more
and more fashionable, a mutter which affords little occasion
for surprise, as the style is eminently artistic, graceful,
picturesque, and becoming, and this a pretty woman with a
good figure is not long in finding out.
We wonder which of the 18 holy fathers under-
takes the task of satisfying the literary wants i f
“pretty women with good figures" ?
* * *
An Australian lady is Shakirg her bustle
with scornful empbssis because Dr. Cameron
Lees made incorrect statements touching “ our
great and wonderful land.” She is as certain as
she can be of anything in the whole world, my
dear, “ that we cannot expect to be fully under-
stood by a man who comes here for only a few
months, and moves in the higher circles of
societv.” The argry lady is not very wide of
the mark. A parson who spends his time in
silent prayer, earnest exhortation, and visits to
squatters’ town residences, wouldn’t learn much
about our wonderful land except the number of
sheep it carries during a good season. When
Lees wasn’t communing wi'h Heaven and the
elect that rotund pillar of the Church was
wandering round the higher circle in search of
corn, and wine, and oil to keep up his strength
for the g(Ol fight. Consequf ntlv, he returned to
Bonnie Scotland with restricted ideas about Aus-
tralians, masculine and feminine. Dr. Lees found
the average Dyman devoted to banquets and his
Gracious Quetn, whi’e the representative woman
wore bookmaker’s rings, and gesticulated with
ungloved hands In railway carriages. He also
found that it was a custom of the country to own
10,000 sheep, and eat oysters with a knife. And
he found “no poverty in Australia’’—the
squatters, the Melbourne Presbytery, and the
Government House crowd being all of them
abundantly blessed with this world’s goods.
* * *
Our reverend brother journalist, Zacbary
Barry, L.L.D., of Sydney, editor of the Protes-
tant Standard, has started a ponderous contro-
versy in the columns of the Gazette published by
the girls of the Sydney High School. He wants
to know whether, when the girls swallow poi ridge
and milk, it is the porridge or the milk which
beeps the darlings up. Z’.chary thinks it is the
milk.
• « *
Miss Berens, whom Gumboil Cairns has
married, is 27 years old, and has seen ‘life”
pretty extensively, for Albeit Edward was, at
one time, one of hf r most devoted slaves. Gum-
boil wanted to postpone the wedding at the last
moment, in order that he might attend the Smlth-
Kilrain prize-fight, but old man Berens made him
toe the soratch and face the music.
* * *
A tall, willowy spinster, scarce of hair and
teeth, and 38, if a day, who lives with her brother
in a sparsely-settled suburb just without Mel-
bourne, is now getting about again after suffering
a shock to her nervous system fierce enough to
disturb the equanimity of a stuffed horse. The
lady keeps house for her brother, who is some-
thing ia the city, and often enough on fine after-
noons, when her work was done, she would take
something of Ouida’s and in the shade of a tree?
growing in an adjacent paddock would Bit) and
commune with wild young men of noble birth and
godlike proportions One warm day last month,
as she was thus employed, came a bold, male
creature and sate him down by her side and
engaged her in gentle converse. He was tall
and beautiful as a Grecian hero, his tones were
soft and low, and ill-concealed admiration shone
in his expressive eye. The timid little heart of
the spinster promptly went eff the regulation
beat and bobbed and wobbled at an alarming
gait. She had almost despaired of being sought)
in wedlock, but hope springs eternal in the old
maid’s breast, and the thought that perchance the
long-sought suitor had come ma2e her as skittish
and uncertain as an unbroken filly. The bold
young man crowded up closer and tcld her in
tremulous tones that he had long admired her
from a distance. Whilst she giggled and sim-
pered and nibbled the covers off her book he
secured her hard, and as the blood mantled his
pale cheeks he told her with fervent accent and
passionate gesticulation that he adored her; he
pleaded that she might not look coldly upon him,
but give him one glsam of hope ; he asked her to
be his, to fly with him to a distant land, and
reign in a sumptuous palace befitting her queenly
graces. Never was maiden wooed with such
passionate fervour, such poetic ardour. The
beautiful sentiments flowed like a poem from the
lips of the handsome suitor, but the spinster only
giggled and wriggled, and eaid “ Oh, go along,
do I” He told her that he was the eon of sn Earl,
and a direct descent'ent of Juliui Cuesarand Mary
Queen of Hoots; he said he had a million a year,
seven gold mines, and a tannery, and that his
bonny bark floated on the waters of the bay, wait-
ing to bear his lovely bride to fairer lands. Taen
he clasped her closer, and prtsrei a kiss, hot frem
the oven, right on her virgin ntse; and, with a
eigh of satisfaction, the fairy creature reßted her
head upon h!s bosom, and let him do it some
more. It was a moment of glorious triumph, but,
alas I it was short-lived; two rough men cams
over the hill, and, as the maiden revelled in the
luxury of the caresses lavished by her beauteous
suitor, they bore down upon the youth, end
scruffed him, and asked her, bearhhly, “ wot she
was a-doin’with that 'e.-e pa hunt ? ’ They told
her that her gay gallant was an escapee from the
Kew Lunatic Asylum, and thathe had a penchant
for proposing to every womm he mst. He had
proposed to his grandmother and 700 strange
females ou various occasions. They kept a dress-
maker’s dummy In the asylum which he proposed
to ten or eleven times a day when he was well.
When last the two rough men saw the spinster,
as they bore their “pashunt” over the hill, shB
was lunging at high heaven with her heels, and
crying “He he! ha ha ! ho, ha-o-o-o-o !” in loud
and agitated tones.
* # #
The society writer of a Sydney weekly
says that “the Louis XVI. hat is hemming to a
pretty woman made of yellow and black straw.”
What we hunger and thirst to know is, what is the
most becoming head-gear for an ugly woman
made of wire, whalebone, foreign silks and back
numbers of the S.M, Herald ?
• • '*
In a dusty N.S.W. town 300 miles inland,
a poor bushman with more beer than brains in
him, while “ suffering a recovery ” went, on a re-
cent Sawbath night, to the Episcopal Church, and
expresf ed a wish to take the pledge. The verger
landed him outside, and a bobby conveyed him to
the watchhouse. Next morning he was had up
before the beak for disturbing a congregation, com-
mitted for trial and ‘ 1 sent up” for three months. He
says he will not seek the pledge again. The par-
son declares the police misunderstood him, as he
merely wished the man removed, but the man
himself says he wanted to reform and holy church
wouldn’t let him.
* # *
Notwithstanding all soits of precaution on
the part of the officers of SydneySohool of Arts, the
lady members cut out the fashion-plates from the
journals devoted to that sort of thiDg, and, while
the greatest literary efforts of the human mind
are neglected in dust and oblivion, everything re-
lating to a flounce or a furbelow is - perish the
pen that indites the hideous word—stolen ! This
is very sad, but what can we expect of the female
descendants of her who “ d d us all for a bite
of a golden pippin?” In this connection
there is one thing only which is remarkable and
that is that the fair dames stop to cut the pictures
out. We have seen the alleged journals, and
there are so many pictures in them of long-legged
marquises with phenomenal “mustiveys,” and
slim figures in shooting-jackets, surmounted by
aristooratio frontispieces, crowned with the wealth
of brown abundant curls, my dear, and such a
wealth of fictional interest centreing round the
wicked duke with the glittering eye and the coral
lips, that the forbearance of the ladles in nob
making a single meal of the entire affair deserves
praise, not censure.
* * #
Oscar Wilde used to tell this tale, wl ich
he had receive d from the chief actress in is. It
was at the time of the prosecution by Mrs.
Langtry and Mrs Cornwallis West of the low
London print, Town Talk, for asserting that the
respective spouses of these two dear creatures
were about to institute diverce prcccedings in
which the Prince of Wales would figure as a co-
respondent, and all London was agog in the mat-
ter. It happened that at this juncture Mrs.
Langtry, at a certain dinner party, sat next that
late-lamented bilious prig, Prince Leopold, who
presently opened proceedings by sayirg in a freezy
tone: “Do you know, Mrs. Largtry, that my
mot* aw is very much annoyed by your mme
being coupled with my brothaw’s in this way ? ”
The Lily was a litt’e taken aback, but ret ponded
quietly : “Do you know, Prince Leopold, that my
husband is very much anrojed at the Prince if
Wales’ name being c:upled with mine in this
way ? ” It was the Prince’s turn to he taken
abaok now, but he cune up equal to the occasion
with: “ Yas, Mrs. Langtry, but it is different
with you and w’th my brothaw !" And the
whole table sat listening with awe, as the
Lily guilelessly replied, “Yes. Prince Leopold,
for he is accustomed to it and lam not /” The
subject was changed,
* * •
Your ear one moment, Baron Oarington.
'J he “ Vagabond ” has discovered that by your
constant use of your “ forced, theatrical smile,”
you are rapidly filling your face with wrinkles.
Mr. Thomas is also pained to note that the
people don’t respect you, and that by attempting
too much popularity you have lowered the dignity
(whatever that may be) of your office.
* * #
A N.Z, paper announces that a gi 1 in its
neighbourhood has discovered the only thoroughly
effective way of suppressing the colonial masher.
A young gentleman sighted a pretty girl in the
park and requested a kiss —what is more, too, he
got it. The young lady backed up t gainst a tree,
took out her handkerchief, solemnly wiped
his mouth, and then let him lake it l . Then she
wiped her mouth several times. Somehow, all
the pleasure was knocked out of the performance,
and, after taking one imprint of her lips, he went
away to think the matter over.
* * *
Sc me years ago, the Australian Cold-watt r
Party imported a bald-headei Yankee named Eli
Johnson to lecture against the accursed drink.
Eli did, and piled up the dollars in doing P. His
lecture consisted of an exposure of the adultera-
tions of grog, and he published and sold, at
six i ence per copy, a neat little pamphlet contain-
ing some hundreds of recipes for mak’ng liquors
out of “almost nothing." .Another fat headed
temperance lecturer was lately on the warpath in
the back blocks, srd his advent was hailed with
delight by the publicans of a certain little scorched
township, the reason being that they wanted seme
more methods of making cheap grog. One of these
states that skee he got a copy of Eli Johnson s
book he has never had occasion to trouble the
wine and spirit merchant,
* * *
A lieutenant on board the Russian war-
ship “ RyEda” is named Assossoft—with the ac-
cent on the Ah. Being a youDg man, be probably
is.
* • #
"Wilfrid Blunt, the M.P. who unsuccess-
fully appealed against his sentence of twomoiths
for resisting the police at a Home Rule msetirg
at Woodford, Galway, lait October, is well known
in London as an anonymous poet, the author of
the “Love Poems of Proteus.” These are a
series of irr. galar sonnets descript he of Wil-
frid's amours with several charming ladies, one
of whom is his wife, the delightfully insouciant
Lady Betty Blunt. Wilfrid was a Piccadilly
lounger of the Laurence Olphar.t type, and Lord
Lytton said in the Nineteenth Century that
his little book cf poems was the beet of their sort
since Heine. The frontispiece of them is a sketch
by the author representing him buttoned up to the
chin in a great ciat, standi'g in the sleet beside
a grave, on the stone of which is inscribed in
Latin, “Here lies Love.” At present Wilfrid is
lying in Tullamore Gaol.
* * •
The fact that the Earl of Durham has
accused Sir George Chetwyod of “turf mal-
practices ” is a scandal merely on account of the
unsavoury reputations of the parties, ctherwife
there would ba no more in it than the “ blowing
of the gaff” by a tinker cn a bottle-dealer. Sir
George Chetwynd is the man who had a fight with
virtuous Lord Lonsdale—Mrs. Langtry being the
casus belli The Earl of Durham achieved
celebrity by trying to prove that his wife was a
lunatic on her wedding-day, and failir g to sub-
pvantlate the self-incriminating statement. Two
such worthies might go on accusing one another
of thir gs for a week, without getting half through
their little lists.
* * *
Misther Donovan, of Wellington (N.Z.),
was charged with assaulting his sick wife, the
other day, and stated that tfce only thiDg that
was wrorg with the lady was “dandy fever.”
“I kem home at midnight, yer honner," he said,
“and I found her prefer din’ to be ill, an’ a basle
of a dude was sittln’ by her g’.vin’ her some medi-
cine,” and then the excited husband fired the
young man out and administered correction to tie
other half of him with a shiick. The case was
adjourned, as the magistrate felt it wanted some
thinking over,
* * *
Says London Life : -
Mr. John Smith’s recent legacy of £lOO,OOO to Lord Caring-
ton will come in very rpportunely, and Bhould effectually
pLce that popular nobleman on his legs again It is not
every man in Lord Carmgtou s position, cna of the chief
favourites of the Marlborough House "inner set,” and
courted and run after by the very cream of London society,
who would have had the courage to gracefully accept the in-
evitable and retire for a decade to the outer desolation of a
Colonial pro-Coisulship, in order to allow a once magnifi-
cent property time to recoup. It is all the more to Lord
Carington’s credit that he has adapted himself with wonder-
ful adroitness to his new surroundings, and earned golden
opinions from all classes of the community in the colonies.
Thanks to good Mr. Smith, Lord and Lady Carington will
now soon be in a position to return to England and resume
their place in London society.
This, of course, is sheer nonsense, as it is well
known at Potts Point that Lord Carington came
to N.S.W. to spend £50,000 a jear, beside his
official screw, and show people how to do things
properly.
• * *
The S.M. Herald’s English special cor-
respondent has a friend who is on speaking terms
with Wa’es. He mentions the fact in his paper
A friend of mine who went to superintend some theatrical
entertainments at Sandringham was lodged at a cottage on
the estite ; in ths everiug the Prince walked with him to bis
lodging, smoki g and chatting; and, parting with him for
the nigat, emptied his cigar-caee into his guest s pocket, and
recommended him a particular brand of whisky for his
“ nightcap.”
* * *
The wedding of Mr, Edward Featherby
(stepson cf Mr. Thomas Tupper, manager of the
celebrated Long Tunnel mine) and Mies E. Sher-
wood was celebrated at Walhalla (Vic.) on Fob*
ruary 2, Among the presents were a broom with
a piece of poetry tied to the handle, also a minia-
ture cradle.
A Potts Point lady saj s that dress-im-
provers are still de rigger. She probably means
de wriggle, fcr outrigger.
A CONVEBSATION OVERDEARD IN
PITT-STREET
No, thanks! I never go in for gold or silver
mines. At the best, if alls square, they are but
lotteries. I like something solid and sure. The
shares of the Australasian Trust Management
Company are my only fancy. No.hing like them
for safe and increasing dividends. I took 1000 of
their first issue early last year. Can’t get any
more of then, so I'm going in for 200 of iheir £5
Guaranteed Preference Shares.
Gu »rauteed shares ? Wha are they ?
Why, yru pay one-fouth (£1 5 .) per share in
cash, or by instalments Of Is. per share per month,
and if yon have houses, or land, tr shares, or
deposit receipts or cash, you can deposit your
deeds, shares, deposit receipts or cash as
a guarantee for the baance of £3 15s. per
share, and you continue tr occupy your house, or
to draw sour rents cr dividends, or interest pay-
able as usual on your deposited secuiities ; crif
you guarantee by deposit of cash you draw in-
terest thereon at Current Bank Rates, receiving
also, in any case, a bonus of *2 per cent, per
annum on the amount so guaranteed, together
with a share of profits onard from payment up
of the £1 53. per snare. And you may change or
withdraw your security at pleasure.
Why, ho v can they afford to give a bonus of £2
per cent, on money they cannot employ ?
Well, you see, as they need a tig capital to
secure a special Act of Parliament and the con-
fidence of trustees, it's easier to get out a
capital in this way, for there are thousands who,
having houses, land, or other seour.ties, are glad
to make a second profit on them ; and it's cheaper
to give a bonus of £2 per cent, than to pay a high
rate of dividend on a large paid-up capital, so
shareholders and company are botn benefited;
and while the public have the guarantee of an un-
doubted capital, the company, tei: g able to afford
such a tolid security, attracts a good business, and
makes a good retarn on the part paid up.
It ssems all right; but I never heard of such
shares before !
Oh ! guaranteed shares are common in Holland
and the Cape, and you know the old Du'ch finan-
ciers are safe, long-headed fellows ; and I don’t
suppose anyone wou’.d object to follow their
good example, and make a second profit on their
securities when they have the chance.
Well, no, if it’s safe.
Safe! Why “ trust management ’’ business is
at once tie safest and most profitable of businesses
—nothing like it for safety, and nothing has ever
equaLed it for large and constantly increasing
dividends.
That’s a strong assertion. .
Well it’s true —nothing more true. You see,
being only an agency business a trust company
has no risk ; and its bu iness once well started
increases as testators die off to aa extent which
must y eld an amount of business on which to
draw commissions* very many, mai y times in ex-
cess of its capital. Tne profi s of every business
depend on doi g the largest amount of business
on fche smal est possible capital, and Trust Manage-
ment business gives this chance in the highest de-
gree.
What will they pay ? You seem to have studied
the matter.
Well, you know I’m cautious. I r ever go in for
anything with my eyes shut, but why I know so
much abtut the matter is—you remember meeting
Moller at my house about threj years since, when
he was on a visit to the Cape—well, he expressed
rurpriso that v e had no Trust Men-gement Com-
pany here ; couldn't do without them at the Cape
he said. He told me of several friends who, or
whose widows, are now drawirg enormous divi-
dends which bad increased in 30 j ears from £8 to
£300 per cent., and more in one case.
That seems too good to be true.
Well, it is true ; but it has taken time, of court e
—It’s the growth of business over many years. He
to>d me no Trust Company has ever gone wroDg,
they can’t go wrong, they all make steady progress.
What has been doie at the Cape and in Melbourne
can surely be done here. Why net 1
One would think so I didn’t know they had
any such onmpa ies in Melbourne.
Oh, yes, and all doing weil ; one already pays
£20 per cent.
What do you expect to make?
I calculate on a certain £8 per cent, perhaps
£10, as soon as the compary gets its capital, and
I am sure I am within the mark in locking for an
increase of at least £2 per cent, per annum ; so
I hat my wife, when I’m under the turf, will get
say 30 per cent oa my £1000, or £300 a year.
W ell, it’s all very well for y ou, J nes—youv’e
houses and cash to depcsit—you’re a man o£ Capi-
tal ; I’ve no deeds to deposit. I’ve only a few
hundreds to h ve t
1hen£l “Preference” shares, the third issue
of this company, will just suit your pocket Sub-
scribe for a few of them, and you will certainly
make money. You have no need to guarantee
them. They may be paid up in fall, »r to 5s.
only, at your option, and by monthly irstalments
oi one shilling. They bear a preferer ce dividend
of £6 par cent per annum from payment of 5s.
per share, and will certainly pay the biggest divi-
dend ever known in a few yea a time, Take 500
for yours 3] f and the wife and 100 apiece for the
children. 1 hey 11 be the best provision for them.
They’ll be at a good premium in a few months, I’ll
bet. Take as many as you can and you'll never
regret It.
Well, I think I’ll take your advice and leave
the “ Squatter Hills ” alone and go in for 500 £1
preferenoe shares of “ The Australasian Trust
Management Co.” Where’s their office ?
Corner of Ring and Elizabeth streets, Sidney.
Read the company’s prospectus In Rst Friday’s
“ Daily Telegraph.” Be smart about it. The
shares arc going off fast, I’m told. Good-bye, old
man.


DO YOU KNOW
That the very best Blood Purifier and Spring medicine is dr.
bell's bitters.
That it cures Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Head-
ache, and Kidney and Liver complaints.
That it is a wonderful medicine for restoring and sharpen-
ng the Appetite.
That it cures Scrofula, Salt Rheum, Boils, Pimples, or
other diseases of the Blood
If you suffer from any of these affections, try dr. bell’s
bitters at once.
DR. bell s bitters as a Blood Purifier has no equal. It
tones the sj stem, strengthens and invigorates, giving new
life.
The highest Medical Authorities pronounce it the only
known Specific for Kidney, Live' and Urinary diseases, that
it has no equal as a BLOOD PUR'FiER, and that it is the
best safeguard against contaeious rhsea es, both acute and
chronic, keeping the KIDNEYS and LIVER, the great
organs of the body, in healthy condition, disease then being
jxpossible.
WHAT
WILL convince you of the wonderful cura-
ti e nr >perties combined in de bell's
bitters, if the remarkable cures that have
been effected by its use fail to im ureas upon your mind this
repeatedly proven fact. Thousancs are using it, and all d a -
clare that it is a
and even mo e than
if y'u are sick, or
WILL
medicine possessing all
we c aim for it My friend,
in that condition that
you cannot call you s a f either sick or well, go and get a
bottle of dr. Bell f bitter**, aad realise yourself how this
medicine hits the right spot, and
puts all the machinery of your body
into working order.
00NV1JNUE
One of our prominent business men said to us the other
day: "In the spriug my wife got all run down and could
noteat anything; pissing a store I saw a lit of bells
bitters in and I get a bottle. After she had
been taking it a week she had a rousing appetite; and it did
her A world of pooD. She took three bottles, and it was
the best investment ever made.
PROVIDENCE
Helps' those who help themselves. Nature has provided
herbs for the cure of human ailments, and medical science
has discovered their healing powers, and the proper combina-
tions necessary to conquer disease. The result of these dis-
coveries and combinations is—
DR. BELL’S SITTERS.
For many years it has be»n tented in severe cases of Kid-
ney and Liver diseases, Malaria, Dyspepsia, Indigestion,
Weakness, Lassitude, &c., and invariably it has given relief
and cure. Thousands of testimonials have been given, and
it is most popular where best known.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
-H WALKS AND QUEENSLAND,
CENTENARY UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION, 1888.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, EXHIBITION BUILDING.
WILL OPEN about MARCH 1, 1888. Under the auspices and distinguished patronage of HIS
EXCELLED)* Kt. Hon. LORD CAR KINGTON, OC.MQ., &c , Governor of New South
Wales; Lieut Governor Sir ALFRED STEPHEN, C. 8., G.C.M G. ; The Hon. Sir HENRY
P4RKES, G.C.MG,, and the Members of the Ministry; His Honor Sir FREDERICK DARLEY,
chief Justi e ; Sir ED. STRICKLAND, K. 0.8 ; .Sir WILLIAM MANNING, K.C.M G. ; Tie Hon.
J HE. YOU MO. speaker of Legislative Assembly; The Right Worshipful the MAYOR of SYDNEY
end LmJCRMEN ; The Hon. K. H. D. WHITE, M.L C., Executive Commissioner; P. FLETCHER
WaTSON, Esq., President Academy of Art, Fine Art Commissioner.
M. LEON CaRON has been appointed Musical Director. Under his baton his Cantata (expressly
composed) will be performed on the opening day.
The buildings have been declared as bonded stores. Protection of Patents exhibited will be gazetted.
APPLICATIONS for SP tCE WILL CLOSE POSITIVELY ON FEBRUARY 20. For further
Particulars apply to Exhibition Building. H. B. HARDT, Secretary.
H. H. Groth, jnn., and Co. have just opened
new premises, 529 George-street, as importers of
high-class gold paper hangings, white-lead,
paints, oil, and general colonrmen ; alao Aspinall’s
fancy enamel paints. We should suggest to
anyone requiring anything in this line to pay
them a visit.
SLAIN WITH A STONE.
No one can read the story of the youthful David,
with his simple sling and stones from the brook,
going out to meet the boastful Goliath in the pre-
sence of two armies and destroying him, without a
thrill of admiration at his bravery and prowess.
And yetsmaller stones than David used to despatch
the giant have since silently slain thousands,
The Rev. N. Pattinson, of Jticchester, Victoria,
suffered for three years from stone in the bladder.
He says his life was becoming one of misery,
and he had thought seriously of giving up the
work of the ministty, when fortunately Warner’s
safe cure was bought under his notice by a clerical
friend, the Rev. S. P. Webber, and he took the
medicine with such good results that a stone was
pas-:ed away, and a speedy restoration to health
followed Mr. W. F. Davies, of 5 Kennoway
Terrace, Rose Street. Darlington, Sydney, N.S.W.,
suffered more or less with stone in the bladder for
14 years. Last December an operation was per-
formed on him, for crushing the stone, and for the
succeeding two months he was confined to his bed,
and in a condition mote dead than alive, and gave
up all hope of recovery. At this time he was
reeomended to try Warner’s safe cure and Warner’s
safe pills. He did so, and after taking nine bottles,
which eliminated large quantities of gritty matter,
he entirely recovered; gained three stone in weight
and is to-day a living monument to the efficacy of
the medicines mentioned Mr Samuel Hosking,
or Gill-street, Charters Towers Q., was also cured
of a s were attack of gravel with Warner’s safe
cure Such testimony is beyond controversy. The
gentlemen mentioned will giadty verify every state-
ment we have made. *
Adveitising Cheats!!!
“ It has become eo common to begin an article,
in an elegant, interesting style,
“ Then run it into some advertisement that we
avoid all such,
“ And simply call attention to the merits of Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters in as plain, honest
terms as possib'e,
“To induce people
“ To give them one trial, which so proves their
value that they will never use anj thing else.”
" T->e Remedy bo favourably noticed in all the papers,
Religious and secular, is
‘‘Having a large sale, end supplanting all other medicine.
’■ There la no denying »he virtues of the Hop plants, and
the proprietors of Dr Soules' American Hop Bitters have
shown g<eat shrewdness and a ility. * *
" In compounding a medicine whose virtues are so palpable
to every one's observation.
Did She Die ?
“No !
“ She lingered and suffered along, pining away
all the time for years,”
“The doctors doing her no good ;”
‘ And at last was cured by this Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters the papers Bay so much
about.”
“ Indeed ! Indeed ! ”
‘ How thankful we should be for that medi-
cine.”
A Daughter’s Misery.
“ Eleven years our daughter suffered on a bed
of misery,
“ From a comp ication of kidney, liver, rheu-
matic trouble, and Nervous debility,
‘' Under the care of the best physicians,
“ Who gave her disease various names,
“ But no relief,
“ And now she is restored to us in good health
by as simple a remedy as Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bffters, that we had shunned for years be
fore using it.”—The Parents.
Father is Getting Well.
“ My daughter says :
“ How much tetter father is since he used Dr.
Soule’s America a Hop Bitters.”
“ He Is getting well after his long suffering
from a disease declared incurable.”
“And we are so glad that he used your
Bitters.” —A Lady of N.Y.
tf2TNone genuine without a bunch of green
hops on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s nam
blown on the bottle Beware of all the vile poi
sonous stuff made to Imitate the above.
THEATRE.
3ole Proprietor .. air. John Solomon
Business Manager Mr. Joe Davis.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. A, L, Cunard.
LAST 2 NIGHTS LAST 2 NIGHTS
of the most popular of all the many
London Gaiety Successes,
FORTY THIEVES FORTY THIEVES.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1888,
First Production In Sydney of an Entirely new
Comic Opera, by Edward Jaoobowski, entitled
DICK.
Admission —53., 3s , 25., and Is.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
Tskatkb ROTA I/.
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and BSnsiMJT*,
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Laaar,..
THIS (THURDAY) EVENING, February 9,
and for a limited number of nights,
THE MIKADO,
written and composed by
W. S. GILBERT and Sir ARTHUR SULLIVAN.
Prices I—Dress olrole, sa. j Stalls, 3s, i Circle, Is,
HEK MAJESTY’S THEATRE'
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison'
Doors open 7. { Performance 8. j Carriages 10.30,
GO AND SEE
IN THE RANKS IN THE RANKS.
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
and
Miss KATE BISHOP.
Prices, 55,, 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Oo.'b.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager,
Ai, HAnr h « a MUSJO BiLi,
George-street, Haymarket,
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Conductorshlp of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER,
THIS LEVIATHAN COMBINATION now run-
ning 113 CONSECUTIVE WEEKS in our OWN
LOCALE in the HAYMARKET, keeps still MOV-
ING ALONG to the SATISFACTION of the
PUBLIC, and the ENTIRE SATISFACTION of
the MANAGEMENT.
TO FIGHT,
A NEW WORLD OF FUN.
Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Balcony, Bd.
y ICTORIA RACING CLUB,
FLEMINGTON.
AUTUMN MEETING
Now Extended to Four Days,
SATURDAY, MARCH 3rd.
TUESDAY, MABOH 6th.
THURSDAY, MARCH Bth.
SATURDAY, MARCH 10th.
Added Moaey, £8875.
The arrangements for the Comfort of Visitors
are now the most complete in the world,
HOLIDAY EXCURSION FARES.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
BOTANY
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 8.80.
GRAND SACRED AND CLASSICAL CONCERT
of Wbll-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS.
HORSES v. BICYCLES.
Postponed until S ATURDAY Next, February 18.
F. S. ROLtINSON and SAMUEL CLARKE,
against W. F. ROBINSON
with THREE HORSES.
Stakes £5O and Gate Receipts.
Distance, 20 Miles
The most novel, interesting, and exciting event
of the day.
THURSDAY, February 23,
the Greatest Carniral ever wßnessed.
BICYCLING, FOOTRACING, and SKATING.
GRAND LADY BICYCLE TOURNAMENT.
SKATING IN THE GARDEN PALACE.
ADMISSION, 2s. and Is.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM, BATHS,
and PLEASURE GROUNDS.
UNDOUBTED and BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of this
SUPERB BUILLI'JG
THE GREAT SWIMMING BATH, 100 ft LONG.
Finest colleotion of Fish and Seals in Australia.
ENTERTAINMENTS every AFTERNOON.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission Is.
\ Good Night's Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements,
Instruction given in the noblest of manly shorts
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the solenoe of self-defenoe,
Classes now open.
Whis m Sydwuy, if you miss Folby's you
HAVB MOT SIMM THB OIIY,
ROW’S
audios Sitters,
We recommend these BITTERB to be taken twi.
or three times a day 5 a winegiassful for an adult
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upoi
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov
Ing all Impure secretions than any other mediolna
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will flnf
these Bitters Invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day aftei
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. Foi
young people about half the quantity twice a day
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them moßt
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S, England,
Port Adelaide, Ootober 80 1886.
Gentlemen, —I have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s D anelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them,—
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 21, 1886,
Read an expression of thankfulness reoelved by
the undersigned i—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the ohest, general de*
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
R
EMBROCATION
3
SOLD
''EVERYWHERE
Row’s Steane’s Wine
is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex
or children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Row’s Steane’s Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. YOUNG. LADIES can take
this when suffering from general debility. It’s
only a pure tonic. Try it.
READ CERTIFICATE RESPECTING ITS
PURITY.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of ROW’S
4 STEANE”S ’ WINE, manufactured by Edward
Row and Company, I consider them a very whole-
some tonic, suitable for persons suffering from
weak digestion, being perfectly free from any in-
jurious chemicßs, too often used in such prepara-
tions. They should become a favorite drink in
these warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M'KILLOP, analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1884.”
Row’s Steane’s wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
TEETOTALLERS will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
Instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
TRY THEM.
HOTEL-KEEPERS ALL KEEP
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
R‘ W’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
SOLE PROPRIETORS,
Edward Row & Company,
11, 11, IT, QBOKGB-STREST, SYDNEY,’
A “respectable widow” advertises In
Sydney K. Nooze for “a husband, open a week."
At the end of that time, if he fails to turn up, she
will take a boarding-house.
Overheard iu The dress circle of Sydney
Theatre Royal. Rupert: “ Well, Bob, how did
this at.ernoon’s recep iou pais off ?” Bob: “Oh,
P"6 ty wad. Government House looked like a
registry-office."
Pastor Thomas Spurgeon, of Auckland,
N.Z —the original Spurgeon in London always
called himself “ Pastor,” and the term runs in
tee family now—committed matrimony the other
day. H a aocomplica was Miss Rutherford, of
Dunedin.
Henry Collier, the Melbourne pressman
(brother of George Collier, the actor), who died
the other day in Melbourne, had many reverses
and adventures In life. A quarter of a century
ago he was a reporter on the Age and dramatic
critic for the Leader (the weekly Age) under the
nom de plume of “ Autolycus.” Afterwards he
beca r e sub edit r of the Age, and later on of the
Evening Herald, Then tub, of the D.T., and
aftervraids a r-porter on the E,H. After this he
drifted off the press and became a railway gate-
keeper out CaulfleM way at 303. a week. He
then took a readership on the age, and died in
harness—or rather “reading" a galley of elegies
and epitaphs ftr the mortuary columns of the
paper. Harry was succ eded as gatekeeper by
Cornelius Mulcany, the county-court bailiff of 35
years standing, who, in years gone by, when
Collier “did” the county court, used to give Henry
queer paragraphs picked up in the course of his
business as a bum. One morning poor Con. Mul-
cahy was on the line when a train sneaked up un-
awares, and a few minutes later whan they went
to look for him he couldn’t be found. Some frag-
ments of a foxy beard were picked up on the per-
manant way, and that was all.
That dignified and decorous Victorian
Judge, the late Sir Redmond Barry, once had a
case before him In which plaintiff sought to re-
cover damages for injury to a flock of sheep by
the stampede of a mob of cattle. A very staid,
respeotable-looking sheep station-overseer was in
the witness box, and his appearance and manner
had quite taken the Judge’s fancy. In his usually
halting way, Michie, Q C., who was examining him,
put the question : “ Now, having had 20 years’
experience as a station-overseer, will you b3 good
enough to tell his Honor and the jury what the
effect would he o? a mob of cattle charging a mob
of sheep, as these cattle are described to have
done here ? ” Rep’ied the staid and pious looking
witness: “It would play h with them.’ 1
Had the reigning sovereign in Steal suddenly
presented himself in court the astonit hment could
not have been greater. Michie coughed behind
his hand, and M’Donald, the very open-vlsaged
court-crier, stuffed his “ wipe ’’ into his mouth,
while Barry, altro it choking with rage, roared
out: “ Sir, you must net imagine you are in a
stock yard now. You are in the Supreme Court
of this colony, and unless you v ery careful
you will And yourself ia the aijoining gaol.” The
witness humbly apologised.
The T. and C. Journal profesres to give
a biography of the w 11-known Australasian book-
sailer and publisher, George Robertson, but is
evidently not well posted in ihat enterprising
gentleman's career and the method by which he
managed to create the colossal business ha now
directs. Before he migrated to the big store in
Eiizabeth-st eet, Melbourne - next the old Age
office—G. R. had a Email thop in Collins-street,
immediately opposite the Argus office, and
acquired his great Australian reputation by simple
business tact and watchfulness, While ail the
old book-stores of Melbourne were crammed with
llteratare unsuitable to Australian readers and
shipped by agents who had never baen out of the
sound of “Bow Balls,” George’s London represen-
tatives were men who had gained exparlenoe
behind the Melbourne counter, and well knew
the wants of the colonists. After a service of
three years these s were recalled and their
places supplied with others from Australia ; thus
“dead” stock at stock-taking was an unknown
quantity. A few years ago G. R. brought his big
business under the Companies’ Act in £ shares,
but, finding he cou d not work it as advants geously
as when solely in his own hands, he bought up all
the shares at a premium, and is now sole owner
of the largest book business in the Southern |
hemisphere. j


Centrally
situated
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEADING
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELLS IMPERIAL
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
SOUTH
OF THE.
Hojn s
EQUATOR
£3
I
; !
i
iMil
HQTC
5D
- *r
IVniiiiiiiiiiiiii,
2KDANIELL
§!§
Bi
THEE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS &c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attachecl for the convenience of Ladies. Laflios’ Drawing-room, view of the Brisbane River
One-Tree Hill. Ladles’ and Bontlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths. 6 , CBIMmi/u, JUiui.
.n<l 8.. m, A.. lA««r. .»d T.l«r,n. »»'« A„rtm.»B "Ul ™.iv. »««*«•■•
C. H. BABIHUL
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
Victoria.
THE CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO,
la the most fashionable Spring, Autumn, and
Summer resort in the Colonies,
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladies Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every Convenience and Attention,
First-class Hotel Service. Accommodation for
200 Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Bal-
oonies, Baths. Beverages Iced.
Ck E, Sparing & to«
PROPRIETORS,
LATE OF
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
THE PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, Is the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEARING S
30 years’ experience as a Public Caterer is a
guarantee of the Comfort, Convenience, and Con-
sideration all Guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public
Baths. Alcock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony
out of Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter
Resort for Invalids,
J. 1 i Spring,
PROPRIETOR.
This BBEB
awarded at
Adelaide Bs-
hlbltloa Bibb*
Pbizk Gold M*das.
iloopsr Ik ilcLaod’s
India Pale
AS®.
ESDI ISTBTJRO-H:-
R. CUNYNGHAMK, Bond-street, Sydney.
la bulk
and case.
Beat BEER
la the Marked,
drawo by all
leading Hotels
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BBIGSTON OF TST_S_ W -
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers. Private Dinners, Evening Parties, &0., are
sSved on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of Che sea and surrounding country ;
hcre also vou can have good company, good wines- in fact, everything that can possibly make one
be found atthis really first-class hotel. Fishing and picnic parties provided. Table
de at 1 Sock daSy and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her visi-
torß comfort able, and her Hotel the best in the Colony, ____
MB' KILM W STER, Clarendon Hotel,
11 1 ' OPPOSITE OCEAN 8EA033 SSAHLT.
NEWEST INVENTION-GREATEST NOVELTY.
THK
PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM DORSET,
Patented in England and on the Continent-
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear
The Queen says —“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is eut on the cross,
and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain. They
are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workmanship all that could
b e desired.”
Gold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1882
Gold Medal, Highest Award
FOB. COBSETS, I.ONDO® II TEBNATIONAL EXHI
BITION, 1884.
atest Award!!! Gold Medal Internal
tional Exhibition, Edinbnrgh, 1880.
CAU IGN.—Beware of worthless iml
tatiunT. Every genuine Y & N Corset is
stamped “Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSKT No. 116," in oval.
BOLD BY AIL DRAPERS AND LADIES OUTFITTERS IN TNK UNITED KINGDOM AND COLONIES
TO PERSONS RESIDING IN THE COUNTRY
OR THE ADJOINING COLONIES.
If yon want anything In Sydney, Bend to
R. GIBBII feS & Co.,
A-O-THTSTTS,
OF
331 QEOR . STREIT.
SYDNEY.
all KINDS OF BUSINESS TRANSACTED AT
THE VERY LOWEST RATES.
The introduction of New Lines and Patents a
Speciality.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Bett kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes,
R. CLIFFORD,
CASTLKREAGH STREET.
CRITERION HOTEL, N ARRANDER A, N.S. W.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plnnge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train.
fiood Sample Rooms.
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sidney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel Is constructed on the most modern principles.
Large and well ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most centm, Hydraul Lift
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms cm each floor. Letters and telegra
receive prompt attention.
J. CURTIR, Proprietor.
BEAD
“The Uthgow Enterprise,
AND
“ Australian Land Rationaliser.
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW, N.S.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
IT is the authorised organ of the Land Nationalisation Association of New South Wales. Its
objeot is to firmly Inaugurate in Australia Henry George’s great schema of Land Reform to do
for these colonies what the Standard is doing for America It ha 3 , a mere widespread
HrmiiaHon than anv country nauer in the colony, and reaches nearly ev< “ p t • Wales.
It is smartly and fearlessly written, and every man who has the ii: ?> ;>1 h fellow-men at heart
ShJldSffS- and induce otimrs to do so. Everybody interes ed in this movement who does not al-
ready belong to the Association is requested to write to the editor.
THE SUBSCRIPTION IS—l2s. PER ANNUM.
AGENTS WANTED. LIBERAL TERMS GIVEN. SEND FG« SPECIMEN COPIEs.
THB GREAT TOJRaK ESTATE,
corner of Toorak and Glenferrie Roads, TOORAK,
WILL BE
SILD BY AUCTION
IN VILLA AND MANSION SITES
on SATURDAYS, 11th and 18th February next.
TERMS: 10 per cent, deposit; balance, 3,6, 12,
and 18 months at 6 per cent.
TITLE, CERTIFICATE.
Solicitor to the Estate:
W. H. LEWiS, Esq., 95 uollina-st W , Melbourne.
Surveyor:
LLOYD TAYLER. K q , 53 Little Collins-st. W„
Melbourne
Auctioneers in conjunction.
MUNRO & BAILLIRU, Collins-st, East.
k> S. TUCKRTT, Collins st West.
THOS. F. CUMMING, Corner of Collins and
William Streets.
J. J. BRENNAN, Grattan st,, Carlton.
From whom plans and all particulars can be
obtained.
The Hon. T. F. Cunningham, M.L.C., Austra-
lian Club, Melbourne, will purchase allotments on
receipt of instructions for country buyers who can-
not attend the sale at the lowest rates.
THE land is the best ever yet submitted by
subdivision around Melbourne, and it is
admittedly the acme and perfection of the most
fashionable, the healthiest, the most charming,
and the most romantic spot of Toorak, which, it
is needless to say, stands without a rival amongst
the suburbs of Melbourne. The Estate, which is
surrounded by Mansions, has a beautiful'y pano-
ramic view. For accessibility to the City the
Estate excels all other fashionable residential sites.
By road it is about miles from the Post-office;
by rail it is considerably less. The Glen Iris R it-
way branches off from Burnley, and after travel-
ling one mile and three-quarters reaches the Rail-
way Station to be erected on Mr. Ferguton’s pro-
perty at the Glenferrie-rcad. This St ition is two
minutes’ walk from the GREAT TOORAK
ESTATE. By rail the Ci y will ba reached fr m
your breakfast table comfortably in fiftes n
minutes. The Toorak Tram, now in course of
construction, will take you from the heart ot the
City to within eight minutes’ walk of the Estate
for Threepence, and the omnibuses from the Tram
Terminus to Malvern pass the Estate. Gas and
water laid on. Drags and Conveyances will meet
intending purchasers at South Yarra Station.
6t'ORB
Copyrighted.
„os;;a:ho Mid
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this j
»nd will doit on either bald'
head or bare face Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 ,f i
4 weeks and never fails, 2 0,000"
... young men already wear full ... _
beards, having used Ito 3 pkte. 2s o injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets , I#. 6d, each 3 for 3*. Vd., post paid D sent under
cover, free from Address* Frank Ucmglai 5 Sole Agent,
Box T3O P rO . Syfyoy, N A*' . ...
•fcFOftfi AFT.ua
Copyrighted,,
Everybody i
SHOULD USBJ
PEMELL’S
KXTRA SUPKKFIMH
TLOUEI
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
•a »Jfilli replete with the newest sad most approved
Nf*w PmoOK.” Maim wo**,
Cfefl PRICK la VmtY WW t assfl the QUALITY
IS GUARANTEED YSKY mOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
831 Gkorse-htrkckt, Sydney.
DR. TUKE, I.R.C.S,
England.
Send for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURE
for all Nervous Diseases; price, including post-
ages. 6d. in stamps. Dr. TUKE guarantees a
thorough and permanent cure in every case under-
taken, after consultation, by letter or in person.
Consultation costs nothing, and the Doctor will
tell you at onoe whether j ur case is curable or
not. Address—
Dr. TUKE, M.R.C.&, Eng ,
7 SprijiK-fst., Sydney.
TATTERSALL’S
monster nm um m
Are open upoa all the Prinoip 1 Racir g Events
th>ough.ut the Year. For full particulars see
“ T/wn and Country Journal,” abo Brevities in
* Evening News.” Address, “ Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, Tattersall s Hotel, Syuney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery;
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.


T IT AGAIN
Plain reading, but freighted with material,
solid meatiog.
Our successors have depended largely upon bole
essay and extraordinary eat-rpriae. No firm car
boldly declare prices unl.ss they feel thoroughly
that they mean business and are de ermined tc
give bargains that irake those who rtap ihj ad
vantages declare promptly and immediately : -
That they are estocished That they are
pleased That th°y are astounded. That the;
are gratified,
And can we do it ? Ah ! Can we do it ? Can
anyone else so ho'diy dec’are that they can bene
fit the public. That’s the important part of it
Well, we cm do it. We can benefit tne public
We can help them to benefit themselves. Anc
we recognise this important fact, that we cannot
hope to have tho encouraged business than has
been our blessed share unless we so'idly, clearly
and munis' akably give evidence cf our ability.
We have proved ourselves eminently superior to
a 1 ! competitors in the many special departments
upon which we have ventured. And we aek—
Who can sell Furniture with us ?
Who can sell Upholstery w th us?
Who cau sell Bedsteads with us ?
Who can sell Bedding with us ?
Who can sell Ironmongery with us ?
Who can sell Glassware with us ?
Who can sell Chinaware with us?
Who can tell Mlec roplt ted Ware with us ?
Who can sell bar then ware with us ?
Who can Eell Carpets with us ?
Who can se 1 Drapery with us ?
Who can sell Underclothing with us ?
Who can sell Corsets and Gloves with ns
Who can sell Linens with us?
Who can ssll Clothlrg with us ?
Who can SiII Hats with us?
Who can sell Mercery with us ?
Who can sell Gen<s.’ Underclothing with us?
Who can sell Clothes with us ?
Who can sell Boots with us ?
Who can se 1 Shoes with ns ?
Who can sell Laces with us ?
Who can sell Boys’ Boots with us ?
Who oan sell Boys’ Trousers and Vests withus?
Who can sell Youths’ Clothes with us ?
Who can giva better value than we ?
And perhaps in this last line the kernel of the
commercial nut may be found cent-ed.
WELD, HERE IS THIS SECRET ! - Content with
small profits, knowing that we must sell cheap,
WE ARE BOUiSD TO DO OUR LEVEL BEST
TO KEEP OJR&ELVES BEFORE THE
PUBLIC ; and keep before them vte will, if the
very heavens should fall.
BEDS ISADS—
When in the public press it is notic’d that LAW-
LERS’ have a sale on, then let tbe Lord help all
essayists for the days of profits are numbered.
Holding 27,000 Bedsteads and Cots in |
stock, there is no firm in this or the old I
world can turn out eo many bedsteads of |
a kind as we can.
Last October we were deluged with country
customers requesting our bargain parce’s. Tne
town and suburbs were at it from neon till night.
The nine vans were as busy bees delivering north,
routh, east and west AND W3B Because w
offered bargains like the following IN BED
STEADS: We essayed and submitted immens
Four-post a-d Half tester Tabular Double Bed
steads, together with wove wire mattress, togethe
with hair mattress, together with hair bolster
together with two feather pillows, and we swor
we’d let the lot go as ounding as the value is
we swore w e'd let the lot go at £6 12s. 6i., a -
though worth £lO 17s. 64 , the same lines.
Our immense assortment of - bedsteads, th
numerous styles, the various s zes, preclude
clear statement of liues, but the lot afore salt
clearly proves our ability to show marvellou
value throughout the house Rem amber, we d
not choose a claptrap line to endeavour to prov
value. We went straight away for one of ou
best lines and quoted it at our lowest price.
We would be v. anting in onr generosity to
single men were we to omit to quote the follow
log extraordinary lines :
Single Bedsteads, either half-tester or four-post
Palliasses for sama.
Heavy Flock Mattre?s for same.
Flock Bolster aid Kapok Pillow.
The lot for £2 7s. 61., well worth £2 12s.
This f ale is meant to be another of onr SPECIAL
THINGS, so that we must touch furai u<e Anc
in touching furniture we would quote speoia
lines :
Chests of Drawers for instance, 255., 355.,
17s. 61.
Wardrobes, with glass doors, £5 15s. to £7 15s.
Couches in oretonne, 27s 61., 355.
Eugene Cou r hBP, in cretonne, 755, 85s.
Haircloth Couches, 473 6d , 65s , 755.
Dlnlng-tab'e3, 14s. 61.. 20.-\ 25s , 355.
Whilst in Carpets and Eloarcloths we say “ facile
priiceps” yet to back ns out iu oar venturesome
statement we mu it q iote prices. To get Tapestry
Carpe’s at a low and reasonable price and to give
satisfaction at li. 61. is one of those things that
few are able to do We do ir. We do it. We do
ib. And we cm sell Carpels at Is. 3d. to 4s. 64.
a yard.
BOOTS and SHOES. - Nobody like 3 boots to
wear out in a hurry. A ll a*e anxious that they
should stand a sole or two at any rate. Everyone
Wjnts style and finish. To get style and finish
and boots i hab will wear w 11 you must experi-
ment St. Crispin' himself might essay with
boots, but unless he had wo n them himself how
would he succeed i We experiment upon our
own boots. Employer aid employees try the
different makes with a view to finding out WHO’S
WHO. Ani as a result we can njw cell Boots and
Shoes that will please and gratify all. We have
Gents’ Boots at Bs. 61. ihat are worth 12s. 61
We have Gents’ Shoes at 6s. 94. that are worth
10s. 64.
We have Ladies' Shoes at ss. 61., 6s. lid., Bs.
lid., 10s. 64,
We have Ladies'Boots at 6s. 114., Bs. 64,, 10s
64., 163. 61.
We have Youngsters’ Boots and Shoes at ali
prices.
We have Men’s Boots at 16s. 61., worth 253.
Ladles’ Underclothing demands skill and atten
tlon ; both are possessed and enjoyed at LAW
LERS.
Gloves all styles at all prices. Corsets that will
fit and give satisfaction. Thimbles, and Cotton
and Needles Prints and Zephyrs, and Mervel-
leux for dresses.
During FEBRUARY an ASTONISHING SALE
Buy or nob as you thiDk fib.
L A. 'W' LERB’.
608 Q-BORGHi STBS HIT
m
m,
NOTICE.
PASSENGERS WILL
EXPECTORATE INTO
THE APPARATUS
NOT IC t
SENG6R.S
WIU
expeo-orate
NTO
THE
APPARATUS
PROVIDED.
PROVIDED
r\
iSgfej
■v-
%
*
«=n
THE SYDNEY TRAMS.
A CENTENNIAL INNOVATION.
Complaints having been made by ladles that their dresses are constantly being expectorated
upon by the occupants of the hurricane-decks of the Sydney tram car i, a scheme is here suggested
which will prevent any further repetition of such occurrences, and, at the same time, help to
bring about that long-desired consummation, the laying of the dust in front of the motor. The
subject, though not a nice one, nevertheless, requires immed'a e attention.
Sir C. G. Daffy is writing a biography of
his friend and co-founder of the Nation, Thomas
Davis, who died 40 years ago. Davis was a young
Protestant barrister, who suddenly burst forth as
a poet and essayist, and died at the age of 32 from
a cold caught after a sculling-matoh. A life siz8
marble s'atue of Davis by Hogan stands over his
grave in the Mount Jerome Cemetery, Dublin,
Officeholders.
The office held by the kidneys is one of import-
ance. They act as nature's sluice-way to carry
off the extra liquids from the system and with
them the impuri ies both tho3e that are taken
into thg stomach and those that are formed in the
blood Any clogging or inaotion of these organs
is therefore important. Ur bell’s bitters ar@
nature’s efficient assistant in keeping the k;d. eys
in gocd working order, strengthening them, and
inducing healthy action. It you would get well
take dr, bell’s biiters
The Chinese in Victoria.—Oamany of the sheep-farms
and sugar plantations, Chinamen rre employed to ass'sk, and
the faith that the inhabitants of the F,o wery Land have in
(he virtues of Freeman's Genuine Chlorodyne may be in
ferred from the fact that most of the sheep-owners and
planters order one hundred and twenty dozen of Freeman
Chlorodyne at a time for the use of John Chinaman and ihe
other employes A gentleman, in writing to Mr Freeman,
fays — ‘I have much pleasure in testifying to the excellent
curative pr perties of your Chlorodyne in many diseases
daring many years residence in New Zealand. I have given
it repeatedly and always with good effect, both on
Europear s and Celestials, and have never found it fail to
give relief after two or three doses.”—Sold everywhere
throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having “ Freeman’s ”
< nly Reject substitutes as they are worthless. Trade
M ark, a a Elephant *
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-street Arcade.*
A Lovely and Delicate Complexion.—This is ob-
tainel by using Rowlands Kalydor, an > mollient and
harmless milk for the face, ham's, a< d arms; it remove? sur-
oum, taa, freck es redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c , and produces soft, fair, and deli-
cate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which ruin
the skin. Rowland ,s Odonto, a non-grittv tooth powder,
whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’ ar tides.*
HOW TO GET SICK.
Expose yourself day and night, eat too much without
rxercfse; work too hard without rest; doctor all the time:
take all the vile nostrums advertised; and then you will
want to know
HOW TO GET WELL
Which is answered in a few words—Take Dr. Soule's Ameri-
an Hop Bitters! f ee other co umn.—“ Express.”
Chlnete Consuls are to be appointed to
Australia. This will necessitate the introduction
of chop sticks at State banquets.
The Quakers of Wales are a dreadfully
moral crowd. A party of them have deputa-
tionised the authorities regarding a soap-manu-
facturer who st'cks up bills representing two
females washing a naked baby.
13 IT POSSIBLE
That a remedy made ofsuch commjn, simple plants ssHops,
Bu.hu, Mandrake, Dandelion, , make so many and such
mar.eltoi.s and wi nde ful cures as D\ Soule's American
Hop Bittern do ? It must be, for when old and young, rich
and poor, Past*- r and Doctor, Lawyer and Editor, all testify
to having been cured by them, we must believe them, and
doubt no longer. See other column.—“ Post/’
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects,
Simplein application—su?eln effect. This is the only genuine
Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to all kinds
of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal life, and
therefore may be used without the slightest apprehension
For the extermination of Mosquitos especially, the Insecti-
cide has no equal—as the fumes of the burnt powder, while
throwing off a pleasant odour, are at the same time most
dest. uctive to them. Sold in Is. boxes by all chemists and
storekeepers. Manufactured only by W. Williams,
Pharmaceutics! Chemist, 257 King-street, Newtown. Wh jle-
sale from Mcbs-s Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser & Co.*
Gloomy forebodings, Sleeplessness, Violent Headaches,
Nervous Irritability, and Heart Palpitation all arise from a
disordered Liver, and natures owa remedy is secured in
Dunstone’s Compound Essence of Dandelion and
Liver Pills. Instant relb f, and speedy and permanent
cure. Pleasing to the taste. Is also a certain remedy f
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and JLumb .go. Wrapped with
each bottle are copies of testinooDia's which witlc nvince the
moat sceptical. D rnstone s C mpound E sence of Dande-
lion, 53. p'r bottle; Liver Pills, Is. prr box. Wnolesale
agents : Elliott Bros., Lid , Sydney.
Food f jr Consume nv »s.—Scott's Emulsion of Pure
Cod Liv <r Oil with Hypopiiosphites of Lime and
Soda, is a most wonderful food for the Consumptive It
not only gives sbengtn and increases the flesh, but heals
the irritation of the throat and lungs. It is very palatable;
< hildren take it iike milk, and in all wasting diseases both
f r adults and children it is a marvellous food and medicine.
Any Chemist can supply it at 4s. 64.*
Dr. tsell’s (Kidney and Liver) Bitters
Are no “ hit or mi •s’’ compound or old womtn's
mixture They are prepared by a scientific phar-
macist, with a full knowledge of the powers and
virtues of each ingredient ia the class of diseases
which it cures It is purely vegetable, and can-
not harm the youngest child or the most feeble
invalid.
&2
#0
Ti]
file
LARGEST
in the (olony.
28 & 30
BRIDGE STTCVriNFY
WORKS 227*229 GEORGE STT UIM 11 1 V
w
3EFORK TAKING.
(ritOM urf.)
" a *ner y heart doeth good like a Medicine. *—Proverbs 17-c, 22-v.
CAUNT’S PHOSPHORIZED'IRON QUININE TONIC.
“ REGISTERED,"
Contains all the elements essential to produce health, and
the only preparation which supplies the tissues with
food It has no equal. It feeds the Brain, Blood
Nerves, Cures Diseases of all kinds, Invigorates the
Mind and Muscles, Imparts strength to the Body, Restores
the wasting lRe to activity and vigor, makes the feeble
strong, and produces an exhilarating effect upon the
whole syßtem, Removes errors in eating and drinking.
Price 3a. 6d., from all respeotable Chemists, or sent
direct from the Manufacturer, W, F. CAUNT, the
Pharmacy, Camperdown, Sydney.
Beware of Imitations. Take no Substitute,
m*
AFTER TAKING,
(non ur*.'
T> HEUMATISM VANISHES BEFORE IT
In proof whereof the Glasgow Herald, of
October 15, 1887, cites the following cases
Mr. Edward Petemm, electric light engineer, of
3G, Whetstone Pork, London, W.C., says:—
“ Thera can be no two opinions respecting the
value of St. Jacobs oil as a rheumatic remedy. I
was so completely used up with rheumatism in
my arms and shoulders that I was unable to at-
tend to my business. I was advised by a friend
to use St. Jacobs oil. A few good rubbings with
that famous oil drove all pain away from me. I
never saw anything like it.”
For four months Miss Marion Clifford, of the
Golden Cross, Porter-street, Hull, lay in bed with
inflammatory rheumatism. Her feet and ankles
were badly swollen, and her sufferings were in-
tense, no treatment affording any relief, until St.
Jacobs oil was applied, when a complete cure was
at once effected.
Mrs. G. Angold, 7 Maude read, London, was
afflicted with chronic rheumatism for four years.
She found no relief from medicines, atd was in-
duced to use St. Jacobs oil. One application re-
duced the swelling of the ankles atd knees, and
two more applications removed all pain.
Mr. Henry John Brrlow, of i Staples Innbuild-
ings, Holborn Bars, London, W.C., says:—“Re-
cently, during rainy weather, I contrasted a very
severe cold by wetting my feet, which resulted in
rheumatism in my feet and legs, which became so
bad that I was hardly able to walk. Learning
from a friend the value of St. Jacobs oil, I had a
bottle procured, the contents cf which applied
with several rubbings removed all rheumalio pain
atd completely cured me,”
y TBE PUNISHMENT FIT THE CRIME.
The man who buys an expensive watch
While he is in debt for board,
With its second hand split and a top to it
And a jib and a centreboard,
When a Waterbury would do him as well—
And suit his stato to a T,
The risk must faoe cf a cabled place
In the ranks of Michael and G.
And be made a Justice of the Peace,
Or a Governor’s A.D.C.,
For ha never may know the extent of the woe
M hich blasts his family tree.
And he who never will carry a watch
That hasn't a golden case
Must love fer ,:f -> an old, old wPe,
With a youtohiiul. patntrd f <o.
The man who tells you a Waterbury
Takes far too long to wind,
Must day after day hear an organ play
That only one tune can grind ;
And he who thinks that he can’t afford
A watch when he knows our price,
Away down belo «v he will have to go
To a place where they can’t keep i ’e.
mm
mm
Iff®
1
i
■
SSffaS
i
■ .1.1
A
BOUT THAT SOAP.
“And she went into the garden to out a cab
bage-leaf to make an apple-pie, and a great she
bear coming up tie street poked h's heal into the
shop-window, and said : ‘ What! No Cashmere
Bouquet Soap 1 ’"
The most exquisite Toilet Soap in the world.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers in Perfumery.


o
ACCORD itONG, ac 7 /B, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-. 17/6, 21/<
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6,
Speciality 1 Patent steel noted Acoordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
„ Patent German Silver Reeded Ac*
oordeon, double bellows, SO/-,
NOTICE
THEE 3 01ST31i3r
MUSICAL IISTICMEIT
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
@74
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
to return thanks to their num' rous
patrons and friends for past favours,
and, at the same time, to inform them that
on the
Ist. OF MARCH
They will remove to more commodious
premises,
8 DOORS FROM PRESENT ADDRESS,
Where they hope by kind and proper atten-
tion and with a new and complete stock of
Instruments and Fittings, to be favoured
with your patronage.
OUR
NEW ADDRESS
WILL BE
5 Doors from Liverpool-street.
1)6, 6/6, 7/6, 0/6. 10/6, 12/6, 16/-, 17/6, 21/*, 26/-,
30/-,. 85/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Laohenal Anglo German ... ... 35/-
„ „ steel notes ... ». 50/
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O,
pedalty 1 Old copy Violin, with case, Bow
Strings, Resin and Tutor for SO/-.
LOOK at P AST and FUTURE
advertisements in
“Ihe Bulletin.”
Brass and Drum and Flfa Bands
furnished throughout.
higgkr minstrel troupes PITTED out.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
Hie colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
5#
_Ecr«m» on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
******
Scrofula on Neck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tion*, Itching and Burning Skin Torture*,
Loathsome Sore*, and every specie* of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Sealp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resobvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Bealp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.’’
Australian Consignees,
K. Towns & Co., New South Wales,
CUTICURA RESOLVED , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hencs
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically-
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifies 1
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
<U throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Hew
ZcJinud. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1 , )0 ; Cuticura Soap, 25 oents; Cuticura Shav-
ino Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by tkb
Potter Urag & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTRUCTIONS FREE.
LICHTStSIR and Co.,
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
IN calling attention to their extensive stock of Photographic Instruments, Chemicals, and all
necessary appliances for the use of Professional and Amateur Photographers, beg to intimate
their intention of giving FREE LESSONS in the Seductive Art to all purchasers of a Photographic
outfit at their warehouse. The services of a competent operator have been secured, and beginners
are now relieved from all anxiety about possible failure. The young are hereby protected from pre-
mature baldness, and the middle-aged from despair. .
Cameras
By all the beat makers from £3 upward, according to size and quality.
Lenses
Bearing all the best English and Continental Brands.
Sift Titters
Of every description, including the famed “GUERRY,” the best all round shutter
in the world.
THE VERGARA. PATENT FILMS AND SLIDES IN ALL STANDARD SIZES.
NOVELTIES BY EVERY MAIL.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
LICHTNER & CO„
32 O’CONNELL STREET.
‘MASGJS iSiiOTJilsiito,
LIMITS^
S§GB to 239 Kent-Street,
Sydney,
Hare always in STOCK, for
SALS to the TRADE m 3
WHOLSSALS RUIKBS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
©LASS, CHINA,
Atm
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AMD SPIRITS
and general
SULK MERCHANDISE
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORXN and OC. &
Cognao.
T. $ A YEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva,
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Palo Ale.
M
0 Iff U M H M *
In Oranlte, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailing!.
Designs end estimates forwarded on reaves
a. coKnsnctEL&£3 9
a«JJtm-siraM, TOrzrirAKD-*«tMua>i Btbmbv
W"E can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon aa the beat In Brisbane,
fobanee and cigars of the beat brands, Address I
Twuplt Building «i dr'or* from
Qu>»ns-esr*i»fc nouFKR, Pv«»rlet*F.
of^ydneiji
JCNOLAN UVES.BLte.MOUNTAINS,*
BI6IIEQBCE SI jtnmK HuNTCiSr^CP.O*
JAY'S PaiKOr OP WALE HOTEL,
ST. T ILDA.
THIS first class Hotel offers superior accommoda-
tion to visitors and residents, being in a healthy
and central position, fronting the Bay, near Es-
planade and Baths, and within five minutes’ walk
of the St. Kilda Railway Station Private suites
of apartments. Ladles’drawing room. Gentlemen’s
smoking-room. Hot and cold baths without
extra ohartrs
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a speoial study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. Y, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
The science of life, 1
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 300 pages*
bound in cloth, and oontalns over 100 preserlp
Mona, Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
■ample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Addresß I Doctor W. F.
Parker Past Office Chan bee*. «nmr Oc k u.-d
0 -~*s*t*. diihean.l, Vie.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLETBRERO
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O'CONNELL STREETS.
E . W„ TON AND LAMB.
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and TONING CHAIRS, al
to match. NEWTON AND LAMB
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CFAIR
Patented.
:
— =<
m
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. Wo can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
Packin in canvas, if required 2s. 6d.
D
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up
holstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &o. NEWTOST & LAMB.
ALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTA
WRITING DESKS, of varl
ons sizes, fitted with Shelves.
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid*
ing Trays, Stationery Draw>
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Reoeptaoles for
Stamps, and Ru er and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided Into compart»
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Lock a
automatically. One of the most useful commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
no
D
RAWING ROOM OA
NETS,
EARLY ENGLISH
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
NEWTON AND LAMB.
Large stock of pianofortes by the
MO. 3. CELEBRATED MAKERS
A USTRIAN BENT-
WOOD FURNITURE.
A VERY COMPLETE
ASSORTMENT.
Many quite new designs.
NEVTONand LAMB >
EASY CHAIRS 2ar Parionsc, Library, 0* Bee ■
rooms. N«w flualxn* hot era! tn eidlF Ik
»ay material- NEWTON & LAM b
Self-adjusting chair ansi couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN,
OCRING SASIC an<l mat
Ini, a apeoialty, NAWTON & LAMB.
f>«DSS*ADB, all llisi
Mlokel-plated and Blatk
and Bean. Breat variety.
Bedding,—AU descriptions at
lowest rates.
NEWTON & LAMB.
SFBINB MATTEASSB
wotbb Wf»s, beat
£»kn | also, Spiral Esrins •
Frio*. Iran* taau sac**,
(IHSAP FURNITURE.—Pins Tables, irons
j 13a. 6d. t Dining Tables, from 30a. j KLtohtn
Dreaaera, from 375. 6d.j Washstanda, from 13e. 6d.|
Cheats of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.: Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.: Csdar Side*
boards, from A3 loSi| Clothes Horses, from IQs. fid.
Writing Tables, ryith drawers, from SQa.
KWTON AND LAMP.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
BH9 W ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING * OOONNBLL STREETS


“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. Ascot
Vale Stakes, run Maroh 3rd. The Sydney Cup
run Easter Monday, April 2nd. Each 3000 sub-
scribers, 20 s. each. First horse, £1,500; second,
£6OO ; third, £3OO ; starters, £3OO ; non-starters,
£3OO, divided amongst them. Tne Australian
Jockey Club Plate run April 7th, 1888. 3000
subs., 10s. each. First horse, £7OO ; second,
£200; third, £100; starters, £150; nonstarters,
£l5O, divided amongst them. Also one hundred
cash awards of £2 each Please apply early,
and regis rar all letters to ensuce safe delivery.
Address, “Australia," care of Mr. H. Dalveen,
Victoria Caf6 Hotel, George-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.*
Dr. Oanny, late Surgeon Royal Artillery and H.M. 11th
Regiment, L.R.0.P.. LM , M.R O S., England. Registered
in Great Britain and N.S. W. 61 Wentworth Oourt Cham
bers, Elizabeth-Btreet (ground floor). Specialist in Diseases
of the Liver Kidneys, 4c. Dr. Canny's long service in the
Tropics, 4o has afforded him special experience in the
treatment the above mentioned diseases.*
The Referee.
Rather a rapid change In Sydney D.T.’a
opinion on glove-fighting took place last week :
Friday, the 10th, says,
in speaking of the
coming Foley Burke
match:—
It is provided that they
shall fight ‘ to a finish," the
plain English of which is that
the two men will batter each
other about until one or other
drops exhausted rr incapaci-
tated. In other words it is
to be a prize-fight with lightly
padded gloves.
Saturday, the 11th,
enthusiastically says:—
A good programme of box-
ing events Is arranged for
decision at Foley’s to-night,
and some splendid sport is
promised. The principal item
is a fight to a finish between
Smith*is and Donaldson, and
as rumour says both have
been in training for some
time, a stubbornly-contested
engagement may be antici-
pated. [The italics are ours ]
And wbat the D T. is with regard to prize-fighting
it is with regard to everything else under the sun.
* * *
The latest shark-stories are to the effect
that the Poit Jackson and Grafton sharks have
taken to chasing wager-bcats—this, no doubt, with
the view of putting down “champion” sculling
by third class scullers. The otter day Burke, the
fighting-man, was out in a wager-boat at Grafton,
and was pursued by a monster which followed
him into shallow water and bit his boat when he
abandoned it. Sculler Nelson, while out pulling
near Ryde, Parramatta River, a little while ago,
was followed by a big shark which amused itself
the winner of the first champion race on the
Flemington (Vio.) course In 1859, Flying Buck,
owned by W. C. Yuille and ridden by the boy
Yeend, long afterwards did duty as a cab-horse in
the city of Melbourne.
* * *
Mons. Victor suggests that a cricket-match
between the athletes and bookmakers of Mel-
bourne would be interesting. There is a certain
amount of melancholy truth in this. Lots of
weak-minded youths would sit around a cricket
ground all day on the off-chance of seeing a
bloated leviathan get a full-toss fair in the waist-
coat.
* * #
Poor Billy Bates, who received such a
terrible crack in the eye from a stray practice
ball, Is returning to England in the hope of being
able to play next season. Luck go with the
cheery pro. !
* * *
The secretary of a Northern (Q.) Jockey
Club has been dismissed for declining to account
for a deficiency in bis caßh. He can have the
cake by calling at this office.
• * «
The men who know everything say that
before Kemp’s match with Clifford a trial spin was
rowed on the Nepean between Beach, Kemp, and
Neilson, the two former allowing Neilson the start
he is to get from Hanlan in their forthcoming
match. They never caught Neilson, and Beach
It —raoes at Caulfield ?" Second ditto: ‘‘Yes—
why is it a public holiday?” First ditto: “ Oh,
centenary of something, aint it ? What is it the
centenary of?" Second Sport (after due cn-
sldera'ion): " Ob, I know-it must be the cen-
tenary of the Caulfield Club.” Exeunt satisfied.
* * *
The S.M. Hera.ld cricket man describes
Hiddleston as an “ indifferent field." Yet Hiddle-
ston’s fielding in late matches fairly brought down
the house.
* * *
Melbourne Football Association has re-
fused to patronise the English team coming out
next year, the object bei g to discourage profes-
sional football Bad luck fcr the Britishers, who
look to Melbourje for the gate money.
* * *
Can Jack Burke —the Irishman, and not
American—contradict the statement that Ktlrain
fought recently with Godfrey, the caloured cham-
pion of America and has not been ‘‘cut” on that
account by the white fighters ? People whisper
that had Black Jackson been a nine s one fighter
Burke would have waived the matter of colour
and taken off his bell topper and long-tea ed coat.
* * *
Those who paid a sovereign and half-a-
sovereign a head to see the “ champion ” sculling
match between Clifford and Kemp on Saturday
got poor value for their money. Race it could
expenditure, and when he hears of the exorbitant
sums charged for the use of and admission to tftb
people’s own ground, and that the moneys re-
ceived are expended on bars, billiard-tables. &c.,
for the select few, he will probably do something.
* » *
A Sydney sporting paper claims for pugi-
list Fogarty an unbeaten record. This is not so.
Fogarty was once knocked out by Amateur Seale.
* * *
If Mr. Tom Garrett is to be faked into the
next Aus* ralian Eleven, there will be at least one
passenger in the team.
* * *
Some leading Australian amateurs are de-
manding extravagant expenses for the “ home "
tour.
* * *
Kenny is willing to swim u Cavlll, but the
challenger hangs fire.
* * *
Larry Foley, judging from the present
vacuum under his waistcoat, seems in earnest
about his coming affair with Burke.
* * *
Aaer'cin man Costello undertook the
task of knocking out Amateur Seale in Sydney in
six rounds, the other evening, but failed to do it.
Had Seale been In good condition he might have
reversed the order of things by knocking out
For the Term of His Natural Life.
1.—•“ Spare me ! ’ cried the Fair-Haired Victim. “ I
will not! ” hissed the Deep Dyed Villain.
“ You are spare enough already."
2 —And he plunged the dagger into his bosom." The Fair-
Haired Victim smiled at the wit- but died all
the same.
3.— No, 46,941, to whom the Deep-Dyed Villain explained the
joke, in a painstaking manner, also smiled at the wit,
bub said that what he couldn’t overlook was the irony.
He took the Deep-Dyed ’Un in charge
4, — The Defence set up by Counsel was that the pun was a chestnut * which could be proved by flies of the Evunoosk. But the judge rightly ruled
that a pun ipse facto was an aggravation of what might otherwise have been the result of a mere outburst of a hasty temper, and therefore
pardonable. *Legal Term for Old Joke.
5.—“ Inasmuch as to whyfore,” said he,
adjusting his black-cap, “ I
shall impose the extreme penalty
of the law. I sentence yon,
prisoner, to ride in the tramway
from Bridge-street to Waverley,
and return once a day for the
term of your natural life, and
may the Lord have mercy on
your soul."
by dodging about under his wager-boat. As
sharks are becoming so civilised we shouldn't be
at all astonished to hear at an early date of
one leaving the water, walking up King-street,
Sydney, and starting business in Wentworth
Court. Of course we don’t mention in what line
of business.
* * *
In his tirade against gambling, Parson
Fitchett, of Melbourne, said bookmakers should
wear sackcloth. Well, they do adopt strange
costumes, but this would be a novelty. Imagine
a penitent of the Middle Ages roaring out: “ Ten
to one, bar two. I’ll back the field."
• * *
When a certain “ sport ” honoured Lord
and Lady Carington by Introducing them to the
water-god, Bill Beach, he is alleged to have said :
“ Grip fins with Bill, my Lady. There ain’t no
pride about him—he’ll let you.”
• * *
Jack M‘Elhone wants to put down boxing
In Sydney. He says that Larry Foley Is making a
pile out of bloodshed. This dignified indictment
of violence comes well from Jacky M’Elhone, who
Is all talk and no fight.
* * *
The old grey charger that carried the late
N.B.W. Inspector General of Police, Captain
M’Lerle, for many years and in many a bloodless
encounter, is now doing duty In a Waterloo
<N.S.W.) delivery-van. Which reminds us that
could not shake Kemp off. If this is true, Mr.
Haulan will have a merry time in his matches
against Neilson and Kemp. All the same, if the
form shown by Kemp against Clifford was any
guide, Hanlan can beat either of them “ the
length of a street.”
* * *
The other day a Southern sport, who Is
awake so early in the rtorning that he is supposed
to get up overnight, took a fancy to buy a certain
racehorse. He went to the owner, and they
agreed about the pries, but the owner said that
he wanted to run the horse in a certain race for
which he was entered, and that he would deliver
him after that race. The buyer did not want the
horse to win that raoe, as it would spoil his chance
In future handicaps, but being a very smart man
he raised no objection, and even offered to let his
own jockey ride the horse. The owner
agreed, and the boy was put on, and, accord-
ing to the seller, never gave the horse a
chance to win—pulled his head off, in faob. Then
the owner saw the dodge and refused to deliver,
and all parties are calling one another nasty names.
* # *
They say that Tommy Horau has decided
to call himself Ho-ran, out of oompliment to the
Cardinal.
• * *
The following conversation between two
sporting men was actually overheard in a barber’s
shop in Melbourne, on January 26 (Anniversary
Day). Firsto Sport t “ Public holiday to-day, ain’t
scarcely be called, as Kemp got a length to the
good at the start and leisurely Increased it up to
the winning-post. Clifford rowed hard from
start to finish, but he was too slow at the start
of the stroke to put any life into his craft, and it
was with a heavy drag of his broad bladed
sculls that he pulled the stroke through. His
preliminary spurt was rather taking, but when
the procession started, in comparison with Kemp,
it was seen that his Herculean strength was
thrown away, and his boat went through the
water as If she had a kerosene-tin nailed to her
bottom. Kemp’s style, in contradistinction to
Clifford s, is full of life and grace and is so free
of labour that even when at his best he does not ap-
pear to the onlooker to be rowing hard. Should
Kemp and Hanlan come together, however, we
shall go for the Canadian. Allowing Kemp is as
fast as Hanlan —which the writer does not con-
sider him to be—the Australian has hitherto
shown that when pressed he drops across a weak
Spot, and Hanlan, by the desperate race he rowed
Beach on the Nepean, looks a likely man to find
that weak spot out.
* * *
The result of the recent cricket match
played in Melbourne would Imply that the Vies,
can have but a small say in the Combined Team.
* * *
Sydney Association Ground trustees have
at last overreaohed themselves in not allowing
that band-contest to come off on the ground.
Parkes has called for particulars of revenue and
Costello. Seale all through fought at a great dis-
advantage owing to a painful foul blow being
unintentionally struck by Costello in the second
round.
Ives, the deadhead colleague of Parkes in
the representation of Sb. Leonards, contributed 10
guineas to the latter's breadless ’ome fund. This
is a beastly small sum considering that Ives
sneaked into the ’Ouse under 'Eary’a coat-tails.


MmMMMM BMa&L, Mimm m OCX,
mOMMOMGMMB,
MAOHOOEEY MMECHASTfe
SSI &MQBBM STREET, STDEMY,
;ii
*
aPKOIALIXIISS
HW lawlig KaoUse, UratH nn-pnar Pint, Alba Outai Ugkt
KLBOTKO'E'LATBD WAXI, OUTLBKX, 10014
•AS OOOCXMe BTOVK8 i—UWNIS VLBTOIKKK'B. JSAWB * WALKXR I
■RAOi’OMUa WASMIIIB MACKIWBB, «tt.. *»i
COMPOUND
F DANDELION
13 A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Liver and Eidiey Dimitri
11
Read testimonial wrapped wrh each bottle and you will be convinced.
TONE’S LIVER PILLS act as a vaiuabl < aperient and tonic in conjunction with
the DANDELION ES3SNCE.
’S ESSENCE OF DANDELION, ss. per Bottle LIVER PILLS, Is. per
Box. Of all Chemists.
Resale Agents, Messrs EL lOTT 8R03., Ltd.
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
White and sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gi ms, and delight-
fully fragrant breath can best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powders and acid washes
*na using daily
P r Pearl Dentifrice, & white powder composed of the most recherche ingredients of the Oriental
end warranted free from any gritty or deleterious 1: ” ‘ " ’ ’
ingredients; it whitens and preserves
■** - ' .a r'
Pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay as a pure and
a °n-gritty toot! powder: such HOWLANDS’ ODQNTO.has always proved itself.
<• No other'Odonto is genuine.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL „
and golden-haired people and children.
ROWLANDS’KALYDOR beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneous
fair
now sold in a golden colour for
. iiUWLHfSUO AHLIDUR beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneous
defects, and renders the skin soft, smooth and delicate. Ask anywhere for HOWLANDS'
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid spurious and pernicious imitation^
(so Usuuaii age<i<* »ss«m.. and It. r-««■ a «*■<., Hp o*l*l
OOTs
T, WILLIAMS ft GO.,
IHrOIIIBB Of
Bmttsh & Fornax Boots & Bbois ;
Alio IftftnMtMtferMll Of mm m*
turn Wmwn QuAim o» Qoodi » *b» abovh Linm,
878 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
MOHS
HOE
CQLLINS-PLACE, COLLIN -STREET EAST,
v (NEaB MELBOURNE CLUB)
tors, Cuisine Perfeot, Private Sitting Booms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513,
MRS. M. COLPS, Proprietress.
S.». k. w
Oh r. we to
«m »,* '***** ontß of N<&?
*SJ* iPS^Wfe-e. ,fcfc A
•** i/. fcf-*
in the '■ UUH't &MU
*»»*<}; onre of Nervoue l>*
tmint OOP* Of tniß
* rßt •e*lefl. to* ala pecs*}
** ft 00.
“fdnej Pharmacj,
** dnnt«)t.atrosli.. Arfttuk»..
800 a water
w» kStib ci.,
PtttU, £u»rJi«d,
8T DM■ fi
hot sea-water baths.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny's Baths, St. Kilda core Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De
pression oi St it its, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Fains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and its after effects.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
simply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
a Blowing In every Family
Hollow av's fills and ointmcnt,
Ihert a not a country In the clvlllaed wot Id when
the healing virtues of tfctat grand medicine* have not been
rtcognlutd by thoutanda of aufiuen.
In all the ordinary ailment* of humanity tbeit beneficent
action it at once recognited.
lullett directiont an luiy.lieo tor tbeir tin in evtry dlteait,
11 VOl’ BtJBlbR. TITS THEM
Stauniactuud only at 71 Raw Ojioed-61., London.
MF Purchautr* ahonld look to the Label on the Boxea and
tou. If the addreat i* not it) Oxicrd-atrMl London. tbM
are morion*.
PHF BANS OF NEW ZEALAND.
Stdrit Bkanohbs t
64 PJTT-BTKKKT. and 688 GEOROE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital * 41,000.000
Reserve fund ... * 606,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
ahroughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
oial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour,
able terms, at rates whioh can be ascertained on
application.
N F, GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE
BEECHAM’S PILL?
w
WATm
3
M ■'■jvti <jv* ( V”** 4-V
«*oa(S* to tj* worth »■
Guinea a Bo* tor bilious
isoid nervous disorders
wck w» wind. and psa>
fai. the sstojOßfiCht eio.ii
tltdtoht, giddiness
fulness and swelling
doer SMB® l *, dieeraesi
and droweinec®, sole
chills, flushing* of heat,
lose of appetite, short-
BMt of breath, costive
mesa,scurvy, blotches t®
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and gulf
aerveua and trambHag
Benaationa, &c. Thefk#*
dose will give relief te
GE398957 *&Wit ®®. TMt is a* fiction, for the? hsv®
It m thousands ef eases. Ever? sufferer ns
oarawHj invited. to try one bo* off th«s® POla.»«?
(IKS' wffl he acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOA.
m>«? tewelet of all ages these Pill* u* tnvataMM*.
82 & %w doses of them carry off all gross humours,
!tfpm all obstmetions, and bring about all that u
No female should be without them. There
Je m medicine to be found to equal BBBOHAM’J?
BULS for removing any obstruction er irregularity
eS the system. If taken according to the directions
gfc?es with each box they will soon restore fymmim op
eKS ages to sound and robust health.
Wex a weak stomach, impaired digeßtuun and at
iisoyders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and t
gew tees will be found to work wonder* upon the
moei important organs of the human machine They
oteeagthen the whole muscular system, restore tht
taff-Tost complexion, bring back the keen edge oi
awp®idt», and arouse into action with the BOSSBUT
health the whole physical energy of tbs humac
fesaa& These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousan.de
embracing all classes of society; and one off tb*
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated ie
Beeoham’* Pills have the largest sale off any »*••«■«
Medicine in the world,
SIECMAM’S MAGIC COUGH MILS
Am a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi
ertty to Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
6»S Oppression*©? the Chest, "Wheezing, Ac., them
Kite stand unrivalled; and any one labouring unde
a@y off the above complaints need only try One Bos
te wove that they are the best ever offered to th*
mMs for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs.,
iVtossrseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
Epsedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
ac feas&lhing which nightly deprive the patient off reek
Wfe®y give almost instant relief and comfort to thoss
gffltebsd with the above distressing and, when neg
jgeted, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
wife any off the above eomplatofee g»ve Xtancntu*'*
©wear Prens a trial.
The moat violent Cough will la e ata* tone to
<saa&»ved,
ffkrao*.—- I The public requested be- matte® th*.-
.146 wards BsaosLUff’s Pu.ee, St. Helena,swe c»e th*
ienmiint Stamp affixed to- **vch box off fe® Pitre
8B soft on they are a forgery
fSegMMted only and cold fdMHMe waft *wawu ter
proprietor, 1. Beeoham, Chestest, fit,. Kelfes.
K<v«@«aiurt, England, m boxes at Is,. Is 4 crad Bs, #d
9tJBtoo=#old by ah Druggists and Ytetasd MnUenn
Woian ttmmghautths Oolo»*», »
WnJSk-’INdl wwttte «3M* ‘iftki *
Camrcerciai Hotel, fiympie, Quaensl&nd,
_ win
THE above 1b one or Che oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels In the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Bathß.
Mrs. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
f ATKINSON’S^
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others forits lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Golo Mekau—
PARIS.IB7B, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pore-eminent excellence of quality
Atkinson's celebrated
EATJ DE COLOGNE.
It unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance It far s-urp:is»eb the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON’S OLD SR'WN WINDSOR S^AP.
Thu world-renowned soap is superior to all
others 'or cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting tn me
0/ ah Dealer i, and o; the Manufacturers —
J & E ATK NSON, '
21
■Trade
, One Bonn Street, Lomdom
Mark—” White Rose ' on“ Golden
Lyre.”
WE CAN RECOMMEND
33- JHXJQ-EnsrEl’S .
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
A the moat central and well appointed of any In
the city.
WIG MAKING and HAIR WORK
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
Noth thb Addkksb-
-06 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.PX).),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
Ttasonic HOTEL, EAST-STREET, ROCK'
fJL HAMPTON. —T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings»—The “Western Cham
don" says i “ 1 can recommend the Rockhampton
fasonlc ip my western friends.'
fxtzbox sorm^
BAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
MT FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
Plunge and Shower Bath,
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor,
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, 60ULBURN.N.8.W.
IjIIBST-OLASB accommodation tor commercial
” gentlemen andotners. Pel vats sitting noma,
a anla rooms. JAMBS HI Muse a, Pronrlator
t*umri«HF fc.*tra Btowl
QUAhIXS
sm
ifflTi UD>
BABB' PALE ALE.
SOLE PURVEYORS tc tH«
MMUPNIAI, AM© DIDIU nKHIWWWWE f
LONDON,
Wtf Spools! ApjpoSatHKMßßl,
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W BALCKIH JOHHBTOK i C 0
OtwirtU) Chamber*, Boat*, mrr r, Bydney.
Q. ETEVENBON
Has Ob Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS CASKS, VATS,
BUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &o
• O iPBRAGE
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market street*.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
J, CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockamptoai,
fIONDUCTEI> on the same principle ai the
f great Melbonrne Coffee Palace, A vary
large Billiard Room.
Priors as follows i—6s. per diem, All meals Is, Bd,
:
i
I
D e RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
Idas <an enormous sale In England,
and is now being Introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should gftt a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use It.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON. ENGLANTL
jr
i
[ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST A ERECTIONS
_ . .ItPAKLD ONLY BY (
iThbmas Insham,
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY'
IMPORTERS Of Alt THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
ad «t <WS*«* TREE* BMMBBAWII, 1
CHRISTIE’S
QtJEEHSLAHD EMPLDYMEST ABEHOY
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE
Missing Friends searched tor.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable la
formation.
T 9 Elleabeth-street,
BRISBANE
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION-
FIRST-CLASS TABLE.
Terms Moderate
MUS6RAVE HOUSE,
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GKORGK STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor.
HlflH -CLASS Dentibtht I At Rbfobm Pbickb
iiiiw
d
* •
ARSHALL BRO
DENTISTS
&ABEtH CT
Teeth naiblcMljr extracted onfler
tae dalli at 11.


ROYAL
nm\
0
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratuß, or cream of tartar, rendering
tbfm lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of Its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot. even
by dyspeptics, with mpunity. Maintains Its full
strength In any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physioians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Rovax Bakins
Powdkb Co., 108 Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co.,
N.S.W.
P. EC. liA.RK.XN,
WHLOBBALE AND REIT AIL
WINK AND "PIRIT MERCHANT, AND IMPORTER.
THE FAMOUS £3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS CONTAINS i
S Bottles Brandy
1 Bottle Jamaica Bum
1 Bottle Port Wine
3 Bottles Whisky
1 Bottle Wolfe’s Schnapps
1 Bottle Sherry Wine
7 Bottles Lowndes’ Bum
1 Bottle <ld Tom
TOTAL, 18.
Securely Packed and delivered Free to Redfern Station, or any Wharf in the City, on receipt of <5B,
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
PRINCE OF WMLES HOTEL
CORNER OF GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS.
CENTENNIAL SELECT BAR, 780 George -street.
WHOLESALE AND RETAII"sINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT
782 and 784 Gborge-sireet, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NETW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES.
YORK STREET. WYNYARD SQUARE.
AM
60 CLABRNGS BTBEET, BYDNK7.
Melboiu-na and London.
ILLUBTRATKE OATAI/«U*S WITH PRIOR USX, ERR* Oil AFPUOAYSOJW
WALLAGH BROTHERS.
VRNI, fIDI not'
if or Artistic Postal and KffectJT*
combining softness and bruit* o **'
Photographs of
GNARLEMONT A &
ROYAL AROAD*.
STAND PRE-EM INENTIiT -
ffD THOU AND DO LIKIWI3* 1
Hummer, with its heat, dost
effects, is onus, and one of thegr®*
# J S3U.OULO, IOUU UO, £»UU. Ulio Ui W—- agpr
we may enioy. ta a delightfully 000 l *° ,
bath, made more luxurious bf
ilttie “Sea Foam Shampoo." ,nS W*
and you will find Its a most beneflojaj
giving adjunct to Che collet It W“* mMpfi
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave the® “ f
perfumed, will cure Scurf, RingW°f®> . ( jlft*
perramea, win ou.ro ocuri, £****■ *
head, and has the endorsenaWM J* 1
medical authorities. The word*
Shampoo” are registered, and any &t
imitation of same will be prosecute
extent of the law. Sold by 00 (f
dealers Ln collet articles at the 10*
shilling per packet,
-will never regret It
Please try on*
pao^
THEATRE ROT^l*
ROCKHAMPTON!
THE above is lie only Uo***ffLno
Rockhampton for holding
other Entertainments, and oan #• 1
any term upon UiIJ
Tha Wonder of th» JJJ,.
ULKMaN and Sons. Cootal ??£S**
awarded First Prlee at the Ade
; for Dheir PURE VOLATILE J
~ The only known cure for **
otions of the chest. We have ®
lmontals chan any medicine be*° r i
9ls a genuine article. Posted to «- J
■eceipt of scamps. Price, Is.
mts, Hoffnung & Co. | Elliott Bro*^
ctesl staxiowsb? agcotjitt :eso
PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. ADDRESS CARDS PRINTED OR ENGRAVED, ALSO BALL PROGRAMMES, LIEMORIAM CARDS, & 0 '
' MUSIC AND BOOKS BOUND CHEAPLY AND STRONGLY.
ATSEND FOR CIRCULARS OF TYPOGRAPH AND BERRYGRAPH COPYING PROCESSES.
MUSlC—Newest Pieces, Songs, Dances, and Part Masic. New Catalogue, Free on Application.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 34S GEORGE STREET.
ALLAN - A. MAKSHAIjIj & UO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS Of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Piff and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
rntmtt and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art MeUl Work, Coppersmlthlng, BUoksmlthlng, Pltunhing,
aasflttlng, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic BeU itting, of every deiarlptlea,
BOULTON'S "FLUSH," "VALVE," and "PAN" OLOSKT9, "VACUUM" WATER.
WASTB, PREVENTERS, fcc
In Verity Krnu, Patent A£r rr»*«Uink blawt Fan rears*. ea« Straw. Beauers,
Warmers, 4be.j
BON ACCORD WORKS, TaND 9 SLACQOARIE. -PLACi,
SYDNEY
Full Pab«ooka** abd Pbiob s* ArruuAMO*.
ALFRED LAWRENCE and
ISO OOLLINS-STREBT, WEST.
MELBOURNE!.
91 FITT-STRBBT.
SYDNEY.
BREWERS and .aerated Wat er Makers Machinery and Appliances. Books on J
making. Dr. Grief endorff s Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. Grief endorff s Bohenu* flfl uoi (
Dr. Griefendorffs Dandelion Biiters. Dr. Griefendorffs Quinine Wine. Utica and
Bitters. Hop Aroma, Corking Machines, yeast Presses and other sorts. Lignozote
and casks. Boakes Liquid Albunlen Wine Finings. Thermometers, Saocharometefß*
Ammonia and Ether Ice Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion Al®»
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, &c. Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application.
Publishing Office of
“THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS' JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WINS
TRADE REVIEW."
Also
“THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE, )
Al*o
BEACOSSFIE' D HOTEL
(CLOSE TO BEACH),
ST. KILDA, Melbourne.
E. A. COOPER,
. Proprietress.
P. GIBBS, Manager.
LEA & PERRIES
AUG
L?AITpIfRI!S
In consequence #/ ImjfaSims TB£ WOMCE'S TP% S.tilßM
SA UCE which are caicuiaUd m deceive the JPubiu* t<e* duct Pemw
have to request Shat Purchasm m that Sh* m muff
hears their Signature Skm^
as
without} which sb# hefSU of She original}
SAUCE' isgenuim.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS?' Sauce, and see Name m Wrapper, INM, tmS
Stopper A Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors , Worcester; Cress* ***4
Blackwell , London , <srv., ty Grocers and Oilmen th7Wtshout the
Wholesale Agents : MOOTKB’ioatt Josjbph sc C 0.,: David Cohkn &Co , Sydney.
H'-Qt-iLir NUTRITIVE
MA» fif OBTAiNES M* TABEREBTIW US PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE
rjlO JOBBING PRINTERS, *O.
To be aold, a large quantity of Old Type and
Cases, useful for country newspaper. Apply,
" Bvjllktin” Newspaper Co., Pitt-streei.
NOTICE.
! j\o BK BET.—STORKS
A
Office, Bitt-streeii.
t&‘ 0
Apply
VISITORS To SYDNEY ARE INVITED TO INSPECT CUE MAGNIFICENT STOCK. OF
WATCHES, Jewellery, Opera-glaaaea, Optical, Mathematical, Scientific, and Surveying Gouda, also the aurivalled Workshops, in lull swing, where the inanafaotcOf 0
all these Gouda is carried on under the qonatant aud personal supervision of the Proprietor. Come one, come all, to 334 Geor«e-atreeto.
IF 1 . WISS SITEB~ ”334: G2QBG-I] S'ZTSSS^'''
WIESENER, WIESKNER. WIESEMER, WAL'UrIMa.K.EK, JEWELLER, OPfICAiS.
