

YOUR
GROCER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
J. 8. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydnit. ...
" An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint Of the beat Ale or Porter."—LakcW
Saturday, 27th October,
On the Ground, at Three o’clock.
laclava
'9
Hill
9
Position.—Surrounded by the mansions of E. S. Grimwade, Esq., Hon. James Service, M.L.0., Dr. Mein, H. W. Danby, Esq.,
G. Whitting ham, Esq., E. A. Wynne, Esq., John Bljth, Esq., and Mrs. Spence.
Munificent RESIDENTIAL ALLOTMENTS!
Messrs. Baylee, Shevill & Co.
Have been favoured with instructions to SELL as above, on Saturday, 27th October,
ib
Having from 50ft. to 70ft. Frontages by Depths cf from 150 ft. to 164 ft. Right of- way to every Block.
Allotments fronting Balaclava Road, and having such admirable surroundings
as the Mansions named, will be SOLD to the HIGHEST BIDDER.
|Nv>k e Proprietors have decided to maintain the value of Balaclava propeity, and have therefore considerately refrained from
l( hrtg this magnificent estate into small allotments.
* an( * is close to Balaclava Station, and on proposed tramway route, is next to the corner of Orrong Road, along.which
s es now proceed.
S Malvern and Caulfield Stations are within walking distance, and for a Residence Suburb Balaclava is and always
11 in urgent request.
this statement be doubted, the fact of the gentlemen above mentioned havir g chosen Balaclava for their place of abode
V ee tualJy disprove any doubt.
Cleans surxd. Passes in Co-u.xse of Pxepaiatiorv
For Terms and further particulars, see future adveitisements.
V Solicitor: Surveyors;:
**NK GREY SMITH, Jun., Esq. Messrs. MUNTZ and BAGE.
Don’t forget the Position !
Don’t forget the proximity to Station !
Don’t forget the Tram itoute!
Don't forget the Omnibus Route !
Dont forget the Day of Sale ! and
Don’t forget to be there !
The Bulletin


ARDMAfI Bros.
ANUFACTURERS
&t&r*
A*»
IXtACIt
emnfttz
COMWACTiOHSo
«n>
z
t 899
umr
=o=
tmatacmncn imw Y e/rytea.Cca*er & Svmcr
TOBACCO
11
XSOIPSONS
fp
a
SO
o
V
V
„
SIR ROGER
israi
a
*L
DIXSONS
E. 33. MILES,
MUTING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Minins Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
SWW.TOITS PAIN PAINT
CURES ,AU PAINU
the beßt known remedy (or RHEUMATISM
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, fee.
tad taken Internally cures DIARRHOEA
9YBENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all, other
atarnal aches and pains.
fßy# 1 told gferyr/tfyy
■nriiwthic mu mmim.
pugg J|l 111 1 nil r AND BVDNEV/
PAINT
FOR SALE —Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers Apply
Bulletin Office.
IFE PRESERVATION;
JLi BY
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdalb Stbbbt East, MbiiBOUBNB.
This work Is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail Ss. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
McLEAN BROS., RlOrG A CO.,
IBONMONGKRB,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
518 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
o
m
Co
&
IRONMONGERS
o 512
H/
*>*)'**
REG?
o
H
x>
$
BPKOlklA’i'l j
Stewing, l&uiMw, &&\mvn kXteß \AsXV
KLKOTKO-FIi&TKU WA KB, OUTIiKK'S , TQOUI,
SAB OOOIO.NO STOVK8 1—UKONIS VLBTOHBK'a 3BANB fc WALKIB'B,
BRADFORD'S WASHINO MAOHXNBB, fcn,, 8so»
INSURE YOUR HEALTH! fl| ,
AGAINST ALL RISA® 1
MB'S FLUID lUIS>
(I Oools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the 3
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of P*
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
0*
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OT#
(Fid* Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &o„ accompanying each be
TAKE ONLY KRTJSgg-
Sold in Bottles at Is, 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. *
JOTT
-—lOl
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
labitribtd Capital ~
raid-up Capital ..
ItUl Income Last Half Year
£549,151
£340,554
£809,534
ISPISIIS I Fir U. fir TWELVE MOUTHS.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Persona who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
*'ao wish to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
JL 7ERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
Ala BRANGI offers the very beat opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
AXPLE FO'DS for Borrowers. T£EU3 LIBERAL
m
m
premie* l
BUILDING ASSOCIATION,.
54 COLLINS STREET
£25 Contributing Sh a
(AN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon
p a ym ell
✓
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon th° se ,-jjji
poiiip o^* 1
per Fortnight until such Payments, together witn g jji u
■ old el
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to thci .
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares lC ° e M
, QOllW 1 ® ,
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they ha |j
£ll 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for^ll
Hon. JOHN NIMMO, M.P., J.P., - " » eCtC
JAMES MIItAMS, M.P., J.P.,
r r
illl
Siliit
■
UiM
in
m
E
THIS . . '|l
FEDERAL COFFEE PALA L
COItNER OF
lEalirrgr de Collins Streets, Mel'bo 1113 ’
Containing 560 ROOMS, is now replate with every conveniance for the comfort of Visi fcorS
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnis«' ed ’ d C'
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisi» e
Appointments Unequalled in the City. .
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL ™ GROUND FL
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliges s qO'M
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE.
- A
l». M,
TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMI’TLY 1
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
George Cohen
|Kl3 n


The Bulletin
Vol 9 —No 455,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1888.
Price, 6d.
Editor Haddon, of “The Argus.”


NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shilling!
iterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Ti Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Thh Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
She national Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
s BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. t
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
ikT 14 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
jPtr Annum £1 0
Half-yearly 0 IS 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns m
length, or say SOW words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin ” mil return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1888.
A Gigantic Job.
It ia a fortunate thing for Mr. Eddy, the
newly-imported New South Wales Railway
Commissioner, that his billet is beyond the
power of Ministerial caprice, or by this time
he would be sailing over the dark blue
waters in the direction of his native home.
For he had hardly set his foot upon Austra-
lian soil before he brought it down with a
thud upon Premier Parkes’ sore toe, and
we all know what would have followed if Sir
Henry Parkes could have played a lone
hand. “Hoff with ’is ’ead ” would have
been the command, and any remonstrance
would have been met with the gentle and
elegant answer recently vouchsafed by the
Department to a petitioner : —“ The Go-
vernment decline to receive any further
communication on the subject from a person
who cannot conduct his correspondence in
accordance with the ordinary usages of
civilised life, and to return (sic) your letter.”
* * •
Confronted at the moment of his landing by
the inevitable interviewer, Mr Eddy wisely
refrained from the expression of any opinion
concerning Australia or her railways. As he
had no practical acquaintance with either, he
could not well do otherwise. But he felt
himself compelled to say something or
other to the interviewer, and he no doubt
thought he was quite safe when he took
refuge in the epigrammatic enunciation of
the universally-accepted general principles
concerning railway management which have
long pissed into truisms. Poor Mr. Eddy !
How could he tell that the Premier of New
South Wales was about to Bet all these prin-
ciples at defiance and allow the perpetra-
tion of a gigantic and disgraceful job !
“ My experience of English railways has
convinced me that all railways should be the
property of the State,” quoth Mr. Eddy,
“and my investigations of American railway
affairs have Bhown me the utter failure of the
land-grant system.” Quite so ! Mr. Eddy
is fully aware, aB we all are, that every
political economist in the world has declared
that the general Government should control
all highways. He knows, as we all knovr,
that the British people devoted the whole of
the first half of this century to the redemp-
tion of the public roads from the various
trusts, corporations, and monopolists who
had acquired the right to tax the traffic of
the kingdom by means of heavy and inequit-
able tolls under the false pretence of main-
taining the highways He knows that the
British Parliament expressly reserved to
itself in the General Railway Act of 1848
the right to take possession of all railways at
the expiration of 30 years, and that it has
never been able to exercise its power of com-
pulsory purchase by reason of the organised
obstruction of the railway directors, jobbers,
and agents who practically control legisla-
tion on the subject. He is probably aware
that nothing is more difficult than the re-
eumption of public property which has once
been allowed to piss into private hands, and
he could not have suspected that the Premier
oPthe colony whose most important public
service he came expressly to direct, could
contemplate the alienation of the most valu-
able asset in his possession.
• * *
For that is what the alienation of the New
South Wales tramways comes to. When
the people part with them they part with the
entire control of the traffic of Sydney, with
the freehold of the public streets, and with
the power to regulate the internal communi-
cation of the colony. Is there money
enough anywhere to pay the community for
such concessions, to make up to it the loss it
would sustain by such an abandonment of
its absolute property 1 The public is to
give up for 45 years all participation in the
fruits of competition, in the natural incre-
ment of the great city of Sydney, and in the
improved conditions of life certain to result
from the continual progress of invention. It
is to submit to an immediate increase of 200
per cent, upon the minimum fares, since there
are now plenty of penny sections on the lines,
but in future 3d. is to be the lowest
charge. The cost of traction may be in-
finitely lessened by the discovery of some
new motive power, but the people are not
to share in the profit thereof. They are to
preclude themselves from extending their
railways to the shores ot Port Jackson since
they certainly could not enter into competi-
tion with a monopoly which they had them-
selves created, and are to neutralise and
nullify the effecb which will be produced by
bridging Sydney Harbour. Indeed, since
the North Shore is to have its railway con-
tinued to the water frontage at Milson’s
Point while the city railway i 3 to stop short
at Redfera, the inevitable effect of the
measure must be the transference of much
of the city business to the North Shore and
the eventual supremacy of that part of the
metropolitan district. These consequences
are not problematical but inevitable. The
Redfern terminus is a mile and a-half from
deep water. The Milson’s Point terminus
will actually be washed by the rising tide.
Every human being who knows anything of
the laws that regulate the growth of
cities will readily perceive that the New
South Wales metropolis of the future
will be clustered around the point where the
impact of foreign commerce meets the centre
of internal distribution. Where the railway
meets the ship the wharf will stretch and
the warehouse will rise, and the merchants
will congregate, and the hum of life be loud
and busy. If Sir Henry Parkes is allowed
to work bis foolish or wicked will, that de-
velopment will take place in North Sydney,
and the present city will be left as high and
dry as the Cinque Ports along the Kentish
coast.
• * *
According to Sir Henry Parkes, the
population of New South Wales will, iu 37
years from this time, have reached the total
of 4,445,000, and, as the proportion of the
Sydney population to that of the colony is
over one-third (33 64 per cent.), the city
will, in 1925, contain one million and a half
of people. All their rights and privileges are
now to be sold, and the very freedom of their
streets taken away from them. Thirty-seven
years hence steam may be obsolete, and coal
may be superseded. The cable system may be
elsewhere as extinct as the old post-waggon
and as far behind the age as an Eastern
caravan. But they are to be compelled to
put up with it or to buy their liberty at a
cost equal to the profit the monopolist would
make out of their servitude, and it is difficult
to tell how they would come by the incal-
culable sum which would be represented.
Indeed, the plan of the Government seems
expressly designed to prevent them from
doing so, since the bargain proposed is many
times less to the advantage of the public
than any other compact of the kind on
record. In Melbourne, for instance, the
concession to the tramway company is only
for 30 years. In Sydney it is for 45, In
Melbourne every suburb was already served,
and well served, by railways running right
into the very heart of the city, and all
that the tramway company could do was
to run side by side and compete for the
traffic. In Melbourne every fraction of the
work had to be begun and completed by the
Tramway Company. In Sydney, the trams
are ready, there are no competing trains, the
monopoly is Becure and the revenue enor-
mous to begin with. The tremendous profits
of the Melbourne tramways make them for
the original shareholders the best speculation
of the century. The attempt to give away
the New South Wales tramways upon far
better terms means much more than this. It
means that the present population and future
inhabitants of Sydney are to be handed over
to a gang of speculators with various indivi-
duals of which certain members of the
Government are on terms of intimacy.
* • *
A million sterling has been spent upon the
construction of the 51 miles of the Sydney
tramways and the purchase of the rolling-
Btock. Will anyone kindly set down
the value of a 45 years’ lease of the
51 miles of streets those tramways tra-
verse 1 With a population of 350,000
the tramways carried seventeen millions
of people last year. Will anyone cab
culate how many they, when improved up to
and beyond the present Melbourne standard
of convenience—will be carrying in 30 years
or so, when the population will be five times
as large ? In short, can anyone find any
excuse whatever for the proposed transfer
public property except the weakness—we wio
not say corruption —of the Government and
the greed and rapacity of the Government’s
friends ? The whole business is a job, and a
very disgraceful job. To facilitate its pro-
gress the Government have purposely de-
clined to permit the extension of the railway
into the city. Apparently, to make the task
of the conspirators easier, they have fihut
their eyes to the gravest and most shameless
mismanagement. They must, or Bhould
have seen that they* were being plundered
by the conductors Bince the cash paid into the
Treasury showed a steady diminution, but
they made no tigo. In 1885, 35 miles of
tramway yielded £227,144, or £8483 16s. 6d.
per mile. In 188(5, 36i miles of tramway
returned £234,142, or £6414 17s. per mile.
In 1887, 51 miles gave them a gross return of
£229,273, nearly £soo(ffless than 36 and-a-
half miles had returned in the previous year !
No wonder that oyster-shop keepers made
£2OOO profit each in a few months by dealing
in stolen tickets. No wonder that con-
ductors built terraces of houses and the whole
Bystem of theft became a public scandal.
But the mere fact that theft grew up under
Government mismanagement does not excuse
the Government for conniving at an appro-
priation of the entire property. We have as
little respect for the Parliament of New
South Wales as any created being can possibly
have for any existing body, and from their
past history we decline to believe that they
can with confidence be looked to in this
matter as guardians of the public estate.
But, fortunately, the people are not without
power, and this steal, if effected, will make
every man in the colony poorer, and injure
hiß children after him. Therefore should
indignation meetings and individual protests
rise around on all hands, until every member
of Parliament is firmly convinced that he
will be kicked out if the swindle succeeds.
That conviction once created we shall hear
no more of attempted frauds.
The Champion of the “Calico Jemmy
A New South Wales country journal, whose
leading articles evidence the possession of far
more ability than is ordinarily owned by the
journalistic dog-walloper of the back-blocks, pub-
lishes a leader defending from all aspersion the
“ Calico .Jemmy ” of Sydney importing fame, but
unhappily for the “ Calico Jemmy t ” aforesaid the
article is headed “ Flaws of the Times.” This
personality was doubtless altogether unintentional
as the article is complimentary to fulsomeness to
the men who wear white vests and sheeny bell-
toppers and who exude the vapour of commerce
from every pore of the skin. They are described
as “a class of men acting as so many conveniences
by which a thousand articles of domestic use are
brought within the reach of the consumer.” These
heroes of the age of trade and greasy barter have
“as a rule been soundly educated.” Their
southern champion boastfully records in their
favour
Maiy of them have gone through a grammar-school
and a university course.. Their parents were able to give
them the advantages of a liberal education. They served
an apprenticeship in commercial houses, and learned the
business of trade. They, having fitted themselves for
their occupation by book-learning, by strained attention
to the detiils of dealing in merchandise, sometimes by
travel into foreign countries, always by patience,
assiduity, toil, and natural talent; at length, after years
of solid slavery, years of which the days were not
measured by a minimum of hours of labour, they establish
a reputation, and are known all over the circle of com-
merce as men who can be trusted. By their finanoial
capital, and by aid of the capital derived from a good
name, they secure the confidence of merchants and manu-
facturers elsewhere, and are looked upon as men whose
word is their bond, whose bills are equal to Bank of Eng-
land notes, and whose temporary possession of cargoes of
goods is as secure as an insurance policy.
Let us take the picture as we find it without cavil.
This is an overdrawn picture of the commercial
vampire, the levier of commissions, the tax-gather
on human necessities, the middleman created by
an artificial civilisation, in which all the good old
v rtues of the past are sunk in a bank-balance
and weigh lightly in the scale when pitted against
a consignment of shoddy goods from Brummagem.
Let us accept this apotheosis of the trade hero
without question. This is the age not of gold but
of gilt, and the importer is the saint of the new
order whose canonisation is pleaded for ley the
specific gravity of a money-bag. And taking the
picture as we do on trust, is it worth while to
continue the civilisation of this present era for the
sake of this white-vested apostle ? We think not.
Commerce costs too much. The game of barter is
not worth the candle of human suffering !
* • *
The description of the merchant is delightful.
He has been to a grammar school; he has had all
the opportunities for a liberal education furnished
by an university course, etc., etc. To describe a
man’s virtues by enumerating his advantages is a
novel mode of procedure. He has been fortu-
nate ; ergo, he is good. A beast of prey is com-
mendable because his teeth are strong, his jaws
powerful, his strength imm wise, his talons of fear-
ful length and sharpness, and his digestion un-
questionable. Now and again in the dreary, arid
waste of trade, like sand dunes in the Sahara, a
merchant is to be found who is not absolutely con-
scienceless. On behalf of this exceptional money-
bag a plea is preferred :
Pkabody, who gave half-a-million of money to provide
decent lodgings for the British mechanio in London, was
what the mountebanks of the newspapers call a “ calico
Jimmy”; bo was Jeejeebhoy, the Parsee merchant, with
his half-a-million given to schools and hospitals in Bom-
bay. Two centuries ago lived another whose munificence
founded Guy’s Hospital.
Indeed ! Where did these individuals obtain their
wealth ? From what source ? They made money
out of human necessity during their lives, and
when they were dying, or shortly before their
death, seeing that they could not take their
money-bags with them, they sought) to square
their consciences, buy a front seat in Paradise,
and obtain a colossal advertisement in a single
move. In New South Wales at least the race
of Peabodys and Jkkjeebhoys is scarce to the
famine extent of scarceness, and the reference to
Thomas Guy, the founder of the Southwark Hos-
pital is unfortunate. This old miser made a cer-
tain amount of money by importing Bibles, it is
true, but he made by far the principal part of his
fortune by the disreputable purchase of seamen’s
prize-tickets in Queen Anne’s war, and during
the year 1720, by his nefarious traffic in the noto-
rious South Sea speculations. By these methods
and by living a miserable life of cheese-paring par-
simony, he made about half-a-million of money,
and, nob being able bo bake ib wibh b , n ,
ib behind bo pay bhe passage of his soul
The fact is thab no min can create weait jjj
bransferring ib from his neighbour s poc tun9 ie
own, and any kudos showered on a J a ejonbf
follower of commerce is only eorame , n eritis
showed upon a man whose question*
bhab he spends his life in baking car
one. The egoist, be he commercial o
else, sbands nob in bhe fronb rank of bhos
delighbebh bo honour.
In New Soubh Wales bhe merchant cujfl
bhe ground. He musb be displaced to
for a nation. A people cannot grow ' ¥ sup-
the importer’s ledger. Greatness can rc bjiit
ported by a bill of lading. The me jjgd tin-
musb go because there is an army the* 1
employed clearing scrub-land and w Dro filsbly
labour which ought to be employed mo t' inaS g ot
to their country. And after all, the ej
bhe people, the workers, the artisans, cO Hego*»
have not been to grammar schools o J Uca tioft
who have had no advantages of liber y or the
the million, have rather a big bill to f
existence of a Peabody and a gi^ 11
They recollect that the class %
them also a Jay Gould, a VA
Mackay, a Rothschild, a Duke oi ,
Duke of Westminster; traffic-monge r terthe
dealers innumerable, always reac,^. c „„* e for v
acres they have managed bo con “ , baß
very breath of life itself. " t j,e ffor i , „
Labour given of its blood and body ~ bIS ts, ®
without payment? Were there no
Pauls, no Peters, divine carpenters,
fishermen, who were careful to avoi a(^e0 .gou ,
commission and render to the jjogs tI!U . v
C.esar of commerce the sordid tras.. j. e toP •
is defilement ? Has Humanity no j or gcic°‘l
to the men who wrought for idea , roo gbt
for sentiment, for liberty ? Men w ,t her ’
their lives with small thought of patr>
mechanics, poets, statesmen, ar 1 „v l0 uray r ‘pii-
saviours ? Are the Peabodys who • gjmplfj „
for a bank-balance and who achieve, ri ta jce» .i,
dering up again thab which they can ff ® c n
deserving of more temporary fame t M II,O Ihe
waits upon the splendid achievemen j, 9 re ,
Obrenovitch, the Servian swin , frui
Peabodys, we say, the final flowe mart p j
our race ? What of bhe great army qj
science, to patriotism, to humanity • 0 „
minds which have given us all
benefits that Commerce is so read L *he
for its own advantages? What
Faradays, Benjamin Franklins, v )(
Gerald Masseys, Michael v
NARD PALISSYS, RICHARD AHNWEI g IpflCßi
Lincolns, Henry Georges, : 6 hsof BC 'j#
George Stephensons ; the blackem an( j s , f°%*-
compositors, stone-masons, factory- { B sW U jpd
barbers, rail-splitters, printer ». fl gatb ’ 9 ,id
makers, stokers who have time c oro-^ e f%'M
the bra in of man over the stile o *■’
obstruction and crammed ideas 1 J 0
jelly-bag of barter? From . Mos -■ * Cl* N to
to Mahomet, the camel-driver ; D r "* 1V 5
tus, the little Roman cock*. tbe^!# 11 '
Andrew Jackson, the village sn Pi bi® [r y
has given his strength and his bra jple
hood to men, and yet forsooth 0 g jj o ul“. , lo t, tl’ e
contemporary demands that ,
gatestotheworkmaninorder that y ro jjia, s P‘ l"
importer, may continue to reap P ro "1
scattered and non-progressive jRc ', o tl*.
C.esar’s “Commentaries on the j g J®" 6 ,(J#
the first chapter of the first book, of
the Helvetii were of all the t l e&8 j n iiB te ?i
the bravest because merchants c vo t» a K
their boundaries. And O.ESARis ® g ß ge WL.it
despite the drivel heaped like f°, re ’
shrine of a money chest by
newspapers that subsist by a
imports from a played out wori ■
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Vox Popull—Vox [?]
This is a very pretty P hras ® a 4
the crowd, but there s really 1 . t A
sounds well because it’s L a6ll l’ )e j t y
knows anything about the
enough that His sympathies ar - n£ j e eo>
crowned heads: so much so, rV |B gs W®,.*
theory of the Divine Right ° f oßa r
accepted as an axiom by ‘king nW s ~{b
ments. This by way of
that any man who proposes \°?^ n oo^ e A[ i e ot l °%
Lament by prayer is a ho o \ V n PTi&f «b«
astray in regard to the well-*" ftB d 0 f , 8 )
Providence. During the si A fiiV 1
mentary season when the (and,
stormy roar of legislative w»t uD ts ?L o‘ f /
gives an opportunity for the e u es cl ° j c c v e jr
social bores to be heard, vario o ,s s r » 0 i
crously small import fill the P
the attention of our grand tb 0 gffflfj* Gob
knitting. Thus the query ,v^tit> oti °«ir 'a
otherwise of marriage as an » dn jl ,f ft g o rj''!'
agreeable little topic to chat o
tea, for it is pleasant to con si uject 'A
abstract after exhausting the . r»°^ e p r , >
dual aspects throughout the n ot
of one’s acquaintance as haPP D . - e «» c O,I W.
during the discussion.
failure as a subject to murn frojo tb pA [,P c o|
places about, so “A o i*v )B no> O j
plunges into the Sydney M , e (?f gt 0 '’
the ever-green drivel anent n^ic 0 /
openmg the deliberations oi (( v
emporium with prayer. . t tt 1 '
remarks t to ®
Tne matter upon which I am ( ‘ l nce to
matter of the most vital impor t , eo ple- „ af o>.a
country and the well-being of l ,J e last l a
of this subject many times m joe ■ »/!
have not observed an artlol 1 f- tß eint? r Wl> > ?hiyr
reference to it that I can J\ n ing o 1
never been present at the op . fl th
am informed that the ceremo > ea t o aC gC >|)
one, a ceremony ia which.fmerse, » s ” . A
Creator and Ruler of the Uni ere jiO 0 ’ K A
nor even mentioned with due ageb ,‘igS
It is a terrible thing ,f lh Ttf>”s</
moment that perhaps a t j, t! it j
South Wales are due to
(Herald phrase) naann P IV1 g uggf e AJ
attempts to get along
Even if he were to the ‘ V >, >ft
generously thrown out DX.
doubtless begin his c onsi d0 h r e prAiA;
the Deity,” and when ona Oj
the people who have b t in bhe B d € t iO cl> it
South Wales Ministry, tb 0 V'Y
of the “Voice,” “ the A Bt) itle d *° get
sands who are not yeb ® , ter> w 0 , ijj
are concerned in this ~ nCO { At
the awful and Provi (( y o ic u jd
of Parliament. Says 3 • ingß h
I hold that such a state of qU jte 0 9 AA r’
this Christian land. Nay, * leg l3 go»'
this is altered, and until
selves under the mighty sjno ere P tt i
Legislative Assembly wit a rft( .j 0 n > j|
blessing bn their united den


good or lasting law passed. We shall never have a goo d
land law, nor any good and permanent law until this is
done.
Now, this is a moot point. Ot course we freely
admit that in the interests of fair-play, seeing
that the D evil is consistently invoked throughout
the session, that his place of abode is
warmly apostrophised during any and every
important debate, and that his servants are
constantly “on the job ” when the whisky is
on tap ; seeing all this, we say, it would certainly
be a very small concession to the opposite camp to
open Parliament with prayer. But it would be of
no use ! There is no doubt about it! For the
past 10 centuries the “Vox Dei” has been
secured on the side of Capital and the Shekinah
has been employed to gild the tottering thrones
of ermined despotism. The “Vox Populi ” has
to go a lone hand and trust to the spotless Pre-
mier and the Governmental syndicate, and take
its chance about getting left. The “ Voice ”is
savagely in earnest about it, and we pity it, but
it cannot be helped. How much in earnest it is
may be gathered from its concluding collect, which
runs thus:
I assure you that I am so utterly convinced of the
truth of what I am writing about that I deeply sorrow
for the fate of my oountry, if things are not altered, and
so radically altered that Parliament will not only be
opined by prayer to God for His guidance and direction
in the making of our laws, but that the tone of Parlia-
mentary debate will be so entirely altered that those of its
members who have hitherto acted more like brute beasts
than reasonable beings may be brought into subjection
by example and the good influences brought to bear,
that they may act in deed and in truth like Gon-fearing
men, and legislators who will be an honour to their
country.
Poor “ Voice 1 ” The “ tone of Parliamentary
debates ”is largely dependent on the quality of
the whisky provided in the Parliamentary refresh-
ment-rooms, and the best way to alter the “ tone”
is to provide a different brand of stagger-juice.
Prayer is powerless in these cases. We have our-
selves seen instances where the very clergyman in
his pulpit, though praying like a chaff-cuttiog-
machine, has utterly succumbed to the in-
fluence of a spirit usually kept) in a bottle.
No, it’s of no use ! Providence is so busy
propping-up the chosen dignitaries of the
old world that He has no time to atbend to the
wail of the Democracies of the new. All ex-
perience, all tradition, is against the idea of the
Deity being a Democrat. “ Obey Gor> and honour
the King. ” This is at the root of all nineteenth-
century civilisation and social organisation. We
would that it were otherwise, if it were only for
the sake of a change—the devil gets all the ser-
vice of our politicians now—but the truth is too
potent for us, and we submit. “ Vox Populi ”is
not “Vox Dei ” —more’s the pity.
“Hooray ! ”
Up till now it has been one of Thb Bulletin’s
Thirty-Nine Articles to look on a colonial Governor
as merely an aristocratic bailiff, a barrister hold-
ing a brief for monarchy, and a social moon
shining with light borrowed from the Imperial
sun, round whom the petty planets of Australian
society delight to revolve. It is being gradually
made plain, however, that he is something more
than all this : lie is, we are compelled to acknow-
ledge, the shrine before whom the worker loves to
debase himself—the “ Golden Calf,” at whose feet
the united trades-unions are eager to grovel and
offer hymns of thanksgiving and tributes of praise.
Where the boasted independence and manliness
of the worker is situated no anatomist can tell;
in the Governor is embodied the dominance, not
only of the monarch and the prelatic peer, but of
the plutocrat, the trinity that have bound man-
kind in shackles. If Brown can’t recognise this—
if, delighting to cover his fetters over with gar-
lands and gaudy sashes, he feels also bound to
wallow in the mire before the shoe-strings of Smith
alias Fitzclarence, whose mission is to gull him
into contentment with his lot in life—so much
the worse for Brown, so much the better for the
firm of Smith & Co. Evidently for every howling
snob that moves in hard cash society there are at
least fifty hoarse-throated cads in the ranks of
the producers. How many centuries 'must elapse
before the fatuous wage-earner can get rid of this
talent for self-humiliation it is impossible to say.
Meantime his apathy, indolence, stupidity, igno-
rance and submission alone delay his emancipa-
tion; for the pace at which reform marches
onward is not regulated by the leaders of thought,
but by the baggage-carriers, the camp-followers
who loiter in thB extreme rear of the Army of
Progress.
Small Coal and large Fronts.
The public has been informed through the medium
of the Australian daily Press that the manage-
ment of the Wallsend C dliery iotend to keep on
filling small coal, of whieh it is said 30,000 tons are
collected in and around the workings, until
Christmas. Not only a vast amount of un-
requited labour, but a large sum of money is re
presented by this accumulation of small coal, for
it must be remembered that if the monopolist re-
fuses to pay the miners for hewing and removing
it, he does not give it away as absolutely value-
less, but has been receiving from ss. Gd. to 6s. per
ton for it, a price that the strike has furnished a
splendid excuse for increasing. Now, if the
amount derived from the sale of this small coal,
at the increased rates, be reckoned at 6s. per ton
net, it will be seen that during the next three
months a profit of £9OOO from this source alone
will flow into his coffers. If this average is main-
tained throughout the year in addition to the pro-
fits derived from the coal for whose ex ■
traction the miner is paid and the surface
rents, some estimate may be formed as to
the enormous dividends received by the pro-
prietors, and their excessive greed in refusing to
hand over to the miners some part, no matter how
small, of the 6s. per ton received. If £9OOO can be
realised from this small coal in three months,
surely the man whose labour gave the capitalist
the opportunity to grab this money is entitled to
share the proceeds. Yet when he modestly
asks to be considered in the matter he is styled
“ a firebrand,” and “ a mutinous scoundrel,” and
every lily-livered, pasty-faced, bigoted news-dis-
torter on the capitalistic Press vomits at him all
the bile and venom his barren imagination is
capable of furnishing at him.
+
Plunkett ami the Climate.
The Sydney E News cheerfully observes :
The Governorship of South Australia will probably be
offered to the Hon. David Plunkett, as the climate of the
colony would suit his health.
Nobody asks, of course, whether the climate and
mental atmosphere of Plunkett will suit the
health of South Australia, but we suppose that
doesn’t matter much. Plunkett, who, by the way,
is a member of the Irish evicting party, has got a
chronic cold in his “dose” or something, and it is
proposed to make a vice-king of him in order that
he may bask in a pleasant climate and recuperate.
He is probably too much shattered to be an
ordinary man any longer, but that won’t prevent
him being a Governor at a lavish screw, and so
long as he has strength enough to cough and snort
pocket-handkerchiefs into rags he will do. If
Plunkett gets the billet he will hang on till he
gets better and then his place will be filled by
some other catarrbal paralytic who wants a grate-
ful nation to look after him and see that he has
his gruel regularly. South Australia is a quiet,
peaceful place where an incurable can exist
in comfort and happiness, and it is nicer
than going to the hospital, anyway. Of course
it is a beastly distance away from London
and sassiety in general but that can’t be
helped. Australia is now almost the only place
left where a shaken and disorganised fossil
can loaf in peace and govern a nation in his
sleep, and though the people are absolutely horrid,
dontcherknow, and so dem’d “wude” in their
manners, it is better than nothing by a long way.
Now and then there is an opening for a king in
Spain or Bulgaria, but the people of these coun-
tries don't generally select a dismantled cripple
because the climate agrees with him, and so afellar
has to put up with only being a dashed Governor
in a land where the savage inhabitants wear the
same pair of trousers two days running and
actually never saw their blessed Queen in all their
lives. Such things as these are a boah, of course,
but they can’t be helped sometimes. Haw !
♦
The < liainpion Political Egoist .
What Parkes the Pre- What Parkes the Poet
mier said about himself wrote about himself two
the other night at St. years ago in a volume of
Leonard’s : alleged verse
Being on the platform I And yet it is the same un-
may be pardoned for Baying sverving soul,
a word about myself. It is He only kept his faith when
now mors than 34 years others changed,
since I was introduced to And heeded not in scorn the
legislative life, which I ominous roll
eutered with great honours. Of jarring threats from foes
Yet I have received a lot of and friends estranged,
vilification. I have had
nearly the whole press of He only kept his onward
the country against me at path when they
different times, but I knew Who oould not see the
that all through those grandeur of his aim
periods of adversity I was Turned to the new-fledged
still the same man. I knew creature of the day,
that I had never ohangsd, And drank their slanders,
etc., etc. feeling not the Bhame.
—Till! PATRTOt.
Alas ! for the country, it is indeed the same old
Parkes, He never changes—always the same
old braggart, the same old egoist, the same old
political plagiarist, the same old “jumper” of
other men’s claims. Always preaching Parkes,
always comparing his ancient, ramshackle per-
sonality to the world’s great men, always postur-
ing as the Gladstone of a new world. At St.
Leonards the other night he had the astounding
audacity to quote the lines written upon himself
by himself “as the words of an obscure poet,’’and
then to apply them to England’s G.O.M. After
doing duty for Parkes they were good enough, in
the New South Wales Premier's opinion, to pin
to Gladstone’s coat-tails. “Me and Glad-
stone ! ” What a satire upon real greatness are
these feeble and whimpering pretensions of a self-
advertising and antiquated humbug, whose every
look and gesture have been copied and imitated
from somebody or other who has made a name and
left a reputation somewhere upon the world’s sur-
face. Greatness doesn’t advertise itself, it doesn’t
go about seeking suffrages, begging for acknow-
ledgment. And this whining about newspaper criti-
cism ! How paltry, puerile, senile, feeble, mawkish
anddrivelliDg! Criticism is the price greatness pays
for its popularity. Victor Hugo, when reminded
by Thiers that journals were sometimes un-
pleasantly personal, replied, “ Yes ! it is the ill-
odour of our reputations.” This is a great reply
from a truly great man. Hu Co goes on unmoved
where Parkes blusters and whine 3. The one
stands in the sunlight of criticism with no thought
of himself, the other seeks refuge in pairing hi 3
personality with the mighty dead and the famous
living. Gladstone ! Parkes ! A blazing planet
in the heavens and a glow-worm in the mud !
The Gallows—an Educational lolluence.
At the old convict settlement of Parramatta,
moss-grown and worm-eaten with dark traditions
of the past, mildewed with grim recollections of
prison-governor, gallows, gyve and leg-iron, the
frolicsome generation—upon whose infancy the
gibbet has thrown a baleful shadow, whose
play-hours have been enlivened by grisly
anecdotes beginning with the boy who was
hanged for stealing 7s. Cd. in Governor Phil-
lip's day and ending with Mount 'Rennie and
its horrible quartette of strangled youngsters
—ha3, according to the daily Press, lately shown
with what profit it has conned its blood-stained
lessoa. Seven boys, “ all under 12 years,” are
alleged to have seized upon a boy not much
over nine, triced him up, flogged him with a
batten, hanged him up by the neck and by the
feet, and done all they could to realise in brief
the ghastly experiences of those who gather round
a condemned crimiual in Darlinghurst or Berrima.
The Press and public are greatly shocked, but
illognally so. The youngsters are simply ,adapt-
ing themselves to their environment. They can-
not be blamed. Those who bathe their children
in pitch must not be surprised if the stuff sticks.
Triangle and gallows, cat and hempen halter !
These are the implements with which children in
New South Wales are educated. The case of the
amateur hanging of the boy Ad a.ms is, if true, only
one evidence of the brutalising effects of capital
punishment upon the mind cf the community.
+
Tlic Agses'-Bridgc of Strikes.
The conference which took place last Eriday in
Sydney between the employers and employed in
the carpenters’ trade should set at rest many of
the false notions which, for the last month or
two, have been industriously circulated in the
interest of Capital. Must a bad man bs paid the
same wages as a good man ? That is the Asses-
Bridge to the great run of the spectators of a
strike. A uniform rate of wages appears to in-
volve the obligation of paying an indifferent or
even bad worker as much per week as the compe-
tent or superior worker. With this thought in
their minds they rant about natural justice,
direct common-sense, and the essential tyranny of
the first principle of trades-unionism. A study
of the proceedings of the conference referred
to will lift them over this bridge. Mr.
D. MTntvre, who represented the employers,
urged that a man might not be worth 10s. a day
and yet be worth 9s , and that to force the em-
ployer to give him 10s. or dismiss him would be
unjust either to the employer or to the man. This
is certainly the most important as it is the most
sensitive part of the machinery of labour-organi-
sations. When Louis Blanc projected his scheme
for the government of French workshops he made
uniformity of wage the mainspring of the move-
ment. Then, however, he saw the difficulty Mr.
MTntyrk presents —and provided for it. He re-
cognised the employer’s title to natural justice by
leaving with him the power to disemploy a man
for indifferent work, and he recognised the man’s
rights also by securing for him work suitable to his
circumstances ; bub he made it necessary that the
master's allegations of incompetency should be
submitted t) the society of which the man is a
member, and lie provided that if the man were by
that body found to be incompetent he should be
removed from the society. This is practically
what the carpenters told the employers last week.
The men who are thus discarded Louis Blanc
recognised as workmen sbill, but he arranged a
manner of employing them, whether their incom-
petence arose from ignorance or age, which pre-
vented competition with competent men. In
respect to the disqualification of age at leas\ the
carpenters at the conference made it clear that their
society has made reasonable provision. Here, then, is
the demonstration of the Pons Asinorum of strikes.
The master is nob asked bo pay full rates for indif-
ferent labour. He is not asked to employ indif-
ferent labour at all. The fact of belonging bo a
society places the workman on the same footing
as the fact of belonging to a law-institute places
the lawyer. The status is a declaration of re-
quisite qualifications, and for cause shown the
society is prepared to remove a member from its
rolls. Bub until cause be shown, the masier-car-
penter has no more ground for complaining that
he is tyrannously coerced into paying a bad man
the wages which only a good man earns than is
any member of the public in complaining similarly
about a lawyer. Within the institute the public
can pick and choose, within the society the em-
ployer can do the same, and in the latter case
there is no more tyranny or injustice than in the
former.
♦
Protection to the Native Liar.
Protection is coming! The S.M. Herald has
endorsed the policy, and everything is right as
right can be. Referring to a new rule of Court,
which is to come into effect on the Ist January,
1889, and which provides that solicitors of any
country seeking admission as solicitors of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales will be re-
quired to pay an admission fee of 40 guineas, our
contemporary says, “ The new rule is a commend-
able one.” In other words, solicitors require Pro-
tection ! The S.M.H. has no doubts about the
matter ;
The solicitor’s profession in New South Wale?, mainly
through the influx alluded to, is, at present, the arena of
exceedingly fierce competition.
This is not a lapsus pennw, for the point—the
main point insisted upon by Protectionists in re-
gard to every branch of industry—is reiterated a
line on two below :
Such opportunities as there are should be, as far as
possible, reserved for solicitors qualified within the
boundaries of the oolony, and the extraordinary immigra-
tion to these shores cf the solicitors from other shores
should be discouraged.
In the name of consistency, what more would the
most thorough-going Protectionist of us all de-
mand- provided that coal-hewers were privileged
in the same manner ‘l Of course, the Hebald
would reply that solicitors and coal-hewers have
nothing in common. It’s only what the Herald
is pleased to contemptuously refer to as “Labour”
which neither requires nor is entitled to protec-
tion. The Herald and such papers may, how-
ever, always be calculated upon to conserve the
interests of the modes of obtaining daily bread
euphemistically termed the “learned professions. - '
The bone and sinew of the country, that upon
which is built up the country’s real weal oh,
require no protection Cheap labour and
dear law. Preetrade when Chinese and black-
legs are concerned, Protection to the bounds
of prohibition wtnn lawyers, and parsons, and
shoddy-goods importers are involved. The wealth
that might be profitably spent in making com
fortable the homes and lining the stomachs of the
workman is reserved to give a top-dressing of gold
to the people who rule Labour by trickery, and
filch its products by finesse. By all means let us
protect—not the artisan, not the farmer, oh no
the native stipendiary liar.! And considering
that, when the new rule comes into force, it will
protect a number of recent arrivals, let us draw a
severe line at what the Herald has often scoffed
at—the solicitor born on Australian soil, the
solicitor born on New South Wales soil. Even
then his father, or his grandfather, or his
great-grandfather, being an imported article of
litigative machinery, or the imported origin of
such an article, he would be outside the pale.
Clearly we must reserve the Bar, according to this
latest development of Freetrade policy, to the
aboriginal nigger. He, at least, is a native, and
deserves that “such opportunities as there are
should be, as far as possible, reserved for solici-
tor's ” born, educated, qualified, and whose ances
tors had their dusky-skinned origin “ within the
boundaries of the colony. ” By all means let us
protect the blackfellow who practises law, as
“ the solicitor’s profession ” in New South Wales,
“ mainly through the influx alluded by the
S.M. Herald - which influx has, by the way,
been going on ever since the landing of Captain
Phillip at Botany Bay—“ is, at present, the arena
of exceedingly fierce competition,” and King
Billy of the Bogan blacks lias a pre-emptive
claim to the fee-simple of horsehair within the
boundaries of his own ’possum-ranch.
♦
ThiE New South Wales Military .Department is
labouring under considerable difficulties in its
efforts to keep order at Newcastle. Somewhere
about 200 men are on the spot, but as some 150 of
these are employed a.s pioneers, storemen, cooks,
officers’ servants, and promiscuous flunkeys the
remainder have to maintain the pomp and cir-
cumstance of glorious war by themselves and play
a lone hand in the game of bogus slaughter. Too
much flunkey and electroi flats and too little
genuine warrior are already undermining the
morale of the Cornstalk host Boot-varnish takes
the place of .intelligence and the army sbines at
the wrong end; there is more commissariat tb an mil -
tary enthusiasm, and the roll is filled with an awful
lot of colonel and a fearful scarcity of full private.
A vast superfluity of general and adjutant hollers
in the rear and a woeful abse nee of plain, unvar-
nished sergeant is conspicuous in frontf. The
army can hit its victuals every time it sßoots at
them with its teeth, but most of the military
array can’t strike the side of a mountain with
a bullet more than once in 27 tries, and
the chief use of the permanent force seems
to be that it furnishes a plausible ex-
cuse for a lot of officers to draw big
salaries and go . about forming themselves into a
hollow square on the slightest provocation. The
Cornstalk army is more than suspected of being
an empty vanity armed with a big gun, and its
chief employment consists in shining its officers’
boots on the bloodstained field of battle. The
brief campaign at Newcastle has strained
the military department nearly to the burst-
ing point, and th 6 rank-and-file are already
almost on their uppers through being persistently
walked about in search of something that isn’t
going to happen, and which, if it did happen,
would inevitably scare the aged white ele-
phants of the Defence Office off their heads.
Plain victuals even are running low, though the
supply of buns and champagne for the officers
quarters still keeps up to the mark; and the
ordinary troops are dead-tired through the opera-
tion of an elaborate system by which they are re-
quired to sit up all night to watch themselves lest
they should go to sleep. And meanwhile the
officers sleep most of the time and their salaries
keep on accumulating in their dreams, and they
wake only to furnish elaborate reports about the
things that haven’t been done by men who never
had the faintest idea of doing them. Such, alas,
are the horrors of war !
♦
An effort is being made by the Foreign-trade
party in Parramatta to introduce religious discord
into the contest for the next representation of the
historic borough. The friends of “ Yooey ”
Taylor, the sitting member, are anxious that his
J 1 oreign-trade ideas should not prevent his re-
election for what is considered the Taylor pocket-
borough s while the Byrnes faction are anxious to
put in the present Mayor, Mr. C. J. Byrnes, who
is a staunch Protectionist. But Hughey is a
“Holy Roman” and Mr. Byrnes is a “ Blhack
Prodestan,” and hence the effort to introduce tho
sectarian element. The Catholics are mainly
Protectionist, as was shown recently at Waterloo,
where Mr. Howe, though a prominent Orangeman,
got a heavy Catholic vote. Even at the banquet
to Mr. Howe a prominent Catholic, Mr. William-
son, occupied the chair, and the bulk of the R.C.’s
don't seem to care a dump what Church Mr.
Byrnes belongs to so long as he is sound on the
tariff question.
-♦
The OTago W itness (N./5 ) points out, with the
vigour characteristic of an established paper
weighing half-a-pound, that the old Km's-
MiSGRAVK-Boots-Judge Noel-MTlwraith com-
plication in Queensland has revealed to the
troubled world a hitherto unsuspected defect in
the Constitutional system of Australasia. Sir
THoMas M‘llwraith resigned on account of
Kitts and the boots, and Sir Anthony Musgravk
refused to accept his resignation. Then
M‘l i, wraith resigned some more and Sir
Anthony suddenly did nothing, and refused as
before to admit that anything had happened.
MTlwraith stated emphatically that he wasn’t
Premier any more, and Musi; rave said that he
was, and would continue to be. The (Governor de-
clined to admit that he had lost confidence in
M'llwraith, and the Constitution afforded the
latter no means of making the Governor lose con-
fidence in him. The one thing which the Premier
pined for was that His Excellency should lose con-
fidence in him, and His Excellency objected to do
it. The awful baldness of the legislative system
of Queensland furnished no tools or machinery by
which Sir Thomas could lose confidence in the
Governor, and as the Queen’s representative re-
fused to turn the handle of the instrument by
which he ceases to confide in a Ministry which
doesn’t meet his views, the Government found
itself tied up in a hard knot. The OtAgo
Witness, therefore, demands that some arrange-
ment should be made by which confidence
could be easily and conveniently lost on
either side at the shortest notice, Under present
arrangements it is just possible that a Premier
who wanted to lose the respect of the Governor in
order to get away might one day be reduced to
lying in wait outside his palace and tripping him
up with string when he came out, or else might be
forced to rush him publicly from behind in order
to show him that the position had become un-
tenable. He might even have to get him down
and sit on him until he acknowledged that he had
lost confidence in the responsible adviser on top
of him, or he mighb be compelled to approach the
subject in other violent ways in order to force a
settlement. Hitherto most Premiers have de-
voted themselves to looking cut for ways to force
the Governor to have confidence in them, and
consequentlv the utter want of adequate machi-
nery for making him lose the article in question
has hitherto passed unobserved, but the Kitts
difficulty has shown that sooner or later this
serious defect in the Constitution will have to be
mended or dangerous complications and bloodshed
may ensue.
The London correspondent of the S M. Herald,
speaking of the growingagitation amoDgit English
working men in favour of Protection, incautiously
remarks—that is, incautiously for a newspaper
pledged and padlocked to the maintenance of
Preetrade a 3 the fiscal policy of New South
Wales :
The Conservative working man has nearly always
been a strong Protectionist, but he is now finding in his
extreme Radical confrere a sharer in these views, fee
great point of the fair-traders has always that Free-
trade rmans low wages, and they claim that Mr. Shiiton
endorses their assertion. There is a strong suspicion
amongst Liberals that Lord Duneavex saweatirg commis-
sion ba3 been an astute political move designed to show
that the unlimited competition which results from Free-
trade involves lo v wages to the working man.
Just so ! Judging from the above it is evidently
the safest and best policy to leave the advocacy
of Protection to the colonial Freebrade organs.
A Bill to constitute a Court of Appeal in criminal
cases is ready for introduction into the |British
Parliament. It is backed by Mr. Anderson, Sir
John Si.mon, Sir Albert Rollit. and Messrs.
Rowntree and Brad Laugh. The Bill is compre-
hensive, and all persons convicted in England and
Wales may avail themselves of its provi-ions. The
condemned person may appeal on grounds of law
or fact, and the petition embodying the appeal
must be duly forwarded by the Governor of the
gaol in which the person is confined No discre-
tion is left with the Governor. The Court of
Appeal will consist of three judges. If one of
these is of opinion that the conviction should be
reversed or the sentence remitted that opinion is
to prevail. A decision confirming the conviction
must be maintained by a majority. There are
other suggestive features in the Bill, but those
given sufficiently explain its object. It will rank
among the most important attempts at law reform
made during this generation.
Sydney Echo says -
To have Ministers “ hollering and singing of anthems ”
is a good thing for those who look upon political life as a
good joke ; but whether it is exactly in keeping with the
traditional dignity of a -Minister of the Crown is a subject
we do not care to express a pronounced opinion upon.
Now, that is shirking an important question in a
cowardly way Quite different was the conduct
of the Grand Duchess of Gerolstein when General
Boom proposed to sing the Regimental Song.
“ La, la, la ! ” began 800m —with indeed much of
the sentimental look of the New South Wales
Minister about him. “ Are you going to sing? ”
queried the Duchess. “ You, a General-in-chief !
Out of the question ! It would ruin your
authority.” Here was the subject pronounced
upon in a manly fashion, and by a woman, too.
But then the Grand Duchess df Gerolstein and
the Echo are man and woman as far as sex in
mind go-s.


Only a few more £lO allotments Everleigh
Estate, Perth, West Australia. Send for Plans
and Pamphlets. The Intercolonial Investment
00., 01 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
We have received the following in aid of
the Newcastle Strike Fund : “Gaffney,'’ 10s.
The most profitable use for a few pounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Investment Co., Ltd., 96 Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
CORRESPONPENCE
“F.A.”t The retort was not original. It was
made many years ago when Baron Rothsohild, though
the law at that time prohibited Jews sitting in Par-
liament was returned at the head of the poll, stood on
the hustings in London, and exclaimed that though the
bigotry of his day excluded him from the nation’s
Senate, he yet was the choice of the people. And then
a low, deep, hollow voice from outtheorowdrepled: “And
so was Barabbas.”....“ E. Marsden”: Too often in
H.S.W. offenders escape punishment by reason of (heir
social position ; but after reading the correspondence in
Holt’s case the public must, we thiok, come to the con*
elusion that Holt, in his application for release, is handi*
capped by the fact that he once had a good social position.
An obsoure person, say a convioted labourer, for in-
stance, would probably be released were such admissions
made with respect to his health as have been
made by the Government medical authorities in re-
gard to the oondition of the unhappy ex-banker....
“A Searcher of the Infinite”: Your screed shows you to
be a man of large discourse. We have handed it over to
the metaphysical sub-editor “J.S.” (Sydney): Letter
received with thanks.... “ Tasmanian ” (Ilog’s Bend is
there such a place under heaven?); Snake story, being a
triflB above the ordinary snake level, is gratefully ac-
cepted "Firefiy”: Your verses are of the kind that
annoy u 5....“ Jemima”: You are not a woman—the pre-
tence is a great deal too thin. You are a double-bar-
relled, copper-fastened, brass-lined a 55....“ J.W.K.” :
Your screed is incoherent beyond the limits of mental fog,
and darker and more mysterious than the gloom which
spread over the land of Egypt....“ Brenton T.” : Held
over “Dash Dot": Will read and consider “Pro,-
teotionjat ”: The. whole point of the Land Nationalists’
conversion from Protection to Freetrade is missed in
keeping out of sight the fact that he is a Laud National-
ist. He votes Freetrade absolute in order to close the
Customs-house and thus force revenue into the direction
of a single-tax-raised entity. With Freetrade pure and
simple and no duties the whole taxation of a country falls
naturally on the land—e.g., Land Nationalisation. You
see that it is a very different thing to Freetrade as it
exists in N.S. Wales cum a Land Tax.... “ Simplex ” : It
is only a question of time and Australia will be as bad as
any other country under the sun. We have imported the
system, and with the growth of population we shall “ get
there just the same.”.... “ Victor R." :We never even in
our dreams had a word to say in favour of the monarchical
institution. It is you who must have been dreaming, or
pt rad venture you have no sense of humour and lack wit.
Read it again “L.M.” (Brisbane): Next week
“Indignant”: The people who growl most about Shake-
speare’s plays being edited for stage purposes are
generally the people who know nothing about Shake-
speare. Were they not told about the matter they wou'd
not know that there were half-a-dozen readings to a single
passage. It is a question usually left to the discernment
and good taste of the actor. Kemble, Macready, Keac,
and others have, at various times, taken liberties with the
presumed text that set all the quidnuncs by the ears, but
somehow the quidnunc3 are dead in oblivion, whilst
Macready, Kean, and company continue to inspire respect
even for what appear caprices... “ Cockney ”: Received..
“ Dirty Pan” (Ripple Creek, N.Q.): It is a very oommon
dodge of the common or garden variety of newspaper, so
common that a fall in gas would be infinitely more sur-
priaing “One of the Public": A genuine grievance
and one upon whioh the Press should bring to bear its
fierce binocular “Subscriber” (Glen Innes): Paltry,
parochial, and inane “Redfern”: The thing is too
absurd for a moment’s serious consideration. The tram-
way commission were doubtless all astray in their compu-
tations. The idea of “ the publio standing in ” is ludi-
crous t) the verge of insanity.....“ Anti-Cant ”
(Balmain): This question wa3 answered last week....
“One of the Public”: Next week “ P.M.” (North
Melb.): Letter for you at Hotham Post-office....“ Nim-
rod ” (Brisbane): Thanks, but please don’t send it to any
other paper, a 3 in the case of that topical song — “ Con-
stant Subscriber ”: A policeman with a search-warrant is
authorised to enter any house if he considers it necessary
so to do. But if you have any complaint to make in re-
gard to his having unnecessarily entered a woman’s bed-
room you should report him to the Colonial Secretary....
“ W.W.” : Yes, hut our talented friend John Farrell has
joined the Foreign Trade party just in time to witness its
end. He can soon write “ How it died.” “ S.S.”: The
fair fax of the miners’ strike aren't stated in the S. M.
Herald “ H. 1.” (Warrnambool Downs, Q.): Will pub-
lish when spaoe permits....“ Bushman ” (N.Q.): Will
rea d “ Unfortunate Friend of a Gunner” : Thanks
“ Haldone ” (Carlton): Probably next week.. “ Girondin ”
(Reedy Creek): Letter sent to your address....“ Brewer ”
(Sydney): Your incapacity is larger than an elephant,
and your incoherence is greater than the vast desert of
Sahara, and your diction is sadder than the dismal wash of
the Dead Sea which covers the sites of Sodom and Gom-
morrah. Lastly your intellect is clean gone like Tyre and
Sidon.. “ J.K.”: Many thanks.. “ Phluphums ” : Thanks..
“ Quandong ” : If you find the hospital-doctor drunk, get
several witnesses as to his condition, and when you have
sufficient evidence of it re pert him to the Government,
which subsidises the institution. The Inspector cf Charities
will look into the matter if the committee refuse to do so.
.... “ W.L.8.”: Wouldn’t it be fairer to look at the mat-
ter upside-down, and to say, not that “ man’s proper
home is where his wife is,” but that “ a woman’s proper
home is where her husband is,” because, you see, it is
“ the old man ” who has to get the living “ E.G.”:
“ Washerwoman ” received, letter posted.
Judging from the “ splurges ” and trans-
parent advertising dodges which are now being
worked in various directions it is pretty plain
that the two older daily evening newspapers of
Sydney are beginning to recognise that in the
Australian Star they have a formidable and
progressive competitor.
Geo. C. Miln’s impersonation of Richard
111. is so consistently good as to lead one to
imagine that it must be the outcome of a steady
and persistent course of study propped up by
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, a genuinely classic and
Shakespearian beverage.
The Barometer on the Wall.
The Queensland Government has laid violent
hands on another old tradition and have rent it
asunder, and there is confusion and senile amaze-
ment among the elevated Barnacles of England
at the conduct of the iconoclasts who are running
their Vandal administration by the shores of the
Brisbane River. The last few years have been
years of gradual disintegration in the British
Empire. The remote “possessions” of Queen
Victoria are every day showing further signs of
falling away from the crumbling centre of Im-
perial Government, and the “ bonds ” by which
the colonies are united to the mother-country, in
these degenerate days when Toryism totters on its
last legs on the biink of an abyss, are mostly links
of gilded ceremony and empty superstition. The
presence of British governors and admirals are
almost the only visible signs of British domi-
nation in Australia, and these twin impotent white
elephants of state are appointed by the Im-
perial Cabinet by way of asserting the right of
appointment and nothing more. The Queen’s re-
presentative in Australia is hung up as a moral
barometer on the wall to test the pressure of the
atmosphere of public opinion; like the instrument
which he represents, he records the state of the
Weather in the Eocial and pdlitical world, but
when he has done that the measure of his useful-
ness is completed, and his employers no more
dream of using him as a weapon with which
to quell the storm 3 of disaffection and discontent
than they would of shaking the material barometer
at a winter gale to reduce it to subjection. The
position of the modern British viceroy, as com-
pared with that of the loud-mouthed autocrat who
held the same office in years gone by, is the sign
of a woeful falling-away from the traditions of
old-time Toryism, and the latest insult which has
been heaved at the fetiches of the past has sud-
denly awakened the Barnacles of England to
the fact that the tide of Imperialism is still on the
ebb. Hitherto, however mean the status of a
oolonial Governor might be, no revolutionary
Cabinet has ever formally called in question the
right of the central Government to appoint the
clay god by which it is represented abroad, but
now the Nationalist Premier of Queensland has
announced the determination of that colony to
have a share in the hanging up of the Imperial
barometer with which the rise and fall of popular
“ loyalty ” are measured. A brief telegram in
the daily papers announces this new departure in
the tracks of sedition thus :
lb is reported that Sir Thomas M'llwraith, the Premier
of- Queensland, has intimated to Lord Knutsford, the
Secretary of State for the Colonies, that he expeots to be
consulted before a Governor is appointed to succeed the
late Sir Anthony Musgrave.
After thi*, it is safe to wager that Sir Thomas
MTlwraith will be consulted in the appoint-
ment of a new Governor. The conflict over
Kitts and over the two pairs of boots with
which that young man convulsed an entire
continent, has marked the Nationalist leader as a
man whom it is dangerous to ignore, and with this
new departure the day of Britain’s cxst-off poli-
ticians is virtually over in Queensland. The next
step will vest the appointment of the Governor
solely in the Cabinet; from the Cabinet the
patronage will drift into the hands of Parliament,
and from Parliament it will pass to the people at
large. Sir Thomas MTlwraith's action is the
beginning of a change which will gradually con-
vert the nominee Governor into the President of
the Republic of Queensland, and then the estab-
lishment of the United States of Australia is not
far off. The Tory Government of Britain is
powerless to prevent this consummation. Whether
it sees or does not see the end to which it is drift-
ing makes no difference in the issue. . The ser-
vility of a Barken, a Griffith, or a Gillies, the
superficial loyalty of poetic drivellers and corpu-
lent C.MG.s, is only the surface varnish which
hides the disaffection beneath; the masses are
true to the aspirations of Australian Nationalism,
and when a leader arises worthy of the people the
bogus “ devotion ” of New South Wales and Vic-
toria —the sentiment which lives only on the lying
lips of selfish politicians and narrow-souled toadies
—will vanish in a day. For the present the older
colonies are “loyal”—but Queensland also was
loyal until the National banner was lifted, and
then “ loyalty ” died, never to live again.
Mr. Percival Ball:
Percival Ball, the sculptor, developed great
artistic tastes at an early age and gained the two
first gold-medals ever awarded by South Kensing-
ton for modelling from life, and also the gold-
medal for any historical composition, and as the
latter was considered to be a most original con-
ception he was given a two-years scholarship of £25
per annum be3ide3 gaining the national medallion
for modelling for studies at the Lambeth Art school.
He gained in addition many other medals, and
distinctions of lesser importance, as well as a free-
studentshipto the Lambeth Schoolof Arts. In 1870,
Mr. Ball went to Paris, thence to Munich and Rome,
residing at the last-named city for eight years.
While there he executed many works in marble
which were exhibited at the London Royal
Academy and met with great commendation.
Amongst many other deservedly popular works
he produced at this time “ The First Lesson by
the Waters of Babylon,” and returning to Lon-
don modelled a bust of John Bright, for the
Reform Club jof Manchester, and many re-
presentation-works for institutions in various
parbs of England. Prominent amongst these
may be mentioned the monument to the
officers who were lost in the Punjaub, which
was placed in the Crypt of St. Paul’s Cathe-
dral, and a “Westminster Boy ”on drinking foun-
tain presented to the College grounds of West-
minster by the Baroness Burdett-Coutts. In
consequence of failing health Mr. Ball was com-
pelled to seek a less severe climate than that of
England, and therefore came to Australia in 1884.
He met with but scant encouragement on his
arrival in Sydney, although his merits as a
sculptor have always been generously acknow-
ledged by connoisseurs. Mr. Ball is now settled
in Melbourne, where he has received much
more appreciation and has numerous commissions
in hand from all the colonies. Amongst other
works on which he is now engaged is a
heroic statue of the Scotch hero, Sir William Wal-
lace, for the public gardens of Ballarat, a commis-
sion from the trustees of the late Mr. Thompson.
The statue represents Wallace standing in a
majestic attitude, leaning on his historic two-
handled sword, supposed to be intently watchingthe
movements of the English army before giving the
signal for the destruction of the bridge which was
to divide the enemy into two parts and thus place
them at his mercy. He has also in hand many
busts of public men—whom we may mention in
passing are much too often on the “ bust ” already
—and is designing a drinking-fountain to be
erected to the memory of the late Mr. Claxton
which is designed to grace the shores of Lake
Wendouree (Vic.)
"The Bulletin.”
We are now prepared to supply Half-yearly
Volumes of The Bulletin, from January 1, 1888,
to June 30, 1888, handsomely bound, for 325. 6d.,
carriage free.
The Bulletin Illustrated “ History of
Botany Bay ” now ready. All Australian book-
sellers. Price, One Shilling.
The celebrated New Reform Mine, Luck-
now, N.S.W., has a romantic history. The late
“ Bob” Frost three times purchased it for nil,
and three times sold it for £lO,OOO.
Bank-manager Jim Coates— still unmarried
—is the handsomest man in Auckland (N.Z);
George Humphries, a pressman, has the female
suffrage for Wellington; Hon. Tom Feyns is the
Otago Adonis; but in Christchurch, flat, earth-
quake-riven Christchurch, the men are all as
handsome as Grecian statues, and every second
man you meet in Cathedral Square could “ travel
on his pretty.”
Mr. Hecker, of Taradale (Tic.) tried to
commit suicide the other day by hitting himself
f .olently on the head wrh a flat-iron. The scheme
m’ssed fire, however, and Hecker was found un-
c mscious though not seriously damaged, with the
fl it-iron still clutched in his hand and a look of
surprise spread over his features. Next time he
wants to depart from this sphere of human useful-
ness he intends to bash himself in the chest with
a spade and see how that will answer.
Dr. Conon Doyle, whoever he may be,
has published an elaborate calculation showing
that one out of every 22,000 Scotchmen, one of
31,000 Englishmen, and one of 49,000 Irishmen
rises to distinction. Ye-es ! Just so ! And, by
the way, what is distinction (unless it consists in
paying a newspaper to say you are a great man)
and how much is the beastly thing worth when
you have got it ? Also, what’s the best way of
getting rid of it again ?
Bathurst Free Press asks, “What is
Truth?” We cordially congratulate our contem-
porary. When a newspaper is dissatisfied with
itself it is on the high road to improvement. The
Free Press wants to find out, and from this we
presume that it intends to use the thing when it
finds it. Most of the other papers don’t want to
find out at a I', and if the article the Free Press
is asking for came along of its own accord they
would only have to pay storage on it.
Dear Bulletin, — May I enquire if (now
that the remains of Deniehy have been ac-
corded Christian burial after a lapse of 23 years),
Mr. Peter White, who charitably read prayers
over little Dan at the “dog ” burial, thereby in-
curring the displeasure of the R C. Church, and
who died a week afterwards, can now have the
same boon (Christian burial) extended to himself.
The performance of the solemn office might enable
poor Peter to squeeze out of Purgatory. Will
Dan O’Connor kindly use his influence?—R.C.
The Mackay (Q.) Banner has furled itself
up and put itself away in a dusty corner to wait
for better days. Things have gone badly with the
Banner, and it has been jumped into the dirt of
misfortune and hung out to dry in the cold breeze
of public disfavour. It states these facts in a long
paragraph of sorrow and woe, and in conclusion it
writes its own obituary in these words.—
We retire with a graoeful jierk from the journilist'e
arena, assuring our readers, as we do so, that we hope in
the near future, under brighter auspice s, to once again
unfurl the Banner of Democracy and Independence in
Mackay. *
All things considered, the “ graceful jerk ” isn’t so
bad.
Speaking of the utter “ nervelessness ” of
the Chinese a writer in the North China Herald
points out that it matters nothing to the average
Chinkie how long he remains in the one position.
He will stand all day at his carpentering, or sit all
day at his writing or weaving, and at night, with
nothing but a brick for his pillow and a strip of
matting for his bed, he will fall at once into a
sound sleep, utterly regardless of any racket that
may be raised around him. He requires no
darkened room to assist him to woo “Nature's
sweet restorer,” neither does position make any
difference to him, for it would be easy to raise an
army in China of 10 million men, each of whom
could and would cheerfully go to sleep stretched
across a wheelbarrow, head downwards, like a
spider, his mouth wide open and a fly inside.
Chinese school children will undergo an amount
of confinement and monotonous study that would
drive Western scholars mad, and even the Chinese
babies sit wherever they are dumped, and remain
a 3 impassive as so many little mud gods.
Editor Bulletin. — Sir, —ln a recentissuel
noticed a par. relating to the storming of Orakau
in the Maori war. You attribute to Rewi the
words, “We will fight for ever and ever and
ever. ” An ex-sergeant of the 18bh Royal Irish
who took part in that glorious affair, gave me the
following account of the engagement some time
ago. W hen the Maoris, who were hopelessly out-
numbered, were asked by the General through
interpreter Mainwaring to surrender, they simply
shouted, “Give us some tobacco.” Then they
made a desperate rush and the troops shot down
175 men, women and children, the remainder
escaping through the swamp. A reward was out
for Rewi dead or alive, and as he was described
as one-eyed, the soldiers made a rush for the dead
and examined their eyes but without success, for
Rewi survived and I believe was, until a few years
ago, in receipt of a pension from the N. Z. Govern-
ment. A number of red coats were, it is stated,
killed by the cross-fire, being in a great state of
excitement. There is a probability of yours being
the correct version, as the Maori for “ever” is
“aki.” My informant used the term “ baccy.” I
give you this for what it is worth.— Melbourne.
One of the most popular men In a certain
N.S.W. Western town is the local manager for
Cobb and Co. He has been Mayor of his town,
and a most useful one he proved to be. He was;
once a party to a comical wager. At the Royal
were assembled some remarkably smart Sydney
men, who imagined they could take liberties
with the unsophisticated Teddy. Among the
“ catch ” pastimes introduced were feats of
strength, and Teddy aforesaid wagered £5, the
hospital to benefit by it, that no Sydney man could
lift him off the ground from a recumbent position
by the hair.of the head. The wager was taken up
and Teddy stretched himself out to earn money
for the poor. The Sydney athlete tucked up his
sleeve, and laid hold of the flowing auburn locks
of the prostrate man, and, with a “ long pull and
a strong pull and a pull all together,” he landed
himself on the broad of his back in a far coiner of
the room. On gathering himself together, and
being helped into a perpendicular position again,
he found the other fellow still recumbent and his
head bald and shining as Micawber’s. His
ringlets were of the moveable order, and the
Sydney man’s simple faith in human hair had
consequently brought him low.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.—“ The Tomboy ” p. 14.
Her Majesty’s.— “ Richard 111. ” ~
Alhambra. —Minstrelsy ~
Oriteeion. —“ In Chancery ” ~
Haymarket Music Hall.— Faust Family... ~
On Saturday last, at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), Mr. Geo. C. Miln took in the painted
Cardinal of a past age and hung out the hump-
backed Gloster, who, with all his hideousness, ap-
pears to have been the only man in the whole epoch.
Mr. Miln is evidently the advance agent of a
Sccialistic brotherhood, for during bis recent
season in Sydney he has done nothing but hold up
to public scorn the aureoled heads that affect to
wear crowns, and in nine cases out of ten fail in
the effort. Hamlet killed a king, Richelieu ruled
with an iron hand a king, and Richard of Gloater
paints, in his own person, in all the lurid tints of
Cocytus that base, crowned, sceptred thing men
call a king. There is, however, something about
Richard that raises him far, far above the modern
brand of throned flesh that apes at monarchy, and
that something is courage and wit, daring and
statecraft. Nobody would insult the ghost of the old
crooked savage by comparing him with the effete
and sapless dandies of to day who masquerade in
warlike weeds —at sham fights Mr. Miln’s Gloster
is very different from either his Hamlet or his
Richelieu. He essays to be revolting but succeeds
in impressing upon the audience the conviction
that he could by no possible means have been
wrong. The age must have been mistaken.
Richard must have been born before his time
and people did not properly understand him.
His practical Christianity, too, in sending people
to heaven just when he thought they were fit for
it is a tremendous advance on the methods of the
average pawnbroker of the present century. In
the scene in which Richard woos the Lady Anne at
the bier-side of her murdered father-in-law, the
finest scene in theplay, Mr. Milnachievedagenuine
triumph and made one of the most monstrous
things in art appear reasonable and true to nature.
In the scene where, in a suit of glittering scale
armour, he is stayed by his mother and his brother’s
queen and heartily cursed, Mr. Miln looked a
thorough warrior of that mailed age, and Henry Y.
Rignold will have to look to it. A a the tearful Lady
*Anne, widow of the murdered Edward, wooed and
won and briefly worn by t he cruelest of Plantagenets,
Mrs. Miln (Mis 3 Louise Jordon) looked charm-
ingly picturesque, and acted with great natural-
ness. Miss Fitzroy queened it with
success in the tank-eyed part of Edward s consort,
and Athena Claudius, as the Fifth Edward, did
better than ever she has done before.
Mr. Jewett, with the Leichhardt tram-
signal gleaming on his breast, filled the
small part of Richmond in such a manner
as to make us wish there had been more of
it, an disappeared j,in 'such a get-up as to allow
the horrible suspicion to steal across one’s mind
that Richard —not such a bad sort, after all, in the
green-room—had generously given his rival a very
e onsiderable part of his lovely armour in order
that he might slay him (Richard) with becoming
eclat. Buckingham, in the hands of Mr. Walter
Howe, was pretty enough for a doll’s house, but
Mr. Howe never seems to strike the bard ground
outside the melodrama of the modern tram-motor.
The whole burden of the piece practically falls on
the shoulders of Mr. Miln, and nobly he staggers
beneath it. The scenery is incongruous, and has
already done duty in a dozen shows, and the
whole terrible intestine struggle that rent England
in twain is held up by 12 Rupers, in two armies of
six each. The horrid mouth of war has had its
teeth drawn !
*# * #
“Bubbles ” and “ In Chancery ” make up
a respectable double-bill at Sydney Criterion this
week. “ Bubbles” is an unsatisfactory little effort
in one act, and its leading characters are a father
named Hogg who came out of “ Our Boys,” and a
commercial swell called indifferently Tallboy,
Smallboy, Small weed, Tallkid, Shortboy, Longboy,
Thickboy, and various other terms indicating boys
of various sizes, who appeared to better advantage
when we first met his double in “Still Waters
Run Deep.” The purpose of the piece is to show
how the slimy Smallboy set himself deliberately
to clean out Bob Hogg, son of old Hogg, by
inducing him to take shares in a certain wild-
cat enterprise, and how this conduct brought sor-
row to the heart of Polly Hogg who deserved better
treatment, but as the misfortunes of the honest
though simple-minded and uncultured Hoggs of the
earth have been dealt with at great length in other
dramas the present Hogg will now be permitted
to drop. “In Chancery,” fortunately, is a change
for the better, and when the audience have struck
the granite caves of drivel at the bottom of a great
sea of mortal Hogg it is a relief to return to the
surface once more. Pinero’s comedy is scientific
in its tendencies, and explains how a man may
lose his memory by being hit on the head at a
junction, and how troubles may afterwards arise
through his waking up at a hotel and being quite
unable to recollect whether he is a curate or a
pirate or a vegetarian or an executioner or a
bloodthirsty criminal of the deepest ferocity. He
isn’t even positive about his own name, and
doesn’t care to show himself in the streets, being
uncertain whether is is wanted by the police or
whether he is a monarch, and he looks for himself
in directories and couit guides and other sources
of general information and can’t find himself any-
where. None of the crowned heads of Europe
Rave be?n mislaid recently; there is no news about
any duke having gone out after dark and not
come back again ; no commander-in-chief has been
swallowed up mysteriously in the abyss of the un
knowable —in fact nobody with a vast salary has
dropped out of any of the walks of industry, and
the only clue to the position is an advertisement
offering a reward of £2OO for the apprehension of
a fair man 5 feet 10 inches high. When he reads
this the victim rises and takes to flight. He
leaves behind him a bill of £156 Bs. 4d. for six
weeks board and lodging; he abandons a virgin
weighing 2501b5. whom he was about to lead to
the altar as the only means of settling the accountin
question—a lovely thing of air and blushes who rolls
along on the surface of the lean earth and who, when
she has made up her mind to remain on a given
spot, could only be shifted by a limited liability
company and a steam crane; he flies from his
future father-in-law, an incarnate torrent of bad
Irish language who is filled with a perpetual
craving to shoot the whole human race with an
old horse-pistol; and he takes along with him a
lady that he never saw before, under the impres-
sion that she is a wife whom he married uncon-
sciously before he forgot all about things in general
and was reduced to trying to identify himself by
the initials on the collar of his shirt. The rest of


£1 Deposit will secure Good Building Site,
Everleigh Estate, Perth, West Australia.
Don’o neglect this opportunity of making money.
Plans, W. J. Douglas, 96 Batnurst-st., Sydney.
Fishing-Nets, all sorts and sizes, at the Fishing
Depot, Eastway’s, 411 George-street, Sydney.
£1 Deposit will secure Good Building Site,
Everleigh Estate, Perth, West _ Australia.
Don’t neglect this opportunity of making money.
Plans, W. J, Douglas, 96 Bathurst-st., Sydney.
£iOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
Visited Daily by Large and Fashionable Audiences.
SATURDAY NEXT. SATURDAY NEXT.
Opening Day of the
FIRST TOBO««AXIJiti RINK
In Australia, now meeting with such enormous success in
all parts of England and America.
Sunday Kent—lie Pettier Afternoon Concert.
Popular Artistes. Popular Music.
Miss TILLY SALINGER, who received a most enthusiastic
reception last Sunday;
Miss ACTON BLAIR, the favourite Contralto ;
Mr. J. C. Arthur, Mr. A. Barry and Mr. \V. IValshe
(the Australian Tenor).
The Quintette String Band will perform a select pro-
gramme of musio on the Lawn during the afternoon.
Prices as Usual. S3T Frequent Trams.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
bhe evening is spent in a desperate endeavour to
sort out the various lunatics from the heap, the
best and loveliest items in the great mass of
human derangement being Misses Myra Kemble,
Maggie Oliver —as the 2501 b. virgin—and
Ida Herbert, and two walking shrieks of
unnatural mirth in the persons of Robert Brough
and G. W. Anson. The latter gentleman, in par-
ticular, is a yell of unholy joy from start to finish,
and by comparison with him dynamite is a harm-
less eatable, and a midnight riot in a public-house,
ending in the death of all concerned and the ruin
of the establishment, is an instrument of perpetual
peace and the surest road to the eternal bowers of
Paradise. Even his moments of profound mental
calm are calculated to drown the voice of an
81-ton gun, and when he is roused only the pre-
carious state of his health prevents him devouring
the whole house and stamping on the bones. Un-
less his voice gives out under the strain, “In
Chancery” will have a fortnight’s run at the
Criterion.
*# * #
The Haymarkeb Music Hall (Sydney)
opened last Saturday with a look of affliction
clinging to its walls. The new establishment is
shaped rather like a coffin, and is large enough to
swing a cat in, provided there is nothing morbid
about the proportions of the cat or the other cir-
cumstances attaching to the animal, and it is
ornamented in a chaste and simple style of art
with half a pound of paint. Among its other
troubles the new institution is called upon to sup-
port a “ lessee and manager,” a “stage manager,”
and a “ general manager,” which is an awful lot
of manager for a place of its dimensions, and there
is a faint, wandering something in the air which
suggests that the three managers have opened
before they are dry. The company includes
Among its other attractions the famous Faust
Family* a combination which has so far always
succeeded in gathering in the shekels in
Australia ; and the performances of this
branch of the human race make up for a lot of
singing which is sorrowful to contemplate, and
jokes that are like unto the extinct megatherium
and the forgotten labyrinthodon pachynathus and
other ancient frogs which have long names heaved
at their dust now that they can no longer rise
and defend themselves, and they also compen-
sate for the inanity of sundry black specialists
whose humour is as dead as the gable wall
of a parish workhouse. In short, the
Fausts prevent the Bhow being dust and ashes at
both ends, and in so doing they earn the fervent
thanks of an audience which, without them, would
be worse left than it is. When one or two
of the minstrels are satisfactorily buried as a
warning to the rest the Haymarket show may
possibly attain to greatness, but until something
like that happens it cannot soar to any great
moral elevation. Further criticism is withheld
for the present, but we will look in from time to
time and shake a club at the least deserving
members of the show.
** # #
The Show boom of next week, in Sydney,
will be the exhibition at Bondi of a troupe of
genuine Maori. dancerß, which arrives by the s.s.
Hauroto from N.Z. to-morrow (Friday). The
concern is being run by a syndicate of N.Z. legis-
lators, prominent amongst whom is Mr. Dick
Reeves, the genial member for Inangahua. The
Maoris belong to the warlike Ngatimaniopoto
tribe, and until about five years ago were under
the ban of outlawry for being concerned in the
White Cliffs massacre. There was for 20
years a reward on the head of their chief,
Wetere te Rerenga— Anglice, Wesley the Snag
—and many of the tribesmen, but secure in their
fastnesses amidst the mountains and forests of
the Mokau country they defied pursuit, and at
last the Hon. John Bryce, the Native Minister,
“whitewashed” them with a general amnesty,
which also included Te Kooti, the leader of the
Poverty Bay massacre. These Maoris are adepts
in their native dances, including the haka, and
their rythmic love songs and war songs once heard
will not easily be forgotten.
• • •
Meat of the other Sydney shows are in
the future tense. Next Saturday “ The Miner’s
Daughter ” appears at the Royal, when the tank
will be turned into a gold-mine and old parent
Smith will wrest mineral wealth from what was
once the rolling tide of New York Harbour, and
Carrie Swain will reveal herself in her popular
character as the tattered, unshod child of the
Sieiras. On Friday Mr. George Miln bids fare-
well to Her Majesty’s, and the void left by the
vanishment of this brilliant actor will be partially
filled by Mr. G. Rignold and Miss Kate Bishop
in the “ Rajah,” described as a comedy-drama in
four acts. On Monday next the “ Kosmotech-
nika ” commences to scream at the New Masonic
Hall Judging from the name we at first took
this to be a carnivorous animal eight feet long
and of great diameter, but on further study
of the advertisement it proves to have some-
thing to do with pictures. We assume that
something will happen in the next world to a
man who goes about wantonly inventing names
like that. Sydney Dickenson lectures in connec-
tion with this volcanic noun and there are 64 of it,
whatever it is. It is also guaranteed not to blow
up. A corroboree of 40 alleged natives from the
Clarence River will take place to night (Thurs-
day) and Friday at the Carington Grounds, and
the Crystal Palace Skating Rink, not having any
foreign savages at present on hand, lives chiefly
by advertising the long-expected Wyburd benefit
on the 31st inst.
JL JL JL X
*7v* *7v* *7v* *7v*
Melbourne shows, now In the thick of the
“ Carnival ” season, are running for all they are
worth. On Saturday the Italians, brought over by
Mr. Martin Simonsen, lifted up their voices at the
Opera House with fine effect. “Ernani” was
produced in better style, regarded as a spectacle,
than marked the successful Alexandra p9rform-
ances of Mr. Simonsen’s late company, neverthe-
less the old enthusiasm was wanting on this oc-
casion, and an indescribable something seemed to
suggest the advisability of making more extensive
arrangements to catch the lively shilling. If
’twere done, ’twere well ’twere done quickly, be-
fore a deserving enterprise has time to take a chill.
Compared with their predecessors the new arrivals
fairly hold their own —in stage presence they
are an improvement. The tenor, Signor
Ditnitresco, is a manly, dramatic singer, who
seems always equal to his music, but not a whale
at top notes. Signor Mancini, who sings bass, is
beery good in all pints, and our old friend, Pimaz-
zoni, has come back to Melbourne a really excel-
lent performer. The Soprano, Signorina Ajmo, is
somewhat of a disappointment so far, for her
voice, described in untechnical terms, seems too
shrill and piercing to please the multitude. Small
parts were sufficiently filled, and the chorus put an
unusual amount of life into a tout ensemble, which
only required a larger and more cultivated
orchestra to make it very imposing. For Wed-
nesday the management announced an English
company (including Miss Lilian Tree) in “ The
Kos© of Castile,” meanwhile the distinguished
foreigners are getting up their strength for a fresh
effort.
** # #
“ Sophia’s ” return to the Bijou is another
circumstance which causes the burst-up backer of
horses to feel that there is something left in life
besides the cold, dark, slimy river, one hasty
plunge, an inquest, and half a column of howling
Evenin’ ’Ekald. “ Sophia ”is invariably ac-
cepted as a good play, and The Bulletin, there-
fore, refrains from further reflecting on the charac]
ter of its hero, T. Jones. But what there can be
about that snivelling, helpless, tawdry loafer upon
charity to induce a long-headed barber to wash his
miserable shirts is beyond all understanding.
Three changes in the first Melbourne cast leave a
balance on the right side. Mr. A. R. Lawrence
is a better Blifil than Phil. Beck, and the name
part gives Miss Lilian Gilmour another oppor-
tunity to score a gentle triumph. But her in-
fatuation for Tom Jones is as inexcusable as the
wstrm adoration of Lady Bellaston and the devo-
tion of Partridge. Miss Broilgh, Titheradge, and
all the originals have improved where there was
room.
*# # *
The Princess’s dropped from “ Cymbeline”
to “Olivette” on Saturday night, and the dood-
lings (who have been lying torpid since the Gaiety
girls left them in an impoverished condition
crawled up in their thousands to see a man with a
stiff knee stump around under the impression that
EL[?] P[?]
MISS KATE ALMA,
1
he had inadvertently got married to a delightfu
young thing in short bridal skirts and a good dea
of silk stocking. “ Olivette ” is more Frenchy
than funny, but it contains enough Nellie Stewart
to satisfy all reasonable requirements, and will
keep the Triumvirate’s “ beautiful summer palace
theatre ” (advt.) full for a fortnight, after which
other operas are to come and go with de-
lirious rapidity until December 22nd. All
the old familiar faces appear as aforetime.
Mr. Knight Aston, whose stiff knee is rather
tiring, Mr. Leumane, who acts better and warbles
worse, Mr. Howard Vernon, Miss Fanny Lid-
diard, and the artless Aggie Kelton. They are
all there, assisted by Blueskin Royce, late of the
enemy’s forces. “ Hands Across the Sea ” goes on
same as usual at the Royal, and when the noble
British captain defies the ignoble French ditto to
touch somebody, and instructs his gallant seamen
to haul up the flag because Britons never shall be
slaves—then the pent-up emotions of the daunt-
less heroes in the gallery find vent in profuse
expectorations.
»* # *
At the Alexandra a due proportion of
current carnival rallied round the Dampiers, and
wept heavily for Margaret Catchpole, but as the
bill will probably be changed again on Saturday,
there is nothing of burning interest to say concern-
ing “ An English Lass,” except that the drama is
afflicted with a colourless title. Why not call it
“Lags Across the Sea,” and advertise a verse
bearing on nothing in particular ? “The Brook ”
is still introducing a real shower of rain—attended
by real limelight and a real thundering noise—at
St. George’s Hall, and Frank Clark has Ouda
h anging on the air by one toe, at the Victoria.
Also Wirth Brothers intend to let their Equescur-
riculum loose upon the “ Carnival ” this evening
(25th) in Swanston-street.
#* # *
The Jungfrau Kapelle, who have jodelled
their joyous way back again to Melbourne, made
a further impression at the Athemeum on Satur-
day night. Those unassuming and picturesque
Swiss make the same sweet melody as of yore, and
their performances upon weird instruments strike
new chords in the human heart. The Athenaeum
has been taken for one calendar month by Messrs.
Hughes and Jinkins, and this breezy entertain-
ment should fill the exchequer with monotonous
regularity until the hardy mountaineers have done
their appointed time.
## * #
Show business in Adelaide is as depressing
as the city of blessed calm could well make it. At
the Royal, Bland Holt has produced “Taken
from Life ” in magnificent style, supported by a
company of incalculable horse power. Mrs. Bland
Holt made her first appearance in Adelaide in this
drama, and the caste, in addition to the genial
Bland, includes Blanche Lewis, Mabel Tracey, H.
N. Douglas, Gus. Glover, Hans Phillips, Charley
Holloway, &c. “ The World ” follows. Hiscocks
and Friedmann have grown tiired of doing bad
business at Garner’s, and wind up earlier than
anticipated. Even the Fisk Singers have been
neglected, and this fact may be taken as clear evi-
dence of the unsatisfactory state of things
financial in the home of praise and prayer.
## # #
American papers having referred to Louise
Beaudet as “ Mrs. Daniel Bandmann’’—the real
Mrs. D. (one-time pretty Milly Palmer) came for-
ward to explain that “ the person in question is
not my husband’s wife.” Louise Beaudet is well
remembered in Sydney as a promising young
actress who was palpably under Bandmann s
peculiar mesmeric spell. We congratulate her
upon not being Mrs. Bandmann’s husband’s wife,
because in such case that unpleasant-looking
genius isn’t legally entitled to whack her.
*# # #
Many Australian ladies cherish tender re-
collections of Walter Everard, the nice young man
whom Brough and Boucicault brought out from
England with their original company. At latest
dates Everard was billed as part author of a new
farcical comedy—“ Uncles and Aunts : ’ —which
had just been produced at a London theatre.
After the curtain descended on the inauguration
of “ Uncles and Aunts” someone came forward
and solicited a free and independent verdict on
the show. Only one man said it was “rot,” and
when he had recorded his vote the deputy-assist-
ant-sub-acting-manager smote him heavily on the
organ of smell. He who tells the truth is lost,
now-a-days. The truth is not mighty and it will
not prevail.
* * #
The New York Herald moralises :
London gossips are puzzled over the identity of a com-
pletely pretty girl who drives in Rotten-row in carriages
emblazoned with the crest of the Duke of Portland. It
might ease their anxiety to know that the fair-haired
beauty is none other than Miss Jennie M'Nulty, who
played ducks and drakes with dudish hearts when with
the Adonis company at the Bijou. Josie Ball wedded to.
a German baron, Arias Jl'Nulty sporting' the arms of the
house of Portland, Adelaide Detchon whistling her way
into the company of lords, the gipsy-like I>e Lussan
carolling a career for herself among the belles and blades,
of Belgravia, Mary Anderson declining coronets as dis-
dainfully as though they were stale buns, Martinot snub-
mg princes from the door of her Paris salon—what a,
great people we are, to be sure !
The Bulletin Illustrated “ History of
Botany Bay ” now ready. All Australian book-
sellers. Price, One Shilling.
Among the murdered women whose fate
has recently filled London with horror was on©
whose mutilated body was discovered concealed
in a building which is being erected as a police-
station. Even an assassin is humorous at times.
A full, true, and particular account of the
squabbles of the shareholders of the now cele-
brated Australian Banking Co., Limited, of Syd'
ney, would make charming reading. It is a pity
that the daily Press fails to keep the public au
courant with the affairs of this noble corporation.
Sydney E, News makes much capital out
of the unpardonable blunder which the Star com-
mitted by confusing the mention of Napoleon in
Emperor Frederick’s diary with Napoleon at St.
Helena, and sneers particularly at the ignorance
of the youthful sub editor. As the latter spent a
not inconsiderable portion of his life in the Noozffi
office the sneer only comes home as curses are said
to do.
One Jackson, writing In the Lancet on
the “Psychology of Joking,” explains that the
process of mentation in the maniac is but a cari-
cature of stereoscopic and diploptic mentation in
healthy people, fn other words, the ravings of
the maniac and the pleasantries of the punster
have the same mechanism. For frightful examples
of “ stereoscopic and diploptic mentation ” see the
alleged “ wit and humour ” columns in the Sydney
Sunday papers.
From the Even Nooze :
A GENTLEMAN having hypothecated his gold
hunting Rotherham LEVER, Diamond Ring and
I’in, through adverse oircumstances, cannot Redeem.
Sell duplicates cheap.
Pawned I Spouted ! Popped ! Foil! a fico for
such phrasep. “Hypothecated” the wise and re-
spectably-connected call it. Mortimer Franklyn,
(with a “ y ”), Esquire, set the fashion.
That beautiful bungle, iheN.S.W. Licens-
ing Act, has sprung another leak. A Mrs. Hay,
of Penrith, was recently fined £3O for selling
liquor without a license. She appealed to the
Parramatta Licensing Court the other day, but
her appeal was refused on the grounds that the
asinine Act stipulates that all such appeals must be
made to the Quarter Sessions held in the districb
where the case was tried. As no Quarter Sessions
is held in the Penrith Licensing District, and as
many other districts are in the same fix, it
naturally follows that persons who live in these
places and are brought up for breaches of the
Licensing Act can obtain a very great deal of law
but very little justice.
The Rev. J. R. Hu'chinson, late a teller
of glad tidings tD the perspiring heathen on
Africa’s golden sands, returned to Nova Scotia
last summer in order to strengthen his constitution
for renewed labours in the distant vineyard. Tne
Baptist Church of Nova Scotia received Brother
Hutchinson with a demonstrative snuffle and many
buns were scoffed in his honour. He lectured on
the saving power of the Word, and generally
walked in the ways of the just, until a soft-eyed
gazelle, named Gertie Smith, did tempt him, after
which they eloped together down the narrow path,
leaving the Rev. Mrs. Hutchison and child to
muse upon the waywardness of the flesh. At
latest dates the whole of Nova Scotia was very
much upset, and the wrath of Heaven was in
course of being called down upon Gertie’s pretty
little head. It is a sad business —especially for
the heathen, who sib on the golden sands waiting
for the shepherd who will nevermore drop them
in the fountain —bub nothing else could be ex-
pected. Hutchinson is described as a “ brilliant
man and a successful author.” Every real genius
flutters off with a Gertie, once in a way.
The Bradstreet Company of New York,
whatever or whoever that may be, has recently
issued circulars to a number of business men
throughout New Zealand which have made the
recipients long to get a shot at it with a stone.
The circular contains a number of queries to each
of which an answer is wanted. It inquires blandly
the full name and age of the person addressed,
whether he is married or single, what is his pre-
sent occupation, what was his occupation before
he took to his present occupation, how much
capital he has got, and where the deuce he got it,
has he ever failed, if so, where did he do it and
when did the thing come about, how much he
owed and what became of it and likewise wby the
thing that became of it did become of it, also the
amount of any bills of sale which may exist upon
his stock, how much he is worth, and who are his
principal creditors. It finishes up with the brief
inquiry : “ How is business ?" and adds that it
will be glad if the person addressed will kindly
fill up the document at once and return it to the
aforesaid Bradstreet Company of New York,
which will treat the information as strictly confi-
dential. So far the replies have consisted mainly
of written and printed blasphemy, and a general
impression is abroad that the company is a huge
lunatic or else is out for a lark. A few, however,
regard it as a genuine concern with a thirst for
useless information, and these gentlemen are now
busy signing other people’s names to the printed
forms, and filling in information which tells how
these other people started business with nothing
and now owe £lOO,OOO, bub hope to ge bright when
they have a fire after they have got the insurance
properly fixed.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW THE
host forms uguos
IN TBE
AUBTRALUN COLON!FS.
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery
The qual.ty is exceptionally good, and the price very low.
Exhibition Visitors ought to oarry handkerohiefs because
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Prrfumbry Co.’s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition. All Melbourne
s on this Scent.
WHY???
WHY ? ? ?
WHY ? ? ?
WHY ? ? ?
WHY ? ? ?
WHY ? ? ?
WHY ? ? ?
WHY ? ? ?
WHY???
WHY do I have this drowsy, lifeless
feeling ? WHY do I have a Backache
WHY Neuralgia and Rheumatism
WHY does Scrofulous taint and Ery-
sipelas show itself ?
???????????????????????? v ? v v v»
BECAUSE jour blood is filled with
Poison, which must be Completely
Eradicated before you can regain
health. You must go to the root of the
matter. Put the Kidneys—the great and
only blood purifying organs—in complete
order, which is complete health, and
w ith
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
and WARNERS SAFE PILLS your
Cure is Certain.
????????????????????????”””
WHY do we
BECAUSE
sands of
and women
of the world
tarily written
? ? know this?
? ? tens of thou-
? ? grateful men
? ? in all parts
? ? have volun-
? ? to us to this
effect.
There is no stand still in disease.
You are either growing Better or Worse.
How is it with YOU ?
??????????? ???????????V’?’?9V9
WHY not to-day resort to that medi-
cine, which has veritably Cured Mil-
lions, and which will cure you if you
will give it a chance ?
All of Warner’s preparations are Purely
Vegetable. They are made on honor.
They are time-tried. They have proved
their superiority. Give them a chance
to cure you.
The Brickbat.
(Slung by Titus Salt.)
Osman Digna, according to the cableman,
is at present alive. He has been killed often, and
has died frequently, and been mortally wounded
many times ; he has been utterly routed on innu-
merable occasions, and decimated repeatedly, and
lie has sometimes perished. Also he has been ex-
terminated too numerous to mention, bub at pre-
sent he is alive The only thing that has hap-
pened to him of late is that he has been driven
into the bush, and, considering that he has been
accustomed to be driven as much as !)8 miles in a
day this sort of thing must give him a rest. He
has 2000 men with him just now, and as he is
usually either totally deserted and silently boiling
liis lonely billy inthedeserb, or else is accompanied
by 100,000 troops, this must come quite easy to him.
In fact, present signs indicate that Osman is hav-
ing a spell. The cable states that “it is ex-
pected the enemy will make a fresh at-
tack on Friday,” but that doesn’t amount
to anything, for Osman, when the cable has
roused him to fury, is, as a rule, going to
make a fresh attack every day for a year,
and the rest of the time he is so utterly
crushed that he is never going to attack
anything any more, and the fact that he is
going to keep calm till Friday is renewed evi-
dence that he is nob in bis best form. He has
“cannonaded” Suakim a little of late, but that
doesn’t matter much ; there have been times when
Osman was out for the day, and when he was
dropping kegs of dynamite and tons of melted lead
and 1000 gallon tanks full of blazing kerosene on
to Suakim, and casting putrefying whales into it
to infect the inhabitants, and he has repeatedly
torn down the gates with his teeth and carried
them away, and at other times he has been so de-
pressed that he could only lie down and throw one
lump of mud in a week, so that he is only in good
average condition at present, and there is nothing
to be worried about. Osman, in short, is taking
easy exercise, and is obviously saving his wind
for some fresh cablegrams.
* • «
A valued correspondent writes to The
Bulletin regarding something which happened
lately in New Zealand, and after various attempts,
in which prayer and human agency were mingled
together, to ascertain what it was about the com-
munication is run in bodily as follows :
Dear Bulletin, — This story is true in every particular
as you will see by the N.Z. papers. The deteetives have
not been able to make anything of it, and they now in-
sinuate that the story is not true, but there can be no
doubt the man was robbed, his throat cut and thrown
into the sea, either that or he did it himself to account
for the money. Anyway he got married on Tuesday, as
stated to one of the nicest barmaids extant, Miss
Murphy.
Having climbed high up in a blighted tree to get
out of the way of a dangerous lunatic we offer
these sentiments for the public perusal. The
place where the event happened bas been left out,
and the date is not given, and the man who threw
his throat into the sea to account for the money
has no name and is only the shadow of a dead
pronoun, but still an air of tragedy broods over
the item, and the shadow of a gore-ensanguined
spook is reflected upon the dead wall of the corres-
pondent’s thinking faculties. And the spook
grows larger, and the shadow darker when
we observe that the victim was married on
Tuesday, the fact of his marriage having been
mentioned to Miss Murphy. This event appar-
ently took place after he had thrown his throat
into the sea to account for the money, and, conse-
quently, we can only presume that the bridegroom
appeared at the altar in two pieces, and carrying
his head in his hand. It seems hardly possible
that the after life of a man who wss wedded under
such conditions could bp a happy one. He might,
of course, hang his head on the gas-pipe when he
went to bed at night, but it would always be liable
to fall down and roll under the wash stand, and
he would have to keep awake and watch lest any-
thing should go wrong with it, and even if he laid
it on top of the chest of drawers he would always
feel uneasy about it. "When be was having a bath,
too, it is an open question where he w ould put it
while he was reaching for the soap, and if he had
the soap in one band the chances are tbat be
would have to lay it on the floor so that he could
take the flannel in the other. Why he sho dd
have made such a facrifice to account for the
money is a deep and difficult problem. Money
can always be accounted for by any man who
knows bow to keep books by double entry—a sys-
tem by which all the expenses are entered twice
over, while the cash isn’t entered at all if it can be
avoided, and the man who would be reduced to
throwing his breathing organs into the sea to ac-
count for cash is too ignorant for anything. But,
after all, the whole yarn may be only an adver-
tisement for Miss Murphy.
• - -
Broken Hill is afflicted with a scarcity of
water. The whisky holds out yet, and the crystal
gin still flows like a rising lide of joyfulness;
there are schnapps upon the mountains and the
saddle-coloured beer rises in the east, but the in-
habitants do not appreciate these blessings as
they ought to do, and they want water. Like the
Hebrew grumblers in the wilderness they com-
plain that there is fusel in the whisky, and that
the gin tastes like liquid Sheol served out by an
unkempt barmaid at Od. a blaze. A red-headed
devil lurks in tbe schnapps ; and the beer is
flavoured with cockroaches and spiders, and the
rats crawl into the kegs to add tone to the
liquor, and somebody puts lost pussies in
it to give it “body” dead body—and
amid tbe driving clouds of dust and curses
and balf-bricks and abandoned scrip of the
Lost Sheep silvtr claim the parched citizens
scud before the blast and demand water. But it
isn’t to be bad. The beer that lias gone flat and
sour is touched up with red ink arc! sold as colonial
wine, and in Ihe leading hotels a dejected waiter
nowand then asks the wandering travf lie r if he
will ’ave ’ock, and occasionally a stranger is mad
enough to say that ’ock is just the particular vision
of happiness that lie most pines after, and then he
is supplied with something which he is sorry
about for a long time afterwards. Outside in the
street there is a fair average of eight free fights
going on at once, and somewhere outside the town
an old gaunt bull with a crumpled horn struggles
to get his hind legs out of a mud-hole, which hole
is the last visible remains of the Broken Hill water
supply. But the citizens don’t seem to appreciate
these blessings as they ought, and they still howl
for water and refuse to bs comforted.
•
A horrible story of man’s deception is told
in a (Queensland paper—a story of a blinded
scoffer, and a woman, and a bishop, and a low
and depraved shuffle which the two first-mentioned
played upon the other to the undoing of his
respectability and the unhinging of his soul.
Sometime in the days of long ago the bishop was
entertained while on a country tour by a squatter
whose potations were long and loud, and when the
holy man left his host handed him a liberal cheque
for the good of his flock. The amount was so
large that the pastor convulsively asked him to
come down to Brisbane and put up at the palace,
and then they parted with emotion. In the
course of the next two years the Equatter drank
and cursed his property away, and when he
turned up in Brisbane he was scattered about
very tight in the main thoroughfare and
propping himself up against a lady whose
morals were nob particularly correct. His hat
had a heavy rake forward, and in his utter in-
ability to find his mouth he was faintly striving to
insert his cigar in his ear, while he assured the
lady that she was a “ daishey, ’ and called her his
little “pauzhey blosshosshom ” —and just at this
crisis the Bishop bore heavily down upon him and
shook him cordially by both hands. He had left
his spectacles at home, and consequently he failed
to take in the leading features of his friend’s ap-
paarance, and thought he was
merely suffering from pious emo-
tion, and the lady’s red bonnet and
yellow shawl didn’t shock him so
much as they otherwise might have
done. With a vivid recollection of
the cheque, he urged his stone-
broke patron to dine with him, and
asked for an introduction to the
lady, and the pastoralist, with a
paralytic idea that the whole
world was slipping away beneath
his feeti, stated that she was his
younger sister, who died before he
could remember, and that she had
never known a mother’s care owing
to having been born when both her
parents were away from home and
brought up on the bottle, and that
she had been on the bottle ever
since, in consequence of which she
had been christened Ann Jane
Elizabeth. A little pleasant con-
versation followed, in the course of
which one member of the party held
himself up by a pillar-box, and then
the bishop gave the lady his aim and
led the way down the street. Most
of the men whom he met on the way
turned aside and choked, and the
ladies elevated their noses in the
air, bub he failed to observe these
t hings ; and even when the squatter
SISYPHUS AND THE ROCK,
An ancient myth with modern
variations.
SIR HENRY: “ALL RIGHT
EDDY, YOU BOOST IT UP
AND ILL SEE THAT IT
GETS DOWN AGAIN.”
made a break down a side street and disap-
peared the single-minded man accepted without
question the explanation that he was liable to thin gs
of that sort owmg to sunstroke. But when the lady
began to address him as “Gaiters” and “Old
Fakir ” an awful suspicion crept into his mind,
and later on she called him “Pussy,” and asked
him if he ever draDk. He froze up at this and
said he was sorry to part so soon, but he remem-
bered that he bad to go and have a cold bath, and
his companion shook him cordially by the hand
and said tbat she would wait about till he came
cut. But be didn’t come out at all, and it is
rumoured tbat he escaped through a back window
and reached home with his episcopal hair standing
up, and tcld the gilded menial at the gate tbat if
a lady esmi along and inquired for him by the
name of “ Gaiters” or “ Pussy” he was to drive
her out and scream for the police.
At Napier (N.Z.) the elite have deserted
the imk, and that institution is falling into disre-
pute. Its principal support for many months
was a lccal parson-an amazingly agile young
man wiih thin legs that flew about in a hundred
directions and long arms which sawed the air as
he fled across the slippery surface, and while he
was to the fore the kissable girls of the town
haunted tbe rink and fell about the place that
they might in joy the soft ecstacy of being picked
up by him and comforted in their grief. At
times like these the good man suspended his
fiendish activity, and stopped looking like a
deranged whirlwind of head and feet, and a
heavenly expression shone in his large grey eyes
but, alas ! these times will come back no more.
For the curate has fallen and the mighty
preacher has come down with a welt. It
was on a Btarry evening not long ago, and the
shepherd was joyously a-rinking with music in his
feet and rhythm standing up in his hair, when an
obese old lady, who never went to church, plodded
slowly in on skates, being incited by the devil to
tread for the first time in the slippery tracks of
pleasure when already verging on her second
childhood. She saw the parson and pounded
heavily towards him with an idea that it would be
advisable to have some one near whom she could
hold cn to in case of disaster, and recognising
the position he flew round her on one leg
and then revolved back again on the other,
and gyrated until she was conscious of nothing
save a black streak splitting through the atmo-
sphere in every direction all at once. He really
only meant to be on band in case she required to
be picked up, but she lost her senses and grew
dizzy and wild, and then she clutched at some-
thing which she was ready to take her Bible oath
was his coat-tail. Next thing they knew was a
shriek of horror as they crashed down together,
the lady on top, the parson underneath, in an in-
extricab’e confusion of back hair and things, and
as they rolled on the floor a Horrible shout of pro-
fane laughter and ungodly glee went up aloft,
mingling with the groans of the dead and the
cries of the dying and the shrieks of those about
to expire, till the wild hoot of carnal merriment
burst through the roof of the edifice like the roar
of a volcanic eruption from Tarawera’s blasted
battlements, and ascending to the zenith an-
nounced to the starry heavens and the Southern
Cross that a great man had fallen in Israel, and
great was the fall thereof. Half a ton of fainting
womanhood was presently dragged off the flattened
psalm-smiter, and they were removed gently to an
adjacent room, and there the lady presently
recovered and snortingly denounced the bounding
brother as an indescribable fool and a vindictive
idiot, and urged him to go home in a cart and get
himself put in a sling and go and preach to his
brethren at the lunatic asylum. Even the copious
resources of the English bnguage fail to paint her
flow of speech, and when at last the preacher
pulled himself together, and took his dislocated
and crippled way down the street, she followed him
and made remarks for three-qurrters of a mile.
He got away from her in the end ; however, and
doubled up with a groan beneath his own vine and
fig-tree to reflect on the horrors of bis position
Since then he has rinked no more, and the ladies
who once assembled to watch him skim over the
shining surface have fled from the glittering hall,
and the rink is only the shadow of the rink that it
used to be.
Dear Bulletin,— The people of N.S.W*
suffer from a mistaken idea that free speech is the
order of the day in this sunny land, and I want to
break up this delusion right cff. There isn’t any
free speech at all, or if there is it isn’t to be
found in the Press. I live in an ignorant little
town lyiDg in a south-westerly direction from
Fydney—a place that has slumbered into second
childhood and become stupid and moss-grown from
premature old age ; and in this town there is pub-
lished an ungainly newspaper with 27 subscribers,
generally known as the Western Owl. That
isn’t its name, but it is near enough. Last week
there was an unusual festivity in the hollow little
village—the bachelors gave a ball, and all the
ladies of the district, from Hangman's Creek on
one side right over to Barnabas Gully on the
other, rolled up. They wore clump soled boots,
and they giggled and breathed heavily, and they
got into an awful state of perspiration when they
danced, and the tallow from the candles dripped
down on their heads, and they wiped it off with
large red handkerchiefs, and generally, they had
such a time. I wrote a brief and truthful ac-
count of the proceedings for the Western Owl,
and in the course of my remarks I said tbat the
ladies were mostly attired in dish-cloths and
floor-rags and danced with their brothers’ shoes
on—language which was not at all severe, con-
sidering the circumstances of the case. But
the ungainly newspaper fowl sent back
my communication with a letter in which
it stated that my remarks were cf an
incendiary and debasing character, that they
were a libel upon each of its 27 subscribers, and
that they concealed under their flowing diction
language which was “disrespectable”to Lord Car-
iDgton and three judges of the Supreme Court;
that they hid under their depths the germs of a
bloody revolution, and amounted to an apology
for general and indiscriminate homicide, poly-
gamy, burglary, and civil war.” Therefore the
Owl rejected the manuscript and declined to re-
ceive any further communications from a journalist
who belched forth bad language directed at exist-
ing institutions, and who had no feelings of respect
towards the landmarks of the age. Then the
editor sat down and wrote two columns of burn-
ing drivel, in which the iron-shod daughters of
toil were described as a “ galaxy of beauty,” and
Ann Sarah Smith, the six-foot girl of Old ’Possum
Smith, a gigantic maiden in yellow evening cos-
tume, whose vast desert of red, unclothed back
obscured the mcon and stars, was alluded to as
the “ lovely and accomplished heiress of a popular
citizen.” Ann Sarah entered with her broad shoul-
ders wrapped in the largest dish cloth in the room,
and ’Possum Smith’s possessions, whichwilldeEcend
to her when the old man perishes, consist cf
one acre of stony paddock, a heifer, and the
most cantankerous bull in the empire. Another
heiress, the descendant of Briggs, deceased —
nobody knows this young lady’s Christian name
because she can t write and she never says any-
thing—was alluded to as “one more of the fair
daughters of Australia ; ” she didn’t speak once
all the evening, but she kept her mouth open
ready for eating, and she perspired more than any
person in the rcom. The candles were mentioned
as a “blaze of radiance,” and other things were
dealt with in proportion, excepting only me—l
was vaguely hinted at in an (ditorial note as a
“person with a deceased imagination who had
furnished a distorted account of this brilliant en-
tertainment.” After that is it worth while tote
a white voter any longer ? For my part I want to
become a Chinaman.—Yours, M‘C .
Missing Friends.
Any information respecting the following sent to
the Editor of The Bulletin will be forwarded to
the persons inquiring :
William Henry Ashford went from London to Aus-
tralia, 34 years ago, and is now sought by his son and
daughter.
William Gore, who war in Melbourne about 20 years
ago, is inquired for by his brother John, of Sitting bourne.
Arthur Haymes was last heard of at Bruns *ick, near
Melbourne, in 1886. His parents wish to hear from him.
Emanuel Hitt (Collard), a tailor, went to Sydney in
1883, ard was last heard of three years tince, trading be-
tween Melbourne and Litmoie. His aged mother withes
to kuow hii whereabouts.
John Henry Mitchell, who left Plyrrouth in the
Pericles, 1879, was last heard of at 438, George-street,
Sydney, in 1880. His mother would be glad of inforina
tion.
Lousia Parsons sailed in the Louisa, for Western Aus-
tra'ia, in 1876, and was last beaid of five years ago. Her
mother teeks tidings of her.
David Pritchard is inquired for by his sister, “Booties.”
lie sailed in the Golden City, from London, for Brisbane,
in 1862, and bas not been heard of since.
William Henry Richardson sailed from Gravesend in
R.M.S. Tongariro in 1888, and has not been heard of since
he wrote from Dover. His mother enquires.
A club named the “Savage” has been
lately started in Sydney. At their first meeting
the other day, the club made a very “knobby ’
start; though judging from the names supplied
by the daily press, the fathering was more a re-
union of the “Ten Tribes” than a promiscuous
collocation of “Barbarians.”
The new wing of the Sydney Public
Library i 3 approaching completion. The nucleus
of the present institution was the purchase by
Sir John Robertson when Colonial Secretary in
1870 of l(i,000 volumes from the Australian
Li brary and Literary Institution for the sum of
£l5OO. The latter Institution, which was estab-
lished as far back as 1826, was a joint-stock affair
to which admission was obtained by subscription.


Ladies’ wire dress-stands for draping dresses on
—you can ' them skirts only, plain, or with
extendir U figure, plain, or with extend-
ing skir tne Wire Works, Eastway’s,
411 Gee, bydney.
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Holler Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Fishing Tackle of every description for sea and
river fishing, Wholesale and Retail, Eastway’s,
411 George-streeb, Sydney.
Personal Items.
The Grand Old Man drinks tea three times
a day.
Who in the “champion” rlnkist !■ It must
be Sir Henry Parkes.
It is cabled that Admiral Short land, who
originally surveyed Port Phillip Bay, is dead.
The Queen of Sarvia will appear in person
in the court to answer her husband’s suit for
divorce.
The squatting estates of Mr. Welnholb, of
Queensland, are being floated in England for half
a million.
Lady Musgrave is a daughter of Cyrus
Field, the American scientist who laid the first
Atlantic cable.
Brigadier-General Cox, C. 8., who served
with distinction in the late Burmese war, i 3 a
native of Tasmania.
Judge Gillies, of N. Z. Supreme Court,
was not admitted to the practice of the law until
he was nearly 40 years of age.
The articles which have recently appeared
in the S.M Herald on the parched-up Western
country of N.S.W. were written by the Rev.
Horatio Gilbert Parker.
Mr. Henry Kirke White, whose name
figures amongst the new Js’.P., is a kinsman of
the poets. However, the new J.P. is not a poet.
He is a chemist at Rylstone.
The title of Sir Morell Mackenzie’s new
work is to be “ The Fatal Illness of Frederick the
Noble.” From this we infer that Frederick’s
little bill was promptly settled.
Bishop Perry and George Coppin should
come in for recognition in- this the Centennial
year. One imported an iron church and the other
an iron theatre in the good old days.
Lord Salisbury is descended from a water-
bailiff. The only son of this water-bailiff kept a
pub. Thus Potts Pointers are not the only nobles
who did not come over at the Conquest.
Our apocryphal Waterloo veterans fade
into insignificance when compared with a Corsican
ex-soldier who died last month. This relic was 40
years of age in 1815—at least, he said so.
Amongst the new N.S.W. magisterial
appointments is that of a gentleman who nightly
parades his town to the music of a tambourine
and saxehorn in the uniform of the Salvation
Army. Hallelujah !
The sister of a well-known Australian
judge died the other day in a Refuge for the
Destitute, at Auckland (N.Z,). She had been ad-
dicted to drink, and, deserted by her husband,
died friendless and alone.
Cardinal Moran, it Is stated, will, on his
return to Australia, take a libel-action against a
certain daily newspaper in respect to statements
made in a cablegram concerning himself which re-
cently appeared in its columns.
Harry Need, of Warrnambool (Vic.), the
labourer who came into such a big fortune the
other day, has determined to finish with his own
bands a fencing job before going home to the
ancestral halls and family bullion.
The now notorious Mrs. Mona Caird,
whose recent advocacy in the Westminster Re-
view of free love has caused so much discussion,
is not unknown as an authoress : she has published
two novels, “ Whom Nature Leadeth ” and “ One
that Wins.”
In resigning the command of the German
military staff Yon Moltke addressed that aggres-
sive young cub, Emperor William, as ‘'Most
Illustrious and Most Puissant Emperor-King,
Most Gracious Kaiser, King and Lord. ” And yet
it was Yon Moltke who made the clay image to
which he now bows down.
Before Frank Gardiner, the bushranger,
died in California the other day, he directed a
letter to a natural daughter who .was married and
living in Queensland The letter is said to have
contained particulars of the secret burial at
Enford Creek (N.S.W.) of 14,000 sovereigns. This
was the spoil which cost Ben Hall, Gilbert, and
Charters their lives.
In the World’s “ Pages In Waiting ”
Edmund Yates speaks highly of Rolf Boldre-
wood’s “Robbery Under Arms,” a lengthy bush-
ranging story which originally appeared in the
Sydney Mail and has lately been published in
three volumes. The yarn is actually contrasted
with R. L. Stevenson's “Black Arrow” to the
disadvantage of the latter.
Every lord doesn’t look like a lord. The
late Duke of Portland, in the old days of railway
travelling, once demanded a ticket to Portland,
and, on being asked for his name, said “ Port-
land.” The equivoque went on for some time till
the ticket-clerk lost his temper, and said : “You
d young fool, I don’t want to know where
you’re going, but what your infernal name is
Maxwell, the murderer of Preller, who
was arrested at Auckland (N.Z.) and taken back
to America to be tried, was in gaol three years
after his conviction. Even at the execution it
seemed fated that his agony should be prolonged,
as it took 17 minutes to hang him, besides nearly
cutting his throat with the rope. However, even
th ; s is better than the N.S. Wales fashion of
hanging a man and then taking three years to try
his case and establish his innocence.
Dear Bulletin, —London Star has re-
vived, and Mr. Lithgow Farrell has copied,
an old story about Sir .John Millais working
on the Bendigo gold-field, suggesting that
the painter should publish his romantic ex-
periences. Nobody, however, appears to re-
member Millais at the diggings, and he has
denied that he was ever in Australia at all.
Furthermore, the first old liar who comes along
can furnish us with enough romantic experiences
of Bendigo to turn our brain.—Yours, J.
The poor old septuagenarian Marquis of
Normanby, after enjoying the honor and emolu-
ments appertaining to the office of Comptroller
and Treasurer of H.M. household, and no end of
Governorships, including New Zealand and
Queensland, at £5OOO per annum each, and Vic-
toria at £lO,OOO is, it is said, to have the “cold
shoulder” of Western Australia given him at
£2500 per annum. Governorships are at a dis-
count. N.S. Wales gives her new Railway Com-
missioner £3OOO a year—but then he has brains.
“ Timothy Fogarty ” —a signature which
has often met the readers of the Sydney Press
this last 25 years—is unmasked at last. His true
name is William Ellard. He has revealed himself
to “ dish ” one Robert Jacob, who declined to be
taught by a person with such a patronymic as
“Fogarty.” Henceforth Mr. Ellard and Mr.
Jacob will tourney in the Press over their real
names. And no insignificant persons are they.
William says that on his father’s side he is a
Huguenot, and on his mother’s a Quaker, while
Mr. Jacob declares himself to be a descendant of
the Sir John .Jacob who crossed the Boyne at the
back of William, “and lent the king £200,000 —
which is still owiDg ! ”
Says the Hawk (London) : —Next year
will probably see the return of Lord Carington
from Australia. “Charlie” and his charm-
ing wife have made themselves very popular
in N.S.W. but nobody here could understand why
they went, or still less why they remained.
Australia may be a very fine sporting country,
and the colonists are rapidly acquiring some
degree of polish, but to a man like Lord Carington,
a typical man about town and a courtier, N.S.W.
must have been little short of banishment. Sir
•John Gorst, the Under Secretary for India, has
been mentioned as his successor, but this is un-
likely. Racing men will be curious to know if
the Hon. Rupert Carington returns with his
brother, and whether his experiences of colonial
racing have been more fortunate than his home
speculations. At one time the Hon. Rupert was
looked upon as a likely candidate for the position
now so ably filled by Mr. Harry Milner.” Which
latter is no doubt a little joke.
Melbourne Argus of Saturday week con-
tained 224 columns of advts., and less than 48
columns of reading matter.
An obituary notice in S,M. Herald says
“ God calls His own.” Which, being interpreted,
means that the devil owns the remainder.
On the bjards at Christ Church police
station (Sydney) may be observed seven notices
signed “ Henry Parkes ” offering rewards for the
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENG. CO., 8 URIODE-ST. SYDNEY.
MR, PERCIVAL BALL,
SCULPTOR. (See page 6.)
apprehension of various persons charged with
capital crimes. Five are for infanticide, one for
murder, and one for rape.
A Mr. Doolan, in the bush the other day,
came across some bones which he inadvertently
took to be the remains of the ill-fated explorers
Burke and Wills. The Singleton Argus has since
heard from a farmer who resides near the spot
that the remains are those of a cow of his which
died there some 16 months ago.
An Officer of Sydney Corporation was the
other day summoned by four different cabmen for
the non-payment of cab-hire incurred on different
dates. Defendant failed to appear and was
ordered to pay the amounts and all costs. One of
the cabmen stated in his evidence that on one
occasion thirteen cabmen were waiting for the
defendant at the Town Hall.
Yet another young man of Sydney has
been charged with masquerading in women’s
clothes. He was a youth who from his appear-
ance and manner might have been mistaken for a
young and decidedly gcod-looking woman ; he
had a soft effeminate voice and was made up to
perfection. It is ju3t about time that the police
commenced to steadily dog the footsteps of a
rather large class of Sydney young men, who
powder their faces and rouge their lips, and
blacken their eyebrows, even when they are not
arrayed in women’s clothes.
Dear Bulletin, —The present N.S.W. In-
solvency Act is not by any means a complete cure
for all abuses, the methods of “ getting through ”
being extremely easy. A short time since a maD,
holding a fair position, was whitewashed for four
figures. This individual, at his marriage, settled
on his wife property which brings in £350 or so a
year, yet in the schedule are to be found butchers,
bakers, drapers, tailors, personal friends —in fact
every tradesman but the undertaker. Men and
women of this stamp enjoy immunity under the Act
and laugh at their dupes,—J, F.
POLITICAL
Sir ILnry Parkes boasted that he has in
his time inflicted on N.S.W. no less than 2000
honorary J.sP.
Bellicose Tommy Bent has been darkly
hinting his desire to knock out the Attorney-
General of Victoria in one round.
The Hamilton (Vic.) Spectator says that
Judge Quinlan in recommending flogging for rob-
bery is “ progressing backwards.”
The English wheat market is the smallest
of the present century, and the Bitter Cry of Out-
cast London will be more than usually loud this
coming winter.
Mr. Dibbs remarks that Howe is not the
first Protectionist returned for Redfern. Suther-
land and Schey are Protectionists but are too
cowardly to avow it.
Since the liberal N.S.W patent-law came
into force 14 months ago over 1000 applications for
letters patent, &c., have been made. The office is
actually now a source of revenue.
Both Disraeli and Gladstone have declared
Imperial Federation to be impossible. H. Mor-
timer Franklyn writes that it is not only possible,
but will be realised in a few years.
“ Sir Henry Parkes aays that the North
Shore bridge must be built at an early date.”
Otherwise, the North Shore electors will kick
Parkes out of his present constituency.
Daring this year and the next no less than
seven Colonial Governorships will be vacant—N.S.
Wales, South Australia, Queensland, New Zea-
land, Jamaica, Ceylon, and Cape Colony.
“ Sir Henry Parkes,” says the O'Sullivan,
“holds the reins of power with a dead man’s
hand. His Government resembles the staghorn,
which absorbs the air as it clings to a post.”
The S.M. Herald says : “ State nurseries
are being established in Queensland.” And now
we are wondering whether Sir Tam. M‘llwraith
is going in for begonia culture or baby- farming.
It is reported that Mr. Henry Cecil Raikes
is to be appointed to the vacant Governorship of
Queensland. The British Government have long
been making Australian Governors of its played-
out rakes.
Frank Hugh O’Donnell is bringing an ac*
tion against Parnell for words used by the latter
in reference to the late libel action of O’Donnell v.
the Times. O Donnell's place in politics is a hard
thing to define.
The Argus is adopting The Bulletin’s
assertion that Australians take no interest in
public affairs or in any business which they do not
personally transact. They don’t even take much
interest in the Argus.
The Argus occasionally alludes to mem-
bers of the Victorian Assembly as “Yahoos.”
Some years ago the Argus was imprisoned in the
Parliamentary Coal-hole for calling the late
William Frazer, M.P., a “privileged ruffian.”
Pasteur seems to have successfully Btifled
the anthrax epidemic, but Ringnose Wise intends
to put in circulation 200,000 copies of his speech
to the South Sydney Freetrade Association.
There is always something to make the people sad.
A lot of Bathurst people say they will
elect William Beecham at next election in prefer-
ence to Dr. Cortis, their present Foreign-trade
member. Parties at a distance are informed that
Mr. Beecham is a civilised Chinese storekeeper in
the City of the Plains.
Rumour avers that a Lieutenant in the
N.S.W. “Volunteer Submarine Miners 1 ' has
been (to put it gently) relieved from duty. If
giving evidence to a Royal Commission constitutes
a military crime, how about the penalties for con-
tempt in case of refusal ?
The fact that the reporters of the S.M.
Herald and Sydney D T. were called upon to
give evidence for the prosecution in the trumpery
Newcastle “riot” case is a good deal for those
papers from a radical point of view. It is calcu-
lated to for ever establish them in the favour of
the miners of Northumberland.
An English medical journal tells a tale of
a farmer who was insane for 15 years, but re-
covered his intelligence through being kicked on
the head by a horse. This incident suggests that
something might be done for the rank-and-file of
the present N.S.W. Ministry if their heads cotdd
be stamped on by an elephant, always provided
the Treasury couid mest the bill for wear and tear
of the animal.
Eive hundred emigrants left England on
Monday week for Queensland. Five hundred more
idle hands to find work for, and 500 more empty
stomachs to fill. Why not tell these whose
robbery made them so, to remedy the results of
their own iniquitous greed? The day that sees
English emigration checkmated all over the earth
sees England, nolens volens, facing the social pro-
blem and compelled to settle it.
The smallness of the number who vote in
proportion to the number on the Electoral Roll is
a subject of frequent comment. It is commonly
said that the great body of voters want to be edu-
cated up to a sense of the value of the franchise.
But the convocation of Sydney University con-
sists of 400 names, and at the last couple of
meetings less than 40 registered their votes on the
questions submitted. How does education affect
the exercise of the franchise there ?
A correspondent writing to one of the
Sydney daily papers anent the mutiny of the
Bounty, considers that amongst the very rare
records of rebellion or of mutiny in the British
service “it is something more than a coincidence
that two of them should have been directed
against the self-same man.” In other words, it is
insinuated that as Louis Napoleon reaped at
Sedan what he sowed in Paris, so Bligh reaped in
Sydney what he sowed on the ocean.
The second anniversary dinner of the
Sydney Lithographic Society, held in the local
Masonic Hall, was a very successful affair. One
speaker, in referring to trades unionism, eulogised
Punch's motto : “ Strike, but don’t quarrel with
your bread and butter.” This is good advice so
far as it gees, but suppose that butter is out of the
question, your earnings only running to bread, and
that it is also seriously proposed to curtail your
already scanty allowance of bread, what then ?
What strikers quarrel with is not so much their
bread and butter, as its scarcity.
We read that at a late meeting of the Sydney
Shamrock Club, Mr. J.G. O’Connor, “on behalf of
Mr. O’Hare, of Bateman’s Bay, presented to the
club an interesting relic of ’5)B, viz , an Irish pike.
In making the presentation he mentioned that the
pike had been in the possession of the O’Hare
family since ’94, and on Vinegar Hill it had given
a good account of itself. It had followed the re-
nowned Michael O’Dwyer in his vicissitudes and
was brought out to this country in 1850. The
pike will take a prominent position in the next St.
Patrick’s Day parade ” We counsel the St.
1 a trick s Day parade committee to let .ox Bring
of the sort happen. If they value the pike let them
deposit it at the pawnshop as security for a loan
wherewith to purchase some raleowld Oirish whisky
and drink confusion to the Sassenach. The un-
necessary flaunting of this rusty weapon will only
serve as a pretext for the raising of a first-class
sectarian row. Or, let them keep it for the ban-
quet in the evening and hsnd it round as a tooth-
pick.
The feelings of D. Gillies, Esq., Premier,
were severely wounded by certain Age articles
dealing with the expensive and erratic laying
down of two railway lines in Victoria. Conse-
quently Duncan came down to the House, wearing -J
the white flower of a blameless life in the button-
hole of his breast-plate of righteousness and satis-
factorily explained that he was a political arch-
angel, while “persons who sat down to asperse
the character of their fellow men were detrimental
to the purity of public life and extremely disad-
vantageous to the welfare of public institutions.”
All of this was rapturously received by everybody
present, especially the Opposition party, after
which a cool breeze swept through the Assembly
caused by all the members winking at one time.
Bah ! The Victorian Government sells a tract of
country. Opposition syndicates buy it. Then
the Government discovers that the public welfare
requires a railway through that country, and it
has to be purchased at what Commissioner Speight
calls “ a phenomenal increase in the price of land.”
There was a beautiful “scene” in the
Victorian Assembly last week between two braw
Scots and the inevitable Chair. It occurred in
this way. The irrepressible MTntyre observed
that Duncan Gillies had made a damning state-
ment, upon which the fiery M‘Lellan interposed
to the effect that MMntyre had himself been
damning something, thereby inciting M‘lntyre to
remark that the presence of an Asylum in the
midst of M‘Lellan’s constituency had evidently
affected the sitting member, thus inciting M'Lellan
to express a hope that MMntyre's electors would
shortly return a sane man who didn't drivel.
After this Speaker Davies requested M'Lellan to
withdraw his imputation on MMntyre’s brains,
and M'Lellan said he insinuated nothing and the
Speaker had made a mistake. The Speaker sub-
sided into his robes and Parliament then went on
as usual. It is painfully evident that the Chair,
as a grand old institution, is rapidly bursting up.
We date its decline from the time when I >r.
Kenealy (the Claimant’s champion) was nrst
“named” by the Speaker of the House of Com-
mons. Kenealy survived that solemn episode and
a very ancient tradition exploded on the spot.
Previous to that the Speaker’s “naming” of a
member was the subject of mysterious conjecture.
There is an old story about a Parliamentary
novice who wanted to know what happened to a
member when he was fractious. “The Speaker
calls him to order,” explained a majestic fossil.
“ And if he won’t be quiet?” suggested the novice.
“Then the Speaker names him,” said the fossil.
“And what is the result?” asked the novice.
“The Lord only knows,” replied that flabber-
gasted relic.


THE PRIDE OF THE MENAGERIE.
The Froetrade Tumbo buys imported eggs at one end and crushes the eggs of Native Industry at the other. Under Protection we hatch our own Industries.


THE NEW ERA OF PROSPERITY.
AUCTIONEER PARKES: “ONCE! TWICE! ARE YOU ALL DONE?”
MR.SHINDYKIT (Who is punctually on hand solus, having eaten up all competitors): "YAH! I AM ALL DONE!"
AUCTIONEER: "THEN SOLD! NOW, THE NEXT LOT IS SOME FINE GOVERNMENT LAND LATELY MADE VALUAABLE BY CHEAP LABOUR AT FOUR BOB A DAY. WE ARE ABOUT TO ENTER UPON ANOTHER GRAND ERA OF PROSPERITY AND MUST SEND
HOW MUCH, GENTLEMEN?”


llorsford’s Acid Phosphate
FOR IMPAIRED VITALITY
ud weakened energy is wonderfully successful.
PERFECT HEALTH !
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hookings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilc-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
,N .B.~Only two ( from Melbourne.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the followin ,
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever
factored
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The,Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered,, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
V. H. PALING ft GO-, W,
gpp STREpST. iwo doors Jrona P.Oi
Society
Years ago, in the days of old long since, a
wandering opera company struck the Australian
shore, and held out for a brief space in various cities.
Then the grass withered and the flower dried up ;
Fate heaved the decayed vegetable of misfortune
at the head of the aggregation, and its sun de-
scended into the ocean
wave. The large, fierce
bass ceased to make the
welkin ring; the long and
pensive tenor closed his
countenance and never
smiled again; the soprano
took to book-canvass-
ing ; another lady, who
had earned a precarious
living by being a thing
of air in the chorus, ac-
cepted a billet where she
agitated the beer-engine
till far into the night;
and a stately creature
with flying hair, who took
vengeful oaths in caves
when there happened to
be a piece on wibh a cave
in ib, joined her in the
same pursuit. For two
years they followed this
humble calling, and then
these two dreams of love-
liness disappeared, and
left many a dude lament
ing their loss. But the
man who lamented loud-
est was a shock-headed
aboriginal known as Bill,
who worshipped the dust
on which the two girls
trod, and who had drank
many free rums at their
shrine, and often ex-
plained in shattered
English his desire to bear
them away to his forest
home where the ’possum
1: - ’ among the foliage
and the emu and the kan-
garoo trod the sylvan
glades, that they might
be his two gins, according
to the gospel preached
by Mrs. Mona Caird,
and lead a wild, unfet-
tered existence far from
the enervating influence
of clothes. The sorrow of
Bill was deep and loud,
bub the months rolled on
and his idols were still
absent, and at last even
their memory was for-
gotten and obliterated.
But at last the j. girls
returned. Whether they
bad cleaned out a bank
or their uncle had died
and left them the money
will never he known, but
they were attired in
shining clothes and were
understood to be travel-
ling utterly regardless of
expense, and when they
wandered about in the
evening, “ach attended by
a costly dude", they drop-
ped vague hints concern-
ing their property far
away, and hinted that
they wished to conceal their real rank as they were
at present going round in clogs. Probably they
meant to say that they were incog, but that is a
mere detail. Eor a time all went pleasantly, and
then the cussedness of fate was let loose and the
awfulness of things in general was upheaved.
There was a picnic one day in a flowery dell,
where gilded girls in nice frocks were gathered
together and youths in high starched collars
rushed around with the victuals, and the gayest
of the crowd were the two ladies of the ruined
opera company. But suddenly in the midst of
their laughter the shadow of a shock-headed
aboriginal fell across the tart and the blanc-
mange, and they looked up with a start. It
was Bill, and he was making signs of affec-
tion which made him appear as if he was
about to have a fit. A cold chill fell upon the
party and the dudes threw stones at him but
failed to hit him, and one of them burst his braces
in his efforts and had to hold up his pants by the
pockets for the rest of the day. The aboriginal
only moved a little further away and executed a
dance accompanied by a series of shorb barks
which filled the company with alarm. They con-
cluded at last that he was suffering from hydro-
phobia, and a flank movement commenced towards
the steamer. Bill followed, and at the jetty he bore
down on the crowd and said plaintively : “Gib ib
chickpence.” Nobody responded. There was an
odour of mild decay attached to the savage which
made the ladies reticent about associating with
him, and the temporary accommodation he asked
for was not tendered. Then he singled out the
two ladies of his adoration and said again in
accents sad and wild : “ Gib it chickpence.” They
tr-ed to if they had never seen him before,
but he bowed elaborately before them and called
up memories of the past. “Misse Polly, Misse
Dora,” he said pensively ; “me plenty glad,
plenty time me tinkem of you when you been
longem old Brown bublic-house, you gib it plenty
rum den, gib it chickpence .” Then a scream
arose from the whole picnic, and two girls fainted
in a dishevelled heap on the ground. The pair of
mabhers who were responsible for their presence
there glared blankly at each other. “ Cholly,” said
the on*- who first recovered his powers of speech ;
“they’re two beastly barmaids.” “Bai Jove!”
said the other vaguely, and as he said it he clawed
at the vacant air, and then he looked round at his
sisters and his aunts who were clutching their
umbrellas and going into convulsions. He held
up one of them and Cholly supported another,
but the other 18 went off in a series of shrill
screams and drummed with their feet on the
ground, and the picnic dissolved into a large
quantity of females in hysterics on the wharf.
And amid all the unearthly racket the voice of
aboriginal Bill still rose upon the listening air, and
the words he uttered were : “Gib it chickpence.”
He was the only unmoved individual in all that
scene of wreck, and while the whole fabric of
society was dissolving around him, and chaos had
come again on earth, and the two girls of his
affections lay insensible with their best bonnets on
in the dust, he sat down in his burst pants upon
the middle of the road and looked round with an
empty smile upon the ruin which he had brought
about.
* m •
There was a little personal trouble one day
last week at Newcastle (N. S.W.) Thomas Barti-
well having differed with Sarah Burns, which led
to trouble and aggravation on the part of Sarah,
and these emotions afterwards rebounded against
Thomas to his serious discomfiture and vexation.
According to Thomas’s version Sarah charged at
him armed with a pair of tongs, a brick, a broom,
CHAIRMAN: “WELL, SORR, YOU’RE A DOCTHOR, YE SAY, D’YER KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT SHMALL-POX?"
DR. O'HOOLIGAN: “OI DO—THAT SAME!”
CHAIRMAN: “AND WHAT D’YER KNOW ABOUT IT?”
DR. O’H.: “IT’S A DISASE BROUGHT TO OULD OIRELAND BY THE BASE, BRUTAL AND BLOODY SAXON.” (Great
Applause).
CHAIRMAN: “AND HOW WOULD YEZ TRATE THE SHMALL-POX?"
DR- O'H.: “TRATE IT! WHY, I’D TRATE IT WID CONTEMPT.” (Dr. O' Hooligan was unanimously elected).
a dog, a bucket of dirty water, strong language,
and a pie-disb, while Sarah asserted that Thomas
used expressions which were perfectly “ offal,”
and pounded her with a brush while she, for her
own part, hadn't any dog and missed fire with the
tongs. Sarah was of opinion that Thomas was a
low character, and Thomas regarded Sarah as dirt.
The court then viewed the wreck and mutilation
done to each of the two litigants, and as Thomas
seemed to be the more bashed-about of the pair
the other side, as represented by Sarah, was fined,
and that lady departed, damaged in person and
injured in her goods and chattels as well as badly
mangled in the feelings of her soul. Still, things
might have been worse. Eighty years ago the
N.S.W. courts would probably have flogged both
parbies and confiscated the dog and fined every-
body within 10 miles of the scene of action, which
would have been eminently depressing to the spirits
of all concerned, so that Sarah, even in the midst
of her woe, has cause to rejoice wibh an exceeding
great joy while putting vinegar and brown paper
on her bruises, and wailing in the seclusion of her
dismantled home.
* * •
It is alleged that Dr. Drummond, who is
said by the newspapers to have run away from a
Sydney suburb with several thousand pounds be-
longing to the young wife lie so recently married,
and with the other thousands of his own, all in
gold, has been practising on another man’s diploma
—on a diploma which, in point of fact, had been
stolen by someone from a celebrated English Dr.
Drummond, now in Rome. The question, there-
fore, arises—was the “Doctor” Drummond who
has so suddenly disappeared a doctor at all ? If
he wasn’t, what a revelation it must be for the
hundreds of patients he attended in the course of
his extensive practice to know that they had
been cured just as well by a man who didn’t know
anything of medicine as by a practitioner with
half the alphabet trailing in legitimate captivity
behind his honoured name.
• • •
Lady Musgrave, widow of the recently-
deceased Governor of Queensland, has had an
interview with Premier M‘llwraith and has in-
formed him that though at first she held a contrary
opinion and believed that the Queensland Min istry
forced a quarrel on her late husband for ulterior
motives, she now accepts Sir Anthony’s view that
both the opposing sides were actuated by equally
honorable motives. Her ladyship expressed her-
self strongly in regard to tho«e who charged the
late Governor and herself with parsimony ; she
produced her expense-book, which disclosed a
deficib of £3OOO between the official salary and
household expenses, and said that had she nob
been in possession of a large private income settled
upon her by her father they would not have been
able to maintain even a moderate style. Lady
Musgrave declares that in view of the treatment
extended to her she has no affection for Queens-
land, but she made her adieu to Sir Thomas
MTlwraith in a most friendly way.
#
111 N.S.W. watchhouses female prisoners
are searched by policemen; in Victoria the
female-searchers arc females.
* *
Mr. Christopher Sykes, whose financial
bust-up was noticed in last week’s Bulletin, is
believed to have ruined himself through con-
stantlv entertaining the Prince of Wales. When-
ever Tummy went North he was the guesb of his
faithful toady, Christopher Sykes. During Don-
caster race-week, his Royal Highness billeted him-
self on dear Christopher, and invariably increased
that misguided man’s expenses by giving him
shocking bad “ tips.” Christopher’s large fortune
lasted for so many yeai’3 that Tummy had begun
to regard his familiar host as a fixed item in the
British Constitution.
• i *
Kalakaua, King of the Cannibal Islands, is
still coming to Australia, though he hasn’t yet
fully arrived. When he does come he will be
only the second King who has visited Australia
since the white man struck this Continent. The
other was Jorgen JorgenseD, a retired gentleman
who once ran a precarious throne in Iceland, and
he didn’t count for much, anyway, for he came
out to mend roads under close Government super-
vision in Tasmania, and he hadn’t any suite
barring the usual warder with the cat-o’-nine-tails.
A king doesn’t amount to anything in particular
under such depressing circumstances as these.
* # *
To paint a certain spot on the Queensland
Coast, which he wildly describes as a “ cruel,
weird-looking scene, fantastic, unreal and bizarre,”
the materials required by that “ Mysterious Han-
som Cabman,” Fergus Hume, are both various and
multifarious. Here are some of them, taken from
the first 50 lines of “Madame Midas
“ Bleak-lookiDg coast,” “Huge water-worn promon-
tories, “ Tempestuous fury of the waves,” “ Sheets of
seething foam,’” “ Iron rocks,” “ Bagged, eruel-looking
rocks,” “ HeaviDg waste of waters,” “ Sudden line of
white fcam,” “Dark-green waves,” “Yellow sandy beach,”
“ Wet sands,” “ Many-ooloured wreaths of sea-weed,”
“ Delicate shells,” “ Cliffs in a kind of semi-circle, black
and preoipitous,” “ Flocks of white sea-gulls,” “ Inhos-
pitable-looking cliff*,” “ A line of pale-green betraying
the presence of vegetation,” “ Vast-rolling pastures,”
“ Giant mountains with snow-covered ranges,” “ Savage,
arid coast,” “A glaring red sky.” “ Delicate evanescent
pink of an ordinary sunset,” “ Fierce angry crimson,”
“ Colour of blood,” “ A molten ball of fire,” “ Snow-
clad peaks,” “ Lines of gloomy clouds,” “ The sinking
orb,” “ A huge black cloud,” “ Lurid eea of blood,” “ Red
waters,” “ A black speck,” “ Restless waves,” “ Gloomy
cliffs,” “ Sandy beach, “ Crimson waters,” “ Inhospitable-
looking coast.”
Wliew ! And now we’ve got that off, can any-
body solve the “ Mystery of the Queensland
Coast ” by tellmg us where the spot described by
the “ Cabman ” is to be found ?
• • •
They are saying in Sydney that if you are
a festive young man addicted to heavy mashing
and heavy betting it is an excellent thing to have
a rich and liberal mother. They are also saying
in various places in Australia that if you are “a
dashing woman ” and meet with what under ordi-
nary circumstances would be a terrible domestic
affliction it is extremely good form to hop and
skip about at public celebrations just as though
something had happened at which you were highly
delighted.
• • *
George Syme has been sentenced to death
at Melbourne for shooting his mother-in-law dead
at Lilydale. He said the pistol went off acci-
dentally while he was struggling with her. The
jury, who took three hours to arrive at a decision,
recommended the prisoner to mercy ‘ f on account
of the religious views of two of their number
against capital punishment.” Is marriage a
failure ?
* * *
There is bat an infinitesimal step be-
tween “ Blime Cholly ! Wat are you a-givin’ us ?”
and, “Ah-ha! Demme! Bai.Tove! Where you
going to, old chappie ? ”
A snobbish shoe-
seller in the London Hay-
market advertises :
“ Best boots and shoes
at ready - money prices
made on the selected
lasts of the following
noblemen, perfect feet
only having been chosen
as stock models.” Here
follow the names of the
D uke of Roxburghe,
Marquis of Hamilton,
Bari of Cadogan, Prince
Dolgorouki, &c. This
snob understands the
British cad ; every Con-
servative, every “loyal
subject” who can spare
the money will rush
round to thrust his hoof
into a boot of which the
alleged counterpart
adorns the extremities
of a prince, a duke, or
an earl, caring little how
it fits; too large or too
small it matters not to
him. He will bore all his
friends with it, and feel
himself ennobled from
the toe-nails upwards.
Oh. snobbery, thy name
is Englishman !
* * •
The moustache is
on the wane. The Pic-
cadilly “ Jonnies ” shave
their upper lips, and all
the other Jonnies in this
wide, wide world are
bound to follow suit.
* * •
Away in the West
lives a now highly re-
spected lady who was
purchased many years
ago on the Tuena gold-
field by her present hus-
band for a bottle of
whisky.
• • •
Amongst the newly-
appointed N S.W. magis-
trates is the head of a
family, the members of
which in all branches
are constantly at the
police-courts. When not
quarrelling among s t
themselves they are with
their neighbours. Now
that the old man is a Jay
Pay ( tbey may have their
squabbles settled before
him and save the public
officials much time and
trouble*
Of the house of Isaac Nichols, in Lower
George-street, Sydney, now being pulled down,
Wentworth in his history (1824) says : “ it would
not disgrace this metropolis ” (London). He, how
ever, avoids any mention of the one adjoining,
equally good and built by Mrs. Reibey.


Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patbntbd Arti
hoal Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing cures have been effected. Send for 132
paged illustrated book containing "Essay on Deafness,’
illustrations of the Drums, oopies of patent papers, letters
from Dootors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
oared by these Drums, and who recommend them.—Dr.
NICHOLSON, 65 William Strrbt, Melbourne.
SWEET BOItOMA, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price 3s. 6d.,
ss. and 10s. Post Free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANOIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-street East,
MELBOMtITE-
Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
given for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
Press Suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell-street, MELBOURNE.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Erankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
[?]
840 Maoquarie-street North, Sydney, Oot. 24, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
In bis speech at the Cowan Welcome Banquet, held in
Sydney Town Hall on the 13th inst., the hero of the hour
is reported to have said : —“ My experience of Australia is
oonflned almoet to Melbourne and the Exhibition ; but
this I will say, that what I have seen and wbat I have
heard—l am afraid it does not imply any great compli-
ment-still I will say I have been exceedingly and won-
derfully surprised.” How exceedingly and wonderfully
ambiguous he was, wasn't he? Didn’t even diagnose the
sort of surprise he got, but left it all to the judgment of
his hearers 1 They, of oourse, oried “ hear, hear,” which
showed the high opinion they formed of things in
general in the land of the Golden Fleece. Near
the “finish cf the feed,” Kowalski gave an impromptu
fantasia on Cowan’s exquisitely tender melody. “It was a
Bream ’’ —no, that is wbat Fred. Leslie called it, but the
real title is so similar that alteration is needless —when (I
quote from the Sydney M. H.) “The lateness of the hour
perhaps militated against the paying of that close atten-
tion by the audience which the merits cf the performance
deserved." Well, if that is so, please remember—
If you should at a banquet be, and think your bosom
friends is twins,
And that one dead marine is three, and stutter, “ Noweh
the funsh begins,”
And hurl plates at the window-panes and break of glass
a perfect shower,
Oh, do not think you are to blame, 'tis but the lateness of
the hour.
It is on dit that Sir William Robinson, Governor of
Trinidad, will succeed the late Sir Anthony Musgrave.
He is about the sixteenth man whom the cable has ap-
pointed to the billet.
All those ministering angels who go in extensively for
ambulance work and Florence Nightingaleism in the
kawlinies are requested to sit up and listen to this: —■
“ Lady Samuel has intimated that there are openings for
trained nurses in N.S.W. Numerous applications have
been received from trained nurses offering to go out to
Sydney if their passages are paid.” There ! And the
next thing will be a ship-load of sisters Dora (l wonder,
by-the-by, if they will be another of the blessiDgs of Free-
trade ?) anchcring at the Quay, and then where, ob, where
will our Sunbeam-itspired angels of mercy be ? At pre-
sent, however, tfcey are mostly at the Women’s Exhibi-
tion listening in a half-hearted way to ambulance lectures,
and making hazy notes of things they don’t understand
and otherwise qualifying to be the death of the first patient
who falls into their fair bands.
Lady Carington’s promised prizes to the Norfolk island
infants for the best-written letter, addressed to her at
Government House, were distributed at Norfolk Island on
the 4th inst. The winners turned up in three girls and
two boys, and the proceedings concluded, of course, with
three cheers from the whole five of them, being equal to
three-fifths of a cheer apiece.
Petersham “Owls” hold another hoot at the local
Town Hall on the 31st inst.
On the 18th inst. the Baron (accompanied, of course,
by the useful “E.W.”) journeyed to Yass to make believe
lay the foundation stone of the new hospital about to
be erected in the City of the Plains. His Excellency’s
cup of sorrow on this official occasion comprised “four
handsome grey horses”—an address presented by a young
lady—a hare hunt—a luncheon—several J’s.P. and a ball,
coupled with guards of honor as far as the eye could
reach, and a brass band. There may have been a dog-
fight, but history is silent on this point. Lord Caring-
ton returned to the Beautiful Harbour on the 19th inst.
S.M. Herald advt. :
MATRIMONIAL— Business MaD, with an income
over £5OO a year, wishes to correspond with a
lady about 30 with means.
Replies are to be sent to the stricken one's office in town.
-For allowing his fancy to “lightly turn to thoughts of
love” the business man leaves the sentimental youth on
the outside track this spring—though the astute way in
whioh he blends ’“means” and “ matrimony ’’ shows
that the season has not seriously effected him yet. How-
ever, I don’t suppose his carefully-worded advt. will
fetch many applicants. There are preoious few single
women who will own up to 30—even though matrimony
were the sure reward of their heroism. No ! they’d
rather cling to 20 and die unclaimed.
I went to see George Leitch in “ Sithors to Grind at
the Criterion the other night, and found it to be a
pathetic drama pervaded by a dear old tinker in patches,
and Myra Kemble, in two miraculously-fitting gowns,
one black, one grey. There was abeolutely no dressing
in the house, and one tasteless female waved a bright
blue fan with a purple velvet dress. She was evidently
“English, you know.”
In her lecture on “ Food, and its relation to life and in-
telligence,” at the W.E. the other afternoon, Miss Man-
ning uttered a great moral truth when she said “ There
was no more fruitful cause of family disunion than cook-
ing.” This is sadly so, isn’t it ? And it is my firm opinion
that cold mutton is at the bottom of every case of “ woife
desartion, ’ and that hash is responsible for the abundance
of rules nasty. Then the lecturess went on to cunningly
assure those who wanted to extract a favour
from the weary male motive of the establishment:
“ If they prepared a nice dinner and waited until he left
the table in such a state of serene oontent that a mouse
might play with him, it was a foregone conclusion that
their case was won.” Now, it’s this sort of talk that
makes yours truly tired. Don’t wives—those
worth the name, I mean—want to give Duckey a
good dinner just beoauee he’ll appreciate it, and not with
any lurking sinister design on his purse or obeque-book ?
Or do all women Berve up nioe dinners from purely mer-
cenary motives'.' If so, I should like to warn poor, for-
lorn man in a short verse :
When you come home to dine, and your wife says, “ My
dear,
Here is turkey, just done to a dot,
With gravy just made as you like it—so clear—
And everything all piping hot,”
Be warned I O ! be warned ! Shun the glittering show.
And with a cold gaze far from sweet,
Say, “ Popsie, I’m up to jour oaperß, you know,
It’s a dead-bird—trot out the cold meat 1 ”
Spring is here. So is the dust—the searching red dust
that cuts one’s ej es out and ruins one’s prettiest frock at
the same time, and makes those ugly dust-cloaks indis-
pensible when you take your walks abroad. Under these
wretched circumstances it is consoling to hear that “ Dust
clcaks are now quite a showy and dressy part of the
toilette.” They are of all oolours and shapes and delight-
fully trimmed with plenty of ribbon—for ribbon is to be
greatly worn this season. One dust cloak of to-day re-
sembles a garb of eilver, made of alternate stripes of light
and dark grey and having down the front large bows of
grey ribbon. A beauty is of myrtle-green turned baok
with shrimp. “Alpaca is the favourite material for these
cloaks, but Liberty silk is also much affected.” To whioh
I piously add, "Thank Heaven,” for if dust-cloaks
are going to be becoming and wearable “Oh dust! where
is thy victory ? or southerly buster where is thy sting?”
Mrs. Reeve’s readable disquisition on “ Dress and
Economy” in an English Magazine, is interesting reading—
especially for any young man who wants to be married.
Says she : “ Men as they grow older spend less on dress,
but this does not seem to apply to women.” A limit is
also soon reached by men, but women can go to almost
any length of expenditure in personal decoration. Their
scope is practically unlimited. No hope anywhere for
SIGNOR ZELMAN.
man, as usual! Even when his Pansy Blossom’s head
resolves itself into a skating rink for flies, and the den-
tist is responsible for his teeth, still mile-long
milliner’s bills will fall due with astonishing regu-
larity, and Popsie will worry him for a Spring
bonnet to the last gasp. “Bachelors,” Mrs. Reeve
goes on to say, “ spend more on their dress than married
men.” And the reason is cruelly obvious, don’t you
think? Poor married man has to face woman’s “prac-
tically unlimited scope of expenditure,” whilst bachelors
have only to admire the effect of it. Poetic justice seems
to be badly required in this matter, doesn’t it ?
Mr. Eddy, the imported Railway Commissioner, arrived in
Sydney on the I,6th inst. By the bye, I wonder if he will
try to introduce out here what the London Railway Com-
panies are on the eve of adopting—that is, one class only
on the trains. Wouldn’t there be a howl if he did?
Suburban snobs would “ positively expiah ” if class dis-
tinctions were done away with, for they love
those little notices on the platform—“ Wait here
first class ” —with all the zeal of their small,
second-class souls, and as to sitting next (as they
would probably frequently have to do) a man without a
coat, why it would remind them so much of papa in the
old days that they would go right off into hysterics. In
London, however, the change is almost un fait accompli,
“ the snobbishness which made matty people regard it as
essential to their position to travel ‘ first ’ has almost
completely disappeared,” says a London journal, “ and it
has dawned upon the directors that to cultivate the ous-
tom of the third-olass passenger is the surest way of in-
creased dividends.” Well, those wonderful directors
might long ago have abolished first-class as far as
their profit was concerned, for it, like the d.c. in a theatre
is the refuge of dead-headism and the happy hunting-
ground of free pass-ites for evermore.
It is formally announced at the W.E. that the hungry
individual can have high tea (this appears to be degenera-
ting into ribald rhyme), but when he goeth in to scoff he
comes outside to—pray, of course. The other evening
two units went into what the uncultured allude to as
“the eating enclosure “to have high tea. On perusal of
the carte joy lit each hungry eye for chicken, ham,
oyster-pates, and everything possible for the moderate
sum of 2s. 6d. were cn evidence. But, alas, when they
oalled for “ ham 'twas “ off ohicken also was “ off ’»
—in fact, though the hour was early and the eaters few )
everything was off right down the menu. “ What can
you give us ? ” they demanded with the calmness of a
great sorrow. “ Cold mutton,” replied the startled-look-
ing attendant, “ and—and scones.” That was the last
camel. The dcorway was darkened for a moment and all
was still. They never take Exhibition “ high tea ” now.
Viotorian Judge Molesworth has caught the measles,
and that is why I metrically remark that
Justice is blind, so all people agree,
With sight not so sharp as a weasel’s ;
But 'tis not enough that the goddess can’t see,
For, bless you, she s down with the measles !
A Brisbane correspondent covers four pages of foolscap
telling me what a perfect muddle Sir Anthony Musgrave’s
buried was. The “soldiers" strayed along the road in
twos, threes, and fours, like so many bedizened sheep
carrying their arms deoidedly “ at ease,” and behaving,
as Gtingoire would say, “as they would like to be”;
whilst here and there amongst the throng were indivi'
duals in evening dress ! The oldest inhabitant can’t think
what induced them to don the claw-hammer, except that,
during his Excellency’s life-time, as vice regal festivities
were so few and far between, they wanted to let the
household see how they looked when they’d “ got ’em
all on.”
The Eight-Hour Procession, on the 16th inst., was
viewed by the Baron and the three Hon. Misses Caring-
ton, Sir Henry Loch, Captain Eyeglass Ogilvy, and Mr.
F. H. Cowan—from the Colonial Secretary’s office. The
Colonial Secretary himself viewed it from his official
colonnade. Parkes doesn’t like groups. He prefers to
look isolated—and conspicuous.
Miss Kate Bishop has returned from New Zealand.
An enthusiastic Melbourne correspondent spreads his
soul over many pages in telling me what befel Essie Jenyns
at her farewell benefit at Melbourne. It appears she was
literally smothered in flowers arranged in every con-
ceivable fashion—a floral easel having, of course, an
honoured place because of Miss Jenyns’ confessed
artistic abilities. There was also presented the model of
the ship Mogul which is to be the privileged vessel
entrusted with the freight of Bill Holloway’s step-
daughter across the howling wobbly. (That figure of
speech is intended to be sentimentally sad.)
The last grand masquerade carnival at the Crystal Palace
Rink, Sydney, eventuated on the 22ad inst., when skating
till 10 and dancing till I a.m. were indulged in by a
throng of variously-attired entities so well got up that I
believe even their own mothers wouldn't have known
them under the motley circumstances. On the 31st inst.
theC.P.S.R. Co. tender a complimentary “ben." to Mr.
Alfred Wyburd. On the 30th inst. the Elite (or as the
Sydney culture sometimes pronounce it “the a'light”)
Skating Rink will be the scene of a “Grand White
Carnival,” when everyone on the floor must appear in a
chalky get-up or keep outside. The effect will, I should
say, be something between a soiree of ghosts and a
cemetery by moonlight.
The second official ball held at Government House,
Sydney, on the 16th inst. (postponed from the 10th on
acoount of the death of Sir Anthony Musgrave) was
chiefly rsmarkable for the punctuality displayed in the
arrival of the guests—mostly everybody being pre-
sent in time for the opening “ kwadrille.” Lady
Carington (who opened the ball with Sir Frederick
Darley) looked charming in white striped silk and
tulle, low cut corsage edged with silver braid
and trimmed with lace and tulle, diamond orna.
ments, and shoes and gloves en suite. Lady Darley (Lord
Oarington’s partner in the opening set) wore a combina-
tion of pale rose and ivory silk. Mrs. Admiral Fairfax,
black satin redingote embossed with white velvet worn
over a jupe of steel grey satin, diamond ornaments ;
Miss Dundas, pure whits ; Miss Walenn imitated a
tomato and wore red; Mrs. Sydney Burdehin wore
a beautiful gown of white watered silk lavishly
adorned with pearl embroideries. Miss Isabel Acres
(who made her debut info Sydney sassiety on
this occasion) wore albescent robes, of course, and
looked charming, which cannot be eaid of one sassiety
matron present who bobbed up serenely in the most
glaring red conceivable, and whose face and arms rivalled
her skirts. For the rest, white was the favorite colour, the
rooms were one mass of floral decorations, the catering
was up to the usual Government House standard—and
Need's band was responsible for the music.
ltosehill November meeting takes place on the Oth and
11th proximo.
It is an on dit that the menu cards at most of the Syd
ney clubs “ give evidence of flagrant violation of the game
laws.” Extra enthusiasts wish the “ polis ’ to “inquoire
afther the matther,” but I don’t think many prosecu-
tions would result if they did. For, you see, what
appears on the carte as “ snipe” is, in the olub kitchen,
a common or garden rooster allowed to get very high.
On the 17th inst. the resident medicos at Sydney Hos-
pital gave a farewell dinner to I)r. Gwynne-Hughes, who
has given the “ Orsepital ” the go by, and has now entered
into private practice at Redfern. After fhe dinner had
been negotiated, music and song were indulged in until
the w ee sma’ oors.
On the afternoon of the 20th inst, Lady Caring ton dis-
tributed the prizes in connection with the first floral fete
and several other things at the W.1.E., when such a jam
resulted that I had to say “Excuse me” whenever I
winked my eyelid, for it was sure to catch in somebody’s
bach-bair. Nearly all the frocks donned were spring-like
and pretty. Lady Carington wore white striped silk
touohed up with bows of black moire ribbon and steel
buokles, black passementerie bonnet, ornate ivory bows
and white aigrette, white gloves, white “ complexion ’
fall, and huge gold and black fan. The Hon. Misses
Ca ington (.5) were, as usual, alike in white pique robes
over blue skirts, wide leghorn hats simply trimmed with
white ribbon (the Hon. Misses Marjory and Alexandra
took prizes by the bye) ; Mrs. Admiral Fairfax wore
black surah with touches of mauve in her bonnet; Mrs.
Windeyer wore a Directoire costume of grey striped
silk over a jupe of darker grey ; Miss Whelan wore
grey with white vest. One of the secretaries
looked charming in white pongee silk beautifully draped
with which was worn a high straw hat wich white tulle
and ribbon ; and Mrs. Alban J. Riley wore one of those
charmingly graceful Ascot lace cloaks over a black silk
gown. The “ prize-giving " nearly resulted in a compli-
cated muddle owing to somebody not doing something
somewhere when he should have been doing it, and had
given his sacred word to do it; but as it was—except
that one of the prize-winners (whose excess of vice regal
adoration led her to leave the gubernatorial presence
backwards) turned a back-summersault in endeavouring
to olimb down the dais steps calves first, and that Lord
Carington and the Hon. Rupert Cariogton exchanged
yawn for yawn—the proceedings were what the S.M H.
would speak of as “reflecting great credit on all con-
cerned.’’
I have an idea which I am sure would, if carried out,
make the next Women’s Industrial Exhibition, wherever
held, a marvellous success. Let a prize be offered for the
mo3t favourite olergyman, to be awarded to the shepherd
who can show the largest collection of fancy work in the
smoking-cap-and-slipper line.
The ladies’ kitchen at the Women s Exhibition, of which
you get a bird’s eye view as you asoend the stairs on your
way to the gallery, is indeed a blessed sight. As I walked
up on Saturday I saw three or four of the very best
people in Sydney, my dear, languidly stalking straw-
berries and feebly stirring pudding-bowls while the real
business of the show was being run by a stout lady with
square elbows, who, I take it, was the professional cook
of the concern, for she handled the 10-pound lump of
beef as though it were a feather, and smacked it with her
hands and dumped it into the oven in the most familiar
and busines;-like manner.
I have received the following interesting communi oa
tion Miss Sappho Smith. Dsar Madam,—Concerning
the swell who married the maid. If that is your photo,
over your letter, Hove you, for you are about my own
age. When wc were boys—l mean a girl and a boy—a
friend of mine used to visit a lady of title resident in
Edinburgh, and they loved 01 both side 3, but not one
another. So, one day, the man elopsd with my lady’s
lady’s-ma'd. And for this reason a certain Captain,
well known when H.R.H. was here, has inherited a large
estate in the North of Scotland bscause he was the only
namesake that the aunts of my friend oould find to leave
it to. Do you remember the officer in question ? Look in
the Landed Gentry for the family whose motto is “Tide
What May” and you’ll spot him—Yours very lovingly
and affectionately, Scotty the Wrinkler.
The Rosehill October Race Meeting came off on the
Rosehill Racecourse on the 20th inst. in the presence of
“ Eddard Hanlan,” in a black top-hat, and a brass band.
Toe g.s. didn’t show maDy pretty dresses, but a string
coloured muslin embroidered in white with touches of
scarlet in the hat; a white pongee silk with high hat
ornate white moire ribbon ; a dawn-grey cashmere light-
ened with shrimp-pink, were all nice enough to envy.
White vests were much affected by the lords of creation
present, and Austin's catering was greatly appreciated
by all—including
Yours affectionately,
SA[?] S[?]
The S.M. Herald is exercised in mind
because some of its correspondents are unable to
get "Telegrams” delivered a few hundred yards
from their own doors, and, like its correspondents,
the paper fails to see that to be a “ telegram ” the
message must be *■ wired.” How the operator is
to "wire” from himself <o himself is a mystery.
The Bulletin contends that in the matter of
these near "telegrams” Colonel Cracknell can-
not do otherwise than he doe 3. But as The
Bulletin is a progressive paper, it suggests
that the large staff of telegraph boys at
suburban offices might be profitably em-
ployed in other work than merely delivering wired
messages. For instance, there might advanta-
geously be inaugurated a system of hourly deli-
veries of letters for the immediate vicinity of
suburban offices at a fee of, sav, sixpence. The
system obtaining now is that though a man may
post a letter in the William-street office for a
person living next door, that letter is carted to the
G.P.O and solemnly sorted out to a carrier, who
carefully brings it back and delivers it within half-
a-doz°n yards of its original starting-place. When
Postmaster-General Roberts has time he may per-
haps consider the matter.


A FEW SELECTED TESTIMONIALS.
CHARLES S. PACKER
* brilliant Pianist, and the greatest composer Australia
has known, the associate of Mendelssohn, Thalberg
Hummel and Weber; the accompanist of the world’s'
sweetest singers—Mario, Grisi, Lablache; the author of
*. Crown of Thorns,” and many other noble composi*
Inons, handed us the following
„, . . „ ‘‘Sydney, 7th March, 1883.
I have tested the Hapsburg Pianos, imported by
Messrs. Beale and Company, in all the various grades, and
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulness, and
power of the instruments. The tone and finish are all
that could be desired. The proper balancing of bass with
treble is strictly adhered to. Generally I consider them
unsurpassed by any instrument hitherto introduced.
(Signed) CHARLES PACKER, Royal Academician.”
Madame CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN wrote :
“ Ayant soumis les PIANOS HAPSBURG, de Messieurs
Beale et Compagnie aux PLUS STRICTES EPREUVES
Je declare avoir 4t6 aussi charmbe que surprise de la
bOUCEUR EXQUISE DE LEUR TOUCHER, unie a une
ampleur et une SONORITE REMARQUABLES. Je leB
recommande en toute sincerity. ALICE CHARBONNET-
KELLERMAN, du Conservatoire de Paris. Svdnev 2(1
Juin, 1883." *
CERTIFICATE.
r,. , lb^ ve i 8u ! ) j ected Me88rs - Beale and Co.’s HAPSBURG
PIANOS to the severest tests, and am greatly surprised
and delighted at their MARVELLOUS SWEETNESS and
POWER. I cordially recommend them.—(Signed! ALICE
CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN, of the Conservatoire of
Paris. Sydney, June 20, 1883.”
Governor Sir W. C. Robinson, of South Australia, the
romposer of “ Unfurl the Flag” and other patriotic songs
himself a thorough musician, examined and tested the
HAPSBURG PIANOS, and gave his unqualified recom
mendation, which was duly reported in the Adelaide
papers at much greater length than can be here given.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Lieutenant-Governor of Queensland
seleoted and purchased from us a Hapsburg Piano on
account of its special sweetness.
The BRISBANE COURIER.
“ The P ian0 used for the accompaniments and the solos
rtias a brilliant-toned Hapsburg, of which both singers and
players speak very highly.”
TELEGRAPH.
“The Piano used on the ocoasion was a Hapsburg of a
beautiful quality of tone and plenty of power.”
The AUSTRALIAN.
" T h « voices blended beautifully with the accompani-
ment, whioh was on one of the Hapsburg Grand instru-
merits. Tne tone of this instrument is exceedingly pure
and powerful, and its qualities under the thrilling touch
of the conductor were displayed with consummate effeot."
SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
" The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone."
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide
“The Hapsburg Pianos are all of excellent workman-
Ship. The manual throughout is remarkably sensitive to
the touoh, and the volume is admirably balanoed, and
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments "
VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
“ Bishop’s-oourt, Adelaide, November 29, 1883.
" Mrs. Kennion has much pleasure in saying that she
and those who have used the Hapsburg Piano at the
Court have been muoh pleased by the quality and sweet-
ness of the instrument.
“ Mrs. Kennion will have muoh pleasure In recommend-
*ug the Hapsburg Pianos.”
HAYDN ORGANS.
require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnut.
Guaranted for Ten Years.
Over ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND of these Organs
have been sold. The best only is the oheapest. The
Haydn Organs are of beautiful design, simple oonstruo-
tion, patent indiarubber bellows (whioh inseots will not
touoh), ivory keys, massive oases, exquisite tone.
HAYDN HARMONIUMS—Prices, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPANY. Catalogues Free by Post.
482, 484, 480 Gborgb-strmt, Svdntiy.
MO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE we will
supply you with Piano, Organ, or Harmonium
upos 1A8Y TIMB-PA VMBNTS.
M ELA oH R I N O.
This most Celebrated Brand of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES
Has now the LARGEST SALE in the World.
M. Melachrlno « Co., Cairo, and 21 C ockspur
Street, London,
Purve yors to H.R.H. Duke or Con-
nauoht, H.R.H. Prince Henry op Prussia, the Courts
and Ambassadors of Europe,
The KHEDIVAL CLUB
. „ ARMY and NAVY
CLUB
» GUARDS’ CLUB
„ CARLTON CLUB
Cairo & Alexandria
-London
London
London
inn i ~ and over
100 leading British and Continental Clubs.
The ROYAL ARTILLERY }
» BLACK WATCH ... j
» COLDSTREAM 1
GUARDS }
.. royal engineers!
„ lire guards
Woolwich, and 30
other Stations
Perth, Dublin and
Malta
Windsor
Chatham, Alder-
shott and Cairo.
London
and
150 other Kegimental Messes of the British Army.
WARREN & ROWN,
Sole Agents,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of the Choicest Brands of
nmn, mm ui mm oieahs
ALSO
43T Sole Agents for the fade mono Brand of
Egyptian Cigarette.
Fresh supplies arrive by every Mail Steamer. Cigarettes
always fresh and fragrant. Price Lists forwarded on
application.
H B a i r M ™'S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison
uoors open 7 Performance 7.45: Carriages 10.45
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
Mr. GEO. C. MILN,
in
RICHARD 111. RICHARD 111.
„ ™ Pbioes, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Flan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Streat.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band every afternoon
and evening; conductor, Mr. Geo. Vassie.
EVERT WEDNESDAY EVENING GRAND SPECIAL
NIGHT,
LADIES, Is.; GENTLEMEN, 2s.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
Alhambra music hall'
George Street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Grand Sacred and Classical concert
every
SUNDAY NIGHT at 7.30.,
when will be rendered a choice and select Pro-
gramme, under the conductorship of
Mr. CHAS. AUSTIN.
BEE DAILY PAPERS OF SATURDAY.
Th e a t r e royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lasar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Last two nights of
. CARRIE SWAIN,
• in her Great Success,
THE TOMBOY.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
ONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
An Entirely Newand Original Comedietta, entitled
BUBBLES, BUBBLES,
by Charles S. Fawcett, Esq.
Followed by
Pinero’s 3-Act Fantastic Comedy.
IN CHANCERY. IN CHANCERY.
ADMISSION—Ss., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager ... Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
ALWAYS ATTRACTIVE.
ALWAYS CHANGING.
MINSTRELSY, OLIO, and FARCE.
AL. W. FILSON and MISS LEE ERROL
AMERICAN SKETCH and COMEDY
ARTISTS.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orohestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony. 6d.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thubsday and Satubday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &o.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
s. FREEMAN A SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Batho’i Sakia* Powders. Orient Sonars Sins.
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD ft CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS. TEBSIAN SBE&SET,
Ao., Ac.
STEAM WORKS a
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
JgOTANY ! BOTANY! BOTANY I
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 8.30.
Grand Sacked and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH Director.
HAYMARKET MUSIC HALL,
George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee... ... ... ... George Barr.
Stage Manager Martyn Hagan.
GREAT AND GLORIOUS SUCCESS.
The Great and Wonderful
FAUST FAMILY,
and their GRAND COMBINATION.
Herr VON DER MEHDEN, the Musical Marvel.
THE GRAND RISLEY PERFORMANCE.
LITTLE DAISY THE CHILD WONDER.
THE BEAUTIFUL WHITE MARBLE
STATUARY.
Popular Prices, 2s. and Is.
General Manager, FRED. DARK.
“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. The
Caulfield Cup, run 25th October, 1888. 6,000
Subscribers of 10s. each. First Horse, £1,000;
Second, £500; Third, £250 ; Starters, £250 ; Non-
Starters, £250 (to be divided amongst
them). 100 Cash Prizes of £5 each ; 100 Cash
Prizes of £2 10s. each. The Melbourne Cup,
Run November 6, 1888. 10,000 subscribers at 20s*
each. First horse, £4000; Second, £2000; Thirdl
£1000; Starters, £700; Non-Starters, £BOO (to be
divided amongst them); 25 Cash Awards of £2O
each; 25 Cash Awards of £lO each; 100 Cash
Awards of £7 10s. each. In this event there are
four separate drawings—lst, the horse, then each
of the money prizes, which reduces the odds of a
prize to about ten to one. Also, one of the Mel
bourne Cup, 10,000 subscribers of 10s. each, with
the same number of prizes as in the above event,
of just half the value. Subscribers are particularly
requested to adhere strictly to the address at foot,
and register all letters, and apply early, so that
the fortunate drawers of horses may have time to
hedge. Enclose two stamped addressed envelopes,
for reply and result. Address “ Australia,” care
of Mr. Hugh Dalveen, Victoria Cafe Hotel, near
General Post Office. Geiorge-wt.. Sydney. N.S.W.
If a dog doesn’t like you, be will probably
lump you.
The last N.Z. earthquake hid a radius of
over .300 mile?.
The only thing that kisses all the year
round and never charges is the billiard-ball.—
Time,
Life-appointments to the Sydney Univer-
sity Senate are ended. Fellows will henceforth
be elected for a number of years only.
Poor old Ned Perkins, an old-time Auck-
land and Sydney licensed victualler, and a good
sport to boob, is in Chicago just now—terribly
down on his luck.
Mrs Chilsley : “ Seventy-five per cent, of
male criminals are married.” Mr. Chilsley :
“ Which shows how many men prefer gaol to
matrimony.”— Puck.
Melbourne Herald and the'lpcal Punch
have formed themselves into a mutual-admiration
society. The sixpennorth of misery grinds out
ghastly paragraphs in praise of the Herald, to
which the gifted Winter responds by calling
Punch “our able and facetious contemporary.”
A new glass, recently invented in Sweden,
is said to be capable, when made into a lens for a
microscope, of “ enabling us to distinguish the
two hundred and four million seven hundred
thousandth part of an inch.” Ibis also said that
there is great promise of this glass producing
wonderfully powerful telescope lenses, and a new
departure in astronomy.
Mr. R. S. Smythe learned the sad news of
Professor Proctor’s death on landing at Napier
(N.Z.) from Australia. In an “In memoriam”
notice contributed to the New Zealand Times,
Mr. Smythe says :
Proctor was not only known in New Zealand as a public
lecturer ; many people had the pleasure of his personal
acquaintance. Yet he was not what Dr. Johnson called
*• a clubable man.” He was put up at the Melbourne and
other leading clubs, but he never went. Although a Uni-
versity man, and keenly sensitive to anything approach-
ing rudeness, he disliked conventionality. With the com-
mon prejudice against members of the theatrical profes-
sion he had no sympathy. He was a genial man, and
considered that everybody engaged in entertaining the
public was doing useful work. Once in this very
city he spent £2O in providing supper for a full circus com-
pany. Another time in the Theatre Royal, Sydney, he
went on in the olub-soene in Lord Lytton’s oomedy of
“ Money.” He did it merely to please the members of
the company. Celebrated men have made leoturing
tours in Australia, and drawn large audiences ; but they
were not always popular in private life. Mr. Proctor, on
the other hand, was universally beloved. In hotels,
from the landlord to the boots, everybody was anxious to
do all he could to make him comfortable ; and I have
known more than one instance when the waiters and
chambermaids kept out of the way when he was leaving ;
they did not like to take tip from such a very pleasant
gentleman.
EWT 0 N AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS
FULL" SUITES for DINING-ROOM.—SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting hammock chair,
Patented.
'Z-M
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
Occasional tables in aii woods, immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
■ S B
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari.
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart*
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo*
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
D
RAWING ROOM OABI-
NETS.
. Kaut English
Chippendale Designs,
Newton & Lamp,
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN.
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
ANBHNT*
FUBNITUBI,
A Yibt Ooufuii
ABBOBTMBBTI,
Many quite new design*,
Nbwtoh & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order In
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
KOCKING EASY CHaIRS, elegant and rest*
ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
T> EDSTEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), beet
make: also, Spiral Spring,
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d,j
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s. j Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.|
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
WTON AND LAMB.
Furniture and pianoforte
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
Show Rooms and Manufactory t
BPR.INO A O'CONNELL STREETS.
Messrs. BEALE & 00. beg to announce that
they are now in occupation of their new and extern
■ite warehouses at the rear of their new buildings
at 482 and 484 George-street. In anticipation of a
large increase in the sale of the inimitable Haps,
bhtg Pianos, they have just landed out of Peninsu-
lar and Oriental steamers and other ships a really
magnificent choice of these celebrated instruments,
which, by sheer merit, have won their way in
public favour beyond all competitors. Many
thousand Hapsburgs have been sold throughout
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies have
been sent to us testimonials expressing perfeot
satisfaction.
The construction of the Hapsburg differs in-
herently from that of other pianos. The following
are some of the qualities which have together
placed it in pre-eminence :—
1st. The most easy and durable action yet in-
vented, viz., check-lever with front escapement,
rhe parts have been selected with extreme care,
the wood employed being pencil-cedar, an expen-
sive material, but one which will neither shrink,
cast, nor warp.
2nd. The wires are of very best steel, in the
bass covered with copper only. The vibrations
are reverberated by a sounding board specially
secured against changes of temperature, imparting
a clear full, round, delicious singing tone in
marked contrast to the tin-kettly, metallic sounds
of inferior instruments.
3rd. All Hapsburgs are now double-oblique, th.
strings being of greater length, thus giving fuller
volume than the old, straight-strung pianos.
4th. All Hapsburgs are trichord.
5th. All have seven octaves A to A.
6th. They have consolidated iron frames of great
strength. Theseframesare square reaching from the
bottom of the case to the extreme top of the wrest-
plank, securely bolted through the latter. Compound
sustain the whole with absolute rigidity.
That these precautions are necessary may be un-
derstood from the fact that the tension of the
wires equals a suspended weight of 13 tons. Thus
she rapid mutations of our climate are resisted
and tuning is only required at long intervals.
7th. The Felts are clinched on the hammers, in-
stead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every piano excepting the Haps-
burg.
8th. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
Plate as a special safeguard against change. A
split Wrest-plank is an unknown accident to a
Hapsburg.
9th. Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
Cockroaches, Moths, Mice, &c. Wire-gauge
backs are provided.
10th. All interior blocks and bearings are
secured in their places by screws, which is a great
exception to the usual style of construction.
. 11th. The whole action is made adjustable and
interchangeable.
12th. The Outer Cases are of original and chaste
designs and of perfect finish. They are made of
well-seasoned, durable, and beautiful woods, and
can be had in Walnut, Rosewood, or Ebony, with
or without gold engraving.


The most profitable use for a few pounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Imestment Co., Ltd., 96 Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest suocess of the
age.
When next you bake try Pemell'e Snow-whits Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Why be without fish when, by having one of
our Fish-Traps, you can have plenty ? Fastway’s,
411 George-street, Sydney.
Saturday, October 27,
%/ 7 '
On the Ground, at 3 o’clock.
GLADYS PARK.
GLADYS PARK.
GLADYS M, ++ GLADYS PARK,
GLADYS PARK.
GLADYS PARK.
Situated in the Fast-Growing and Popular
District of
Glen Iris. Glen Iris.
Situated in the Fast-growing and Popular
District of Glen Iris.
On the
HIGH STREET STATION,
HIGH STREET STATION,
Outer-Circle Line.
Outer-Circle Line.
BEAUTIFUL UNDULATING COUNTRY!
SPLENDID VIEW!
WITHIN TEN MINUTES' WALK
OP
GLEN IRIS STATION,
ON THK
DIRECT GLEN IRIS LINE.
WITHIN TEN MINUTES' WALK
OP
GLEN IRIS STATION
ON THE
DIRECT GLEN IRIS LINE.
WITHIN 10 MINUTES’ WALK of GLEN
IRIS STATION,
SUMMERHILL and FAKENHAM ROADS.
The Business Frontages
All Adjoin the
Fakenham-road Entrance to
High-street Station.
MUNRO AND BAILLIEtJ
WILL SELL,
In conjucbion with
DOHERTY & TURNER,
OP
Premier Buildings
ON THE GROUND,
AT THREE O’CLOCK,
VALUABLE VILLA mi BUSINESS SITES,
Having Frontages to
SUMMERHILL ROAD
and
FAKENHAM ROAD.
SUMMERHILL ROAD
and
FAKENHAM ROAD,
Glen Iris. Glen Iris.
£lO per Lot deposit,
Balance by Quarterly Bills up to 24 months, at
6 per cent.
Solicitor :
A. G. MAJOR, Esq., 11 Market Street,
Melbourne.
Surveyors:
BRUFORD & BRAIM, Chancery Lane,',
Melbourne.
Local Agents :
WALLACE and MACPHERSON,,
Camberwell ;
ROBERTSON and MASTERS,
Caulfield.
Free Railway Passes*
LUNCHEON IN WATERPROOF MARQUEE
Trains leave Flinders Street Station for Cam.
berwell at 1.45,1.55, 2.5, 2 15, 2.25, and 2.45, to
be met by drags and waggonettes which will con'
vey intending purchasers to the ground.
Plans now ready.
The Reteree
penalty, won the Middle Park Plate. This
Donovan is another of the phenomenal two-year-
olds, winning race after race, for which Aus-
tralian punters sigh in vain. Our youngsters are
as unreliable as a time-payment sofa.
• •
Neville Forder, now a Sydney pressman,
established the Ponsonby Football Club —the
champion N.Z. club —in 1876. This club won the
Auckland Senior Cup 10 years in succession.
• * *
Last Saturday’s attendance at Caulfield
beat the record, and there can be no question that
the management have adopted a paying policy in
not charging extra for admission to the saddling
“ birdcage. - ’ The main body of race-goers—for
whom Caulfield is quite as attractive as Fleming-
ton —are beginning to understand that half-a-
sovereign goes farther at the former meet ing, and
they reckon it the better show at the price; As
tittle goes on, and this fact becomes proverbial, the
occasional backer—who likes to he right in it when
he is there—will prefer to have his occasional day
out at the less expensive meeting. So much for
backing’em !
* • •
Apart from the Cup there was nothing of
peculiar interest about Saturday’s racing. The
defeat of Lord Allen for the Maiden Stakes was
not a mystery to those who took stock of that dis-
appointing animal in the paddock. Rudolph’s
victory was partly attributable to Hales, who
always handles a two-year-old better than any
jockey in Australia, and partly owing to “stiff-
ness ” of several better-looking opponents. The
It is stated on good authority that the
great frequency with which race-meetings are held
in Sydney and Melbourne is playing havoc with
the bookmakers. Week after week the same
horses are started in these suburban meetings, ahd
the races become practically trials with the colours
up, and the race-gOers get to know a horse’s form
to a pound or two. The result is that in every
race it becomes a pretty easy matter to spot the
winnet, and the bookies suffer accordingly. They
can Very seldom lay more than one or two horses,
and as meetings are held so often it is not worth
while for an outsider to try very hard, hs he can
make a certainty of the next handicap. When
races took place very seldom the quality of half
the horses was unknown, but now the “clever”
stables always can tell when they have a srcod
thing on. It is quite pitiful to hear the metalli-
cians at Canterbury Park or Rosehill, after they
have laid their full book against one horse, trying
to “get round ” a bit. “ Any price some of these
runners—any price you like, so help me !” “ Won't
anybody back anything but the favourite !” and
so on. However, they generally come out
right end up by laying absurdly short
prices. The market is very sensitive and one
will hear: “Two to one Flyaway,” “Two
to one Flyaway,” vociferated all over the paddock,
and the moment any one invests a £5-note on that
animal the cry is altered to “Even money,” and
taken up by every penciller of the crowd. In
England it takes a deal of money to alter a horse’s
£rice But then, in England they have much
etter supporbers in the shape of a lot of wealthy
young noodles, such as Jubilee Juggins Benzon,
who have plenty of money to bet with, and who
don’t know one end of a horse from the other. If
our bookmakers had a few “ mugs ” of this sorb to
deal with they could afford to open their hearts a
little.
• * *
At Rosehill last Saturday ib was curious to
hear the odds being laid on the Caulfield Cup,
which was then being run hundreds of miles
away. When the time came for the news to
arrive, the crowd surged round the committee-
room, and soon the beaming Mr. Rowley, the Club
secretary, came out with a telegram, which he
proceeded to read. There was a silence in which
you might have heard a mangle drop; strong men
clutched hold of the fence with excitement, for
hundreds and thousands of pounds depended on
the contents of that telegram. Then he read out
deliberately : “ The Charmer, Bravo ” —but he got
no further. There was a wild yell of delight, and
people shook one another’s hands and jumped on
their hats in ecstasy : heaps-of them had backed
The Charmer and they offered to stand one another
champagne and so on on the strength of it. Then
Mr. Rowley lifted up his voice and stilled the
tumult. “Wait a bit,” he said, “you haven’t
heard it all,” and he read out: “ The Charmer and
Bravo are equal favourites.” That was all. The
supporters of The Charmer ceased their yelling,
and the men who had backed Spade Guinea and
Touchstone again began to say what a certainty
they had. When the news did arrive, and
“ Chicago ” was read out, a dismal silence fell on
the astonished throng, and they sadly dispersed
and went home to weep in secret. The winner
was hardly backed at all on this side of the border.
• * •
The match between the two amateur
boxers, Seale and Sandall, comes off shortly and
is exciting much interest. Sandall ha 3 a strong
following, but nothing will ever make the
Sydney folk waver in their allegiance to the
phenomenal champion amateur, George Seale.
No one knows quite how good Seale is,
as he has always won his matches easily.
Seale is not an uncommonly hard hitter, and he
has none of the “ terrific righthander ” hits on
which some boxers rely. The true strengbh of his
boxing lies in his quickness and his wonderful en-
durance —he can force the fighting and carry on at
lightning speed for three or four rounds, and then
go on at the same pace till further orders, while
his antagonist feels groggy and wants a spell very
badly. About the fourbh round when it is “ bel-
lows to mend ” with most men, he is just beginning
to enjoy himself : and for this reason, even if he
could not box over well, he would be a terribly
hard man for anyone to beat. As it is, he com-
bines great science with his wonderful staying
powers, and we don’t expect to see his number
taken down yet awhile.
• * *
Young Gorry appears to have been too
energetic altogether in his riding in the Caulfield
Cup. A lot of the other jockeys openly accused
him of foul riding, and they said that he wilfully
spoilt the chances of more than one favourite.
This sort of thing ought to be inquired into, as it
is very easy for a horse to be blocked from all
chance of winning by a little judicious shepherd-
ing, and if the committees take no notice of such
matters all sorts of swindles will be perpetrated.
• « •
A correspondent writes to say that The
Bulletin’s statement that Sir Edward Baines
eliminates all reference to horse-racing from his
paper—the Leeds Mekcuky—is incorrect. All
that is done is to ignore betting-news.
* • *
Oat of the nine starters in the Caulfield
Great Foal Stakes this year, four were Neckersgat
foals, and three of the others were St. Albans.
Three of theNeckersgats—Montalto, Lady Agnes,
and Britomarte—filled the places.
• * *
Friar’s Balsam, the unbeaten English two-
year-old of last season, is cabled as winner of the
Champion Stakes, having vanquished Minting at
weight for age. As the horse had been seriously
amiss since the Two Thousand Guineas, and was
not allowed to start for either Derby or St. Leger,
his return to tiptop form would be a regular facer
for the public. At the same Newmarket meeting
the Duke of Portland’s Donovan, carrying full
“ BULLETIN" PRIMER-LESSON XX
This is Di-og-en-es. He is look-ing for an hon-est man. A Tail-or’s Black-list
is not a ve-ry good place to look for an hon-est man us-u-al-ly. One is more like-ly
to find a non-est man there. But you, my child, are too young to under-stand puns.
Study hard, my son, and by and by you may be an editor or a lawyer and make puns
of your own and perhaps if you are a ve-ry good lawyer you may get on the Black-
list. Or, would you rath-er be a Tail-or and have a nice Black-list your-self?
Steeplechase was free from falls, under which cir-
cumstances three racehorses finished in front of
four plodding commoners, and the lightest weight
won. Finally Bothwell pulled off his third handi-
cap within a week, beating the much-talked-about
Gladstone. That Grand Old Man, on whom
Mick O’Brien rode his third “second” for the
day, is probably not much of a flier after all.
• * *
Twenty horseß started for the Caulfield
Cup, and if Touchstone had changed market
places with Tradition, the race would have been
confined to the ten popular fancies quite half a
mile from home. Before Chicago came with a
final run (it was hardly the historic “rush”) there
was nothing to choose between Enfilade, Plutarch,
or The Charmer, although the whole three were
evidently worked out. Tradition never looked
very dangerous until within 20 yards of the
winning-post, and it this big horse is to be judged
by the average thoroughbred, he must inevitably
land the Melbourne Cup, in which he meets
Chicago on 171bs. better terms. To all ap-
pearances, Tradition was only half-trained
(using the term as applied to horses in general),
but his owner and immediate connections con-
sidered him fit enough to win on Saturday,
therefore he may be fittest when fattest, so long
as the fat is all on the outside. Cardigan looked
rather fleshy, also Bravo, but they were skeletons
compared with Tradition. Spade Guinea ran suf-
ficiently well to promise a return to her best New
Zealand form, and she divided the cake for
quality with the winner Chicago. Charmer
looked like slipping over six furlongs, but her lack
of inches was more apparent in a field of good
horses than on the training ground. After the
Cup, there was a brief scrap between Sanders and
Gorry, arising out of a jostle in which Bravo in-
terfered with Stanley and Spade Guinea. But
the contest resulted in a draw, as usual.
An Australian Eleven incident, which was
not cabled over. In the match with Lord Londes-
borough’s Eleven, at Manchester, five of Our Boys
went out in succession, with the score standing at
90, and the next three wickets made 0 runs-8
wickets for 0 runs. Before this collapse Bonnor
and Bannerman were scoring freely, and after it
the Englishmen were equal to an innings, of 145.
What a cable we should have had if positions had
ben reversed ! Think of it ! “ Extraordinary
Bowling Performance ! Great Australian V ic-
tory !” In this match, by the way, Briggs took
13 wickets for 40, and he has proved himself, all
through the season, to ba a wonderful bowler
when he chooses so to be. But Briggs—as The
Bulletin darkly hinted some two or three years
ago—doesn’t always choose.
•
The Maori football team, in England, ap-
pear to corlibine the attributes of a football team
and a circus. When they go on the ground they
have their mats and rugs od, and they dance a
war-dance and sing a war-song before beginning
play. This intimidates the other side and attracts
huge piles of gate-money. The Maori umpire,
instead of the ordinary walking-stick which
umpires use, carries a war club. The British
spectators sit by in a pleasiDg flutter of excite-
ment expecting him to dash out the brains of some
of the players on the slightest sign of a dispute.
Of course the show draws like a mustard-plaster,
and the promoters ought to make heaps of money.
Sydney pedestrianism has a vocabulary of
its own. In a descriptive article on the Ashfield
ground a scribe says:— “ Bli me, Ashfield is
bully. ” We have seen many men sent to gaol on
the “language ” ticket for much les3 than this.
• • *
One of the last matches played by the
Australian Eleven “was mainly remarkable for
the untiring patience of Bannerman, who played
the English bowling with great care and judg-
ment. He was in for 55 minutes before he made
his first run.” Considering that Bannerman still
lives, we are disposed to think that the untiring
patience of the spectators was humanely remark-
able. By the way, it appears that the Notting-
ham Eleven have got a bad name “at home ” for
playing slow cricket, and yet Shrewsbury’s visit-
ing teams—chiefly Nottingham men—generally
contrived to score a bit faster than their Austra-
lian opponents.


Business Announcements.
BARBERS’
SUPPLY
HOUSE.
Hairdressers
ABOUT
COMMENCING BUSINESS.
AS WELL AS THOSE
Already Established,
WILL FIND AT
CRAIG & AITKEN’S
NEW SOUTH WALES
Barbers’ Supply
HOUSE,
SHAMPOOING APPARATUS,
American and Colonial Hairdressing Chairs,
SCISSORS, COMBS, BRUSHES,
Mirrors, Hot Water Urns,
AND
EVERT REQUISITE H
AT
PRICES WHICH DEPP COMPETITION!
Agents for the Celebrated
‘PLUM’
BRAND of
Razors & Scissors.
COMPLETE
Saloon Outf/tl
FROM
£lO UPWARDS.
ASSISTANTS ENGAGED
Town and Country Customers.
Note Address—
Craig &' Aitkin,
New outh Wales
Barbers Supply
HOUSE,
682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Price Ltst Posted on Arrltoatton.
A Lovbly and Dklicatb Complbxion.—This is ob-
tained by using Rowlands’ Kalydor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
artioles.
ATISTf? AT.T A ma, y be summed up as
AWNiftAUla the coming colony, and
the relation in which it will stand toward Austra-
lasia will evidently be one of great influence,—
E. Faveno
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Possesses Copper, Lead, Tin, Gold, Silver and
Iron Ore in abundance. Her climate is mild and
healthy, her timber—especially the Jarrah—is re-
nowned for its durability and usefulness. Great
railways are being constructed connecting PERTH,
tlic Capital City, with the interior.
Telegrams respecting the Gold Discoveries ap-
pear almost daily in the newspapers.
The Colony is going right ahead on its prosperous
way. _ Investors are now offered a rare chance of
securing Blocks of Land almost in Perth, the
Capital City of this coming Colony, for a
“mere song.”
The EVELEIGH ESTATE,
Perth, Western Australia,
Only about half-a-mile from the city, fronting a
Government road, excellently situated, good build-
mg land, must return a handsome profit to buyers.
ONLY £lO EACH BLOCK.
£1 deposit; balance 10s. monthly. No interest.
Torren’s Title. Free deeds to purchasers of 5 lots.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets containing valu-
able information posted on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Comnany, Limited,
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
T>
5
■JL
ei
O
hr
s
o
o
li
T
yU.ENTS
DEUSSA& PHILLIPS
' 3&«5 Barrack Street.
&
%
o
a
sE
*
rA
&
Yi
o
V
&
V
£
o
&
A
v
O
aE
&
&
&
V
&
*
50
&•
o
c>
£>
r\
O
<o
<c N
V
&
3*
x>
*
O
390 a GEORGE S T -
William n Australian Insecticide Is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effeot. This is the only
genmne Inseot Destroying Powder, being oertain death to
all hinds of mseote, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Inßeotioide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxeß by all ohemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King,
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs KlUott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rouslllon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-olass Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 Gfeorge-street, under
Marshall, ohemist, near King.street.*
SEASON, 1888 and 1889.
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THE
PUBLIC.
J. H. WHITE,
(Member of Tattersall’s Club, Sydney and Vlo-
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
176, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. H. White’s Weekly Circular of Current
Prices on all forthcoming events (as quoted at the
Sporting Clubs) forwarded Gratis to any part of
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name and
address.
Centennial Hotel,
SCOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
Newcastle.
Wines, Beers, and Spirits a Speciality.
Hot, Cold, and Shower-Baths on each Flat.
BILLIARDS 1 BILLIARDS!
THIS Hotel is now opened, and admitted to be
the Best Fitted and Furnished Hotel in the
Colony. It is beautifully situated, being directly
opposite the Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to the
Railway Station, and convenient to all the Public
Buildings. A porter meets all trains and steamers.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
WALTER SIDNEY, Proprietor.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Aot, 1871.
CAPITAL, £600,091.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
3 months, 5 per oent.
6 » 6 ii
13 „ 7 „
And a Bonus deolared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per oent. 6 months 1£ per oent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
FOR SALE.—Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
U 0 LETIN Office.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
HO. 78 CLAREHCE STREET, SYDNEY.
• I
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE.
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE RUYINR OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE HOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. 7
The Bast Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
18 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agsota lot the above for New South Wales aad Queeßsiaad.
Also
Im;
Business Announcements.
Dandelion Bitters,
We reoommend these BITTERS to be taken twi
or three times a day j a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, Is more reliable for remov-
ing all Impure seoretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will Sod
these Bitters Invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row b Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
„ . M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 80, 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure In recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
Buffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several dootors for It without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I oan, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from liver oomplalnt to try them.—
Yours,
_ _ . 0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 11, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to
medicines of different kinds for affections of
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de
billty, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and ohange In
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflioted as I have
been may take advantage of tihaiw,
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
~ „ “ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
Mciiri, Rds Row and Company, Sydney, 11
mk
»*■
m
JOSEPHSON_S_ OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD. BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such am
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint
ment for Piles, and have found Tuch relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKINGROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declarations.
“ I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the publio to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
“Declared at Sydney, 12th August, 1881, before
me.
")Slgned) Wm. Henderson, J.P,
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANS
BITTERS, prepared solely by
EPW ROW anp COMPANY.


Business Announcements.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
Pitt Street.
BRUITO IT’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR,
Qua be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ... ... ... 84 Pm Stbik.
BRISBANE... ...Edwabd Stbim.
MELBOURNE ... „.BpwwaM BT*air,
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured 1
The Greatest Success!
of Modern Times. /
CONSULT
/ All'Chronio Disease
\ are Curable.
Jr. E. I KUSELMN, Consulting Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
60 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE,
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance. .
Mr Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
aB ReaZ toefollowing Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1886
To H. E. Kugblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o. „ , , .
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
Of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883 but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the oure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
inourable and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lunsrs and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
vour advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
vou could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
whioh I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medioines for a month I was considerably worse ; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lunge
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die, I remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT. Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
Eg- All Consultations Free.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
not being Effected.
4 somzisN EEMEDI
To all Afflloted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Dolobeux, Aching Pains In the Limbs,
Facb, or Head,
Whr suffer those excruciating Pains when ons
bottle of
DR. SOUTH AMS RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure In a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No ohange In diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 19s.
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only oures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medloal
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. 1. ROSS, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 Georee-street, only.
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin, for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
t HOTEXj,
oornkk'ok
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
r
COSCKOVi
-1®
re
&
\CLf®Ssir,
TO
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’ts Hotel) Proprietress.
mARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
the briqhton ow b.w.
4 TP the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., ara
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall, Besides having a most rtchtrckl
dinner, you can enfay from the balconies the magnificent view of the Bea and surrounding country
here also you can have good company, good wines—ln faot, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable oanbe found at this really flrst-olass hotel. Fishing and Pionlo Parties provided. Tablt
is H6ts at 1 o’clock dally and Sundays, No expense 1b spared by Mrs. Kilminbtub to make her
visitors oomfortable, and her Hotel the best In the oolony,
■rs. KUIMTER, CSarandon Hotal,
Oman. OOKAN RKAOH. MANOR.
m
%W BILLIARD! TABLE SHOW ROOMS St FACTOR'
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &o. s MADE ON THE PREMISES
Old, Tables re-J&tted by our own men,
ffIjOEHS, CUES, BALLS in stock,also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS & 10W54S
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
LjUttle George Street. SYDNEY, 1.5. W., and Soto Square, MIML
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washebs, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber goodß lor all purpose!.
Lists and Samples on Application.
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
/* consequents pf imitations vf i f'flBjkWORG£STEE$lXiiU9
Sa VCS tuhiiti art chtcutatid b duett* Ou Publit. Lea ami
Gave to request (hat Partkaan G 0 lhas
Heart ih&Sigiatuft tfo&m
te>ftksndlt)tiuh
& folk of ike original WORCEBI
SAUCE is Pennine*
V.V/.v
Ask fot LEA mdPSRRffIS? Sauce, and see Nanu on Wrapper, Label Sadb «*&
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester f Crosu mm*
Maclrtotll, London . &c., <5rV. l and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the wortA
4 0M iurfp Oqbdbp £ Gh
Is 37'O’a.x Sololoy ?
IIZZ
as*-MSS'
Most people have one of
some sort. If you don’t
happen to have one, or
if you have been indulg-
ing in one which returns
hut a poor satisfaction for
your outlay, get rid of it
as soon as possible. Better
he without than keep a
had one. If you have a
taste for Art : if you
want a remunerative
hobby—try
Photography !
Instruments and Materials are not the costly toys they were. Anyone can learn it—every-
one can profit by it. The cost of every requisite for a beginner is so low it will surprise you.
i :Y
SATISFY. YOURSELF BY A VISIT TO OUft
WHOLESALE vn PHOTOGRAPHIC ca® WAREHOUSES.
! : \
LICHTNER & CO.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
S Hayes 9 Buildings, Albert Street, BRISBANE.
gg- s en( i 2d. Stamp for our Illustrated Instruction Book and Catalogue, “ THE AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHER.”
Assurance Companies.
mHB AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
A MRNT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, If Vlo,,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ...
Paid-up and Subscribed ... «. <BS,OuB
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman,
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company reoelves deposits at the following
rates of interest -
For 8 years - 7 per oent. I For 1 year - 8 per oent.
For 6 months 1 per oent. 1 For 8 months— 8 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
Of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, Including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auotion and
Private Contract.
Hiad Ovrioi —10, & 12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. 0. NEILD, Manager.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
Established 1849.
Head Office—B7, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq., M.P., Chairman
JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-ohairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Chief Medical Officer:
JAS. 0. COX, M.D,
Actuary:
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary:
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
This Society is the only Australian Life Offioe
which declares a BONUS EVERY YEAR.
The PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF PROFIT
are—the high rate of interest obtained on the ac-
cumulated funds; the small percentage that the
expenses of management bear to the annual in-
come ; and the extremely favourable rate of mor-
tality which continues to be experienced.
MEMBERS MAY BORROW on their Policies
to the extent of 90 per cent, of the Surrender
Value.
Policies are not forfeited so long as the Sur-
render Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
BONUSES VEST after Policies have been two
full years in force.
ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
The Australian Mercantile Loan A Guarantee
COMPANY, Limited.
Capital £600,000.
Sydney Offices: Corner of Met l York Streets,
Accident, Insurance and Guarantee Department.
General Accidents, Employers’ Liability,
Fidelity Guarantee Policies
Issued on the most Favourable Terms.
Pkoposal Forms and Tables of Rates upon
application.
Robt. B. Wallace - Accident Superintendent.
The Company also, in its Banking and Commercial
Departments, make Immediate Advances upon Deeds of
Land and all classes of Commercial Securities.
DEPOSITS received at 12 months, 7 per oent. ; six
months, 6 per cent.; and three months, 5 per cent., and
bonus at maturity.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL,
General Manager.
Business Announcements.
K'NG’S VIEWS
Op SYDNEY,
JENOLAN CAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&C., &Os,
315 SEOEGE SI,, between Hutn-it, and 5,P,0,
TATTERSALL’S
MOXSTG& COKSULTATIOIT3
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“ Evening News.” Address, “ Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
FOR SALE.— Two grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.


Saturday, October 27,
At 3 o’clock,
On the Ground. On the Ground.
At 3 o’clock.
Malvera State Estate
(Late “GLENDEARo"),
The Property of J. 0. Christy, Esq., and held by
him for a Quarter of a Century.
This fine Estate has at last changed hands, and
will now be
Subdivided and Sold
IN
Business & Villa Sites
BY
MONRO AND BiILLIEU,
As above advertised.
The Malvern Station stands upon the land,
and the business frontages absolutely face the
station entrance. Step from the railway platform
and you are on the estate.
STREETS OF HOUSES
Bound it on the north and east sides,
And on the
South side shops are built and let well.
THE LAND IS
The Key of Malvern,
ARMADALE,
TOORAK,
AND
CAULFIELD DISTRICTS.
The unlocking of this Paddock is the
EVENT of the YEAR 1888.
Station-street must be the main artery
Through which
ALL TRAFFIC
Must flow from the immense neighbourhood
Which surrounds the
MALVERN STATION,
The
Magnificent Orchard
Will not be cut down except to take the roads
through, therefore most of the
Villa Lots
Will have an ABUNDANCE of the
Choicest Fruit Trees
On them, All in full BEARING.
Those who wish to inspect this
LOVELY SPOT
Need only take a ticket to the
MALVERN STATION,
And they are on the land at once.
The view from any part of the Estate is most
Lovely, and the purchaser of an Allotment in this
charming spot will for all time be able
" Tt'Rtn the Burnt of a Ovist Ere,"
DO NOT INVEST OUTLYING
PROPERTY
Until you have taken
ONE LOOK AT THIS.
YOU WILL HAVE TO WAIT FOR YEARS
RoR other land to rißen.
THIS tS RIPE ALREADY.
The vendors have hald offers for part of the
festate already at GREATLY ADVANCED
PRICES, but they'have determined to submit the
whole of it to the ordeal of the hammer, which is
to be wielded by
Mr. BAILLIEU himself,
ON SATURDAY, 27th Inst.
At 3 o’clock,
In a Waterproof Tent,
On the Ground.
The TERMS
Hill Be Unusually Liberal.
It is NO FICTION to say that the land must
DOUBLE ITSELF in six months.
DR. ORICHARDS.
OM
RO
L'T
NSu
CO
D*R!CHARDS
This eminent Specialist, Founder,"and'Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
Private Nervous, and Skin Diseases.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these wildly recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
Young Men
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of fid. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
Free, a large Cloth-bound Book,
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
One Pound Is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for the famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
retaain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
cases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
(off Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
Consultation Free.
§ HOTEL,
LI A UNGESTOR, TASMANIA.
Proprietor.
Vise:, Frsaoh liprs & Hamas Cigars a Speciality life House, Cnisine Fraieaiss,
ftowlancfc’ .
Vlaea^arOil
jm been known for nearly 100 years at the belt and safest preserver. restorer and beautlfler o 2
S® human hair; it is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, of which most hah;
uasftorers are composed and which ruin the health (rid# Medical papers), will keep fresh and
sweet in the hottest climates and hat a delicate and fragrant bouquet of roses : it prevents habr
strengthens weak hair, eradicates scurf or dandriff, and renders the
hair seft, silky,
St is especially i .. .
san also be had in a
(Mling off or turning grey, strengthens weax nair, eradicates scurz c _ -
' :;v - " .curly and glossy: it also stimulates the growth of whiskers and moustachess
recommended for children aa forming the oasis of a beautiful head off hair, ass:
GOLDEN COLOUR, _
which, after great time and trouble, has been especially prepared for the use of golden-hairse!
Children and fair or grey-haired adult*. Sizes St. ®d.; ts. ; family bottles, equal So four smalls
10s. 6d.; and double that size, 21».
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR Is a healing and refreshing preparation for
iihe face, hands and arms; it eradicates freckles, tan, sunburn, eczema, redness and roughness
of the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produces a beautiful and delicate
complexion.
ROWLANDS 000NT0
whitens the teeth, prevents and arrests decay,
... . *■ —ywhere for
_ lons under
similar names.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Eliiot'S Bbos., and B. Pbossbb & 00., Sydney.
strengthens the gums, and gives a delightful fragrance to the'breath. Ask anywhere for
BO WLAN DS’ articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, ILondon, and avoid spurious imitations
COURVOISIER’S BRANDY
This celebrated Cognac, as supplied to the late
Emperor Napoleon 111., is guaranteed to be of
the purest and finest quality.
T. CURRAN & CO.
W. JAMESON A CO.’S
"MARROWBONE LANE" WEISR7,
Which possesses all the delicacy of bouquet, rich-
ness and purity, characterising a carefully-prepared
article that has been favourably known to the
world for the past 130 years. In bulk or case.
T. CURRAN & CO.
CHAMPAGNE.
“ Beriet Fils & Co.” Dry, elite and first quality.
Excels all other wines, and commands favour in all
the Courts of Europe.
Thos. Curran & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS,
Temple Court, King Street.
THE ITALIAN BEE Co.,
Parramatta, Supplies Italian
Queens and Bees, Extracted
and Comb Honey, Frame
Hives and Implements.
MR. EGERTON CLAIRMONT is no longer
in our employ, nor is he authorised to
canvas for Subscribers or collect Accounts,
Bulletin Newspaper Company, Limited.
JUST PUBLISHED.
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
US" PROFUSELV ILLUSTRATED H
BY
The Bulletin’s well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. Mlay.
Price ■ ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, Is. 3d. (except Queensland).
ALL AGENTS.
A special representative of Messrs. H. H.
Warner and Co., of “Safe Cure ” celebrity, is in
Brisbane.
Only a few more £lO allotments Everleigh
Estate Perth, West Australia. Send for Plans
and Pamphlets. The Intercolonial Investment
Co , 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
A correspondent inquires how it is that
the N.S.W. Minister for Justice allows a Govern-
ment officer at Coonamble to serve as an alderman
in contravention of the regulations.
m
“ They fit perfectly , and are
far superior to all the other
j Corsets I have tried."
I (Signed) Mane Roze.
XKE Y&W
PATENT *
Diagonal Seas Corset
Will not Split in the Seams nor
tear in trie Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfeot
Comfoijt, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corsetstamped'" Y &N Patent
Diagonal a earn Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
Three Gold Medals 11
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
GBD. GBD. GBD
■■IB OAMOUR MD lAYOUKIYB BKANN
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Still Maintain! lti Freitlgs and itanda ort-fMlnini smob
the boiti of other brand! ai
CHB BIBX QUALITY BBIAB Pin OVTBRBD BQ
BMOKKBB.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The nnderilgned are prepared to anforae the La* aialnit
all panoni Imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT * GO.,
11l OLARINOI-BIUII
We have Large Shipment! of thla BRAND Of BRIAN
PIPES to hand ana Begnlar ShlpMenti sowing forward
WHOLHSALB ONLY.
KICkHOARD BIGGIES j^e^Q
Regular shipments of the Best Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
MR AAA given away to buyers of a Bottle of Brkadalbanb
tIUjUUU Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferguson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
BOSISTO’S ORIGINAL AND GENUINE
EUCALYPTUS OIL is the best Remedy
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Sprains,
Chilblains, Whooping Cough, Asthma, Croup,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat, &c. Preserves furs from
moths. In the stable it is valuable for broken
knees, cuts, &c., whilst it keeps off the attacks of
flies. Ask for Bosisto’s ‘'Parrot” brand, and
avoid imitations, which can only lead to disap-
pointment. Full directions with each bottle. At
all chemists. Bosisto’s “ Parrot ” brand.


nsos^ECTTrs
OP THE
VICTORIA! PAPER KAJEFAHIIHM COMPMT, Limitid.
TO BE REGISTERED UNDEK. THE COMPANIES’ STATUTE.
Capital, £120,000, in 60,000 Shares of £2 each.
First Issu.e, 35,000 S3o.ares, FasraTole as Follows: —
ss. Per Share on Application, ss. Per Share on Allotment, and the Balance by Instalments of
hot more than ss. Per Share, at intervals of not less than 3 months. It is anticipated that not
more than £1 Per Share will be called up.
NO PROMOTERS OR PREFERENTIAL SHARES
"Will Too Issio-ed..
Provisional Directors :
H. BURROWS Esq.
A. BEAYER, Esq.
R. EASTON, Esq.
A. W. HARSTON, Esq., J.P.
A. M. HENDERSON, Esq., C.E.
Dr. HUTCHINSON.
H. T. LITTLEWOOD, Esq., J.P.
JOSIAH MARKS, Esq.
J. H. METOALEE, Esq.
JAS. MUNUAY, Esq. (Geelong)
ALEX. M'KINLEY, Esq.
G. MOUISON, Esq.
.T. L. BADCLIEEB, Esq.
W. J. BUNTING, Esq., J.P.
W. A. B. TOBIN, Esq.
W. A. S. WILLIAMSON, Esq., J.P.
BANKERS:
The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited.
SOLICITOR:
Edward A. Smart, Baring Chambers, Market Street, Melbourne.
AGENTS :
Bisiker and Co., 3 and 5 Rothschild Chambers, 47 Collins Street West, Melbourne.
BROKERS :
Messrs. Donaldson and Co., Limited, 20 Collins Street West, Melbourne.
THIS Company is formed for the purpose of carrying on the Manufacture of Paper and of
purchasing from the present proprietors the property, plant, stocks and goodwill of the business
of the Barwon Paper Mills, Geelong, and of carrying on and extending the same.
s 7\The position of this Manufactory is excellent, being situated on the banks of the River Barwon,
n,nd close to Geelong. The advantages of pure water and water power, without cost, are here secured ;
the turbine (or water-engine) used for driving the machinery giving at present 200 horse power (which
can be largely increased) without cost of fuel ; and, being practically automatic in its action, effects
an immense saving yearly.
r "lThe Mill-Race, substantially built of solid blue-stone, is nearly three-quarters of a mile in length,
and conveys the water to the Mill from a higher level in the river, giving a fall of 45 feet to the
Turbine.
r ™Tn addition to the Turbine, there is also an Engine capable of working up to 500 horse-power for
use in cases of emergency, or for future extension of works.
Since the establishment of the Barwon Paper Mills the business has yearly increased from 74 tons
of paper, manufactured during the first year, until the present output of more than 1100 tons per
annum has been attained.
For some time past, however, the Mills have been unable to keep pace with the increasing demand,
although working 'the full 24 hours per day. The present output of paper is nearly 100 tons per
month, but by an outlay of about £5OOO for duplicating some portions of the machinery, the produc-
tion could be easily increased to 150 tons per month with the power available.
Paper Making is practically a monopoly, as there is only one other paper mill in the colony.
The Freehold Land upon which the Mill and premises are erected comprises about 24 acres. The
buildings consist of Sorting Room, 87ft. x 31ft.; Willey and Dusting Room, 49ft. x 31ft. ; Rag Boiler
House, 37ft. x 31ftt. ; Beating Engine House of two stories, Machine and Finishing Rooms, each
122 ft. x 34ft.; Steam Engine House, Boiler House and Chemical Store Room. These are all of solid
blue-stone and brick construction, and in excellent repair. There are also Engineers’ Work Shops,
Iron Rag Store, Office and Stabling, and an excellent stone residence for the Manager has been
erected. There is also a terrace of stone cottages rented to employes.
The Machinery comprises all necessary Rag cutters, Dusters, and Willey Revolving Boilers, two
Upright Boilers, two large Hydraulic Presses, four Washing and four Beating Engines, Paper Machine
by Bertram (82 inches wide), Ripping, Winding, and Cutting Machines, Guillotine, Bale Press, three
Steam Boilers, Turbine, large and small Steam Engines, and Pumping Gear, Weighbridge (6 tons),
There are afto two Settling Ponds constructed of blue stone, each 80ft. x 85ft., holding 280,000 gallons
of water; the whole of which is in thorough working order.
The Property and Goodwill, together with all Engines, Machinery, Fittings, and Appliances of
trade, are offered to the Company for the sum of £48,000. Ihe Stocks of Materials, Chemicals, and
Paper (all to be approved), may be taken at stock-taking prices, which do not exceed cost; and the
imports to arrive are to be taken at cost price.
Photographs of the Property, and plans of the Buildings, can be seen at the Offices of the Agents
or of the Brokers, together with samples of various kinds of Paper manufactured at the Mills.
Valuations of the Buildirgs and Machinery have been made by Mr. Percy Oakden (Oakden,
Addison and Kemp) and Messrs. Robinson Bros., Campbell and Sloss, Limited, respectively, and the
total values of the property, including the value of the 24 acres of Land used for Mill purposes, the
Water Race (three quarters of a mile long) and Weir, the Rolling Stock, Water Supply, Sundries and
Goodwill, make up the total amount of £48,000. The various certificates of values can be inspected at
the Agents’ offices.
The following Accountants’ Certificate will show that a profit was made for the past year equal to
more than 11J per cent, on the amount of the purchase-money :
17a and 19a Queen-street, Melbourne, October 2nd, 1888.
We hereby certify that we have examined the books and accounts of the Barwon Paper
Mills, and find that the net profits for the twelve months ending 31st August, 1888, amounted
to £5583 Bs. 3d. Numerous payments, made on account of the Property and Machinery, have
been passed to manufacturing expenses, which, if charged to the correct accounts, would con-
siderably augment the profits for the year. Certified statements of the accounts for the pre-
vious nine years have been produced to us, and these can be inspected at the Agents’ offices.
(Signed) GEO. W. SELBS7, Jon., & CO., Public Accountants.
The allotments of shares will be made by the Directors in accordance with priority of application,
and the Company is now being registered.
This is offered as a safe and profitable investment (outside the range of speculation), and it is
anticipated it will return at least 12 to 15 per cent, on the paid-up Capital.
NOTE. —Application to be addressed to the Directors, Care of the Agents,
Messrs. BISIKER and Company,
3 & 5 Rothschild Chambers, 47 Collins Street West, Melbourne,
Or, Care of the Brokers,
Messrs. DONALDSON & Co., Limited, 20 Collins Street West, Melbourne.


Next Saturday, 27th October, 1888.
On the Ground, at Three o’clock.
‘TARA. ‘TARA / TARA.
The Very Cream of Camberwell. =a =
= Right on Camberwell Railway Station.
Sixty-seven Return Trains Daily!
xxxost G-xgraaa.tic Sale eTrer Ixeld. Ixx tlxe annals of
"tlxe C010x2.37' of "Victoria.
This lovely spot was purchased by Sir John O’Shannassy originally from the Govern-
ment, and will now be subdivided into
BUSINESS AND RESIDENCE SITES.
BURKE, CANTERBURY and OTHER ROADS.
Title - CERTIFICA.TE.
SOLICITORS - FINK, BEST & PHILLIPS.
\. ' /O . . ", ' ' ' ... . , : ’
Terms: <£lo Deposit; Balance 3,6, 12 and 18
months at 6 per cent.
PLANS PROM
G. D. LANGRIDGE & SON
AUCTIONEERS,
-4= Queen Street, Mielbourne.


Hotels.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN, N.S.W.
THIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
Bain Ple rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
M
OUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QUEENS-
LAND.
.Under the distinguished patronage of His Ex-
j«Uen C y gij. a. Musgrave, K.C M.G. Accommo-
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey buildings. Prom
;? e balconies a splendid view can be obtained of
'be celebrated mountain of gold, and within a few
Minutes’ walk of the company’s works. Passenger
mail coaches daily from Rockhampton and
railway-stations. W. MONCKTON, Pro-
prietor, of the firm of Monckton and Co.
MOUNT MORGAN.
Queensland National Hotel,
20 BEDROOMS.
HpHIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitors.
f" er y comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
°bly. Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiser, Proprietress.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURE.
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spencer Street.
ISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
t- - _
I”. 11 hud all modern improvements, such as light,
‘by, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
um, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
fcpl nee< U e baths passenger elevator, electric bells,
bmphone, and all other hotel requisites, not to be
fmpassed in Australia. Visitors can rely upon
rjbig called for early morning trains. Letters
nJJ" telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
Medical.
OR. SPEER’S
DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr)
s Peer
*» -- is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Jb’Vard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
z ®tte, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
g® ars to the study of CHRONIC,, NERVOUS, AND
hJ?9?AL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
all P'tals of the United States, which enables him to treat
- - „—.. ....—i-.~ au
with excellent results. All applying to
So P re °eive his honest opinion of their complaints.
6 ® x Peritnenting; no Mercury used. Hejwill guarantee
£2f)n t ’ ve cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
®i s reason for doing so is this—when (here is no
fil of-b fi‘ Sease > and nothing but an inorganio irouble, or,
a Cerf- r ' vor( * s > a conglomeration of symptoms producing
trioyP? -111 .result, there is no reason why it c3>not here-
tic With the proper remedies, therefore he u .arantees.
to f es ib distinctly understood that he does not claim
beeL- m impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
(L, ‘ aim s only to be a skilled and successful physician
SBjsSjJghly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
IW' AL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
detail at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
Hoj-ji be treated at home. The course of treatment will
tion n a ny way interfere with their business. Examina-
Si>»p, at ’d advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
St t p'7 M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
10 a , ’ Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
u 11 a.m. only.
R
I °.
HARDS.
for ** for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURE
Nervous Diseases ; price, including post-
’ fid- in stamps. Consultation costs nothing,
the Doctor will tell you at once whether your
6 m curable or not. Address—
7, SPRING STREET, SYDNEY,
f&Er PaaaOfHPTIQNB are to
** be found in the “ LIGHT AND
feUj 5 ,’ 1 for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DEj
hj: M-Y and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six: Penny
,s fips. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street Sydney.
Q OLEMAN£ & SONS
JSucalypte Oil
W and
Y ictory Ointment.
’■Uin;
EXTRACT from the Eucalypte Tree.
at ded GOLD MEDAL Adelaide Exhibition,
K. beating all other competitors,
ize Great Centennial Exhibition, Sydney.
afibis*D e use d for Consumption, Asthma, Bron-
d,,bumatlsm. Neuralgia, Bad Legs, Kidney
''Qbt „ av el Complaints, Sprains, Colds, Dysentry,
> etc. Posted to any address.
Manufactory: Cootamundra.
Depot: 227 ELIZABETH STREET"
. Sold by all Chemists.
; J 'r i UJLETIX2
AR, CARTER AND CO.,
Up,. dipping and Forwarding Agents,
Vsi K A - VD STATION AGENTS,
Ct' e Office—227 Queen-street.
Agency— John Bros., 17 Custom House
hMfc 8 ’ Circular Quay.
Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Market Street.
a ud Agencies throughouPQueensland.
uL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Edition, Publishers FITZ-
DROS. Subscription (payable strictly
tlCe )> Six Shillings and Sixpence* per
T 10 * One Pound per annum.
tUhfc j.
V ' Uktin will be on sale every Friday at
George Street, or from the runners in
Easiness Announcements,,
Hats. Hats. Hats.
EXPIRATION OF LEASE.
Stock Must bo Sold !
4a. in the £ Returned on Purchases
Toil ONE MONTH ONLY !
C. F Pnddy & Co.,
438 GEORGE STREET
(nearly opposite Lassetter’s), and
662 George Street, Brickfield Hill.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE R£o.
s
TUDY ECOSOIBfa
KJ and
Hare your Umbrella Pt*xtx&e
ccrrered, and you?
Parasols re-licwi and ms4*«|gi
to Ne», at
J. SULLIVA^
Ml George Street*
Brickfield Hill. betsrtOß
BiTerpool and- Bathurst DIM)
Parasols made to matdt OD»
tumea Repairs neatly exaoMtsJ,
iALAOE FAMILY HOTEL
Corner of
SlJ.lfl.E7 and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE
W tESt-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
OAVIP LYONS Proprietor
Excelsior hotel, charters
towers.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
£60,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable In
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight in
fold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
'ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
'M PORTERS or All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
Ana at ALBERT BTKKKT, BRISBANE,
11
ir+
O *H>M»WC p Q
%
>?
r
msm
OBTAINED A
nui imm mui 111111111, imwMinw
FIRST CLASS AWARD
Ok
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
fc v.;-
i.
Wso
'< ’■
ISTH EBEST IHUiEJNLDRLD M
NONE OTHER BUT I
IT ANO f A CTURED' BYJAM E S CHANNOM
Harbour S t Sy one*
Sold by All Cf'ocersandSrortfc»e|>ws
Easiness Announcements.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
B
LLS
PI
P 7
&
-
©
Are universally ad-
mitted to toe worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costiveness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
Mag Sensa< ions. &c. The first tloao will give relief
in twenty minutes.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humours* and
hiring about all that is required. No female should
b® without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion of irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
will soon restore females of all ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
Far a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore, the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
or health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Pacts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
bKECBLAM’S PILLS have the Largeet Sal # of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
Am a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affeotions, Hoarseness, Shortness of
breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Vf aeosing, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
OOTTGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short ume be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
mas BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
JL Sydney Branchesi
II PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Pald-np Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fond ... 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canaan, «eid can offer special facilities for dealing
In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers ’ Letters of Cred’t.
Drafts issued and Bills oc'looted on most favour-
able terms, at rates which oan be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN Acting Manager.
OIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
aooording to the Laws of Nature and the ■«,
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No MOBH MERCURY OB OTHEB NOXIOCB
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Ch. M., &0.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds., the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
Victorian Progressive Medical Institute.”!
68, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the eoientific and effectual cure of all phasee of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Sorofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Inoapaoity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your oomplaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so : if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is oonfldent of effecting a
cure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yours that the Dr. understands your oase.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Bußterers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N.B.—-1 wish it distinctly understood that Ido not olalm
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I olalm only to be a skilled and successful Phyelolan
thoroughly Informed In my speciality.
Note Address—
?&OQEESSIVE MEDICAL IISTITUTE,
53, Elindhbs Stbkbt W., Melbobbnh.
MT Mo connection xoith any other Medical Institute In
Australia. Box 268, G.P.O.
WANTED, Files of This Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Buixkcih
office.
Business Announcement*
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
f. BalcMn, Johnston & 80,,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, (Tdusi
Robert butcher as co
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine ani
Spirit Business to „ • >
592 a GEORGE STREET '
{Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and ont* M
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
ir REDOES
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should geta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
S. STEPHENSON
HAS OH SALE-
WINK CASKS, BREWERS' CASKS, VAM|
RUM, SHERRY, Ac WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, fcC.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STRESS
Between King and Market Street*.
MoxStSca^SWEsE
tori- atpoßi AfTK
APTCI lIPHB
OvnrigKU*. j
Boyd*9 Beard Elixir did this, ,
I and will do it on either bald
'head or bare face- Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fails, 20,000*
young men already wear full
L OomtHMA,
boards, havinq used ! to 3 pkto. No injury, lastly applied, cortaio
in offset. Packets, Is. Sd. each, 3 for 3s, 85., post paid, sent undo?
sover,Srssfrom observation - I!'ir»mK®®raglsMi9 Sols Agouti
Box ISO, Q.r.0., Sydney, W.S. W.
SWALDKK, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin ftlftblgS
• Si)S PITT STRBBT.
PS
Ifuqßtta ob Hln
JOHN BUCKHAM,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon
Covers (Greased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
Coolers, Whin Buckets all sizes, at lowest prices.
Note the Address.
Oldest established house in the trade.
JOHN- BUCBZHA 3VE,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
“FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL ”
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-street (opposite Royal
Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PE m :V
surpasses aliother*for.tr.. tastim- <>no natural
frag, ante
Thrss Oou M i « •
PARIS,IB7B, CALC I T :
for pre-eminent excel,' ■ , .'misty
ESSENCE 0? W T TE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE I V’ A’ G YLANG
3TEPHANOTI3 1 <u'A* JAX
and other well-known Perfume*.are Sir
equalled loru.nir delightful and lasting odour
Atkinson’s celebrated
EAU DB COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed for its strength and oeliKhtlm
fragrance It is far superior to the numerous
compounds sold under the same name
0/ ail Dtalert, and o' the Manufacturer**
t. & B AfKINSON,
a*, Oi.d Bonn Sra*»T, Bomook *
.Trad* Mark— “Whit,' Rose" on" Golden ,


BEHAN’S
;3Bla,cls: Oils
OR
EMBROCATION,
FOE
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Scars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, ISBB.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK. ITCH and MANGE ;
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF gJOINTS aud ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Bedfern.
Wholesale :
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co,, S. Hoffnung
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 883 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Bbisbane ; E. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAY, Y.S., 33 Pitt Street, Redfern.
PRICE ... 3,% 6d. Per Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
Then is not a country in the ciivli ’ed world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised b i hou-auds ol sufferers. In ail the ordinary
ailments of humanity their benefloient action is as once
recognised. '<*ullest directions are supplied for their use
in every dise se IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured onl . at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. £2T Pur-
chasers si Id look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the add:ess is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they are
epurious.
E». IjA.KKIMT,
IMPOSTER OF
m- W.nsr-Ris, spirits, bbhibs &c., &>o. -®*
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’* Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
£sf The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. 8&T All Brands of Co\onial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arrivL g by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholes* 8 anil Single Bottle Departments, 782 arcl 784 George Street, Sydney.
,tr SEND FOR A PRICE LIST. *ffi»
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' SEFmsiW ROOM and LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. -Hordern & Sons). -.
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
DEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
LLA
J
NEW
FURNITU *3
WAREHOUSE S,
YORK STREET, *YNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALT, AAH BROTHERS.
MASSON BROTHTO
m
U
SY®***' {or I*ll
Have always In 3t»c
to the Trade and vvnu
Boyers lrw>
ironmongery
WINES, BEERS &
AND GKKEBA^pjgJ,
bulk merchant
Agents f° r goS?
JOHN WALKER^
Old Highland W
ro.'S
J. SORIN AND W
Cognao.
J. T. GA
Schnapps and u
■ c<o>"
L MELVIN andS
Edinburgh *
""T* m sS °
WE CAN BS° 0
' w «:£
B
iuge^
(From Paris) (J ,'|
Ladies’ and GaNTt* laAO
flairdressing
As the most central and well-apP O
the city. R \VoB%|t#
WIG-MAKING and HAltt t
French and English Perfumery. * tf**
Private Rooms for Dyeing «*
kot, T h ß _- eth sagp*
(» tow door, fromaßa^gtj,
"William.
STillaTd 7 34t2 G-eorg'e Stxeo't, S^cLxxsS''
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
FANS, EASELS, BRACKETS, PURSES, CARD CASES & JAPANESE CURIO
BALI. PROGRAMMES. CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. ' PRINTING OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
INSPECT THE SWEET
BURG PIAN
AT THB
"Wertlxeixaa.
SEWIMB MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
ysr X C 5 TO X
MELBOURNE ... Head Offioe: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near 3wanstou Street.
n M . New Coffee Palace, Bourke street.
„ 59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
56 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aeschimann’e.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street,
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
Richmond
Windsob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
BTAWELL
EOHUCA
BEECH WORTH ...
HAMILTON
WAERNAMBOOL...
SALE ... ».
MARYBOROUGH...
HIBHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS SR PACKETS THROUIHOUT THE
G-- IF- PICITLES <3c SOSsTS, Carriage
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
City Repositoryi * -8, 7,8, 11 LATROBE STREET WEST,
Metropolitan Hannfoctorys - 32, 34, 38 BRUNSWICK STREET,
PI
el*°
T**°
H*
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY^
n ,TT munu a i A\ Tr PTVij' r-nr.TftißS WTTfT fi-TT A R. ANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THFj p^U
NEW TABLE -TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.-A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED us an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival, it “
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. tar Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingj>om.
NERVOUS DEBILI T T.
A FABB HBDIOAL BOOK.
HERR RASMUSSEN, Taa Oalebrated Danish Herbalist, Soaalallst in Nervous Dlsa«a*»
Will sand (pjjli fraa) to anyone a Free Madloal Book on Sawr-Ocraa roa Naavoas Dial*!** BEt
DiSfli'aaa. It gives special alvloe to all kind o! salerera. Addaeaa— Z .r"3' M j
HEftft RISMJSSEN, Danish] HarballsVl
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARS' SFDNaF, NEW SOtJrHfWA&iTT
»*
ALLAN A. MARSHALL
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Bbabs and Bell I oun W*
Finishers, Plumbers, Gaseittebs, Ship & General Smiths, Art &
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden ®*' , r jf
Verity's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices eV erf^»
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat|Work gos 0 * >
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire xiy« jto#d»
BON A.CCOBB WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Bt«» ,u ° re
