

I
REMEDY !
NERVINE!
XTr
y^ er > Iij f r Acknowledged to be a Wonderful Remedy for Nervous and General Debility, Nervous Prostration, Torpidity of
a >L s a,^x S f on> Palpitation of the Heart, Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude, Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypo-
« 8; £reij + ® ner gy and Appetite, Eemale Complaints, Dizziness, Noises in the Head and Ears, Loss of Vital Power, Alcoholic
?: llr c Decline, Impoverished Blood, Impaired Sight and Memory, Consumption in its early stages, Effects of Youthful
ia? aßd a ll diseased conditions of the system proceeding from Deficiency of Nerve Eorce. A few doses speedily'
a course effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances emphatically testify to the truth of this statement.
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it for themselves a
»0h Drop is Worth a Drop of Gold!
ill)
6 >lor like Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for Eemale Complaints. Every Eemale should have a bottle ready at hand,
re gula.rities, &c., it surpasses all others. As the nervous system is the mainspring of human vigour and healthful regu-
larity, so, where this complicated organism is deranged,
’S TONIC NERVINE!
Sth t h eClSlon and curative effect like the day spring dispersing the shades of Night. The whole organic system which
e e nerves for its streams of electric f-rce is recuperated and renewed with this Great Vitaliser. The muscles rebound
youth, appetite- and bealthtul condition follow, the skin becomes bright and clear, and the winter of disease is
y glorious sun of health. Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support the forcible truth of these
assertions, and one trial renders certainty doubly sure. /
TONIC NERVINE
Is Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 3s. 6d. a Bottle, and is
fljl Authors of The Tonic Bystem, and its Value in Treating Disease.
Ufsi
orgi?-street & 106 Market-street, Sydney,
P
V
% 8t
•IE of Xaao.lta.'tiow.s.
''^ s t up on a ving t; : genuine article supplied, and not allow a dangerous substitute to be foisted upon them for the
sake of th - endor's extra profit. Trade Mark— “ TOMIC HERVIHE.’*
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.
&u!ft*Srxi/K
am a /
toiACtc //
pi
n
flflMfAS
i-raT &S' JD
a£*t ernct* fjcrow wtnam
BftJUUCH. C£ORGS SI Syqney
Waver ley Hotel,
00LLIN8-PLAOE, COLLINS-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
••Bitort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Booms, Billiard Booms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513
MRS. M. 001 ER, Proprietress.
Business Announcements.
CO
TO BA
IXSON*SONS
❖
a
aM<v
Poxf't
SIR ROGER
50
a
IXSONS
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK for
SALK to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE! {(BUYERS
ONLY, mi vt
IRONMONGERY, and ’ "**
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA.
AND
SARTHENWA RE,
WINES, BEERS Alto SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
3, SORIN Mid CO.'S
Cognac.
3. T, GAYEN S
Schnapps and Geneva,
A, MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale,
MOULTONS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured~by
MOULTON’S BRUIT PILLS. We mean cured,
not merely relieved, and we can prove what we say.
There are no failures and no disappointments.
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cures all
BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION
wad DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve
distress from too hearty eating, correct DIS-
ORDERS of the STOMACH, stimulate the
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
Extract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
It is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 3d.
O, E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PIUS
Business Announcements.
J>ATENT DIRECT ACTING
HU PUMPS,
For use in MINES, CHEMICAL WORKS; for
Working SHEEP-SHEARING MACHINES,
ROCK DRILLS, etc., etc.
Over Twenty Thousand (20,000) in ■Use.
Manufactured toy the Weslinghons* Brake
• Company (Limited), London.
Full particulars on application to the Sole Agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
T> M. R I h m ¥
(late of the Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absoonders and wife deserters traced, and ail kinda Ot
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divoroe, libel, fraud, and incendiary caaea, for the legal (pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Bents and debts collected. Fromß. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is In a position to oonduct all inquiries with caution,
expedition and strictest secrecy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his oare
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS ace to
bo found In the LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o, A copy of this
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Fenny
Stomps. Address— .
a WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
Hunter-street, Sydney,
w
a CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(Prom Paris)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen's
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any In
the city,
WIG-MAKING and RAIR WORK,
french and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address —
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
myriLLAR, carter and go.,
'ijjL Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office—-227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
4 lOmilßV SEMES!
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic]
Dolobeux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR, SOUTHAM'S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure in a few days I
The Australian Remedy, No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s» 6d., 55., and 10s.
CUBE FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE'S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured,
Prepared by the Sole Proprietory
H. 1. ROSE, Pharmaoeatical Chemist,
631 Georgenstreet* only,;
Business Announcements.
McLEAN 8R05.,, RIGG A CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
518 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IRONMONGERS
2
5
x
REG?
H
<fc
Sowing HLacTalue, Ista&vrc kttia ttat\ronia*>4
ELECTRO-PRATED WAKK, OOTLKKV, TOOLB,
SAB COOKING STOVES I—LEONIS FLETCHER'S. JEANS ft; WALEBKB,
BRADFORD I S WASHING MACHINES, Ice., ICO,
WILLIAMS’S
AUSTRALIAN TEAS!
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST
B3EAS, TBA-CAKE3, PASTBY.
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBL® j
9
WHKN MADE WITH
I
HI I
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THEQ SKA.
KT BEWARE OF, WORTHLESS IMITATIONS. 1 ill
SOLD IN TINS AT 6d. THE HALF P
mi
ft
tm Scaljp
A POSITIVE CURE
for even form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FBOM
M
Y*
PIMPLES to SCRO
TfMSPIGURmG HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
ili' tions, Itching and Burning Skin Torture*,
iLeathsomc Sore*, and every specie* of Itching,
Ssaljr, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, end Syphl-
BStte Diseases of the Blood, Skin, end Scalp, with
Ecoss of Heir, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Swtiouba Resolvbxt, the new Blood Purifier,
flatemally, and CtmcußA and Curie üba Boar, the
rjiieat Skin Cures and Beautlfiers, externally.
Etching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, washerwoman's Itch,
Sashing Piles, and Delicate Irritation* pecnliai
C* both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
With OtmoußA Soap and a single application of
©smoUBA, the great Skin Cure, This repeated
tolly, with three doses of Outiouba Resolvent,
Oill speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Ossip, when all other means absolutely fall.
i A. Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
With Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re
OOLVBKT. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol
oasmly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
S*r years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public place* by reasot
gf my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
Blsians; have spent hundred* of dollars, and got
Bo relief until I used the Outiouba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
pure as a child’s. Send for our slxty-foar page
nb - " How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.’’
h*ek,
Austbaliae Cohsionbbb,
B. Town* * Co., Hew Sooth Wnios.
Perspiration of allT®P UI ?„ ofS*^
ifilements, and thus removes W» d eC o» -
it cures speedily, permanently' ,
H «si#fe
Sores, and Dandruff, destro;
heal* Ulcers, Sores, -and D
stores the Hair, 1
OnticTira Soap., an exqui* l^^l 2»
and Toilet Requisite, prep** 6o
indispensable in treating
mors, Skin Blemishes, F*fe*W
barn, and Bough, Chapped,
Cuticixra Remedies ® r *
Purifiers and Skin W
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any o A„;!xe.n ie f %i e /
table poison whatsoever. 0* / «
pure by the Analytical ObemW 1
Massachusetts.
For Sale by aU retail
fUuggistg throughout Austrah 8 ’ * p
iSejlaud. Outicuba, 60 cents-P 1 0&U(r-:
|1 .go; COTicuxiA Soai*. 25 1 1
wo Soap, 16 cents; Cvncvß* »
per buttls.
PsayAia® * r
Potter Drag: * Chemical c<f,t
FALLON’S GEORGE HOTE
TIHE above Hotel has unsurpassed accommodation for families and
JL spare no pains to make the comfort of risitors his special study.
iall. Private Sitting Rooms without extra charge. First-class Tables.
promptly attended to.
GOOD STABLING AND LOOSE BOXs»*
~X jTfalloii, P r ° f


The Bulletin
Vol. 9—No. 443.
SATURDAY, JULY 28, 1888.
Price, 6d.
“ Empty is the Cradle,"


NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
starling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the Australians.”
I‘itoPntKTOkS ! BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-sTreet, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum .. ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0 12
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
"Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 wards, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
" The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address ■is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation c transmission
of such MSS.
7Jm? 9Btdleix#i,
SATURDAY, JULY 28, 1888.
Italy and the Scaffold,
Among the news items which reached us
last week was one the significance of w'hich
to Australia cannot be overrated. Sydney
Echo extracted from London Morning Post
a paragraph penned by the Pome correspon-
dent of that paper, stating that capital punish-
ment in Italy had been abolished by a unani-
mous vote of the deputies in Parliament.
The correspondent added that the result had
been hailed with delight by the Italian
Liberal papers. The abolition of punishment
by death will, we are sure, be hailed with de-
light by many papers in other countries as
well. Criminals are much the same every-
where, and that which the Italian Parlia-
ment has now seen well to do, by a unani-
mous vote after a quarter of a century’s
almost uninterrupted deliberation, will be
taken as a sign of the direction in which the
world’s mind is marching, and a proof that
though argument and demonstration may be
resisted for a time victory will yet come to
their side, and ignorance, prejudice, fanati-
cism, and barbarity, be swept away. Twenty-
three years ago Signor Mancini, the eloquent
disciple of the renowned Cesare Beccaria,
unfurled the banner of abolition and put the
question to a Parliamentary vote, but the
upper classes had been in the habit of seeing
life going for life, and the lower classes had
always taken a rude pleasure in drawing blood
for blood, and so the representatives of both
pronounced in favour of the old red way, and
the deputy stood almost alone. To-day
Mancini is without an opponent, Ministers
and deputies surround the standard of Beo
oaria, and United Italy has dismissed her
executioner.
* * *
It is a wonder that Italy did not arrive at
this conclusion sooner. She has had ad-
vantages which Anglo-Saxon countries, and
countries in which, the Anglo-Saxon element
rules, have not. Between the Latin mind
and the Anglo-Saxon there are points of
grave difference. In art, in science, in
philosophy, the former finds values, mainly
directly ; the latter, mainly indirectly. The
Anglo-Saxon mind values its pleasures and
pains for what advantages they will bring,
either by way of money or of power. Some-
times this difference is sought to be ex-
pressed by saying that the Anglo-Saxon
mind is more practical than the Latin. That
expression we would allow to pass without
objection were it not that many who use it
seem to assume that only the practical, as
illustrated in the cases given, is worth taking
into account or working for. We. on the
contrary, maintain that a sense of the beau-
ties of art, the discoveries of science, and the
truths of philosophy is intrinsically valuable,
and retains it 3 value, no matter what the cir-
cumstances may at any time be, and without
any regard as to whether money or power
is, or will be, involved. The Latin mind,
which has this sense considerably developed,
)Qsseists, ili .'ii, f. f the c nsider.dion of mb-
jects involving consequences extending be-
yond the life of a generation, advantages
over the Anglo-Saxon. There is far more
of the element of pure intellect in its
liberations on these subjects, and less of the
disturbance brought about by an effort to
give the conception striking effect or to make
it pay. Hence, when a criminal requires to
be disposed of, the matter comes to the Latin
mind impersonally, and admits of being con-
sidered on general and even abstract
grounds, whereas to the Anglo-Saxon mind
the criminal comes with blood upon him,
and the concrete figure stirs up passion,
hate, and vengeance. Thus, except in cases
where new conditions of life produce, by
their novelty, new conditions of thought and
action, or where some singularly powerful
intellects carry the current of popular
opinion temporarily into fresh channels, the
Anglo-Saxon process of reasoning in pursuit
of the best and most widely beneficial prin-
ciple is liable to be arrested, and deeds,
which are national blunders, are consum-
mated. But Italy has had, in her latter-day
life, a further advantage. There have grown
up in sight of her people examples of
the heroic sacrifice of personal feel-
ings and interests, and there have been
displayed proofs of a magnanimity that
is contagious. In presence of these, the
hate that hounds a criminal down, the ven-
geance which lacerates him, and the mur-
derous instinct which executes him, are sure
to be taken in hand and separated from the
law which should punish him. Italy’s six-
teenth century glowed with the achievements
of Ariosto and'MACHiAVELLi, but her nine-
teenth shone with the valour and heroism
of Cav our, Mazz<ni, and Victor Emmanuel,
and of the kings of to-day hers only, when
law and court, and in a frenzied hour the
people, called for the blood of the intended
assassin, knew how to stretch forth his hand
and save the victim from the scaffold.
* * *
The advantage of racial temperament and
the advantage of personal example have,
however, at least had effect, and that which
was right all along in the court of reason is
now right by the law of the land. We here,
in Australia, any more than the people in
other parts of the British’ possessions, have
not, as a body, the advantage of racial tem-
perament, or the advantage of heroic per-
sonal example, or any example of royal
magnanimity to rely upon when the subject
of capital punishment is made a matter of
debate. Our conditions of life are, it is
true, in a measure new, and to that extent we
should be as sensible as the States in America
of the necessity we are under of weighing
well why it is that we execute criminals,
but the novelty of our national conditions is
deprived of stimulus, suggestiveness, and
vitality, as auxiliaries to reason, by the
burden of old-world traditions, embodied in
persons, which it has been the fate of these
colonies to bear. Those, therefore, who
want Australia to look at life as Italy looks
at it, as France for the most part in prac-
tice looks at it, and as the United States in
great part looks at it, have few national apti-
tudes to second their appeal and fewer
examples of chivalrous, magnanimity to keep
interest alert, but still they have reason,
and that alone, without any auxiliary in-
fluence, will, more slowly, but yet as surely,
place Australia by the side of those
countries that teach by the example of their
own laws that the taking of life is an unlaw-
ful thing.
* * «
For what position does a country which
takes life occupy when it tries a man for
having committed murder ? It has not the
justification which a nation at war with
another nation has In that case the safety
of the commonwealth makes the extreme
measure necessary. But the murder of one
citizen by another, in private feud, does not
impart ruin to the commonwealth, and thus
the supreme power of the commonwealth is
not invoked. But if the commonwealth
without necessity employs this supreme power
does it not by doing so show that the deed
may be committed in other than extreme
circumstances ? If a State which declares
the unnecessary taking away of life to be the
greatest of crimes has a prison, but instead of
punishingthecriminal there, takes him outand
kills him, is it not, unless it has good grounds
to show for its conduct, proving that the
taking away of life is not the superlatively
serious thing which it alleges it to be while
obtaining his conviction ? Grounds are, no
doubt, advanced by the advocates of execu-
tion, but, whether taken together or singly,
they are, we contend, utterly inadequate to
make the position tenable. The State,
instead of imprisoning a man, kills
him, as a few say, to punish him,
as many say, to prevent him from repeating
his crime, but as most say, to inspire terror
in persons similarly disposed. The first
batch of advocates can be easily put aside.
Mere punishment of the criminal is mere
vengeance. Besides, executing a man is not
always the most severe punishment. The
second class of advocates assume that the
man will repeat his crime. But how is the
truth of that assumption to be tested 1 ?
Underlying the assumption is the concession
that if it were demonstrated that a second
similar offence would not be committed the
criminal should not be executed for the first.
Hut how can the demonstration be given, if
for the first offence he be hanged ? Assume, on
the contrary, thathe will notrepeathis offence.
Then those who advocate the hanging of him
to prevent the repetition are murdering him,
not for the offence which he actually com-
mitted, but for one which lie never world
have committed. The third class of advo-
cates are best met with statistics. If capital
punishment terrifies from crime, then, law
and order and social conditions being about
the same, a hanging country will show fewer
capital offences than a country that does not
hang. We shall take ten years of executions
in New South Wales and of convictions in
Michigan, premising only that a number of
persons convicted of capital offences in New
South Wales had their sentences commuted,
and that the figures here given as contrasted
with the convictions in Michigan are thus un-
duly favourable to the former country. Ten
successive years in New South Wales wherethe
argument of terror is in force gives the
executions in the following order :—2, I, 1,
4,2, 3,1, 2,3, and 2. Ten successive years
in Michigan, when capital punishment had
been many years abolished, give the convic-
tions for which death had heretofore been
the penalty thus 4,3, 3,3, 2,3, 1,2, 0,
and 2. It is unnecessary to add words to
the f"rce of these figures. The argument of
the third class of advocates for the execution
of criminals is shown by them to be as weak
as those previously noticed, and the argu-
ments of the three classes taken together to
be a bad refuge for those who lift their
voices for blood.
*
Nor have the arguments which each of
these in turn employs t) strengthen his
main contention better ending. With proper
prisons and proper discipline hanging is
reckless waste, The man who breaks so-
ciety’s laws should be made pay a penalty
that it will profit society to collect, The
common complaint in Australia is that prison
buildings are not large enough for humani-
tarian experiments. But is it reasonable to
complain of prison limitations and go on
executing the men who could be employed in
enlarging the buildings % Equally irrational
is the dread of the intractability of prisoners.
In the first place, we have already the
requisite machinery for restraining homicidal
maniacs. If a criminal set himself to defy
all control he might, fairly enough, be classed
as such a maniac, but whether he was so
classed or not the machinery exists for
restraining and subduing him. In the second
place this dread is largely dissipated by the
evidence which exists showing that prisoners
in confinement are in the natural course of
things more tractable than maniacs. In the
third place the State prison in Belgium
shows, by a record of 24 years, that prisoners
can be effectually restrained 1 , and at the same
time profitably worked. On low material
grounds, then, we would be doing the best
thing with our prisoners by making them
work for the State. On higher grounds ive
would be doing best for the State, by keep-
ing the hands of Government free from the
unnecessary shedding of blood.
* * *
We congratulate Italy on the victory she
has achieved. The fulfilment of the dream
of Cesare Bbccaria, in a Parliament where
no dissenting voice was raised, is a triumph
not only for Italy but for the world. It is
itself argument, persuasion, and, supple-
mented by a little reflection, must be for
many a ground of conviction that Civilisa-
tion will take the same road when States in
general have studied from what sources
capital crimes spring and how close the bond
has often been, not primarily between
capital crimes and capital punishments, but
afterwards between capital punishments and
other capital crimes.
The Comm[?]lantion of Posthumous Wealth.
One of the chief disadvantages of modern civilisa-
tion is the tendency of wealth to accumulate in
the hands of narrow-minded and unscrupulous
individuals, who thus become possessed of a power
and influence that is positively hurtful to the
interests of the community. As Barnum truly
said—the chief difficulty in money-making is
getting together the first ten thousand dollars.
This stage arrived at, money gathers to itself more
money, even if supplemented by little exertion on
the part of its owner. Taking into consideration
this tendency to accumulate, and the already large
sums at the credit of such men as the Duke of
Westminsteb, Jay Gould and others, when
one attempts to calculate what yast amounts
their heirs, no matter how extravagant, will
possess, the injustice, the criminality of such
a heaping-up becomes evident. Moreover, when
it is understood that all such monstrous accumu-
lations represent the exertions of numberless
toilers, who must therefore have been underpaid
for these exertions, and that the plutocrat whose
income may be estimated by thousands daily, is
the oppressor, directly and indirectly, of millions
of people, it is evident that some means must be
taken ere long to prevent such unnatural, un-
healthy financial growths. The rich man is not
only the modern Captain Kidd, but the latter-
day Simon Legkee. The votes, the happiness,
the lives of the greater part of the community are
in his breeches-pocket with the keys of his strong
room .The workers are compelled to live in his houses
at rents fixed by his cupidity, to buy the necessaries
of life at stores where the prices are heightened
by the'enormous rent he extorts, and driven by
stress of circumstances to labour for him at wages
which barely suffice to keep the fires of life
smouldering. Assuredly the white slave is in-
finitely worse off than ever his black-skinned
brother is reported to have been. The employer’s
concern in the doings of the white slave cease 3 at
the shop-door, while the interest of the master in
the black as valuable property followed him, fed
and housed him comfortably, cared for him in
health, nursed him in sickness, and finally buried him
after death. Now-a-days, black slavery has been
almost abolished, and it is considered necessary
for the abolishment of white slavery that vast
aggregations of wealth should be rendered im-
possible.
• » •
According to Mulhall, there are in Great
Britain with her population of 36,000,000, only
5000 fortunes of value exceeding £5OOO ! and only
36,438 exceeding £lOOO, and this in spite of the
fact that during the last 37 years the moneyed
cl a ses have grown four tin's faster than the
population. The Tory statistician draws comfort
from the fact that a small percentage of the popu-
lation have thus been placed above the reach of
want, but what the percentage may be that this up-
heaval has submerged in the bitter waters of starva-
tion he omits to state. From the fact that 250,000
persons earn over £2OO per annum in the “ land
of the free,” it is estimated that the affluent
and middle classes have increased 270 per
cent, since 1880, or twice as fast as the
aggregate earnings. Still is the figure-monger
silent as to the poverty-stricken souls that curse
the land he vaunts so loudly. How many grown
men does Britain hold that earn, on an average,
less than ten shillings weekly. How many that
earn less than five shillings, than half-a-crown ?
How many are there without any opportunity of
earning, who live by pilfering, by devouring what
the well-to-do throw away as unfit for food, and
by other shameful means ? Is it not a fact that
these lauded hoardings of the affluent are ab-
stracted from the earnings of the indigent, and
that the further the one clambers from out the
slough of despond the deeper is the other plunged
downwards by the increasing weight of his bur-
den ? In direct proportion to the rate at which
the hoards of the Mammonites increase is the
wage-slave driven towards the line where
poverty merges into utter starvation. To end
this downhill march towards degradation and
misery is the desire of every promulgator of
advanced ideas. No scheme single-handed can
achieve success 5 that all combined can be success*
ful while the transmission of wealth from the
dead to the living goes on may be doubted.
* * *
The communisation or nationalisation of pos-
thumous wealth has as yet never been brought
prominently before the British-speaking public.
Here and there some political economist alludes
to it in a dreamy way, but as far as can be
discovered the matter has never been thoroughly
threshed out. It has already been stated that the
handing over of wealth from owner to heir, and
the consequent tendency to build up colossal for-
tunes is dangerous to the liberty and happiness of
the community. This being admitted, any scheme
calculated to prevent such iniquitous aggregation
is worthy of consideration. Now, if on the death
of any individual, male or female, rich or poor,
the State stepped forward and annexed the
property in trust for the community, a mighty
stride towards this desirable end would be taken.
It might beargued that it would be unjust to the
wife and children who assisted in building up a
fortune to snatch it from them on the death of the
head of the house. On the contrary, it would
give them justice. If the members of a house-
hold assist in the creation of wealth, they
are clearly as much entitled to immediate
payment as an alien agent. Many an old Hunks
pets all the gratuitous work possible out of his re-
lations on the strength of posthumous bequests,
and then cheats them by bequeathing his fortune
to some greedy monarch or ornamental charity,
trusting thereby to achieve immortality. Should
this measure ever be adopted all the pro-
perty—land, money, houses, and implements—-
will in time fall into the hands of the State as
trustees for the people. Then by the equitable
distribution of all earnings it will be possible in
future to prevent similar private accumulations.
Of course the chief difficulty would be to preclude
the fraudulent disposition of property ere life,
departed. This might be hindered by the
taking of a yearly census of all property, and
thus any discrepancy between the returns of in-
dividuals would become apparent, and would re-
quire to be accounted for. It is easy to estimate
the values that would thus fall yearly into the
hands of the authorities of Great Britain. The
records show that 161 millions—excluding estates
under £loo—pass through the Probate Court an-
nually subject to legacy, or succession duties. The
public fortune is estimated at 8200 millions, thus
within 50 years, at the same ratio, the whole
would fall into the hands of the State.
* * *
To recapitulate. All wealth not wholly created
by the individual exertions of its holder is unjustly
retained, and its posthumous conveyance from him
to those who have done still less towards its
amassment deprives its true originators, direct
and indirect, of that power which is absolutely
indispensable to the happiness of mankind.
Therefore, any means that may be selected for the
purpose of ending this injustice, and preventing
its perpetuation is worthy of earnest consideration,
which is all that can be claimed for any new
doctrine. Whether the communisation of pos-
thumous wealth is practicable, or not, further in-
vestigation may clearly show.
The N.S.W. Show at Melbourne Exhibition.
Evidently the New South Wales Chamber of
Manufactures knew their own business best when
they wisely decided not to exhibit at the coming
Melbourne Exhibition. There seems no reason
to accuse them of pique or prejudice in the matter.
They simply felt that their manufactures would
be dwarfed into such miserable nothingness along-
side of their Victorian competitors that disap-
pointment could be the only result. At least,
that would read as the visible verdict
of the Foreign-trade emissaries whp have been
down to spy out the nakedness of the land. The
would-be grandiloquent accounts of what the New
South Wales Court would be, published by the
Sydney daily Press;-have only succeeded in show-
ing what will not be under any possible cir-
cumstances. The accounts up to the present time
have been the dismalest of croakings, so far as the
Freetrade colony’s manufacturing exhibits, pure
and simple, are concerned. Literally they will be
nil. Of course the public are treated to the well-
worn excuse about the extreme youth of New
South Wales, but then Victoria is younger still,
and she supplies the mother colony ; while Queens-
land, New Zealand, and other colonies are
also in their infancy compared to the pre-
maturely-old parent of the Australias. And
if any contrast between the general ex-
exhibits from America would be unfair when
the difference of the two countries in age, size,
and extent is considered, at least one state, Cali-
fornia, may be used for purposes of comparison. If
New South Wales is a “young country,” surely Cali-
fornia is infinitely more youthful. Forty years ago
it was only a wilderness of sand-hills, and for years
the miners’ shanties were its only mansions. Yet,
with the same climate as New South Wales, the
products of this State equal in beauty of get-up and
variety anything in the world. But then Cali-
fornia, like Victoria, has been reared under a Pro-
tective policy, while New South Wales has
tottered along under the barren regime, of the
Foreign-Traders of Sydney, and their warehouses,
crammed with foreign products, are consequently
almost the only visible evidences of progress in
the stunted and impoverished mother-colony of
Australia.
All through these descriptive articles referred
to, the skeleton in the cupboard sticks out a yard.
Furniture, we are told, will be a poor show from
New South Wa\33. What else could if b ■ wit


leaP mart 3 all over the country stuffed with Ger-
in P and English free consignments? But we
all have baskets; real baskets, made (by Chin
an or blind men ?) out of real New South Wales
Lersia fact dwelt on as hugely important
ie glass and pottery exhibits are also
men and scarce, and, presumably from the
causes ; the New South Wales display of
achinery, locally manufactured, is very scanty,
af asapleasantksetto news oj this kind
is refreshing to learn that, while JN.e.w. coiua
hibit locally-made woollen goods, the manufac-
S are so brimming over with orders that they
n Ware a loom ! If this isn’t a big feather m
e cap of foreign trade, what is ? The people of
/dnev have been labouring for years under the
ipression that the leading woollen mill owner,
things just barely going, and
erely strugfled on in the hope that sooner or
ter a Ministry composed of something sensible
ad solvent would wake to the absolute necessity
= puttin-themon their legs with a Protective
obey ft must be a novel experience for these
uni-insolvent manufacturers to be so busy that
mv can’t show their poor Melbourne neighbours
tnck or two ! The list of equipages is further
escribed as disappointing-a mild term, we ven-
“BtodfraVo„t\X-“wrrtuit
in existence,
" will” nd its w»y to'benighted V.c-
in i Prnbablv it will travel in the near
eighbourhood of the one “ book-case ” from
trmidale ! Wheat and maize-well, nature
armiuaie . ~ ]> u t the flour does not
.“w n in the fields, and the exhibits in this depart
nent will come from the mills of the two lately
Melbourne millers who came to show the
P p ni,„ elder colony how to grind their own
a nd presently concluded that it would be
'heaper to import the protected wheat of Victoria
shanto use that which grew at their very doors. The
Sena industry, .it is S W
ifSS to‘p,e»d“-fhnnks only to
tariff that helps to keep it alive in a
so-called Ereetrade colony. Barley, however, is
not protected, and, consequently, malt w not.
New South Wales manufacture, though yctoria,
thanks to its import duty, does a large trade in
bhis article.
• * *
These are only a very few items taken at ran-
wholly conSucted-not merely tinkered with
—in Y New South Wales promises to be
wretched in the extreme. The courts may
be pretty and attractive enough so far
adorned P c r an luaTe'them,'but therfis no present
indications -efing m the .Jew
protected j- colony w m make other-
S show. The actual Ereetrade
industries are as utterly unreqnesenWl if there
sasrahSiZ! ssaii
single evidence of their existence, and the tone of
the Sydney daily press is wad
nrnmieritv which has vanished at t y
SSnie W N?W Smith‘w.fL“Kb” estimated
print can alter the inevitable verdict.
Walls and Fences.
breves are being d Xo ods man who owns a
£ d J?=.iSS£ £ xt
attl r tU the S g°rasi a now regards it as the correct thing
over the grass, now b a stupendous wall or
60 enclose his premi 8 t d L m not cast a
fence so that the ' worlking ne hi / belongingH .
common, unintelligent y P igbt } y encum-
and the constructors of these without
brances go on building r Tokkens >
the faintest gleam of an idea, th ™ s i mp i e of
title does not
everything Melbourne , Sydney,
patch of soil. Bri b wherever there exists a
Adelaide, and Br b > little vista of green
glimpse of X„ beyond-a single reflection
tt&Ftyssr fc •ssar'a
sSLTZZ
tently building within of garish colours,
Zr“Ulin “o 6 °is fn . desert of
S. 3SS £S
obstructioM i? th y, g Qwn pro perty, and
what he Pieces sta nd on the ground
fa vThe has bought and which his class has
which he has u b perpetrating no wrong
sto en he holds that ne is i he did not buy
on the community hills an d the sea, but
the sole right to lo prevent any one but
his position f from his particular
'”F< fi sii o e”wk h
—‘ tde i JSK“S
grows narrower l r in the airless streets
up closer and still closer in amid the
W u he ;wf"Theevd is yet in its infancy in the
shadows, Australian cities, but it is
SSSa? Sowing, and it is an evil wh.oh rs prac-
tically without end.
* * *
T IV.O v nowadays, a man has attached to
In the city, n ‘ A, of groun d, say an acre
hl %wo nS acres in extent. Across the road is a
£?J-S£5=:S.S
ISBisHEasH
fortune of one man who neither toils nor spins.
The owner of the big house is annoyed by the fact
that the terrace aforesaid commands a view of
his grounds, or it may be that the terrace having
its back to him, he objects to being compelled to
gaze upon tbe un<e3thetic yards of his neighbours.
So he puts up on his boundary line a colossal brick
wall, or mayhap, a row of masts 30 or 10 feet
high with laths nailed across them, the whole form-
ing a barrier which shuts out not only the mansion
itself but the sea-view beyond, and the sea-breeze
which alone makes life endurable m the breath-
less days of an Australian summer. Then the
confined street becomes a cage, and the morning
sun struggles feebly to reach the confined rooms
that are darkened to gratify the selfish exclusive-
ness of one'man built of common clay. ihe
rational remedy for the rich mans grievance
would be to make the terrace an object which
could no longer-off end the eye, but the interests
of the landlord who owns the ground, and the
builder who runs up lath-and-plaster structures at
a low figure, both prohibit any interference in this
direction, ifio the offensively common stiucture
is built out of sight, and things go on m peace.
O •
The German law prescribes a minimum area to
be used for building purposes, and commands that
only two-thirds of this, at the outside, shall be built
upon. It also takes cognisance of the details of
construction, and uses every possible precaution
to ensure comfort and cleanliness. In Australia,
however, such regulations are almost unknown.
The space allotted to each building is the smallest
that can be used with a reasonable chance of
making the dwelling ten an table, and as land grows
in value and the poor are forced to abandon their
old superstitious prejudices regarding personal
comfort, the space grows steadily smaller. A
certain sacrifice is made to appearances as tar as
the front of the structure is concerned, and the
back is a hideous jumble of sheds, hastily run up
with old, decayed timber; lop-sided outhouses,
defective drains, superannuated fences, and bad
smells of every description. This species of
econony renders landlordism profitable; and the
owner of the shaky terrace, if he chances to live
close at hand, merely takes the precaution to
fence himself in so that his own offensive handi-
work may not obtrude itself too conspicuously
upon his eye, and lets things drift. Almost
everything, in fact, is allowed to drift in Aus-
tralia, and while politicians struggle with im-
ported English and Irish feuds regarding the
special way in which each is to lose his own paltry
little soul, the dwellings of the poor grow meaner
and dirtier, and the veneer which covers their un-
wholesomeness becomes thinner, till the ugliness
within stares through it like a skeleton grinning
derisively out of an open grave.
* *
Nothing short of political revolution seems
likely to depose wealth from its position as the
governing power in Australia. At present riches
are omnipotent, and unless the plutocracy mo >es
in the direction of building reform, any such re-
form remains very far off. But so long as the
capitalist is allowed to shut out, and by shutting
out to aggravate, the misery of the poor, it is idle
to expect that he will attempt to alter the system
which he finds so profitable. Yet some day,
possibly, when the process of usurpation has
gone a little further, the masses may begin
to ask by what right the plutocrats of
fashionable marine suburbs should shut them out
from even a distant view of everything that is
beautiful, and may realise that even the claim of
every man to do as he pleases with his own is sub-
ject to certain limitations. The man who builds
out the view of the ocean will then be called up or
to show his title to the blue waters, and his walls
and hoardings will be dragged down on the ground
that the sunlight and the sea are common pro-
perty, and not to be monopolised by the miserable
exclusiveness of any selfish parvenu. Or the right
of property may receive practical demonstration by
the action of some enterprising democrat who may
erect a staring factory of lurid brick on I otts Point
in order to show that the doctrine of individual
freedom may be made as disagreeable for the
capitalist as for the toiler. The theory is a two-
edged one, and cuts both ways. A few years ago
the semi-lunatic scion of a noble house took ex-
pensive lodgings for himself and a pack of hounds
in a Parisian suburb, and his favourite amuse-
ment was to sit on the table in his private draw-
ing-room on the ground floor blowing a horn and
exciting his dogs to loud-mouthed frenzy. Above
him in a cheap apartment lived another lodger a
humble journalist, whose remonstrances were in-
variably met with a haughty intimation that so
long as the doggy nobleman paid his rent re-
gularly he was free to use his apartments
for any purpose which pleased him. But one day,
when the uproar among the hounds was at its
loudest, a dozen streams of water began to soak
through the ceiling, ruining tire expensive cor-
nices, the pictures, and the bnc a-brac, wrecking
the double grand piano and the _ carpets, and
making general havoc. In a hurricane of rage
the peer rushed upstairs and burst into the room
overhead. A three-foot water-tight barricade had
been erected just inside the door, and over this he
fell into 30 inches of water. The journalist sat
on the table with a fishing-line and a can of bait,
and was placidly waiting for a bite. \V hat is
this you’re doing, sir ? ” was the query of the dis-
organised man from below. “1 m fishing, was
the placid reply ; “ according to the rights of pro-
perty every man is entitled to do as he pleases
with his own.” The logic was irresistible, and
some day the people of the Australian cities mai
learn how to put the grand old theory to general
application.
• * *
It will be well for all if the question is raised
speedily. Already, in the new land of Australia,
narrow, foetid slums are gathering on the fringes
of the suburbs where the wealthy congregate, and
the inhabitants of these dens will soon begin to
ask why they should be penned in like cattle to
make room for the acres of lawn and garde n-
grounds that surround the mansions of those who
live upon their industry. The tall palisades by
which the mansions are surrounded are but slender
barriers, but how weak they are their owners will
never realise until they provoke the masses to a
general awakening. It is in the fever-dens of the
poor that great movements begin, and the
thoughts that are gradually taking shape in the
slums of great cities seldom fail to make them-
selves felt in the end. Australia, though only a
century old, already possesses, in miniature, all
the social ills of Europe, and the god of ‘ Pro-
putty ” overshadows her national existence. Ihe
stone mansions of the rich and the dusty, un-
kempt terraces of the poor are equally the symbol
of the country’s degradation, and as the rich and
the poor drift further and further apart the day
of general upheaval keeps on coming nearer.
The leading Chinese of Australia are said
to have received a proclamation from headquarters
commanding all good Mongolians in these parts
to wind up their businesses and return to. China
within three years. This, if true, will give the
poultry-farming industry a great impetus in Aus-
tralia.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Rebellious Puppets.
Ienselessneas of Australia’s slavish adherence
a;lish institutions was never more clearly ex-
iled than in the proceedings of the INew
Wales Upper House during the last few
These representatives of every manner of
Doly —chosen not unfrequently for then
/■-lending capacity—have, in the most con-
iiious manner, thrown aside measures passed
careful consideration by the Legislative
ibly. We are often told, that the chief
on of the Legislative Council is to prevent
legislation—-to negative or tone down bills
id to them in moments of panic by the
s’s representatives. But now the process is
sed. We find them hurriedly dismissing
ires sent up after lengthy deliberation, and
hose introduction a majority of the members
pledged at the hustings. The nominee
r House cannot determinately resist the
ar will, but it can retard necessary legisla-
or years, as the records of the British House
ers and our corresponding institutions testify,
the Council an elective body the case would
e much bettered. The members would be
tably chosen for their wealth or position, and
’or any merit they possessed, and would
•ally, as they do now, strenuously resist en-
hments on that wealth, or infringements on
dignity ” of that position. For this block-
if progress, these men are not so much
je blamed as the system that pro-
them with the opportunity. iNothing
be more out of place in a Democratic
aunity where manhood suffrage is supposed
evail than the bicameral mode of government,
people cannot have two minds on any one
er. Should both houses agree on every point,
the second Chamber is clearly unnecessary ;
ey disagree on any point, it is unmistakably
;erous to liberty and good government. io
r the character and constitution of the Council,
lias but to refer to the utterances of Parkks,
declared in 1880 that the Minister of the day
the right and power to make such appomt-
ts to the Council as would ensure a working
irity there. Therefore an Opposition Minister
wing would be compelled to swamp the
ncil with his nominees to counteract the
tions of his predecessor—and so on. The whole
g is a farce; the Legislative Council is an
mblage of puppets. Their lax attendance
vs that they possess a good idea as to their utter
essness and irresponsibility. Now that they
e once more placed themselves in opposition to
public will, let them beware lest the popular
nour, as in the Chinese Question, arouses the
rnarckian spirit of Parkks, whose creatures
ly of them are, and whose breath can unmake
rn, as his breath has made.
A <t««stion of Figures.
the S.A. Parliament, last week, Mr. Hussey
ved (1) that South Australia could get along
ihout a governor ; (2) that if the Imperial Go-
•nment wanted to send out an ornamental
ltleman who knew nothing about the country,
> Imperial Government should pay him ; and
that, until matters could be fixed on a sane
sis, the colony should reduce the Governors
ew to £2500 per annum. . Then much discussion
sued, in the course of which —
' The Premier asked that the motion should be with-
twn. He pointed out that by paying her .Governor
)00 yearly South Australia had been elevated into the
sition of a first-class colony, and it was also very neces-
y in the time of a political crisis to have a highly-in-
ligent gentleman at the head of affairs. The debate
s adjourned for a month.”
yen or eight things become apparent here. If
iuth Australia is a first-class colony because it
,ys its Governor £5000 yearly, it follows that
ew South Wales, which pays £7000, and Vic-
ria, which pays £10,000, must have been moved
> so high that there is no class to put them in,
id if one of them were to raise the alms of its
aperial pauper to £20,000 it would be elevated
ur times higher than the first-class, and
ould go right up out of sight.. Next it
>pears that the higher a man is paid the
ore intelligent he is, and South Australia keeps
) the Governor’s screw because the country
ants intelligence. Working out this problem a
;tle further it becomes evident that Queen v ic-
)RIA must be a born fool in comparison with
iltan Abdul - Hamid because she receives
ily one-third of his screw, though her
may bo alleviated to som.6 extent by
■r past accumulations ; and it also fol-
iws that Abdul Aziz knew 80 times as
inch as Abraham Lincoln, and 160 times as
inch as Mr. (Gladstone does when he is in office.
Vhen Gladstone is in Opposition, of course, he
nows less still. These things are bad enough,
ut worse remains behind. A few more figures
dll show conclusively that the valued Governor
f South Australia isn’t worth making such a row
bout, for he mast—judged on the same financial
, as is—be about 20 times more foolish than the
x-king of Bavaria, and he, as everybody knows,
3 a raving idiot who goes about on all fours,
’’his rough estimate proves his Excellency to be a
ittle higher than Columbus in his best days and
, little lower than a crab or a sardine which never
,nce, in all its life, knew enough to come in out of
.he wet; and he ranks about halfway between the
acred white elephant of Siam and Diogenes in
lis tub. The elephant costs more than he does,
io according to the argument of the South Austra-
ian Premier it must know more—and just here an
dea strikes us. Let us import the elephant as a
Governor. A corpse preserved with spices has
aeen a Sultan before now, and for several weeks it
filed the position so well that no one knew it was
lead; a horse has been a Consul, and cats and
snakes and onions have served as gods. They all
mswered their purpose to perfection, and where a
iat can be a god an elephant can certainly do
credit to the position of a Governor.
+
A Prisoner’s Responsibility.
A few weeks ago Jonathan Roberts, a man of
no particular account, who was working out a
sentence of five years’ imprisonment for horse-
stealing at Timaru (N.Z.), found that some one
had left the door of the gaol open, and, naturally
enough, he walked out. He travelled some
distance and remained away a considerable time,
and when at last he was discovered he had
obtained employment on a farm, and was doing
his best to earn an honest living. This, it might
be supposed, would have served as an argument in
his favour, 'but the wooden-headed minions
of the law thought otherwise, and Roberts
was sentenced to twelve months’ additional
imprisonment for trying to reform sooner
than his sentence permitted. The reason why
Roberts was caught at all was that he had
not the means to pay his passage to some other
land, and that he did not care to raise the neces-
sary funds Py robbery and violence—in fact, he
seems to have sacrificed his new-found liberby in a
misguided desire to lead a respectable existence,
and the legal authorities promptly decided that
this unwonted anxiety to do better was a thing
which must be squashed with all possible force.
At least this is the only feasible interpretation of
their conduct, and if .Jonathan Roberts did not
get his additional 12 months imprisonment for
being found working quietly on a farm it is diffi-
cult to say what he did get it for. He didn’t
break anything or anybody in leaving the prison-
some fooi who hasn’t received 12 months or any
other term of imprisonment left a door open,
and he simply accepted the mute invitation
and stepped outside. There is no law which
lays down the axiom that a man shall stay in
prison of his own accord; the sentence passed on
a criminal states that he shall be kept in prison,
and when doors are not even closed he is cer-
tainly not “kept” according to any sane inter-
pretation of the word. The question at issue was
whether it was the duty of the prisoner to stop in
gaol, or of the prison officials to keep him there,
and the Court decided that the right-minded
criminal shall be anxious to remain in his cell, and
if he doesn’t hunger after confinement he must get
some more of it to teach him to appreciate
its beauties. In other words, the New Zea-
land luminary who turned his distorted moral
eye on Roberts’ case holds that it is the
duty of the prisoner to imprison himself when
so ordered by the court; and when this view is
fully adopted the probabilities are that the mur-
derer will be required to hang himself and the
garotter to flog himself, and something will be
done to each of them if he refuses to carry out his
sentence. The entire law under which prisoners
are punished for escaping from gaol is lunacy of
the first magnitude. The man who. escapes by
damaging his gaoler or his gaol may be dealt with
for assault or damage to property m the ordinary
way, but the decision by which a man’s sentence
is increased because he went through an open door
is equivalent to an attempt to make him respon-
sible for his own safe-keeping, and the prisoner
who is to imprison himself might as reasonably
try himself and conduct the case for his own pro-
secution, Jonathan Roberts now stands out as
a warning to sinners who want to reform their
ways. His fate will teach other men in like
positions that attempted respectability pays no
dividends, and that the love of liberty, once re-
garded as the noblest of human impulses, is a
thing which calls for another year in gaol.
4.
A. Scries of Disasters.
During the past week or two the existence of the
Parkes Ministry in New South Wales has been
an endless fall. The Property Tax Bill was duly
rushed through the Assembly by the aid of a
majority which was, and still remains, innocent
alike of arithmetic and grammar, but one or two
financial gentlemen dropped into figures over it,
and demonstrated that it was so framed as to
leave nine-tenths of the property in the colony
untaxed and to annex all, or more than all, the
profits accruing from the other tenth, and the
Council, acting on these calculations, carefully
filed it away at the back of the stove. The boasted
Land Bill was practically withdrawn, partly be-
cause of the absence of Mr. Garrett, who was
supposed to know next-to nothing about it, while
his colleagues knew nothing at all; and partly
because it was evident that, even supposing the
measure should become law, there was no intelli-
gence under heaven which would be capable of ad-
ministering its hideous complexity of interminable
contradictions. The Land Tax Bill the first
measure wearing any faint semblance of a pro-
gressive character which the Parkes Cabinet had
initiated —was transmitted to the petrified mega
theriums of the Council only three days before the
close of the session with a request that it should
be rushed through at once, and the stationary
fossils of the Upper House, as a matter of course,
availed themselves of the opportunity, and, briefly
replying that they had not sufficient time left
for the consideration of so important a measure,
dropped it languidly into the dust-heap.
The railway proposals of the (Government were
hurriedly smothered, the Ministry having re-
membered at the last moment that proposals
for new railways had now, by their own Act,
to be dealt with by a board, which circum-
stance had been so utterly forgotten that no
board had even been appointed. The esti-
mates were blocked by the mysterious evamsh-
ment of Uncle Abigail, who was understood to be
away singing comic songs at an Orange lodge in
the distant back-blocks, and Parkes, in his
misery, was forced to throw oil upon the waters
by denouncing his own three-ball colleague for his
folly in abandoning the business of the country
that he might go away and hoot over the memory
of an asthmatic Dutchman who died 200 years
ago. Then Treasurer Burns, w;ho had indulged
in airy flights of fancy concerning an approach-
ing surplus, was ignominiously bowled out in
an attempt to charge £200,000 of the ordi-
nary expenditure of the year to the loan
estimates, and his promised surplus dis-
appeared almost before his eloquence had time
to dry. Further, the Government were hampered
by awkward and inconsiderate questions about the
method in which the accounts for 1887 were
garbled in order to conceal a huge deficiency, and
were jeered about the clumsiness of the financial
conjurer who had been so miserably found out, and
a dozen other troubles of greater or less dimen-
sions, from the break-down of the Bankruptcy Act
to the obvious failure of the scheme for transpos-
ing New South Wales into Australia, were com-
mented on with more or less ferocity. But the
hide of a Foreign-trade Ministry is thick and its
Billingsgate is strong. The Parkes Cabinet has
so far struggled through its difficulties, and con-
tinues to draw its salary with its accustomed
regularity; and when Parliament disperses the
members of that ill-starred combination will
stump the country as before and deliver long and
violent addresses to explain how many beans
make five, and how the same quantity of beans
would only make four in a country which was
blighted by Protection and all the evils which
follow in its train.
♦
A member of the Sydney D.T. staff has been
visiting Victoria and reporting on the hopeless
ruin of that protected land over which Pulsforu
wails with such a bitter lamentation. Among his
other observations he says
Everything in Melbourne is “booming.” Land specu-
lation has developed into a mania; great buildings are
goin<'- up all over the city ; long lines of cottages and
terraces are being run up all over the Suburbs ; all classes
of workmen are busily employed at full rates of wages,
and the demand is only kept supplied by the large
numbers Hocking into the city from all the other colonies.
After this the should give up all its alleged
fiscal principles, or else it should wire to that re-
porter to lie down and die before he writes any
more. A few months ago, when the D.T. was
clinging with desperate tenacity to the moth-
eaten coat-tail of Parkes it vigorously backed up
that unreliable old man in his assertion that the
New South Wales unemployed were bowled-out
Victorians almost to a man, and now . T lie
fall tfiat has ensued is pitiable to contemplate.


History of Botany Bay.
Two months after the arrival of Governor
Fitzroy the Anti-transportation Question was
revived. A despatch on the subject had
been received from Mr. Gladstone, then
Secretary for State, and Mr. Wentworth
moved for and obtained a Select Committee
of the Legislative Council to inquire into
and report upon the renewal of transporta-
tion. The inquiries of a committee framed
in this way could only tend to one result, of
course, and no one was surprised to find,
when the report of the committee was
brought up, that its finding was strongly in
favour of the continuance of the practice.
Mr. Macarthur, following the traditions lie
had inherited from his father, distinguished
himself by his earnest advocacy of the
transportation and convict systems. But the
public opinion of the country had already
been formed on this subject. Large popular
meetings were held to protest against the
finding of the committee. At the first of
these, held in the" City Theatre, Mr. Charles
Cowper presided, and moved a resolution
expressing the sense of regret and alarm felt
at the proposal- to renew transportation after
it had practically been in abeyance for six or
seven years 9 The Rev. Joliu M‘Encroe, who
was soon to become a prominent leader in this
and the constitutional agitation, also ad-
dressed the meeting, and a petition was
THE BEGINNING OF THE END.
adopted to which 2000 signatures were ap-
pended. On the last day of the session,
October 22, 1846, this document was. pre-
sented to the House, and no stronger com-
mentary is required on tire unrepresentative
character of that Chamber than the fact that
the motion for its being printed was sum-
marily rejected by the nominee and elected
members.
* *
This action of the House, and its proroga-
tion just after, was an affront to the public
meeting which had drawn up the petition
that could not be allowed to pass over in
silence. The Report of the House favour-
ing transportation was in readiness to be
sent to England, and it was important that
the document should not be allowed to tell
its story unquestioned. An anti-transporta-
tion committee was therefore formed, and a
memorial to the Governor drawn up asking
that officer to send an official copy of the
petition to England with the Report, and to
interest himself in the agitation on the side
of the expressed will of the people. Sir
Charles Fitzroy promised to forward the
petition, but declined to interfere or to use
any influence in the matter. The partial
success of this move encouraged the oppo-
nents of transportation to organise meetings
throughout the colony, and elicit expressions
of opinion on the subject from all large
centres of population. These began to come
in day by day, declaring unanimously against
the-perpetuation of the convict-system. With
this movement the anti-transportation agita-
tion in its second phase may be said to have
been fairly launched.
• • *
Another great popular demonstration took
place in the Victoria Theatre on February
13, 1849, at which the Secretary of State’s
despatch was again considered and con-
demned. Charles Cowper, Robert Lowe
(now Lord Sherbrooke), and Dean M'Encroe
delivered strong speeches on the subject,
and a petition was adopted stating on the
part of the colonials that ‘ ‘ they felt bound
humbly hut firmly to represent to her
Majesty that it was their duty and their
determination, by every legal, and consti-
tutional means, to oppose the revival of
transportation in any shape.” A similar
meeting was held in Melbourne on the same
day, and the provincial towns followed the
example thus set. Another popular meeting
took place next month, March 9, at the
Victoria Theatre, the Mayor presiding, and
the same speakers addressed the people.
This increased activity was caused by the
receipt of news that a ship laden with con-
victs for Australia had been detained in port
owing to the accident of cholera having
broken out on board. The circumstance
still more strongly excited the popular mind.
# * #
On June 8, 1849, the last of the convict-
ships arrived in Sydney Harbour. The
Hashemy, a vessel of 936 tons, commanded
by Captain Ross, passed through the Heads
on that day with 212 transported prisoners.
Popular excitement reached its highest
pitch. A great meeting was convened three
days later at Circular Quay to discuss the
situation, and protest against the aotion of
Earl Grey and the Colonial Office. About
4000 persons assembled, and the authorities
were so alarmed at the serious manifestation
of public feeling that the guards of Govern-
ment House were doubled and a ship-of-war
then in port was brought up to bay and
ordered to train her guns on the place where
the people’s meeting was held. Mr. Robert
Campbell presided, and among the speakers
were Messrs. Robert Lowe, G. A. Lloyd,
Flood, Lamb, Wilshire, Grant, Peek, and
Fullerton. On this occasion, too, Mr.
Henry Parkes made his first important
public appearance. He was then an obscure
agitator among the herd, with no stake or
interest in the country ; but his healthy
Democratic sympathies had already made
him known in his own sphere, and he had
become a member of the League, formed, as
we have seen, in 1835. Mr. Lamb moved
a resolution at this* meeting, in which tire
loyal inhabitants of Sydney protested against
the transportation of British criminals to
New South Whies on the grounds that it
was in violation of the will of the majority ;
that many colonists had emigrated on the
faith of the Government that the practice
had for ever ceased ; because the practice
was incompatible with our existence as a
free colony desiring self-government ; be-
cause it was unjust to sacrifice the social and
political interests of the colony at large to-
tire pecuniary profit of a fraction of the in-
habitants ; and! because that act of injustice
would tend to alienate the affections, of tire
colony from the mother country,
* *
A deputation of six was formed to present
the petition to the Governor. They asked
that the ship in port might be sent back, but
this request was refused. & A week later a
meeting adopted a pet ition praying that Earl
Grey, having forfeited the confidence of the
colonists by his perfidy to the pledge given,
should be, removed from her Majesty’s coun-
cils. On Tuesday, June 19, paragraphs in
the Sydney papers informed the public that
the convicts were to he removed from the ship
that day. Forty-five were sent to Moreton
Bay, for hire by the settlers. The men
were not to he employed in the county of
Cumberland. The name of Air. Lawson was
given as one of the hirers of this last batch
of convict labour. It is remarkable how
strongly the old taint clung to these men.
This man’s name is an easy link between the
early days of grisly horror and the last mani-
festations of the convict-system in New
South Wales. In the course of the same
year the Governor visited Port Phillip, and
the colonists there took the opportunity to
request him to use his influence to preserve
that part of the country from the evils of
the convict-system. A promise was obtained
that any vessels that might arrive, at Port
Phillip would he ordered on to Sydney.
Later, but still in the same year, another
despatch on the transportation question was
received, stating that the ret-adoption of the
system had been decided on. hut limited to
convicts who might he entitled to’conditional
freedom on their arrival. Next year, 1850,
saw further developments. During its
course transportation ceased to Moreton
Bay (May 12), and commenced to Western
Australia. On September 16 another popu-
lar and uncompromising protest was recorded
by a meeting of 60Q0 persons on Barrack
Square. The Keys. Archdeacon MjEncroe,
Ross, Beareer,' Boyce, and West, with
Messrs. Lamb, Mort, Bowman, Holden,
Weeks, and Piddington, spoke on the occa-
sion, and the New South Wales Anti-Trans-
portation Association was formed.
* « »
In the meantime some person had dis-
covered, among some Parliamentary papers
sent out to the Sydney Free Library, a
despatch from Governor Fitzroy to Earl
Grey in relation to the great meeting at the
Circular Quay in the previous year. The
Governor described that gathering as one of
the mob alone—an “ assemblage of a few
hundred people of questionable character ”
It went on to say that most of those.present
were idlers attracted by curiosityj who took
no part in the proceedings ; while of 1 those
actively concerned there was scarcely one
person who occupied any position of iu r
fluence in the community—-contentions re-
markably similar to those which have so
often been used in later times by the colo-
nial Tory or “ Jingo” party for the purpose
of endeavouring to discredit democratic move-
ments or demonstrations. The publication
of this document revived all the elements of
incipient disaffection. An indignation meet-
ing was at once called, and 4000 persons
adopted a petition to the Queen, in which
the Governor was charged with maligning
the great majority of the colonists, misre-
presenting public facts to his official supe-
riors, and betraying the interests of the
colony. It further set forth the incapacity
of the Governor, and demanded his recall;
expressed the general distrust of Earl Grey,
demanded the revocation of the Order in
Council proclaiming New South AVales a
penal settlement, and asserted that respon-
sible institutions were an absolute requisite
for the safe government of the colony.
* * •
Mr. John Lamb, a nominee member of
the Legislative body, hut whose popular
sympathies on this particular question at
least are sufficiently evidenced by his part in
the agitation, brought the question about
this time under the notice of the Council,
and moved a resolution to the effect that an
address might he presented to the Queen,
asking for the revocation of the obnoxious
Order in Council. The opponents of the
popular will, led by Mr. Wentworth, affected
to misunderstand the demonstrations of
public opinion on the question, and their
majority was sufficient to postpone the
motion for a month to enable the people to
give their desires definite expression. This
was a transparent trick, unworthily resorted
to as a means to gain time to organise the
interest which favoured the continuance of
transportation. But it defeated its own
object and resulted in an occurrence which
put the question out of the region of debate
at once and for ever. The transportation
party collected their strength and prepared a
petition in favour of perpetuating this public
disgrace, in their own selfish interests. They
secured 525 signatures in all to this flagi-
tious document. A popular meeting was
held, and a popular petition prepared. It
bore 36,589 signatures, representative of all
classes in the community but one,- It was
presented to the Council. A debate ensued,
which Avas followed with the keenest interest
throughout Australia wherever an adventur-
ous settler had penetrated or a knot of people
had collected together. This time the
opponents of the popular will and the advo-
cates of one of the direst disgraces to civilisa-
tion of which the world’s history has record,
were about to he outnumbered in the divi-
sion. But they were consistent to the last.
When the question was about to be put they
rose in a body and left the Chamber, while
the remnant of the House* carried the Ad-
dress in their absence.
- » *
This episode in our history shows us the
old A ested Interest of the colony, which we
have seen form and grow under the most
distressing circumstances of squalor and cor-
ruption, driven* from its last ditch as an
organised force penly leading in tiro strug-
gle between the people and a class. Hence-
forth its members betook themselvestoamore
dangerous and more congenial guerilla war-
fare, shooting tlieir holts from behind hedges
and blind walls, and bribing the weak, the
ill-informed,. and the venal among the popu-
lar party with Greek gifts.—crumbs of the
treasure tlieir unpatriotic selfishness in the
past had enabled them to acquire.
The Address thus carried was sent on, and
presented in due course to the Queen. The
responsible advisers of the Crown could not
but acknowledge the legislative rights they
had themselves conferred. There could he
but'one result. So far as New Smith Wales
was concerned it was conceded that the prac-
tice of convict transportation must cease.
The Order in Council was revoked. Yet the
Colonial Office still had nefarious designs on
'other parts of the continent. But Australia
was now on the eve of an event which was
destined to, completely change the whole face
of this and: kindred questions. On February
12, 1851, Edward Hargraves announced, his
discovery of gold in New South Wales, and;
by that act, in the words of Mr. Wentworth,
“precipitated the colony ip to a nation.”
The.colopy. was not prepared for.its dazzling,
apotheosis. Its suddenness took the popular ,
mind by surprise, and prevented our'grasp-
ing the matured fruits of such a golden seed-
sowing of national fortune.
In January of the.same,year the agitation,
had been carried on with enthusiasm,
gathering strength from the.fact that trans-
portation to Van Diemen’s Land was still in,
force. At a meeting held it was proposed to,
constitute one,General League, the members
of which should covenant together to take.
'every means' to discourage and discounten-
ance the practice of convict transportation.
The Anti-Transportation Association was in-
corporated into the General League, and
delegates were sent throughout Australia to,
organise public opinion on the subject. The,
League described itself as ‘ ‘ hound by every
obligation of duty and affection to protect
the children of the country from the dangers
incident to the transportation of offenders to.
these colonies,”.and its members “ united in,
a solemn appeal to the humanity and justice,
of the Sovereign and people of Great
Britain on behalf of the rising genera-
tion.” This is the first recorded public
recognition of the fact that some others
besides the adventurers who had settled in
the country for the fortunes they secured
there, had a claim on the Australia of the
present and of the future —the race, namely,
that was to lie horn and cradled there. On
February 8, 1851, the petition of the
colonists against transportation was pre-
sented to the House of Commons by Mr.
Molesworth. Five days after that date a
great meeting on the same subject was. held;
in St. Patrick’s Hall, Melbourne.
* # #
On July 9 a muster of the General’League
was called, and a meeting held under the
chairmanship of Mr. Charles Cowper, in
view of an announcement from Earl Grey
that, in order to meet the objections of
colonists, the Moreton Bay district should
he erected into a separate colony, to which
convicts might he sent. The popular Arch-
deacon M‘Eneroe. with Messrs. Norton,
Wright, Kemp, Holden, Lamb, Campbell,
Josephson, and Parkes were the speakers.
A petition to the Queen was adopted, re-
questing the dismissal of Earl Grey, and “en-
treating her Majesty to redeem the honour
of the British Crown by fulfilling the pledge
touching transportation, repeatedly given to
the colonists.” Animadverting on the con-
duct of the Minister responsible in the eyes
of the colonists for this breach of faith, the
petition went on to say that ‘ ‘ the petitioners
felt compelled, humbly hut firmly, to repre-
sent to her Majesty in person that the sub-
terfuges, equivocations, and breaches of
faith practised towards these colonies by
Earl Grey had unhappily destroyed all confi-
dence in his administration of colonial
affairs.”
• • •
On April 2, 1852, one of the most remark-
able of all the demonstrations on this sub-
ject took place in Sydney. By this time the
added influence of the gold discovery began
to make itself felt, and the speeches took a
freer tone. It was thought by many that
the colonies were on the eve of indepen-
dence. One special point in the address
of Archdeacon M‘Encroe, clearly showing
the temper of men’s minds, was thus com-
mented on by the Empire newspaper next
day in a leading article: —“At this numerous,
influential, and earnest meeting, convened:
by public announcement in the largest city
in the Australian colonies, where any man
could attend and express bis own sentiments*
or his dissent from those of any other man—-
at this meeting the Secretary of State is*
plainly told, for the first time in serious*
earnestness, that ‘ the colonists, rather than
surrender tlieir rights in this struggle, will*
“ cut the painter ” and drift away from the'
mother-country in their frail bark of free-
dom.’ And the venerable Archdeacon, who
spoke these words, was stopped by the
meeting, with tremendous" 1 cheering. This
l: cutting.' of the painter ’ was the master-
thought-—the all-pervading idea, running its
electric light through the varied tissues of
every speech, and diffusing its influences
like; a moral atmosphere round that congre-
gated body.” The Empire had been started
by Mr. Henry Parkes in 1850, and was con-
tributed to by Robert Lowe, Edward Butler.,,
James Martin, William- Forster, Deniehy,
Mitchell, and others. The new journal)
became an intelligent and advanced advo-
cate of Liberalism. No., man reading its
columns nearly 40 years ago, with an impos-
sible prescience of the part some of the
members of its contributing staff were to indi-
vidually act in the public life of this, country.,
would, have foreseen the hybrid social condi
tions and inconsequentand anomalous politicals
system which has since been evolved in
Australia under their eccentric guidance,.
A cynical person,, however, whose allusions
have been corroded by experience, might
look at the matter from another point of
view, and find little, difficulty in accounting
for this distressing infidelity to first prin-
ciples on the lines laid do.wn by a certain
sarcastic Spanish proverb.
Let us finish this chapter with a thumb-
nail sketch of one of the actors in the little
drama we have just gone over. Among the
strangers who haunted the public gallery of
the Legislative Council after .1843 one
obscure figure might, have been often seen,
A, THUMB-NAIL SKETCH.
He was tall, this young fellow, and some-
what gaunt ; with hollow features and eyes,
and all the indications of a highly san-
guine (•) temperament. The early legisla-
tive proceedings seemed 1 so have a fascinating
interest for, this unnoticed observer, dressed
as a workman, and with the marks of toil
common to his class about him. Fresh from
Birmingham, with its crowded fight for life,
he had starved, on the streets of Sydney,
sought and obtained hard work as an
immigrant in, the colony, and, later, dis-
established himself as a maker of toys in
Hunter-street. When not at work he was.
discussing politics among persons of his class,
following a taste he had acquired at Chartist
meetings “at home.” His knowledge of
men and things was acquired in the work-
shops and from his perch in the old Legisla-
tive Council Chamber, and from a dame’s
school at Stoneleigh which he left in liis-
eleventh year. Now, in 1845, Henry Parkes
is just 30 years of age. Fate will capriciously
place within his hands a marvellous oppor-
tunity by-and-bye. And because he has not
been trained to exercise such an opportunity,
he will fatuously throw it away.
)
Balmain (Sydney) Council, with a view to
the public health, lately started supplying the
ratepayers with tins of a certain excellent deodo-
riser. The prudent housewives of Balmain use
this as knife-polish. Every little helps.
Dear Bulletin, —The other day a man
was carted from one N.S.W. back-block town to
another in what turned out to be a dying condi-
tion. The doctor attached to the gaol to which
the prisoner was conveyed is alleged to have said
he was merely shamming ; yet, from the evidence
at the inquest, it appeared that the poor wretch’s
liver weighed 121 b. instead of about four, the
normal weight. It is further alleged that when the
miserable dying wretch asked for the small luxury
of a fire to keep him warm it was denied him by
the authorities. As this matter doesn’t concern a
very high official, perhaps Minister Clarke will
take the trouble to look into il- tioauß,


Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.— “ Alone in London” p. IF
Her Majesty’s. —“ Lights o’ London ” „
Criterion. — < ‘Vice Versa”& “TurnedUp” ~
Alhambra. —Minstrelsy - -
New Opera House.-—" East Lynne ”
Academy of Music.— Federal Minstrels „
Among the things that are liable to happen
to a man in Australia “East Lynne” holds a
prominent place. It is always happening—this
dull, drivelling, unwholesome, incoherent, weep-
ing, tottering, snuffling drama, of which one-half
is impossible and the other half ought to be, while
the whole is feebly immoral, and tends to excite
hysterical girls and fill them up with an idea that
one of the nicest things on earth is to run away
a«d be awfully, gloriously wicked for a month or
two, and then repent in pretty clothes and bang
their heads against the furniture for the rest
of their unnatural lives. The whole story is
built upon the incomprehensible conduct of one
miserably stupid, empty, washed-out woman,
but the sickening ash - barrel of coarse
realism is disguised with silk and blue specta-
cles, and the common, vulgar swears of the
very common villain who pervades the piece are
varnished and distempered until they sound
almost pleasant to the ears. Sydney Opera House
is devoted during the present week to the repro-
duction of this old, sick dead march in Saul about
the woman who ran away and spent the rest of
her life in tears and dead faints, and Miss Ada
Ward lends herself to the crumbling, senile dry-
rot of Lady Isabel. Anything that can be done to
make the character interesting she does, but Lady
Isabel isn’t interesting in any capacity. She begins
as a fair and innocent idiot in white mooning around
a beautiful home; she goes on as a shattered
mechanism chained to an obvious ass in a tall
hat; and she ends as a mourning screamer in
black crape and spectacles, weeping over a small
boy who dies with his clothes on. Miss Ward
holds up all these parts with great ability, but
they are no more worth holding up than a decayed
and evil-smelling whale. Mr. Arthur Lawrence
has made his escape from the Opera House, and
his absence casts a gloom; and Mr. Frank Gerald,
the only talented male citizen who is left in the
company, is wrecked by a miserable fate which has
billed him as Archibald Carlyle, a disgustingly
moral individual who evidently makes him feel
tired. Mr. Gerald would shine as Levison, but it
isn’t worth anybody’s while to shine as Carlyle.
Mr. Stanmaur doesn’t shine? as Levison. Mr.
Edwin Palmer appears as the shadowy outline
of a shocked uncle, and has an accent that a hat
and coat could be hung on and an umbrella stood
up against; and Mrs. Palmer scores some good
points as a certain interfering female
## # #
“ Bright Hopes,” to be produced at Syd-
ney Opera House this Saturday, is from the pen
of Geo. Comer, an author well-known in London,
none of whose work, however, has yet been shown
in this country. It is said to contain powerful
and original situations, and consists of a prologue
and four acts, the scene being chiefly laid on the
bank of the Murray. Miss Ada Ward holds the
Australian rights of the play, and will, on the
occasion of its production, sustain the part of
Marian Hood.
>X< * # #
At Sydney Alhambra the management
announce an entirely new programme “never
before heard or dreamt of,” which seems to signify
that Frank Smith’s powerful company has a strong
order on hand. If there is anything new under
the sun in nigger minstrelsy it is generally to be
found at the Alhambra, and a constant series of
new girls as the old girls get worn out keep the
public interest alive. What becomes of the old
girls we have never been able to make out.
## * #
Mr. Arthur Lawrence has joined Brough
and Boucicault at the Criterion. Even the re-
markably strong aggregation which lias been
running “Vice Versa” and “Turned Up” with
such good results will be much strengthened by
this addition to its numbers, and the success of
“Modern Wives,” which is to be staged next
Saturday, will be doubly assured.
# # #
Fred. Iliscocks’ new combination fills
Sydney Academy better than the old one, and
business is as good as circumstances can well
admit. The “ Lights of London ” glare as before
through the fog at Her Majesty s, and the rush is
tremendous —a circumstance which is almost
entirely owing to Mr. Rignold s water-jump. If
he fell into drink instead of into a canal the de-
cline in public appreciation would bi something
terrific. The Sydney Elite Skating Rink, Lliza-
beth-street, Sydney, held a carnival last week
which proved to be one of the best events of the
kind ever witnessed in the city of Botany . Bay.
Mr. Agin ton, who claims to be champion rinkist
of the globe, holds forth cn wheels at this estab-
lishment every night, and challenges all the
human race to rink against him for millions ster-
ling. Bondi. Aquarium rakes ' n ready money as
hitherto in its location among the sandhills, and
the tramline which hangs like a cobweb from cliff
to cliff has, so far, carried its thousands of passen-
gers without damage to anybody’s neck. A lec-
ture by a gentleman who inquires ‘‘ Is there a
God '! ” is also announced.
## # #
The French Comedy Comedy, at Sydney
(laiety, struck a more promising reef this week in
“La a jovial comedy by Sardou.
The piece is good in itself, and the company has
now gained a moderate amount of confidence,
owing to-a delusion which has come over them to
the effect that a certain number of their auditors
have acquired some faint idea of what they are
going on about. Here and there, too, may be
observed a look of sudden intelligence which tells
how some unusually advanced French scholar has
succeeded in getting hold of a past participle of
three letters, and has mistaken it for a preposi-
tion, which he can’t distinguish from a pronoun;
bub, all the same, he is pleased and happy at his
own progress in catching on to the French
“axint,” and is resolved to come again next night,
and see if he can’t carry a verb away to take to
bed with him. M. Marsay holds up the principal
character in “La Papillonne,” and does it better
than anything he has done before. Mdlle.
Linange, who supports him and herself as well,
fills her part to overflowing with Parisian fun, and
three or four other characters are executed in a
way which isn’t calculated to hurt anybody’s feel-
ings to a serious extent.
## # #
Last Saturday the Triumvirate produced
at Sydney Royal the best of the Bland Holt
series, “Alone in London,” which was splendidly
mounted and strongly cast. There is a literary
merit in the dialogue which is too often lacking in
plays of the luridly sensational and modern melo-
dramatic type, and the construction of the plot is
close and the incidents relevant and coherent,
which is also a feature of not common occurrence
in pieces of the “New Babylon” class. The finest
acting in “ Alone in London ” was undoubtedly
that of Myra Kemble, who played the part of a
Gipsy waif, Tom Chickweed, in a sUbduedly
ntense and pathetic manner, subordinating the
part in a most artistic spirit to the requirements of
the drama as a totality. Bland Holt’s Jenkinson,
thief, philosopher, and innkeeper, is the best piece
of character acting we have ever seen him essay,
and gives us a considerably higher opinion of his
powers than we have hitherto entertained. Mr.
Walter Howe has a strong character to pourtray
in John Biddlecomb, a wealthy, honest Suffolk
miller, and he puts a hearty vigour into the part
that carries him through long waits of absence off
the stage to the place of first favourite in the last
act. Mr, C. Holloway, the great William’s fra-
ternal relative, performs a satisfactorily villainous
part as a heartless and callous scoundrel without
a single scintillation of humanity or ordinary good
nature, and receives the severe but merited re-
probation of the audience at the end of every
act. Mrs. Bland Holt is overweighted, but she
plays conscientiously, and Leo. St. Lawrence is
not weighted enough. B. N. Joneß plays a
Spartan father with meritorious severity ; Hans
Phillips has nothirg to do and doesn’t shine par-
ticularly in doing it; Mr. Walter Hill performs
an Italian part consisting mainly of a brogue, red
handkerchief and a short pipe, and excels; and
finally Mr. Arthur l’oulton irritates everybody by
a magpie performance, partly negro minstrel and
partly Whitechapel swell, But the great feature
of “ Alone in London ” was its scenery, amongst
which the special erems were “ The Thatched
Eaves,” a charming Suffolk county scene, a frosty
night on Westminster Bridge from the Lambeth
side, the Colinderies, the Thames by moonlight
AN “AUSTRALIAN NATIVE.”
and a view of London; which together with the
mechanical effects of the sluice-house scene formed
the culmination of a series of magnificent pictures
almost without a parallel on any Australian stage.
# # # =X=
On Monday evening next Mr. Sidney
Dickinson, M.A., an American gentleman who
comes to Australia with testimonials and press-
notices which tend to show that he is among the
“ first flight ” of lecturers in the land of lecturers
which gave him birth, will discourse at Sydney
Temperanca-hall, Pitt-street, on the fascinating
story of “The Moors in Spain,” illustrating the
building of the Alhambra, and the wars of Fer-
dinand and Isabella. Mr. Dickinson’s orations
are said to be unique in form and manner, rich in
description and humour, and most artistically
illustrated. The lecturer will be assisted each
evening by Miss Marion Miller, the accomplished
American reader, in dramatic and poetical recita-
tions. The entertainment is under the patronage
of Governor Carington, Sir Alfred Stephen, and
Premier Parkes. Mr. W. J. Wilson is agent for
Mr. Dickinson.
## * #
Annie Mayor returns at once from
America and locates herself at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney.
*# * *
There has been a mild financial crisis at
one of the N.SAV. theatres this week.
## * #
Mrs. George Darrell, we are told, is turn-
ing out to be a capital actress.
#* # *
On Saturday night the Gaiety burlesquers
appeared in new disguises to carry ou their old
business under another name. Once again the
Princess’ stalls were reserved at five shillings a
time, bouquets were freely slung about from a
managerial box, and the outward visible signs of
success gleamed through the gathering mists of
doubt and disappointment. Between “Monte
Christo’’and “Miss Esmeralda” there is a dis-
tinction without much difference, but if the two
shows were shaken up together the old one would
probably come out first. “ Esmeralda ”is a long,
thin travesty of “Notre Dame,” and the plot
might be funny enough if it were not continually
pulled up short to allow all the principals, in turn,
to give private performances on their own respec-
tive accounts. At some of these periods of arrested
development the audience are apt to become pen-
sive, and the artist on the stage is more or less in
the position of a damp firework spluttering at a
funeral. However, as there is no authenticated
instance of an actor or actress voluntarily relin-
quishing a “turn,” things will continue to
drag as on the Saturday night, and likely
enough the Gaiety boom will abate some-
what before the season closes. Mr. Fred. Leslie
renews his former triumphs, and sings an Irish
song which is a brilliant contrast to “ Bally-
hooly.” He has a genius for extracting fun from
his make-up, for imitating noises ranging between
the pig’s grunt and the penny trumpet’s blast, and
for many other of the fine arts. Miss Nellie Farren
doesn’t appear to have grown on ’em as The Bulle-
tin predicted, but she struggles gamely along
under a burden of leaden talk and pointless songs
that might crush actresses of established popu-
larity in Australia. Of the others, a word next
week. “ Miss Esmeralda ”is magnificently put
on the stage, and each of the two acts terminates
in a blaze of splendour.
** # #
“Faußt” filled Melbourne Opera House
on Saturday, when Governor Loch lent his lucra-
tive presence on behalf of Miss Sherwin’s failing
cause. Taken altogether, the performance came
up to all reasonable expectation. Signor Hazon,
as musical conductor, shared honours with Armes
Beaumont, Verdi, Amy Sherwin, and Minna
Fischer. Mr. Otto Fischer made a promising
debid in the part of Valentine, and a successful
show was brought to a happy conclusion by a bevy
of angels bearing Marguerite away round the
corner. The Kingdom of Heaven now appears to
be situated in Little Oollins-street, but the other
place is down below, as usual.
** * #
w*w * '
Other Melbourne theatres are preparing
strange delights for Exhibition week. Mr. Dion
Boucicault returns to the Bijou with a new play—
“ Comrades ’’—and the company is to include Mr.
St. Maur and Miss Agnes Thomas. At the Royal
Miss Carrie Swain breaks out anew in “Jack and
I.” Carrie will appear as the personal pronoun,
The crowd in possession of the Alexandra also
intend to perpetrate a change of programme,
which is a consummation devoutly to be wished,
Meantime, Harry Rickards and the Coghills are
in great feather at Sb. George’s Hall, and the Vic-
tona combination of all stars still enlightens the
Minstrel Sky, vide advertisement. The Juvenile
Exhibition is at the point of dissolution. Last
week a considerable amount of ready cash was
distributed in connection with certain juvenile
competitions. The awarding of these prizes has
created an impression that if certain of the for-
tunate contestants hadn’t even taken the trouble
to compete they would have gob there all the same.
## # #
As a number of old Augub supporters
object to attending the Exhibition ceremony in
claw-hammer coats, their horganhas beooxne de-
mocratic for the nonce, and discusses the situation
thus: “It may be said that evening dress is
required at the Governor’s levee, and very absurd
that requirement is ; but we expect absurdities in
connection with ‘ Court ’ ceremonies .” Coming
from the Argus, such sentiments are quite too
alarming. We shall soon have it calling Her
Gracious an absurdity.
#* * *
Mr. Tom Bent, M.L.A., who recently fell
over a plank and sustained serious injury, has
recovered his health sufficiently to be able to dis-
tribute £-700 among Melbourne charities. Ahem !
## * *
Mr. Alfred Dampier and his company
have been earning golden opinions at Brisbane
Gaiety. The papers are enthusiastic all round,
and one editor rose up and published a portrait of
Miss Lily Dampier, which that pretty little lady’s
father would probably have killed him for, had it
not been explained that the journalist didn’t in
tend any harm, and was doing his best.
## # *
Mr. Charles Warner has concluded a
season at Adelaide Royal, which must be gratify
ing both to the management and Mr. Warner.
Charles, Who made a triumph as 1 famlet, leaves
Adelaide with a great reputation, and a consider-
able haul in gold. Miss Essie Jenyns opens as
Juliet, with Mr. Inman as the impassioned
Romeo —“Merchant of Venice” to follow, with
Plain Bill Holloway as Shylock. The Vivians
and W. G. Carey have been appearing at (Earner's
Theatre. The play is “Current Cash,” but the
current takings have not been large. They try
next “Missing at Lloyd’s.”
*# # *
Generally speaking there is nothing more
melancholy than an operatic banquet, where the
proud nobility glare hungrily upon empty tin
plates and drown their disappointment in deep
draughts of ruddy wine from pasteboard goblets
held upside down. Our hearts bleed for the chorus
compelled to sing merry drinking songs—inter-
spersed with rollicking ha ! ha’s ! —under such
trying conditions. It is pleasant, therefore, to
find that Mr. Gus. Harris, of Drury Lane Theatre,
recently spent £3O upon the supper in “La Tra-
viata.” Real chickens, genuine tongues, unim-
peachable jellies, grapes from the vine, and—
champagne in moderation ! Are ye blushing,
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove? Think of:
that dry mockery of a picnic in “Monte Christo!”
## # #
What are we to believe ? Upon one hand
we have numerous newspaper notices of the most
enthusiastic kind, concerning the success achieved
in Vienna and elsewhere, by Miss Meyer, of Mel-
bourne ; on the other hand we find in the London
Referee, ordinarily a very reliable paper, the
following :
“ Poor Miss Menk Meyer ! 1 wonder who is responsible
for her professional visit to London as a pianist? A some-
what Bimilar case occurred about 20 years ago, when a
young Australian, named George Tolhurst, was persuaded
that he was a great composer, and that he had only to
come to Europe to make his fortune. He came, his music
was laughed at, and, having ruined himself, he died I
believe of a broken heart. I sincerely trust it will not be
the same with Miss Menk Meyer, who is a pretty, and
evidently an intelligent girl. But she should at once
place herself under a proper instructor, and not give any
more such extraordinary exhibitions as that in the
Princes’ Hall on Monday, until she has learned to play
pieces which ever}' schoolgirl in London knows by heart.”
#* * *
The last time that “ The Little Treasure ”
(“La Joiedela Maison”), in which the French
Comedy Company opened at Sydney Gaiety, was
performed in Melbourne, the part of Cecille was
played by Mrs. Marcus Clarke. In 1880 Mrs
Clarke (Miss Marion Dunn), after having been
absent from the stage for 12 years, returned to it
for a brief period. Her engagement was at the
Bijou Theatre, and besides “ The Little Treasure,”
she appeared, in July, 1880, in a piece by her hus-
band entitled “A Daughter of Eve,” and one or
two other productions of Mr. Clarke. One of
these —perhaps “A Daughter of Eve”—was duly
billed as “an original English comedy.” A few
days after its presentation somebody wrote to the
Argus declaring that he had found the identical
comedy in the French language. Marcus wrote a
letter to the Argus in reply in which he charac-
teristically said that he “understood that the
French was the ordinary source of all original
English comedy.”
## # *
In “ Robert Macaire ” Irving crowds him-
self every night through 40 or 50 panes of glass,
which have to be replaced next morning. Realism
is an expensive emotion. The Queensland Minister
for Railways has declined to allow theatrical com-
panies to travel at reduced rates, which seems
rough when we recollect that in N.S. Wales half
the company might go free as Orangemen and the
other half be deadheaded through as “distin-
guished visitors.” Mrs. Shaw, the American
whistling lady, is the rage at present in London,
and has whistled her way to temporary fame.
One paper describes her as “a lovely woman with
the shoulders of a Clytie,” but she doesn’t whistle
with her shoulders. No one seems to know, by
the-bye, what she wets her whistle with. A lady
signing herself “ Horatia llibbonson” writes to
the Pall Mall Gazette to state that the “Tam-
ing of the Shrew ” is “ one vile insult to
womanhood and manhood from the first word
to the last,” and screams at Petruchio its
a villainous bully “who goes about crack-
ing a heavy whip at a starving woman.”
Mdme. Perry, a French ballet-dancer, recently
celebrated her ninetieth birthday. She is still in
the front row, and there are three generations of
her on the same stage. The managers of the
“ spectacle ” have promised Mdme. Ferry a big
benefit if she delays her exit in Charon’s ferry
until she has touched the century. Kennedy
played “ His Natural Life” recently at Normanton
(N.Q.), and the man who dishes up the bid
frozen gags for the local paper was pleased
to observe that even the high-class musicians of
Normanton would find the splendid execution of
the orchestra suggestive, if not instructive. And
the whole company, from Frank Gerald right
down to the property man, felt insulted, and rose
in wrath to state — sub rosa —that all the music in
Normanton was comprised in one bass trumpet of
which the inside had been lost. A Brisbane paper
states that Lydia Yon Finkelstein if 6ft. high,
while Alice Barnett is only sft. 10Jin. We
haven’t measured the ladies ourselves. They are
playing a piece at Wolverhampton (England)
called “ Church and Stage.” Among the charac-
ters are an actor, an actress, a swindler, his vic-
tim, his accomplice, a spendthrift, a detective, a
cat, a slavey, a liberal-minded clergyman, and
the villain —a dissenter of the deepest dye.
When Billy Elton appeared in “Dorothy” at
Brisbane a local reporter stated that for a while i t
was even betting whether Sir Thomas MTlwraith
would break the chair he was trying to sit upon,
or split himself in halves. A youthful playwright
recently submitted an original play to a manager,
entitled, “ Why do I Live ? ” After reading the
first page the manager wrote to the author as fol-
lows ; “ Because you sent it by post.”


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW THE
HOST POPULAR LIQUOR
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
fiven for all kinds of Gents’ left off clothing.
)ress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by Quittendon Bros., 11l Russell-
street, Melbourne.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Floor, and your bread will be as white as snow.
The Brickbat.
Slung by Titus Salt, scribe by special appointment to
His Excellency Baron Carington.?
A more exasperating heathen than the
Yellow Chinee was never built to vegetate by the
shores of a foreign sea. The Chow does not in-
vent things now-a-days, but whenever the white
man invents anything the Mongol produces some
fusty record written in a swamped junk dialect
that was forgotten before Herod Agrippa began
to be thought of, to prove that his nation pos-
sessed the very same thing some 2500 years
ago, and that it was patented by Yoo-Be-Hung in
the reign of Ho-Cow ever so many centuries
gone by. This sort of thing makes the white man
mad. The old Chinese inventor never made the
slightest use of his device ; he simply built it, and
looked at it in his own stolid, aimless, square-toed
way, and let it fester in his brain, and sometimes
ia wet weather he got on the lee side of his won-
derful contrivance and lay there till the rain
was over—but that was about all. He would
spend half a lifetime constructing a two-ton
anchor, and when it was finished he would
put it on the roof to prevent the thatch blowing
off in a gale, or he would use up a fortune in dis-
covering how to make a telescope, and when it
was made he would employ it to carry mud in all
the rest of his life, but he never did anything sen-
• ible with it by any possibility whatever. Still
his old legends rile the Caucasian a deal. The
latest blow to the pride of the Eulopean man is
the discovery that even trades-unions and boycotts
were founded by the lop-sided idolaters of
Eastern Asia, and have been in operation among
them for countless generations. The system em-
ployed is at once simple and effective. Not long
ago Si member of the Gold-beaters’ Association at
Soochow broke the rules by taking two appren-
tices in place of one, and the society sat down to
consider the matter. The case was viewed from
every possible standpoint, and it being finally re-
solved that the offender should be bitten to death,
the society took 123 bites out of him,
after which his soul was fired up into the
blue empyrean. Personal vigour like this is un-
common in Europe, but it shows how lamentably
deficient the Chinese are in the mechanical arts.
They invented gunpowder and yet didn’t know
how to blow up a commonplace offender. They
constructed the mariner’s compass, and with its
aid they could have chased him in a due north
direction till he died from fatigue or fell into the
Frozen Ocean, but they never even thought of it.
They build hundreds of brass gods, but for want
of a block and tackle they couldn’t hoist
one up and let it fall on his cranium; and
they make cannon, .yet it didn’t dawn on one
of them that if they made him crawl into a gun
and then corked up the end so that he couldn’t get
out, the ends of justice would be fully satisfied.
This lamentable want of resource is a hideous
f eature in the Chinese character.
* * •
The Northern Territory is getting into
new difficulties with the patient, law-abiding
Freetrade Chinaman. All the settled .districts
are now pervaded by bands of Mongolian
prowlers, who crawl as silently as the dawn of
freedom into tents and hotels and other places, and
1 go through ” sleeping citizens, or else stab them
and go through them afterwards; and the streets
are haunted by opium-soaked spectres, who assail
helpless women and little boys that do no harm,
and who fish clothes and jewellery through neg-
lected windows when the track is clear and things
are “allee li.” The abilities of these gentlemen
are such that they can steal a whole district
naked, hungry, and imbecile in less than
a week, and soon there will be nothing
left for them to lift but the earth itself and the
sea. These, it is anticipated, will be carried away
shortly—in fact, the only apparent reason why
they haven’t yet removed the province off its
basis and folded it up and silently stolen it away
is that they want it to stand on and howl ; when
they are quite finished cursing and thieving on it
they will slide it from under the white duffer and
take it home to grow tea on. People in the
Northern Territory who once believed in the plod-
ding Chow are at last beginning to realise that he
isn’t the person he has been cracked up to be,
but the odds are too heavy against them, .and
they are compelled to stand idly by while
the plaintive Asiastic prigs the whole face
of nature and ships it to China in
hunks, along with the climate and the de-
grees of latitude and longitude. He is even
beginning to cart away the time and the seasons
of the year, and he is removing the public senti-
ment and the living principle of life in bags.
European citizens who once jeered at him for
being slow are only now beginning to realise how
painfully fast he is when he feels himself master
of the situation ; they have seen him start out to
commit a burglary on a Tuesday and get there the
previous Sunday afternoon, and they have
watched him fleeing from death till at last the
destroying influence was fain to sit down in sheer
weariness by the roadside and wipe his perspiring
brow with the edge of his scythe and curse,
and at last they are forced to acknowledge
that the velocity of the flat-footed wanderer
is too much for them. He embezzles the
alligator out of the river and the tail off
the fowls of the air, and he tracks the labouring
cow up a tree and throws it down to his pal who is
waiting below. He steals the date off a bill at
three months and borrows the eye out of the white
man’s head when he is hidden at the bottom of a
coal-pit, and he cadges the hell out of the pale
Christian’s doctrines and takes it home to boil
kitten-soup upon. There is no longer any rest for
the Australian in the Northern Territory unless
he goes up in a balloon, and the cry of a distracted
nation is, “Where are we all going to?” No one
has found an answer yet, and by the time the
response comes the chances are that the silent
Chow will have taken the loan of the place so that
they can’t go there. Even the colonist’s frame of
mind has been stolen so that his mind hasn’t any
frame left, and his horror has been prigged
for a yellow heathen to feel horrified with, and
his National Anthem has been removed to be sung
before Joss in a barbarous cat-chorus beginning!
“ Foreign debil savee him big Confucius,” and a
cleaned-out race has no resource left but to curse
the day when they admitted the slimy heathen
within their borders. And when the same heathen
removes that day in a junk, after the manner of
Job who wanted to shift a similar occasion out of
the calendar and throw it into an ash-heap, even
this small consolation will be lost and they will be
left to sit down and glare speechlessly into
vacancy.
WHICH, OF COURSE, MAKES ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
POLICEMAN: “I SAY, NOW, COME OUT OF THAT: YOU’RE DRUNK!”
VOICE FROM UNDER THE HAT: “I AINT. I’M DERE— (hic) -LICT.!’
The following moral item, fresh from
London per submarine cable, is hereby recom-
mended to the notice of the ungodly
“The Archbishop of Canterbury (the Most Rev. Dr.
Benson) has withdrawn an inyitation to a garden party at
Lambeth Palace which had been issued to Colonel Hughes-
Hallett, the Conservative member for Rochester, who
was some time ago accused of having seduced his step-
daughter.”
In connection with this item we have three sug-
gestions to offer. First, the Archbishop, as the
visible symbol of a religion which teaches poverty
and contempt for worldly indulgences, shouldn’t
have a palace. Second, he shouldn’t give garden
parties. Third, if he has a palace and gives
garden parties, or if he hasn’t the one and doesn’t
do the other, in either case he ought to invite
Hughes-Hallett and urge him to stay all day and
shake down at night, it being his mission to call
not the righteous but sinners to repentance. If
Colonel Hughes-Hallett won’t come to him he
ought to go to the Colonel, and if he is refused
admittance he ought to pray through the keyhole.
It is the Archbishop’s business to sit down with
publicans and sinners, and if he is too lofty to
follow in the paths of the Master whom he is paid
£15,000 a year for resembling he ought to be
sacked as the worst attempt at a Christian ever
yet invented. The business of the Church is to
hunt after the vilest of sinners, not to tear around
amid palaces and garden-parties and salaries of
£15,000 per annum ; the man whom the bishop
or the archbishop should stick up in the
street is not the duke but the thief and
the garrotter, and he should have a seat in the
gaol-chapel instead of in the House of Lords.
But the style of Christian whom the Redeemer
invented has all but died out. The cross is
covered in modern times with gilt and plush and
‘tasselled embroidery, the cleric Smokes Shilling-
cigars on Calvary and eats strawberries and cream
in the Garden of Gethsemane, and a steam-heating
apparatus is attached to the Jordan lest the cross-
ing of that icy stream should be disagreeable in
cold weather. The modern Lazarus is raised by
telegram—when he is raised at all—because the
bishop of to-day fears to get damp feet with fool-
ing around the sepulchre, and the new Magdalen
is told to call round the day after to-morrow and
wait by the pig-sty, and, perhaps, if his lordship
doesn’t forget all about it, he will send out a
. flunkey with a soup-ticket. The leper isn’t
cleansed any longer, but if he gets himself starched
and ironed the Church may possibly condescend
to look at him through a telescope and tell him
that if he doesn’t keep further off it will send for
the police; and its message is no longer “unto
them that are lost,” but merely unto them that
are lost in a tall hat and a spiky collar. Conse-
quently we are not so deeply impressed as we
might be by the expensive Archbishop’s lofty
moral attitude re Colonel Hughes-Hallet, and if
the reverend person is too elevated to look
after stray souls, it appears to us that he might,
in his capacity as a worldly gentleman who didn’t
attempt to be a Christian, have abstained from
sending any invitation at all to that prominent
sinner. To send it in the first place and withdraw
it in the second, and permit it to be advertised in
the papers in the third, reads very like asking
Barabbas to have a drink' and then stating in
public that he isn’t good enough to drink with,
and such a trick is low and degrading for a coster-
monger, let alone an Archbishop.
The Derelict —The neglect of the N.S.W.
Government to ascertain the name of the vessel
before blowing it up.
During the Jubilee grovel a certain section
of Melbourne Sassiety, which is strongly anti-
Irish, proposed to have Faddy’s Market re-named
“ Victoria Arcade.”
The English telegraph-departmeht loses
£200,000 a year by Press messages.
The Servian Treasurer has got his Parlia-
ment to put a tax on bustles —20 francs apiece.
There is a “Decrepit Ministers’ Fund”
established in Melbourne. If something similar
were floated in Sydney, Sutherland might be in-
duced to retire.
A Melbourne Argus correspondent boldly
advocates that the Broken Hill Proprietary Com-
pany subdivide the present shares so as to float
the mine on the basis of a capital of £5,000,000
in £5 shares.
The Victorian torpedo-boats were not
called out for nothing. A gallant tar on the
Nepean went below to see if, the enemy was about,
and somehow the compartment became air-tight,
and the brave nearly died for his country right
away. He was discovered just in time to prevent
an imposing public funeral taking place.
Sydney E. News states that shearing in
midwinter leads to “ the death and consequent
suffering of thousands of sheep annually.” As
the suffering in this sentence comes after death, it
is evident that the News believes in an eternal
perdition for sheep. How about the goats ?
A notable sign of the times in Melbourne
is the Land and Property Record, a three-
penny weekly born of the local boom in real
estate. The success of this new departure in
journalism (originated by a level-headed recent
arrival) is calculated to make land nationalisers
sit up and wonder when the State will require a
Property Record, and booms will benefit the
people without distinction of persons. Most dis-
tressing tales of unearned increment are found in
the smart little Melbourne publication, which
openly professes to be “ devoted to the interest of
investors ” —in God’s earth. We feel it our duty
to remind the editor that there will be a Great
Hereafter, according to all accounts.
Aboriginalities.
In West Australia, recently, an aboriginal,
whose colour showed that Providence had meant
him to keep dark, was charged with banging a
policeman. The policeman testified violently in
the box, but as the prisoner did not understand
English, and no one could translate to him with
any success, and he had no lawyer, and even if he
had had one he couldn’t have paid him, and as a
lawyer wouldn’t have been able to make him com-
prehend anyhow, he lost the benefit of a lot of
European ability. He didn’t call any witnesses,
because he didn't know what a witness was ; and
he didn’t address the jury because he couldn’t,
and also because he didn’t know what the 12 white
men meant by sitting down on hard seats and
staring at him the way they did; and when the
judge admonished him he wondered in his plain,
aboriginal way what a judge was for at all, and he
wanted to go out and hunt the juicy ’possum and
eat the luscious grub. Then the jury returned a
verdict as follows : “That the prisoner is guilty,
but they much regret that prisoner was not
represented by counsel, and beg to express disap-
probation at the manner in which the evidence
against the prisoner was conveyed to him. In
fact," the foreman added, “ I believe that the jury
consider the prisoner should understand English.”
The judge, who was probably much surprised at
the idea of a jury considering that anybody should
understand anything, closed the proceedings with
a sentence of five years’ hard labour, and the
aboriginal was removed, still wondering.
+ * *
The latest and largest snake-lie from the
Murkan press :
“Colonel Irvine, who lives just on the out-skirts of
Richmond, Kentucky, had three barrels of Anderson
county whisky 14 years old in his cellar, says a Lexington
paper, lie left the bung holes open to age it faster and
make it mellow. Judge of his surprise when he went to
show it to some visiting friends one morning to find that
it was nearly all gone, and in one of the barrels ODly about
two gallons were left. In this barrel over 40 large black
snakes were discovered, all in a state of intoxication,
while in the dark corners of the cellars groups of rattle-
snakes were coiled, some sobering up, while others were
in various stages of intoxication.”
Competition toils after this yarn in vain.
* # »
Scene : Twelve-Mile Shanty. Aboriginal
run out by boss, who says: “Get out of this!
I’ll give you no more grog; clear out now, Billy.”
Billy (pickiDg up two hunks of quartz and looking
at the sign- board): “Look here, Mister, you
gib it one big pfeller nip, or by —— I’ll mash
your licence ! ”
* * *
Dear Bulletin :—Does it ever occur to
you how nice it must be to be dead ? Provided
always that a fellow’s grave is kept green —or that
his ashes are kept bottled, as the case may be—-
and that the hunk of brick with the lies on it isn’t
allowed to grow lopsided above his wreckage, and
that the asses are dusted off his final resting-place,
doesn’t it strike you that it must be rather agree-
able to be a corpse? What kind of a half-ton
monument would you prefer to be squashed with,
and do.you purpose having a brass band at your
funeral? I ask these questions chiefly because
people have been dying off pretty fast in our
locality of late, and under such circumstances
solemn thoughts will intrude themselves upon
the mind. A few months ago a new doctor
hung out his shingle in this one-horse district and
speedily made his name an execration. He was a
young man from remote Germany, and when he
first arrived he intimated that lie had a specific
for every disease known, partially-known, un-
known, and otherwise, and that raising the dead
came as easy to him as drinking And he cer-
tainly raised more dead than anybody who ever
travelled this way before. He could Btart out in
his two-wheeled catamaran at noon and get four
corpses ready before next morning, and the cheer-
fulness with which he tackled every case was only
equalled by the affability of the undertaker who
followed in his footsteps. People at last began to
think of heaving the half-brick of disapprobation
at his spectacled head, but while they were still
considering the matter he came driving home one
day at a furious pace from the bedside of a fresh-
killed patient, and capsized himself into a creek.
A dozen bush larrikins who were loafing close at
hand held a consultation as to whether they would
let him drown or not, but at last one of them
hauled him out by the hair and landed him on
dry ground. Then he shook the mud off himself
and deliberately fell on the neck of the larrikin
whose uncle he had cured so violently that he
died. “ Mine vrient,” he said sadly ; “it vas
because I drived but ze one horses ze cart in zat I
into ze creek did obtain unto grief. Do-morrow
I drives ze twice horse and ” here the larrikins
assailed him with boulders and other things, and
one-half of them chased him a mile and a quarter,
while the other half tipped his buggy into the
creek. He now kills his patients and drives “ze
twice horse” in another colony.—Yours, &c.,
Yarrangobilly Peter.
• * *
A smart young Australian bricklayer,
whilst working at a new building the other day,
dropped across a hen sitting upon a dozen eggs,
well on in a state of incubation, and whilst eating
his frugal luncheon with his chums he bet one of
them half-a-crown he could wheedle a dozen eggs
out of the ‘ ‘ braw Scot ” who kept the grocery
opposite. Smarty went into the grocery and
bought a dozen eggs, which he put on one side;
and some fifteen minutes later he paid a second
visit to the shop, accompanied by a billy-can con-
taining a dozen boiled and broken eggs, most of
them carrying a well-developed chicken. There
was no gainsaying the evidence, and much as it
puzzled the grocer he was compelled to hand over
another dozen. Needless to say Smarty worked
the oracle, and pocketed his half-crown by means
of the dozen eggs of which he had despoiled the
hen. The trick was clever, but—it was a criminal
offence, punishable by a year or more’s hard labour.
TV if'.*’
Referring to a paragraph in a late issue of
The Bulletin concerning the number of Ryans
about Burrowa, New South Wales, a correspon-
dent informs us that it is not quite safe to call
every man you meet in Burrowa by the name of
Ryan. Sez he : “If yez go to B.urrowa an’ meet
a man, sez you to him, ‘ Good day, Ryan! ’ an’ if
he says ‘ that’s not moi name,’ then you must say,
‘ I ax your pardon, Dwyer,’ and ye’ll be bound to
be right.”
* # *
Justice is eternal, but a publican on the
Darling says it’s infernal. She is a lady and turns
the scales —beg pardon, the weighbridge—at 18
stone. One day she caught a whaler carrying off
a ’bottle of brandy, and she promptly knocked
hjm down, and detained him till the police came.
The magistrate asked her how she held him.
“Please, sir, I sot on him.” This concluded the
evidence, for the bench said, “Then he has been
sufficiently punished.” Next case !


“I have found Mr. W. F. Gaunt’s Phosphorised Iron
Quinine Tonio superior to any others I have used. It is
an excellent nervine.-Yours, Nellie Palmer.” Prepared
only by W. F. CAUNT, The Pharmacy, Camperdown
Obtainable from all Chemists. Take no substitute.”
Personal Items.
Anagram. “ Sir Henry Parkes ” : Shirkers
n’er pay.
Hon. James White is recovering from his
recent severe attack of illness.
The Commissionah takes his ghost with
him to Melbourne Exhibition.
William D. Howells, the novelist, was a
type-setter, and so were Bret Harte and Mark
Twain.
The most silent M.P. in Australia is a cer-
tain auotionefr. He gets all his exercise outside
the House.
Graham Manners Sutton, a younger son of
the late Victorian Governor of that name, recently
died in England.
We respect Governor Carington anil some
of the other Smiths for one thing. They don't
change their name to Smythe.
Lady Colin-Campbell meditates a volume
of reminiscences. It will be interesting should
she publish all her reminiscences.
The late Sultan of Zanzibar leaves 27
widows and 232 children. His full name was
Bargliash Bin Saed. Enough has Bin Saed.
A well- known bookmaker has been elected
president of the Bendigo (Vic.) Hospital. He is
now prepared to provide accommodation for in-
valid clients.
Whispered that our old friend Normanby
will come to South Australia as Governor. His
Lordship is 70, and said to be still looking after a
very young wife.
An inebriated ex-politician stuck- up
Premier Parkes in King-street, Sydney, the °th® r
day and asked for a small temporary loan. The
old man “shelled out.”
Kong Meng has been asked by the Com-
missioners of Melbourne Exhibition to supply
specimens of the river fishes of China. Pretty
cool this, all things considered.
The friends of a certain very “ pushing ”
Australian medical man maliciously say that he
makes £5OOO a year out of his bakery-establish-
ment and £5 out of his practice.
A correspondent suggests that the statue
to Governor Phillip be erected on Pinchgut Island
to commemorate the act of the Governor by
which the island gained its name.
A distinguished foreigner, hight the Mar-
quis Damrong, has appeared in London. The
servants, says a local paper, will have trouble over
this gentleman’s name if he goes out much.
Admiral M. F. OR silly, who entered the
English Navy ia 1837*, and who was on board the
Pelorus -when wrecked in 1839, at Port Essington,
North Australia, has just died in England.
It is a curious fact that nearly all the
Prince of Wales’s Silver Wedding presents from
private friends were liquor-vessels of some sort or
other. His private friends ought to know.
A photo, of Queen Victoria—laughing—
is now being shown in Sydney. It is understood
to have been taken when H.M. heard that she
was known in Australia as “ The 1 re-eminent in
Grief.”
“John Smith, son of John and Alary
Smith,” is being largely advertised for in the
Sydney papers at present. Rumour says that the
street where he is requested to apply is now im-
passable—.
The black-and-gold gown worn by Mr.
Justice Owen on the first day of term in the
N.S.W. Equity Court cost 200 guineas ! And yet
Judge Owen could give sound judgments if hs sat
on the bench in a suit of cotton pyjamas.
On the N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench are
two knights, while on the Victorian Bench—ex-
cepting “the journeyman,” who is merely locum
lenens- all are without handles to their names.
At least two who wear ermine in Victoria are Re-
publicans. , ■
One of our retired bishops, Dr. Bromby,
late of Tasmania, has settled down in England as
Vicar of Edgmond, Shropshire. Another ex-
colonial Bishop, I)r. Tuffnell, of Brisbane, draws
a quiet £5OO as one of the canons of Chichester
Cathedral.
Judge Johnson, of the N.Z. Supreme
Court, has just died in England, aged 08 It was
he whom Dick Ireland, Q.C , of the Victorian
Bar, holding a 1000-guinea brief, brow-beat so com-
pletely over the trial of I ather Larkin for alleged
Fenian ism.
Richard Aspinall (son of the famous A ic-
torian barrister, Butler Cole Aspinall), who some
time since adopted the stage as a profession, av as
to make his first London appearance on Ist dune,
in the 4 ‘ Real Little Lord Fauntleroy Company at
the Crystal Palace.
Frank Hugh O’Donnell, of Times’ libel
notoriety, helped to lead the bigoted opposition
which kept Bradlaughout of Parliament for years.
At the recent investigation it was alleged that he
for a substantial sum lent his pen to the corrupt
corporation of London.
It was generally considered in the Mel-
bourne Law Courts that the Chief Justice made
himself as inaudible as any human being could,
consistently with speaking at all, but since Attorney
General Wrixon led in the Chinese Immigration
case, that opinion has been altered.
Dear disinterested Bishop Barry, if trans-
ferred —or, as the Church hath it, “translated”—
to Chester (Eng.), will enjoy a screw of £4200 a
year, with residence at the palace, Chester, -tie
will have under him an army of 259 benehced
clergy and 140 curates to keep in order.
Nothing is lo3t in Nature. Matter cannot
be destroyed, it only takes another form. Abigail
dropped the aspirate in his allusion to Parkes
‘ 1 venerable ’airs ” and misfortunes. Sir Henry at
once recovered it when he announced, himself
ready to bear all with a “ h air of resignation.
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen, M.P. for Belfast
(Vic.) says that, as there are so many metropoli-
tan pressmen in the present ATctorian Ministry, it
would only be fair to create portfo’ios for representa-
tives of all the country papers. Meanwhile it
would be advisable to start a Government
brewery.
A Tory jibe “We read that, ‘ Gladstone
has his study so arranged that no sound from the
est of the house can penetrate it after the padded
doors are closed.’ It is very nice to know Glad-
stone is properly looked after, but why he is ever
let out of the padded room, is what we really
want to know.”
Sir W. W, Cairns, an tx-Governor of
Queensland, is dead. He was a North of Ireland
man, and brother to Earl Cairns, ex-Lord Chan-
cellor of England, father of our old friend “ Gum-
boil.” Almost the last act of the life of Sir W. W.
Cairns was to write to the Times in defence of the
Chinese in Queensland.
Major-General Cockburn is dead. What’s
that to us, you’ll say. Simply this : he was the
elder brother of “old Cockburn,” the auctioneer,
whom Sydneyites of yore will remember as having
a sale-room where now stands the Criterion
Theatre. “Old Cocky,” as his familiars called
him, was a character in his way.
Mrs. Langtry’s father, the late Dean of
Jersey, was only possessed of £5 when he died.
Apparently the Lily does not permit her family
to participate in her prosperity. It is rumoured
that she is endeavouring to obtain a divorce from
Mr. L., and has bought a ranch in a State
where the separation laws are easy.
Mr. Parnell does not brook familiarity.
The Scotsman’s London correspondent tells how
one of his followers met him in the lobby—after
he had made a fiery speech—with the query,
“Didido that well, Parnell?” The leader of
the Irish party drew back haughtily with the re-
buke, “ Mr. Parnell, sir, if you please.”
The Australian Natives’ Association (Vic.)
has secured Chief Justice Higinbotham, Mr.
Justice Williams, Prof. Tucker, Prof. Morris,
Prof. Pearson, and James Smith as lecturers
during the Centennial Exhibition. It is signifi-
cant that, with the single exception of Mr. Justice
Williams, not one of these gentlemen is an Aus-
tralian Native.
Spencer Browne, who for some years
edited the Brisbane Daily Observer, has re-
turned from England, as special for the London
CHIEF-JUSTICE HUTGTNBOTHAM.
Daily Chronicle at Melbourne Exhibition. He
is also to do on behalf of that journal a special
run through all the colonies. Spencer who is one
of the Queensland Defence officers, has been under-
going instructions at Aldershot, and with the
latest thing out in the way of swagger uniforms,
has been making a sensation in Queen-street.
Rev. Alexander Macully, just appointed
minister of Melbourne Unitarian church, in
succession to Rev. Mr. Walters, now of Syd-
ney, was formerly an Anglican clergyman. He
came to Victoria as a child, and got his early edu-
cation at the local Scotch college ; thereafter he
graduated and took holy orders at Dublin. Hav-
ing striven in vain to accept the 3!) articles, Mr.
Macully adopted the only honorable course open to
him, by leaving the church. Since then he has
established himself as a teacher of elocution and
belles lettres.
The oldest comp, in Melbourne Herald
office says that Editor Winter’s form is very con-
stant, and that any day during the last dozen
years he has been in much the same humour at
2.30 p.m. But if a record above the others was
ever accomplished it must have been during the
Victoria Bridge tragedy excitement. The staff
was short-handed, and the theatrical man was
sent out to fish up as much as he could about the
deceased Miss Swain’s early history. On going to
press they discovered on the “galley” a column
of leaded matter all about, not the dead Miss
Swain, but about Carrie Swain, the actress!
Drink is more than a leveller. It pulls
down genius to let mediocrity take its place. By
drink buzzards rise, while eagles fall.
Another triumph for Freetrade! Lord
Randolph Churchill is founding a new newspaper
in London, and, as a preliminary, “ a large quantity
of paper has been ordered from abroad, because the
quality required is not manufactured in Britain.”
What a fall! The real reason, of course, is that
German paper is cheaper than English paper.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ Dem the change !” says Mantalini Neild.
Garrett has resigned. So is the N.S.W.
public.
“ Never measure a man till he’s dead.”—
N.S W. Parliamentary maxim.
It is cabled that a million and a half of
men have been added to the Russian army by
Imperial ukase.
The proposal to pay members of the Im-
perial Parliament was rejected by only 57 votes.
Gladstone supported it.
Premier Parkes, of N.S. W., says he has
gone through 32 or 33 Parliamentary elections and
has only been beaten once.
Two of a trade can never agree. It is
rumoured that the Protestant Standard is
getting jealous of Haynes.
On 31st December, 87, there were 113
Chinese in the Victorian charitable institutions,
and 125 in the gaols and lunatic-asylums.
England sends annually to India, as sol-
diers, 3(>ro boys under the age of 20. 8.63 per
thousand of these now die annually during
the first and second years of service from typhoid
alone !
Gladstone voted last week, in the Com-
mons, for payment of members. Yet Parkes lately
said that Gladstone was opposed to the principle.
The Sydney “rat” newspaper, perceiving
that Sutherland is squashed, and that Parkes
totters, raises its foot to kick them out. I was
ever thus.
Bishop Sandford, of Tasmania, to which
See he was consecrated in 1883, was a candidate
for the Bishopric of Glasgow, but was defeated by
Canon Harrison.
Lord Salisbury’s eldest son, Viscount.
Cranborne, M P., having turned out to be a jacka-
napes, the British Prime Minister has sent his
second son to read law.
Jawbone Neild contributed a speech to
the fire and brimstone meeting of the L.O. Society
at the Exhibition Building on 12th duly. A
fellow must do something to keep his seat.
Members of the Victorian Legislative
Assembly, who get £3OO a year each, sit in 1 srlia-
ment on an average 36 days in the year in other
words, they are paid £8 6s. Bd. per sitting.
In her address to Parliament, the Queen
starts off with, “My Lords and Gentlemen.
Even her Majesty is evidently beginning to
realise the difference between a lord and a gentle-
man.
At the Orange demonstration in Sydney
some little time ago Jawbone Neild, M.P., said
that Parliamentary oratory was a lost art m
N.S.W. Pooh ! Didn’t Neild himself speak for
nine hours once and couldn’t he do it again :
Amongst the examples of the exercise of
the Sovereign’s prerogative quoted by Attorney-
General Wrixon in the Chinese Immigration case
heard before the Victorian Supreme Court, was
the expulsion of the Jews from England m the
13tli century by Edward I. Mr. W nxon might
Ive gone back a little further and quoted the
11-known case of the expulsion of Adam and
e from the Garden of Eden.
His “ friend ” Garrett having at last re*
ned, Premier Parkes, who notoriously knows
solutely nothing about land law, is acting as
S.W. Minister of Lands. It is rumoured that
means to run the department on the Macna-
ra-lease system.
Parkes says that “if he consulted his
\sonal feelings he would rather ba in the Bene-
:ent Asylum than in the Colonial Secretary’s
ce.” In or out of the Colonial Secretary’s
ce, Parkes seems to be always in a benevolent
'lum of some sort or other.
he Chinkie considers £lOO a fortune in
ina. Let us suggest, as a method of ending the
Acuity, that the Government present each
inaman with £lOO and a free permit to leave
3 country. It is as fair a suggestion as that
blicans should be compensated.
Defending Parkes in what he calls a lead-
' article, Sunday News Haynes says, - “the
st two years has been a period not of progress,
t of (sobering awakening.” Heavens ! nearly
3ry member of the N.SAV. Assembly is “on the
te,” and the smell of the House reminds you of
mblic-house bar at 6 a.m.
T t is now generally understood that the
ndisposition ” from which Chief Secretary
iakin is suffering proceeds, at least partially,
on his inability to digest Premier Gillies’new
.'iff proposals. A divorce between the Free-
ide and Protectionist members of the Gillies’
ministration is imminent.
Will some member of the N.S. W. Assent-
t move for a return giving the names of the
licemen (whether of the land or water service)
smissed from the force during the last year for
shonesty and other reasons ? The Bulletin
ars that such a return would be most instructive
regards at least one branch ofthe service.
Rear-Admiral Field—a high Tory M.P.—
s stated in the Commons that a very able man
great wealth in Victoria had told him that any
imber of men could be bribed in the Victorian
‘gislative Assembly. But that the Admiral
ited that his informant was a “ very able
an ” our suspicions would have pointed to a cer-
in retired squatter with a flame-coloured beard
the slanderer of his fellow-colonists.
Tabletop (Q.) owns two Chinese lepers at
■esf nt. One has lost all his features and the
her is minus both hands and feet. Evidently
hen the Chinaman goes he will have to retire in
barrow. Tabletop is worried a little because
le or two white men are afraid that they have
night the infection, and the people are drinking
good deal with a view to forgetting their
oubles. These remarks are offered in an entirely
ispassi mate spirit. Ereetrade must be main-
lined, and these particular Chinamen aren’t our
ineral.
It is likely enough that (as was hinted
y The Bulletin when the O’Donnell v.
mdon Times libel action was first spoken of)
'Donnell and the Times have acted in collusion
gainst Parnell. Por years past the Parnellites
ave had no love for O’] )onnell, whom they so
;rongly suspected that they deemed it necessary
:> oust him from his constituency. One cannot
lithfully serve two masters. O’Donnell has all
long been foreign editor of the Morning Post,
le nnst rankly Tory paper ever printed in Eng-
uid. And he wears an eyeglass. You can never
rust a man who wears an eyeglass. He is as un-
ertain as a man with curly-iiair.
A physician sajs that a man is shorter
uring the day than night. That is probably be-
■ use his wife picks his pockets in the morning.
Mr. Eugene C, Amsinck, who has justie-
ired from the management of Eeuter’s Sydney
iffice, was, 21 years ago, leader of the reporting
taff of the Melbourne Hekald, then a morning:
mrnal 'owned and edited by George Collins
jevry, at that time member for Normanby in the
Victorian Assembly. Akhurst, the dramatist,
vas sub editor; the late Mr. O’Hea, M.L.A., a
eader writer, and his son, Billy O’Hea, a junior
eporter. Poor “Billy,” whose brains were a#
night as his hair, died years ago on the Aramac,
vhither he had gone in the vain hope that, in a
nilder climate, consumption would stay its hand,
dan. Magill, now a Press and telegraph agent in
Melbourne, was also on the staff. M ‘.Finley,
iow of the Argus, was their law reporter, assisted
>y Tommy Wells, who is still to the fore on the
Vkgus. Amsinck’s happy family was scattered
vhen David Syme, of the Age, bought the
Terald from Levey and made an evening paper
)f it.
The late Sir Redmond Barry, although most
jompous, was extremely polite, and endeavoured
m all occasions to be as courteous to prisoners as
tossible. When Burke, the bushranger, was
reing tried for the murder of Facey Hurst, a
settler, near Eltham, Vic., at whose house he.
ireakfasted, and where, in a scuffle, Hurst was
mortally wounded, he (Burke) intimated to Sir
Redmond that he wished to retire for a while.
The Judge, with a most polite bow and polished
manner, said “ Certainly, sir. Officer, attend the
prisoner.” Aspinall, who defended Burke, re-
marked that being sentenced to death by such a
man as his Honor must be a pleasure indeed.
When Burke was found guilty, and Barry passed
■lentence, you had but to close your eyes and
imagine that you were listening to a sentence
being passed upon some distinguished traitor to
Crown and country, and not a common cut-
throat. The days of courtly judges have, we
think, passed away.
Down one of the principal streets of the
golden city of Ballarat (Vic.) the other day trotted
a blonde leper from the land where the tea-plant
blossoms in the spring. The dust of Hong Kong
still clung to him and he carried the inevitable
two baskets full of bloated vegetation. The
weather was bitterly cold, and Ah Filth danced
along in a sort of wooden jig with a vague, heathen
idea that he might possibly manage to get warm ;
and the square-toed shoes which the Chinamen
build in dim regions lying far beyond the softening
influence of the religion that the white man
quarrels and gets drunk about clattered with a) l
uneven rythm on the pavement. Suddenly it-
began to snow, and the soft white flakes descended
gently on the lost emigrant. He stopped and
gazed upwards, and still doubting if it was real re-
opened his mouth until the top of his head vanished
away down his back and tasted the phenomenon
Then he concluded that Joss had forsaken him
and that the end of all things was at hand, and
with an unearthly scream he dropped his basket
and spread himself down the street at a frightful
gallop. An independent British tramp who war-
following close behind softly lifted up the aban-
doned vegetables and sold them at a large dis
count, after which he retired hurriedly in an opp<
site direction and the thoroughfare was left
deserted.


*
'<//> %
A
r i 5 /Vi 7 C/1
Vv
r/ */f
V
TtJn ti tfANQ F/ Doo
/F/jPFRa# OF j
C/{'*"l OrdO r
f'i fu.fyu f
U<bJ~e on JF
Co r 9 e f
//> (d/tS/,
Alh \
bs c
%/ a
%
<? AX,
A Ax
A A x x\
"A x- A c? \
. r X- -AX
*fe? a A A
XXX-XX
\ \ - ''X
—* r^c
vVi 1-
W s c > •
b x
v v*
s*’
a ~~hs// cl c
The Latest Aspect of the Chinese Question.
(From a recent Illustrated Chinese Paper.)


Mi Ritchie, tho President of :.<v-t»l From the tone of the debate the Govern*
r„utmment Board, "'ho hae chatge of the merit, evidently intend to initiate a
a , irf consented to' .in amendment pro- . amemfttic scheme of forwarding. British
vtiling for the le.pavmtnt of the advances paupers as emigrants to the colonies,
made *o intehd.ti',- mt: a tit a
**«>w
%<r
To u 9 /
Jo/,? Qccff-'yuU jce .yutt otjcc ted. to fr>c.
ie.cu.ute. rfeOerc (if. icfitp race.
to'eff/%es<i fere CL^ C -
V our oAf f/esb
1 C Clip d 6 o<^/;
V’Oit r/k<L~
/k, w- P 1
I ! % i a ls r 1
y ai CLr jtjouir)Czd'Y \
of USip l9 a ) (o^o>il'' 0 9
cl,eersj
* * *' J)r R£NwlC^
" u>ert- tu)ip biffs
OU'o/r to de,aJV
'■ t .oirf tje. otfer. "
o"
ccy s fe fia s
ot/erecZ ~ffe E'CC Ccc7f / OJ.f/ce^
&
a fie Ca/y tyr Qdrrc/rfff
r*f/> /
fO« a<is 1
u? a
vb
'if\
-
bn"
7*00% Tom '3 a-' oo^
miiir'-' rt" ' <
, ,na/J KwV" aa > a, 7 '
■
tcJcc&J
The Pope on the Wallaby—and other Trifles.


A Slight Mistake.— lt turns out the person charged
with personating a detective was innocent. At. the time
the constable arrested him he was busy in his garden
sprinkling his flowers. After some conversation, the con-
stable asked him his name, and the person thinking he
asked, “What is the name of that?” meaning the liquid,
replied, “ Dktkctivb Soap.” Hence the arrest. The
prisoner was discharged. The S.M. remarked on the value
of Dbtbotivb Soap, and said no doubt the insects and grubs
were arrested Id tbeir ravages on the flowers.*
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemells Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller Floor. It is the greatest success of the
age.
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED,
Established 1853,
Are as usual showing the largest and
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low prloea
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED
Special attention is oalled to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru-
ments
UEBEL ud WEE PIANOS,
The Wonderful VICTOR PIANOS.
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESTE7 & Co. AMERICAN ORGANS.
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtained Elsewhere
Dustrated catalogues mailed on application, but
enquirers are requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so aB to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W. H. PALING ft GQ-, Ud.
350 GEORGE STREET, three doors from G. P.O,
Society
It would seem that the public manifesta-
tion of official sorrow chiefly devolves upon the
ladies. While Lady Loch was still wringing her
little hands over the loss of the Emperor
Frederick, her husband took the very first decent
opportunity of patronising the Gaiety Company.
His Excellency’s thoughts were fixed on unhappy
Germany, but his lorgnette was religiously bent
on the “ little bits of jam. - ’
* 6 *
The N.S.W. Parliament has voted £lOOO
to the widow of Henry M‘Crummin Keightley,
Police Magistrate of Albury. Both the deceased
gentleman and his widow have interesting episodes
in their life’s history. In 1863 Keightley was
P.M. at Rockley, a dusty bush town some 20
miles from Bathurst. The district was badly in-
fested with bushrangers, and amongst other
houses “stuck up” was that of the P.M., who,
not beiDg disposed to sit by and see his household
gods handled by persons of the Ben Hall and
Johnny Gilbert breed, took down the family gun
and deliberately shot dead one of his assailants, a
man named Burke. The gang, having overpowered
Keightley, were about to put to death the slayer
of their mate, when Mrs. Keightley appeared upon
the scene, and pleaded for the life of her husband.
Ben Hall induced the gang to promise Keightley
his liberty on payment of £5OO in gold. This was
agreed to, and while the party held the house Mrs..
Keightley, unattended, saddled a horse and rode
into Bathurst to her father, the late Henry
Rotton, who hunted up a bank-manager, and pro-
cured the coin required. Mrs. Keightley returned
still alone, this being a condition of the bargain
—at the dawn of morning in time to save her
husband’s fife, the time allowed having almost ex-
pired. The Government refunded the ransom to
Mr. Rotton. Lintels of the house at Rockley still
bear bullet-marks as mementos of that event-
ful October night. Mr. Keightley died last year,
after 33 years in the Government service,
but his widow is not, as has been said by some
papers, “in indigent circumstances.” Mr.
Rotton died wealthy, his Blacktown estate alone
realising £20,000. He was for more than
a generation a well-known man out West. When
the terminus of the Western line was at Penrith
he contracted to carry the mails to Bathurst.
In several Parliaments he represented Hartley
and other western constituencies in the Legisla-
tive Assembly. A little story anent his mail-con-
tracting days is still current in Bathurst, and
shows the looseness with which clerical work was
done by Government officials in the “good old
times.” On the first day of his contract he
handled the ribbons himself, and when the official
brought out some plethoric sacks of newspapers,
Mr. Rotton objected, and blandly informed the
astonished official that newspapers were not in the
bond ; and so it proved, for letters only were men-
tioned. A fresh bargain was struck, under which
Rotton agreed to' bring the newspapers to
Bathurst, but as the post-office was not mentioned
he calmly brought all the papers to his own hotel
—where the Joint Stock Bank now stands, and
where he had had pigeon-holes fitted up. The
Bathurstians who wanted their newspapers had
thus to visit Mr. Rotton’s hostelry for them, and
this helped business much. There were some
queer people in Bullocky Bathurst a generation
ago. There are some queer people in Bathurst
still.
* * •
Public Service examinations in Melbourne
are of a decidedly go-as-you-please character. For
instance, the young men and maiden aspirants for
telegraph billets wrestle with their papers at
different ends of the same room, but any bad case
of male insubordination is punished by trans-
planting the offender between two girls with a
view to making him ashamed of himself. During
the remainder of the exam, the offender’s guardian
angels dig him in the ribs with their penholders
and say, “ O ! you naughty, naughty boy, how
could you !” On the same principle, no doubt, a
more than usually giddy damsel would be lifted
from her seat by her bonny brown hair and
planked between a pair of “ fellars, ” to keep her
quiet, but there is no authenticated instance of
this risky treatment having become necessary.
The girls seldom raise a giggle until the proceed-
ings (there being no gas allowed) are wrapped in
semi-gloom, at which period the “boys” play
tunes on the floor with their feet, and go for the
solitary examiner with paper pellets. This faith-
ful sketch of what happened at a very recent
exam, is supplied to us by a very plump little
darling who was on the spot. So there, now !
• *
The recent trial and conviction in Queens-
land of a husband and father for breaking a
tumbler over the head of the man who caused his
domestic trouble recalls a similar instance in Vic-
toria many years ago, although in that case the
weapon used was a shot-gun. In this Victorian
trouble the husband had on several occasions taken
the wife back on promises of amendment; he,
however, found her walking on one occasion with
another man, and, arming himself with a shot-
gun, he followed and peppered his friend in the
legs. On the husband’s arrest and committal for
trial, old Dick Ireland was employed for his de-
fence, and desired an interview with the accused,
who was out on bail. The interview took place at
Ireland’s house in Royal Terrace, Fifczroy, and when
it occurred the distinguished advocate had just
finished dinner and was in his best mood. He
first asked for the fee and then heard what his
client had to say. “ Just so, just so, you’ll plead
guilty. I’ll say something to the judge, you’ll
make your own statement and it will be all over
in 10 minutes.” The client and his attorney
departed, the former regretting that a big fee
should be spent upon a man who appeared to take
things so lightly, andlookingupon himself as booked
for 10 years at least. Next morning before Sir
Wm. Stawell, C.J., the case came on. Ireland
appeared smiling and said he had advised his
client to plead guilty and throw himself upon
that mercy which the Court was ever ready to
accord to a man who in performing a noble action
had technically broken the law. He drew a
pathetic picture of a home ruined by the ruffian
who was prosecuting, and wound up by asking his
honor to calf upon the prisoner to narrate the
simple story. This having been done, Judge
Stawell’s turn came. He told the base betrayer
that he ought to change places with the prisoner,
and wound up by ordering the litter to be im-
prisoned until the rising' of the court. As it was
the last case on the list, the court rose at once,
and Mr. walked out of court to join Ireland
at Anderson’s bar in a glass of sherry.
* * *
A late London cablegram says
“ Australian butter sent home in refrigerating chambers
has now taken a distinct hold in the London market.”
We shouldn’t wonder. If the butter at our
boarding-house may be regarded as a sample,
Australian cow-grease is strong enough to hold its
own in any market.
* * •
About once a week every Australian daily
informs us that the new Emperor of Germany
THIS PICTURE,
With radiant hopes we cross the seas
To sunny New South Wales,
To pick-the rubies off the trees
And gather gold in pails.
AND THAT.
Our radiant hopes have gone to smash,
Someone has found the gold,
We find (being rather short of cash)
An outdoor bed is cold.
“ has no power over his left arm, which is, in fact,
no better than an inert mass.” Then they exhume
the fossilised yarn about him using a combination
knife and fork at dinner. Finally, they give their
respective reasons why the young man has a game
limb, and drivel about this “curious physical in-
firmity.” All this makes us very tired. Long ago,
The Bulletin stated that Emperor William attri-
buted his deformity to a scrofulous taint in the
Guelph blood, and hates his mother in conse-
quence. Which exactly fits in with all we now
read in some of the best-informed foreign papers.
• *
It is related of Mr. W. H. M'Carthy,
the well-known chemist of Hunter - street,
Sydney, that for the first three or four
years after he started in trade he never left his
business premises except for one hour each Sun-
day afternoon. So much for the joys of phar-
macy. He has now sold out, having made his
pile. This recalls to us a story told of another
Sydney chemist who used to carry on business in
William street. He was asked one day to go and
do what he could for a man who had fainted across
the way, no doctor being obtainable, and he looked
round hurriedly for his hat. It wasn’t to be
found. Then he remembered that he hadn’t been
outside the door for five years, and he racked his
brains in the effort to recollect where he put the
hat when he came in on that long-forgotten occa-
sion. He also has retired with a fortune, and
now he goes out at intervals and tries to feel as if
he had never been a chemist.
# * *
The Bulletin has no hesitation in saying
that the new N.S.W. penny-stamp, just issued to
commemorate the centennial year, is a positive
disgrace to the colony, and should at once be with-
drawn from circulation. Whatever the design
submitted by the artist, it must obviously have
been one utterly unfit for reproduction in a re-
duced size. It does not follow that the artist was
in any way to blame ; the fault liee with the in-
competent judges appointed to decide between the
designs submitted, and whose eccentricities and
want of technical knowledge were, no doubt,
taken into consideration by the draughtsman,
whose aim, of course, was the securing of the prize.
Whenever the N.S.W. Government or its officials
touch a matter of art or taste they display the
most abject vulgarity of nature. Post-office carv-
ings, postage-stamps, Centennial Dead-houses,
statues to dead gaolers—it is all one.
• * «
While treading softly along the tracks of
existence we are liable to be struck by misfortune
at any moment, and this great truth is exem-
plified in the case of William Henry Merley, of
Otago (N.Z.), who has been smitten by the club
of calamity and can only pay ss. in the £. Ac-
cording to his schedule this gentleman’s misfor-
tunes commenced by the loss of £142 which he
had tied up in a red handkerchief ready to take
to the bank. He didn’t know how he lost it or
anything about it, but after its disappearance he
was insensible for 16 days, and when he revived
he found that £42 of the money had come back.
Shortly afterwards he had £23 tied up in a similar
manner, and was going to take it to the bank
also, but it disappeared in the same mys-
terious way. Then he made an effort to get to the
financial institution with £4O, but it vanished, too,
and he gave up the struggle and filed. His assets
were too slippery for him, and he urged the credi-
tors to sit up all night and watch the remainder
of the property, or it would also fold itself up and
fly away. If he ever started business again he
intended to put a ton of lead on top of everything
he had, and if the property sneaked off then he
would probably commit suicide. Meanwhile he
had solemn thoughts about nailing down his
victuals as the only way to prevent them leaving
him ; things had become so bad that when he had
a j oint for dinner the meat sometimes flew right
off the bone and went down the street and left
him, and he didn’t know what to do about it. He
still continued to go through the formalities of
life, but earthly concerns had become so shaky
that he was uncertain how long he might
do so, and he would be glad to know if there
were any provisions in the Act by which he could
be tied to something if he felt himself about
slide. The meeting adjourned at this stage.
The latest lunacy is for ladies who own
the name of Edith to spell it with a “ y.” Thys
ys a pyce of sylly affectatyon that will not be
generally copyed, yt ys hoped.
•
Some worshippers in a French Protestant
church have raised a libel action against the pastor
for stating that they were all miserable sinners
and filled with uncleanness and degradation. He
made this remark from the pulpit in the ordinary
course, but the congregation has resolved to test
the legal right of any preacher to slang them from
the top storey of the church. They point out that
if he bailed up one of the young ladies of his flock
in the street and told her that she was a miserable
sinner and a wor-rum of the dust, also a whited
sepulchre and a child of evil, and there was no
good in her, and that where every prospect pleases
only she was vile, he would be whaled by her big
brother and sued by her father and fired out of the
sanctuary ; and they enquire if the offence is les-
sened in any way by the fact that it is heaved at
a hundred other people at the same time and in-
terspersed with hymns which state that they are
all hideous and depraved. They further charge
him with having informed them that they were
going to sheol, and they ask that this sort of thing
should be suppressed. The pastor pleads, on the
other hand, that he was hired to state that his
congregation was sinful and horrible and dis-
gusting, and that if he put it strongly be was
merely anxious to give them good value for their
money, and thus the good fight enters upon a new
phase which threatens to undermine the ground-
props of the poor parson and bring him to the dust.
Speaking of a horse that was wrecked in a
train-collision, Melbourne Herald says : “ Dr.
Webb procured a gun, and fired two shots into
the animal, after which a revolver was brought
into requisition.” The shoemaker should<-stick to
his last: a doctor’s not very deadly with a gun.
* *
A Wesley am clergyman gave a lecture
entitled “Hints on Sleep” at Balaclava (Vic.),
the other night. Parsons should be excellent au-
thorities on sleep—they have it constantly before
their eyes.
» ♦ *
Brassey thinks a royal duke and a brass
band should be forwarded from London to the
Melbourne Exhibition—as exhibits, probably. The
brass band will come ; £6OOO has been set aside for
its keep.
* * *
Those Melbourne people who object so
strongly to their clergymen qualifying themselves
as medical men cannot realise what a handy com-
bination it is. They do not perceive that no
matter how quickly the doctor may kill, the
parson is on hand to administer the consolations of
religion.
* *
The following Shakespearian item was com-
pounded by a hungry Murkan man at a ball -
“Among the matter held over today,”
says Melbourne Herald, “ is an interesting state-
ment by the Very Rev. the Dean of Melbourne
on the question of a material hell.” Then follow
a paragraph on football-fixtures, and a thrilling
description of the damage done in Bourke-street
by a runaway cow ! A word in your ear, O
editor. Football to-day, Sheol to-morrow.
The French So-
ciety of Victoria cele-
brated the national
fete of the Republic
on 11th July by a
banquet. His Honor
J udge Casey, C. M. G.,
was present with a
beautiful moustache,
curled a la Napoleon,
and delivered an
oration in French —
as she is spoke at
Port Melbourne—in
praise of the Republi-
can form of Govern-
ment, which he trusted
would, ere long, rule
the whole of Europe.
Next to the moustache
his Honor’s chief
adornment was the
ribbon and star of the
order conferred cn
him by Her Gracious !
Napoleonic mou-
stache, Guelphic rib-
bon and star, and
Republican dinner!
What a mixture !
• # •
Icisquite refresh-
ing to learn that, at
last, a private de-
tective has been the
instrument of finding
out something which
it was worth some-
body's while to know.
Hitherto the average
private detective has
been regarded as a
person who, after ac-
cepting a stiff fee to
“shadow” r a jealous
wife’s husband or a
jealous husband’s
wife, went to the
li shadowee” and
threatened to “ tell
all” unless plenty
money were forthcom-
ing—in other words,
the typical private
detective has been
looked ipo i as an in-
dividual who took
tips from both sides.
Cairns (N. Q.) is the El Dorado of woman.
Girls up there are so scarce that even a tanned
female, with the complexion of bagging and hands
like hams, gets violently proposed to within six
hours of landing, and the plainest Bridget who
was ever aged 82 and upwards can select from
among six wealthy traders, and bestow her tre-
menjus fist on the handsomest and richest of them
all. Maidens whose {roportions suggest that
they were intended to carry clay for a brickmaker
are in great demand, and even one-eyed widows
have a show. We would fain believe it, and ship
“ Supper makes hogs of us all,
And the native hue of resolution
To snatch something for the lady who depends
upon our efforts,
And who is weak and fasting in the next room,
Is sicklied o’er with the pale cast of thinking
That if we don’t get in at once and help our*
selves,
And never mind the girl we took to the hop,
We will surely get left, for there won’t be enough
to go around.”


Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
off all our maiden sisters-in-law and bereaved
grandmothers by the next steamer, but we have
been taken in that way before. On the whole, we
will wait for further information.
* « *
A tract-distributor, the other day, offered
a leaflet to a ’bus-driver. The latter indignantly
refused the paper, whereupon the man of holiness
waxed eloquent, and told him that he would
be sure to go to hell if he did not “mend” his
ways. Answers Bus-driver : “What, hell! after
eighteen hours of this a day ? No, my friend.
A portly lawyer, whose rubicund face
denotes that he has not been a total stranger to
the good things of this life, has just donned the
blue ribbon. “You see,” he says, “it has been
my weakness during most of my life to buy liquor
for all hands. This at last got to be too. much of a
good thing, for coin is not so plentiful in the land
as it used to be. Now I enjoy my whisky quite
as well as ever, and am not bothered with shout-
ing. The little bit of blue is a capital invention.
s * * *
The placid policeman will now get a rest.
It is the Sydney tram-conductor who will build
the terrace in future.
* * *
Two huge brown bears travelled North
from Sydney by rail lately. Nobody growled
about their having been given compartments all
to themselves.
# *
She was an Irish girl named Hoolihan,
and the descendant of a long line of kings. Her
remote ancestors had reigned in the bogs in the
days when kingdoms were cut very small and
you could hoot from the middle of one em-
pire to the other end of the next one, and
had taken part in these bloodthirsty expeditions
which fill the history of ancient Ireland, where a
primitive race used to fight with its teeth and
clods of earth, and proud monarchs slept along-
side the pigs and did without useless
knowledge or expensive learning of any sort
in particular. The family of the Hoolihans
had decayed somewhat in later times, and the
last of the race washed dishes for the sons and
daughters of the oppressor, but she still preserved
intact the hereditary ignorance of her fathers, and
she was worried a good deal by the outlandish
ways of the Australian race. It was the first
evening on which her patrician mistress (daughter
of a potentate who had first kept a public-house
and then got into the Legislature by lending
money to somebody) had thought it safe to let her
off the chain, and she wandered through the
streets of Sydney with her intellect in a whirl.
At last a voice asked her if she wanted a “ keb.’
She did. She wanted anything that the Sas-
senach had to offer in the way of surprises ; an
elephant or a rhinoceros or an execution or a tire,
an inquest, earthquake, two-headed calf, epileptic
fit, dynamite explosion, sudden death, prizefight,
or anything else —she wanted to see them all. The
driver slid down from his perch at the rear of the
vehicle and gracefully opened the door almost
before she had jumped three feet in the air and
screamed “ Hi! ’ and waved her big cotton um-
brella as a signal that she would be pleased to ac-
cept of his services. Then he looked round for her
and—she had gone. She was nowhere in the street
and she wasn’t inside the cab, and the horse hadn’t
swallowed her. She hadn’t died suddenly, for
then her remains would have been stacked up on
the pavement, and she wasn’t a mere optical illu-
sion-optical illusions don’t scream as Norah had
done just a second before. “Now, where in im-
mortal thunder is that there gal ?” demanded the
cabman of vacancy, and an answer came from the
air above his head : ‘ 1 Shure, an’ it’s here that I
am. plaze the pigs, an’ why don't yez get m an
droive me?” And evenas shespokethe cabsuddenly
rose up in front and hoisted the horse in the air,
thus plainly showing that Norah had bestowed
her vast proportions on the driver’s perch, at the
imminent risk of making the rest of the earth tip
up. How she wa3 rescued is not recorded, but
the chances are that something was broken before
she got down.
* *
A new work on etiquette announces that
“a genteel carver always sits when he carves.”
Perhaps he does, but all the same he doesn't want
to sit. What he hungers after is to get one foot
on the table and the other on the fowl, and then
lay into it with an immense axe.
In California, according to the British
consul, “housemaids and parlourmaids—though
both are usually united in one person—easily
obtain £5 per month.
* * *
Had fates have befallen one or two of the
shining lights of a certain Australian branch of
the Primrose League. Tory ladies and gentlemen
who may be interested in the matter should apply
to the police for information.
* - *
The Chairof Music inMelbourneUniversity,
with £lOOO a year attached, is still going begging.
Meantime, Hon. Francis Ormond draws the in-
terest of his £20,000 endowment.
The other day the S. M. Heiiald had two
leaders, on “Song” and “Smoke,” respectively.
We now respectfully ask Editor Curnow to give
us two dissertations on “ Wine ” and “Woman.”
Experiments are now to be made on an
extensive scale in Sydney with Parker’s patent
composition (asphaltum mixed with cork-chips
laid on wooden-blocks) for street-paving. One
thing is certain : the supply of corks can never
run short in the City of the Beautiful Harbour.
* *
Sydney D.T., in taking exception to the
name “New South Wales,” says it is awkward to
be called a New South Welshman. But could not
the inhabitants be called Whalers, a name already
bestowed on the Murrumbidgee sundowners?
With a few more years of “Freetrade” it would
be appropriate enough.
• * *
For a weak, defenceless woman this ad.
from a Western (N S.W.) journal isn’t bad _
I HEREBY Challenge the mean, cowardly fellow
who shot my goat in the street to give me satis-
faction by a trial with the fists.- Catherine Kerr.
There, now !
A MODERN FASHION.
Mary had a pair of lambs
Whose parents sailed with Noah ;
She tore one’s tail from off its hams,
And wore it as a boa.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, July "25, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
The other day I heard a good story about Ada Ward. A
year or two ago in London she had reason to feel much an-
noyed at the dilatoriness of a certain notoriously im-
pecunious ex-Australian newspaper man who, after con-
tracting to make various alterations in a play for her, had
neglected either to do the work or to return the MS. she
had lent him. After writing repeatedly and getting no
answer she determined on looking him up at his lodgings,
but on arrival at his address was told that he had gone to
the country. Then she asked to see the landlady—who
came down and proved to be a most buxom and dressy
personage. To her the Ward gave a message fertile
neglectful scribe, supplemented by a slightly acidulated
remark concerning the treatment to which ho had sub-
jected her. Then the landlady flared up: “ Do ytu
know, madam,” said she, “that the gentleman cf whom
you are speaking is now my husband ? ” “Ah, indeed,”
replied Miss Ada, so sweetly, “ I suppose you took him to
settle a bad debt V
The annual Masonic ball of the Lodge Sydney Tarboßon
eventuated at West’s rooms on 18th inst., and, with de
Groen at the Erard, particularly efficient Ms.C., a floor
like glass, and Callaghan to attend to the general parch
and famine, could not fail to be a distinct success. A
programme of 25 dances, with ihe M isonic quadrille at
midnight, was successfully negotiated by 3 a.m., and most
of the dresses worn were very charming indeed. I par-
ticularly remarked a shell-pink satin, with ostrich plumes
on the corsage, aigrette in hair, and feather fan en suite ;
a heliotrope tulle skirt, with heliotrope velvet bodice,
ornate with picot-edged velvet ribbon ; a cream Spanish-
lace skirt, with old gold sash, old gold aigrette, and
feather fan of old gold; a shrimp-pink plain front of
velvet, draperies of corresponding surah ; a white satin,
with silver-spangled gauze, white ostrich aigrette, and
white feather fan ; a cream lace and gauze, with tan-
coloured plumes on the left shoulder, tan gloves, and so
on ad infinitum. In contradistinction to these pretty
frocks, however, came a large and avoir-du-pois-y lady,
gorgeously arrayed in pea-green mosquito net, volumi-
nously constructed and trimmed, with rose-pink tar-
latine, pink roses, silver flowers, and several other orna.
ments. She had rose-pink hose and ditto shoes, and a
sweeping pink ostrich feather across her hair.
Mrs. Hoffnung’s dance on 17th inst. may be writ down
a success. The gardens were beautifully illumined by
fairy lamp 3 which even the intermittent rain didn’t seem
to extinguish, and excellent music and refreshments
helped to further the good cause of pleasure. Of the
dresses displayed the hostess wore ruby velvet with passe-
menterie en suite and diamond ornaments. Miss Hoff-
nung, pearl-hued surah; Miss Fischer embodied the
coming Republic in a red gown; Mrs. M'Quade, prune
silk; Mrs. Caporn, black and cerise ; Mis 3 Windeyer, a
pretty gown of light material; and the Misses Hall, Potts
Point, looked very charming indeed in old gold and china
crepe.
A “lady ” advertising recently in one of the papers says
that she wishes to “sell her furniture and leave seven
boarders.” She is going to do this for a change, I sup-
pose. Got tired at last, poor thing, of leaving the furni-
ture and selling the boarders !
A member of the Sydney Hunt Club informs me that
the Club banquet, on 17th inst., at Baumann’s caf6, was a
great success, and that his weary Excellency, whose
yawns were never more infrequent, seemed to put in a
splendid time right through. The Baron, in his carefully'
remembered oration, told the daring steeplechasers as-
sembled that he never knew what cross country riding
meant until he came to Australia, and also that our
jumps were a foot higher than any negotiated in the dear
old mother country. This possibly acoounts for the fact
that Lord Carington makes a very passive sportsman, and
never follows Australian hounds. However, every man
ought to show at least this amount of consideration for
his wife and family, doncherknow.
Randwiok Social Baes held another hop at the local
Town Hall on the 10th inst., when there was an attend-
ance of 130. Three-quarters of the 130 were ladies, some
of whom were very charmingly dressed indeed. The ball-
room was nicely adorned with bunting, fairy lamps, and
garlands. Gunsler supplied refreshments that were
almost an inspiration, and the only two drawbacks to the
perfect success of the affair was that the floor was a trifle
heavy and the sole M.C. appeared'rather at sea.
Boulanger has actually been wounded in a French
duel ! What a wonderful man he is ! I would so like to
know how on earth he managed it !
Woman is a weird and expensive creature when asked
to make up her mind by telegraph. For instance, the
other day a bold sea-captain (who is well-known in this
part of the world) telegraphed to the lady of his choice,
asking her to marry him immediately, as, if she refused,
circumstances would render a long separation impera-
tive. Then the foolish creatura added, “ Wire answer
yes or no. Reply paid,” And verily she did wire. Her
answer (whioh was, of course, merely an incoherent
jumble conveying nothing at all) oame in six Hundred
ivords, and it is rumoured that the gallant mariner said
something very forcible as he handed over the money for
a reply that left him just where he was before.
Summerhill Skating Rink and the Melbourne Exhibition
open on the Ist proximo.
Bridget again ! The other day, as a Sydney lady was
dispensing afternoon tea in her drawing-room to three or
four friends, in burst Bridget, and, waving a black and
greasy saucepan over the tea-equipage, and within an
inch of her mistress’s nose, said, breathlessly: “If ye
plaze, m’m, Oive burnt a hole roight through the ould
thing!” The same uncontrollable adjunct entered the
dining-room the other morning, and said, “Plaze, m’m,
there’s a jintleman at the dure.” “ Ask him into the
irawing-room, Bridget, and inquire his name, replied
her mistress. “Piaze, m’m, it’s a Chinaman wid veget-
ables ! ’ was the unexpected rejoinder.
At all Melbourne skating-rinks nobody is permitted
to skate with a hat on— caps being “ requested ” by all
rink managements. Consequently, the sight of a glassy-
top-hat bowling about amongst the feet of the skaters,
and tangling up the beginners until they lose their
hardly-maintained equilibrium, is forever denied the be-
nighted rinkers of the Cabbage Plot.
Never was an auctioneer's free-train so symmetrically
packed as was Sydney Criterion Theatre on the 20th inst.,
when most of the “ best people ” went to see the cam ing
through of the dual bill of “ Weekee-Werser ” (Melbourne
University accent) and “ Turned Up.” Women, I am
glad to say, who go to the Criterion, seem under a holy
obligation to dress as gorgeously as possible, and, as a
consequence, pretty costumes abounded. On Friday a
delicious bit of drapery was a soft grey tulle—the grey of
a light rain-cloud with the sun behind it—with a finish of
dull grey beads, gloves and aigrette en suite. An odd-
looking gown was of Jubilee red made high in the neck,
but absolutely sleeveless, producing the impression that
it was a walking costume with arms taken out for this
occasion only. Yellow tulle and satin slashed with ruby
velvet looked in better taste in the subdued light that
beats about a dress-circle than it would, 1 should say, in a
room ; and a white-satin and tulle with a bodice-edging
of pearl beads was nice enough to embezzle, wearer and
all. In “Turned Up” Mrs. Brough, as Sabina Medway,
wears a very pretty dress of ciel blue with full smocked
vest of surah to match. As Ada Baltic, Emma Temple
wears a cream flannelette boating costume, iitting like the
skin on an apple, and trimmed with rows of narrow gold
braid. Both comedies went excellently, and if, in
“ Turned Up,” we could have a little more Brough and
a little less Boucicault, they would go better still, I think.
On 21st inst. Cornstalks and Banana-men blended over
a dirty leather football at Sydney Association Ground,
and, after everybody had been upset several times, the
Cornstalks gained the victory. The day was fearfully
dusty, so the women didn’t dress much, and bagging
veils were plentiful. Indeed, one sketcby-looking youth,
marching along with three girls, all in black and
all closely veiled, looked like a Turk out with his harem.
Of the dresses which braved the elements and did the
lawn, about the best were: A green cashmere, iailor-
built, with dark-green straw hat trimmed, dark-
green and tan silk ; a peacock-green velvet, with bonnet
en suite, trimmed with silk and silver aigrette ; a seal,
brown cloth, with seal-brown three-storied hat trimmed
with ribbon and feathers (the kind of hat, by-the-by, to
engender strife in the stalls of a theatre), dark-brown en
tout cas, and tan gloves ; a heliotrope cashmere, pinked
out round the draperies with gold, and with vest of gold
embroidery ; a gorgeous gown worn by a highly-coloured
seraph was of crimson silk and velvet and passementerie,
with a screaming crimson bonnet to match ; and a youth,
whose legs were so bowed that they framed in a quantity
of landscape, unwisely paraded in a pair of green velvet
inexpressibles. There was no band performing on the
lawn. “ For this, and other mercies,” &c.
The Juvenile Fancy Dress Carnival at the Elite Skating
Rink, the first affair of the kind ever held in Sydney,
came off as promised on the 20th inst. in the presence of a
large number of able-bodied spectators and a brass band.
Our smaller editions on the floor turned out in great style
and every conceivable character. “Stockman” roused
me to quite a pitch of patriotism. “ Dorothy ” reminded
me so irresistibly of Nellie Stewart that I couldn’t help
wishing for Nellie’s face under the grey tulle hat with its
burden of poppies. “Uncle Sam” gave the lie direct to
the U.S. motto, “United we stand, divided we fall,” by
never once losing his equilibrium all the evening ; and a
girl in a slack-looking cream-coloured dress, with her
long dark ha ! r hanging, and chains from her wrist to her
waistband, wanted somebody to “give her a name,” I
think -unless she was an embodiment of Millais’ “Cap-
tive.” There were hundreds of others whirling under the
coloured lights, and I must compliment the children of
Sydney on the facility with which they can balance on
eight sliddery wheels and a glassy surface, with coloured
light being thrown on them in shocks, while their bald
and hoary fathers are clinging to ropes and sitting down
suddenly, or standing on their heads in their pathetic
endeavours to make rolling-stock of themselves.
One of the most popular officers on that dear old squat,
looking hulk, 11.M.5. Nelson, is going to commit matri-
mony next month —with a Macleay-street lady.
For the benefit of those tender-hearted Australian
women and girls (where are they now, eh ?) who
crowded Lady Brassey’s ambulance lectures to the door-
step and eagerly enrolled themselves as ministering angels
under the approving aristocratic eye, and longed to see
their little brother come to pieces just for the fun of seeing
if they could put him together again, I transcribe the
following anecdote. A member of the Ladies’ Ambulance
Corps was walking along the other day—not in this
country—when she saw a man knocked down by a cab.
As the man’s leg was said to be fractured she at once
volunteered to put the limb in splints. Failing proper
materials she borrowed from the sympathising onlookers
a walking-stick, a parasol, and about half-a-dozen hand-
kerchiefs. Thus furnished she dexterously set to work
and was rewarded for a skilful undertaking by the warm
praises of all present. On raising the sufferer, however,
it was discovered that everything wasn’t quite correct.
An investigation revealed, in fact, that the wrong leg had
been set, and, as a consequence, the splints and bandages
were calmly removed by an unfeeling medical Wretch
while the nonplussed Florence Nightingale melted into
mocking space.
Business-like sentiment from the S.M. Herald :
WIFE wanted, by widower, country farmer, good
position, good home to suitable person. Apply,
Genuine, Herald.
It has just struck me in this connection that if all the
husbands “ wanted ” were so advertised for the Sydney
dailies would soon have to be permanently enlarged.
Sydney reunions gave their third hop at Needs’ Rooms
on 17th instant, and, though there were many other
dances held in Sydney on that date, a large attendance
showed that these reunions remain first favourites for the
season ’BB.
Glebe Rowing Club concert, in aid of the Club funds,
came off on 16th instant, and, under the direction of
Mr. Charles Huenerbein, could not fail to be the success
it was.
Madame Crosmond, the opera-singer (a daughter of
“Beautiful-for-ever” Rachel), who shot herself in a London
hansom the other day, wore her oldest clothes on the day
of her death, and before putting the revolver to her
temple carefully removed her hat so as not to spoil it 1
Isn’t that typical of the inconsistency of a woman?
Saving her clothes and blowing out her brains !
Rose hill Racing Club held a race and trotting meeting
on the Uth inst., but very few of the fair sex showed up,
as the day was bleak and dreary, and even sealskin
couldn’t keep pretty noses from assuming a red and for.
lorn appearance. On the 28th inst., however, the Rose-
hill July race meeting eventuates, when I hope that
“ Queen’s weather ” and pretty dresses will signalise the
event.
I hear that a pensive peer of England who has sadly
condescended to reside in Australia for a good while past,
intends leaving for the Big Smoke some time next onth
to revisit his ancestral estates in Ould Oireland and to see
if the hereditary bog is firm enough to support a future
wife on. Who is destined to fill that position is now an
open secret, and I believe that the engagement will
shortly be formally announced, when the charming
fiancbe will be the recipient of many cordial congratu.
lations.
At a welcome tea-meeting soon to be tendered to a
lately-returned Sydney Low Anglican cleric, nobody but
the most cultured and best-dressed in the “little flock of
believers ” will be allowed to attend, although the poor
and needy have been largely levied on for subscriptions to
swell the amount which it is proposed to “ blew” in spongy
buns and weak tea. One kind-hearted girl connected
with the church subscribed largely, and, being charitable,
invited a poor washerwoman, who seldom (luckily for her-
self, don’t you think ?) sees plum-cake, to participate in
the bun-struggle. But when the committee (composed of
a dozen or so of “ Christian females”) heard what she had
done, jewelled hands were raised in expostulation, and
she was told that if that there charwoman ventured to
effect an entrance she would have to be ejected, as nobody
could think of asking the Rev. Blank to eat in such a
creature’s company, my dear. One or two of the ladies
concerned in the feast are noted for their beautiful
jewellery, which they will doubtless sport for the occasion.
Snobbery goes hand in hand with villa suburbs. At
a fashionable locale (just outside Sydney) where there are
two “ social ” committees, the one sent card 3 of invita-
tion to their first dance to the other (a loDger established
“ social ”) and the other caddishly sent back the invita-
tions instead of|accepting and not attending ! Thackeray 1
Why didst thou die !
The newest thing in American veils is a strip of fine
wire gauze. It is said to be as delioate as the fine tulle
we all wear to a woman. I must say that I don’t like the
idea, do you ? though, of course, ’twould be economical.
One would feel as if one were in a meat-safe, en-
veloped in wire to keep off the flies, and I’m sure under
such conditions there would be no distinguishing a leg of
lamb hung up to get tender from the classic features of
yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
A man blew away a number of his ribs in
an attempt to commit suicide at Williamstown
(Vic.), the other night, and a local publican re-
fused to supply the sufferer with brandy. It is a
difficult matter to “ touch ” a Williamstown boni-
face for a drink.
A man named Foley, at Broken Hill, to
win a wager, drank six pints of beer in six
minutes and died within a few hours. He is said
to have been a man of weak intellect —limited
capacity, we call it. The really capable men all
get into Parliament.
A London paper is our authority for the
assertion that an Australian jury lately returned
this verdict in the case of a man who committed
suicide by hanging himself to the bed-post by his
braces:—“The deceased came to his death by
coming home drunk, and mistaking himself for his
pants.”
They were passing a building near the
Corporation Baths in Melbourne. “ What do you
call it?” said one. “What, that?” replied the
other, “Oh, that’s the Home for Stray Dogs.”
“ Thank Heaven ! ” explained the first speaker in
a tone of gloomy resignation, “Home at last—
they’ve been telling me for years'l’ve been going
to the dogs, and now I’ve got there. We’ll have
just one drink before we part and then I’ll go in.”
If a man calls you a liar, never hit him if
you have been taking Marshall’s Tonic Nervine,
which so braces up nerve and muscle a 3 to make
even a weak man’s punch as bad as an iron-shod
horse-kick. The man who after taking the Nervine
hits his fellow-man and thus exposes himself to an
indictment for manslaughter is however extremely
rare. Marshall’s Tonic Nervine gives you so good
a temper that any man may call you a liar with
impunity.
Dear Bulletin : —According to Parkes’s
railway programme, £(i(j(>,000 is to be expended
shortly on a railway 34 miles in length from Bega
(N.S.W.) to Eden. What in thunder is it for?
At present Tathra is the shipping port for Bega ; it
is distant eight miles by the dirt road, and a few
thousand pounds would make the track one of the
best in the colony. Tathra, however, is only a
make-shift port, being almost unprotected, but
when the steamer is unable to get in it runs on to
Eden and calls on the return journey. Con-
sequently no one here is going to send his produce
on to Eden, 34 miles further away from Sydney,
merely in order that it may be shipped on board
the same steamer ; in this locality, at all events,
our produce isn’t in such a hurry to get to market,
and if the steamer can’t get in at Tathra one week
the farmers will wait till the next rather than
incur all the extra expense. And even if every
agriculturist in this district took to sending al
his produce to Eden, wheie they don’t want it,l
and shipping it thence to Sydney by the vessel
which would come along for it if they only waited
a day or two, one train a month would do all the
business of the place. The Bega-Eden railway is
compound, double-action foolishness of the first
degree—Yours, Bega.
Dear Bulletin,- —Have you ever seen a
youth learning to ride a bicycle for the first time ?
I live at Dawes Point, and on Thursday evening
there came along a tail, sober-looking young man
with a two-wheeler and a determined glare in his
eye. He took a good survey of the road, buttoned
his coat, and started. —
Round I.—Hopped from one end to the other of
the road; turned round, and hopped back again.
Round 2. —Hopped again, and then got on ;
travelled three yards to the gutter and came off.
(Bicycle had best of this round, being on top at
finish. Appearance on balconies of seven girls
and four men. Also gathering of smSll boys in
road.)
Round 3.—Got fairly started. Back wheel
bucked. Loud applause from audience. Damage,
split knee of pants, and two spokes missing.
Round 4.—Skirmished round the lamp-post, and
finally cannoned off kerbstone. Tyre off back
wheel, skin off nose and forehead, and one handle
bent. (Offer from bushman among bystanders to
travel up country and learn there in a quiet spot.)
Round 5. —Getting desperate. Managed to
ride across the road. Couldn’t turn. Fearful
smash, and scream from balconies. One leg
through the spokes and head wedged between the
backbone and wheel, both wrists sprained and
knees cut, seven spokes out arid fork broken ; tyre
off front wheel. Drawn fight.'
Ad. in Herald
TjrOK SALE. Bicycle; new ; only been ridden one
day. Cheap. Apply, &c.
Yours truly, .


Something New in Sewing Machine*.
THE
BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
WHAT IS THEBE SPECIAL ABOUT IT I
THE restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of
immense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our calling
s to relieve the home-mother of all that may weary
her in sewing, and to make the same throughout, a
pleasure. That we have during the last seven
years succeeded in so doing, scores of thousands
will testify. And to-day we are supplying a
machine whose range of work is absolutely com-
plete, transcending the hopes and dreams of years.
The construction and form are such as to place it
altogether above and beyond competition, for the
truth of which assertions, as of the following, we
humbly request that your own eyes may be the
Judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTON
HOLE MACHINE in one. There is no other in
this market. There is no other in this world.
The “Button Hole Appliances,’’ so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine,
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALE PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
as the Family Machine, but is expressly con-
structed and fitted to make Button Holes in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
a most wonderful actuating mechanism in the
head. All this is the subject of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by us for the sum
of £7500. The whole cost of the Machine, extra ,
be the public is, cash, eighteen shillings. , We
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
ful Embroidery; a herring-bone stitch for
blankets, woollens, or other materials; you may
. do over-casting or top-sewing—never before pos-
sible with Sewing Machines—as fast as you can
feed the work. And, above all, you can make
single barred or double barred button holes and
eyelet holes with the most marvellous precision
and perfection. Herein, the fingers of the
practised seamstress cannot with the greatest ex-
penditure of time and labour, produce work of
similar quality. And remember, the Machine-
made button hole, in addition to its beauty,
is inherently far superior, ' for each stitch
is Locked. Button holes which ought bo
embellish a garment, are often only a disfigure-
ment. Look at our samples and judge the effect
of fine work for yourself. By all means have
good work instead of bad, especially when you
can make six perfect Button Holes while you
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand.
Get a BEALE MACHINE, practise it—we will
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like,
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of
the arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods
to be sewn freely to pass underneath. This had
to be accomplished without increasing the weight
of the machine. In fact, the Beale runs with
wonderful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent,
all clicking sounds having been obviated. As is
well known, a good test of the finish of any
mechanism is its silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL PLATING.—In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones. Heightening the appearance,
these improvements also tend largely to preserve
the parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
the place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance
of former years. When closed it securely fastens
the cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure' our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
The BOBBIN-WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
We have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. No, the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing
machine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AID COMPANY,,
482, 484, and 486 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
S. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Batho'i Baking Powders, Orient Square She,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD & CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS,
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS, PERSIAN SHERBET,
&0., &o.
STEAM WORKS:
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
HE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Aot of Parliament, 87 VIo.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... 01,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves .„ £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BRACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest -
For 3 years .. 7 per oent. I For 1 year _ 6 per cent.
For 6 months 4 per oent. | For 3 months.. 3 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
Of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Head Offices— lo, 12 HUNTER STREET.
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
MR. NETL MACKAY, at one time canvasser
for The Bulletin, will please communi-
cate with this office immediately to save further
trouble. Bulletin Newspaper Go.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight in
gold. Send your full address, andwe will send Post
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Redfern, Sydney.
“ Australia’s ” Monster Consultations. July
Handicap, Rosehill, July 28, 1888. 4000 Sub-
scribers at 10s. each. First horse, £BOO ; Second,
£250 ; Third, £150 ; Starters, £250 ; Non-starters,
£250 (divided amongst them), and 100 Cash
Awards of £3 each. Also, July Handicap. 3000
Subscribers at 20s. each. First horse, £l5OO ;
Second, £6OO ; Third, £300; Starters, £3OO ; Non-
starter, £3OO (divided amongst them). The Tram-
way Handicap, August 28,1888. 4000 Subscribers
at 10s. each. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please register all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result,
Address “Australia,’ care of Mr. HughDalveen
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Offioe,
Georcre Street. Sydney. N.S.W
Business Announcement.
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS,
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wardrobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Veby Complete
Assobtment,
Many quite new designs,
Newton & Lamb.
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d. ; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
dL
PATEN
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
OANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spuing and O’Conneli, Stbeets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. longT Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 19 s. Verandah Chairs
Indian Long-Abm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven- Wire, bes
malna, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
MB WTO N and LAMB-
CORREPONPENCE
“Yindex” (Cobar): There are many safer
things engineered by better men.... “ Reality ": Handed
to Mr. Hopkins “E.N.S.”: The Modern Society par.
you send us re Lord Valletort and his taciturnity was
clipped from The Bulletin and now returns to Australia
sanctified by a sea-voyage “PJ.A.”: It was not the
present Bavarian king, but his brother, who was Lola
Montez’ admirer.... “ W.W.8.” :We don’t want clippings
from the paper named, which makes up its issue
from The Bulletin. ..." E.E.” : Fresh peroxide of iron,
in large doses, is the best antidote for arsenic-poisoning.
When taken at once it amalgamates with the poison in
such a way as to prevent the absorption of the latter. The
best antidote for strychnine is nicotine and the shower-
bath.W. Malinson”; Garrett’s reception into a
Government including Parkes, the man who charged him
with corruption, and Salomons, the commissioner who ad-
judged him guilty thereof, cannot be defended. It was
as immoral, unseemly, and disgraceful a proceeding as
would be the conduct of a Supreme Court judge, who,
after finding a prisoner guilty, took him out with the
Crown Prosecutor to have a drink in a public-house
“L.A.8.”: If somebody would patent, a contrivance to
fix some of those grand-ideas everybody has when just
waking, he would be allowed to put pro bono publico
at the foot of all his letters in the newspapers for ever-
more and nobody would gr0w1....“ W.A.”: It isn’t part
of The Bulletin’s mission to foment marriages between
Government House officials and young ladies who are
pretty and supposedly wealthy. You had better apply to
one of the daily papers “ ll.S.”: You can learn to
read and write French without a teacher, but you can't
learn to speak it without a teacher. Get “ Ollen-
dorff,” price about Os “ M'Kerresy ” : Good
story....“ One who grows his own Cabbagee ”: By-
and-bye, perhaps “Bally”: Is it original? ...
“ Backblock ” : Don’t you think it rather rough that out-
siders should claim to edit our paper, and tell us that
altering their paragraphs is an insult?... “W.S.J.”:
Sir Alfred Stephen is 86 “Nep”: Yarn to hand, with
thanks “C.YV.B.”: We note, as stated in your letter,
that you “ wrote your poetry without the aid of any one.”
We believe you. Your poetry looks as if written with-
out the aid cf any one at all "E.W.”: Mr. Abigail
is not Jewish “G. Smith” (Sydney): Thanks
“ W.A.M.”: Hopelessly crude.... “R.A.”: (l)Yes, if they’re
good enough. (2) On very white paper, in Indian ink
“ M.E.A.” : The chemical tests for the presence of arsenic
are so effectual that even microscopic quantities can be
detected;... “ S.H.R.” : The poor wretch’s vagaries no
longer amuse or annoy. The man is to be pitied....
“ W.H B. ’ (Carlton, Melb.): We are afraid the newsboys
wouldn’t take it up “ John B.” (Sydney): Thanks.. ..
“H.0.D.”: Excellent. Next wtek....“ W. Manton ” :
You complain be 3it He a boy who stole money was
flogged, while the man who beat his wife was not flogged.
Flogging may, under certain circumstances, do a boy
good, but it can never do a man good. In Australia it is
the fashion to abolish the birch in schools and to turn the
hangman loose on the bare back of the man.... “ J.S.” :
Now, really, don’t you think it was an impudent act to
yard up a deputation to ask that a thing might be done
which had already been practically done? Were the
deputation who waited on the N.S.W. Premier to ask for
the erection cf a statue to the bloodsoaked Governor
Phillip a set of humbugs acting a part, or were they only
a set of dupes who don’t know that the Government had
privately promised to put up a statue which had already
been ordered from a sculptor ? It is incumbent on the
members of that deputation to explain.... “ M. 0.”: Dibbs
showed rare magnanimity the other night, anyhow, when
he refrained from driving Parkes into a corner re the
Bailey job “Humanitas”: We are sorry to say we
have mislaid your excellent verses. Can you oblige with
a copy ?....“ Hugh W. 1.”: If not this week, then next
week. More, please....“ Sarah M.” : Your verses don’t
look very promising “A. M‘D.” : Too crude for publi-
cation.
An old man of 79 has been sent to Mel-
bourne gaol for six months for begging. He asked
for bread and they gave him a stone jug.
Boulanger called Floquet a liar. Floquet
challenged him ; they fought with swords. Floquet
was cool, Boulanger excited. Boulanger was
worsted badly wounded in the throat and hand.
Now Boulanger, who had dramatically resigned,
thinking to make a master-stroke by going for re-
election, has been beaten in contesting an As-
sembly seat. Boulanger is wiped out; Floquet
(who, by the way, made, the other day, a splendid
oration to the memory of Gambetta) is very likely
the coming man.
“ Eyeglass Bailey ” —name familiar as a
household word from Cooktown to Temora—has
got the N.S.W. Ministry into more trouble.
Parkes and Co. sneaked through the Estimates
under the high-sounding title of “fund to defray
expenses of addresses in England on agriculture
in N.S.W.” a sum of £240, which it now turns out
was simply a vote to enable William Henry
Leighton Bailey, Esquire (late of the Sydney
Sunday News, the organ which, under the editor-
ship of Bailey aforesaid, “ wrote Parkes into
power,” and which now, under the literary direc-
tion of the Escaped Haynes, shores up the old
man) to ramble all over England and air his
eloquence. When Bailey, whose political motto
when “at home” is understood to be “High
Church, high farming, high Toryism, and old port
for ever ! ” left Sydney ib was generally under-
stood that he had “ come in for a legacy,”
but that little Treasury subvention of £240 cast 3
much light on the thrilling and elaborate cable-
grams we have been reading in a certain evening
paper concerning Mr. Bailey’s eloquent lecture at
Warwick (Parkes’ original stamping-ground), and
how the local yokels (who were, no doubt, firmly
under the impression that Sydney was a suburb
of Pekin) “ passed a unanimous vote of confidence
in Sir Henry Parkes’ anti-Chinese policy.” The
Sydney D.T., whose proprietary appear to have
had some rather unsatisfactory commercial trans-
actions with Mr. Bailey, virtuously resents the
little job which has just been unearthed, and
alludes to the beneficiaire as “Mr. W. H. L.
Bailey, of insolvency notoriety.” Poor Bailey,
however, has, so far as we are aware, only been
insolvent once, while Parkes, the fellow who sub-
sidised him out of the Treasury, has been publicly
insolvent at least three times. But —no matter,
Many a man has thought he had found his
destiny until the honeymoon was over.
Kerry and Jones, photographers, of
George-street, Sydney, have sent us a very excel-
lent photo, of the Queensland Football Team.
“Lady Loch regrets that she will be un-
able to receive visitors on Thursday afternoons
until further notice.”—Melbourne Age. Humph !
A general Loch out.
An infant prodigy, now being exhibited
here, is said to have “the humorous element ab-
normally developed.” It is strongly suspected
that she writes the philosophical leaders for the
Age.
The N.S.W. Government analyst has had
six stomachs to examine during the last week.
Mysterious deaths seem on the increase in Sydney.
Efforts are being made to saddle the blame on to
arsenic and such things, but our verdict is “hash.”
Governor Loch insists that everybody who
attends the opening of Melbourne Exhibition “on
the never ” shall wear uniforms, academic cos-
tume, or evening dress. Ticket purchasers can
dress as they darned well please, but are respect-
fully requested to wear a refined sassiety smile.
Advt. from the S.M. Herald
T\rANTED, a Man for boiling-down and feeding
' ” pig's. W. , Blank-street, .
When the Herald publishes an advertisement,
before which Shylock’s demand for a pound of
human flesh sinks into insignificance, naturally
the next thing we expect to hear is that the pro-
prietors have started a Sunday paper.
At the recent Orange celebration in Sydney
an apology for ex-Attorney-General Wise’s non-
attendance was received. A few short months
ago, when the South Sydney election was pending,
Earagraphs appeared in the papers narrating how
Ir. Wise, through his sympathy with the Home
Rule movement, was obliged to leave a certain
Debating Club at Oxford University. Both an-
nouncements were probably unauthorised.


Amusements,
JJQYAB STANDARD THEATRE.
GREAT SUCCESS GREAT SUCCESS
of
Messrs. D’arcy Stanfield and Fred. Dark,
in their
MERRY THOUGHTS and HAPPY MOMENTS.
Popular Prices, 25., Is., and 6d.
Business Manager, B. J. MULLIN,
RITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT’S
very popular and powerful
COMEDY COMPANY
at the above
ELEGANT and FASHIONABLE RESORT.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
VICE VERSA and TURNED UP.
ADMISSION-55., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
4th YEAR of 4th YEAR
THTS GREAT COMBINATION OP ARTISTS.
Nightly CROWDED. Nightly CROWDED.
LAST NIGHTS
of
AUSTRALIA’S QUEEN.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager, F. E. Hiscocks
SYDNEY TAKEN BY STORM.
Hundreds unable to gain admission nightly to
witness the most UNIQUE AND REFINED
ENTERTAINMENT IN EXISTENCE.
lIISCOCK S and FRTEDMAN’S
NEW ENGLISH SPECIALITY COMPANY,
in conjunction with
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
Sydney
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. _ The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT.
Reappearance of
R. J. AGINTON, the King of the Rollers.
EVERY EVENING, at 9 p.m.,
until further notice.
Mr. AGINTON claims the title
CHAMPION TRICK and FANCY SKATER
OF THE WORLD.
'Buses will leave Wynyward-square every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bedford-street, Exhibi-
tion gates.
ADMISSION, Is.
B
OTANY 1 BOTANY! BOTANY 1
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
Grand Sacked and Classical Concert op
Well-known Artists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH
Director.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
COMPANY.
Managing Director—Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Skating ! Skating ! Skating 1
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Concerts by the best available Artistes
Every Sunday.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is.;
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stopford, Sub Manager.
B
ON D I
AQUARIUM,
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
HARRY STEGGA,
PITT-STREET, OPPOSITE POST OFFICE,
FOR
Gentlemen’s Outfitting in Every Branch,
lirts, Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
3 thing in the following makes Cashmere,
amb’s-wool, Indian Gauze, Merino, Natural
fool, and Professor Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary and
Hygienic Normal Wools (registered make).
ercoats, Macintoshes, Dressing Gowns, Patrol
ats, &c. Umbrellas, Portmanteaus and Travel-
; Bags, plain and fitted. Travelling Rugs in
Alpine, Mohair, Kaiapoi and Sealskin.
Moderate Prices, with Civility and Attention.
kVABORY abo Dkkswo-Roqh PaOTXOH':.
Amusement*.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE-
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison-
Doors open 7; Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45-
THIS EVENING,
at half-past 7.
LIGHTS O’ LONDON
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 bo 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
ALONE IN LONDON.
ALONE IN LONDON.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway's.
I*T EW OPERA HOUSE.
JJI Lessee, Mr. H. E. Werner.
General Manager, Mr. R. B. Wiseman.
LAST WEEK OF
MISS ADA WARD.
SATURDAY, JULY 28,
I The Latest London Success,
BRIGHT HOPE.
I The Oreat Sensational Drama
ADMISSION—4s. 35., 25., Is.
ASHFIELD GROUNDS
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
Coming Events :
August 4.—The Ashfield Athletic Club Sports.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
BRIGHT'i
BRIGHT
BRIGHT)
(HOPE
\ HOPE
[hope
a
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
THE MOST FAHSIONABLE KINK IN SYDNEY.
Still Another Grand Success.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
ADMISSION, Is.
Immense Success of the Electric Light, Incan-
descent, and Arc Lights.
Specially Superintended by Messrs. G. K. Kirk-
land and Co., Electrical Engineers.
SESSIONS :
MORNING, 10 to 12. Ladies and Children
AFTERNOON, 1 to 5. Free.
EVENING, 7 to 10.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band. Sixteen
Performers specially selected.
The whole Building brilliantly illuminated by
ELECTRIC LIGHT, Incandescent and Arc
Lamps, specially imported for this Rink.
The Illuminating and Decorations on the
grandest scale ever attempted in Sydney.
SKATES FOR SALE OR HIRE.
May be inspected on application to the Manager.
SKATING SURFACE :
The LARGEST and BEST FLOOR ever laid
in the colonies.
EXPERTS having examined the Floor declare
it to EQUAL the largest ever constructed in
America or England.
Skaters only allowed on the skating surface.
Special Accommodation for 3000 Spectators.
SEASON TICKETS
can be obtained on application to the Manager.
SPECIAL RATES for Ladies and Families.
~ ~ Ladies and Gentlemen
possessing Skates.
A LARGE and EXPERIENCED STAFF of
INSTRUCTORS specially engaged.
The Rules and Regulations of the Rink will be
strictly enforced.
NOTICE. —The Management reserve the right
to REFUSE ADMISSION to ANY OBJEC-
TIONABLE PERSON.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
R
ACING SEASON, 1888 and 1889.
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THE
PUBLIC.
J. H. WHITE,
(Member of Tattersall’s Club, Sydney and Vic-
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
175, PITT STREET, S DNEY.
J. H. White’s Weekly Circular of Current
Prices on all forthcoming events (as quoted at the
Sporting Clubs) forwarded Gratis to any part of
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name and
address.
T
HE DICKINSON ILLUSTRATED
LECTURES.
Under the Distinguished Patronage of His Ex-
cellency Lord Carrington, P.C., G.C.M.G.; the
Hon. Sir Alfred Stephen, C. 8., G.C.M.G. ; the
Hon. Sir Henry Parkes, G C.M.G , and the Mem-
bers of the Ministry ; G. W. Griffin, United States
Consul, &c,, &c.
SIDNEY DICKINSON, M.A.,
The Eminent American Traveller, Lecturer, and
Critic, in his Original and Brilliant Entertain-
ments. Endorsed by the Leading Universities,
Art Societies, Press and Public of the United
States. Superbly illustrated by powerful Oxy-
Hydrogen Steroptican. Assisted by Miss Marion
Miller, the Popular Dramatic Reader. Temper-
ance Hall, Pitt-st. (opp. Criterion Theatre).
Monday, July 30 —“The Moors in Spain; the
Alhambra and its Builders: Ferdinand and
Isabella.” Thursday, Aug. 2—“ Paris, the World’s
Art Centre, and its Great Exhibition of the Salon
of 1887.'’ Monday, Aug. G—“ The Art Treasures
of the Czar ; St. Petersburg, the Golden Capital
of the North, and its Palace of the Hermitage.”
Tickets, 35., 2s , Is. ; for sale at Messrs. Paling’s,
Nicholson’s, and Elvy’s Music Warehouse, and at
the door.
W. J. WILSON, Manager.
JpUZZLES FOR HOME FIRESIDE.
SPLENDID SET of 6, comprising the Railway
Smash, the Midnight Attack, the Sleepy Nigger,
Crossing the Desert, Shipping Disaster, and
Monster of the Deep. Sent free for Is. stamps.
Address NORTON WADE, care of A. LUSBY,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
THE
PLUM"
Razor.
THE
‘PLUM
Razor.
FOR Private Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground ; set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor, 10s. 6d.,
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
53T Nine Haircutters always Employed ! TsJi
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THH BRIGHTON OB' N.B.W.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Ball. Besides having a most rechcreht
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country |
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
oomfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de HOte at 1 o’clook daily and Sundays, No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminbteb to make her
visitors oomfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY
:ijji£T‘ T" ; i!
j •• s'" v i 5
2 V. I.X.
\
-i..
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Trade Mark —“ The Greenwich Observatory
Specially prepared from Ripe Fruit, and Is the best of
all Fkuit Salines.
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING,
A Preventive of Fkvee, Liver Complaints, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion and Sea Sickness.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Get It only at Grocers, Chemists and Storekeepers.
Proprietor i
WIH. PARBOWS, A.1’,8., Greenwich, England.
Agknth :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
3
NEW BILLIARU TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &o„ MADE ON THE PREMISES.
<old Tables re-fitted by our own men,
CLOTHS, CUES, BALLS in stock,also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS * 10WM
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, tittle George Street L SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Square, LMDOI,
GRAND HOTEL,
CORNER of MARY and MARKET-STREET
BRISBANE.
(Opposite A.U.S.N. Wharf.)
D. COSGROVE, Proprietress.
(Late of Lennon’s Hotel.)
THIS Hotel having passed under a new manage-
ment, great improvements have been made,
making this one of the Finest Hotels in the
Colonies. Private Suites for Families.
Ladies’ Drawing-rooms, Gentlemen’s Reading
and Smoking-rooms, Billiards, Night Porter.
Hotel Porter waits for all boats.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
supervision of a Continental Chef.
MECHANICS' INSTITUTE, SINSLETCN,
TENDERS are invited from DRAMATIC and
MUSICAL Companies and others for hire
of the Hall of above Institution for the two nights
of the Show of the
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL
ASSOCIATION,
to be held
22nd and 23rd AUGUST next.
The Hall is capable of seating 500, and the
attendance at last Show was about 8000.
Tenders close 31st July.
Apply Hon. Sec., Singleton.
FITZROY HOTEL,
BAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON,
Firsx-Class Family Hotel.
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Pstrate Sltting-rocm, without extra charge,
good Stabling. Every accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
10 RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
£60,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &c.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitfc-
street, Sydney.
D R- RUB3NEY
presents his compliments to
HIS AUSTRALIAN COUSINS,
and begs to say he will he happy to welcome them
again this season on board
THE “WONDER” COACH,
which last season carried safely 1934 Passengers,
and since October, 1880, has covered 03,785 Miles.
The trip to ST. ALBANS is a perf.ec i “ sensa-
tion,” and the lunch there is a “ blessed reality,”
fully appreciated by those who have a “Wonder”
Coach appetite. The Cathedral is one of the finest
and oldest in the world.
Ask at the Coach Office, HATCHETT'S
HOTEL, Piccadilly, for all particulars.


Business A nnouneements.
TJEEEI ONLY 1£»
HI
658 George Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
6 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and purchasers, will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others. ,
y
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. 6d. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 355.
~ ~ ~ ~ steel notes ... 50s.
Organ Concertina, inlwood box 21s.
c
'he finest s how of A.CCOKDEONS to be seen
the colonies from 10s. 6d. up to £5 at any
. ices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 30s. Od.
Patent Silver ~ ~ ... 325. fid.
Patent Steel ~ ~ ... 355. Od.
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Eittings, and extra set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s,
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Elute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents In Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’i
CELEBRATED
illll
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OE STRINGS
for the
guitar, Cello, Viola Double Bass, Bart
Zitlir, k, k
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5,6 or 7 „ „ „ £4 10/-.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
special lines, we at once despatch Instrument. In-
struments packed carefully and sent to any part of
the colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN, Manager,
658 George Street,
srVDNFV
The stand made by the Union Bank m the
matter of the land required to widen Pitt-street,
Sydney, reminds us that this undoubtedly wealthy
institution has had a trying hour or two in its
career. A generation ago, we remember, a
stampede was made up Collins street, Melbourne,
towards the corner of Queen-street, where stood
the head-office of the bank. An ugly rumour,
which proved to be unfounded, had gone forth
that the “ Union” was “ crooked.” About mid-
day a “ run ” commenced, and continued during
the day. The bank met each engagement m
gold, as the demand was made, and did
not close its doors until every claimant
had been satisfied. Some of the deposi-
tors took no heed of the scare, notably one,
a comparatively poor man, whose all was in the
bank. When the “run” was over and the
frightened depositors had returned with their
gold, the directors addressed a letter of thanks to
those constituents who had left their cash un-
touched, and, in addition to the letter, they pre-
sented the man above-mentioned with a very
handsome souvenir. Some years later, in conse-
quence of an article in the Age, then in violent
opposition to John O’Shamßssy and his party, a
steady run set in upon the Colonial Bank.
O’Shanassy was the chairman or governor of the
bank at the time, and whatever might have been
its actual position, each engagement was met.
Big John O’Shanassy himself mounted the counter
while the tellers were busy paying out gold, and
delivered an able address upon the politics of the
day, winding up with a terrific denunciation of
the Age, which had caused all the trouble.
SHREWDNESS & ABILITY.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters so freely advertised
jn all the papers, secular and religious, are having a large
sale, and are supplanting all other medicines. There is
no denying the virtues of the Hop plant, and the pro-
prietors of these Bitters have shown great shrewdness
and ability in compounding a Bitters, whose virtues are
so palpable to every one’s observation. —“ Examiner and
Chronicle.”
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all inseots.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
A Lovely and Delicate Complexion.— This is ob
tained by using Rowlands’ Kalydor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms ; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
A
<b.
£
Yi
o
V
&
£>
5?
V
O
:c
o
*
v
:>>
£
&/M>mL
o
:
&
*
V*
*5?
O
<< x
y/x
<b
:K
.<^6
o
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY.
FOR SALE.— Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
The R.M.S. Kaikoura has just steamed to
Plymouth from Wellington, N.Z., in 26A days. -
Mount Morgan shares have changed hands
at £l6 ss. on the Brisbane Stock Exchange—
making the market value of the mine £16,250,000.
On what grounds such a price can be given passeth
all understanding. A. determined effort is evi-
dently being made by somebody or other to force
up the prices sky-high in Australia, so as to justify
large financial “ fakements ” in London.
“ How much is a loaf of bread V y “ Four-
pence.” “Give me one.” “How much is a gill
of whisky?” “Eourpence.” “Well, give me
the whisky instead of the bread.” “ Stop! you
didn’t pay me for the whisky.” “Why, I gave
you the bread for it.” “But you never paid for
the bread.” “Well, I ain’t going to take it.
Want a man to pay for what he doesn’t have ?”
And he left.
The public are prepared to be more or less
mildly hoaxed by the “ special edeeshuns ” of all
or any of the evening papers, even by such
godly little organs as the Brisbane Tele-
graph and Sydney Echo, for there is an idea
generally current that a penny paper is a “ catch-
penny.” But it won’t do for the S. M. Herald,
which has the reputation of being a good old
grandmotherly, reliable newspaper, to bring out
any more special editions such as it published im-
mediately after the restoration of cable-communi-
cation the other day. “ Catch-penny ” may be
endured, but not catch-twopenny.
MAINE NEWS.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters, which are advertised
in our columns, are a sure cure for ague, biliousness and
kidney complaints. Those who use them say they cannot
be too highly recommended. Those afflicted should give
them a fair trial, and will become thereby enthusias-
tic in the praise of their curative qualities.—“ Portland
Argus.”
The Progress of New South Wales.— At present
there are 1407 miles of railway in operation ; there are
11,639 miles of telegraph wire ; 425 State Schools, with
1161 Teachers. These statistics, though of a miscel-
laneous character, testify to the growth and vigour of
this youthful colony. It is easy to understand amid so
many working classes and growing children, how valu-
able and useful a medicine is which possesses the pro-
perty of checking and curing those diseases peculiar to
New South Wales itself or incidental to life generally.
This however is the characteristic of Freeman’s Original
Chlorodyne, and has secured for it in New South Wales
a reputation of the highest character. No other medi-
cine has obtained a similar position in any other colony
and no colonists have spoken in higher praise of the
virtue of Freeman’s Chlorodyne than the residents, the
manufacturers, the shepherds, and the miners of New
Zealand. Its value in the Nursery and in Female Com-
plaints can scarcely be over-estimated.—Sold everywhere
throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having “ Free-
man’s ’’only. Reject substitutes as they are worthless.
Trade Mark, an Elephant.*
Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver Oil with Hypo-
PHOSPHiTES, is more reliable as an agent in the cure of
Consumption, Bronchitis, and General Debility, than any
other remedy known to medical science. Read the
following: “I have prescribed ‘ Scotts’s Emulsion’ and
have also taken it myself, and can fully endorse the
opinion that it is both palatable and efficient, and can be
tolerated by almost anv one —especially where Cod Liver
Oil itself cannot be borne— Martin Miles, M.D., &c.,
Stantonbury, Bucks, England/’
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated Tinder Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL, £500,000.
Reserve Liability, £112,322.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.,
The Company grant Advances upon Deeds and
Mercantile Securities.
Fidelity, Mercantile, and Contractors’ Guarantees
accepted.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
3 months, 5 per cent.
6„ 6 „
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months 1J per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
£EA AND EASTMRN MERCHANTS,
HO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
It
O*TB IMDEirrS
FOB ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE.
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
io:
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
_ for the boot and tailoring trades.
Ths Best Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents lo* the above for New South Wales and Queensland,
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing
Imported Leathers, &c.; and of the following Special LinesPEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH,
NUBIAN BLACKING ; Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents executed on Favourable Terms
Business Announcements
nuira
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS bo be taken bw®
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure In reoom.
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 31, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness reoelved b
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged bo take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney."
DOWS
EMBROCATION-#a i
m m
%
3
EVERYWHERE
'-v
JgjpWf
Row s Steane’a Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the fernale sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
Row’s Steane’s Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonio. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of Row 8
‘Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I consider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly free from any injurious
chemicals, too often used in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M'KILLOP, Analyst,
“ Sydney, December 23, 1881.”
Row's Steane's wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur
passed.
TRY THEM.
Hotel-keepers all keep
SOW S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW'S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS.
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
Sole Proprietors,
Sdward Bow & Company,
43, 45, 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


(THE Pu&licßE'
/ fy on.oe r_
t A R G,£
NoT/ti
kpeP
clear
\ /
+1
AMENITIES OE THE TURNSTILE SYSTEM.
GATEKEEPER • “HERB, OLD MAN, YOU CAN’T BRING THEM PARCELS IN
HERE. THIS AINT A HORSE-FERRY.”
OL1) GENT- “AH! I SEE I HAVE BEEN MISLED BY SEEING A DONKEY
ON A TREADMILL! ”
The Rev. Alex. Marshall, of Melbourne,
has thrown more light on the sulphurous question
of hell. Mr. Marshall informs us that hell isn’t a
black hole with the bottom knocked out, but
merely an eternal continuation of a sinful state of
mind. And now we are trying to understand
why Dives, a man who drank the choicest tipple
when alive, should be bothering Lazarus for a cup
of cold water to moisten his lips with. No, the
Bible must stand or fall by the good old-fashioned
hell which crazy Martin depicted on canvas many
years ago.
Dear Bulletin, — Three Chinese and two
Malays are to be hanged here (Geraldton, W.A.)
next week for murdering two whites and nearly
killing a third. It almost serves the whites right,
as they persist in employing these people. Up at
Shark’s Bay, where the murders were committed,
none but Chinese and Malays are employed by the
storekeepers and pearlers. The Chows are even
employed as shearers on some stations, and they
are gradually working their way into the interior.
On one big station they are nearly all Chinese,
from the carpenter down. Up at the N.W. coast
they are arriving from Singapore in droves, as
there is a monthly line of steamers running from
the latter port to Fremantle and calling at these
ports on their way to and fro. They have now
started importing their women up there, and the
Government, which is composed of a lot of broken-
winded old fossils of squatters, either encourages
them or is powerless to stop them on account of
this being a Crown colony. If something be not
done shortly the Mongolians will have complete
possession of this part of W.A. Judging from
the style in which the Chinese are coming over to
this colony, and their attitude whenever they find
themselves in a big majority, the time is not far
off when they will just simply massacre the whole
of the Northern whites instead of killing two or
three.—Yours, Jim Mullins. June 5.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg to notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES I
M. MELACHRINO & 00., CAIRO.
M. OADEMENO, CAIRO.
We Me now offering these exceptionally Oholoe
Brands of
CIU&ETTES, also FINEST BSAHDS of CIGASS,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices l
MT Note this Fbiob !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
“ SESOSTRIS ” Brand—in Tin Boxes of 100, a*.
SIX SHILLINGS EACH!
0W By buying from us you will save at least
16 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
II mmi STREET, S7DHE7
(opposite Savings Bank).
NOTHING LIKE IT!!!
FUN WITH CONCEALED CAMERAS I
The concealed cameras are designed for the use
of those who wish to photograph, without attracting the
attention of anyone, the interesting sights met in everyday
life ; such as picturesque groups, quaint figures and striking
facial expressions, where opportunity to sketch or to set up
an ordinary camera and tripod, arrange the focus, draw
slides and such manipulation are out of question. The
beautiful results obtained with these cameras, and the ease
with which they are secured, make it of great value to
Artists, Detectives and Tourists.
We have Reduced the Price of these instruments
considerably, and send full particulars of same on applica-
tion and enclosure of stamps.
LICHTITEE dc CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, AND
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH ST,, BRISBANE.
■
Business Announcements.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
the office, George-street, or from the runners in
the street.
Dll. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, eduoated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables nim to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
nim will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting; no Mercury used. He ill guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undert kes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—whe re there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorgaiio trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physioian
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES ok MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance oan, by explaining their troubles In
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Spkbr, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Offioe hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. onlv.
TATTERSALL’S
KONSTEE COUsDLTiIIOifS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
Town and Country Journal," also Brevities In
" Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s," oare
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tlokets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
GBO.fIBb.aB3L
ZHIB FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintain* it* Preatige and aland* pre-eminent amon
the hoata of other branda aa
XHK BUST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The nnderaigned are prepared to enforoe the
all peraona imitating the brand.
Law againat
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00.,
131 CLARENCE-STREET.
qbd. am
We have Large Shipment* of thia BRAND OF BRIAR
WHOLE t SAL*a'oNLY Re “ ~lM BWpmenU oom,nB fo|, "*rd
BRFKTO K’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ...
BRISBANE...
MELBOURNE
... 84 Pitt Stbeet,
...Edwabd Stbeet,
... Spenobb Stbeet.
JQ R. RICHARDS.
Send for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURB
for all Nervous Diseases; prioe, inolnding post-
age, 6d. In stamps. Consultation costa nothing,
and the Dootor will tell you at onoe whether your
case is ourable or not. Address—
OR,
7, SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
£jUT THIS OUT
As I have said, the capitalists are just beginning
to find us out, and now is the time for those who
wish to be first. Nor is it to large capitalists only
that we offer a wide and profitable field. A large
capitalist may do well anywhere if he has the wit,
BUT THERE ARE NOT MANY PARTS of the World which
hold out snch inducement to the small capital*
ist.” (Extract from Sir N. F. Broome’s speech on
West Australia.)
A grand investment is now offered to the Small
Capitalist in the
CARLTON ESTATE,
At Perth, the capital city of West Australia,
Large blocks, having from 280 ft. frontage, with
big depths, from £2O each. Ten per cent, deposit.
Balance extending over 3 years. Torrens’ Title.
Purchasers can pay off at any time, and receive
deeds (guaranteed at £2 ss. each) without delay.
The Carlton Estate, from its excellent position,
must GREATLY INCREASE in VALUE. It is only If
miles from the city. The railway to Albany passes
by. Bayswater Station is handy, and the Estate
fronts the Government road from Perth to Guild-
ford. The land is high; suitable for either build-
ing or garden purposes. It is, indeed ; the cheapest
estate yet placed on the market. Compare it with
others and judge. Government maps, drawn to
scale, showing the exact position of the property,
may be consulted at the office of the Company. A
few corner sites still available. Inquiry costs
nothing. On application marked plans, with
reliable information, will be forwarded to any
address. THE INTERCOLONIAL INVEST-
MENT COMPANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-
street, Sydney. (Registered under the Companies’
Act.)
W. J. DOUGLAS, Secretary.
CO.
T> RITTENBERG &
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs and Mouldings.
Faces in the Street.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They lie, the men who tell us in a loud decisive
tone
That want is here a stranger, and that misery’s
unknown,
For where the nearest suburb and the city proper
meet
My window-sill is level with the faces in the street;
Drifting past, drifting past,
To the beat of weary feet—
While I sorrow for the owners of those faces in
the street.
And cause have 1 to sorrow, in a land so young
and fair,
To see upon those faces stamped the marks of
Want and Care ;
I look in vain for traces of the fresh and fair and
sweet
In sallow, sunken faces that are drifting through
the street —-
Drifting on, drifting on,
To the tread of listless feet,
I can sorrow for the owners of those faces in the
street.
In hours before the dawning dims the starlight in
the sky
The wan and weary faces first begin to trickle by,
Increasing as the moments hurry on with morn-
ing feet,
Till like a pallid river flow the faces in the street;
Flowing in, flowing in,
To the beating of their feet —
Ah ! I sorrow for the owners of those faces in the
street,
The human river dwindles when ’tis past the hour
of eight,
Its waves go flowing faster in the fear of being late,
But slowly drag the moments, whilst, beneath the
dust and heat,
The city grinds the owners of the faces in the
street,
Grinding flesh, grinding bone,
Yielding scarce enough to eat—
Oh ! I sorrow for the owners of those faces in the
street.
And then the only faces till the sun is sinking
down
Are those of outside toilers, and the idlers of the
town,
Save here and there a face that seems a stranger
in the street
Tells of the city’s unemployed upon his weary beat.
Drifting round, drifting round,
To the scrape of restless feet.
Ah ! My heart aches for the owner of that sad
face in the street.
And when the hours on lagging feet have slowly
dragged away,
And sickly yellow gaslights rise to mock the going
day,
Then, flowing past my window like a tide in its
retreat,
Again I see the pallid stream of faces in the street,
Ebbing out, ebbing out,
To the drag of tired feet,
While my heart is aching dumbly for the faces in
the street.
And now, all blurred and smirched with vice the
day’s sad pages end,
For while the short “large hours” towards the
longer “ small hours ” trend,
With smiles that mock the wearer, and with words
that half entreat,
Delilah pleads for custom at the corner of the
street
Sinking down, sinking down,
Battered wreck by tempests beat,
A dreadful, thankless trade is hers, that Woman
of the Street.
But ah ! To dreader things than these our fair
young city comes,
For in its heart are growing thick the filthy dens
and slums
Where human forms shall rot away in sties for
swine unmeet,
And ghostly faces shall be seen unfit for any street.
Rotting out, rotting out,
For lack of air and meat,
In dens of vice and horrors that are hidden from
the street.
I wonder would the avarice of wealthy men endure
Were all their windows level with the faces of the
Poor?
Ah ! Mammon’s slaves, your knees shall knock,
your hearts in terror beat
Wheri'God demands a reason for the sorrows of
the street!
The wrong things and the bad things
And the sad things that we meet
In the filthy lane and alley, and the cruel, heartless
street.
I left the dreadful corner where the steps are
never still,
And sought another window overlooking gorge
and hill,
But when the night came dreary with the driving
rain and sleet
They haunted me —the shadows of those faces in
the street;
Flitting by, flitting by,
Flitting by with noiseless feet,
And with cheeks but little paler than the real ones
in the street.
Once I cried : “ Oh, God Almighty ! if thy might
doth still endure,
Now show me in a vision for the wrongs of Earth
a cure.”
And, lo ! with shops all shuttered I beheld a city’s
street,
And from the growling distance heard the tramp
of many feet,
Coming near, coming near,
To a drum’s dull distant beat,
And soon I saw the army that was marching
down the street.
And, like a swollen river that has bursted bank
and wall,
The human flood came pouring with the red flags
over all!
And kindled eyes all blazing bright with revolu-
tion’s heat!
And flashing swords reflecting rigid faces in the
street,
Pouring on, pouring on
To a drum’s loud threatening beat,
And the war hymns and the cheering of the people
of the street.
And so 'twill be while e’er the world goes rolling
round its course
The warning pen shall write in vain, the warning
voice grow hoarse,
But not until a city feels red revolution’s feet
Hhall its sad people miss awhile the terrors of the
street,
The dreadful everlasting strife
I or scarcely clothes and meat
J n that great mill for human bones —a city’s cruel
street.
Sydney, July, 1888.
HENRY LAWSON.


The Referee.
The victory of “Our Boys” over a strong
All-England Eleven is strictly in accordance with
Bulletin ideas recently set forth. Given a sticky
wicket where batting becomes a question of for-
tunate slogging and the field have but a small say
in the matter (being only fa the field for a limited
period) then the issue mainly rests with the
bowlers and the spin of the coin. The daily
paper “ blow ” over this unsatisfactory match at
Lords’ is calculated to disgust a cricket-playing
community. Australians are not all children to
be misled by such headings as “ Brilliant Vic-
tory ” because it was gained in a representative
match which figures prove not to have been a
fair test of all-round skill. We should have good
reason to snort with contempt if the Britishers
claimed that Leicestershire fairly and squarely
vanquished the Australians on their merits—yet
the Leicestershire and All England matches run
almost parallel.—
County .. 119 Australia .. 110
(win toss) 50 (win toss) 00
169 runs 170 runs
Australia.. 02 All-England.. 53
87 02
148 runs 115 runs.
In the one case, Rougher took 10 Australian
wickets for 71, and in the other, Turner took 10
All England wickets for 63. These figures ought
to convince anybody that cricket in the mud can
be made to prove anything—or nothing.
Turner has succeeded in turning the tables
on Ferris in England, the averages of the two
crack bowlers reading 10.3 and 11-.2 respectively,
up to and including the Sussex match. Turner’s
performance with the ball in the seven last
matches, played against North of England, Liver-
pool and District, Leicester, Derby, Eleven of
England, All-England, and Sussex, was a pheno-
The Reason Why.
[SUNDAY MORNING. HIS EXCELLENCY DRIVING TO CHURCH.]
FIRST LARRIKIN: “I say, Bill, wot’s the perleece a shadowin’ im for? ”
SECOND DITTO : “Oh, he wasn’t a very ’oly lot. when he was in Hingland, and the Queen has giv orders that the [?] has to see as he goes to church
reg’lar while he stays in onr country.”
menal one : 428 runs for 80 wickets, securing an
average of within a shade of 5.3 for the seven
matches. Spoffcrth, even in his Demoniacal days,
never equalled this.
* * #
Hon. James White's stake-winnings this
season total £16,788. Abercorn annexed £4170;
Volley, £3572; Carlyon, £3067; Cranbrook,
©595; Acme, £1405, and a hundred-guinea cup;
and Trident, £426.
* * •
The ways of the hackers of trotting horses
are peculiar. At Sydney Driving Park Club
races on Saturday, Little Dick started favourite
for the first heat of the free-for-all trot, and won
comfortably from his opponents, Doncaster and
Grey Echo. Notwithstanding the win. however,
Little Dick was not “fancied” for the second
heat, and Grey Echo started most in demand.
The run-off proved that the “ clever ” c'owd were
“ barking up the wrong tree,” as Little Dick won
comfortably from Grey Echo.
** . *
A Sydney paper goes into hysterics over
Samuels, and says the aboriginal is able to beat
any man in the world at all distances up to a
quarter, as well as of beating Hutchens’ marvel-
lous record of 30secs. for 300yds. Rubbish ! Even
in Australia there are men good enough for the
blackfellow at anything beyond a mere sprint.
When Hutchens was here we all guessed what he
could do with Samuels when he wanted to win,
and Hutchens, along with being on the decline,
never troubled to train in this country. His re-
cord for 300yds. was done when he was at his best,
and is justly considered the greatest athletic feat
of the generation.
♦ * *
The Duke of Portland, according to an
English paper, “put his foot in it ” in a speech he
made at the Jockey Club dinner on Derby Day.
He said he was glad to see the Prince of Wales so
ardent a supporter of the Turf. He only hoped
that H.R.H. would one day win the Derby him-
self. He was pleased to see him (the Prince) so
closely following in the footsteps of his illustrious
ancestor, King George IV., and trusted that he
would continue to do so. At this point Lord
Rosslyn, who was sitting at the end of the table,
leant forward and said, in a perfectly audible
voice, much to the amusement of the company
present, and the disgust of H.R.H. : “He forgets
that the illustrious ancestor was warned off New-
market Heath ! ”
* * *
A prominent rowing man in Toronto at-
tributes Hanlau’s defeat by Kemp to three things :
“ Partly to want of nerve and lack of applica-
tion, partly to the climate, and partly to the need
of a good staunch friend behind him who could
strengthen his backbone and quicken his heart
whenever the pinch came.”
• * *
A Sydney sporting organ recently fell foul
of an English contemporary for publishing a re-
mark made by a certain sport when he introduced
Bill Beach to Lady Carington. After much ful-
some flattery Of our Bill and abuse of English
writers in general, the Sydney scribe says : ‘ Such
a paragraph could only have appeared in a London
paper.” Alas ! it was originally published in The
Bulletin, and not very long ago either.
* * •
Cannon, of Stirling, Cummings’ rival, is
said to have run three mijes in 14m. IflAsec., at
Govan, Glasgow, on May 13th.
* * *
The Marquis of Queensberry comes from
an eccentric family. His brother, Lord James
Douglas, is nov in trouble for “molesting” a
young lady, a ward of Chancery. One of his
sisters is the well-known Lady Florence Dixie, of
men-in-buckram celebrity; and another was re-
cently married to the poor baker of an R.C.
Orphanage. Toorak was disgusted at the Mar-
quis’ sporting proclivities, and a gentle reminder
was thrown out that he should be more select.
• •
Now that their scullers cannot even take
secopd rank as against Americans and Australians,
Englishmen console themselves with pointing out
the deeds of their former champions. Yet it is
Erobable that the Kellys, Renforths, and Cham-
erses were never much better than the Bubears
and the Carrs. The sliding-seat, a purely Ameri-
can invention, has made all the difference. The
English champions used to slide on a fixed seat,
and for this purpose a piece of greased leather was
provided. Brown, an American, came to row
Sadler, and, noticing this, he forfeited, but re-
turned home with a good idea in his head, and the
modern slide was soon produced.
• •
Percy Flanagan, of Sandhurst (Vic.), find-
ing it hard to get a match on with amateurs, has
turned professional. He, however, only wishes
to tackle third-rate men. Well, Percy possesses
one grand-reoord. He is the most modest sculler
in the world.
• •
The increasing popularity of coursing in
Victoria is so marked that Mr. Cox, of Moonee
Valley, intends to give £lOOO towards a Water-
loo Cup, to be run on his ground next year. This,
we believe, will be the biggest event of its kind in
the world —if it is brought off.
• • •
In the All-England match, Turner and
Ferris were the only scorers of double figures in
the Australians’ second innings. They contributed
32 out of a total of GO, and followed this up by
taking all the English wickets (second innings)
between them.
* •
The young Earl of Dudley seems to have
already embarked on a wild turf career. He lost
heavily by plunging on the Derby.
• •
The feature of a recent Rosehill meet-
ing was a trotter named Bandsman. This
noble beast put to blush the most hideous print
of a trotter ever turned out by an American cari-
caturist. It would be hard to individualise his
most prominent points, as he was one mass of
them, and the rider of Chanticleer says he doesn’t
wonder his horse wouldn’t trot in the presence of
such an apparition.
The Mount Rennie Case.
The New South Wales Minister of Justice, in
reply to Mr. O’Mara, M P., says that he has
come to the conclusion that there is reason
to doubt whether the prisoners Newman, Miller,
and K°egan, convicted of taking part in the
alleged assault on Miss Mary Jane Hicks, “were
really at the scene of the outrage at all.” There
were several witnesses who swore positively to
that effect, and, “what made their statements
stronger was that two of the men who suffered
death, and who had no interest to make a false
statement, declared that neither of these three
men were at the outrage.” Mr. Clark did not add
—probably he did not know—that Miller, a boy
of 17 years, has been hanged, that Keegan,
after spending a year in the observation ward at
Darlinghurst, is now hopelessly insane, and con-
fined in the criminal lunatic asylum at Parra-
matta ; that Newman is considered to be on the
verge of insanity ; that Stanley, the chief Crown
witness, whose evidence from the very first struck
The Bulletin as being utterly and obviously
untrustworthy, was, after passing a forged cheque,
sent out of the colony by certain “very influen-
tial ” people who ought to have known, if they did
not know, that a felony had been compounded on
his behalf; that Wapiti Smith, the other Crown
witness, who had been run out of Ne v Zealand
for a turf swindle, after the Mount Rennie trial,
went into business in New South Wales
as a sly-grog informer, and is now in
gaol for three years for arson ; and that the
police suppressed at the trial certain evidence
concerning the character of Miss Hicks which, had
it been given, would have made her story not
worth a straw. “ Judge Windeyer,” we are told,
is “still considering the matter.” We dare say
he is ; we think well enough of Judge Windeyer
to believe that he will “ consider ” to the end of
his days the hideous mistakes he lias made in this
affair—the outrageous injustice which he com-
mitted in allowing jurymen to sit in court until
four in the morning listening to (or dozing during)
the addresses of counsel; the hideous farce of
beginning at 9 a m. to deliver a ten hours’ sum-
ming-up to a jury who, after sitting in court
night and day for 19 hours right off, had
only had four and a half hours’ rest. His
Excellency Baron Carington, also is doubtle-s
“c nsidering” the matter, and will continue to
“ consider ” it for quite a long while ; the Execu-
tive councillors who pig-headedly voted for the
colossal boy-slaughter will probably also continue
to “consider” it, in view of the way in which
bogus evidence was traded off on them ; and the
daily papers will likewise consider it — if
they have any conscience*. Will the com-
munity now consider the letter in which Mr
O’Mara at the time protested against the proposed
execution of the wretched boy Read, who was
nevertheless hanged with the rest: -
“ May it Please Your Excellency :
“ At ths late trial of the youths accused and convicted 1
of participation in the Mount Rennie outrage I appeared
as counsel on behalf of Robert George Read. At a.
critical stage of the inquiry it became my duty to protest
in open court against the manner in .which the trial pro-
ceeded, so far as it affected my clisnt. That protest 1
-believe to be so well founded that 1 cannot rest content
without prosecuting it to the very last stage. Hencs it is
that I address your Excellency. It is rarely that counsel
obtrudes upon the attention of the Executive that which
lie has already had the opportunity of urging elsewhere,
but there are times when to be silent is a crime, and this
I believe to be eminently one of those occasions. To give
a prisoner—particularly one who is being tried for his life.
—a fair hearing, it is not enough that the dry forms of
our procedure, humane as it is, be observed. The ac-
cused is entitled to much more. He always receives much
m~re. He is entitled to demand that undue strain
shall not be put upon the advocate in whose hands he,
so to speak, places his life. lie has a right to.
demand that when his defence is submitted it shall not
be heard by a worn-out and jaded jury. He has a right
to protest that at an hour almost approaching to m i-
night on the fifth day of a laborious and, to him, awful’
investigation, he should rot he called to enter on his last
attempt to show a jury that he should not suffer death,
and for a most atrocious crime. And when reminded of
the value to the jurymen of theirown time, he has a right
to reply, as Read did through his counsel, but without,
avail, that in the determination of an issue so terrible to
him the time of the jury is not for one moment to he con-
sidered, except in so far as it belongs, for the moment,
wholly to him on the one side, and to the public, his
accusers, on the other. When the question is whether he
is to die the death of a cowardly ruffian, and when he
asks, as he did, for fair opportunity to show that he.
should not be doomed to such a death, is it right, my
lord, that he should be told that the jury must not, if
possible, he * kept over Sunday ’ ? And is he to be further
told that he has had a satisfactory trial, when the most
solemn part of a criminal proceeding, the judge’s sum-
ming up, is delivered to men almost drugged in some
nstancis into a state of stupor by the unreasonable
exactions put upon the attention wlrch they were
so anxious to bestow upon the case ? Has he’ not a
right 13 demand that from beginning to end of this
nquiry, so terrible in its consequences to him, his case
should be heard and decided by men whose faculties have
never slumbered for one single moment? When before,
my lord, in a British community, has it been seen or
heard of, that jurymen have slept, or rather, under pres
ure of nature, have been compelled to sleep in open court
during an inquiry so awful in its character as to involve
the lives of eleven men? And yet it is a fact in this case that;
jurymen did sleep —dead, at times, in spite of themselves
to the very voice upon whose every accent they were sup
posed to hang for guidance—that of the presiding judge
It is demanded that Read be hanged because the crime in
which he was alleged to have taken part was unexampled
in its atrocity. If that be so, then let the care with which
his guilt is p roved, hut, above all, the patience with which
his defence is heard, lie in proportion to the horrible
nature of the charge levelled against him. Do not tell
him that those who try him must not he ‘kept over the
Sunday.’ Do not tell him that he is to make hi.s last
appeal for his life under circumstances which compel him
to make, and most justly, open and public protest. Do not
tell him that he was justly denied the request he made, when
lie had been for five day sin the dock, for a few hours’ delay .
that the jury might again meet, refreshed and more
caoable of giving that to which he was entitled as a
mo3t sacred right—the closest and most intelligent atten-
tion to every one of the few feeble words that were about
to be uttered for the last time on his behalf Do not tell
him that he was unreasonable when on the fifth day of a
prolonged and exhaus ,ing tria'—a trial without preced .-nt
almost in the number of men accused, without precedent
in its awful claims upon the attention of all concerned n
it, hecauss it was without precedent in the nature of t v e
crime charged, he asked at 12 o’clock at night that thor e
in whose hands he had placed himself—his counsel and
the jury —might have a few hours’ rest. He asked this
avouq my lord, and asked it, I regret to sa", in vain. If
there is anything, as your Excellency well knows, by
which British criminal procedure is nobly distinguished
from that of other countries it is by its humane and
jealous protection of the rights of an accused person
from the moment of charge to that of conviction. And
this protection is mercifully extended to him, and not, my
lord, as some people appear to think, withdrawn from
him, in proportion to the enormity of the offence of which
he is accused.
“ Some years ago, when the community, terror-stricken
by the prevalence in our midst ot a crime now happily
extinguished, demanded the blood of an unhappy young
man, Sir James Martin addressed to one of your predi -
cessors, on bihalf of the cause of calm and temperate jus-
tice, a stirring remonstrance whieli time has, I believe,
more than vindicated. I wish I could in the same noble
language deprecate ths unreasoning anger which in some
quarters clamours for the blood of Read, and which, be-
cause an awful outrage has been committed, w ill only be
appeased by a victim. It is terrible that the daughters
of our people should suffer outrage, but it is only less to
be deplored that the passion thereby justlv excited should
forget (as it appears to me to have done in tnis case) the
serenity with which English law loves to deal out its jur-
tios—particularly to those unhappy beings who are called
upon to answer for their lives.
“ I have notiing further to address to your Excellency
on the merits of the case. As it concerns Bead, it would
he an impertinence for me to sp’ak if your Exoellenoy is
of opinion that the manner in which he had been tried
represents the true spirit of that which we are alt bound
to vindicate, and on behalt of which I have presumed to
address your Lordship —British justice.
“ 1 have the honour to be, my Lord,
“ Your most obedient servant.
T. C. O’Mara.
Has time not vindicated the action of The Bul-
letin, which stood alone among the press in con-
demning an act of idle savagery ? Which is the
better—the American system, which gives a con-
demned man time to appeal fur his life—or the
Australian system, under which bovs are strung
up in hot blood and their cases “ investigated ”
afterwards ?
When Eyeglass Bailey stood for the Glebe
in the Shoddy interest he advertised that Park's
intended to address a meeting on his behalf. This
Parkes promptly denied through the medium of
an inspired paragraph in the Foreign-Trade organs.
Next day Bailey and Parkes met at Esst Sydney
hustings, when Bailey, despite the slap in the face
he had just received, went forward and in an
injured sort of a way, took Parkes’ hand. It was
a sight for the gods. “Lick his boots, Bailey!”
exclaimed a man who stood by. Parkes has some
steady friends—in politics. “ I want neither Mr.
Haynes’ support nor his acquaintance,” said he
the other day. And yet Mr. Haynes hangs on to
him like an oyster on to a rock.


Hotel*.
Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE,
Houses, Botenloel Ctarflenj,
*“4 Queensland Club.
riBa T-OLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
4o °OMMODATION for ninety.
* Writer meets every Steamer.
“Hr*
***“ Telegrams please address proprietor,
S. M. COLLINS.
{*** HOTtL, MlUlMiKk,
£ wconunodation tor commercial
?«•. (tKtaa 00 aed Others. Private sitting rooms,
JAMKS SIMONS, Proprietor.
Morgan hotel, Queensland.
Ex
Aooommo
From
splendid view can be obtained of
tA^ted
-*6B-' teals-
walk mountain of gold, and within a tow
OQaov,°.L~i e works. Passenger
fcSL t4 Uwav S aU y foom Rockhampton and
T^otth*fSSi W. MONCKTON, Pro-
of Monokton and Co.
1
'"Mann National Natal,
IW 20 BEDROOMS.
k, **»ownsa^^ een dutifully done up, and
c f, or 1)116 reception of visitors.
v 8t)0oJc «d with best brands
“aerate. Mrs. Heissk, Proprietress.
Hotel, Byrepie, QueenfauMi
SteStC B^, 01 th ® 0ld6 » t) family and
* Hot and Cold Baths
Proprietress.
t «r HOTEL,
Hi**
WA * TkUltiNUB, SPUNORM-SRrXNBr
§^l&teiy C^ onlBtr >g the above hotel, whic
al! . n& d anaddin™ „
b a t h 7v,a ot and °° ld batha
Jw tew IQ he * 1 ,,- ! l)a ? aen * er elevator,
SlS? as Bea f n d * au other hotel requL—
&S? Visitors can
p^°* 6arl y morning trains.
<*66, promptly attended to. Pri.
Prices ve
PETER WOODS,
°wner and Proprleto*
H
Hotel, aibury.
t ; , !l , wSu! beoome Lea.ee o»
-^ u hlic that every atten-
l; ls it i th « ve° b t management to ensi
ss* 1 ? cow, Best Accommodation p
S fi£^ ms *<* Families.
’tag, Biii;!' “womans.
a lU,aw, “ Tr ‘ and Cold Baths,
Magnificent bai
% best,'T ence -
■ WtC aQd «- N.S.W. and
J telegramß P 10 " 1 ?* 1 *
B °tOMONB. ProDfietos,
mwt^
*«©
**L
Zealand
REMEDIES
#5
■ Jfroxzt ms mmdsrt
O&r&gt f mj&o from erausej&i Uootom »xaa
.•' Mtndenm from SydneyMosp^mL
MONK’S PILE MIXIUKB,
Sa. fid. pel Bottle.
Ask for It and take no substitute.
It Is Invaluable oure, See testimonial*
V Diarrhaia
\ 84 *>r ail Chemist*,
%ir-
\
««•»«
%
mixture,
Sotwe,
"> "I? a than &Co
S*, 8 **!?' 1, SYDtmYI
Business Announcements.
E. 13 MILES.
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Minins Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWER , QUEENSLAND.
Ss2
9
«A«»MfTu*£Rl
«r|M»aK-Tt£RS or
:
&?<
»
or
HATS CAPS it
< —• —.
438 CEOACC ST
SYDNEY
UMBRIILLAS
RE-COVE R£o.
CJTUDY ECONOMY
and
u&ve your Umbrella Frame* (IN
covered, and your
Parasol* re-lined and made ttJMI
to New. at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street.
Brickfield Hill, between
Lirerpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasol* made to match eo«
tunics. Repairs neatly execnted
R
OBERT BUTCHER & CO.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out' of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
MANUFACTURING'HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AIL THE
. NEWEST SHAPES,
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
MUlFFtdXCieglllTlEi MINUTES.
3Bir *
BALSAM OF
HQREHOUND.
jw* Wjtjute tm C0B«th», Colda.
«* *h» Cheat
t,u>»», KMMfttimfu*
«■* rrwr Ani »» Mteto My
la tk» aanarjr to to Mnwiirtto, M «hlMi«n u* toad_•*
II IwmlMi it to tahMi f»«W#l ec«*«», nfr
hmmma to ««m, toad Ktftwm Weep en«ue».
to* litotoi tow mm total. V wwM am MWHMtohle
tobtotortito etoto toy ■
A. HATMAK A Oc. o*t* of Neat&X
11, Ar.entdam Sbt LtoWBOK, England.
PrtM la IJ4,| la M.» la ML. * 11a per bottle.
\ it*M m rt—> »mr ffiww fill procur* tt. r
CINAL
OR
T
BA king
\}W
WAUGH'S
&
AN D -OH.LV
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O R
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
■ V:
\
4*
5 fHE BEST INTHE.WORLDI!;
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUG HT-S
tfECEIVEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
P R. \ X E MEDAL
Manufactured byJamesChannom
HARBOURiSLSyDNEf
Sold by AH Grocers and Storekeepers
Business Announcements.
M
0 Bf O M « N T
in eranito, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Btillaei.
Deilgni aud Brtimate* forwarded on reqaeit.
4. C®3OfIJI«MAM,
MUMiJunMnaaKr. WTirraßDHWPffAjai, Bram.
8
a mmm meeicine.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
CH4
0
0
?&
PATENT
m
P ILLS
*
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-,
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervoui and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. This
is no fiction for they have done it in thousands of cases.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Bor females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
aa a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring about all that is required. No
female should be without them. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEECH AM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse mto ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion ot' the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills stand un-
rivalled; and any one labouring under any of the above
complaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the nest ever offered to the public for Asthmatic and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com
fort to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with any of the above complaints give Bskcuam’s
Couch Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be re-
moved. '
Caution.- The public are requested to notice that the
words “ Bkbciiam’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the Govern-
ment, Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills, If not on
they are a forgery. .
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d, each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.8.-—Full directions are given with each box.
nriHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
I Sydney Branchesi ,
84 PITT STREET, and 638 GEORGE STREET,
Paid-up Capital ... ... d 11,000,600
Reserve Fund ... 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canaan, nan offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers 5 Letters of Cred’t.
Drafts issued and Bills cc’looted on most favour*
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application,
N. F. GIBLIB Acting Manager.
SCIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE!
KJ ' IfcrlSSl
The Successful Treatment of
N'ERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense,
No Moke MERCURY ok other Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations,
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Ch. M., &0.,
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
♦♦ Victorian Progressive Medical Institute, w |
63, FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
for "the scientific and effectual cure of ail phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronio and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fite, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver,' Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. wit is curable, be
will tell you so: if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not-undertake a case unless he; Is confident of effecting a
oure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated, equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that I do not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I.claim only to be a skilled and successful Pbysioiaa
thoroughly informed in my speciality,
Note Address—
mmrnn xebisr mums,
63, Flinders Street W., Melbourne.
MT No connection with any other Medical Institute in
Australia. Box 263, G.F.Ojt
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
I#;;
1) lit
iMuwy
iwS
•ItllW
m
4VS!»'
••'AiMfc&wUWs** ?r
' IUC -"*>> ..utumliMumiP" \
Him
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AUENTS,
V. BalcMn, Johnston & Go.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney,
|KgB
"\ITE can recommend the Imperial Haw
▼ ▼ Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane,
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address-
Temple Building, George-street (six doors
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D R 'RIDGE’S
’ FOOD
INFANTS invalids
Has an enormeui sale in England,
inti is now b«mg i*> lroduceo tiHv th£
Colonies.
*£v«ry Store keeper should goia supply,,
as ovary wise mother will certainly
; iu>f it.
OR. JUDGE’S ROYAL FOOD hi ILL. A,
LONDON. ENGLAND.
s
JK
am
am
rj
<5
H
uureRA
pit
HI
m
CHEST AFFECTIONS
AND
ALL
m
G. STEPHENSON
HAS ON BALK-
WINK CASKS, BREWERS* CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
.CHEESE VATS, CHURNS STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE,
38? KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market Streets, ai i m
Mosstwhe *aa wkhkwi, area*
Heard Elixir did thie, t
and uHU do it on either bald 1
'head or bare face- JFomet ,
heavy Mouetmm in from a to l
t mete 'and never .
Qepl/righted. young mm afesady wtmr futt MIIXS
beanie, having wad 1 to 3 phti. Me injury, eatilv applied, txrtMm
in effeet. Packete, l«. Ud. each, 8 for 5,.6*, peel paid, tmi muter
timer,.free.from obeervatim, AMreu, Fra»k Bonitliw, Bolt Agent,
B<wfm L 3,r.o,„S!,ftmr, tr.a,vr ..
s
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin MiMI
« *9fi PITT STREET,
T Marquees on Sire
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others forits lasting and i
fragrance.
Tbhk* Goto Mklsi.s-
PAXUS.WS; CALCUTTA,USBL
for' pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’S Newest Terftwnes
are oFr^reltwPple
RRH. | . „ | aid being
registered can he obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON'S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth and
improving the appearance os the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harwieM
mmssmtMm.
terchief, distilled from the choicest exot}c*
taisid-*
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotjcs.
Of all Dealer), and of the 'Mam*faeturfrt*~
1, A JS. ATKINSON,
2i, Ota Bono S»»u*, Boson's,
Mark-"White Eo**”onGuides ,
Lyre."


ROYALntU&I
&4KIM C
POWDER
Absolutely Pure-
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rollß,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, Baleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. Bn*
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists-
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome* Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powdeb Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
New South Wales.
—2?_ IS- 3 - c^ILITIIT —
ISKPOBTWS Of
jar w i isr 3u s, spirits, beers, «bO-« &o m ■•»
George and Glppe Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:—
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
.-.(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
4NT The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. car All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales’ Hotel, 778 & 780 George-street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
car SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIIST-EIiSS [MIES' IEFIESIEII EDOM ui IMitIET,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdebn & Sons).
Produce Stores ■ gippsTstreet and darlinghurst road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales' Hotel).
WALL&CH BROS’
xt saw
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, STYMY ARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melboarna, and Landnn.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICK LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
wmm, viol raa>
For Artistic Posing and iM
combining softness an *^ U
Photographs oi -
SHASLEMDMf * *
ROYAL ARCAOS,
STAND PRB-BMINBNTL*^—^
CoLzMUHE & *'f
EtTCALYPTB O IJi
Victory o?2f-
ft. Pure Bxtraot from the
-- ■
Awarded GOLD 0, aM
beating all other f 0 ™ P blbl6 ion,
:st Prize Great Centennial L
Can be used for
shitis, Rheumatism, Neura b * Q o idB,
md Gravel C nnplamts, Spwg*
Jout, etc. Posted to any^ dd J* pB A. ,j,
rurci ~lbt j 7
L.R.C.P., Bdin., L * K * o,S '
zessss&zs***,
md Heart Diseases. &o. persOffL J
Consultation by letter v ® g, Bl# b ’ 8
iharge, at Edgar House, W*
lunter-street Sydney.
Mgnised by thousands of
ments of humanity 'heir f?
srnieed. Fullest Jl{
ery disease I? SUFFKB. ydfcfy
itured only at 78 N»w Oxrow m (f
asers should look *® *?!*£.,j.gtte«L HU*®"?®
the address I* not 6SB Oxfor
urious.
WILLIAM BULLARD. 342 GEOKGE ST
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
Fans, Easels, Brackets, Purses, Card Cases and Japanese Curios
9 7 TiAT.T. PRfia'RAMMT.S
DESCRIPTION.
BALL PROGRAMMES.
CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING
OF EVERY
■A-lla/n. 2v£arslb.a,ll do Co.,
ENGINEERS, COPPER SMITHS, BRASS & BELL FOUNDERS,
FINISHERS, PLUMBERS, GASFITTERS,
SHIP & GENERAL SMITHS, ART & MEDIAEVAL METAL WORKERS.
Roller Skates, any make, with Brass or Wooden Wheels,
jar Agents for “Verity’s” Patent Gas Fires and Heaters at Greatly Reduced Prices.
Cheapest and most satisfactory fire in the market. Over 11,000 already in use.
Yacht and Boat Work of every description in Iron or Breuss.
Ships’ SINGLE and DOUBLE Action Valve Closet. Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS,
9 MACQUARIE PLACE and STANMOEE EOAD, PETERSHAM.
Tl >‘
INDIA RUBBER MANUFAC-. .
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
: n: - Rubber g OO^9 f °
Rubber Valves, Washeks, Goskets, &c., &o. Moulded to any size,
Lists and Samples on Application^
L 1
f
ERV O U
S
FREE
D E
MEDICAL BOOK,
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in P*
~ " k onTSELF-CUBE FOB
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book ont Self
Diseases, It gives special advice to all kind of Bufferers. Addsess—
t gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Addsess ||«|
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herba»’ 0
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW
V*
*
Gh PICKLES SOLTS, Cstrxistgre B-u.U^ 0,
<sr
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA. TBt
City Repository: -5, 7,9, 11 LATROBE STREET WEST,
Metropolitan Manufactory; - 32, 34, 36 BRUNSWICK STREET,
mei-b?
FITZB
u* 1
0*
H
w
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY^
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for SFtt'l
BMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period or in the Event of Survival, '
PREMIUMS
IN; TONTINE SURPLUS.
Mr Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
LEA&PERRINS SAUCE
In consequence of Imitations of TH& WORCESTERSHIRE
5.4 VGE which ate calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have ta request that Purchasers see that the Lahti <**» evetjr bottle
hears their Signature thus**
without Q>hich tio Settle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine <
disk for LEA and PERRIES* Sauce, and see Rome on Wrapper, Label, Bette and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester /, Crosse and
Blackwell, London, fsTe., tpC. t and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Aupam* Mtmxrxxm Atm * cd^.emtow
TEETH LIKE
PEAR^I
white and sound teeth, .
'hilly fragrant breath can belt
sad ruing daily
perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of th* *Bs
m belt be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powdars
»«to
m Pearl Dentifrice, a white powder
> from an;
HHL - t composed of the most recherche ingredient*
Herbal, and warranted free from any gritty or deleterious insrredient*; jt wMJJJ
(fflje teeth
»
ijastes can possibly be as efficacious forjpolishing the teeth, and
*on-gHsty toott powder: such BOWCANDB’ ODQNTQJtiaa i
whiten*
No other *odonto is genuine
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL .
>«*r and golden-haifed people and children,
ROWLANDS' KALYDOR beauttfiee the oomi
and renders the Ikin mrooih ®ad
art' ■«* of 'jo Hatton lw»n«o», madfttoWl sra®pte«s
Wholesale and Retail Agents — Elj,iott Bbob., and E. Paosa***
*3T ROTHERHAM and ENGLISH VVATOH jCOM PANT'S SILVER ENGLISH PATENT LEVERS from 70s.
WIESENER'S WATCHES! WIESENER'S ,
os (in sterling Silver and Gold cases only) are j f t^y
Shops, where the only aii i can be “ to get the S
wTfZfHAM WAT_.
WIESENER’S WATCHES!
H.VVE proved a ‘success as U ieful and Reliable Timekeepers these 2D years. The reliable lines of the cheaper class W.itcho
and the ’Public *can rely upon being served better and cheaper in the long run than in Ironmongers or Toy
W
Remember the Address—\ ~~
T, F, WIESENER, Watchmaker, Jeweller and Optician, 334 Syinsy (half-way between Hunter-street and Post
