

THE ATTENTION
■ of the Medical Profession, Consumptive Invalids, and persons with Weak Lungs and Chests is respectfully drawn to
• CC.E3SHKMTB’ SPJESPVCtnrXZHESD
EMULSION
OF
Pure God Liver Oil With Hypophosphites.
REASONS
B WHY CLEMENT’S EMULSION SHOULD BE PRESCRIBED
■ "CAUSE it is an Emulsion, a simple mechanical mixture, and not a chemical combination.
Bs CAUSE it is easily digested and assimilated, the Emulsion does not change on contact with the
stomach fluids. _____
B ®CAUSE the patient derives the full therapeutical benefit from the entire dose of oil, as the Emul-
sion does not change until digested, every particle of oil being thus assimilated.
B fiCAUjSK of its pleasant taste, the presence of Cod Liver Oil cannot be detected by the most
fastidious, palate.
Bj SCAXJBE of the large per centage of Cod Liver Oil it contains, one-half of its bulk being pure Nor-
w ®Bian Cod Liver Oil.
"'CAUSE of its known composition, the formula being supplied to any registered practitioner on
Application.
B ®CAUSE it is prepared in the colony, which prevents any deterioration such as these delicate pre-
nations are liable to during a passage through the tropics, &o.
WHY OTHER (so-called) EMULSIONS SHOULD NOT BE PRESCRIBED
they are not Emulsions, but soaps, the oil being saponified, has lost most of its>irtues.
BECAUSE they are decomposed on contact with the acids of gastric j aloe, on acoount of the neu-
tralisation of the alkali used in their preparation,
BECAUSE, when the Emulsion (?) is decomposed the oil is indigestible by delicate stomachs, as in the
dyspepsia of phthesis, &c., when the oil is voided unchanged with the f meal matter without* be-
ing assimilated, consequently the patient derives no benefit.
BECAUSE most of them are rancid on being opened, the nauseous taste of the oil is very imperfectly
disguised, causirg unpleasant eructations for hours after a dose has been taken.
BECAUSE many do not contain more than 35 per cent, of oil, some not more than 25 per cent.
BECAUSE their composition is a secret, leaving the medical man in the dark when prescribing,
BECAUSE many are foreign preparations, are made in cold climates, are stale, and have mostly been
so long made that they have lost any valuable properties they may onoe have possessed.
Clements’ EMTJZiSIOIff
IS UNDOUBTEDLY THE BEST.
IT IS
EXTENSIVELY PRESCRIBED
BY THE
Most eminent physicians of Sydney.
THIS IS
THE BEST PROOF OF ITS THERAPEUTICAL EXCELLENCE,
—
PRESCRIBED AS, EMULSIO MORIUIU/E CLEMENTS.
City agents:—W. H. SOUL & Co,, Pitt-street. Obtainable at all chemists, &c.
PREPARED ONLY BY
l M. CLEMENTS, CHEMIST, NEWTOWN, N.S.W
The Bulletin


ITITITIP t JrrHUWT!ir«f«ICIVfOST TOE
W.H.PALING &G™"
356 GEORGE ST SYDNEY.
FiftMORGANf MUSIC IMPORTERS,
+* Uf9e$tj«ottin4fcreatestVariely in Australia -flvtnj the
ktfcjjkthe wTdes1Fposs»t>te choice froinjto, OROANSProm < £'l>-
* PAYMfjft «v INSTALMENTS To SWT AU CUSTOMERS
VHWS li 6 PALING iv 0 PALING & &
ARDMAN BROS
GoutfurSrxvr,
Trlacu
E22S
1
RfTf/VfffS
esro
terse
m
CONTRACTORS
uDmE
fgjtfi Office & FACTORY. HfWTOWN
BRANCH. CeORCf SI. SYPHTY
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
HH!An OFFICE i CORNER of MARKET and
YORK STREETS. SYDNEY.
Ikcobfokated by Act of Executive Council
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS-
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A,
J. F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Ksq
John Scott, Eaq.
Arnold Mathey, Eaq
Last Dividend paid to Shareholders at the tfate of 12£ per
(2 per cent.]
(I per cent I
The Bank transact* all usual Banking Business, Current
accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and makes Advances
upon all kiLds cf Commercial Securities. Agencies in 'Lon-,
don and throughout the world. Overdrafts granted against,
deposits of Deeds. Deposits received. Interest .allowed:—
At Call, 4 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
cent. ;12 months. 7 per cent. By order of yie Board of
Directors. H. M'KAMARA, Seererary.
THOS. BUUELAND,
■IISINO. MACHINERY,-AND GENERA!
OHABTERB TOWIBS.
A&ent tor Robe, and Co., Engineer*, Lincoln i
„ „ Langland'* Eonndr, Co., Melbourm. Vs i
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION ABIM.
Minins Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWERS, QCEEKBIAi t
; ' ; v -
TV.
i-
E r
STUDY KCONOMY
and
Hate four Umbrella Vranet re
entered and four'
Paraiolt re-Uned and made eqna
to New. at
J, SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
idterfcol *nd Bathnnt Street*
Baraioit made to mr.toli tea
tame* Retrain neatU, exanaMd
T ILLS’ HOTEL, Mack at, Queensland.
EDMUND DUNNOCK, Proprietor,
travellers and Families will find the old well-
(Mini reputation maintained.
T ilfiP KRIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
te ol Mnswellbrook and Rockhampton.
ttt First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
ALFRED LISTER, Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies.
Replete with every comfort and convenience of
modern times for the travelling public.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, GympieT
Fibbt-class Accommodation bob Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F. E, STEWART, Proprietor.
GiTTH3EIISrSIj-A-3Sri3.
Millar, carter, and co.,
FShipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office. —227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency.— John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay. ' ,
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street. ,
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
RO'B ERT BUTCHER & CO
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to ___
592 a GEORGE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, ,in and out Ol
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
Belle Vue Hots!
PPPOBIte Parliament Houses, Botanical iMittHUi
and Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTII.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 81.
A Waiter Meets Every Steams*,
eti-rs and.l telegrams
Vrletor.
pleass addtass hi
f. k, OOLUNf.
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner of Stanley and Melbourne Streets*
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
jgIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
wp, situated comer of Gill and Church-streets.
. W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To a,! Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tio-
Dolobeuz, Aching Pains in tike Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why suffer bhose excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Rel ief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 65., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE'S CELEBBRATED EYE LCTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling smd Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faoulty bo.be the safest and best manufactured,
Prepared bf the Sole Proprietor,
fi, 1, ROSE. PtanaoßUtical Oiumlsfc,
asi only.
SW ALDER, Tent, Tarp auiln, Oilskin Maker
4 296 Pitt-street.
m.
m
m
TaAPflt/Lte* Qhaai* **u> A<rc UaKtM
Q 36 A*r i SJ '
Marquees on Hire.
ORIGINAL:
OAK INC
%
&
<9
OBTAIN CO A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR .
HIGHEST DECREE OF MEHII
ISTHE3ESTINTHE WORLD.!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUC H*S
RECEIVtOTKt *NT£RNATIONAL
PR ITE M ELD A L
IdAflufAcrußtD byJames CHanmou
Harbour <S r sronir
SddbjrAl) Croce7»Aodsrar6h«j>ir>
i:
V
.*■
5^
DIXON & SONS
TOBACCC WORKS,
SYDNEY.
|~\IXSON & SONS’ CONQUEROR FACTOR!
not only manufactures MORE TOBACCO
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES TBS
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF
Into New South Wales, and hence the great B*l*
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tobacco I®
Australia,
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, CHAMPK#
gold leaf,
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTUB&
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No I machine mad*'
10,000 per hour, the choicest Virginian lea*
and Paris rice tissue, W "U size sold by a#
retailers at 3d. per packet of 10 cigarettefli j
IMTCaTZET’S
NEW ZK AI AND.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TESTIMONIALS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospit*
w Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Studentsifrom Sydney Hospital
MONK'S
File mixture.
2i. 6d, per Bottle.
Aik (or it and take no aubititnte.
ii an inraluabie cure. See tartlmoniali,
3VLO3STE:=e
Cholera, Dysentery, Biarrhcee Mature,
A positive mre. Sold by all Chemist*,
is. 6d. per bottle.
IMOITK’S
NEURALGIA MIITUPE,
2s. m per bottle,
[Sole Agents i
MATHEY, NATHAN & 00.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
44 Little Collins treet East, Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL
‘GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Centra/. Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
■' TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. BiLiards (Alcook’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brand&, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junb., Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
{FORWARDING AGENTS,
Haafl Office! lownsYillej. Queensland.
G. S. OURTIS,
Auctioneer. & Real Property Salesman,
ROOKHAMPTOK.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
R. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling publlo that
he has gone to Monnt Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, whioh will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and faoing title celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within Qve minutes’ walk of the Hotel, Coaches
DAILY EROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
MICH AIL BOLTON
(Of the turn of Lowry ft Bolton),
S U, N BURST HOTEL,
it ''./ MOUNT MORGAN.
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER
Bate* labour, itattoaerg, Itu, writing wnoh huter
than assert sen-Mtn, and aundenalng waiter to leu than
one-half the isaee oaenpied bg pen writing. BeantUul
iowm ■>) be taken in the nanal wanner in the toiler pretr
Bold whototato and retail bs the tole agenta,
•KRAY ft OOtf
•HJEant-itraalb
c
WAWDFACTUAERS
§ IMPORTERS Of
P“— I ~
HATS CAPS it
438 CEORCE $T
SYDNEY
*»■ 1
$
Irtl
0*'
£
T
10 PERSONS RESIDING IN THE COUNTRY
OR THE ADJOINING COLONIES.
If you want anything in Sydney, send to 'i
R. GIBBINGS & Co.,
C3-E1 JNrTDRjLH, AGENTS,
OF
323 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
ALL KINDS OF BUSINESS TRANSACTED A 1
THE VERY LOWEST RATES.
M
OUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QNEENSLAND-
Under the distinguished patronage of His E*’
cellenoy Sir A. Musgrave, K.C.M.G. Acc'omniO'
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey buildings. Frog
the balconies a splendid view can be obtain
the celebrated mountain of gold, and within
minutes’ walk of the company’s works. Pa;
and'mail coaches daily from Rockhampt
Kibra railway-stations. W. MONCICT
pritor. of the firm of Monckton and Co.
MOTJNTIMpRGA
QUIEIBLAHU NATIONAL HO!
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done
is now ready fop the reception of
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best!
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HEISER, Propi
JM’S PEINC& OF WALE'S H<
ST, RILDA.
mills first class Hotel offers superior accor
JL tion to visitors and residents, being in a I
and central position, fronting the Bay, m
planade, and Baths, and within five minub
of the St. Kilda Railway Station Private
of apartments. Ladies’ drawing room. Gentli
smoking-room. Hot and cold baths
extra charge.
BLADE’S LABOUR BUREAU,
4 and 5 CORRIDOR,
TATTERS ALLS BUILDINGS,
Hunter and Castlkreagh streets,
. I/V IH M 1 M (
Owing to other engagements these Premises! 1
LET, Furnished or Unfurnished, with immediate
entry.
IpfrjSydnet/*
JCNOLAN
BI6IIEQRC& Siacrwaw Jiuttrtß STaC.&Q*
due//Ae
SVWSi
MACHINERY.
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BGILERS
fIIMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
AT
LOWEST COST!
CRANES
AND
hoists
ENGlhti*
LAWS*
MOWERS
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGB, LAUNCHES,^'
ESTIMATED POR COMPLETE.
ROBERT COOPER WEBSTER
SOLE AGENT
Sydney:
111, Pin STREET.
Melbourne t
22, KING STREET*


The Bulletin
Vol. B—No. 414.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 7, 1888,
Price., (ML
THE HAIRY BISMARCK.
THE BARBERED LION.
THE HAIRY BRITISH LION.
THE BARBERED BISMARCK.
Hairy Humbugs: or, the Power of Mane.


" THE BULLETIN ;
The Hational Australian Newspaper,
Pbopriktobs i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO 1 ,
Limited.
THB
CENTENNIAL BULLETIN.
+
TO AGENTS AND READERS.
The 26th day of January, 188S, being the
100th A nni versary of the day when our fore-
fathers landed at Botany Bay, “ THE
BULLETIN ” will CENTENNIATE on the
19th inst. in a SPECIAL NUMBER of un-
usual magnificence.
All orders for copies of the CENTENNIAL
“ BULLETIN ” should be sent in at once.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 7, le88.
The Bitter Cry of the Landlord.
All over the world of alleged civilisation the
bitter cry of the landlord is beginning to
echo abroad. Wherever the doctrines of
human equality have been preached, there
the edifice of property and vested interests
commences to totter, and straightway the
host of unclean things which it has sheltered
issue forth, like the creatures of the night
which gibbered on the reeling walls of de-
serted Babylon, to scream out discordant
wailings about the approaching collapse of
society, religion, and all things fair and
beautiful besides. For almost the first time
in history the landlord condescends to apolo-
gise for his existence. Fifty years ago he
posed as a great I AM!; he hardly even pra-
te aded to be a useful member of society, and
took his stand on the good old theory that
the earth had been given to him by the
Lord, and that he was the Lord’s anointed
representative. To-day, however, he stands
on a somewhat lower plane, and endeavours
to prove that he is the keystone of the social
arch, that without him the fabric of society
would inevitably fall into ruins and bury the
human race amid the resulting chaos, that
without him the poor would starve, and the
labourer be unemployed, and the noonday
of civilisation be lost in eternal night. Bat
perhaps ib is better to let the hereditary
loafer define his position in his own words.
“ Landholder,” writing to the Lithgow
(N.S.W.) Enterprise, one of the moat
active organs of the cause of Australian
Land Nationalisation, thus lays down the
central axioms of the great law by which the
rich are to grow ever richer, and the poor for
ever poorer until the Day of Jadgment, and
everyone is to be content in the station to
which Providence has called him :
“ The poor ye have always with you,” said the
world’s greatest teacher ; and yet M‘Glynn and
Henry George in America have started an Anti-
Poverty Society. Is ib not impious thus to work
against the plain dictates of revealed religio l ?
„ . . Withoub the poor what would be the use
of being rich? . . . The Lord gives wealth to
some to teach them the power of command, and
to others ha gives poverty to bless them by the
lessons of humble, willing, and devoted service.
Private property in land is the cause of material
progress. Where land values are the highest
there you find the greatest) development of the
arts of civilisation. For social refinement, scien-
tific attainments, and world-wide philanthropy we
go to great cities like London and New York,
where, according to Henry George, ‘the owner
ship of a plot of land is a fortune ’ : certainly not
to the wilds of Australia, where land can be had
for a mere song. There is a reverse side to this
picture, but where would be the scape for the
exercise of the divine faculties of benevolence and
large-hearted charity by the rich, and of patient
faith and uncomplaining humility by the poor, if
none were very poor or excessively rich? . . .
Could the impious hands that are struggling to
abolish the blessing they miscall the curse of
poverty succeed, our civilisation would surely
decay ; we should descend by sure degrees to the
level of the savage, and finally to that of the
brute. Capital gives employment to labour. . .
Misguided people say “labour is the producer of
all wealth,” They take no note of the fact that it
reQuires a rich man to set a poor man to work ;
else why is ib that we have an unemployed diffi-
culty ? Get rid of our rich men, and the whole lot
of us will be unemployed, and wa shall all starve
together.”
# * *
“ The poor ye have always with you.”
This little text, as applied by the land-
owners and landstealers of the earth, is the
great central blasphemy of an accursed
system of spoliation. Jesus Christ uttered
these much-abused words as a mournful re-
proach to the stony-hearted greed which kept
the geeat mass of mankind in hopeless
poverty, but “The poor ye shall have
always with you ”He never did say. He
merc y recorded a pitiable fact one of the
saddest features of His pitiable surround-
ings, and His words have been tortured int >
a Divine plea for the existence of eternal
p overty. In like manner he mentioned the
existence of murder, idolatry, adultery, and
all manner of cruelty, and with similar rea-
son it might be held that the great Re-
former advocated their continuance and bide
the w .rid lay no sam-ilpp. .us hand 01 these
hoary sins. The crucified Redeemer, ac-
cording to the theories of the modern
Pharisees, was born at Beth’ehem that He
might act as bjiiiff to the land-j ampere oi
the earth, and the Gospels were written and
handed down to serve as a perpetual Tor-
rens’ title to the stolen estates which the
rich man keap3 under lock and key, while
tie poor—whom ye have always with you—
starve and die in the back-slams of crowded
cities.
* * •
Bat it is not alone on the words of his
forgotten God that the landowner relies for
hisdefence. The phantomof universal poverty
and world-wide insolvency is conjured up as
the inevitable result of the abolition of
landlordism “ Get rid of our rich men and
ail will be unemployed ” is the favourite
plea of monopoly, and no doubt this would
prove true if the rich men were to leave this,
earth and take tlie land along with them
which, no doubt, they would do if circum-
stances only permitted. But “ the earth is
the Lord's,” and it is anchored fast to its
foundations of eternal rock. From it
originally sprang all the wealth contained
m the busy cities of that little builder-
man, wealth which began to accumulate ages
before there was any fungus growth of capi-
talists—wealth whose first instalments were
wrung from it by the first man, whoever he
might be, when there was no one either to
employ him or to pay him wages for his toil.
And somehow that pre historic Socialist
struggled through his existence successfully,
and without tools or capital or knowledge
he fouaded the human race and laid the first
stone of all succeeding civilisation. But his
descendants, armed with a vast store of
knowledge amassed in the slow course of
! »ges, with art and science to aid them and a
coantless multitude of resources, of which he
never dreamed, at their command, cannot,
according to the theories of their slave-
drivers, stand alone and unfettered as did
their ancestors in the days of their darkness.
They must either lean upon the broken reed
of the capitalist who has stolen their heri-
tage, and sue humbly to him for permission
to earn their bread—or else they must sink
bo the level of the brutes until, like the
brutes, they pass away.
Australia lias borrowed her system oi
landlordism from England, but in Englanc
itself landlordism, as now understood, is com-
paratively a thing of yesterday. The hardy
tribes which first made good their hold upon
the European continent were all organised,
more or less, upon the basis of Socialism,
and land was almost invariably the property
of the State—not of the individual. But
the advent of feudalism brought about a
change. The surface of the earth was lent
out to the barons of the Middle Ages, and In
return for the use of their huge estates they
were pledged to perform military service
whenever called upon, in company with
(heir tenants, who held their farms on the
same warlike tenure. Wars were carried on
at a cheap rate in those days because the
hereditary rulers of the people had them-
selves to pay the cost of the great game of
bloodshed. Campaigns, which nowadays
would bankrupt a nation, were reduced to
sudden raids, and as often as not were
brought to an abrupt termination because
the noble lords of that distant past felt the
imperative necessity of getting back before
they were eaten out of house and
home in exchange for a trjfle of
barren glory. There were no national
debts piled up then by the accumulated cost
of ancient wars and forays; the barons of
old knew better than to permit extrava-
gancies which would have mortgaged them
for future ages, but in which the common
herd would not have participated, and as the
exercise of a “spirited foreign policy”—to
quote the phrase of the mountebank who is
still revered as the patron saint of Toryism
—involved much loss and much personal in-
jury to the British House of Peers that body
was less given to meddling with the
affairs of distant nations than is the
gathering of imbeciles which now oc-
cupies the hereditary Chamber. But the
spirit of the Lombard and the Hebrew
gradually entered into these men of open
violence, and, afeer many manoeuvres, they
succeeded ultimately in shifting the burden
of military expenditure on to the people.
The lands which were lent, not granted, to
these brigands ia mail as a fair equiva-
lent for the defence of their couatry ihey
still retaiaed, bub they repudiated every in-
dividual responsibility attached to their pos-
session, and on this atrocious steal is
founded the modern institution of land-
lordism—the institution which the land-
owners describe as God-given, but which, in
its modern sense, is merely the ingenious
device of a race of coroaetted thieves.
* * •
And under this modern system of land-
lordism the world has made stupendous ad-
vances in material prosperity. Men who
were not landlords have discovered the
powers of steam and electricity, have found
new continents, and exploited new nations,
and have revealed treasures of gold such as
were never dreamt of before, while the
monopolists of creation, animalised and ren-
dered somnolent by idleness and luxury,
dozed in their lordly mansions, and only
woke to reap where they had not sown.
Men who were not landlords have built up a
great literature, have created manufactures,
and established commerce ; and because
these things have been done in their time
the s ealeis of ti e eurta po.nb to the bene-
ficence of their sway, and ask how th
human race would have fared without thei
fostering supervision. And while the land
1 ;ss multitude have been doing these thing
the landlords have been waging hideoui war
with the blocd and gold of the dtspoile
masses, and have been piling up immea
surable debts for the hungry toilers of th
future to liquidate ; they have been obtaining
huge grants of land from corrupt Govern
ments by backstairs influence, and hav
graciously permitted the poor, whom they
have always with them, to live upon it, anc
have exacted from them three-fourths of the
value of their labour in return for the privi
lege of existing in a world which a God
made to order by a servile Church—hac
created only for the rich.
• * •
“The poor ye have always with you,’
said Jesus of old, and the poor of Eng-
land we have always with us in Aus-
tralia, for they come out by thousands to
escape from the curse of the men who have
taken from thorn the soil, and have given
them in return the burdens which the soi]
originally bore ; and, when they arrive in
the New World, they find that the landlord
is. there before them, and that, with the
money which he has wrung from them in
past years, he has bought up the land by
provinces, and merely offers them a new
servitude in exchange for the old. Why the
masses of England are poor a glance at the
revenue returns will explain. Land, the
exclusive luxury of the rich, pays about lfd.
in the £ towards the national expenses.
Coffee pays 2s. 6d. in the £ ; tea, 7s. ;
tobacco, 16s. Bd., and other articles of diet
in proportion. The labourer, with 20s. a
week, eats as much as the landlord—or
rather, Nature meant him to do so, though
the chance comes but rarely—and, in so
doing, he contributes one-fourth, at least, of
his scanty earnings to the Government in
various forms of taxation, while the rich
monopolist gives to the public Treasury at
most one-hundredth part of the income for
which he neither toils nor spins. Yet, in
the face of these accumulated horrors of
loathsome greed and hideous hypocrisy, the
lando vner, when put on his defence, pleads
t hat the Lord has made him rich in order
that he may fulfil his mission of aiding the
poor. The Lord, in truth, sent him into
the world naked and penniless, and when
tyrannous craft has made him rich he merely
employs the poor to make him richer still.
When his serfs are too old and feeble to ful-
fil this duty he assists them —thus. Here is
a picture of London life by an American
journalist — a picture from the great city
which contains more treasure, and pre-
sumedly more benevolence, than any other
on the face of the earlh :
“ Yesterday afternoon I saw a really awful
street battle, a fight between a poor old woman
and a mangy dog for the possession of a bone,
near London Bridge. The bone lay on the side-
walk, or lather near it; it had but the least bit of
decayed meat still attached to it. The dog came
along and saw the bone. The dog was hungry.
The old woman tottered by and likewise saw the
bone, and was likewise hungry. The two beings
simultaneously rushed to and seized the bone.
Both fought witheaoh other for possession. It was
a strange, sad spectacle, one of the strangest and
saddest ever seen even in strange, sad London.
But the old woman, though hunger almost made
her strong, was no match for the dog, who ran off
with the bone, while the old woman cursed him as
he ran. This woman was one of the tramps who
have not where to lay their heads, and who sleep,
fight, drink, eat, live, and die in the open air, or
fog. There are at the present moment over 20,000
of these.
That bone was probably the only meal to be
procured in all London which was not taxed
in some shape to pay for the burden which
the rich landowners shifted off their
shoulders and on to those of the poor 200
years ago—and it went to a dog, while
20,000 disinherited human beings were
to fight and curse and pray for its possession.
* * *
At last, however, the evil of landlordism
is beginning to react upon itself. In Eng-
land and Ireland nearly a sixth of the arable
soil lies idle and untilied because the land-
lord demands so much for its use that the
farmer has nothing left to pay his labourer—
the cheapest of all toilers—a slave who re-
ceives about 9*. a week, and pays away a
fourth of that amount in direct and indirect
taxation. In England this miserable serf
endures his lot in comparative silence, but
in Ireland he has at last begun to protest,
and the lord of the soil—the man who props
up the cause of civilisation and holds his
wealth in order tbat he may do good to the
poor—has a remedy to suggest. The Bat, an
active organ of English Toryism, speaks :
“We must sooner or later recognise the fact
that the Irish are in a state of mutiny, and that
they must be treated like the Indian revolutionists
and the Burmese savages were. As a method
milder than bullets and yet undoubtedly effica-
cious, I some months ago suggested the lash. My
advice was not taken.”
“ The Lord giveth wealth to some to teach
them the power of command,” and what the
Lord has given is to be expended in the
purchase of a soourge and a gallows for the
poor.
• * *
"When the wilds of Australia become
crowded with toiling, suffering humanity,
then will Australian landlordism be what
English landlordism now is. The only hope
for the New World Ins in a change of
policy before the landlords become the sole
lawmakers of the Continent, and rule it as
they already rule the suffering mother-
country, while the vast mass of the popula
tion degenerate into hopeless, lifeless, soul-
less slavery. The one good feature in the
system of the Middle Ages must be revived ;
the land must bear the cost of govern,
ment, as it did before the so-called noble-
men of England conceived the idea of trans-
ferring their responsibilities to the shoulders
of the landless multitude, and, whether the
impost bears the name of rent or taxation,
the result will be the same. Private land-
lordism will be utterly abolished ; Australia
will no longer be drained of her wealth by
paying tribute to foreign land-syndicates,
and the budding oligarchy which threatens
to enslave the new nations of the South will
be broken for ever. The cry of the land-
lords is their appeal against the reform
which they can already see looming in the
distance, but the earth is weary of them and
their greed and blasphemy, and the time is
at hand when they will inflict the curse of
their existence upon their fellow-men no
more.
A Foreign Sway,
The New South Wales Premier—who has uever
yet contrived to have a surplus in his Treasury
which did not result from the sale of Crown lands
to private persons—proposes to “ wipe out th
deficit with the stroke of a pen ” by alienatin
Australian lands from the Australians, and cor ■
cealing the pressure temporarily resulting from
his peculiar system cf finance under a tenfold anc
permanent pressure of foreign landlordism. H
would cut the land up into blocks and offer it i
the English market, and, with angelic simplicity
he remarks that “ this would attract the English
farmers, and secure the most desirable class o;'
colonists.”
* * #
In the first instance, there is no guarantee tha
the purchasers would be intending bona fide
colonists. They would more probably be the
foreign appropriators of capital, who, with the
store wrung from the ages of enslavement of their
own oouatrymen, would be able to bid higher
than the others for the privilege, not of having
the land to work, but of holding a legal power o
preventing others from working it, except on their
own exorbitant terms. In the next, supposing it
were expre3ely stipulated that the purchasers
should reside on and improve the land, who would
be the men likely to desire such a change from
their present circumstances ? Not the successful
farmers, but these who found themselves unable
to make both ends meet “ at home,” and who
would, therefore, endure the expense of the
journey and the clearing of new land in the hope
of doing better abroad. But these men—where
are they to find the money for such a project ?
Under the circumstances, they can only do so by
borrowing; and, of course, on the spot, from the
English landlords. Then they commence opera-
tions hampered with mortgages, and everybody
knows that these capitalists manipulate tha
market at the sales after harvest, so as to pur-
chase the produce at a price that will not leave
the farmer a margin for both household expanses
and interest. By this means they grab the in-
terest in the shape of cheapness, and then sue the
farmer for not paying it to them over again in the
shape of money. Eventually they will have aD-
propriated alike the land and the produce, acd the
working farmer will have become a pauper This
is exceedingly nice for the landlord, who ought to
be extremely graceful to Sir ’Enery for offering
him the opportunity of doing the job upon a
wholesale scale. To possess half the arable land
m New South Wales, after getting its produce at
half-price, and extracting the half so given from
the producers’ pockets again by bankruptcy pro-
ceedings, without spending one-quarter halfpenny
upon the production, is a “ throw in ” which might
well make a Rothschild’s mouth water.
Then, of course, this procedure has the effect of
lowering the market ra'es for the indigenous
farmer who must accordingljr borrow to meet
i hard times, and so he, in turn, is chewed up by
the monster. And all this is to say nothing of
dummyism and the importation of foreign pauper
labour to work the foreign “ owned ” land to the
detriment of the free labour of Australia
“iTady is? Ulte 0ld " world institutions
* * *
This is no fancy picture. The same thing is ac-
tually being done in these lands by our own leoit
lators, and 'he records of the several offices nr
titles could reveal only too many a tale of ruthless
rapine and fraud committed in precisely the same
manner. And if it is possible here, where, as y?t
the money has in a great degree, to be mkde for
the purpose as the job proceeds, what have we
not to apprehend from a country where it has al-
ready been monopolised, and only lies waiting the
opportunity to be thrown massively Into the task?
“ * •
We emphatically declaim against the sale of
any State lands at all, even to those in our own
midst, much less would we see them passed into
the hands of these over whom the nation has
neither influence nor control. The land should be
as free as the air to those who wish to use it
is not so difficult to have it so-the experiment
has been partly tried, and with magnificent sue-
cess. When the gold-mines of Victoria were al
most all held under miners’ rights, they tere
worked in & bona-fide manner, and when w lre
there fewer bogus companies, formed for the mere
purpose of selling out to somebody else and
making calls to pay a managers sflary than
under that system ? It is only the facilities offered
by a lease for holding the ground un worked that
have favoured the formation cf speculative com*
panies, and the still greater facilities of private
ownership that have enriched the idle owners
with as much as 80 per cent, of the gold extracted
and kept bona-fide mining on private lands
unremuneratiye, until the urgent necessity of the
case called forth the Mining on Private PmnnT,!
Act. Exactly the same thing is £
whether land is held for gold mining or for farm*
mg, only the latter is slower in operation and the
results are, .therefore, less quickly to be seen
The State lease, with compensation for improve*
ments.m safer for the people than the freehold
and the land right, except in special cases, would
be better still. The alienation of the land enables
ttobeheldunproduotively, and blackmail to be
levied for the right of using it. The alienation to
c tizens of the Australian nation is bad enough as
placing the masses at the mercy of p i rate g*eed •
but the alienation to foreigners is a Hundred times
worse, as it not only does -his, but prevents The
deterrent Influence of public opinion, and even-
tually f aunts remed al legation by the certain


recommendation that Her Most Appropriative
Majesty shall veto the needed measure in the in-
terests of Her Majesty’s grovelling English all-
appropriators in England.
* * *
The land is virtually the bread. When the feelings
•of Australians are so debased that they can tolerate
a proposal to relieve a temporary embarrassment
by selling to foreign money-holders the lasting
monopoly of their bread, then, and not till then,
•shall we fear that the public voice will not be
raised in 'condemnation of Sir Henry Parkes’
latest suggestion. Meanwhile, we are striving to
lead the van of progress as a nation, and all the
specious arguments which the manipulators of
•other people’s industry may propound will scarcely
persuade us to retrograde.
The Plot Thickens.
It remains no longer a theory—it is a proved fact
—that the hereditary lords of England view with
alarm and jealousy the growth of popular emanci-
pation, the spread of independence and freedom.
Their latest measure intended to overthro w this
later growth—a measure prompted by the instinot
of self-preservation in its last struggle of despair—
would be supremely ludicrous •in its childishness
were not the treachery and ambition of many of
the so-called representatives of the country an
element of danger. What these lords, forsooth,
propose, is that, being lords and aristocrats and
the effete remnants of a social tyranny which they
wish to perpetuate and re-establish upon the
people at large, they may be allowed, upon merely
resigning their seats temporarily in the House of
Lords, to bamboozle their way into the House of
Commons, and thereby make twoHojises of Lords
to the utter annihilation of the House of the
People.
# * *
There is little danger of their seeking to pro-
ceed at once (should they gain what they wish) to
introduce a Reform Bill for the abolition of the
dummifled Commons, or even for the immediate re-
striction of the franchise. That would provoke
civil war, and, as they well know, that would end
in Britain beooming a Republic. They only desire
to strengthen their position by chioanery.
* # *
They would simply prevent any radical reform
measures from passing the Commons, and, of
course, none would ever be broached in their own
original Chamber. They would slyly work in
measures that would hamper and interfere with
existing reforms by means of legal intricacies
without appearing to do so, andpromote grovelling
servility and Imperialism whenever they saw an
opportunity to debase the public mind with
slobber. They would hamper the proceedings of
Parliament and cause the Radical party to appear
in the light of obstructionists. Gradually they
would hope to undo all the goad that has been
done, and revert to the old system of Court rule.
• # #
The only question is, do they think for a
moment that, supposing the measure of permis-
sion duly passed, the people would be block-
headed enough to return them? Perhaps they
really imagine so. Perhaps they think that a
regard for present company would prevent any
vigorous opposition in the Commons, should only
one of them succeed in being elected, to any job-
bery that might go on in the lordly Chamber.
Just so ;~then, of course, the opposers would be
branded" as personally offensive, and the grovel-
ling party would for awhile gain in influenc?.
But if all this were to take place it would only
precipitate the end. If they are fond of their
titles, they would do better to cling to them in
obscure silence ; not to arouse hostility by seeking
afoer the medlseval glitter and power which those
titles once carried.
• * *
But it is just this glittering sway to which
they aspire, and no effort do they intend to spare
(for regaining it. And, though they will nob suc-
ceed-for Freedom, though often baffled, will
never be defeated—they are capable of inflicting
terrible harm upon those institutions which are
as yet scarcely formed or set into their natural
hardy constitution. They cannot conquer, but
they may delay and hinder the other side. Eng-
land needs to be on the alert against the disease
than is still lingering in her frame.
*„ * #
And it is to this diseased and sickening body
that we are asked to link our own comparative
health for contamination! Thanks, we would
rather not I We have no hatred for England or
things English, but we have for things enslaving
and debasing. When England or any other
civilized country asks us to join in a oloser union
of friendship and freedom, we shall only be too
happy to comply. But it must be a union of free-
dom, not a bond linking us down to the Blavery
from which we seek to make our escape. Were
j ngland itself to call us now, we should refuse,
for the same reason that we should decline to give
up our cottage and go to share the mansion of a
leper. Now, it is not England—not the suffering
leper—that calls to us, but the lordly taint, the
leprosy, seeking us for its new prey.
* * *
In a word, when, as a free and independent
nation, we can with any other ass'st in the Federa-
tion of the Free World, we are ready. But we
will not federate against our freedom ; and If any-
thing else were wanted to prove that this latter is
the nature of the Imperial scheme now set before
us, the Earl of Dunraven's proposition is just in
the nick of time to furnish that revelation. Once
more we whisper, “ Beware of ‘ snaix ! ’ "
The following specimen of noble and lofty bunkum
was perpetrated by W. A. M'Arthur, M.P.,
from England, oa a recent occasion, when a
number of Sydney citizens ate more than was
good for them in the local Town Hall in order to
Bhow that they regarded him ai a man and a
brother: —
He need hardly say that he was a firm believer in the
English race. It had spread over the world, carrying with it
everywhere the indestructible principles of righteousness.
-He meant that it had oariied everywhere the love of truth
and the words of peace. Of such a nation we did well to be
proud.
The indestructible principle of righteousness is
original and good, but there is an awkward com-
mentary on it in the advertisement which so fre-
quently turns up in the Indian papers : “No
Christian nesd apply.” Too mueh of the inde-
structible spirit of righteousness has made the
converted Asiatic a drunkard and a sot, and it
and the “ words of peace ” combined have paved
the earth with human bones. As regards the
missionaries who bear the “ indestructible ” article
and the other thing, they live in two-storey houses
on the shores of coral isles, and the country for
half a mile round is Uttered with empty cham-
pagne-bottles, while the shepherd inside is either
trading in copra, or messing with politics, or
maundering to a dark congregation, whom the
white man’s bright example has reduced to a con-
stant state of Mu. I'hat Town Hall banquet was
a good feed thrown away.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Vice-regal Tear of Sympathy.
Messrs. Anthony Hordern and Son have received the
following telegram from Mr. E. W aldington, private
secretary:—“ His Excellency and Lady Oarington muoh
regret to hear of loss sustained, and heartily sympathise with
you.”—Sydney Daily Paper.
The great Imperial Federation conspiracy, new
evidences of which come to light every day, is a
deep-laid scheme by which Australia is to be made
directly subject to England and England’s foreign
Queen. This lady, in the words of a small boy,
who, some six months ago, rose to a pinnacle of
undying literary fame, is always “very sorry
when there is an accident in the coal-mines,” and
as a dispenser of sympathy unaccompanied by
cash she stands unrivalled among the crowntd
heads of Europe. Governor Carington, as her
deputy, and as the reflection of her royal charity
and condescension, is, therefore, required to have
the tear of sensibility always on hand, but he
overdid the work from the first until he made
himself dirt fcheap. In the early days of his
reign he grieved much and often over widows of
labouring men killed in the interests of capital,
youthful boxers, kickers, and bruisers, maimed in
the glorious cause of sport, and other sufferers
who were unused to such emotion, and for a time
theeffectwas all that could be wished. England had
sent out a Governor who cou’d weep a bucketful
whenever occasion demanded, and it was taken
for granted that whatever cause such a sympa'-
thetic peer represented was necessarily a noble
and generous one. His tears propped up the in-
terests of Imperial Federation just as the straight-
ness of NicholasNickleby's legs cast a temporary
halo over Dotheboys Hall. Bub when Lord Car-
ington becomes an incarnation of bathos weeping
amid the ruins of a millionaire's bedding-factory
the effect is spoiled ; and, worse still, he gives
himself away as the old Tory woishipper of “ pro-
pntty ” instead of the whole-souled friend of the
suffering and needy which many bad hitherto
imagined him to be. His sorrow, when he lets it
loose in thisunguarded moment, is for thecapitalist
who wasn’t insured so well as he might have
been, instead of for the unfortunate workmen who
have been thrown out of employment, ar d whose
wives and families will suffer in common with
themselves by the disaster which has befallen
them. For them there is no compensation, but
the wealthy bosses have the consolation of know-
ing that the “private” telegram of sympathy
which has been so opportunely made public will
serve as a good advertisement, and wil repay them
at least tenfold for anything they have lost.
Other capitalists, too, will keep the precedent in
sight, and when the labourer’s dray on which the
Abigail “ bank ” has advanced a 1 rifle at 200
per shent and a s tiding scale of commission
is unhappily conflagrated, there will b 3 more
sympathy—for the afflicted three-ball show,
which will help that down-trodden institution to
bear up under its sorrows. In 1881, Lord Caring-
ton sat on a Royal Commission to consider the
housing of the working-clasae3 of England, but
the hideous panorama of human woe which then
passed before his gaze seems to have done nothing
to convince him that the misery of the poor is of
more account than a small loss in a rich man s
bedding-factory. His brain is not built to grasp a
big principle. He postponed a ball out of respect
to the feelings of “sassiety" at the time of the
j udiclal murder of four wretched boys, but he
insulted the representative intellect of the colony
when it came to plead for a commutation of that
hideous death-sentence, by ignoring its arguments
and reading in reply a paper whioh had been evi-
dently inspired hours before by the ex-Attorney-
General of Yandemonia, and which had as much
relevancy to the pleas advanced as the Chinese
Emperor’s heal! h has to the Australian rabbit-
plague. For onoe he found himself out of the
beaten track of deputy-grief, and he collapsed.
And the collapse was so woeful that we may be
excused for presuming that even his grief is not
his own—that he has been simply sent out with
instructions to represent the “sympathetic" and
washy side of the Tory policy; and after being
selected as the best available man to discharge a
duty which only requires a secretary and a few
telegraph-forms, he has achieved nothing but
failure. It requires intellect even to be Pre-
eminent in Grief.
+
The Extinct Volcanoes.
Twelve more empty craters are to be added to
the already long row of extinct volcanoes in the
New South Wales Upper House. Out of the sixty
harmless and ladylike persons who drag out a
vegetable existence in that solemn Chamber and
amuse themselves in their old age by making laws
for a young nation, nearly halt have succumbed
to wearitess and mental collapse, and have practi-
cally disappeared from the stage, and consequently
it has become a matter of difficulty to raise a
quorum when the nominees assemble to wheeze
and groan over the too great velocity of the age.
The venerable dullards were growing dally scarcer
and more somnolent, and it was therefore con-
sidered necessary, according to Sir Henry
Parkes, to rouse them up by an infusion of fresh
blood and fresh vigour. For this reason it has
been resolved to shoot into the Upper Sarcophagus
a Judge, who has retired from the Bench because
feebleness and age have rendered him inrap
able of further service; seven political
failures who, beitg pronounced not sufficiently
intelligent to occupy seats in the Assembly for a
limited period while in their prime, are, therefore,
to sit in the Council for life and inflict the dregs
of their existence on the nation which rejeoted
them ; and four unknown individuals whose ap-
pointments will ever remain a mystery. Hitherto
there has been an unwritten law in New South
Wales whioh has pi evented the appointment of
new Councillors during the Parliamentary session
lest it should be supposed that they had b;en sent
into the House for the purpose of swamping op-
position to some measure then in progress, but
Parkes, who has already overridden so many
precedents, has disregarded this one also. It will
probably be found, therefore, that the new cargo
of infirmity, incapacity, and old age, whioh has
been engaged to shore up a tottering legislative
generation is prepared to vote straight on the
Bill for stealing the name of the Continent, or on
some other lurid idiocy now before the public. If
the new members fail to do this there is no excuse
for their existence. New South Wales
does not want them —in fact ib does
not want the Council at all, and the pas-
sive continuance of that dreary corporation
is in itself a disgrace to a Democratic country
and an insult to a Democratic system. Some
years ago the nation shook off the legislative in-
cubus of John Davies, C.M.G., with scorn and
digust, and yet the rotten system of New
South Wales’ government enables Parkes,
with one stroke of his pen, to inflict this
political outcast upon the country for
the term of his natural life, and make
him one of the 69 emperors of Botany Bay
Under the same system, Parkes oouli, if ne
chose, make a released oonv o, or a no^orioui
criminal one of the bosses of the land, and yet, in
the face of thip, New South Wales boasts that it
is ruled by the voice of the people. In reality, the
country is at the mercy of an oligarchy without
brains, and the only safety lies in the senility of
its oligarchs. In politics New South Wales emu-
lates the Dahomaa tribes, who worship
a snake, but, happily, in the present in-
stance, the reptile is dead and stuffed, and some
day, possibly, it may dawn on the people that the
stuffed animal might as well be thrown away.
Pressure of public necessity requires that the
Upper House should have neither opinions nor
sense. The Assembly, in its changes, reflects the
ever-changing sentiment of the nation, and the
Council, whose personnel does not change, is in-
variably compelled, sooner or later, to follow the
popular Chamber. It voted for semi-Proteotion
with Jennings, and for avowed Freetrade with
Parichs ; it votes, after a few feeble efforts at re-
sistance, for anything and everything ; and a
Chamber which is not allowed to possess either an
intellect or a soul is not a part of the body politic,
but merely a disease which has grown into its
vitals. The country tolerates the existence of the
Council from force of habit, but, taught by ex-
perience, it maintains the Assembly to squash it
whenever it attempts to speak—in other words, it
buys an expensive madman and hires a keeper to
suppress him. The system is both costly and ir-
rational, and the time cannot be far off when the
nation will resolve to dispense with the madman
and employ the keeper on some more profitable
work.
4,
Tho Case of Monsieur Gabriel.
Tt will be remembered that on last Boxing Day
the poor, soft-brained wretch, August Gabriel,
was to have received 15 lashes for an offence tne
d-s'gnation of which upon the charge sheet was
prime i facie evidence of the man's insanity.
Notices of appeal were, however, served upon the
lock up keeper, and as, under the New South
Wales Criminal Law Amendment Act, section
147, it is provided that floggings shall be inflicted
during the term of the imprisonment awarded,
which is to be not less than 6 or more than 96
hours, the flogging in this oasa will probably not
be administered. It is worthy of remark, how-
ever, that this is in no way the fault of the spirit,
but a flaw in the technical administration of the
law. In this case, also, one or two observations
regardir g the arbitrariness of the law by which
he was to have been punished, are worthy of
serious consideration. Ihe code under which he
was to have suffered was manufactured during
the convict days of the past, by a convict-time At-
torney-General, who was afterwards Chief Jus! ice
of New South Wales, and whose son is at present a
Supreme Court Judge in that colony. Moreover,
Gabriel’s case was presided over by a convict
time ex-squatter, who, as chairman of the Bench,
informed ihe prisoner that, were it not for bis
counsel’s eloquent appeal, he should have had 30 in-
stead of 15 lashes. Does this mean that punish-
ment is awarded not to crime l”* - the lack of
eloquence in counsel ? If tne law provides a ce:'
tain punishment for a certain offence, why is that
punishment not administered ? Probably, had
prisoner’s counsel been a little more eloquent his
client would have got off wit h only a round dozen
and a further display of eloquence would have
laved hij man completely. This opens up a new
field of income to well-developed legal eloquence.
Tne barristers who cannot elocute are to be com-
miserated deeply. But if not 15 why 30 ? Is
there a special virtue in 30 lashes— a special deter-
rent effect —and will 15 lashes deter only half as
much ? Or, did the magic qumber come down on
the goldens ream of time from our convict past also,
with the raft-load of judges and attorneys and
leg-iron-written laws ? Why not 50 ? Was that
not the magic number of the past ? Have 20
lashes been knocked off the true deterrent num-
ber in deference to public opinion, and if so, is
not the whole thing something like a gibbering
farce ?
♦
Freetrade in Sewage.
The eloquent aspeot of sewage and the true in-
wardness of the matter which makes the cabbage
sprout were dealt with at some length by the
Sydney Evening News last week, and various
new lights w ere thrown on a malodorous subject.
For instance: —
A dose quite as fatal to Protectionists as “ Rough on
Rats” to a suicide is a fact which shows the successful estab-
lishment of any industry or enterprise without the aid of
Customs-house assistance. The Freetrade theory is that
what a country can produce she will produce at the right
time, and that when she takes the work in hand, the in-
genuity and inventive powers of her people, developed by
competition, will enable her to hold her own against outside
competition, especially when handicapped by distance.
Some harmless individual, it appeard, has estab-
lished a factory at Johnstone’s Bay (Sydney), in
whioh the decaying cabbage and the late goat are
disinfected and turned into inoffensive fertilisers,
and it is this seemingly simple circumstance
which has excited the News’ rooster, and made it
crow. The factory in question has been estab-
lished “without the aid of Customs-house assist-
ance,” though how Customs-house assistance
could increase the flow of sewage or make it
smell worse than it did before, or how Freetrade
could have helped in the establishment of sewer-
age-works, seeing that the sewage was there all
the same, no matter what the tariff mtght be, are
questions on which no light is thrown. “ The
Freetrade theory is that what a country can pro-
duce she will produce at the right time,” and
when the right time came, New South Wales pro-
duced sewage and hadn’t any place to put io. She
also produced it at the wrong time, and in the
wrong place, for 100 years or so, but that doesn’t
esunt as an argument in favour of Protection,
though the fact of her producing it at lastatthe right
time does count, it seems, on behalf of Freetrade.
This same blessed policy, it would appear, has
enabled the colony “ to hold her own against out-
side competition, especially when handicapped by
distance," though where in thunder Bennett
ever heard of outside competition in Bewage, or
how distant sewage is affected by Parkes’ new
tariff, or where the Protectionist ever lived who
wanted to protect sewage, are dark and solemn
mysteries. New South Wales, however, can
“ hold her own,” which, we presume, means
that she can produce as much sewage
as any effete nation groaning beneath the horrors
of Protection. She has done it for a century
already, and has thrown it anywhere—into Sydney
Harbour, into the ocean, into rivers, swamps,
lakes, disused mines, and the like, and even now
the drainage of Sydney is breeding a Centennial
pestilence on the flats near Cook's River, and, as
the News points out with pride, this great in-
dustry in slinging garbage has grown up without
any artificial support from a vicious system of
Protection. Protected countries have sewage
also, but they are enslaved and hampered by a
hideous Custom-house system, and are too spirit-
broken to shy it about in the airy fashion of the
New South Wales Freetrader. Also, protected
countries have sewage works—in fact the News
builds its eulogium of the Johnstone’s Bay estab-
lishment on the fact that it is “ unsurpassed by
any sitnil r works in tne United States,” from
which it appears that tte Land of Commercial
Freedom is only just making a feeble effort to get
on a level with a country where the slush is
blasted by Protection and kept down by the tra-
ditions of the effete past. All of which—we
quote once more from the Evening Bennett—
Points to the one fact, that where therd are brains and
enterprise, there need not b- a Customs’ wall—a barrier
0 shelter weak men from the withering blast of com
petition.
To which we reply in a heartbroken sort of way,
Ju ® b so - ’ Lot the withering blast of competi-
tion blow on the sewage if it wants to. We won’t
do anything to hinder it. We don t take the
same interest in the subject as the News, and, for
all we care, the whole stock of garbage may be
crushed for want of “brains and enterprise ” as
soon as it likes. The sewage isn’t our brother,
anyhow, however closely id may be related to the
paper with the baby-for-sale advertisements, and
we have no desire to worry about it.
Ih > Tribe of Mary Jane Hicks.
It is exactly one year since the Moloch of the
New South Wales Criminal Code was placated by
four youngsters, sacrificed as a blood-offering at
an carry hour in the Bunlit morning of last
January, and the se.f-styled philosophic Press cf
Sydney confidently predicted that the people of
Australia had seen and heard the last of forceful
violation. Yet the other day, in Newtown, Miss
Ada Peel, highly-respectabie domestic servant,
held a hat from which four men drew lots for
precedence for the privilege of pollution—if such
a word can be used in such a connection—and
when disturbed by a policeman, promptly followc d
the example of Miss Mary Jane Hicks, and
laid an information against her “ brutal
ravishers.” It was only a short time after
the Mount Rennie occurrence that a girl
of fifteen somewhere in the vicinity of the town
of Bathurst, boasted of her endurance of the
assaults of seven men in succession, and almost
immediately a fine mushroom crop of “ outrages ”
sprang up throughout the colony cf New South
Wales, and notwithstanding that all these cases
fell through, not one of the interesting young
ladies concerned was arrested for 'perjury. Al-
most simultaneously with Parkes’ proposals for
the extension of the franchise to women we have
the facts evidenced by recent trials that we do not
punish crime in women purely on the grounds of
sexual consideration, If the sexes are really and
truly equal let them be equal on the gallows, in
the gaol, and at the triangles. If we really intend
to punish crime by hanging or flogging,
why should we let escape the woman who
poisons her husband, or the wanton little repro-
bate who is clearly proved in evidence to
be ‘ ‘ forty times worse than the men ? ”
Let us not hear in future of charming young
ladies, who, with the assistance of brutal laws,
brainless Governors, ferocious Judges, and de-
graded juries, bred in a colony with a convict
past, manage to secure the hanging of a batch of
babies, after criminal trials so disgracefully con-
ducted that they should make men hesitate to
caa themed ves Australians. In the face of the
evidence disclosed in the recent cme of that
charming—albeit unwlnged—angel Ada Peel, let
us not hear any more about the impossibility of
anot er Mount Rennie outrage occuriing. In the
name of whatever we pretend to worship, let
us not assume that feminine virtue is a
physiological attribute. Let as not again
hear of a crowd of well-dressed noodles gathering
at Government House, and, by their advocacy of
the cause of Miss Mary Jane Hicks, putting
their wives, their daughters, their sisters, and
their mothers—presumably virtuous women—
upon the same level as the professional prostitute.
If we really mean to apply the deterrent influence
of the “cat,” let ns triangle the wanton jades who
trade upon the sensational eroticism cf an hys-
terical public, and hand over the perjured
Phryne to Warder Trokf,
Canon DAlton, who shepherded those Royal
lambs— Albert Victor and George— on their
voyage round the world, has contributed a paper for
the approval of the Colonial Institute. And, in his
precious paper, this small-bore Canon informs us
that England “piled up her 800 millions of debt
in order to acquire her colonies.” This is one of
those impudent Imperial falsehoods which the
Colonial Institute delights to spread abroad
through the agency of an approving Press. The
old fossils who read io in the Times say, “By
gad 1 sir, out of common gratitude to the mother-
country, the colonies are bound to stand by her,
sir. It makes my blood boil when people talk to
me of difficulties in the way of Imperial Federa-
tion. If it hadn’t been for the d d colonies,
England wouldn’t have a National Debt, and we
shouldn’t be paying that cursed Income Tax, yer-
know.” So they maunder on, in club-house
smoking-rooms and at Belgravian dinner-partieß
when the duchesses and countesses have retired to
discuss the Royal Family and other great poll ioal
questions. Your true British Tory chooses to know
nothing of the history of the Empire of whica he
is eternally prattling, and nobody better under-
stands the depth of this wilful ignorance than
fashionable clerics like Dalton. Therefore, he felt
himself on safe ground in addressing such a body
as the Colonial Institute, comprised of men sworn
to preach the unholy gospel of Federation and not
particular aboub what yarns they shove into us
benighted heathen. But we must respectfully re-
mind Dalton that Captain Cook didn't charge the
dear old Meitner Country one red cent for acquir-
ing Australia, nor did William Penn receive a
heavy subsidy for collaring the red man s heritage.
India was “ run" (at a fine profit) by a private
company, until dear old Britain found it good
enough to take over, and a good many odd islands
have been sneaked by missionaries at a small ex-
pense in rum and tracts. In point of fact, Eng-
land piled up more debt In the process of losing
America and keeping India than she ever spent in
acquiring all those possessions which have not yet
attempted to throw off the yoke.
4.
Here is an interesting little fact for the servile
politicians who voted for the New South Wales
Defence Bill. During the last war in South
America the Chilians purchased a fast-steaming
Irish pig-boat, and put into it one huge gun for
its sole armament. This weapon could carry t hells
8000 yards, and armed with it the ex-pig-carrier
bombarded and all but wrecked the towns alorg
the Peruvian coast, and even disabled an iron-
clad, while herself safely out of the range of
the Peruvian batteries. If the same craft, with
its solitary gun, were to visit Australia it could
skim round every high-priced British war-vessel
in these seas, and sink the bottomless cripples
which the Admiralty are so anxious to hire out to
the colonies one by one, and having done this it
could bombard Melbourne and tydney at its
leisure. Australia is to pay some £125,000 per an-
num for the privilege of being at the mercy of
Chili and its mean little pig-boat, and, in vie wo f this,
we would suggest that It might come cheaper in
the end to throw the gilded British figure-head
ont oa its ear, and let each co’ony hive a pig-
boat of its own.


HISTORY OF BOTANY BAT.
The convicb who descended into the hold
of a prison-ship, at an English port, from nine to
fifteen months bofore—and who completed the
voyage alive!—ln many oases never came on deck
again, or saw the sky and sea, until the ship
passed the Heads at Port Jaokson, On some ships
they were allowed on deck in relays, but the
merest suspicion Of an attempt at mutiny was
often alleged as a pretexb to deny this concession.
The co’aviot had no protector, and no person’s in-
fluence stood between him and his fellow-creature
Who saw a chance of saving sixp enoe a day by his
death from fever and starvation. This may seem
an exaggerated way of statl ng the case ; but the
reports of the Committees of the House of Com-
mons, from which thii writer draws his informa-
tion, are still extant, and open for reference,
* * *
The sight that graetel the felon's eye was
not a re-assuring one. It may be taken for
granted that the study and pursuib of an arduous
profession—the cracking of cribs and the picking
of patent locks is not ai intuitive aoeomplisnment
■—had left him little time to cultivate an eye for
the merely picturesque. It is, therefore, probable
that the natural beauties of Sydney Harbour ware
lost on him. Bub the landscape held other
features. Dr. White, the Sydney surgeon, has
already limned some of its characteristics for us
ila fe w graphic touches. Floating corpses of the
hundreds who had died on the prison-ships, and
were thrown overboard in the harbour when the
holds were cleared, lent a charm of their own to
the bright waters of the bay. Moored clo ein to
the shores of Neutral Bay, the convict just
brought on deck might see the naked bodies of his
comrades, as the surgeon has told us, lying upon
the rocks. The sharks and the gulls held revelry
t jgethe •on these oarcases of outcasts. But there
is another feature in the landscape.
* * #
As the convLt ship cams down the har-
bour at about the ead of the last and the beginning
of the present century, one ghastly object me i the
view and stamped its repu’sive characteristics on
the U9W cjuntry whose granitic water gates had
just been passed. Full in the sh’p’s fairway, and
just before reaching one point that intercepted the
straggling buildings of the infant settlement from
the view, there rose straight out from the water a
certain rocky crag. This was Pinchgut - so-called
bv those who affected plain Saxon spsech, because
Hu convict wno broke the regulations was sent
chore and exposed to the weather by day and
n’ght on bread and wafer until the caprice of his
irresponsible torturers was gratified. Five men
were thus kept here on one occasion for thre3
months Sometimes the convict
to swim across to the northern e 'andfn
escape into the bush. Stories told of the effi-
ciency of the , sentinels —Aae sharks, which
h warmed about the little, ijland T ho fact that
the convict was sometrfogg, a nd devoured
by these vigilant fis ag jj 0 ma a o his despt rate
bid for life and „nly i eat) a p}q uaa t ze it to
the Thera was a bond of sympathy
between the, s hark an l the gaoler. Oa the
summit the crag was a gibbet, and here the
skeleton 0 f a murderer swung in the win 3, olank-
ihg.'Vs chains to every breeze that blew. This
dismal sight, as it Was probably the last he saw
on English soil—in one of Hogarth’s piotures you
see an example of the custom that obtained of
hanging malefactors in chains by the sea shore—
was likewise the first that greeted the outcast’s
eyes as he once more touched land under the
English flag. It was a familiar objeob, this diurnal
scarecrow of civilisation. And the unclean thing
doubtless communicated to the observant oonvict
a home like and domestic feeling, and sho wed him
that his oomforts had not been unforeseen or un-
provided for in the strange laod th--t Providence
had designed for him.
* * *
The skeleton was that of a cooper named
Morgan. He held crude views as to the rights of
property, and he attempted to investigate that
economic problem and a colonist’s skull at the
same time H jwever, this untutored cooper did
not investigate by the aid of legitimately appli-
cable principles, He used an adze. A boat that
went one day to the North Shire for wood, says
the thief-catcher Barring fon, brought back a
man’s hat with blood on it. Further search dis-
covered a bidy. This good cooper was one of
eight men sentenced to death for divers offence’,
and, by way of lending special ezlat to the pro-
ceedings in his case, he was hanged on a high
gallows on Pinchgot rock. In tho*e days, and for
many a long year after, it was the custom for the
gibbetted criminal to devise a last dying spsech
and confession to his testamentary legatees. As
Mr. Morgan was hoisted into the balmy air, and
the virginal loveliaess of the surrounding
scenery burst upon him in all the magic of its
native charm, that respectable cooper gave ex-
pression to the responsive harmony within his
soul in certain memorable words. “ You have
here, Indeed, a beautiful harbour! ” said this
excellent man, as he was upset into eternity. The
observation has become historical, and has been
repeated with enthusiasm and reoeived with
exuberant effusion by alt who love their country
ever since.
* * •
“ Morgan wa3 ordered to be hung In
chains on the Islaid Mat-te-wan ye,” rnns the
story. “ This spectacle, shocking to the redned
mind”—it is Barrington, the pickpocket turned
thief-catcher, who is speaking now—“ served as
aa object of ridicule to the convicts and terror to
the native 3, wno, though hitherto p irfcicularly
partial to that spot, now totally abandoned it.”
This Is the second glaring instance of the effect of
advanced British customs oi the ravage mind.
We have seen already how the flogging of a white
man moved them to aiger and to lears ; now we
find them disgusted at the spectac’e of a male-
factor hanging in chains. There is evidently
something repellant to thB sava re mind in both
the rope and the lash. It is only under a h!gh-
prcs3ure civilisation, where the righ s of property
are understood and maintained, that these ad-
juncts of order and law—so shocking to the re-
fined mind, as this mawkish thief-catcher would
say-beoome thoroughly appreciated and intelli-
gently used. Morgan was hanged in 1796 ;in
1800, Hult, who arrived then, describes a skele-
ton in chains as one of the first objects that met
his eye. It would be a nice question to dlsouss
Who was responsible for this desecration of our
beautiful harbour ? Not the murdered man, he
certainly had no voice in the matter. Clearly not
Mr. Morgan, he, in his modesty, would have been
satisded to hang anywhere. The blame is at the
doors of the authorities of the time, who, surfeited
wltn executions and floggings, which doubtle3S
palled on lnir appetites f r cheso horrors, oapri-
clou&l/ directed the hanging of this wretch on
Pinohgut Rock as a pleasant variation from the
beaten track pursued in these cases.
» *
*
Many years after, Dr. Lang complained
bitterly when Governor Denison hewed this rook
away and erected his gingerbread fortifications
there. It was removing an old land-mark, walled
the Doctor, and effacing a picturesque feature of
the landscape. He was right. Yet, for these very
reasons, it would have been better had a few
ounces of melanite done the business, and blasted
the crag and its foul associations for ever out o
existence and out of memory. But if a com
mencement were once made in this way, Where
could we consistently stop before we had blown
the Whole seaboard of tha colony into the sea
While such associations remain it is not to bo
wondered at that the people of Sydney continue
to be proud of their historically boautiful harbour.
* * *
When the hold had been cleared, the con-
victs unchained, and the corpses thrown over-
board, those who survived were ranged up in
three lines on deck. The convict-ship was sur-
rounded by a fleet of boats, packed with pardoned
pick-pockets eager to welcome their newly-anived
acquaintances. No one was allowed on board.
A boat approached too closely to the ship that
carried Holt, and was challenged by the sentinel.
The rowers did not move away as quickly as the
senthW desired. “He levelled his musket, and
fired,” says Holt; “ the ball passed through the
arm and then the body of a young man, who in-
stantly expired. When I got on shore, I heard
that this man bore a good character ; the mur-
derer was brought on shore, tried for wll r ul mur-
der, and acquitted- But, to save him from the
vengeance of the people, he was sent to Norfolk
Island, where Divine vengeance followed him, for
I saw him wioh a deformed frams and covered
with vermin.” The ship was now visited by Cap-
tain Johnstone and other officers, with privileged
spectators. Captain Johnstone read from the in-
dent the name of every convict, offence, sentenco,
and place of conviction. Those whose trades or
professions made them of public use were claimed
by the Government Then the officers of the New
South Wales Co'ps had their choice. The rest
were scrambled for by the iahabl'ants, according
to their position or influence.
* • *
Place awx dames! We have explained
the principle of natural selection that obtained on
the women’s chips. It was repeatel when they
arrived in port. Lieutenant Bond, of the Marines,
describes what took place in all its raked
brutality. And here it may bo observed that
whenever, in such portions of our narrative as
this, the facts and details of Australian itory b: -
coma too gross and revolting f r editorial descrip
tion, this writer has content d hi ns If with tr.ua-
scribing the simple words of these eye witnesses
whom no mock-mode 3 y res.rained. Adam and
Eve before the fall we e shamelq« e xces\ of
innocence; tilAe "elicit ius creatures arrived at
one same point in the circle by travelling in a
directly opposite direction.
• * *
“ Tde com nl s’otied office’s come on
board,” sajs L’eutenant Bond, ‘ and as th y stand
upon deck select such females as ara most agree-
able in thair persons; who generally, upon tuch
occasions, endeavour to set therns.lves off to ths
best advantage. Ii this stite some have b’en
known to live for y<-ars, and to have borne
children The non-commissioned officers, then,
are permitted to select for themselves; the pri-
vates next; and lastly, those convicts who, having
Pinehurst
been In the country a considerable time, and
having realised some property, are enabled to pro-
cure the Governor’s permission to take to them-
selves a female convict ” Thus was the Scriptural
injunction to increase and multiply obeyed. Yet
it is signifloant that it was those convicts only
who had realized some property who were enabled
to “ procure” the Governor’s permission to fol'ow
the Mosaic coucsel, and thus enable their descend-
ants to brast with realistic truth of their “ ances-
tors by uu'chare. ’ But, after this process of selec
tion had been gona through, there wai still a re-
jected residuum left. Lieutenant Bond has no
scruple in telling us how the autho i ies disposed of
them “ The remainder, who are net thus chosen
are brought on shore and have small huts assigned
them ; but, through the want of some regular
employment, are generally concerned in every
artifice and villainy which is committed.” Then
follows a sentence which, to have its full signifi-
cance, must ha read beside what has h2en said of
the officers cf the “ rum-selling corps." “ Females
of this description," it runs, “are usually em-
ployed in selling such cargoes of ships as are pur-
chased by the offioers.” This unholy partnership
bore its appropriate fruit in the disorders, the
outrages both illegal and legalised, and the
wholesale executions of this squalid time.
# # *
So the convict population entered upon
ts inheritance. There is a weird story told by an
old writer, in which he describes how a dead
man regains consciousness beyond the Aoheron,
and meets again ia tho world of shades
the forms of those whom he knew in life, and
from whom he thought he had parted for ever.
Some of the most dramatic passages in Dante’s
“Inferno ” are desciiptive of his meeting with the
damned souls of his Florentine acquaintances in
the Malebolge pool. The position of the newly-
arrived convict was not dissimilar. It is a dismal
parallel. Dead, and judicially damned by the
savage laws at home—there were over 300 capital
offences at the beginning of the century—he re-
gained consciousness after his long Styx-like
voyage to be in time for his re-awakening in hell.
The tortures were there, and the damned. One
of the first men Holt saw on his arrival was a
man whom he raw tried, and on whom he had
heard passed the awful sentence of death. Such
encounters were frequent. It was an eerie world,
peopled with criminal ghosts. The one thing
needful was the attendant demons. But the
New South Wales Corps was there, so that the
demons were never missed.
CORRESPONDENCE
Celt (BrLbane) : Paper yon mention has been
published regularly for some time. Apply for particulars to
the offiae, Sydnfy....J.S. (Sydney): The game isn’t worth
the cani le. The paper in question claims in some of the
advertisements to have the largest circulation of any paper in
IV, S W , and the daily to which it is attached states that it
has four times the circulation of any other paptr. The one
assertion bursts up the other... .W.S.B. : You don't seem
to know that the Sydney daily newspapers di-s conducted cn
purely commercial principles. For instance, when the Jen-
nings Government impcted a 5 per cent, duty on paper, the
daily Piess rounded on it like a flash of lightning. One
newspaper proprietor actually weot up to the Treasurer of
the day and threatened to write him out of office in a week.
Their patriotism is a matter .f 5 percent...L.S.O : What? ..
H. (Book wood) : When the local telegraph boy has to pass
the hat tilings must be ij a bad way in your tabernacle...,
H. (Abraham s bos m, lower studl: You say you wrote your
poem on Abraham s besom, but if you hadn’t mentioned it
we would probably have imagined it was written on an
empty stomach. ...Five Years’ Subscriber (Peteisham): The
Christmas Bulletin was sold out by G. 30 a.m. on Thurs'
day. Cons< quently, these who had secured a supply sold at
any price up to half-a-crown... .Cockney (Sydnevi- Tte-ei',
a paper published in which is devoted to engineer-
ing Subjects. We have forgotten the name at present,
bat you can find it in the Melbourne Directory
Signa (F irbes) :We don’t pan out much on ihe up-country
druek, uoltsi there are Eome points about him. Tfiere
aren tai y points about your drunk... .G. (Peat’s Ferry): If
ths pilot and engineer who hauled the latest nobis visitor
from home across the Hawkesbury received from that haugh y
lord two ehUings between them, after losing a work,
and buy’ng boots and boiled shirts for the occasion, they
w. re lucky. No lord hitherto has given more than a shilling
at a time to any “biassed colonial,” and ths only British
prince who ever came out here left a washing bill standirg
when he cleared out M.K. (Peat’s Fer;y) :We heve
alrt ady heard of Carnarvon and the sixpences Central
(Sydcey): We couldn’t publish your screed as requested,
neither could «e put it in the fire—also as requested, so we
threw it out of the window... .J.K. (Gouiburn) : Your tales
about the lccal Christmas drunk are hazy and painfully
local, and as c ull as last year's ditch into the bargain. As to
your remarks cn land reform, we s-y impressivi ly that
“ them's our sentiments exactly.”... .W.H.P.A. (Gippsland) •
Thanks. We remember your letter distinctly, but when you
say that you “ made The Bulletin show its colours in re
Freetrade v. Protection on September 27, 1887,’’ we object
The Bulletin first showed its colours on that subject ini he
primeval days when it was published on a gin-case in a one-
room establishment on the top floor.... Voice from the
Crowd (Albury): Your yarn about a long fthow named
Joseph, who was engaged to dig a hole, is too incoherent for
any Aryan citiz-n to understand.
The year of our Lord 1888 opens gaily in the rich
city of London. Even the lying cable at last
speaks the truth In these awful words
London, January 1, —The distress amorgst the unem-
plojel in London is assuming a terrible and hideous form
Oases of the mort horrible and heartrending suffering and
treatment are ocouring every day. Men, and women with
emaciated infants ciirging to their breasts, are actually
dying m the streets, with that grim horror starvation stariDg
at them. Men have been off< red relief i.i the workhouses,
but they have refused it, declaring that they will not submit
to be treated as paupers. They ciy, “We want work at
which we can earn a comfortable living!" Many of thesn
poor creatures are subsisting on garbage and refuse which
they pick up in the gutters.
London contains probably more wealth than any
other city on earth, and the millionaires who
build up Coercion Acts-the hereditary noblemen
who maintain their iron hold on the Jand which
they stole from the people centuries ago—the
blatant Tories who pen drivelliDg odes about the
contentment of the English people under the
beneficent sway of a Queen who has hoarded up
£11,000,000, look out of the windows of their
luxurious club 3 and behold—this. And it is these
same sons of the horse-leech who invite Aus-
tralia to federate with England, that they may
treat Australia as England has been treated.
+
From Melbourne Argus of 20th December, 1887.
(London correspondence)
If one might sum up the, events of the week in a line, it
would be to say that the Government are doing better of
late, and making considerable headway against the forces of
sedition and disorder. Pity it is that they should be handi-
capped y the tviden e of such rack-renting as has obviously
gone on oa the est >t-s of Colonel Tottenham and others
in Limerick and Tipperary. Here a gross rental of £3OOO
a-year has been cut down by the commissioners to £lBOO, or
a r Arcuon of 40 per cent. One of Colonel Tottenham s
tenants, paying £lB a-year, has got his rent reduced to£2 5s
And yet die poor man paid regularly up to last pay d»y
Evidence of this kind would cripple the efforts of the best
Government in the world,
The Conssrvative papers try to show that riots
in Trafalgar-square are like the Irish meetings,
nevertheless the starvation in Ireland is caused by
rentslike theabove. S arvation in Ed gland is caused
by want of work among the London masses.
True it i?, starvation is at the base of each. But
how different the proximat) causes of starvation,
unless, indeed, we attiibut i each to bad govern-
ment. Undsr good government no one need
starve oa the surface of this globe at the present
day. An intelligent republic is better even than
an intelligent despotism. How much better,
then, is an intelligent republic than an
unintelligent monarchy, such a 3 wd have now in
England ? And how many more murders are we
to have under the false Gospel of Law and Order
which is now being preached ? From every one
according to his abilities, to every one according
to his wants -is the doctrine of modern Socialism.
“ Grab as grab who can ” is the social doctrine of
our present pastors (like Jefferis) and masters.
How long, oh, Lord 1 how long 1 fceforj the cry
arises : ‘ - To your tents, oh, Israel !’’
Referee
The present writer never saw Dooley to
worse advantage than on Saturday night at
Foley's, when he contested eight rounds with
Costello, the ’Murkan. For the first couple ot
rounds Dooley appeared stage-struck, and Cos-
tello took a decided lead, but in the third round
the Sydneyite fought in something like his old
style and punished his man severely. From this
out Dooley had matters his own way, but Costello
was all there when corners were called for the
eighth round, and the (affair was declared a draw,
Dooley makes a mistake in being too eager to use
bis right. He is a left-handed fighter, with
which hand he is quick and a terrible punisher,
and had he played on Costello with it alone for
four or five rounds, he might have had a chance
of weakening the’Murkan sofficiently to get the
right on. Costello is no fighter, but his pluck
and agility make it a hard matter to knock Mm
out.
« * •
More horse-homicide. Daring the run-
nirg for Tattersalfs Club Cup, at Randwick, on
Monday, Yespasia, Silvermiae, and Invader came
down all of a heap. Yespasia, Invader, and the'r
riders were quickly on their feet, but Silvermine
and Alick Robertson lay prone, with a broken
back and a tractured skull respectively. Both
cases were homeless, and the jockey died in S%
Vincent’s hospital at 7 o’clocs on Tuesday morn|j
ing—another Tictlm to that sport which is almost
as fatal as many a camjalgn. The News, as
u ua), spreads itself over the “mangled form’’
and the “ blood bespattered body” lying on the
“ gore-stained course.” Death makes good “ copy”
for the evening press.
* * *
It. is said that thst British remark about
“faking the wicket,” had something to do with
th© auSeiiCo Ot certain prominent Sydney p'&yevs
in the match of Vernon’s team. It is not advis-
able for the stranger to tread on the Cornstalk's
tail.
* * •
How i 3 it that when Lily white’s team play
in Melbourne all the chosen members of the
M.C.C ate dtbarred by business engagements
from taking part in the match 1 The Buxletiv
has main 1 ained that ia the dispute bitween the
M.C.C and Lilywbite, the latter was in the
wrong, but when the ( lub pretends to hold out a
friencly band by lending t'eir ground, it is, with-
out doubt, bad form far the leading members to
kill all interest in the game by not playing.
Hanlan rather raised the bile of the
Clarence River people by not starting, as expected,
in the All-Comers race at their Regatta. He was
unwell going up in the steamer and did not feel up
to the mark, although he accompanied the race
in his shell, but the local men concluded that the
Canadian was putting on lordly airs, and got mad
accordingly.
* * *
Always take the odds on a cricket match.
There is money In it. At the conclusion of the
first innings of the Vic orians it was 50 to 1 on
Syrney. B?fore the winning hit was made It was
not more than two to one.
The Melbourne Ciub Eleven has been
marked by Mis'ortune for her own. Vernon met
with an accident on the boat, W. W. Read suffers
fromintermi.tentneuralgiainthe face, Hawkowas
unhappily, made into a Baron, and Billy Bates hss
received an ugly era kin the eye. Meantime the
Melbourne Club has got the hump. Their men
made an awful mess of the match against South
Australia, failing in the bowling department as
they did on the Sydney ground, and ultimately
chucking up the game amid groans and jeers. As
some excuse for their premature departure to ful-
fil the big Melbourne engagement, i) muse be ad-
mittt d that the South Australians played a weary-
ing innings. With the if rglishbowling fairly “in
a knot,” Giffen, Godfrey and Co. took two clear
days to knock up 439 runs. The visitors scored
about 40 per cent, faster than this.
* » *
Trotfc, the Victorian bowler, acts up to
his name. We believe he trots round with the
mails.
* * *
The “ demon ” Fpofforth was not even
asked to pl»y ia the Combined Eleven against
Vernon’s Britishers. Nineteen names were jotted
down, and Spoff.’s nob included in the batch.
This reminds us that the old order changeth and
that only the other day the fickle crowd jeered
Boyle, when Shrewsbury and Maurice Read hit
him whithersoever they listed.
• • #
At last the bottled-up Mozart has duie
something in keepitg with his old reputation.
The handicappers kept) weighting ihis horse quite
irrespective of his many failures, and only lately
has he got into any event under eight stone.
Mczart was considered to be “ fit ’ when he won
his races last week, but the chances are that when
they get him “ fitter ” he will cut up indifferently
as cf yore
* * *
As if to make amends for their Adelaide
muddle, the M.C.C. Englishmen gave a splendid
exhibition of plucky batting at Melbourne last
Saturday. They lost the first four wickets for 16
and six for 51. But, after luncheon—in exactly
three hours of actual play—the last four wickets
put on 219 runs. Such a performance is the more
remarkable, as English amateurs are notoriously
unreliable when a “funk" has been started, and
Vernon’s men deserve a little butter for upsetting
tradition. The way in which they “ tumbled ” to
Troth's howling, after he sent back four men for
10 runs, quite killed his chance of being included
in the next Australian Eleven. Troth lowered the
smallest Britishers—Peel and Abel—with conse-
cutive balls, but finished up the day with a poor
average, after all, the hitters gaining confidence
and punishing him as all “cunning” bowlers
(even the gi eat Peate) are liable to be punhhed
on a fairly dry turf.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal— “ Robinson Crusoe ’• ~ .14.
Criterion Theatre.—" Little Jack Sheppard".... „ ■■
Her Majesty's Theatre.— 1 "In The Ranks ■■
Dpera House— All Star Novelty Combination „..■■
Alhambra Musio Hall— Sacred Concert ........ ,
Alhambra Musio Hall— Minstrelsy ■■
Academy— Maccabe ■■
“Handand Glove,” a serio-corpaecomedy
filled with flying tea-things and other accessories,
was produced at Sydney Royal Standard on
S .turrfay in the preaeno i f one smill unfettered
bi y, and several bogus individuals who looked
lOLeoQme in the vastness of the theatrical desert.
The piece bears internal evidence, in the first two
acts, of having been written by a naked dramatist
with an axe, while the third ~c\ which is genuine
comedy, is weighed down i-.a the silent sarco-
phagus by the memory of what went before.
Messrs. Hand and Glove—private detectives and
general inquiry men, debts collected with
celerity and intelligence, missing friends and
lost dogs looked after—were admirably
played by Messrs. Hall and Arrowsmith,
and formed the only redeeming feature of
the drama. The other actors did a lot of gazing
at each other and spread out their legs in a de-
ranged way, which made the audience long to
run for a doctor and not get him in time; the
ladies, with the exception of Mrs. Melville, were
squeaky and fell over their own clothes; the
lawyer had apparently been boiled till he was
soft, and when the Colonel appeared on the scene
we went out to inform the authorities that some'
t hing had broken loose. Amid these surroundings,
the splendid comedy of Mr. Johnny Hall, and the
acting of Mr. Arrowsmith, who was only his
inferior by a shade, made us think of some-
thing the name of which we can’t recollect
just at the moment, that was cast before
whatsisname. On Monday night “ Hand and
Glove” gave place to “Across the Conti-
nent”—a melodrama which, in its awfulness,
would shake the morals of the virtuous kangaroo,
and make the wild emu, which feeis upon that
bounding marsup’al on the a-id plains, curse 'hi
day it was born, as more folly describ3d in the
eloquent language of Job. Everybody, except
Mr. Hall, talked in a roar and tiied to assssdna'e
somebody else over a mug of beer ; everybody
threw the furniture about and perspired, aud was
drunk ever afterwards ; everybody either kicked
a girl with a sweet voice in short petticoats,
or else rushed in to rescue her and made
a fool of himself, and the result was
sadder than a monkey writing a Jubilee ode. The
everlasting Hall, however, bore up amid all these
desperate surroundings and ran a rub. in a vein
of unspeakable comedy which kept his audience —
a tolerably large one—in a roar. Mr. Arrow-
smith, however, collapsed. He was cast for a
tragic downhill character with a spoiled plug-hat,
and he gave way under it. Any other man would
have done the same. Such a character, when
loaded on to a comedian, was like a piano hung
on a clothes-prop, and, after a gallant effort to
bear up, the prop naturally went.
*# * *
There Js still a considerable crowd every
night at Sydney Academy, where Fred Maccabe
plays his lone hand with gratifying results. Now
and then he presumes a little on the supposed ig-
norance of an Australian audience, and relieves
his mind of a chestnut of no ordinary magnitude,
or a pun which would rend the soul of a jackass,
but his wandering minstrel from Shoreditch or
Whitechapel cairies everything before him, espe-
cially when he commences to worry a tune in a
top-note which has deteriorated through much
Bleeping in damp parks, accompanied by
such variations as the Indo-European race
never heard before. The " waria ions,” as
he blandly explains, is a sort of ihing “as has a
wild-cat fight with the toon, and I bets ten to one
on the wariatlcn.” When his top-note—so called
from its resemblance to a cat on a chimney-top -
fails him the wandering minstrel “ cheeks it
houb,” and by these means he keeps himself sup-
plied with daily bread, though not with daily
boots. bhould misfortune ever come down on
him, Fred. Maccabe’s troubadour is good for £4
a week in coppers in King-street, Sydney, and we
are ready to go shares in the firm.
## * #
“Jack Sheppard” runs indefinitely at
Sydney Criterion. People who don’t know a B
flat note from a black ey e howl with glee in the
stalls; the tea hound, who makes his pile by sell-
ing us old brooms chopped up, and calling the
mixture orange pekce, yells the tdlow out of him-
self in the circle ; and a hydra-headed multitude
fills the pit and gallery. The amount of brute
force which goes off in perspiration at the
Criterion in a week is sufficient for three rows in
the Assembly and one street fight, and there is
enough over to haul a tram-car from this office
to Tophet.
** # *
“ In the Ranks,” one of the most beautiful
examples we know of a muscular young man
being supported by his tottering old uncle, will
progiess for some time longer at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney). The secret of the popularity of this
drama lies in the fact that the most of mankind
never had an uncle. If they had, (hey would
know that the deceptive brother of their pa
generally boards with his nephew and scares away
all his friends by the style in which he blows his
nose in a big red handkerchief, and ultimately
dies, leaving his wealth to be invested in stand-
up collars for the cannibals. At the present
moment there are 18 able-bodied men sleeping in
Sydney Domain by night and selling matches by
day, who might have gone into Parliament and
been insolvent three times for large amounts if
they had never possessed a rich und j.
*# # #
“Robinson Crusoe,” with the two monkeys
and the rest of the fixings, rages with consider-
able financial results at Sydney Royal. Also, at
the Gaiety, “The World Against Her" is well
attended, and the pathetic heroine who is banged
about on an empty stomach by the demon of dis-
cord, draws tears to the eyes of half the ladies in
the audience. Miss Dampier's Madge is a charm-
ing production, and after viewing it we lay our
red and battle-scarred nose in mournful tribute
upon the tomb of buried affection, and would fain
weep if it were not for our corns. We don’t weep
with our feet, of course, but ’the corns spoil the
flow of soul which used to be our most note-
woithy characteristic. Mr. Dampier announces
that “Faust” will be produced at the Gaiety
during the present seasoo, and if this wonderful
work fails to draw crowded houses, we will re-
gretfully write the population of Sydney down
an ass.
## # #
The Bondi Aquarium was densely crowded
on Monday, and fully 15,000 people parted with
their legal tender at the gates. In the rink, the
Bkateis were compelled to stand on top of each
other, and the excitement rose to a great height
when the Australian Blondin started to walk
from one cliff to the other upon a rope, but it
went down again when he arrived at the end of
his trip alive. Most people go to a show of this
kind with a lurking hope that somebody will be
killed. The evening closed with an illumination
and a variety entertainment.
#* * #
Frank Clark, at Sydney Opera House,
has improved somewhat on his original programme.
Wilson and Cameron’s dummies are a consider-
able advance upon the howling waste of “The
Two Macks,” and Ouda has added a jump of 50
feet to his previous a*tempts to acquire sudden
death. The “Bald-teadedswell” is good, but rather
personal - our own hair isn’t what it used to be —
and Mdle. Garetta’s performances with her bevy
of pigeons are as pretty as they well can be. At
this point we stop with an apology and a promise
to be more explicit next week. The fact is that
we sent down an unreliable Anarchist to repre-
sent us at the Opera House, and have been basely
deceived. The Anarchist hasn’t turned up.
*# * *
Judging by the overwhelming audience
which greeted the rising of the curtain on Boxing
night, the Adelaide Royal seems likely to be
“ Held by the Enemy ” for some time to come.
The various characters taken by Mesdames J.
Watt-Tanner, Isabel Morris, and Messieurs B. N.
Jones, H. Fleming, and Nelson Decker, were ex-
cellently rendered, and the scenery was a burst of
glory. Tommy Hudson played last Wednesday
for the hundred and seventh time, and is still
scooping the pool, with Miss St. John as first
A BACK VIEW
favourite. The latest novell y is the engagement
of Prince Bungeroo and Khan Itcbi, who go
through various clever acrobatic feats.
# # # #
Brough and Boucicault’s good-looking
company are wrestling with ‘ Sophia’ 1 —an in-
nocuous comedy founded upon “Tom Jones’ —
at Melbourne Bijou. Being a strictly modem
combination, they haven’t quite clutched the
spirit of things as they were when Fielding wrote
the first English novel. What was wanting in
“ School for Scandal ” is wanting now—a certain
breadth or length or depth, which history attri-
butes to our boozy forefathers. With this vague
exception “ Sophia ” is honestly dealt with at the
Bijou, The plot is old and simple—
Said the Squire to Sophia—
“ Tom Jones you may admire,
But I won't let that young liar
With my gal’s affections trifil;
I desire (said the Squire)
That you listen to your sire ;
As a husband you require.
Make a match with Mr. Blifil,”
The outcast Thomas goes to London with Barber
Partridge, Sophia leaves the Squire, and takes up
with Lady Bellaston (a forward minx who always
wears a low neck dres3 and feathers in the vain
hope of sneakiig Sophia’s young man), everybody
gets into a tangle, and the perfidious Blifil has
nearly done the job when a rostic “ bit of mus-
lin ” confounded his knavish tricks, and Sophia
takes Thomas with the Squire's blessing. It is
worth noticing that the heroes of old comedies
never earn a cent, but get untold gold from
elderly friends to enable them to live and die in a
condition of luxurious matrimony. Tom Jones,
as plajed by Mr. Cecil Ward, is a miserable sort
of a cuss after they bid him shift for himself, and
yet he drops in for somebody’s big cheque. Mr.
Phil. Beck makes Blifll a cross between a curate
and an undertaker, while Mr. Boucicault’s Squire
Western inclines to the grotesque A game
Partridge is Mr. Titheradge ; the very toul of
Honour is in Miss Patti Brown’s representation
of that volatile lady’s maid. All the minor parts
are neatly rounded off, and language fails to fur-
nish a notion of Miss Trevelyan as Lady Bellas-
ton, afad Miss Boucioault in the name part. Their
beauty makes us glad
* # # #
On Boxing Night, a gruesome foagedy,
called “ Jack the Giant-Killer and Little Bo-
Peep,” was let loose at Melbourne Royal. The
author of this trying complaint ia Mr. Maltby,
who is believed to have had special designs up n
the dear children, judging from a rough diagnosis
of the symptoms. The plot of “Jack,” &c , is
far-reaching, and tends to induce slumber on a
warm night, although everyone ought to be called
in time to catch the transformation scene—a sweet
piece of work entirely. Several popular per-
formers are doomed to appear in the opening, but
their genius is allowed to ran to seed. A new
song-and-danoe divinity—Miss Frances Coventry
—is rather fresh and charming, and some live
lamb 3 appeal to the squatter’s tenderesb feelings.
Mr. John Gourlay does his level best in the harle-
quinade, which distinctly suggests something
comic every now and again. The Triumvirate
have set up this show in liberal style, and busi-
ness keeps big so far.
*# # #
“ Erminie ” fills Melbourne Princess’s in
all weathers and shall have the causes of this
howling success carefully dissected next week.
We would also give just cause or reason why the
fickle multitude continues to gloat over “ Current
Cash,” at the Opera House, but the secret is
unfathomable, Coghill Bros, are gathering in
golden grain, and Silk Stockings include some
new and shapely legs. Bach of these shows is
real good goods of its kind.
## # #
The London Bat goes in for sarcasm :
It is officially stated that Miss Eastlake is not married. I
am sure I do not know who made the absurd announcement,
or who she was said to be married to. Such statements are
calculated to injure actresses in their profession, and I
should say that either party could recover damages.
“Calculated to injure actresses in their pro-
fession 1”
** * *
A Chinese theatrical manager named Leon
Ye Keung proposes to bring a troupe of Mongol
tragedians to Australia “to elevate the public
t ste." Hi-jah! Ah Chew! Yep! Hi-kum!
Hit y!
The Ashfield Recreation
Ground prerented a gorgeous spec-
tacle on Monday night. Mr. Pain
uncorked a demoniac display of un-
usual magnificence, shewing the
Falls of Niagara in red and blue
flames, Lord Carington done in
blaze 3, and a multitude of other
devices Something like 3000
people indulged in the slippeiy joys
of the ska;ing link, aid the Kings-
ley brother's did some wonderful
feats on the treacherous ticycle, a
means of locomo ion which, when
ever the present writer gets on it,
rises up and welts him across the
Bkull, and the Naval Artillery Band
performed at intervals The man-
agement has now made a perma-
rent arrangement with Mr Paio,
who will pyrotechnate at Ashfield
every Thursday night.
#* # #
There is in Australia a well-
known tragedian renowned for his
swearing and other eccentricities
when on the stage. He has been
known to wear an arl illeryman’s
coat as Claude Melnotte, and an an-
timacassar with the word “ Bread”
marked on it, when playing Cardi-
nal Richelieu. He is not a bad
actor, but bis talents have been per-
force relegated to the back-blocks,
where he has performed several
plays, supported by his wife and
one other actor only.
*# # #
“ T*a Hours at Hame ” Ken-
nedy, who died last j ear at Ontario,
Canada, left a sum ot £BO 000. After
the death o! his widow his fortune
will be divided between tix of his
children. Ten are mentioned in the
will, but four of them died after
it was executed. Robert Kennedy,
now traveling in the colonies, is
not named in the wi'l, and it is sup
posed that lie was cut off by his
father wi orn he had offended by
starting in the S otch song business without per-
mission. Tt>e elder Kennedy had only £3O when
he arrived in London in 1868 but the Seotoh colony
took him up and made his fi;st appearance a big
botm,
#* # *
Mr. Robert Brough, though not yet in hiß
old Jons then Wild form, was sufficiently conva-
lescent to show up at the Melbourne Cricket
Grour don Saturday. Mrs. James Brown Potter
travelled from Paris ti her native wilds in com-
pany with her father and her child. She took the
old man alorg to see to the 40 trunks and the 133
band-boxe3, aud she bad to take the in'ant
because not one of the duchesses of her acquaint-
ance would let io graze in her nursery till she
came back. It was published ii the Melbourne
papers the other day that a man lost £l2 in the
“ crush” at one of the theatres, while getting his
ticket. The cunning hand of Business Manager
Brown or Treasurer Harwood is to be traced in
i his little ad. The next time, a man and a boy
will be killed in the vestibule of the Royal, under
heartrending circumstances. W. G. Carey, actor,
has degenerated into keeping a pub. at Richmond
(Vie,) The husband of a popular vocalist sent
Her Gracious a Jubilee present and was knighted.
He went down on his knees all right, but couldn’t
get up again ; in f aon, he was so fat that he hadn’t
seen his own legs for 10 jears, and he came down
flat on his countenance before the throne.
Carrie Swain is holding forth to the insolvent
Presbyterians of Dunedin (NT Z). It is rumoured
in London that Gilbert's Btock of ideas
bas given out for the time, and that he
is going to gw s. New York Truth gives a
melancholy account of how that unknown, neg-
lected individual, Brown Potter, sat sighing in
the Fifth Avenue Theatre, watching his wife as
she was hauled about the stage by Kyrle Bedew.
Mary Anderson figures in the London print-shops
with the sluggers, Smith and Sullivan, on each
side of her. The bodices of the two gentlemen
are cut a trifle low; in fact, they have nothing
on between the hair and the waist, and Mary is
in almost the same predicament. Mr. Musgrove
has been sued by a doc or, who says he poured
£2l worth of medicine into Nellie Stewart at his
orders. Our dear, old, pretty, benevolent friend,
Ada Ward, got a good “ ad.” in London lately, by
offering to adopt a boy who was brought up for
something or other in the Police Court. The
magistra e declined, however ; so did the boy. A
trapeze-performer aud a pianist were hitohed on
to a travelling variety show, and they both had a
demmiac stutter. “W—w—w—wh —hat sh —
sh sh—-shall I p—p—p—(to be continued in
our next) —lay ? ” inquired the pianist as the acro-
bat alighted on the stage. “Ohl n—n—n—n—
ever m—m—(&o., &c,, &c.) mind, they’ve all 1—
1- (&c.) left,” replied the other.
A writer in a N Z. paper says that all
games of chance are strictly forbidden to the Jews.
This is trus. There is no chance with a Hebrew
bookmaker.
The great trouble with men who borrow
from Peter to pay Paul Is that they don’t pay
Paul.— Puck,
Coroner’s juries are now paid for their
servioes in Melbourne, and local journalists have
adopted an independent, not to say arrogant,
bearing.
Ah How, of Sydney, is an agreeable
Chinaman, and a credit to his grandfather. He
had a substantial feed at a Pitt-street restaurant
on Monday, and hadn’t any money to settle up.
However, he agreed to work out the score, and
being entrusted with a carving knife with which
to labour among the victuals and spread infection,
he ran amuck through the hash-house, and
scattered everybody and everything. Two men
are now in the hospital as the immediate result of
Ah How’s little feed.
The people of Hillston (N.S.W.) are
shortly to be blessed by Government with a new
stock rou*e to Trids. The present track is almost
a straight line, covering some 60 miles of ground,
but the new and improved route goes backward
about 20 miles, and then dodges off about 35 miles
to the left; next it wobbles in a long slant of 25
miles or thereabouts, towards nowhere in par-
ticular, and finally it repents and does a straight
run of about 70 mile .'to its final destination. This
sort of thing amuses the inhabitants a good deal.
“ The remains of three different parties of
miners have been found in the Kimberley Ranges,”
says a Sydney daily paper. More than likely this
is true. Thanks to the false reports of uuprln-
clpled, one horse power storekeepers, connived
at by large Australian mercantile firms, and
steam boat companies, and backed by the endorse-
ment of a stupid or culpable Governor, many
hundreds of poor fellows were lured away from
good positions and comfortable homes in the
several colonies, to go to that land of fever,
scurvy, dysentery, and untimely death. In the
struggle for life there, it was not the ailments that
flesh is heir to which were the most ins'diou3 or
the most destructive to life. Man’s greatest
enemy was man himself. The barbed spear of the
blackfellow, and the revolver-bullet ot he white
man, were powerful auxiliaries of King Death.
In the Northern terrltoiy of S.A. the
tailoring trade has now passed almost en'irely
into the hands ot Mongols and Cingalese. Wn> n
an occasional swell finds his wav to these litigator-
haunted wilds, and paralyses the native inte’h ot
by an order for a dress ocat, he gets it fresh from
the haunts of leprosy and with infection in every
fold from the collar to the tail, but then the po- r
bt nighted new chum doesn’t know ic and is happy.
The garment has been pawed over by skinny
yellow fingers, and sat upon in opium dens, and
has seen strange sights in the coal-hole where the
Chinese cheap labour roosts at the back of the
fan-tan establishment, and has acquired experi-
ence from the cabbagee man who came round in
the evening to talk to the tailor and lend his own
particular odour to the mixed atmosphere ; snd
then the verdant youth who has come out to this
“ blawstei country” to get a few colonial ideas,
dontchewknow, carries round all the assorted
germs from these various haunts of joy, and never
dreams that he has more experience on his back
than ha wifi ever get into his head though he
should live for as many years as the patriarchs of
old.
The new Croydon (Q.) goldfield is the
chosen home of almost every biting, crawling
thing on earth. There the alligator wrestles for
pre-eminence with the humble bub attentive flee,
and the horse-stinger’s dreary anthem aggravates
the bull-dog ant, the Norfolk Howard, and the
sand-fly, while the blow-fly wheels its sorrowful
flighCto the putrefying dog, and the jleech lies in
wait In the muddy swamp, and the snake
walketh in darkness, Nature h»s left nothing
out that is calculated to swell up the greenhorn’s
head to three times its natural dimer sloes, and,
having thus got everything ready, she entrapped a
wild, fresh son of the sod named Jack Whalen,
and sent him up to wrestle with theso accumu-
lated horrors. He had a nice time cf it By day
he was a raging terror with a big stick, but at
night ho wrapped his head in cheern cloths, and
alternately cursed and wept for his old home in
MacgUllcuddy’s mountains. Io became a
recognised fact at last, that the man
who wanted to wreak a fiendish revenge on Jack
Whalen had only to persuade him to come out
ofjbis cheese-cloths after dark, and one e ?il mindt d
wretch ultimately did it. At midnight’s solemn
hour an unknown voles told Ireland’s wandering
child that his mate was being kilt entirely in the
gully, and three shadowy forms gave way to sup-
pressed laughter as they saw the deluded stranger
tear across the hill with nothing on him but a
shirt and a club. Then they stole the cheese
cloths and retired. Down in the gully, mean-
while, Jack searched for an hour, while ac-
cumulated evils preyed upon his legs, and finally
he came back to find that his impromptu mosquito-
curtains were gone The scene closes with a
tremendously swollen Irishman wandering round
wid a bit of a shtick.
Charitable people who have parted so
much of their legal tender for the Queen’s Fund,
and the Parkes Fund, to say nothing of testi-
monials to scullers and obher movements, are
hereby invited to give a little of what they hive
eft to a mau In genuine distress. Some 24 years ago,
Mr. Piggott was one of the chief founders of the
Liberal party in Victoria, and, in company with
Chief Justice Higinbotham, and Messrs. M‘Cul-
loch, Verdon, and Michin, he took a leading p»rb
in the Conference at Melbourne which did so much
to shape the policy of the Sou f hern colony. He
afterwards came to New South Wale 3 as
the champion of the Joachims, who claimed
the right of the mining community to select land,
against Sir John O’Shanassy and Sir James
Martin, and raised funds for the famous appeal to
the Privy Council which ended in the overthrow
of the squatting party In later years, Mr. Piggott
held a position in the N.S W. Railway Department,
which he quitted to join the staff of the Wagga
Wagga Advertiser. He was a member oi theSelec-
tors’Conference which was largely instrumental in
overturning the corrupt Land Act) of 1861,
and did much good service to N.S. W. in other
directions. Two years ago, however, he was
attacked by fever at Cairns (Q.), and became hope-
lessly blind. Mr. Piggotb and his young family
are now in Sydney, helpless and utterly destitute,
all their small belongings having b en sold o buy
food, and an appeal is made for assistance to one
who has throughout his career ever done bis leirnl
best for his country, and who, through no fa sic of
his own, has, in the prime of his manhood, fallen
under the heavy hand of an incurable affliction.
In addition to his o her troub es Mr Pggot>’s
eldest; son is a hopeless cripple, aid is incapable
of earning anything towards his livelihood.
Any donations sent to The Bulletin office will
be thankfully acknowledged, and considering how
much money has been raised of late as charity to
the rich and reckless, we trust that on this occa-
sion the country will not fail to grant it to cue
poor.


Study your own interest by using Parnell's Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour It is made in colony from
the best colonjai wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.*
Pepper
And
Salt
We did not like to sadden a damp yet
would-be jovial Christmas by this tale of tragedy,
so we held it over until now. And now it must
come out or we will explode. A curs aon to the
head of the man who first invented Christmas
picnics. Another end an especially hot curse on
the individual who first designated Christmas
a “ festive” season, when ho knew all the time
that it was about as festive as the open smile of a
skeleton. Ten years ago we went to one of these
deceiving entertainments in the far and arid
North, where the sun tends strictly to business in
the dog-days, and where every dog has his day,
and very few of the days are fit for a dog to be
out in. A listless party sat round on the sands
and on some bull-ants. We were not then the
elevated individual w a have since become, and we
sat with the rest to wolf the ham and drink tea
out of pannikins Then we discovered that
there was no water, and, consequently, there
could be no tea. So the ham was eaten dry, and,
when it was disposed of, ten individuals, each
with his tongue hanging out of his mouth, went
forth to look for water. Among us, we covered
an aggregate distance of 54 miles, and found not
so much as a drop, and an attempt to quench our
feelings by licking a gum-tree proved futile. So,
under a blazing attar noon sun, our party tottered
home, and finished a festive Christmas clutching
the filter. Years have rolled on since then, but
we have never faced a picnic since, and we have
fixed up a large red affidavit that, unless there is
a Moses in the party to strike the rock, we never
will.
* * *
Neil Gordon M‘ln tosh, late grave-digger
at St. Kilda (Melb ) Cemetery, was discovered
hanging from a tree in Albert Park. Temporary
insanity, brought on by business anxieties, we
suppose :
The Crown Prince of Germany’s “ cancer ”
is assuming a comical appearance, after all. It
has looked angry, malignant, hopeless, and criti-
cal. Now it begins to look like a first-class pro-
fessional joke played upon a nervous patient and
his gullible old relatives. As Sir Morell Mac-
kenzie has been scooping the cream of the joke,
we must gently reprove that canny Scotchman :—
Box and Cox have come to life again in
London, and are swearing in the police court
against a lady -whose front name is Eliza and
■whose hind name is sometimes Box and some-
times Cox. Eliza, it appears, married Box, who
was employed on night-duty somewhere, leaving
home at 5 in the evening and returning at 7 a m.,
tndshe also became the happy bride of Cox,
whose hours of labour were from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.
She thought this was great fun at first, but she
soon found herself wretchedly deceived. She
spent the night with Cox, but the instant he went
out in the morning she had to get out of her com-
fortable b-d and fly through the cold dismal
streets to the residence of Box, where she had
half-an-hour to kindle the fire and get breakfast
ready. Then she had her housework to do, and
about noon she had to tear away again, leaving
Box wrappei in slumber and do more housework
and get Cox’s dinner ready. When that horny-
handed son of toil had returned to his emploj -
ment, and she bad washed up the dishes, it was
time for her to rush back to the other domicile
where the chances were that Box was prema-
turely awake and howling for his dinner,
and wanting to know “ wot she ’ad been
hout for I ” and the miserable slave had
to pacify him and rake up another
meal. She had already eaten dinner with
Cox, but she had to eat another with Box to
allay suspicion, and she had also to take tea with
Box and then fly the moment his back was turned
to get tea ready for Cox. By this time the
wretched female joki it had run about seven miles
and W3S ready to drop, but she had to bear up
and have another tea with Cox, and sit with him
during the evening, and then at night she would
lie awake and dr a w fancy pictures of Box return-
ing unexpectedly and finding her not at home. On
Sundays both husbands were at homo during the
day though Box had to go out at night as usual,
and then the unhappy woman had to spend her 1
whole time in tearing backwards and forwards.
Twenty-five miles was the average distance which
she accomplished on the Day of R»st, and when
she wasn’t running she was explaining to one hus-
band that she had been out at Sunday-school, or to
the other that she had just returned from church,
and the evening generally closed by her being
soundly walloped by each of the deceived pair.
Box used a strap on these occasions, and while
she was still weeping from this infliction Cox
would lay on to her with a long cane. Both of
them hit her in the same place, and, as a rule,
it was Wednesday before she could sit up straight.
Cox came home early, too, on Saturday after-
noons, and as she was necessarily away at that
time attending to the domestic wants of Box, and
could seldom invent a feasible excuse for her
absence, the chances were ten to one that another
breezy thrashing resulted, which lefb her in bad
case for the inevitable discipline of Scnday. She
had a double allowance of floors to scrub at d a
double lot of stockings to darn, and washing-day
came twice a week, and when she got ill she had
to tear round just the same, ss she had two
houses to be ill in, and yet dared not collapse and
rest in either. At last, when she had eaten about
350 more meals than she wanted, and had run, on
a low estimate, 2700 miles, she gave up, and told
TONSORIAL ARTIST (to little Sympkins, who is very proud, of a very little scrubby moustache):
“I CAN GIVE YOU SOMETHING TO STOP THAT!”
Cox all. She explained that Box was her first
love, and Cox, being a conscientious man, replied
that, in that case, Box was the only individual
who had a right to thrash hsr. He, therefore,
took her aloDg with him, and explained matters,
and then Box whaled her till she could hardly
stand. This function being completed, they
jointly, severally, and individually called in a
policeman and gave her into custody, and each
started to do his own cooking for the future. As
for Eliza, she languishes in a dungeon, and it is
not yet decided what is to become of her. It is
the first rest she has had far seven months.
* *
An important case came on for hearing a
few days ago, before the over-worked beak at
Rockhampton (Q ). It was a blazing hot morn-
ing ; the magistrate was drowsy, the policemen
slept standing and woke up convulsively at inter-
vals, the Archimedean lever dozed in its box, and
reached out during interludes of partial wakefulness
to make a note of something, and nobody could
understand the matter in dispute, which lay be-
tween a violent plaintiff and a bewildered foreign
defendant. The plaintiff was afflicted with a
hideous mumble, and, be ng sworn, he stated that
an unfathomable gyration had gone on between
him and the defendant, which nad ended in the
latter bull-headed son of a gun owiDg him the
Lord knows what, and then he triumphantly
handed over 16 sheets of paper ooverad with
assorted kitten-tracks and diro, and asked his
Worship to look at them. The dajected Bench
waded through them, and found they had no bear-
ing on the case, whereupon the plaintiff remarked
that perhaps he had made a mistake, and felt in
the purlieus of his pockets and the bowels of his
hat until he disentombed a rag of paper, which,
he said, contained the “ k’rekt account." I] was
even dirtier than the others, and looked as if it had
been filed away in a goat-stable and chewed up and
walked upon and then found and wiped by the
plaintiff on tae tall of ihe defendant’s coat, but in
the centre of it was a blob of dirt and a demand
in violent language for £l3 old, or he would make
the defendant's nose bleed, and there were foot-
marks round the edge. The magistrate read this
also and then tried vainly to explain that he
wanted particulars of the claim, but this only
made the plaintiff foam and exhibit contempt of
court, and finally the “ cadi ” fell back on the wild
foreign defendant who stuttered and wasn't on
speaking terms with the English language. This
gentleman stated, amid a cloud of battered parts
of speech, that he was remember of the plaintiff
so long as ever was, and was know of nothings
anywhere as to which it was possible that where
the plaintiff was or anybody else this day before
this honourable court in which he now appear.
Further, he thought that, in any case, wherefore he
hear that as was now, though why he couldn’t
say, as not speaky the language so well as more
so. But he was prepare to testifate that not any-
how was he or at any other time. He made these
statements to an Irish policeman, and kept his
back to the magistrate the while, so that if the
Bench wanted to take his coat-tails in its mouth
it could do so at any moment, and he grew
excited and frothed a good deal as he went on.
When at last the beak got a word in edgeways
the pilgrim from a foreign Btrand produced
another dirty piece of paper from down his back,
and represented that it was the connecting link
between the hideous lie as whioh the plaintiffeer
did go away for to produce, and the real facts as
how they did complicate on the chawed-up invoice
already in the hands of this honourable gourt
So the court took the paper end gazed upon it. Is
represented a hog seeing snakes after being
out late, and at the foot was a hieroglyphic in
some red foreign tongue, which, in the opinion
of the polyglot policeman attached to the estab-
lishment, read “ Mynheer von Dunk, he never got
drunk.” At this stage the case was indignantly
dismissed, but the defendant, who evidently
thought his property was at stake, continued to
give evidence in the box for five minutes more,
and when he was informed that he had won, and
a kindly policeman removed him outside he said
he would *' abbeal.” When lasL seen he was still
testifying in an informal manner on the pavement]
and showing his dirty piece of paper to casual
passers-by, to whom he stated that he wanted
ohustice" the same as was got in Shernrainee as
which he was grieve that he ever came away
from,
* • •
A joke was recently played on a N.S.W,
station-master which nearly led to a cold-blooded
and brutal assassination in the first degree. He
was away on business in a district tnat didn’t
know him from Adam, and was accompanied by
a friend who resided in the locality. About lunch
time, the latter made for a station on the Mur-
rumbidgee, where he was received with rapture,
and the fatted calf, or some equally symbolical
specimen of meat, was slaughtered on his account,
but the manager was frozen out and treated with
scorn. The hosb viewed him with a cold, arro-
gant gaze, which hurt his feelings; he got the
scrag end of the fowl and the coldest potato, the
liquor, quite accidentally, wouldn't go round, and
he was lefc dry; nobody spoke to him, and the
ladies of the house regarded him with a super-
cilious eye, as if he were a boos-canvasser or a
quantity of stale tarts. On leaving, the flabby
flipper of friendship was effusively offered to bis
companion, whila the manager’s salatation was
received with an icy grin, which seemed to say,
“ Take the animal away ! ’ “ Well, your friends
are dashed sociable,” said the aggravated victim
to his friend, whan they were once more cn their
way. “I think a decent thief would have been
treated more civilly than I.” Then his friend
smiled wistf ally, and said that it would have been
all right, only—for an experiment, don’t you
know, and not meaning any harm —he had told
their entertainers that the manager was the agent
of the Shearers’ Union. He was quite pleased
with the result, he said, bub the manager became/
dangerous for the rest of the day.
* * * C'
This overworked land of damps, blue
devils, and madness owes a debt of unfathomable
grabitude to the man who edits the Canterbury
(N.Z ) Times. At the present moment we are
unable to give his name, but if we ever meet h m
at sea snd are both sick o rer the same rail— if we find
him holding forth drunk in a public-house with
his coat-tails oa Are —or if we should eh an c a to
come across him endeavouring vainly to get a pig
through a gate, or in any other difficulty, we shall
esteem it a privilege and an honour to give him
all the support our moral influence can confer, and
will back him up till he won’t know where he is.
In a recent issue of the Times, this gentleman
announced a priz 3-story competition, and
stated in emphatic terms that any tile containing
a rich uncle who suddenly comes home to put
things straight would go into the waste-paper
basket. Also, any narrative in which a ghost
wanders through a large rumbling building, or a
moated grange, or an ancestral hall, or a gloomy
ruin, or bounds over an arid plain, or in which a
spectre shrieks amid the mouldering walls of an
ancient priory, or where a gobiin clanks its chains
in an unwholesome dur geon, or in which the storm
fiend howls, &c. The heroine with the wealth of
golden ba'r straying luxuriantly over her shoulders
is disallowed, also the girl with the pink, shell-like
ear, and the one with a depth of dreamy iocgirg
in her violet eyes, and the one who sings a simple
veree of a simple song and then goes mad duriDg
a thunderstorm. A tall man with a blonde
moustache, or a gigantic ravage armed with an
axe, will not be tolerated for a moment, and any
beautiful lady who reigns over a barbarous king-
dom, which can only be reached by an under-
ground passage, will be torn up. Maps on shirt-
fronts, maps on sheets, table-cloths, cuffs, baby
underclothing, or Japanese vases, maps on school-
slates, maps on plates, saucers, cups, or any other
articles in domestic use, maps on oil-cloth, parch-
ment, calico, paper, human skin, or bull hide,
showing the way to a buried treasure, no
matter how difficult of translation they may
be, or how mouldy or undecipherable from
old age, are strictly prohibited, also underground
fires, wattles, the handsome, well connected
young man from home who Is getting colonial ex-
perience on a station, and who wins the daughter
of the squatter in spite of the opposition of a
dancing-master thinly disguised as a French
Count, and bloodshed of all kinds, including
sudden death. Also, the editor will view oompe
titors with a more kindly eje if they won’t put in
a lover standing on a damp pavement, and watch •
ing the slavey’s shadow on a blind under the itr ■
pression that it is his own girl’s reflection. We
regard these conditions as the first step towards a
general purification of colonial literature, and we
give the originator of this noble move a free “ad.”
with feelings of unwonted gratitude.
May you have, poor Neil Gordon,
All the rest your spirit craves—
On the other side of Jordan
Angels don’t go in for graves ;
Freed from toil, and care, and pain,
You won't need your spade again.
Did you, while a-hanging, wonder
How your own grave would be dug ? —
You, who’ve put so many under,
Tucked ’em up and left ’em snug ?
Did you, with a final sigh,
Hope it would be deep and dry ?
How came it, Neil, you decided
Thus to quench the vital spark,
And of a sudden suicided
From a tree in Albert Park ?
Could it be that you were haunted
By the people you had planted ?
Did grim goblins come complaining
In the midnight hour to you,
That, whene’er it had been raining,
Sure enough the “damp came through ?"
But something tells us this is bosh—
So, good-bye, Mr. MTntosh,
O! artful Mackenzie,
You drove us to frenzy
By fooling about with that “ growth ”
Symptoms mysterious—
Harmless, then serious
Say, are they either or both ?
We’re getting indignant;
That cancer malignant
Which threatened all efforts to foil,
Is now a mere tumour,
According to rumour—
Next week we shall hear it's a boll.
Your bulletins trioky
Imposed upon Vicky,
Our Fritz's papa and his wife ;
The game’s very simple—
A Prince has a pimple,
And you, clever dog ! save his life.
BRIEF MENTION.
Last year 138 leprous Mongols arrived in
New Zealand and paid poll-tax ; 323 arrived and
didn’t pay anything.
A Ballarat man who pleaded guilty to
stealing a horse has been acquitted. The jury
thought he was more liar than horse thief.
A wise Chinaman pays the poll-tax and
posts the receipt to his brother in Shanghai, but
the foolish Mongol is fined £2O. New proverb b;
The Bulletin.
A Sydney man got three months last week
for throwing stones at a Chinaman. When John
throws typhoid at a white man in the form o
vegetables he generally gets paid for it.
A man known as Ccck Robin died in Ire
land the other day, and now the question which
has upset nurseries for centuries is definitel;
answered. Bad whisky killed Cock Robin.
An Anglican parson was picked up tight
in the streets of Brisbane, a few days ago. He
was an exception to the rule. Most parsons can'
be picked up by anything weaker than a steam
crane.
Anti-Chinese Potts says that the Mongols
are now acting as lawyers in Northern Queens
land. This is a truly shockiag example of the
depth of abasement to which the disorganisec
Chow csn sink.
The diocese of Paris sent the Pope, inter
alia, as a Jubilee gilt, a number of flannel petti-
coats and baby clothes. Bis Holiness is going to
distribute these amongst the poor of Rome, Of
courte. They aren't any earthly use to him.
Melbourne Herald says that the art of
soldiering does not consist In a man’s wearing a
red cloak and clanking his sword. Well, not
entirely. The servant girls have to be mashed,
and military buttons want a deal of polishing.
The wife of a certain N.S.W. politician
openly announces, in trams and other public
places, that “Me and dear Lady Carington is
just like sisters.” We believe this assertion to be
perfectly true. Nearly half the sisters we know
don’t speak to each other.
The Tamworth News spates that “the
examination of Lord Augustus Loftus, in his in-
solvent estate, has been adjourned until January
26, Anniversary Day, as a delicate compliment to
N, S.W.” For a stumped and melancholy country,
this is the unkindest cut of all.
The Albury correspondent of the Sydney
Evening News is obviously an Irishman. In
telegraphing a prize-fight report the other day he
observed that “ blood was Been on Hayes.” Evi-
dently he had expected to see something quite
different on the battered pugilist—eau-de-Cologne,
may be.
Sir Robert Wisdom says that Australia is
ahead of England in fruit. It is also ahead in
snakes, bull-ants, cockroaches, gophers, wattle,
profane politicians, and bush ram, and it can
leave the effete mother country absolutely no-
where in rabbits and leprosy. Also in centipedes.
England isn’t much of a country at the best. Ad-
vance Australia 1
A Mr. Morgan has found gold in North
Wales—two or three pennyweights at one fell
swoop—and now he has solemnly dedicated bis
ungot gains to national purposes, “ after making
provision for his family.” For childlike faith in
quartz specimens, Mr. Morgan comes in an easy
winner. We have hundreds of mines in Australia
which we will hand over to the British nation
without dedicating anything at all.
We dearly love a lord. The other day
Lord Carnarvon wrote to the S.M. Herald to
deny a report that he was in favour of Irish Home
Rule and against ba’liffs and bayonets, and that
large and heavy journal printed his remarks under
the “Latest Intelligence,” and close behind lhe
frontier news and Crown Prince items. When
Lord Carnarvon’s remarks are called “intelli-
gence,” what on earth is the Herald's definition
of “brains ?”
Civilisation has done a lot for the Aus-
tralian aborigines. At Maryborough (Q,), the
other day, a benighted blackfellow was conveyed
to the lock-up in a cart. He was too drunk to
walk, and the charge was disorderly conduct “ an'
tearin’me uniform,” just the same as if he had
been a white man. Some t xcuse for his falling
off may be found in the circumstance that the
local Harmy imported three brass bands in honour
of Christmas.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mudgee Taylor has gone broke. ~*bonKf* ™
Premier Gillies received a deputation in
his shirt-sleeves. Parkes receives his deputations
with a cool front.
The Mayor of North Rockhampton (Q.)
is in trouble about £13,000 worth of alleged
forgeries. Apparently, he has cleaned out the
town.
Sir T. M‘llwraith is credited with putting
on 200 men at the Reid’s Creek copper mine*,
which have just been floated at home. Copper
will pay at £B3.
The Duke of Manchester arrived in Bris-
bane on 22ad, and left on 23rd December. No
public notice whatever was taken of “His
Grace’s” visit. Bravo, Brisbane !
Jake Gaudaur can go one better than
Hanlan in the way of excusf s. He attributes his
de'eat by Teemer to incipient rheumatism, which
must have developed during the race.
“The Bishop of Ballarat has kissed the
Pope’s toe. At least the cable calls it an
“ audience.” What we would call it is that the
Pope has scooped in the Ballarat nugget.
Mr. J. W. Williamson, of Parramatta
Gaol, we read, has perpetrated a Jubilee ode. We
have seen the ode, and a second-hand idiot could
tell that it is the outcome of twelve months’ hard
labour.
Mr. John Harris, who fills the Sydney
Mayoral chair for 1888, emigrated from London-
derry, Ireland, at the early age of four years.
Beach wasn't near so old when he left home, and
he is now several lengths ahead on the scroll of
fame.
Neil Matteraon, the sculler, now keeps a
pub. in Sydney, and has gone into the business cf
being interviewed, and saying how he means to
win the championship some day. He is just now
sculling very extensively in the columns of the
evening newspapers.
Robert Heaps (aged 10), of Mount Gam-
bler (S.A.), has been committed for trial on a
charge of criminally assaulting a girl of 11. This
is getting things down pretty flne, whichever way
it is looked at, and either there is a very rowdy
boy of 10 in the case, cr a remarkably hard-
swearing girl of 11. N.B.—lnfants hanged at re-
duced rates.
For tricks that are vain, the heathen
Chinee is peculiar. Very peculiar. An opium-
sodden ed chunk of leprous humanity, named Ah
On, tried to end a contagious existence in Sand-
hurst lock-up by cutting his throat with a pieoe
of zinc. Zinc of that 1 If he hadn’t been dis-
covered in time, he would have zunk into a pre-
mature grave.
The Marquis of Normanby did Caulfield
Races on Boxing Day, looking a little older and a
little more farmer-like than of yore. They do say
that the old gentleman has come out to marry his
“second,” but we believe things haven’t got so
far as that. Normanby comes as an ardent wooer
to learn his noble fate from the lady’s own lips.
“ A-aid him, O 1 Cu-upid, Go-odd of Lo-o-ve! ”
This latter remark should be set to music.
District Court Judge Paul, of Queensland,
has one of those faces you notice in a crowd. It
generally presents a pleasing expression—bat not
always. Once a jury brought in a verdictof “not
guilty,” in the teeth of the c’earest evidence to
the contrary. “ Prisoner, the Jury have acquitted
you of the oharge, and so you may go—but take
care you don’t do it again." This is what he
said, but be looked six months with bard labour.
“Archibald Borbes, the famous war cor-
respondent," fays an American paper, “after he
made his first visit to this country, was a splendid
specimen of healthy manhood. He arrived at
New York from England, the otter day, a mere
wreck of his former self. He left at once for
Washington, the home of his wife’s family, and
there he hopes to get well. But he is so feeble at
present that he c*n scarcely move about his
room.’
Another fable about the Mart is of Ailes-
bury. When be was Lord Savernake, he was
carousing with some of his choice gentlemen com-
rades in some lavourite haunt, when a friend
came in, and, calling him aside, whispered to him
quietly that the old Marquis was dead, and en-
deavoured to lead him outside. Bat, shaking
him off, the flushed young “nobleman” turned
to the gaudy company, and slid, “ Look here, old
fellows, did you hear that? I’m a blanked Mar-
quis !”
Mr. John AudersoD, nominal traffic-
manager of the Victorian Railways, died last
week. Mr. Anderson was a pleasant old bachelor
who secured bis billet in easy-going times, and
never departed from a steady Government stroke.
The Windsor accident enquiry made it quite evi-
dent that this amiable and popular Tite Barnacle
understood little about the traffic which, accord-
ing to polite fiction, he controlled. He died in
the full enjoyment of £l4OO a year. In every but
an official sense Mr. Anderson’s death is a loss
to the Victorian community.
Judge Docker, of N.S.W., says that the
billet of a life-insurance agent is “ one of the
lowest positions, under ordinary circumstances, to
which a man can descend.” Docker has made so
many extraordinary statements of late and done
so many extraordinary things that people have
ceased to take much notice of him, but it looks as
if the time were near when he would have to be
medically examined with a view to having him
stopped short. Even if it should be merely liver
or biliousness he might, in justice to the pri-
soners who oome before him, be adjourned for
repairs, and when he is cleaned and scraped he
would probably go on with greater satisfaction
both to hioQßelf and the suffering country which
he sends to gaol.
Thus a London correspondent:
I had a conversation the other day with a near relative of
Algernon Swinburne, and was told some interesting things
in regard to the famous poet. His childhood and boyhood,
up to the age of eighteen were extremely straight-laced. He
was brought up by his mother in the most absurd fashion,
and kept under such restraint and oontrol that at eighteen
he was accustomed to ask her permission to havq a second
piece of toast at breakfast. He was coddled and wetehed,
and protected by the maternal petticoats and apron-string
as if he were a tender girl, until almost a man. Doubtless
the dormant Bpirit of genius within him rebelled against
such Miss Nancyißh nonsense and made him, directly he
went to Oxford and got clear of his mother's eye and frown,
go to the other extreme. His family are people of the most
rigid, old-fashioned, and conservative ways. They are
eminently proper in every thing, and at one time, when the
poet had not achieved the renown he enjoys to-day, affected
to be shocked at his behaviour in writing such naughty
poetry, and disgracing the Swinburne name. Now, however,
while not exactly and avowedly countenancing him and his
rather lax style of life and writings, they are glad enough,
though they haven't the hODesiy to say so, to have so great a
man in the world of letters for kinsmaD.
The portly, well-conditioned form of Sir
George Frederick Verdoh, K.C.M.G., C. 8., &0.,
See., Sec., ia again giving the girls a treat on the
Sydney Block. Many, many years ago the gentle-
man who ia now Sir George Yerdon was a slim
youth, doing duty amidst dust and discomfort, on
the Australian Wharf, Melbourne, as discharging
clerk for Heap and Co , now Grice, Sumner, and
Co. The slim youth, however, gave up checking
ships’ cargoes, and went to the University to
study law. Was successful, and was admitted to
tbe Bar, but never practised ; went in for politics,
became member for Williamstown, captain of the
local volunteer corps, and subsequently Treasurer
in several Ministries. He went on a mission to
England, and obtained the free gift of a used-up
man-of-war for tbe colony and a C.8.-ship for him-
self. Subsequently, he accepted the Agent-
Generalship of Victoria, at a salary of £2OOO, but
resigned the post, assigning as a reason that it
cost him £5OO more than his salary to beep up the
position. In any case, however, he preferred
money-changing to politics, and became the Aus-
tralasian superintendent of the E. S. and A. C.
Bank.
Some years ago, the chief priest at St.
Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney, was a genial Cork man,
Father Tim M'Carthy, the same who induced
Vane, the bushranger, to forsake his evil ways and
give himself up to justice. Few know why
Father Tim lefo St, Mary’s and t-cok that trip
home which ended in his death in bis native city.
On the death of the venerated Archbißhop Pold-
ing, his successor, Dr. Vaughan, decided that a
pulpit oration should be delivered reviewing the
life and labours of the good man who had just
gone. Father Tim, as an old associate and bosom
friend of the deceased, was chosen to deliver the
oration conditionally on his submitting the MS.
to his Grace, whioh Father Tim did. The event-
ful Sunday evening arrived, but Father Tim, who
was fairly fond of the good things of this life, had
secreted a couple of tumblers of good whisky
punch under his waistcoat, and, on ascending the
pulpit, delivered an oration from his heart, not
from the MS., conveniently forgetting the para-
graphs laudatory of Dr. Polding’s successor. Dr.
Vaughan thereupon decided that Father Tim
needed change of air, and St. Mary’s knew the
genial Cork man no more.
Mr. Patrick Kenna, who has just been
appointed Vice-Consul at Sydney for the U.S ,
has, young as he is, a history of his own. He is
a native of Bathurst, N.S.W., and his father, an
adherent of the R.C. Church, sent him for his
final polish to Sydney Grammar School. To this
course Mathew Quinn, by the Grace of God, R C.
Bishop of Bathurst, objected, and commanded
the removal of the lad, and threatened that if
compliance were not yielded all the pains and
penalties of the church, here and hereafter, would
be enforced. Old Dick was stubborn, refused
compliance, and continued to do so till on his
PARKES (hauling old friend out of the mud-hole of obscurity): COME UP, DAVIES, OLD
MAN, WE VE SOME MORE WORK FOR YOU TO DO."
deathbed, when fresh negotiations were made by
Mother Church for a settlement of the difficulty.
Kenna was still stubborn, and declared himself
prepared to meet the ; King of Terrors, or any other
king, rather than yield. Mathew Quinn was also
stubborn, the result being that Kenna died with-
out “ the rites ” of the Cfiurch, and his body was
denied six feet by two in the local consecrated
ground. The family, a wealthy one, was equal to
the occasion, and a vault was built on a half-acre
allotment overlooking the city of the plains where,
beneath a splendid marble monument, rests in
peace the victim of sectarian feuds and ani-
mosities.
A local paper thus describes a Collin gwood
(Vic.) vagrant:—
He had tint look about him which characterises a certain
class of “ spielers ’’ —wan face, cowering eyes, receding fore-
head, pug-m se, long coat and choker, big feet, c ily hands,
dirty Dails, foetid breath and globular black hat—with aDy
quantity of “ blarney.
One would thiok this was a portrait of a Sydney
alderman.
At Parramatta, about two months ago, the
Orange clan rolled up in a m'ghty conclave to
celebrate the worn-out gag about “ the merciful
preservation of the King and Parliament of Eng-
land from the gunpowder treason and plot.” We
have now a soheme on hand for commemorating
the o ocasion when Charles the First lost his head
of ble ssed memory, and when we have raised a
little money we will have a lark that will make
old King C. swear in his mausoleum.
POLITI CAL
POINTS
John Davies, M.L.C.—May Learning
Come.
“The noisome political cove of the wild-
cat party presided over by Mr. Dibbs.” "Verbal
exotic from the Sydney D.T.
Mr. Archibald Forbes, after his visit to
Australia, said: “ The one inevitable result of
the first great war in which Britain becomes en-
gaged is that she will lose her Australian colonies,
which will seek security in separation,”
The late N.Z. Minister of Mines once told
an irrepressible member to “ repair to another
place.” Sheol, we believe, was what he meant,
but somehow an impression got abroad that it
was the Legislative Corns oil he was driving at.
M‘Elhone says that if Haynes talks dis-
respectful like about the churches in
the House he’ll deal with him when he gets him
outside. It’ll fare particularly badly with Mud J.
it he talks disparagingly of Dane O'Brlne and St.
Benedict’s where Mac. rents a pew and worships
weekly.
More gore and glory ! The New Zealand
defence expenditure from 1878 to 1887 amounted
to £174,018, quite irrespective of a little out3tar d-
ing balance of £50,631 ; and Tryon, according to
popular report, said he could bust all the defences
which the colony got for the money in a couple of
hours at the outside.
Now that Trickelt, M.L.A., has gone to
the Upper Dead House, there is room for a man at
Paddington who does not believe in the theory
that Providence made Australians because the
manufacturers of England were short of cus-
tomers, and because the Chow was on the look-
out for some one to buy his cabbage.
“ The hon. member goes round the country
with a publican and a prima donna,” was the
accusation once brought against a prominent
member of the N.Z. House of Representatives.
Then the offender rose with a penny flower in his
coat, and replied in soft accents, “I plead guilty
to the prima donna, but not to the publican.”
A New Zealand M.L.A. wants a com-
mittee of newspaper men appointed whose duty
it shall be to translate the laws “ out of the vile
jargon of the lawyers into the purity of the
Queen’s Eoglish." Which Queen’s English ? The
pure outpouring of the pick-and-shovel man or
the Johnsonian drivel of the electioneering editor?
Some queer scenes were enacted in our
early colonial days. The Sydney Gazette, of
March 5, 1803, records a memorable attempted
execution: “Joseph Samuels, for burglary was
three times suspended ; first, the rope separated;
second, it unrove at the fastening; third, it
snapped short! The case was represented to the
Governor who was pleased to reprieve him.”
Mr. William Teece, M.L A, for Goulburn
(N.S.W.). was last week arrested while wander-
ing about under the impression that he had been
sentenced to death. He was committed to the
reception-house, but will in a week or so return
to his legislative duties. Mr. Teece is a man of a
certain amount of ability, but it is high time he
resigned a position for which circumstances utterly
disqualify him.
When the British army declares for demo-
cracy, the last prop which shored up a decaying
Toryism will be gone for ever, and the British
army is fast coming to this point. At Tullamore
(Ireland) recently, the soldiers broke out of the
barracks to make the old town echo with cheers
for William O’Brien, while the officers howled,
raged, cursed, and commanded in vain. It was
the first sign of the coming British mutiny.
“ It is all very well to get a pair of trousers
tor 11s., but where is the almighty 11s. to come
from?” asked Day, M.L. A., at the Protectionist
meeting last week at Paddington, Sydney. Well,
according to the Freetraders when a cheap-labour
ship brings the pants from a fot eign country the
Australian is to make enough to buy them by
humpiDg the bales on the whaif, alwajs provided
a Kanaka or a Chow can’t he got to do it cheaper!
Some two months ago, Premier Giliies in-
vited some Victorian Ms.P. and a few other
persons to take a “ friendly glass of wine ” with
him on the occasion of the christening of a room
in Parliament House. Of course they guzzled. A
few weeks back the guzz’ers found that Duncan,
the canny Scot, had tacked £127 on to the Esti-
mate, ye ken, In payment of the booze which
they fondly imagined he had provided at his own
expense.
One or two fresh land-slips are reported
in the neighbourhood of Mudgee (N.S. W.), and
the time is evidently approaching when Haynes
electorate will slip away altogether. Then the
Mudgee geophagist will stand “like an orphan
bandicoot on a burnt ridge,” and dig with a long-
handled shovel in the hope of finding some lone
survivor of the mentally boss-eyed race of
heathens who, in a weak moment, sent him to
Parliament.
Protection to local industries asd a land
tax promise to be the two principal cries of the
n ppopition at the coming Queensland election.
Griffith speaks hopefully of the effect he will pro |
duce on the constituencies by tome political gyra-
tion which he proposes to execute in the Federal
Council, and MTiwraith promises, for bis part, to
rescue the country from bankruptcy and Imperial
flunkeyism. As far as can be seen at present, the
country is with Sir Thomas, and Sawmill of
Wales is sliding on the downward road which
leads to obscurity.
It’s said that there’s a one-sided vendeti a
between the Byrons and Castlereagbs, Lod
Lieutenant Londonderry has cast Lffiy Anne
Blunt, granddaughter of Childe Harold Byrcn,
into gacl, under the Tory Coercion Act, and
people say causa the original Byron called
Saic’de Castlereagh a varmint, which somehow or
other escaped the anathema and boot-toe of St,
Patrick. Castlereagh was the first Unionist, and
Byrcn was a Home Ruler. One of the few
speeches which George Gordon made in the Lords
was in favour of Parnellism a generation before
Parnell was born.
There’s something wrong in the N.Z.
Legislative Council —theHupper 'Ouse, as Johnny
Martin affectionately calls it. One of the Maori
M.tL.C., haviDg gorged too much rotten shark,
gave his vote in the wrong direction, and, when
he woke to the fact, there was a lively time.
Somebody then moved, or something moved him
to move, for most of the old fossils are too shaky
to move further than Bellamy’s refreshment-room,
that, for the, future, when a vote is taken, all
members Bhould rise in their seats. This motion,
however, was negatived immediately, as most of
the members are already so far gone that they re-
quire to be shored up when the House adjourns,
and removed in wheelbarrows. To ask that these
battered derelicts should rise and vote was a
bitter mockery.
The Hon. Mr. Scotland, of the N.Z.
Legislative Council, is a gentleman who has seen a
lot of vociferous politics, and having tried to do
nothing for a number of years and miserably
failed, he was finally relegated to the Parlia-
mentary lumber room. As a rule he keeps pretty
quiet in that elevated station, but the other day
this oasis in a great mental desert, was taken bad
with an idea on the subject of railway manage-
ment, and opened his mouth and spake. The
popular clamour for reform he described as “ tha
blathericgs of an ignorant populace, supported by
a lot of miserable penny-a-liner rags of papers,
editors of which whan they have nothing else to
do, take a pull at the whiskey bottle and write an
article on legislative reform, or railway mis'
management,” and having delivered himself of
this noble sentiment he sat down amid applause.
Mr. Scotland, of course, believes that while he
survives and draws his screw pretty reg'lar the
Legislature doesn’t want reform, and the ignorant
populace, whose boots he isn’t qualified to clean,
have no right to ‘ blather” while he is there to
blather for them. Cot pleas ta Tuke o’ Argyle.
Parke a’ Centennial Morgue, cold-meat es-
tablishment, lunatic asylum, temporary resting-
place for dead-beats from England, and hospital
for thanking victorious troops, has gone to sleep,
along with many other fads which have emanated,
at different times, from the seething brain of the
Kiama Ghost. Further consideration of the pro-
ject has been deferred till February, and when
February comes the Centenary will be a faded,
antique drunk, and everybody will be dyspeptic,
bad-tempered, dead-broke, and afflicted with re-
morse and snuffles, and nobody will care one soli-
tary individual dump for a celebration which has
got so woefully into arrear. The eminent bread-
waggon officers of N.S.W. will have to be
thanked, as before, in any spot where they can
find shelter from the wet, and when the great
scientists and statesmen of the colony pass away,
they will be rushed round, as usual, to the ceme-
tery, instead of a gilded Government official call-
ing for them in a gilded State House waggon, and
saying to the weeping widow, “Here, mum,
hurry up, and pass out that ’ere corpse.” Of
course, this doesn’t matter much to the corpse,
but it is an awful collapse for the victorious
troops. The soldiers of Australia would have
rushed cheerfully to battle when they knew
that there was a place all ready to thank
them in, but what is the good of bounding on a
square of Russian bayonets merely for the sake < f
catching rheumatism afterwards while being con-
gratulated in a windy shed ? There is no induce-
ment in such a prospect—-at least none that we
can see. Moreover, there is always an unfinished
look about things when the thanking is done in
the street or in a slnshy park ; in nine casss out
of ten there are no thanking tools, ready for one
thing, and the iob has to be done by hand, which
is always unsatisfactory. We have been thanked
ourselves in a public-house, and down a mine, and
in a dog-show, and on the lee-side o£ a dripping
hedge, and in a boot-factory, and on a pcst-card,
and we, therefore, speak from experience. In
future we prefer being thanked by cheque or by a
promissory-note with two negotiable names on the
back.
A religious paper in Brisbane says ‘ ‘ we
want a live paper that will not pollute Its columns
with the nauseating details of a horse-race, while
cutting down religious pars to six lines.” The
last such paper in Brisbane expired despite an
heroic attempt to stir up a sensation by minute
details of the working of the C.D, Act,


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, JANUARY 7, 1888.
"C J7i
9 : 3s v #* £lp
‘T > *>■ C«/% ~
4“* / *> %%.%* a ‘**<?£“'
4 Z.
fj’/f rfc*r~>
y ■fa % r
r *
t
V- Xe -.^ 7 v?s^ S


>yim
f y i d i
V/r
- - f
ea £'i»*)
KtJ ruipy* '
6 j hioy eiS '
Steff '
Jas/j?es3 ,
. t.
* H oU ; V
~*» f tfvfl by a V
Jt f.Ufri
5 v ?v^ w V
» tl V 1 > * sr^
n y. \ot
y /£z>/ro# ofTA/jr —
f S ftoope fieri,
/Z ffri* for G>/6y
Holiday Madness.


You are respectfully invited to visit the four showrooms
ot BRAY Bros., 402 and 404 George-street, and prove to your
own satisfaction that they have the largest and choicest
absorbent of Dinner, Tea, Dessert and Toilet bets, and
china and Glass all suitable for this easons presents and
every requirements,
FRECKLES, tan, sunburn,
and all species of Eplielis and Lentigo are spots and patches
Of ferrous colouring matter deposited beneath the epidermis
or external skin. Many useless remedies are sold, but
Clements’ Frecjklebane iß,so far the ocly effectual cure
Ei>sy to apply and non-injurious. A proper use is sure to
cure. Sold by all chemists. City agents, Washington H.
Soul and Co. Post, free from F. M. Clements Chemist,
Newtown, N.S.W., for 2s. lOd. in stamps.*
n'vprvbodr says-and whit eyervbody sayß must be turn
that Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is the
best ia the market.*
Everybody should use Pemell's latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest suoceES of the
age.*
Society
A citizsn, in trousers and a fcell-toppsr,
signing himself J. B. Watts, suggests, through
the medium of the S. M. Herald, that the
Government should erect “guide posts ’’ over the
whole glorious colony of N.S.W. to direct) the
wayfarer either to the nearest public-house or the
nearest waterhole where the pensive deceased
dog fritters away the golden moments in the sun-
light, Failing guide-posts as a too expensive
scheme for a Government so economical as the
present, J. 13. Watts says that strips of zinc might
be tvWned roiled the hoar Jr gum with “This way
to Jamberoo,” cr “Turn to the right for Humpy-
bong ” painted upon them If these reforms are
effected good-bye to all hope of native poetry!
How the dettce coiild a Kendall sing of tbb lonely
bttsh and the lost than With his ladylike expres-
sions aßout his distant home, if the whole popu-
lation knew for a dead fact that it hasn’t possible
fßr a man to get lost in Australia, and that evßry
gum-tree liad a tin band round its stomach showing
tlie traveller the short-cut to the water or the wine!
How could the belated bushman lie down beneath
the wattle any more, and use cuss expressions be-
cause he never expected to see his aged mother
again ? What about the lonely horseman on a
lonely moke in the midst of the arid wilds, or the
well-brought-up boy from home who goes astray
in the bush, and is oomforted in his last hours by
the Bible which was conferred upon him by a
Suo day-school pirate in childhood’s happy hours,
or the parched digger ker-lutching his gold as he
perishes among the sun-scorched rocks? What is
to become of them all ? If there is any noble
sentiment left in the community let this infamous
proposal about guide-posts be received with the
scorn which it deserves,
» » *
from the pious S. M. Herald once
more :
"WANTED, those in touch with Heaven to supplicate
’ moral, political, and phys'cal mercies for our
country.
We sit out in the pale moonlight with the plain-
tive bull-ant making tracks for our log, and ask
pathetically what in the whole Empire is meant
by this i Is it a new hair-wash “ ad.” or what ?
An American paper thus etherealises a
star of the ballet popularly knoWn as Sara the
Kicker. Sara, it would appear, is of an uncer-
tain age, but She looks 23, and kicks five years
younger 5
It was a rush and a flash, and a vision of hla3k legs and
black gauze and diamonds. SJje bounds in like a firefly, and
whirls around the stage like autumn leaves in a cyclone Her
feet shoot around in Circles- her arms and head and body
spin in wild delirium You would think-uf you had tme to
think—that she was going to kick herself into fragments and
spatter the stage with her remainß. Presently her little
slippered foot ascends with lightning-like velocity and strikes
ft point a long way above her flying hair, then whirls around
and gyrates about h('r shoulder and comes down agaw, then
Up and around as before. She is apparently made of rubber
and wlialebODe ; her kicking is as the revolutions of a fly-
wheel, or a buzz-saw with a full head of steam on; she
throws her foot around her neck and kicks herself in the
hack of the head—she is weird, fantastic, diabolical. She is
an aCrobatic imp of darkness. Sara is a terpsichorean
cyclone.
Sira kicks in black, it seems) out of respBct for
her husband deceased. She has to kick for a
living, but she wants the old man, if he should
chance to look down upon her, to feel that ho
isn’t forgotten amid the pressure of earthly busi-
ness. ,
* * *
la a Yictorian town, on the main line from
Melbourne to Ectauca, lived a boozy medico whose
greatest trouble was the scarcity of brandy, and
whose most splendiferous picnic was a quiet
Corner and a mislaid bottle of “ stuff.” He was
the surgical ornament to a Volunteer Corps, but
In default of gun-shot wounds or sabre cuts, his
Scientific knowledge was utilised by his comrades
as taster in ordinary to ihe pomp and circumstance
of glorious holiday war when the battalion let
itself loose on the rampage. The doctor lived
nexb df’or to a teetotaller, who generally kept
soaoethieg in the house in case of an accident
One night a most infernal row was heard in the
teetotal back-yard, and the gallant Sangrado, in
his dual capacity of a father and a soldier, sallied
forth breathing curses not loud but deep, clad
only in his night-shirt, with his glittering sword
between his martial teetn. He scaled the fence
and aroused his neighbour. It was the witching
hour of midnight, and together they searched the
yard for the cause of the trouble. They found a
drunken tramp, and ignominiously ejected him.
The doctor turned to “git,” but suddenly remem-
bering that cherished bottle—in case of accidents
—and remembering also that his own looker
was empty, he asked for just one Dip. The
teetotaller produced the amber-tinted brain-
stealer. The medico drank long and deep, and
then requested the bottle, for which he would
return another in the morning. He departed
happy. He made his exit by the street gate and
entered his own garden. He feared to awaken
his better-half by the clinking of glasses. The
moon was brightly sailing overhead, and, although
the night was cold, had he not the surest of corpse-
revivers in his personal possession ? He sat down
on a garden-seat in his shirt and finished the
bottle. At the breaking of the dawn he essayed
to get into his house and return to the bosom of
his family. He stumbled over the scraper ! . . .
When the milkman visited that mansion in the
full glory of the newly-risen sun he found an
almost nude figure stretched out upon the veran-
dah with one hand grasping the hilt of his glitter-
ing sabre and the other frantioally clutchir g the
broken neck of a dead marine. The doctor was
assisted inside in sections which were promptly
bruised by his stalwart bBttsr-balf with a broom-
stick, pickled and put in soak for a fortnight.
Sangrado loves the bottle as of yore, but he never
discusses the merits of Hennessy’s Elixir unless
his manly form be safely encased in a suit of
double barrelled tweed. #
The N.S.W. Art Society are not going to
have it all their own way. The indefatigable P.
Fletcher-Watson, who, as an advertiser, boats
the Art Society’s “ bos3 ” hollow, has just crept
up behind and taken the wind completely out of
the rival show’s sail by obtaining the patronising
smile of Governor Carington, which the others
were notoriously unable to do. While the N.S.W.
artists had to be content with such Insignificant
fry as Inglis and Clarke, and some editors of
mediocre dailies, Mr. P. Fletcher-Watson
manages to secure the presence at the opening
ceremony, of Lord and Lady Carington, the Coun-
tess of Carnarvon, the Look of Manchester, the
Earl of Buckingham, and the Bisbop of Sydney,
while he has amongst his patrons the Earl of
Aberdeen, the Earl of Roseberry, the Bight Hon.
W. B. Dailey* P.C.* and the Hon. B. K. Wise.
IN PARKES’ DEAD HOUSE.
SOULPTOR PARKES (log,): "THESE ARE MY FRIENDS."
LADY CARLNGTON: "HOW NICELY YOD'VE CHISELLED THEM."
PARKES: “Y-E-S. I DON’T MEAN WHAT YOU MEAN, YERKNOW.”
The Sydney D.T., in an obviously inspired article,
geeks bo discount all this sorb of thing, yet in a
leader of a week or two ago it advised the artists
bo secure the patronage of the wealthy by hook
or by crook if they expected ever to do any good
for themselves. Now P. Fletcher-Watson has
succeeded where the N.SW. Art Society miserably
failed ; evidently he has a head for biz worth the
whole boiling. Mind we do not say that Car mg ton s
presence anywhere proves that the affair is worth
anything. He always yawns twenty times to the
square minute at anything that demands the
exercise of that which he has precious little of,
and he shows the whole tim9 that he would
sooner be at a horse-raea or a boat struggle. For
our own part, we must say that we wouldn’t give,
a crimson-steeped butcher's malison for the art
that endeavours to thrive on parasitism and self-
abasement, and while grovel to wealth is recog-
nised as the raison d'etre of art in Australia, a
national art will be absolutely impossible.
* * *
A few more Press amenities come from
Victoria. One energetic editorial person writes :
A cross between a white man and a Chinaman, with a
dash of gaolbird thrown in, came to the cfhce on Wednes-
day last and wanted the editor to apologise ;for calling him
a low Fcoundrel ” in our last issue. In order to prevent
bloodshed the editor promised to apologise, and he is now
fulfilling his pledge. He hastens to inform the public that
the Yahoo in question is not a low scoundrel. Afier full in-
quiries the editor finds that he is a superlative, God-for-
saken skunk, who would rob his blind grandmother if he got
the chance.
As this is the apology a good many people would
be glad to know what the original insult was like.
* * *
If Eve had been constructed so that she
couldn t stand up, her descendants of to-day would
not have needed to trouble about her mode of
dressing. When a lady is sitting, it is difficult to
tell what she has got on. This original eagacity
was occasioned by a prolonged study of seated
femininity at the Summer meeting of the A.J.C.
at Randwick. It was too moist on Tuesday
morning for the darlings to put on their prettiest,
and when the weather lifted after luncheon few
were plucky enough to parade the lawn, for they
“ positively hadn’t anything to wear.” We use
this term in its ordinary conversational sense only.
Consequently, a very large number remained
planted hard down, and those who did promenade
wore a disheartened aspect. There were a few
nice toilets, however, here and there, and a 1 so
some outrageous clothes that were an insult to
the human understanding. One dress of rose-
pink veiling, trimmed with pink-paper-satin fix-
ings, was a howl of artistic despair in twelve
yards. A ‘ 1 get-up ’’ of maroon velvet, yellow bonnet
and red parasol, was loud enough to waken the
dead ; and one much-attired angel faced a bleak
wind from Botany in a cream gauze dress with a
cascade of flaming yellow bows down the front 1
We left when we encountered th's siren. It
undermined our constitution only to look at her,
and we could feel our massive intellect tottering
on its throne.
* * *
Flora Howard St. Clair aEd Walter
Gibson had a sweet time of it while their young
love lasted, but when that era passed matters
grew very sultry, especially for the man. He was,
when his wooing first began, the Premier of Hono-
lulu, and divide time spooning with the girl
and meetmg votes of censure proposed by a soul-
less Opposition. His age, when his love over
powered him, was something over three score and
ten ; just the time when the average statesman
yearns for some Stella, who will cuddle him on
“ mountain heights, ten thousand feet above the
sea, love.” She was—well she owned up to being
29, ’ and sbe still mourned for a dear who had
departed some months before she met Premier
Gibson. Her occupation was that of the common
or garden book-hawker, and it was in the pursuit
of her lawful calling that she first enoountered
Walter Murray. He was so shook by the
widow’s first onslaught that he refused to
take any books then, well-knowing, leery
old bird that he appears to be, that sne
wonld hump her books around again on an
ensuing date. Which she did several times, and
he bought books considerably, paying for them in
a lavishf aehion peculiar even to Australian Pre oners
who have very good friends ready to endorse very
bad bills. For a Longfellow, price 39 dollars, he
gave her a 50 dollar cheque, refusing to accept
change, and for a 60 dollar Shakespeare he
donated a 100 dollar cheque, which, unlike the
cheque of some septuagenarian Premiers, were
duly paid on presentation. Then their love be*
came torrid; he said he “ counted every moment
until the time when he should again see her;
she being a widow, and experienced in these
affairs, thought, as she subsequently asserted,
that this “ was getting a little bit strong. Then
he wanted to call and see her three times a week,
and she gave him Tuesday, Thursday, and Satur-
day evenings, from Bto 11. He said he wanted
• 1 to enjoy her sweet companionship and loving con-
fidence.” His “darling,” his “dear love, and a
sweet, sweet darling” was what he called her at
this time, and when she said she liked roses, he
started a nigger away to plant two acres of them.
They were very chummy then ; he used to bathe his
forehead with her eau de-cologne, and he k ssed
her through the night” up to 11 p.m. regularly.
Then they were engaged, and thereupon the row
began, for a vulgar local newspaper, in a scoffing,
anonymous kind of way, alluded to the match,
and Walter Murray’s daughter got to hear what
was going on, and then suddenly Flora saw him
no more. She asked him to meet her at her home,
but he would not, so she changed the venue to the
local Supreme Court, but still he wouldn t come
He fled from the scene, and a compassionate jury,
who were free from the Wellerite prejudice, said
that the devastation of Flora’s affection was werth
10 000 dollars at current rates. Which little idyll
carries a moral lesson to impressionable and
mature Premiers.
* * *
“ The Negus of Abyssinia remains hostile
to the Italians.”- Daily Paper.
The Negus hostile I ’Tis our firm opinion
That oall it Eoglish, French, or Abyssinian,
One can’t be friendly with such bilious toddy;
Why, negus disagrees with every body !
* * *
At a stallion show at Gundigai (N.S.W.),
the other day, one Misther Lynch entered an
animal which he called The Cardinal, in
honour of the eminent Dr. Moran What the
holy fathers of the Church think of this we don t
know, but many years ego an Irishman of Wex-
ford christened his prize bull P.u3 IX., and had
cause to be sorry for it. The parish prießt
solemnly denounced him from the sltar for his
impiety. He cussed him and his house, and
everything and everybody in the house ; he cussed
his stable, wash-house, and outbuildings; he
cussed the bull, and everybody who went near
the bull, and all the bull’s relatives end
progenitors, and prayed that its horn might grow
into its eye, and that its tail might decay, and
that it might get lost and be found by a “ dirthy
Prodestant” : he cus'ed the inside of the animal
and the outside, and the upper side and the under
side, and ever; thing else he could think of. The
owner sued him for damages on account of all
this malediction, and when, after a long trial, he
won, and presented the priest with a tremendous
bill of costs, the holy man filed his shovel and
didn’t pay a cent. The plaintiff was pretty nearly
sold up for law expenses In the end, and the bull
was mortgaged so deeply that it never recovered
the shock.
* * *
The ex-May or of Collingwcod (Melb.) has
been honoured by bis fellows In a general way
the used-up Mayors of that district retire on an
illuminated address, but it was decided to present
the Mokaxma of Jv bilee Year with a gold locket,
as he is about to proceed on a European tour.
An idea prevails among the beau mor,de of Col-
lingweod that a gigantic locket, g i terlng on a
broad expanse of waistcoat, will awaken Euro-
pean potentates to a sense of the growing im-
portance of these colonies.
A really wonderful
event happened the other
n’gbt in Wildam-street,
Sydney. Such an event
that one might live a
hundred years and never
again witness the like.
A man 3at in a 'bus en-
cumbered with books and
papers. A fashionably-
dressed woman with all
the outward refinement
that characterises the
lady sat opposite. The
’bus stops. They both
alight. They are stran-
gers. The woman, seeing
that the man is embar-
rassed with his load,
politely holds open the
door and assists him to
gather up his impedi-
menta. This is a fact!
"We know there is an air
of wild improbability
about it, but it’s abso-
lutely true, nevertheless.
* * *
In a Brisbane draw-
ing-room. New chum :
“ Yes, the verses are
very clever. Of course
you know they are by
Brunton Stephens?”
Local belle : “ Really I
who is he?" Verily, no
man is a prophet in his
Q wn country.
* * *
A woman who threw
a bucket of water over
two lovers was fined £5
by a Sandhurst (Vic.)
magistrate a while back
for contempt of court,
we presume.
* * *
Woolcock (Private
Secretary to Caliph Grif-
fith) has been appointed
to revise the Queens-
land statutes. He was
called to the Bar at the
last sittings of the Su-
preme Court in Brisbane,
and never was there seen
before in the Court such
an array of brilliant damsels as on tbat occasion.
The Private Sec is invaluable at picnics, tennls-
partiej, and “ kettle drums,” and so—he has been
ippointed to revise the Queensland statutes.
Vive la Bagatelle ! But how much will the
trifling cost the colony?
* * *
The London Bat says :
To Lady Brasaey the peer owes such social distinction as
he may have achieved. She was amiable, genial, and am
bitious, and it seems a sad fat® that ended so abruptly the
enjoyment of the coronet for which she had worked so
assiduously. Amongst the public her ladyship was known
as the authoress rf the “Voyage of the Sunbeam, a work of
little originality, interest, or literary merit, and which was
not published with a view to profit. As a hostess, she shone,
and her cook was always excellent. Her death, lam in-
formed, was almost tragic. Maddened by the fever, she
jumped overboard the yacht, and her husband, who followed
her, was with difficulty rescued from sharing the fate of his
loyal and affectionate wife.
* * *
The other day, Lumley Hill, M.L.A., of
Queensland, the wealthy, loud, and festive
bachelor, gave a party of Brisbane “sassiety”
people a picnic down the Bay, and the toilets of
the girls were dreams of delicious diaphanosity.
But the sea turned crusty and rough, and all the
darlings were ill, and a horrible suspicion arose
when they observed the meagreness of the lunch
that they had been taken out into open water to
make them bear light on the victuals. Hence
Lumley walketh abroad with a gentle reserve
about him.
* * *
An enterprising parson at Sandgate, Q.,
the Brisbane watering place, where there is keen
competition for the visitors’ souls (and alms), puts
up a huge calico sign on the roof of his church,
with “Open on Christmas and Boxing Bay”
on it. There’s an opening for a young man like
that anywhere.
* * *
Sydney press fellows do some idiotic
things. Here's one of them. At a big or little
spread when “ The Press ” is proposed and drunk
(the press “ drunk ”) every mother's son connected
with the newspapers who may be present rises, if
he gets the chanca, and responds, and tells to
what paper he belongs. In Melbourne one fellow
responds for the lot, and goodness knows that
onght to be enough.
* * *
Judge Paul has kindly given Brisbane
society something to talk about in the dull season.
He paid a holiday visit to Japan some months
ago, and returned from his tour as intensely
Japanese as the sublimated Oscar Wilde himself.
He has not, it is true, presided in Court in a cos-
tume borro wed from “ The Mikado,” bub he has
done somethicg which “socie'y considers equally
outr6 —that is, if Brisbane society knows what
BY A CHRISTMAS POET HUNG OUT TO
DRY.
When it's damp on Xmas Day
(joes mankind to choich to pray,
When it’s raining like blue blades all the
while ?
Does the deacon, meek and thin,
Find a boom the salver in,
As he waltzes to a hjrnn ?
We should smile !
No indeedy! Men go out
To the nearest pub. and shout,
Not “hallelujah,” but aB and S. ;
And their little “bobs” and “ tanners,”
! 8toad of paying for hosannahs,
Help them to (hid) forgetsh their mannersh,
Mere or less.


Wlj£n nost »ou bake try Pe
Flouk, and your bread will l
aejl’s tow-WHiw Roll;®,
) as white as Bndw.*
outre means. He has built a Japanese house, be-
ginning with a forty-ton roof of grotesque tiles
and ending with an oil-paper basement. The
rooms are divided from each other by paper par-
titions, on which the Tgh Hart of Japan has been
lavishly expended. This papier- mAohe mansion
may be a very nice thing from the point of view
of the cultivated Court of the Empress Josephine,
but our landlady’s youngest, plus a few luclfers
and a playfnl humour, would produoe results with
it which we shudder to think of. The Judge, also,
will shudder when the west winds of the Brisbane
winter whistle about its spider-frame and tissue-
paper walls. It is said, now, he cuts his friends
if they happen to speak of a white elephant in his
presence.
* * *
A mild-eyed Mohammedan slouched into
the witness-box of a Melbourne court, and said
he swore on the Koran in English fashion. Then
he fished out a Koran from the near neighbour-
hood of his sock, and the clerk put him through
—“ The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but
the truth, s’help your Allah 1"
• * •
The Australian fat girl can now take a
hack seat. A Japanese giantess has arisen who
is eight feet high, 12 years and five months old, and
weighs 2701 b. Her bands are nine inches long
and her feet over 15. Sort of girl who ought to
be shod by contract.
* * *
A well-known Sydney chemist— let us cal
him Thompson—was endeavouring to get to sleep
the other night. He thought he heard somebody
trying the window. Then it sounded as if the
party—whoever he might be—was paying a like
attention to the door. The now thoroughly
aroused citizen crept softly out of bed, snatched
up a revolver, and stole down stairs like a cat on
a galvanised lean-to. He took with him no light,
and sidled gently towards the door. There was a
clicking going on ; a bit of wire gracing—though
not loudly—in the wards of the lock. In the room
above sat Thompson’s brother, writing. He, too,
heard the olioking sound. He made a movement
towards the door of his room. His brother heard
it, and stole softly upstairs, to meet him with a
lighted candle in his hand. To explain the situa-
tion, blow out the candle, and for both men to
descend was the work of a moment. Pressure
was applied. The door strained on its hinges.
According to arrangement, during one of the
pauses the bolt was shot back ; silently, breath-
lessly, the latch was lifted. Pressure waa again
applied. The door flew open with a bang, and the
lock-picker tumbled into the room, receiving a
smack on the point of the iaw which felled him to
the earth in transit. Thompson covered the
prostrate housebreaker with his revolver. “ Where
did you come from?” He had lost his way.
He was frightened. “ That won’t do, sonny.
What’s your name?" Oh, his name was
Wilkie. “ Wilkie, is it, alias what ?" Pros-
trate housebreaker nonplussed. “ Where’s your
jemmy, eh ? Roll up your trousers. Take off
.your boots and let us have a look ! ” He pro-
tested, the other insisted, covering his man with
the revolver the while. So he was compelled to
take off his boots and roll up his trousers. Sure
enough jemmy, picklocks, skeleton-keys, all the
stock-in-trade and working paraphernalia of a
regular professional burglar. “ Git 1 ” The robber
rose. “ Stay 1 I’ll call a policeman. I’ll give
you five years for this, my flue fellow." The man
groaned. “No 1 clear off this time. You won’t
come here again. If you do you’ll get a dose of
lead in your skull. We’re generally awake in
this quarter, and we receive your sort with ball-
cartridge.” The man skulked. The treatment he
met with did him more good than five years on
the roads.
Overheard on the Randwlck grand-stand.
Fair one, loudly and fiercely, to sympathetic
(feminine companion: ‘I hate to be neglected I
He needn’t tell me he’s having his lunch 1 ” The
band drowned the rest, but the vigour which she
pub into her tones showed that “he ’’—husband,
brother, lover, or whatever he was—was booked
for a bonnie fifteen minutes when she got her
little white hands in his hair.
*
Governor Jervois, of N.Z., gives umssum-
ing bun-Btruggles now and then, at which the
Civil Service puts on elaborate side, and Smith, of
the Treasury, experiments to see how much bread
and jam he can dab round the sides of the gulf In
which he puts his hash. One of these affairs was
held one evening recently, and all the diplomatic
and military departments were there discoursing
strategy and other lofcy subjects, when the sten-
torian voice of the menial at the door announced
“Mr. Browne.” The new-comer rushed up to
Sir William and shook hands with him, and told
him that it seemed like old times to meet him
again, and his Excellency, with a vague idea that
they had been boys together somewhere or other,
murmured out something to the effect that it was
with no ordinary pleasure that he gazed once
more upon the lineaments of Mr. Browne. Then
Browne strolled round the room with the aspect
of a duke, and Jervois, hardly knowing what to
do with him, beckoned to a battle-scarred veteran
who had seen much dinner service, and asked in
an undertone who the swell might be. The battle-
scarred veteran look od at him for a moment and
recognised him. It was the temporary clerk in
the dog-tax office. Tableau 1
* * *
American ladies have somehow acquired a
toilet secret which many a British and Australian
dame would give her back-hair to possess. At
the age of 45, or thereabouts, the female of the
human race generally begins to wrestle with the
fluff upon her cranium, and tries to persuade her-
self that it isn’t turning grey. But it is turning
grey all the same. There are silver threads
among the gold, and many an elderly lady whose
powerful extremities and frame like that of a
oanal-boat officer sesm to suggest that she is too
muscular for the melting mood, weeps bitter
tears and prances round the room when she gets
out of bed on a cold morning and finds that she is
more grizzly than she was the previous night. At
this stage of her existence she has two resources
before her. Either she must dye and become a
purple-black monstrosity, or she must struggle
through the dreadful intervening period between
the dark hair of youth and the beautiful silver-
white of age as best she can, and in the event of
her choosing the latter alternative, the chances
are that Bhe perishes before the goal is reached—
fades away of her own back-hair and its attendant
misery. The American lady, however, cuts
the process short. When she finds that the
end of the human frame which she eats with is
beginning to lose its colour she retires for a week
or so, and then comes out again with a wealth
of beautiful white hair which keeps its colour for
ever afterwards, and makes the face of middle
age look quite jouthful by comparison. Young
men begin to worship her again at this stage, and
send her bouquets, and she enjoys the pleasures
of a dual existence—her face is young enough to
make the male deceiver fall in love with her, and
her hair is old enough to protect her against
slander. Sho doesn’t flirt, but she can temporarily
adopt an orphan dude and make him take her
round, and when she is tired of his company, she
can hunt up a fresh orphan any day. But she
keeps her religiously, and her piebald
foreign rivals sigh enviously and wonder how she
does it.
* * *
The Boidi Aquarium management's ad-
vertising Lanoeah caracoles through the streets
of Sydney smoking a scrumptious clay pipe,
which projects beneath his snowy helmet with its
nodding plumes like a steamer funnel beneath a
holiday awning. There is a universe of satire in
this radiant creature’s parody of the beautiful
youth that enoircle the gorgeous chariot of
N.S.W. vioe-regality, but the Bondi people do not
make as much of the effigy as they might. In
addition to the clay pipe, we would suggest, by
way of lance, a barber’s pole, indicating, in ii s
variegated elongation, the genealogy of the
martial suckling. The anoient barber was a
lancer also—a sort of blood-letter and family
physician in mufti. Dirty, mud-bespattered boots
would not be inappropriate by way of legend, in
regard to the vulgar rabble upon which the
radianb soldier treads. A turkey beneath his arm
as illustrative of the sort of provender the Lancer
regales himself with when camping in the country
in the neighbourhood of hostile poulbry-yards—
the property of tiie unwashed, unbarbered, unper-
fumed cinaille. Should the Bondi people desire
a further list of lampooning paraphernalia for
their advertising warrior a letter addressed to the
religious editor of The Bulletin would, in the
probability of its catching that gentleman in the
intervals of his visits to the litble place round the
corner, possibly be received with every attention,
and considered in his usual prayerful manner.
• • .
A mining township up North possesses,
among other attractions, a sweet girl-blacksmith,
who has seoured nearly all the trade of the dis-
trict. She is a nice-looking girl, too, and could
stun an average bear with one blow of her flat if
she wanted to, but when a rare masher cornea
along and tries to make himself agreeable at the
expense of her occupation she generally subdues
him with a reproachful glance out of her big
brown eyes. If he takes the hint and goes away, well,
and good ; but if he hasn’t sense enough for thi£
WE stt
Wrtfct/ Wfe come .
oJr t'i TfuToM
Cffi:
CARNARVON.
and continues to hang round sho simply throws
him over the town, and goes on pounding the
horse-shoe which she has in hand as if nothing
had happened, while he gathers up the loose
fragments of himself and sadly crawls away.
* * *
TwoCarcoar (N.S.W.) girls made a bet
recently as to which would dress in the quickest
time. According to Caulfield, the winner did it
in 3 hours, 15 minutes, 42 seoonds.
• * #
We rise in a state of great excitement to ex-
plain that we can stand a joke as well as anybody,
but when some malevolent son of a gun wilfully
perpetrates such a thing as the following we are
not responslb’e for our actions, and are liable to
step on his head. Listen :
J ÜBNISHED Cottage to Let, containing large
. . mning and drawing rooms, breakfast room, chief
ll.'L 0 ,, 0111 ’ nrther-m-laws roam, children's room, boudoir
for the marchioness kitchen, laundry, &c.
Mother-in-law's room! Chain ns up to the pump
before we commit homicide ! Mother-in-law’s
boom ! Just as if the festive old girl didn’t oome
often enough as it is, and when we regretfully in-
form her that there is no apartment which we
can place at her disposal, doesn’t Bhe reply with
that unobtrusive smile of hers that she rather
likes to sleep on the coals!
* * *
On 10th December the marriage ceremony
was solemnised at the church of the French
Marists, Sydney, between Mr. John Leonard
Forde, formerly of the Sydney and now of the
Melbourne press, and Miss E. M. Doyla, daughter
of the late Mr James Doyla, for many years sub-
editor of the Maibourna Age, aud previously
member of the staff of the Dublin Nation.
* * *
A very distinguished person from home
came out to Sydaey a few months ago, and con-
descended to shed the light of his sm'la on a
beastly and benighted country. He resided for a
time with a high-toned kindred soul in an aris-
tocratic quarter ; he didn't “ put up,” or “ drop
in,” or “shake down,” or “hang out”—all
these things are low—but he “resided” in his own
noble way, and reflected credit by so doing. By-
and-bye the kindred soul’s friends began to hear
of the distinguished stranger, and invitations
rolled in—among them one from a wealthy squat-
ter-fellow up-country, who presently learned with
gratification that the lofty one was coming. The
squatter and his daughters were there to receive
him, bat, to their disgust, he proved less lofty than
they had anticipated—in fact, the youngest
daughter took the old man aside and said plain-
tively : “ Pa, he ain’t the least like the son Of a
hearb He isn’t nice a bit.” The stranger was
short, stout, and red-faced. He was jerky and
assertive, and wore large biota. His hands were
big and h's legs we-e scanty, and he hadn't known
the family two hours before he winked at the
prettiest of the three girls. When his host asked
him in impressive tones if he would have some
refreshment, he sa’d he guessed he could piek a
bit, though he ’ad ’ad a pork-pie in the train ; lie
always was handy at victuals-, ’f’wO df the young
ladies retired haug hfeily at this point. The earls they
met with in the LOndon Journal weren’t
,handy at victuals,” and didn’t eat po.’k-pies in
a train, and when the third sister joined them,
and reported that she had stayed to see the
animal feed, and had ascertained that he made a
gobbling noise all the time he was eating, they
began to wish that he hada’t come at all. Later
on, there was a sound of merriment beneath. The
lofty one was imbibing a drop of something short,
and telling trade anecdotes about one of the
“ fust firms ” in the soft-goods trade, and the old
man was wondering all tbe time where he got his
commercial knowledge, and why he fought so shy
of the subject of his aristocratic relations. As
the drop of something short grew sma'lsr at the
bottom of the bottle, the stranger put his feet on
the table, and began to tell hilarious anecdotes.
“ Biggod, old fellow, them was the very words
the party used, as sure as my name's Bob Jones,”
he said at the end of one yarn. “As sure as your
name’s what?’ screamed the squatter. “Yes;
they used to call me that for short, you know.
Sort of pet name, as you may say.” The visitor
was known in society as Ferdinand Courtenay
Howard, and ib occurred to the host that Bob
Jones was rather a remarkable abbreviation, but
he let it pass, and the visitor tottered to bed. He
woke up about the middle of the night and
cal'ed out “ Walter ” till he roused the housa,
but when the old man pranced in he
explained that he had forgotten where he was
and imagined for a moment that the plaoe was a
hotel. He added that he was “offal dry.” Next
morning he winked at all the three girla and in*
quired for the “ old lady,” which led to an ex-
planation that she had been dead for some years,
whereupon he remarked cheerfully that his mother
had also “ petered out.” “ She ate too much—
that’s the fact,” he added, candidly; “and went
off quite Budden." After breakfast, he filled up
the measure of his iniquity by kissing the slavey
in the passage, and as all the dishes went down in
a heap she hit him on his generous red ear and
made him howl. Then the exasperated squatter
threw him out so suddenly that he left bis tag-
gage behind him, and that station knew him no
more, Circumstances which afterwards arose led
to an inspection of his trunk, and the evidence
contained therein showed that the invitation had
somehow got into the wrong hands, and that a
bleeding country had been entertaining a bagman
unawares. This circumstance was duly explained
with apologies to the lof. y men from home, and
he said “ Haw 1” in a feeble voice, and felt more
than ever convinced that Australia was a beastly
country. “Low, common f’ler out there actually
had the dcooed impertinence to go round pretend-
ing to be me, dontyerseB,” he says in stunned
aocants whenever the subject comes up in eonver*
sation.
Concerning the affair which led to the
downfall of the labely-deCeasCi Colonel
Baker, a London correspondent thus wrote some
years ago
In the year 1875 Valentine Baker wat the lieutenant-
colonel of the Tenth Hussars, the swelled light-6ivalry
regiment in ,the service. He had been in the service since
before the Crimean War, and had served throughout that
campaign as a lieutenant iu the Twelfth Lancers. After
that he saw service in India and China and became iidtecl
for his dishing qualities. Brilliant, handsome, gifted, clevef;
brave, and able, be was a favourite among men, and pet
ameng women. lie was a great friend of the Prince of
Wale". The P. iucewas the honorary colonel of the : Tenth
Hussars-, and his being so, of course, gave an extra Mat j;o
the corps and its officers. In June, 1875, the Tenth were
quartered at Alderbhot, and,on tbe afternoon of thelvth
day of that month, Colonel Biker left North Camp Station
by the South-weßtem train for London, occupying a first-class
compartment all to himself. At Woking Station, just as the
bell was rung to start the train on again, a wagonette and pair
dashed into the stition-yard. In it were Mr. Dickinson (a
gen leman residing in the vicinity), who was driving bis
wife, daughter, ardgr om. With barely time to catch the
train, the first oompartmeut Mr. Dickinson reached be
opened the door of, and put his daughter into. It happened
to be Colonel Baker s. Miss Dickinson was known as a great
beauty at this time. It was the period when blondes were:
all the rage, and she was regarded as a sample to swear by.
Her brother was an officer in the Royal Engineers, and she
herself was by no means unknown at garrison balls and
places where officers do mostly resort; and her golden hair
and aiture eyes were sot off by a form and figure that might
have been a model for a sculptor. Nor was her dress the
least of her attractions On the present occasion she was
dressed in a Short travelling costume of blue serge, whidfi
fitted her like a glove, and displayed beneath hcr.scunt
drapeiie3—it being the Zenith of the 11 pull-back” per 1 id-~a
pair of fairy-like feet. in patent‘leathBr Boots and goldftn-
clpcked blue Silk Stockings. A jaunty blue : veHet found hat
with a White gull's feather in it crowned her head, while a
iiarrdw iltrip of black lace served for a mask veil. A friend
of mine who happened to be on the train has given me tins
description. At Ciapham Junction, the passengers were
th own into a great state of excitement by the intelligence
that when the t-ain bad come dashing up to the platform,
the doc r of Colonel Baker's compartment was wide
open, and the Colonel holding fast with one hand to Miss
Dickinson, who stood hatless upon the step outside. A
great commotion followed. Briefly, Miss Dickinson's story
was that she did not know Colonel Baker, even by sight)
that the train had hardly left Woking when he entered into
conversation with her j that her short replies had no efiec't,
but that, in spite of her coldness, his manner became morS
familiar and his linguags improper, hiS offensive actions
culminating in his stooping dotVh and grasping he*' by ons dr
her ankles; that thereupon She jumped up and tried, to let
the alarm in mdtiou, But being intercepted by Colonel
Baker, atdnot knowiiig what else to do, she sprang to the
door, burst it open, and swung hersolf out upon the steps,
the train going at the ti me at the rate of forty miles an
hour; that Colonel Baker sprang after her, and, unable to
draw her back into the compartment, he'd her firmly from
falling, as she might otherwise have done. la reply,
Colonel Baker had not a word to say, except to give
an absolute denial to the whole story, or at least
Miss Dickinson’s versim of it. But at length, at
the Croydon Assizes, before Mr. Justice Lush, of tbe
Queen s Bench, Colonel B rker was tried for criminal ansaulti
Colonel Baker was convicted, and sentenced to a year s im-
prisonment in Maidstone gaol) and a fine of five hundred
pounds. He was cashiered from the army, losing his com-
mission money—--the same being the modest sum of sik
thousand pounds; he was expelledpfrom all his clubs, add
disgraced in every way. The w (3ueen, to show ht:r
special resentment, sent for Miss Dickinson to dome add
see her at Buckingham Palace, and commiserated with her.
In fact, site tried to make a heroine of her. But she couldri’t
make that go. Besides, there were people who knew Misa
Dickinson pi-etty well, and though Colonel Baker, neither at
the trial nor id any public ihannbs ever said a word to iiijufe
her, it somehow got whispered about that she was not alto-
gether blameless in the matter, and that
So, altogether, tho \gh she succeeded in ruining Valelitine
Baker, she pretty effectually ruinOd herself as well.
* » *
A nes? chum, signing himself “ Full Up,”
has written a letter to the Melbourne Herald
Calculated to make the kangaroo sit right up. He
says: “ Melbourne simply reeks with filth> and
some of the largest buildings in Collinfi-streetj
with their gingerbread and wedding cake orna-
ment architecture (he hasn't seen Sydney General
Post-office) possess back premises that would not
he permitted to exist in Billingsgate Pish Market
' . . You who boast of the splendour df yotir
‘ (Jaeen City of the South,’ look out of yorir rail-
Way-carriags-windows at the hovels you pass oil
ydur way to marvellous Melbourne, and say if A
ihorc woebegone and filthy fringe hangs to the
skirts of much abused London.” What “Fall
tip ” further remarks about the cost of necessaries
(except that eternal meat) applies equally to every
city and township in this great country, and his
sheers at tbe make-believe nature of Melbourne
magnificence should have a more than local interest*
But the “ Qaeen City ” certainly takes the oake
for squalid prosperity and go ahead ugliness. It
is a fact that in London you can get a solid roomy
house, with a respectable bit of garden, for half
the rental of a Melbourne weatherboard shanty,
Surrounded by a few feet of slimy yard. It is a fact
that no Londoner (unlesshe has been banquettedas
a distinguished visitor) can travel on a Melbourne
suburban line without turning up his nose at the
apparently poverty-stricken surroundings. Rotten
wood fences for sturdy brick walls—tumble-down,
open wash-dens for well-built outhouses—filthy
right-of-ways for decent side entrances —and rows
upon rows of Undiscussable edifices standing
boldly out against the landscape like regiments of
soldiers. The Melbourne Herald is rather given
to inflating the Young Australian mind with
patriotio gas, but The Bulletin has often re-
marked that the “ old colonists,” who are chiefly
responsible for colonial b'ow, had little experience
of outside civilisation. And poor “ Full Up ”
views the matter from an outside standpoint. He
is never likely to be conducted by obsequious
counciliors into the Town Hall, which is now
being beautified with a £12,000 portico. He feels
no sense of Imperial admiration for big banks in
which he hasn’t opened an account. But he
smells bad drainage, and blushes for the down
right immodesty of everyday sanitary arrange-
ments.
An«obituary notice in a Melbourne paper
on a p rty by toe name of Parsons runs thus :
“ To dis is gain,
All earthly joy forsaking,
From toll and pain
To endless joy awaking.”
It may be for parsons. And yet they have a
pretty good time, taking ib all round, in this vale
of tears. The “ earthly joy ” referred to in the
second line is evidently an inadvertent confession
of this The “ toil and pain ”is obviously a mare
after thought,


“I can’t make out how Ha T ry goes on, Tom.
Before Xmas. I knew him to be iat olvent, now he
smiles his old smile, end his busi e s seems to be
flourishing anew.” “Mf boy, that matter his
puzzled many, but I fe now what saved H*rry-—”
“I suppose Ihe father-in-law paid up aga ? n?”
“Oh dear, no. Hairy put £1 ii ‘Australia’s’
Consultation, and drew Vespacls. The £l6OO
saved him, and, as there is one or £5OOO on the
Anniversary Handicap, I, too, mean to speculate,”
Address—“ Australia,” care of Mr. H. Dalveen,
George-street, Sydney N.S.W."
Opera house.
Corner of York and King Streets.
Frank Clark ... Lessee.
A SENSATION EVERY EVENING.
ELECTRIC SUCCESS
of our
SECOND! PROGRAMME
SECOND PROGRAMME.
SUCCESS OF OUR SEXTETTE OF SOLOISTS.
Success of our FOUR PREMIER CORNER MEN.
Frank M. Clark. William Cameron.
Charles Hanson. J. W. Wilson.
Performance at 8 sharp ; terminates at 10.20.
Admission—ls., 35., and Is.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
Q RITERION theatre,
Sole Proprietor ... ... Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager ... ... Mr. Joe Davis.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 1888,
AND EVERY EVENING.
OUR HOLftIAY ATTRACTION,
JACK SHEPPARD. JACK SHEPPARD.
JACK SHEPPARD ... Miss FANNY ROBINA
BLUEBKIN Mr. E. W. ROYCE
supported by the ENTIRE BURLUSQUE
COMPANY.
THE SPLENDID CHORUS OF 60 VOICES.
THE MAGNIFICENT ORCHESTRA,
under the Baton of
Mr. F._ STANISLAUS.
Box plan in the Office of the Theatre where
seats may be reserved from 10 to I.
LHAMBBA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington.
A HAPPY NEW YEAR TO ALL.
THIS NEW YEAR STILL FINDS US IN THE
SYDNEY ALHAMBRA.
Occupying the Premier Position of Modern
Minstrelsy.
Crowds Nightly to see Our New First Part
Crowds Nightly to see Our New Second Part
Crowds Nightly to see Our Christmas Tree
Crowds Nightly to see Our Burlesque
Crowds Nightly to see Our Golden Showers.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Balcony, 6d.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager ... F. E. Hiscocks.
HAPPY NEW YMAR TO ALL.
LAST NIGHTS LAST NIGHTS
of the only
MACCABE. M A C C A B E. M ACC ABE,
in his world-renowned Entertainment,
BEGONE DULL CARE.
Prices : 35., 25., and Is. Reserved Seats, Is.
TB ■A * H fl KOYAF.
Under the Direction of
Messra, Williamson, Garner, and Mußgrove,
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lasar,
GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
or
Harlequin and the King of the Cannibal Islands.
Prices: —Dress circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Circle, Is.
C°
OGEE AQUARIUM
AND
SWIMMING BATHS,
GRAND OPENING DAY,.
FRIDAY NEXT,
December 23rd, 1887, at 3 o'clock,
UNDER THE PATRONAGE
OF
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD CARINGTON.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
HHR MAJESTY'S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison.
Doors open 7.; Performance 8.; Carriages 10.30.
GO AND SEE
IN THE RANKS IN THE RANKS.
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
and
Miss KATE BISHOP.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.'s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the oomfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given In the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the solenoe of self-defence.
Classes now open,
When m Sydney, » you miss Folk's you
Have not seen the cite.
PSALMS.
(REVISED).
HEAR this, all ye people, and give ear all ye
invalids of the world, bell’s bitters will
make you well atd to rejoice;
2. It Bhall cure all the people and put sickness
and suffering under foot.
3. Be thou not afraid when your family is
sick, or you have Bright’s disease or Liver Com-
plaints, for bell’s bitters will cure you.
i. Both low and high, rich and poor know the
value of bell’s bitters for bilious, nervous and
Rheumatic complaints.
5. Cleanse me with bell’s bitters and I shall
have robust and blooming health.
6. Add disease upon disease and let the worst
come, I am safe if I use bell’s bitters.
7. For all my life have I been plagued with
sickness and sores, and not until a year ago was I
cured by bell’s bitters,
8. He that keepeth his bones from aching from
Rheumatism and Neuralgia, with bell’s bitters
doeth wisely.
9, Though thou hast sores, pimples, freckles,
salt rheum, erysipelas, blood poisoning, yet bell’s
bitters will remove them all.
10. What woman is there, feeble and sick from
female complaints, who desireth not health and
useth bell’s bitters and is made well.
11. Let not neglect to use bell’s bitters bring
on serious Kidney and Liver complaints.
12. Keep the tongue from being furred, thy
blood pure, and thy stomach from Indigestion by
using bell’s bitters.
“I Have Suffered!”
With every disease imaginable for the last thre
years. Our
Druggist, T. J. Anderson, recommending
“ Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters” to me,
I used two bottles 1
Am entirely cured, and heartily recommend Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters to every one. J. D.
Walker, Buckner, Mo.
I write this as a
Token of the great appreciaton I have of your
Dr. Soule’s American Hop
* * * Bitters. I was affl ct d
With inflammatory rheumatism !!!
Bor nearly
Seven years, and no medicine seemed to do me
any
Until I tried two bottles of your Dr. Soules
American Hop Bitters, and to my suprise I am
as well to day as ever I was, I hope
“ You may have abundant success"
“ In this great and”
Valuable medicine:
Anyone! * * wishing to know more
about my cure?
Can learn by addressing me, E. M. Williams,
1,103 16th street, Washington, D.C,
1 consider your
Remedy the best remedy in existence
For Indigestion, kidney —Complaint.
“ And nervous debility. I have just”
Returned
“ From the south in a fruitless search for health
and And that your Bitters are doing me more
Good!
Than anything else;
A month ago I was extremely
“ Emaciated! 11”
And scarcely able to walk. Now I am
Gaining strength 1 and
“Flesh!”
And hardly a day passes but what I am
* * * * *
complimented on my improved appearance, and
it is all due to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters !
J. Wiokliffe Jackson,
—Wilmington, Del.
MT None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule's name blown in
the bottle. Bkwarb of all the vllepolaonous stuff
made to imitate the above,
SMOKE AND OHEW
UHT dim
TOBACCO.
MADE OF THE FINEST AMERICAN
LEAF.
The largest and best plug sold in
the colony for 6d.
t&IMY
& t
N AV'T
CUT TOBACCOS.
On receipt of P. O. Order for £1 Is. we will
immediately forward 31bs. VULCAN MIXTURE
in ilb. Packets, noted for its fine flavqur, together
with a SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR PIPE in
case. And a nice TOBACCO POUCH.
THE SMOKERS’ CHRISTMAS BOX,
consisting of
SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR
or
MEERCHAUM PIPE,
and
41b. finest AMERICAN LONG CUT RUBY,
sent to any part of the oolony upon receipt of
P. O. Order or stamps for 10s. 6d.
TO LOVERS OF A GOOD CIGAR.
Send your orders to us. and get a box of
REAL GOOD SMOKERS, for 10s. 6d.
Carriage free to any part.
GIVE US A CALL
When doing George-street, and you will find we
have the largest and best assortment
of
TOBACCOS, CIGARS, PIPES, TOBACCO
POUCHES, PURSES, MATCH BOXES,
and
All other artioles apertaining to the trade.
PRESENTATION WALKING STICKS.
COME,
If only to Inspect these. We have almost every
Hmt of stick obtainable, from the
stately
SILVER HEADED MALACCA
to the lowly
BAMBOO.
Varying in price from 6d. to £1 Is.
TO HAIRDRESSERS.
Your trade requirements,
OUR SPECIAL STUDY.
Send to us for anything you want in your line,
We can furnish you with every requisite
from
A HAIR CUTTING COMB
to
an American, or any other
HAIRDRESSERS CHAIR.
We recommend you to send for one of our razors,
PLUM BRAND,
set ready for use. Manufactured expressly
for
HAIRDRESSERS.
N.B.—Hair made up in any design,
OWEST PRICES, WITH DESPATCH.
CM AND Aimi,
Tobacconists’ and Hairdressers’
Sundrymen,
680 & 682 GEORGE ST.,
Between Liverpool and Goulburn streets.
MAKE NO MISTAKE,
CUT THE ADDRESS OUT.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, Is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will And
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARGES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England.
Port Adelaide, October 30 1886.
Oentlemen, —I have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s D anelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I oan, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them, —
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness reoeived by
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
j^OWS
! ife
EMBROCATION
3
\SOID
VMIS
A EVERYWHERE'
JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT.
BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
GUARANTEED FREE FROM ALL POISON-
OUS QUALITIES. NO ARTIFICIAL COLOR-
ING, as the GREEN color Is extracted from the
pure green plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFBER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you i
READ THIS LETTER, and TRY FOR YOUR-
SELVES.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson's Oint-
ment for piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you
feel disposed.
I remain, yours, &c.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others, and equalled by none.
FACTS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen
STATUTORY DECLARATIONS.
“I, 'GEORGE HEWETT, do hereby solemnly
and sincerely declare as follows
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water,
and I hope others suffering from the Bame com-
plaint will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT
215 Pitt-street.
“ Declared at Sydney, August 12, 1881, befoc
me,
“ (Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P."
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STBANE
BITTERS, prepared solely by
EDW ROW and COMPANY.
It was on the Barcoo, in the rousing old
days of big cheques and bigger sprees, when a
veteran shepherd, on a certain station, in running
round a mob of ewes and lambs to force them into
a yard close to the boss’s homestead, dropped dead
in his tracks. The squatter, a regular colonial,
experience man fresh from an English university,
knew as much of the law as one of Inglis's J’s.P.,
and had the old hand shovelled into a deep grave
on a sandhill hard by, without the semblance of a
prayer or a wake. The wheels of justice often
got bogged in those days, and consequently it was
many Sundays after when the mounted police
sergeant and his full private drew rein at the
homestead verandah, and were warmly greeted
by the boss and a stiff glass of rum. “ Anything
up?" asked the squatter. “Not much,” replied
the sergeant, “ only we’ve come to see about that
old man of yours that pegged out lately.” “ Why,
what about him ?” “Nothing, only I’ve got to
dig him up and hold an inquest as to the cause of
death.” “ The cause of death,” exclaimed the
squatter, “ why you don’t think we’ve killed
him?” “Oh, dear no, only the law requires it.
That’s all.” “ Then I’ll see you d
before I let you dig up that old man,”
was the reply. After a strong remonstrance
the sergeant caved in, well aware that his
chief and the squatter were pretty “thick.”
Next morning the members of the force rode
homeward to concoct the best report they could.
Months subsequently the squatter, on his way to
town for supplies, dropped in to have a yarn with
the district police inspector. They chatted cor-
dially, until at length the officer adred, “What
was it, by t.e-bye, that made you so infernally
rusty about raising that o'd man of yours ? ’ “Ob!
a likely thing I was going to have that old joker
dug up : he had a cheque of mine for £35 in his
trousers pocket.”


Centrally
SITUATED
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TOAUTKE LEAOISC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DAK! I ELLS IMPERIAL HO
EL
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
HGirgSOUTH
VI r p OF THE
EQUATOR
JJuB
1
Si:
V,
->
53
m
m
as
pp^-
i
'isjuUkw'MW*
DAN I ell
c»
WL
LL&.
SM
S
llte
TME MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH All THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies, Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a mapificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths, COMMERCIAL ROOM,
Gentlemen's Smoking, Reading, and Corresponding Room, All letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention, C, H. DAJHEM,
AEiHAMBBA music ball
Gsorge-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Condnotorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
Hrsn-cr,AS3 Dentistry 1 at Reform Prioes
ARTIFICIALTEETH
rOMPLETESFT
MARSHALL BRO:
I DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas dally at 11.
(CRITERION HOTEL, R ARRANDERA, N.S. W
J First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor.
Hood Sample Rooms.
AGENTS WANTED
To handle our fast selling lines. Speoial Induce-
ment offered to first-class salesmen.
Full particulars on application to
25- 23. JOITES,
6 BRIDGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
Y& N
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have triea."
Signed Marie KSze.
THE
Y*N
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not split in the Seams no
tear the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect Com
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
_ Beware of worthless imita
tions. Every genuine Y & N
Corset stamped “ Y & N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,”
in oval.
Three Gold Medals!!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
ROLLER
SKATES.
:- T
ROLLER
SKATES.
I A K PAIRS in stock. Best Skate
* " * W" " ever imported to Australia.
The celebrated “ WINNER” ROLLER SKATES,
complete with all recent improvements. Adopted
by the leading American Rinks for reason of their
Perfect a ction, Durability, Lightness, and Ele-
gance. Intending purchasers should order "now
for next season, before 1 nes are broken. For sale
to Rinks and Dealers in lots to suit, at prices that
defy competition, by the manufacturers. MUNCIE
ROLLER SK ATE CO., 205 Clarence-street, Sydney.
Clgrax BiTretaa.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes,
R. CLIFFORD,
CABTLEREAGH STREET,
Ashfield recreation ground and
GARDEN PALACE.
CHRISTMAS CARNIVAL WEEK.
THURSDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 29th.
Special Engagement of the
KINGSLEY BROTHERS,
PREMIER TRICK BICYCLISTS of the WORLD.
Owing to the Inclemency of the Weather the
Opening of the Kingsley brothers and Pain’s Dis-
play will be POSTPONED until Thursday Night.
PAIN’S GORGEOUS ILLUMINATION OF
GROUNDS.
Gigantic Display of Fireworks.
Admissission : GRAND STAND and GARDEN
PALACE, 2s. ; GROUNDS, Is.
The Whole Grounds Illuminated by Electric
Light.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager,
BOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
os’ Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conduotorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
Grand centennial intercolonial
EXHIBITION.
To be held by
THE AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW
SOUTH WALES,
AT MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
from January 21 to January 31, 1888.
ENTRIES in all Sections CLOSE on SATURDAY,
JANUARY 7, at 1 p.m. £5OOO IN PRIZES.
There being some SEVEN HUNDRED (700)
FIRST PRIZES in the List, exclusive of all
CHAMPION PRIZES, and Seconds.
For Advance Condensed Prize Schedule see
“Town and Country Journal” of December 10.
“ Sydney Mail” of December 10. “ Tribune” of
December 16. Complete Schedule (in pamphlet
form) giving full information, may be obtained
from the various Agricultural Societies through-
out the colony, and from the SECRETARY,
Hunter street. JUDGING DAY—TUESDAY,
JANUARY 24. Grand Opening Ceremonial by
His Excellency, Lord Carington, on WEDNES-
DAY, JANUARY 25, at Noon, Various Lines of
Coasting and Intercolonial Steamers have agreed
to c*rry exhibits to and fro on payment of freight
one way, and the council hope to obtain from the
Government Special Concessions on Rail Carriage of
Exhibits and Visitor’s Rail fares. Exhibits bred
or preduced in Australia will be in Competition
for Centennial Special and Champion Prizes, also
for the Regular Schedule prizes.
ADMISSION—Members Free on Presentation
of Ticket. Judging Day—Non-Members, 2s. 61. ;
Children, Is. All other Days—Non-Members, Is.:
Children, 6d.
The EXHIBITION will be Open at 11 a.m., and
CLOSE at 5 p.m. Each Day.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Tattersall's Buildings, Hunter-steeet, Sydney.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel is constructed on the most modern principles
Large and well ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydraul Lift for Guests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.
READ
“The Lithgow Enterprise,
AND
“Australian Land Nationalise!*.”
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW, N.S.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
TOUIfcT
IT Is the authorised organ of the Land Nationalisation Association of New South Wales. It
object Is to firmly inaugurate in Australia Henry George’s great BCheme of Land Reform—to d >
ror these colonies what the Standard is doing for America. It has already a more wide-spread
circulation than any country paper in the colony, and reaches nearly every part of New South Wales,
it is smartly and fearlessly written, and every man who has the interests of his fellow-men at heart
should get It, and induce others to do so. Everybody interested in this movement who does not al-
ready belong to the Association is requested to write to the editor.
THE SUBSCRIPTION IS—l2s. PER ANNUM.
AGENTS WANTED. LIBERAL TERMS GIVEN. SEND FOR SPECIMEN COPIES.
This BEER
awarded at
Adelaide Ex-
hibition First
t’rize Gold Med At,
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
EDINEU~R.n-TT
R. CUNYNGHAME, Bond-street, Sydney,
In bulk
and case.
Best] BEER
In the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels.
yTASONIC HOTEL, EAST-STREET, ROCK
HAMPTON.—T, MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings I—The “Western Cham-
pion" says i “ I can reoommend the Rookhampton
I ttonlo to my western friends.’
FITZROY BOTBX.,
EAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON.
MT FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
Plunge and Shower Bath,
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge,
Good Stabling, Every Accommodation,
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN.N.sTw.
fiTIIRST CLASS accommodation for oommerolal
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
% nple rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny's Bath 3, St. Kilda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and its after effects.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
simply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
A Blessing in every Family
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanitjfctheir beneficent
action is at once recognised!
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
UST Purchassers should look to the Label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street London, they
are spurious.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
svnMrv
IMPORTERS OF AU THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
teS a! QUKBH iTKIES, BKSBBANF,
JUST IMPORTED,
500 CRICKET BATS,
10/6 each, B “ 'tSfCL..
All-cane spliced Handles in 16 pieces,
TENNIS E ACQUETS, BALLS, &c,
Equally Cheap and Good.
BTTRROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George St,, Hunter St,, Sydney.
,** . S I L B ¥
us,??! (i»te at the Debeotlvo^Foroe'
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agenoy Office,
Cl EOYAL ARCADB, SYDNEY,
AbMondera and wife deserters traced, and all kindi al
oaMentisi Inquiries instituted Evidence obtained in
Slveree. libel, (rand, and incendiary oases, (or the legal pro*
isssslcn and others. Copies of wills, certificates o( birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part o( the world
Rants and debts collected. From R. M. B.'s long experience
ta She Detective Foroe o( New South Wales, Viotoria, and
*;®jr Zealand, and established agencies in ail parts of the
stone, he Is in a position to oonduot all inquiries with oantion
npHdti&B and strictest seoresy, and to and
•■mgr--,!? attend to all bnsiness entrusted to b ear®.
BtFORB moustache and Whiskers. teFons aftim
m
Copyrighted.
Boyd*B Beard Elixir did this, i
yind loill do it on either bald
'head or bare face■ Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fails, 20,000*
young men already wear full
CopyrioliteS.
beards, having used 1 to 3 pkts. ]Vo injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, I#. (Jci. each , 3 for 3.9. Gd., post paid, sent under
cover, free from observation . Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent
linx 730. G. P. 0., Sydney, X S. W, '


Do not ba Discouraged,
Even if you have tried many remedies for your
kidney disease or liver complaint without success
it is no reason why you should think your disorder
incurable The most intractable cases readily yield
to the potent virtues of dr. bell’s bitters.
It is a purely vegetable cam pound, which ac’s on
the kidneys, liver and bowles at the same time,
and thus cleanses the whole system. Don’t wait,
but get a bottle to-day and cure yourself
Sufferers from Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica and
other analogous affections should try Freeman's Original
Chlorodyue, a m'dicine that has, since its introduction in
1844, been employt a on a very large scale both by the
Htdical P,ofession and the Public in every part of the
habitable Globe, with unvaried succes. Since its introduc-
tion into New South Wales the popularity of Freeman’s
Chlorodyne has been considerably enhanced, and is now re-
garded as the-most efficient and valuable medicine that has
ever been introduced into the Colony. The Profession pre-
scribe it; Missionaries prefer and use Freeman’s Chlorodyne,
and people leaving any of the principal porta for the interior
i» variably take a sufficient Bupply to last them a twelve-
month.—Sold -verywhere throughout the Colonies Insist
upon having “ Freeman’s ” only. Reject substitutes as they
are worthless. Trade mark, an Elephant *
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-street Arcade.*
WOMANS WISDOM.
11 She ins’sts that it is more importance that her family
shall be kept in full health, than th»t she should have all
the fashionable dresses and sty'es of the limeu She there
fore sees to it that each member of her family is supplied
with enough of Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters at the first
appearance of any symptoms of ill-health, to prevent a fit of
sickness with its attendant expense, care and anx eiy. All
women should exercise their wisdom in this way." “ New
Haven Pa'ladine.”*
FROM THE HUB.
There is perhaps no tonic offered to the people that
possesses as much real intrinsic value as Dr. Soule s Ameri-
can Hod Bittn s. Just at this season of the year, when the
stomach neels an appetiser or the blood Deeds purifying,
the cheapest and best remedy is Dr. Soule's American Hop
liitte s. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure;
don’t wait until you are p.ost’ated by a dsease that may
take months for you to reoover in. “ Boston Globe.’ *
William's Australian Insecticide is death to allinsects.
Simple in apj lication—su r e in effect. This is the only genuine
Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death t» all kinds
of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal life, and
therefore may be used without the slightest apprehersion.
For the extermination of Mosquitos especially, the Insecti-
cide has no equal—as the funnes of the burnt powder, while
throwing off a pleaBant odour, are at the same time most
destructive to them Sold in Is. boxes by all chemist r and
storekeepers. Manufactured inly by W. Williams,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-st>eet, Newtown. Wh rle-
sale from Messrs Elliott Bros , and E. Prosser & Co.*
Consumption, Wasting Diseases and General
Debiliiy — Dootors disagree as to the relative value of
Cod Liver Oil and Hypophosphitesthe one supplying
strength and flesh, the other giving nerve i ower and acting
as a tonic to the digestive and entire system. But In
“ Scott s Emulsion or Pure Cod Liver Oil with
Hypophosphites " the two are combined, and the effect is
wonderful. Thousands who have derived no permanent
benefit from other preparations have been cured by this.
Scott's Emulsion is perfsctly paLtable and is easily
digested even by those who cannot tolerate plain Cod Liver
Oil. Sold by all Chemists, two a zes, large and small.*
Commence th3 Year Right.
Don’t make too many resolution, but hold on
like grim death to those you do make If your
physical system is out of order you should attend
to that at once, for it’s no use trying to keep a stiff
upper lip when you Kidneys or liver are taking the
courage out of you. If you lave really made up
your mind to turn over a new leaf, commence the
year by taking a thor ugh course of the celebrat ed
dr bell’s bitters. Thousands of people testify
to its goods eff ots for kidney diseases, biliousness,
piles, constipation, &c.
&s
m
R
ARCEST
WORKS
28&3o in thE Colony
BRIDGE ST! CVR N FV
(S 227'229r.10Rtif Sl' “ 1U 11 1 ■
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BRIGHTON OB 1 2T_S_W_ **
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Sappers. Private Dinners, Evening Parties &o are
served on the shortest notloe in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most ’recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country •
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and pionlc parties provided. Table
de Hote at 1 o’clock dally and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kiiminster to make her visi-
tors comfort able, and her Hotel the best in the Colony,
MRS Clarendon Hotel,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
Lawler’s Centennial Prize Gifts in
Hard Cash.
Ist. GIFT, £5O Cash.
2nd. GIFT, £2O Cash.
3rd. GIFT, £l5 Cash.
4th. GIFT, £lO Cash.
sth. GIFT, £5 Cash.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
4th. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
These sums,
less 10 per cent,
will be paid to
the winners,
the 10 per cent,
going to the
Industrial
Blind Insti-
tute, Boomer-
ang-street, one
of whose in-
mates will
draw dupli-
cates in the
presence of
several well-
known citizens
lßt. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
4th. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
BUY FREELY FROM BUY FREELY FROM
TO-DAY OUT. TO DAY OUT.
AT
LAWLER S
FIRST CHRISTMAS AND CENTENNIAL
CARNIVAL
in the
NEW EMPORIUM, 608 GKORGE-STREET
SYDNEY.
Country customers will reap the benefit as well
as city customers, because they can write for the
ILLUSTRATED Catalogue, containing BOOTS,
CLOTHES, CARPETS, LADIES UNDER-
CLOTHING, IRONMONGERY and GLASS and
CHINA WARE, BEDSTEADS, FURNITURE, &c.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
Ith. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
Grateful for
the share of
support accor-
ded thorn since
the NEW
CBNTKAL
was opened,
LAWLERS
have deter-
mined to s!g-
nal 1s e the
months of DE-
CEMBER and
JANUARY by
giving away
these gifts to
those who pur
chase.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
Ith. GIFT, £lO
5 th. GIFT, £5
And in addition to these Gifts, which may fall
to you my hind reader, bear this important fact
in mind, LAWLER'S extraordinary OCTOBER
sale prices will apply in every department
throughout the 1:
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
Ith. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
Yes, in ad-
dition to these
gifts you have
the wonderful
bargain prices
of October.
The prices that
set SYDNEY
by the ears,
and doubled
LAWLER’S
business in a
bound.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
Ith. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
Every PURCHASER will have an Equal In-
terest The little girl who buys a thimble. The
housewife who buys a cup and saucer, or a knife
and fork. The young man who buys a pair of boots.
The youth, man, or boy, who buys a suit of clothes.
The lady buying corsets or mosquito-net ourtains.
The couple furnishing.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
Ith. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
ALL, ALL,
ALL will re-
ceive a num-
bered involoe
which they
will please
preserve until
January 31,
1888. It will
be upon the
production of
the numbered
bill or invoice
that the money
will be given.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, 15£
Ith. GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
BUY YOUR BOOTS AND SHOES WHERE YOU
WILL STAND TO GET A £5O NOTE
THROWN INTO THE BARGAIN.
Buy your CLOTHING Men where you will get
a pocket-linei
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
Ith, GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
in the shape o
Buy your
UNDER-
CLOTHIN G
Ladies, at
LAWLER’S
during Decem-
ber and Janu-
ary. Get all
your drapery
and other
wants, and
have several
interests.
a £5O NOTE.
Ist. GIFT, £5O
2nd. GIFT, £2O
3rd. GIFT, £l5
Ith, GIFT, £lO
sth. GIFT, £5
A snug sweet £5O, ladies. There’s a lot In that.
Furnish at LAWLER'S, and get your Carpets there.
Furnish at LAWLER’S, and get your Bedding there.
Furnish at LAWLER’S, and get your Ironmon-
gery there.
Furnish at LAWLER’S, andgetyour Curtain there.
If you are in the country you can furnish through
the Catalogue as well as if in person in Sydney.
EACH PURCHASE gives an EXTRA INTEREST,
LAWLER’S Emporium prides during the
“ October ” Sale were the talk of Sydney and the
wonder of the trade. During DECEMBER and
JANUARY those Marvelous prices will apply.
£5O in the itching portion of a man’s palm ie
an exoitlng pinch of snuff. IT CAN BE YOURS,
aye, as certain as the sun shines bright to-day,
because YOUR RIGHTS ARE CO-EQUAL with
the other purchasers.
CALL OR WRITE. CALL OR WRITE,
ESTABLISHED 1860.
Hi a. lei’s.
[?] THE WRIERBURY
SENT EOR REVIEW.
“ Lorgnette,” in the Glasgow Evening News,
has the following
“ I have had many singular articles sent me for
‘ review ’inmy 1 ime. An enterprising merchant
once sent me a cheese, which I ate and enjoyed ;
and he followed this up soon afterwards by present-
ing me with a pot of raspberry jam. Umbrellas,
lead pencils, stocking?, ahem! (which burst the
first time I had them on), patent safety pins,
collars, and so forth, have been submitted for
inspection by my eagle eye.
“ The latest is a watch, known as 'The Water-
bury Watch.’ It Is ma .u?actured In America by
the Waterbnry Watch Comp my, and so extensive
has been the sale that the Company are now
establishing branches all over the world. I have
worn the Waterbary Watch for exactly a week,
and during that period it las kept accura'e time
—more so, indeed, than my own watch, which
cost a great deal more money. The Waterbury
Watch is a very simple contrivance. It will go
for two days with one winding up. is keyless, and
very easily regulated. I have tested the watch
thoroughly, and have nothir g but good to say cf it.
It is made of nickel silver, and costing only a trifle,
supplies a capital timekeeper for boys and work-
men. The Waterbury Company have opened a
branch in Glasgow at 259, Argyle street, and
those who want a cheap watch, an accurate time-
keeper, and one that will bear a deal of handlirg
with impunby, will find than the money so spent
on the new invention will not be money thrown
away.”
Everybody says the same thing about the Water-
bury, and in almost the same words, and what
everybody says must be true. At any rate it is
true as far as the Waterbary is concerned; bub
whenever yon meet the proprietor of one who is
more than usually enthusiastic about it, you will
be pretty safe in concluding that his ardor is the
ardor of a convert. He went oub of his way for a
long time to abue it, was eventually persuaded
to buy one. and now he has as much to say in its
favour as the ninety and nine who have regulated
all their private and business engagements by the
Waterbury since its first introduction to Austra-
lia. It 3 principle merits may be summed up in a
few words - accuracy, low cost, simplicity. It is
a handsome watch to look at, a splendid watch to
go, and as it only contains 57 parts, all told, it
can be repaired when necessary at a lower cost
than any other watch yet invented, People on
the look-out for something useful for themselves,
or for a valuable present to give their friends,
should think over this opportunity and rot be in
too much of a hurry in making up their minds.
The price of the Waterbury is the same every-
where in the colonies-13a. 6d ; it can be bought
generally from all dea?e-s and storekeepers, or
wholesale from Messrs. T. Willis and Co.; Feld-
helm, Gothelf and Co., and S. Hoffnung and Co.
The address of the Waterbury Watch Repair De-
pot is 56, Margaret-sireet, Sydney.
J 3 REDICTIONS FOR 188 8.
The signs of the times are plain enough for any-
one who chooses to run and read. The advertising
“mediums” and their thumby packs of foul-
smelling cards are no longer necessary.. The
seeker after knowledge has but to keep his eyes
open. At the Anneal Convention of the Photo-
graphers Association of America, held in the Ex-
position Building, Chicago, 111,, in August last,
Judge Bradwell, of the Legal News, in his
address said, amongst ether things “I predict
that it will net be long before in all the pulpit 3 in
the country the camera will ba brought into re-
quisition, and the sermons throughout the laud
will be illustrated with the magic lantern. How
In the world can a minister drive home to the poor
backstding sinner the beauties of salvation aqd
the terrors of damnation better than by Illustra-
tions that he can bring before his congregation
with the magic lantern ? In fact, there is one of
rour ministers - as the press of Sunday last in-
formed us-in one of our suburbs illustrating his
sermons that way, and his church is one of the
most popular. He can hardly take in the money
fast enough when they pass round the hat, and he
illustrates the hymns which are sung, aDd it hßsa
very good effect).” Predictions about the State
House, the proposed change of name for the
colony, the possib'e duration of the Pa-kes
Ministry, and tbelr probable successors have been
repeatedly made during the past few weeks ; but
the one prediction which stands out above all
others, and the one which will inevitably prove
true, is that Clausen’s New York Champagne
Lager B»er will go on increasing its grip on the
Australian people so surely and effectively that
there will shortly be no question about the exis-
tence of any of the unwholesome imitations of
Lager Beer with which the market is periodically
swamped. The genuine Clausen’s Lager can be
ordered from Messrs. Mason Brothers limited,
Fesq and Co , Tooth and Co , Allt and Co., Bur-
rows and Gleeson, Lucas Brothers, R. Butcher
and Co , J- T and J. Toohey and Co., Tidswell,
Wilson, and Co., A Thrmpson and Co., C. Bath
and Co , Cooper, Nathan,and Co., Darrey and Co.,
A R 'wan and Cn., Tnokrr and Co , Ptevia"t and
Co., De Lissa ai d Pot l'l s, and others.
Some airy individual advertises In the
S.M. Herald :
‘ ‘ ANTED, Devil tor Teasing Hair."
“Cheap and reliable second-hand fiend” will be
the next thing we suppose. Or else “ Favour-
able opening for demon with good testimonials.”
“The Revenue was never more abundant or easily collected.” — GOVERNOR LOCH'S SPEECH.
At the breaking-up of a Bathurst (N. S. W.)
Public-school, when a number of giggling girls
came up to receive their rewards from the chair-
man of local school boarJs (Mr. Suttor), that
digriitary giddily declared that he “ wished he
could have kissed the fair performers all at once.”
This gashing confession gives rise to two queries :
What size is Suttor’s mouth ? and why doesn’t he
kiss the girls one by one as an ordinary man has
to do ?
Oamden Times threatens to publish a list
°f all accounts due to it over 12 months. Th
delinquents don’b mind. It is quite the correo
caper to owe money now-a-days in N.S.W. As
Premier Parkes observes: “ Honour does not con-
sist in paying 20 shillings in the pound.”
Archbishop Carr (R.C.) held a Confirma-
tion service at Yea (Vio.), the other day—admis-
sion by Are and ten-shilling tickets. Such of the
faithful as failed to muster the “ five bob ” had to
worry on without the Papal benediction, “ Un-
blessed are the poor.”—Revised Version.


linp>orta,ia.t!
Good New*? to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
TIEEIEj OJSTLTT
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Beg to inform their many patrons and the public
that, as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th j they will sell
CHEAPER THAN EVER!
O
.■v
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. IS/-, 17/6, Si/.
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to *6.
Speciality: Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
* bellows, 27/6.
ti Patent German Silver Reeded Ac-
oordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
I «, B/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 26/-,
30/-, 33/-, 40/-, up to *l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German 35/.
» n steel notes 50/.
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to *2O.
peoialty: Old copy Violin, with case, Bow
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
fcf-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 16/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, SO/-,
up to *l2 12s.
Speciality j Walter Howard Model Niokel Banjo,
60s.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/., 15/-, up to *7 10«.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality | 8-keyed Cocoa Conoert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
by best English maker, for *2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
■'OR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
eom&s mn sums,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 8/-, 8/6,4/-, 4/6,
6/- and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion,
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d,, and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d„ Is,, and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c., &c,
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
//
&
-Ec*em» on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
V/
Scrofula on Neck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
IAISPIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating 3£rup-
XJ tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
iUoathsom Sores, and every species of Itching,
Bcaiy, Pimpiy, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Disease.. of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Jjoss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Bu-oers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application o:
Cuticuba, lire great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with fhree doses of Cuticuba Resolvent
will speediij cure Itching Diseases of the Skin anc
Bcalp, wheL ail other means absolutely fail.
_A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
■icians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, 41 How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
K. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
/IUTICURA RESOLVED , the new Blood Puri-
fl® r i Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Cheat Skin Cere (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds* re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skim
Cntlcura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifies
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, it
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
•}/ '-‘oUS'ts throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Hew
;' • ; 3. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
fi.C. cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
-15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
pel le.
Prepared by tbe
Potter Urng & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
The
‘POTSHOT’
Camera,
IS the Latest Novelty In the Photographic World. It is small, strong, very simple, handsomely got
up, and atrociously effective both on friends and on enemies. Six circular pictures, each about the
size of a crown piece, can be taken on one plate with most astonishing speed and perfect accuracy.
This Camera can be worn under a coat or dress, the lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
observed, and the simple action of pulling a cord hands down to either reverence or ridicule every
incident included within the scope of its vision. The “POTSHOT” Camera is not a toy but a
really serviceable instrument of the class known as “ DETECTIVE ” Cameras. At the same time
an immense amount of fun can be got out of it, and photographs of people and things obtained with
ease which are practically impossible by any other method. A limited number only have been
imported by us, and they are well worth the attention of the general public.
Full particulars can be had, and goods seen, at
LICIITNER AND CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, ' j
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITS' 9
263 to 269 Rent-street,
Sydney,
Mare always In STOCK, for
SALK to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
BARTH B N W A B 3
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE!
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO, 8
Cognac,
.. T, GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva,
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Me 2? U M K X T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailing).
Resigns and Eetimateu forwarded on rams*)
*. CSlffllMMc
k@aehe-bsr*«x, Wtitwakmwam, Btohhs
WK can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and olgars of the best brands. Address i
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Cueena-atreefe, A, OQOFKR, Proprietor,
33EOOHSrQIFHEjjT .T 1 TTnTTnT.
(West Beach),
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA.
THE above beautifully-situated hotel has re-
cently been greatly altered and improved,
and is now ready for the reception of guests.
Situated immediately on the shores of the Bay*
yet it Is within five minutes’ walk of the St.’
Kilda Railway Station, so that visitors, while
enjoying the luxury of a sea-side residence can
within 20 minutes, be in the busy centre of Mel-
bourne. Convenient access has been made to the
extensive promenade on the roof, from which
magnificent views can be obtained of the Bay
and Shipping, Government House and Albert
Park Lake, Mounts Macedon, You Yang and
Dandenong Ranges.
E. A. COOPER, Proprietress.
PERCY GIBBS, Manager.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
TTNSURFASSED accommodation for oommer-
oial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a speoial study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
The scienoe of life.
By W. Knox Parkeb, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages*
bound in cloth, and contains over 100 prescript
Mons. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for tih<n
valuable work. Address i Dootor W, K,
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
Elisabeth Streets, Melbourne. Vie.
EWTON AND LAMB.
rUKJOTURE and PIANOFOKVB
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPR Ng and C’CONNELL STREET
iMimm
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS.
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS al
to match. NEWTON AND LAMB
(ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR
sees:
This chair adjusts Itself to any pos tion, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest, i? We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Prioe, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-.
Packin in canvas, if required 2s. 6d.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably up
holstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &c. NEWTON & LAMB.
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDKSTA
WRITING DESKS, of varl
OHS sizes, fitted with Shelves.
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw*
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ru er and Pen
Backs. Outside Drawers divided into compart*
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg*
Ing or diminishing the space when required. Loci e
automatically. One of the most useful commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
i
IBS
D
RAWING ROOM OA
NETS,
EARLY ENGLISH
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
NEWTON AND LAMB.
stock: 0* PIANOFORTES by the
MOSI CELEBRATED MAKERS.
£
m
AUSTRIAN CHAIR
In
OREAT VARIETY.
And a complete assor j
ment of Bent Wo
Furniture the best make
only.
E A rJnm? A £? 8 £ 2 E p” lo ™’ W*»ary, or Bet.
rooms. Haw designs covered to order lb
any material. NEWTON & LAMS.
S* ravlV?™ ™!? ,™ AIE «« COUCH, m
Kj INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN,
R
OCKmS EASY CHAIRS, aleganfcli?
fnl, a speolalty, NEWTON & LAMB,
JMDSTKAHS, nil ,lß 9t
Nlckol-plabed and JBlaeSs
nnd Bran. S;eab variety,
Bedding,—All descriptions *t
lowest rates.
NEWfQN & LAMB.
BPRIN© MATTKABBB9
Woren Wlro, b B<t
make \ algo, Spiral Sprin-
g from llg, gaols
CHEAP FURNITURE.— Pine Tables, from
13s. M. I Dining Tables, from 20s. , KltX
Uressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. Bd i
Cbesto of Drawers from 40s. j Wardrobes, from
80s.) Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.] Cedar Blis*.
bOMdi, from £3lo*| Clothes Horses, from IBs. M,
Writing Tables, with drawers, from SBa.
EWTON AND LAMP.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING ft O'CONNELL STREETS


A Pathetic Meeting.
NOSEY BOB (to Judge Windeyer): “GLAD TO SEE YOUR HONOR BACK AGAIN. BUSINESS HAS BEEN AWFUL SLACK IN MY LINE SINCE YOUR HONOR WENT AWAY."


MeLBAJf BBO&, BIGG * GO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
m GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, g
M.
O
C
6
IRONMONGERS
x
<p
**/
o
REG?
b
6 s
(SPECIALITIES I
Dull' Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, ilbo Oarbon Light
ELECTROPLATED WAKE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
«AB COOKING STOVBS I—LEQNIB FLETCHER’S, JBANB Sc WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fcO„ ISO,
INSURE YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS!!
BY TAKING
HIKE’S FLUES IMMESII
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifier the System against the Shafts of Disease.
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO X, 3_, O T EES
(Vide Medical Testimonials , Analysis, <fcc», accompanying each bottle)*
TAJKE ONLY KRUSE’S.
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each.
Wholesale Agents, ELLIOTT BROS.. Ltd., Sydney.
' TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
white and sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gums, and delight-
fully fragrant breath can best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powders and acid washe*
and using daily
Odonto
or Pearl Dentifrice, a white powder composed of the most recherche ingredients of the Oriental
warranted free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients ; it whitens and preserve*
M * J ’ ’ a, “‘" ’’ “ r.d l
pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing denar an a mi.
non-gritty tooth powder: such ROWLANDS’ ODONTO,has always proved itself,
neither washes or
and
No other'Odonto is genuine.
ia now sold in a golden colour for
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL
fair and golden-haired people and children.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR beautifies tho complexion, eradicates all cutaneous
defects, and renders the skin soft, smooth and delicate. Au anywhere for ROW l-A vnH*
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and ayoid spurious aud pernicious imitations.
Wholesale and Recall A«eni!B—lti.piuT3 tissue, and it. t RObnaa. & Co., Bydne*.
OOTS
DOTS
T WILAJAMB A GO..
mruwrßKa o*
B*iTJ«a A Fokkisw Boorg A, Bhoj!* ;
BUu MtDDtMiunn 01
Ihi Finns* Qtutrn ow Gtooos in ram *.aavu tiiiraa.
278 aad 412 George~st., iSyduey,
Is'tJ _ .
35iiK
Hot
GENUINE SODA WATER,
TBEI
Sjfkos flratii Watir Ge.,
II OBUROB HILL, BHIMRX,
Perfect Purity Guaranteed,
; PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found in the “LIGHT AND
LiFk," for the speedy oure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of ts»U
book will be sent free, sealed, for six penny
stampß. Address—
B. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-etreet, Sydney,
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branchesi
64 PiTT-STREET, and 538 GEOROE-STREET.
Fald-np Capital ... 481,000,000
Reserve fund ... M ... 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal dtles
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
cial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager,
I WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
QMa
&
V
*
PATEOT
PILLS
&
*8
Are admitted! by thou-
sands to b® worth a
©nines a Bo* for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
i* the stomach, sick
headset®, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dizziness
and drowsiness, cold
chills, flushing® cf heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costive-
aess,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreame.and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, Ac, The first
dose will give relief 'in
tw*®??' Migrates. This is nc fiction, for they hays
ta» • * to thousands of cases. Every aafrerer !ie
seems stir invited to try one box of these Pills, and
sk*T b* acknowledged to be
WORTH. A GUINEA A BOX.
if®? feifit.es of all ages these Pills axe ha iaiuabl* s
M * few dosos of them carry off all gross .rumours,
til obstructions, and bring about al; that jla
No female should be without them. There
G • * medicine to be found to equal BB3! CHAM’S
• S to: removing any obstruction #r irregularity
»t ayst©m. If taken accosding tc the d-Sectidbs
giyea with each box they will soon, restore females of
si; e**#* to sound and robust health.
Co,? * weak, stomach, impaired digsßte-../. and a .
■ • f the liver, they act like “ MAGgO,” and f ,
fo* ,&;•*** will be found to work wonder® vyo'.
wiosi lirepartaut organs of the hum?n machine, '
•r t -i .r 1 -k .. she whole muscular system, restore t£*
-•** ■mro.piexion, bring back the *»»,;. edge of
and'arouse into action with' th- ;? 03EBTJB
i h. the whole physical energy of tot human
•tv v Tr •’-j* are “FACTS ” admitted by thousand®
; .-h&hkg al: classes of nociety; and on* cl tin
** ? ..!■ -fc-isees to the nervous and deb:boated h
■ .tvs Pul* have ts>* largest sale of *»v r atw
' .* c the world.
? UHaM’S MAGIC COUGH WLLb
i.s «. 'iy for Congas in general, Asthma, Dikt-
Kv y to b reathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
Ka<4 pp&zmixm. of the Chest, Wheezing, Its.', thee®
Kilis unrivalled } and any'one labSiaii.g nude- -
aw* yf -the above complaints: need only try One Bos
V : .-re that they are the best ever offited to the
jtst Asthmatic and Cdnsnmntiv* Odugh®
iil; •-isaefes.. and Oppression of the" Chest. They
tiP'W'iy j£. icvethat sense of oppression ana difficulty
:' n-sataing which nightly deprive thepatijot of rest.
•X'l'iT-j: giv® almost instant relief and'csmf •.n’? to thosi
S'WC'k-iid. w®h the above distressing rand, 'when neg>
da&gbrous complaints. Let any iitemou troutslM
*■ \ <w»\ef the above..complaint? gsv*.. Asainuitfs
Cm i f •«. Finns a trial.
v ns' violent Cough will.- k, v gfcarj Cm* be
' ,V ls9s,
■ The public are requests!; to riitibe that
vorda *• Bekchsu’s Pills, Bt. Helens,” t,ri cn’the
£?■ eminent Stamp affixed to each -hex of the phis,
WWjrt.* on they are a forgery. ’
*only and'sold wholesale and retail b~
*&» proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helen*
Lns®ashire, England; .in boxes at lei 1*3., ar4 2s. 9c
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
throughout the Colonies.
H ,P. —Pull directions are given with e#ah bon
Commerce Hotel, Gyrnpie, Queensland,
THE above is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prices
reasonable. Samulu /oom.
Superior acoomm -daiion. Hot and Chid Baths.
Mrs. CO.VLPIGNE, Proprietress.
r ATT'JNSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS,IB7B, CALCUTTA, 1884, x
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
GOLD MEDAL BOUQUET
ESS. BOUQUET
TREVOL
WOOD VIOLET
CHYPRE
and other well known Perfumes are un-
eq nailed t or their dellffhtful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S EAU DE TOkETTE DE LONDRES.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and softening the
skin, and an exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief. An'entirely new article
prepared exclusively by the Inventors.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London'.
►. Trade Mark—'White Rose” on“ Golden ,
Lyre.” A
w
E CAN RECOMMEND
B. IEJTXGrZEISrZEPS
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
i the moat central and well appointed [of any In
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK
french and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address—
-96 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.P.0.),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
Guinness' Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY
BASS’ PALE ALE.
SOLE PURVEYORS b» Ska
C9IANLU AHB UMAX KXllEmMt
LONDON,
By Special Appointment,
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W, BALGHIN. JOHNSTON § CO,,
CtMainiil Cbamberi, B«ad>ilr»«t Sydney,
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE,
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockamptonh
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A TBiy
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows: —6s. per diem, All meals Is. Bd.
E
i
H
8
p
I
1
m
i
R
4
for INfMTS||rINVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now bOing introduced Into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
is every wise mother will certainly
use it.
I>R. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS.
LONDON. EN .. .AND.
GBD.GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BBIAH * PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforoe the Law against
alii persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT St 00.,
231, CLARENOE-STREET.
aBD GBD.
We hare Large Shipments of shis BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand ana Regular Shipmet? ooming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
CHRISTIE’S
QUEENSLAND EMPLOYMENT AUENCY.
GENERAL INFORMATIONJDFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable In-
formation.
79 Elizabeth-street,
BRISBANE.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
FIRST-CLASS TABLE.
Terms Moderate.
MUS6RAYE HOUSE.
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEOFOE STREETS,
BRISBANJ
JOE. BARRi TO TON, Proprietor.
ffi lATIOIAL FEIiIEIT SOU UD iD IPISTMIU SOCIETT,
250 I 3 ITT STREET.
rixed Deposits received at best Current Rates, 6 per cent, being allowed tor moneys at Call
She b«»u>e» al thte boolety ha* (Doreased fourfold in two yean. Shareholder! reoeive 14 per cent, per annum dividend,
JAMES -A-. TODD.


ROYAL
c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds ot cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with rapunlty. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss Sc Co.,
N.S.W.
*r». R.; XjLA.RKIN,
WHLOESALE AND RETAIL,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,]AND DIPORTER.
THE FAMOUS £3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS CONTAINS
3 Bottles Brandy
1 Bottle Jamaica Rum
1 Bottle Port Wine
3 Bottles Whisky
1 Bottle Wolfe's Schnapps
1 Bottle Sherry Wine
7 Bottles Lowndes' Rum
1 Bottle Cld Tom
TOTAL, 18.
Securely Packed and delivered Free to Redfern Station, or any Wharf in the City, on receipt of £3.
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
CORNER OF GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS.
CENTENNIAL SELECT BAR, 780 George-street.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
XTE2W
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
in
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
VENI, VIDI\ no,
BBKUBninßUnnr
For Arristio Posing and Effective T.ightflg*
combining softness and brillianoy, the
Photographs of
GHARLEMGNT ft GO,
ROYAL AROADB,
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY ALONE.
GO THOU AND DO LIKEWISE!
SUMMER, with its heat, dust and depressing
effects, is on ns, and one of the greatest luxuries
we may enjoy [is a delightfully cool and refreshing
bath, made more luxurious by the addition Of a
little “Sea Foam Shampoo." Follow the directions
and you will find It a most beneficial and health"
giving adjunct to the toilet. It will oleanse the
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave them delightfully
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringworm,&c., of the
head, and has the endorsement of the highest
medical authorities. The words “Sea Foam
Shampoo” are registered, and any counterfeit 01
imitation of same will be prosecuted to the full
extent of the law. Sold by all ohemißts and
dealers in toilet articles at the low prioe of one
shilling per packet. Please try one package, Von
will never regret it
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
The above is the only licensed Hense Ib
Rockhampton for holding Theatrical IS
other Entertainments, and oan be engaged Bt
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
Lessee,
The Wonder of the Age.
COLEMAN and Sons, Cootamundra, were
awarded First Prize at the Adelaide Kxhlbi'
tion for their PURE VOLATILE EUCALYPTI
OIL. The only known cure for Asthma and all
affections of the chest. We have more bona-fide
testimonials than any medicine before the publlo.
This is a genuine article. Posted to any address
on receipt of stamps. Prioe, Is. 6d. and 2s. fld.
Agents, Hoffnung & Co.; Elliott Bros. Drug Co.
GRAND BOOKS FOR PRESENTS AND SCHOOL PRIZES.
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR CARDS. ALL THE NOVELTIES OF THE SEASON NOW ON VIEW.
BEAUTIFUL PHOTO. AND SCRAP ALBUMS, WORK BOXES, WRITING CASES, FANS, SCREENS, &o.
MUSlC—Newest Pieces, Songs, Dances, Glees, Christmas Carols, Anthems, Part Music, and Presentation Volumes.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE STREET.
AT.T.AIST A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
frui b o u Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Oopperamlthlng, Blaokamlthlng, Plumbing,
Gaaflttln*, Tank and Girder Building, Kleotrlo and Pneumatic Bell-llttlng, of erery description.
BOULTON'S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WAT2R-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, fco,
MM Agents for Verity Bms.. Patent Afir Prepellers, I Sxkanai kan Cewßs. «aa Vfine, Mentors,
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PUCE,
SYDNEY
Fuxx Pinmmuu ahd Puoi on nnnuniw.
ALFRED LAWRENCE and CO.
130 COLLINS-STREJIT, WEST,
Melbourne.
91 PITT-STRBET,
Sydney.
BRKWBRB and iErated Water Makers Machinery and Appliances. Books on Brewing and Cordial
making. Dr. Griefendorff s Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. Griefendorffs Bohemian Hop Bitters.
Dr. GriefendorfT a Dandelion Bitters. Dr. Griefendorff s Quinine Wine. Utica and Munohen Hop
Bitters. Hop Aroma, Corking Machines, Yeast Presses and other sorts. Lignozote for lining vats
and casks. Boakes Liquid Albumen Wine Finings. Thermometers, Saocharometers, Microscopes.
Ammonia and Ether Ice Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion Ale, Hop Bittors,
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, &c. Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Publishing Office of
BREWERS’ JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WINE AND SPIRIT
TRADE REVIEW."
Also
‘THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY Ql
BEACONSFEEID HOTEl
(CLOSE TO BEACH),
ST. KTLDA, Melbourne
E. A. COOPER,
Proprietress.
P. GIBBS, Manager.
3onvs\siMm&z
dd
S-.V31
SAUC
it
Ki«s2i
In consequence , of Imitations of THE WOR CES TL MS HI ME
SAUCE which an calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label 'tn every boitlt
bears their Signature thus—
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
«&4 UCE f is genuine .
Ask for LEA and FERRINIS’ Struct, and set Name an Wrapper, Label, Betti* and
Stopper £ Wholesale and far Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, &*c.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the Wer*d„
Wholesale Agents : Montefioke Joseph & Co.,: David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
Taylopßr#
MIGHcV (VIUTRfTiVE
Goeoa
MAY BE 08 T ft NEO m LABELLED tins OB PACKETS THBOUBHiOitF?' r*£ COLONY,
NOTICE.
WILL Mrs. K. BRUNTON, late news-agent,
Newcastle, oblige by calling on the ac-
countant at The Bulletin office, if in Sydney.
T 0
JOBBING PRINTERS,
fcO.
To be sold, a large quantity of Old Typo and
Cases, useful for country newspaper. Apply*
“Bulletin” Newspaper Co., Pitt-streefc.
T. F. WIESE YER, 334 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W
ATCHES, Jewellery, Inatrumenta for Ohrlatmaa presents. Watches for ladies, gentlemen, and boya, at all prices. Jewellery, the latest styles and i J, „ A'
at very low prices mdeed (quality being in all cases guaranteed). Opera and Field Glasses, Drawing-room Clocks, Thermometers and Barometers Ti 8 t i , sU J,°
men, Microscopes, Mathematical Instruments in presentation cases, Telescopes, &c. For Boys studiously inclined, similar instruments at moderate DrioeaVak™ ; 3 r°!T gentle-
capital present, and lead their tastes into and keep out bad channels. Buy from the Manufacturer and direct Importer, and save middlemen’s profit old-
established name is sufficient guarantee for quality and good value.
334
Please remeoiber WIESENER’S Steam Factory and Shop—
GBORO-H &TRBBT, 131ST E! IT.
