

fC,O,
Fry's Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, BrisioI, London and Sydney.
“ An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or‘Porter.”— Lancet
The finest Estate yet offered to the Public.
Park
and a-half Miles from the Melbourne General Post Office.
ONE MILE FROM ASCOT YALE STATION.
This superb Estate will be offered in allotments each Week until disposed of.
Magnificent water frontages,
villa sites, mansion sites,
been the theme of constant admiration, and when you remember that C. B. Fisher,
known in racing and squatting circles, spent <£40,000 in improving the land,
you will all rush for Plans and Passes to
Shevill & Go., Auctioneers,
In conjunction with E. SHATTOCK and J. J. RENDLE.
[, SURVEYORS :
Terryj & Oakden J. 8° Jenkins.
SOLICITORS :
.. ,' ’ ; . . .j,;
Messrs. Madden*& Butler.
El t cc
The Bulletin


QM&
mmu***f.
tern»
■Hcmm
tmm^saw-sz-'s&mif
TOBACCO
m
E
UIXSON^SONS
$
o
<a
V
BIR ROGER
H
Excelsior hotel, charters
TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotei Building erected in Above
»;wa, situated corner of Gill and Church Street*,
W. M, GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURBS ALL PAIN
wvTTo b A e T^ k T Q . 0W Sri? m6d y for RHEUMATISM,
internal aches and pains.
PRICE, £ S . HOLD EVERYWHERE.
3, E. MOULTON, Sole Peopbietob,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY,
iT ATKINSON’S %
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
eurpMiea »U other# for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Tm#*; Gctß Mjspau-
PAMS,IB7B; CALCUTTA, 1891,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
areo?rare2s'^cullar?rl'®®S^lndbelng
registered can be obtained only of the
Inyentors or their Agents,
_ ATKINSON'S
odonr. it far surpasses the numerous com-
pounds sold under the same name
kerchief, distilled from the Choicest exotics,
0/ «H Vtaltrt, and ofjht ManufacUirtrt-
J. * B. ATKINSON?
34, Out Bond Stxsxt, Lombok.
Trade Mark—‘‘-Whit* Rose ”on “ Golden^
MTiEAN BROS., RIGG, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
&
O
* m
m
r Uf|v) * '
IRONMONGERS
■
2
m
m
<</
■
m
%
m
m
. » V.«\ _ .
llaMia* Sewing Machine, Itsbestos Fvre-proot Paint, Who Carbon U&ht, \
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOTHS, ' '
OAB COOKING STOVES :—EEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, fee., &o.
INSURE YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS! I
BY TAKIN8
FLUID UM0
C* Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Plow of the Se<* e
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease-
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHB^ S
fVids Mtdica! Testimonials, Analysis, <tc,, accompanying tack bottle >.
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’g'
Sold in Bottles at Is, 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each.
—JO |
Wholesale Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS
fctd'
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Subscribe Capital
raid-up Capital ..
Total Income Cast Half Tear
-H : }*-
£549,151
£949,554
£809,534
Sspsr'ts Ilf, ut a-M per Sent, for Twelve Month.
''SAWS’ BANK BRANCH.
wh, vX;. X'<Vtiu.m.Lu iU ’ hy ,nm ’ ~f uncertain Amount, and
iassfss^x^tg&^jsges: h »
AKFLS FOPS foe Boirawers. JEgfj LISESAL
Pis
J.. u
% i JMJ
£~~' :■
till
„ T ; 1
premier
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
64 COLLINS STREET E^ T '
£25 Contributing Share 9
OAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment <>f ?
Shaie Entrance I ee, and the Payments upon these Shai eS
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound^
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders 1
Ihe holders of the First Issue of these Shares received in ®
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contrih ute
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years. **
lion. JOH.v .'ViM ho, m i*., 7 “iSatrni*' 1 '
JAMES MtIt.VMS, M.l*., j.p., " ‘‘ tiecreta r, ‘
m
p£y&*
m
Ml
KMiflSe.
Jr 1 ,ft * rf j
**■
- THE ' ~~ ~~ —-
Federal Coffee PalaC#
. •« ' f ; CORNER OF
Collins Streets, IL£@lToo-u-ras-®’
°" nt “* 890 ROOHS : “ replete , itl , every oonvemeoce for the comfort of Vigors.
PRIVATE SUITES of BQOasg, Magnificently Furnished. ,
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine <*d &
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE, PUBLIC DINING HALL 0N GROUND FLoo^>
With excellent Hfp.nit awm. u* r . , ...
With excellent Me„u, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging slaih
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROD-
—— HOT, COLD ami SLOWER BATHS.
NKxTir T OR ALW Alb IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REPLIED ' r °'
fceerge Soften - ISMan#o^


The Bulletin
m 9—Ho. 460.
SATURDAY, DPX/EMBER 8, 1888.
Price, Bd,
Bishop Field Flowers Goe.


NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
Sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
san have Ti e Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
sity The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
lie National Australian Newspaper,
li Australia for the Australians."
LftaBlSTQRg ! BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. c
HjIMITSTOc
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
war IS Fitt-strekt, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER®
(payable in advance, only).
Annum ... ... ... ® d
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
U be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
< Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Perse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
■length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
WSMnunieations will be regarded as strictly confidential.
ic The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
SM address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
■desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
qfsvfih MSS.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1888.
THE
CHRISTMAS “BULLETIN.”
NOTICE TO OUR AGENTS.
Wc shall be glad to at once receive orders
for the Christmas Number of “ THE
BULLETINwhich will consist of a much
larger edition than that published by any
other weekly paper in Australasia, replete with
attractive matter and including a supplement
in Jive colours by Phil May. This supple-
ment, which is entitled “ JUMPS AND
JIM-JAMS, A TEMPERANCE SER-
MON," will be one of the most humorous and
original drawings ever issued in this country ,
and will certainly 'attain an. enormous and
permanent popularity. The stories and verse
published in the number will be of exceptional
interest.
To ensure full supply, early appli-
cation is absolutely necessary.
NOTICE TO ADVERTISERS.
To prevent disappointment, intending ad-
vertisers should now secure positions, as the
limited space available in this Special
Number is rapidly filling up.
The Two Doctors.
Even the ablest men, when they venture to
express views on subjects with which they
happen to be but superficially acquainted,
are apt to indulge in opinions more or less
provocative of mirth. There was a time
when Dr. Johnson enjoyed a position unique
and, it might be added, undeserved, in
English letters. The result was that many
simple people sought for and obtained an
expression of his thoughts on various sub-
jects, with the result that in Boswell’s book
--a volume referred to by numbers but read
by few—the old lexicographer is made to say
some majestically stupid things on a wide
range of subjects from Bishop Berkeley’s
philosophy to the struggles of the Americans
against the insensate policy of George 111.
Human life is so short and the time neces-
sary to master any branch of knowledge so
long, that the more eminent a person is in
any department the less likely are his
opinions to be of value on some totally
different subject. That Mr. Edison or the
late Charles Darwin could throw much
light on a disputed passage in a Greek
tragedy is : s improbable as’that the late Dr.
Bad ham could have materially added to the
world’s knowledge of experimental science or
of biology. Fortunately for humanity most
men of real eminence are wise enough to
avoid promulgating their ill digested concep-
tions of things foreign to their studies or
their professions. It sometimes happens,
however, that persons who cannot fairly
claim real eminence in any pursuit dash
gaily in where others fear to tread. The
result might have teen anticipated. Just as
“a universal roar of laughter from Peters-
burg to Lisbon reminding the Vatican
that the age of crusades was over ” fol-
lowed close on the absurd antics of
Clement XIII. in the cause of Maria
Theresa, so, when Australian popes and
scientists choose to publicly promulgate
views at variance with the elementary canons
of common-sense, It is the journalist’s duty
to oppose those views and show their incor-
rectness. We refer to the opinions given to
the world by Drs. Knaggs and Jeeferis, ex-
perts respectively in physic and in divinity,
and published some days ago in the Sydney
daily journals.
• » ©
In accordance with our customary regard
for the church we begin with Dr. Jeeferis.
In a late discourse entitled “ The Sorrows of
Wealth,” and partaking of the dual character
of a lecture and a sermon, the reverend
speaker expressed convictions foil of novelty
on a subject which has baffled many genera-
tions of thinkers. At the very outset he
was frank enough to admit that many young
men on learning the title of the exordium
would “indulge in a sarcastic smile at his
expense.” Whether they did so or not is
uncertain. But, had the address been en-
titled “ The Sorrows of Poverty,” it is far
from improbable that his hearers would
prefer to listen to their pastor on tome sub-
ject with which he might fairly claim to be
acquainted. Of a truth the world can show
but one thing more grotesque —one thing
that more clearly illustrates the piquancy of
priestly humour when at Its best—than a
parson with a large stipend preaching on the
drawbacks attending liberal salaries : it is
when he discourses on the misery of being a
pauper —a subject with which, as already
stated, he must almost necessarily ba un-
acquainted. A third and very common case
may suggest itself to some a 3 approach-
ing, perhaps equallirg, the prect cling
examples in sacerdotal drollery. This
is when a dainty ecclesiastic trips from
his carriage to the church to dwell for
an hour on the advantages of poverty and
the ingratitude of these who are up to their
necks in it without evincing any but the
most lukewarm thankfulness.- Examples of
this kind are by no means rare in either
Britain or Australia. Id Is impossible to
witness them without pondering on the in-
exhaustible reservoir of humour embraced
by the Church, and lamenting that talent of
such promise, instead of finding congenial
and profitable vent in the sawdusted circus-
arena, should be confined to the narrow
limits of the pulpit, the Sunday-school and
the Dorcas Society.
* * *
It is time to return to Dr. Jeffer-is.
We quote: —“Of nations the richest was
that where there were fewest poor —where
few were vastly rich and where the many
had a competence. The great increase in
wealth waß confined to the Christian nations
and almost solely to the Protestant nations
America, England, Germany and Austra-
lia. If a man was not born to the use of
money ho would use it to his sorrow. A
man who loved riches was loaded, and until
he was unloaded he could not enter through
the ‘eye of the needle.’ Therefore, let
young men work more for the love of work
than for the love of money." Such, among
many others of a similar tendency, are the
words attributed to the Congregational
shepherd by the Sydney Morning Herald,
a journal which would not willingly mis-
represent him. Let us examine them. If
the richest nation is that containing the
fewest poor in proportion to population, it is
probable that England heads the list of
poverty-stricken lanes. More than three
oub of every hundred of her people depend
altogether on public charity, while a large
percentage of the remainder pass from
the cradle to the grave on the confines of
soul-destroying want. In the face of such
indisputable facts facts well-known to
those who have lived in large British towns
or read the recent revelations concerning the
London poor—it is surely little short of
mockery to ba told that the richest nation
had fewest paupers, and, in the same breath,
that “ the great increase of wealth was con-
fined almost solely to the Protestant nations. ”
For widely-diffused well-being neither Pro-
testant Germany nor Protestant England
will compare with Catholic France. . It will
be remembered, too, that 17 years ago, when
an indemnity of £2oo,ooo,ooo—an indemnity
beside which all previous national robberies
were insignificant—was demanded of the
latter country by a victorious and merciless
foe, French peasants subscribed five times
the amount, or the enormous sum of
£1,000,000,000, to meet it. Could German
peasants have done the same ? As for
Hodge, the prospect of his raising a billion
of money borders on ihe ludicrous. The
foreign army that at any time during the cen-
tury declined to leave the neighbourhood of
London till English clod-hoppers were able
to subscribe a sum equal to that subscribed
by the French of 1871 would still be quar-
tered in the vicinity of Hyde Park and
Clapham Common.
Take again Catholic Spain, Italy, or Aus-
tria. In each of these countries the aggre-
gate wealth probably falls below that of
Germany—although the latter is far from
being a- rich nation—and is certainly much
less than Britain’s. But if freedom [from
actual hunger on the part of the' great bulk
of the people is to be the standard of wealth,
then all three are probably more prosperous
than Germany and certainly more so than
England. But one of the most whimsical
portions of our preacher’s discourse is where
he points oub the miseries of wealth, and
then rejoices to think that the Protestant
lands were leaving the Catholic ones nowhere
in the race for it. Should such be the case,
it is obviously to be deplored, rather than
welcomed, from a Christian standpoint. For
the whole system of Christianity is based
upon poverty, self-abnegation, and suffering.
So far, however, has the Christianity of the
Nineteenth Century diverged, both in pre-
cept and practice, from that of the First, that
if the Great Teacher and His apostles were
to-day to appear by the waters of Sydney
Cove as once by the waters of Galilee they
would quickly find themselves In custody,
charged with a combination of vagrancy and
blasphemy. But we must proceed in our
examination of this remarkable discourse.
Around us by the thousand are men of means
who were certainly “ not born to the use of
money.” Indeed, the vast majority of well-
bo-do colonists or their fathers commenced
life on exceedingly slender resources. So
far, however, from using the gradually ac-
quired wealth “ to their sorrow,” they have
mostly provided themselves with good
houses, good cooks, and the many necessaries
that go to make life tolerable. Nor, so far
at least as a casual observer can discover, do
they evince the least doubt of their ability
to enter and slip through “the eye of the
needle ” when the time comes to make the
attempt. The doctor’s desire that young
men should exert themselves “ more for the
love of work than for the love of money ”
might well be taken to hearb by old as well
as young—by those who watch and pray, as
well as by the less fortunate ones who saw
wood, plough fields, and wheel bricks. One
thing is certain. If old and young would
only become so infatuated with work as to
consider pay an entirely superfluous contin-
gency, the vexed question of the unemployed
would stand a fair chance of solution.
* * *
It was at a medical picnic held ostensibly
to celebrate the colony’s centenary that Dr.
Knaggs untied some knotty problems con-
nected with subjects outside therapeutics.
With a doctors’ picnic in November and the
certainty of an undertakers’ merry-making
to follow in December, it is little wonder
that the public mind is somewhat agitated as
to the possible disasters that such rejoicings
forebode. If both happened to have been
held on the same day, and if, by some un-
fortunate accident, the steamers containing
the allied professions chanced to collide, the
effect upon the vital statistics of the city and
suburbs would no doubt be watched with
keen interest. It may be mentioned in pass-
ing that when the toast of the medical pro-
fession was proposed at the recent outing,
the band in attendance, with a fine insight
into the fitness of things, struck up the
“ Dead March.” But it waß when proposing
the health of the New South Wales Parlia-
ment that Dr. Knaggs showed his acquain-
tance with subjects beyond the conventional
boundaries of his calling. He said : “ Like
small pox:, Socialism and Radicalism were
dangerous and infecti ms and were opposed
to the well-being of large numbers of the
members of the community. . . Paralysis
or waste of the muscles could be compared
to trades-unionism which thrived upon the
muscles of the working man. Wasting
disease, of a truth, was like the ogre Pro-
tection.”
* * *
In one sense there is little doubt.that both
Radicalism and its corollary Socialiim are
both infectioui and dangerous. Doubtless,
too, they are opposed to the comfort and
well-being of a fairly numerous class. They
are infectious inasmuch as no person ordi-
narily endowed, no one gifted with intelli-
gence a little beyond that of the average
Hottentot, can probe and examine them
without becoming infected with the whole-
some truths they contain. It is through the
growth of Radicalism that what has for ages
been facetiously known as “British free-
dom ” in the past bids fair to become a reality
in the immediate future. It is through this
growth that England is gradually disencum-
bering herself from the political and social
fetters imposed on her by generations of
fools, satyrs, trulls and bastards who have
waxed fat on her during the long period
since William arrived at Hastings with the
scum of Western Europe at his heels
to the day, well within the memory of
elderly men now living, when, according
to Greville, another William “ always con-
tinued to be something of a blackguard and
something more of a buffoon.” So rapid in-
deed has the infant Radicalism grown, so
vigorous has he become, and so closely his
younger brother Socialism follows in his
footsteps that to many the time seems at
hand when those who wiil not work will not
be suffered to eat —when men will be prized,
nokfor their uselessness, but for their capacity
to do something. It is in this sense that
Dr. Knaggs was correct when he alluded to
the dangers contained in the growth of the
principles mentioned. Just as the banded
despots of Europe knew that their dvys
would be numbered if the principles of the
Revolution crossed the French boundaries,
so those who meanly and complacently live
upon the labours of others very natarally
rail at the approach of an era when they will
have to work or starve.
* * •
Dr. Knaggs thinks trades-unionism and
paralysis to be convertible terms —wasting
disease to be synonymous with Protection.
Only those acquainted with the abject condi-
tion of the British workman before the rise
of trades unioLiem are competent to estimate
the good it has done. While readily admit-
ting that a period may arise both in a nation’s
history and in the world’s history when Free-
trade may be the wisest policy, we flatly
deny (a) that the acceptance of Cobden’s
.teachings did to much for the British
workman as the founding of trades
unions ; (b) that in the present stage of
the world’s civilisation—advancing in some
lands, stationary in others, while receding
in a few—unrestricted commerce would be
advantageous to the more advanced races or
high tariffs a drawback. It is over 40 years
since, in the Covent Garden Theatre,
London, a vast audience was assured that:
“ Workhouses in ruins would record the
break-up of Protection in the same way that
castles in ruins recal the downfall of
feudalism.’ Close on half-a-century has
gone by, and to-day, in England, famishing
paupers clamour for fresh workhouses, while
artisans and agriculturists, well on the way
to pauperism, clamour for trade that is fair
to them, not free to destroy them. While
advising Dr. Knaggs to let economics alone
and stick to physic, we shall end by quoting
for his information a couple of sentences
from the work of a great living Socialist :
“ That Freetrade is beneficial to the whole
community when exchange is controlled by
the producers no man would, I should hope,
contest. But Capitalist Freetrade means
simply commercial war carried on at the
direct expanse of the producing class for the
benefit of the capitalist class.”
Parlies, Prosperity, and the Parched West.
Parkes says New South Wales is prosperous and
his Treasurer backs up the statement. All the
rank-and-file of their subservient following echo
the story. Pulseokd, W ise, and Co. repeat it,
and the Sydney dailies print it and send it broad-
cast over the colonies. One searches for that
prosperity everywhere, but fails to find it, and
nowhere is it more conspicuously absent than in
the West. It is thence that New South Wales
derives her means of living. On it depends the
huge city of Sydney. In what state is the bound-
less Western country to which New South Wales
has to look for everything ? Let us set down a
few facts and then make further investigations.
• * •
Sixteen days ago 10,000 sheep were sold at a small
town in the central district at lOd. per head,
and a day later some 8000 or 9000 more at a shil-
ling apiece, whilst at another place still in the
central district a larger mob than either of these
was sold for sd. ier head. In the Western dis-
trict towards Bourke anyone who likes can have
most of the remaining stock for taking it away.
Lower down the Darling the squatters are cutting
the throats of the sheep rather than see them
starve to death. The bodies of these wretched
animals are so wasted away that they are neither
worth skinning nor boiling down, and their bodies
are left on the plains tofeed the crows and dingoes.
Near the tanks, or where any water happens still
to be, the stench is sickening. The exhausted
sheep rush the water, drink their fill, and then
carry away in their fleeces twice or three times as
much water as they drink. They simply lie down
in their weakness and cannot get up again; then
the crows settle on them and pick their eyes out.
Parkes’ prosperity !
* •
Some stations may have men stationed at the
tanks and along the watercourses—where any of
these still boasb any water—to pull out the sheep
that flounder in the mud but are too weak to get
out again. But most of the stations have made
no such provision, and so thousands upon thou-
sands of sheep may be seen at such places heaped
one on the top of the other, a huge collection of
festering carcases, gradually being devoured by
the birds of prey that flock to this plentiful
meal. The mortgagees of the stations have ordered
every expense to be cut down—not a sixpence to
be expended, so that, however willing the squatter
may be to do his best, his supplies being cut off at
the base he can only wait and do nothing. West
of Wilcannia and east of it towards Cobar and
south along the back country, stations are aban-
doned right and left. There is scarcely one station
in that neighbourhood that has a lamb left of this
year’s dropping—all the old gummies are dead and
all that remain are a few of the youngest and
strongest sheep. Some of these stations which
hoped to clip large numbers of sheep could not
muster one-third of those on their books, and those
that were clipped have not yielded half the weight
of wool that was expected. In some cases the
sheep could nob be driven to the woolsheds at all
—the shearers had to go round to the paddocks
and clip them there, collecting the fleeces in drays
and carting in to the woolsheds. Parkes’ pros-
perity !
• * •
The horses of the boundary-riders cannot be fed
on anything grown on the stations; oats, maize,
chaff and hay have to be purchased and carried
several hundred miles to feed the working horses
on the runs. These are, of course, limited to as
few as possible, only those absolutely in daily use
being so fed. The other spare horses are now re-
duced to mere advertisements for bone-mills and
have, in many instances, to be shot out of sheer
pity and to save tucker for the others. The
fodder thus required to be purchased is, so far as
it could be supplied locally, long since exhausted.
All that New South Wales could supply is already
eaten, and orders have now to be sent to New
Zealand, Tasmania, and Victoria to feed the
Western squatters’ working horses. Parkes’
prosperity !
# •
To cart his wool to the nearest railway-station
the squatter has to deal with the carriers. These
men have teams of their own, and they take the
wool to the railway and bring back whatever
there may be in the shape of back-loading. The
devastated state of the country affects them just
in the same way as it affects the squatter. Th.ey
cannot depend for an ounce of indigenous food for
their teams on the road and so have to carry large


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite custom house).
Directors:
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chairman.
E. C. V. BROUGHTON, Esq. ; T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual banking
business.
Interest on Deposits :
12 months ... 7 per cent.
a H
T. 8. KlchardMv . - Man»(ln« Director.
quantities of horse-feed and consequently smaller
loads of produce. This raises the price of carriage
to the squatter and adds more and more to his
difficulties. If there be no water in the Govern-
ment tanks along the road he would have to
travel, he has to refuse bo do any carrying what-
ever, the wool has to remain on the station, or the
sheep have to go unshorn This has happened on
several routes that have been brought under our
notice, and simply means utter ruin. In the face
of these things it need not be wondered at that
the carriers have raised the rates of carriage all
round, or have, as in many instances that we know,
refused to carry at all under existing circum-
stances. Parkes’ prosperity!
e * *
The storekeepers, publicans, and the hundred
and one tradesmen who therefore had depended
on fruitful seasons' and the accustomed returns
from station produce are now driven to all sorts of
devices to get in money wherewith to meet their
merchants’ bills. With all the avenues of their
trade incomes either diminished or utterly cut off,
they will very shortly, if they have notalriady
done so, have to seek renewals and re-renewals of
their bills from the merchants, they will have to
cub down their own expenses and so throw
numerous helpless store hands out of employment.
The march will then be commenced for Sydney,
where they will add their numbers to the legions
of the unemployed and further illustrate Parkes’
prosperity.
# • •
With such a state of things existing let us ask
if any remedial measures have been taken, or even
contemplated—and if so what these are. A water-
famine exists out over all the West. Whatever
little rain they may have had has done no per-
manent good. How is the Government dealing
with these squatters ? What is their position '!
In the sense in which squatters may be regarded
as bona-fide settlers—we can simply say that they
in reality do not exist. They are mere bailees of
the funds of banks and mortgage companies—and
although fchejy appear as owners they are only so
in name. The whole thing is a huge fabrication
erected on foreign capital—the proceeds of all of
which go first to pay interest to these moneyed in-
stitutions. These institutions are strong, and the
Government, afraid to quarrel with the money in-
terest, simply legislate as those interests demand,
without the slightest regard to the population of
the colony.
New South Wales had a Water Commission on
which a large amount of money was expended, and
it gathered much and very useful information.
Its report seems to have been pigeon-holed and all
its recommendations and suggestions—involving
as they do the lives of tens of thousands of the
population—seem to be as naught compared with
successful Government ventures in Circular Quay
frontages, in properties at Parramatta, and a
proper application of the charitable works that
the unemployed may be got to do at Hornsby.
New South Wales has half a hundred Neros
fiddling away in Macquarie street whilst three-
fourths of the colony is being scorched out of ex-
istence.
* * •
We have no sympathy with the bogus or bailiff-
squatter who is merely utilising the funds of some
monetary institution that he may pay interest to
its foreign shareholders, but we do give o' ll,
heartiest interest bo that man who, whether he be
squatter or selector, risks his own money on some
of the Western grass. For him, who has sunk his
all—who has done so on the faith of Government
guarantees and all the vapid promises that the
usual run of Governments usually do give, we give
something more than sympathy—he has our
sinceresb pity. He has a remorseless vampire at
his throat in the shape of an indifferent landlord—
a cruel taskmaster.
. t •
The drought is upon the land. Parkes, on
many of whose supporters there is also a drought,
has known this, or ought to have known it, for
many months past, and his was the duty to set
about taking remedial measures and to stretch
forth the hand of true statesman-ship into the
far-away West Is it a sign of prosperity that
Parkes, Burns, and Co., the leading members
of which political firm have been in office for
years and years, can emptily boast that New
South Wales has so many more millions of
sheep now than it had 10 years ag<D, when all the
time no provision is made for the increase in im-
proved pasturage and augmented water supply t
It is an insult to human intelligence that all this
balderdash should pass current on the strength of
what our Sciolisbic politicians put forth, backed
up as they are by a senile Press, subsisting on the
advertisement 3 of the agents of foreign shoddy.
The Howl of the Brisbane “Telegeaph."
The Brisbane Telegraph is conspicuous as one of
the very few Queensland papers which have dared
to advocate the Impeual aspect of the Blake
oaae Like all p.rion conducted journals,
the Telegraph gives its vote for the superstitions
of the buried ages, and its voice is raised in holy
horror as it seei the old fetiches being capsized,
one ofter another, from their pedestals. The
parscn-conducted journal alwajs lives m the past
It upholds the lying traditions of the State be ■
cause its leaden litterateurs have lived all t heir live n
on the dying traditions of the Church, and it
knows that the people must be taught to receive
the whole mass of venerable drivel—social, politi-
-1 Ind religious —with unquestioning belief, lest
they should learn instead to reject it all, and
leave priests and placemen to earn their humble
crust P by wheeling stones The old sophis-
tries hang together and shore eich other up ;
the dogmatist who lives upon the ridiculous fable
S the S serpent and the fall of man supports the
other dogmatist who preaches the divine right of
monarchsOeat they should collapse together ; »d
thus the priest and the moral journal in which he
utters his opinions are always four <1 lagging
wearily at the tail-end of the car.v .f human
progress. That the Brisbane Telegraph recog-
nises these things is hardly probable-the parscni-
calToumal seldom recognises anything distinctly
under any circumstances whatever; but its in-
stincts tend to keep it moving on all fours among
the wreckage of old-time follies and superstitions,
andTt obey! them blindly, and protests m grief
aSd indignation whenever the world shows a ten-
dency to move.
On the subject of Sir Henry Blake's appoint-
ment the Telegraph therefore raises its voice on
high and weeps. . , ,
Fnzland has given us a fine country, a broad extent of
territory permits us to live here as we like and to govern
territory, p .. does not tax us except in one
asks us to pay the paltry salary that keeps her
revrds’entative fcere.”
The earth is England’s and the fulness thereof.
Therefore England gave us a continent which she
did not own and which she could not hold if she
had owned it, and has permitted us to live there
ever since. _ Without her condescending charity,
however, we would not be authorised to live there,
and, in fact, it is questionable if we would have
any right to live at all. Man, if he lives, must
own some spot of ground to live on ; every inch of
earth on the face of the globe has some ostensible
owner, whose permission, according to the Tele-
graph’s theory, must be obtained before anyone
else can tread his little patch of dust; and if the
owners of the earth unanimously decide to refuse
their sanction to three million Australians, who
don’t own anything, to intrude on the earth’s sur-
face, then the only resource of the Australian race
is a universal act of suicide. For the Australian
nation, in the sbrabismussed eye of the Tele-
graph, is in the unhappy position of having no
human rights of its own; through the long cen-
turies of the future it must go on living by permis-
sion of England, and when England withdraws
that permission, and re-claims the land she has so
generously “given” in the past, the Australian
nation must fill itself up with “Rough on Rats ”
or retire down a steep place into the sea.
* * *
Australia, therefore, “ belongs ” to England,
and must be humble as becomes her station. But
“England,” after all, is only a small patch of
inanimate earth which can own nothing, so the
term really applies to the English race —some
30 millions or so of human beings, most of them
no larger than the average human being whom
one meets anywhere else. Every ten of these,
consequently, own among them one Australian,
and some day when this syndicate is hard-up it
may resolve to realise on the colonist in question
and sell out to a Chinaman. On the same prin-
ciple the soil of Australia belongs to the same
English nation, so that each Englishman uncon-
sciously owns some 64 acres of Australian earth,
with buildings, fences, and other improvements
thrown in, and when he is tired of owning it he
will foreclose on the lot and have a glorious bust
with the proceeds. The conclusion may seem a
startling one, but it is logical and unavoidable.
How England ever came to own Australia is a .
point which the Telegraph judiciously leaves out
of sight. It was certainly not given to her by the
previous owners, so the conclusion is unavoidable
that she embezzled it from the dark-skinned pro-
prietary and left them in the lurch. Some day
the Australians will probably embezzle their
own land in the same way, and so the stolen pro-
perty will be passed on.
* ® •
Possibly even the abject Telegraph may one
day realise that ownership is mostly based on the
right of the strongest. England was herself
owned by various masters in her earlier
days, but instead of grovelling in print about
the duty which she owed to her proprietors
she did her utmost to shake them off—though
with indifferent success. She was also given
away by various potentates—notably by one
Pope to the French and by another to the Spaniards
—and she grew excited over these acts of tiansfer
and refused to recognise them-and rose in frenzied
insurrection. Then came a period when the be-
loved mother-land began to own other nations
who all objected to the process and were denounced
as “rebels’’for so doing, and through all these
vicissitudes the grand old British race adhered
steadily to one definite maxim—that they bad a
just right to own everything and everybody, and
that nobody had any light to own them.
Most of the world is travelling on the same theory,
but the world of the Brisbane Telegraph is
centred in London, and it recognises nothing
beyond its own little circle of abasement. But,
despite the miserable obsequiousness of the
journal which thus seeks to run the universe,
Australia will shortly decide to own itself, in
theory as well as in fact, and then when in the
course of years the continent begins to overflow
with a superabundant population the Australian
nation will want to own other countries and other
nations in its turn, and the Australian press will
wail over the ingratitude of these nations when
they object to the proprietorship, just as the
Roman journalists of old —had there been
any journalists in those days —would have
wailed in their organs—if organs had been
then invented—about the cussedness of our ancient
British ancestors when the Oaisars took possession
of their land. Even England itself may be owned
some day by Australia, when the centre of popu-
lation has shifted and the English race is over-
shadowed by the teeming millions of New South
Wales and Queensland and Victoria, and a thou-
sand years hence another parson-ridden Tele-
graph may raise its voice in London to point out
to its readers that Australia has graciously allowed
them to exist there, and that it is therefore their
duty to be humble and submissive, and to raise no
objections when they are called upon to pay the
salary of the Cornstalk governor who is sent over
to yawn in their theatres, and to graciously hang
their criminals, and otherwise to keep them in the
way they should go. For history keeps on for
ever repeating itself in a weary round of madden-
ing monotony, and toadyism is immortal, and the
spirit of human drivel endureth for ever.
Concerning two Imprisoned Journalists.
The case of two men, now in confinement in
Darlinghurst Gaol, illustrates in a forcible manner
the blind vindictiveness of one of the many
savagely senseless enactments that cumber the
Statute Book of NewFkuth Wales. The men re-
ferred to are Mr. J. A. O Neill, late proprietor
and editor of the Queanbeyan Times, and Mr.
Hilder, late proprietor and editor of the Kemr-
sey Argus. These men, in the course of their
business as journalists, were found to have
offended against the law of libel, and, as punish-
ment for the offence, they were not alone despoiled
of all their worldly goods but refused the refuge of
the Insolvency Act until they shall have spent 12
months within gaol walls. It is this latter part of
their punishment we characterise as savagely sense-
less. Both men are financially ruined. In O’Neill's
case the damages were set down at £4OO, and to
liquidate damages and costs his printing plant and
whatever other property he possessed went under
the hammer, the net result of the sale being £245.
For the balance he was arrested and sent to the
debtors’ prison at Darlinghurst, and unless some
change can be made in the law he will have to
stay there for twelve months. He has a wife and
a large family of young children, and these will
have to go on as best they can until the law is
satisfied. Hilder’s case is practically the same.
We raise no question as to the justice of the ver-
dicts. We do not concern ourselves with the
subject-matter of the libels at all. Our interest in
the men begins at that stage at which the law
shows itself to be a disgrace, a tyranny and a
crime.
• * *
The law admits that the offence of ordinary
libel may be atoned for by the payment of a sum
of money. Had O’Neill ar.d Tlttper bpen a few
hundred pounds richer, or had the market for
their effects been brisker, they would have been
able to satisfy the law and would be to-day earn-
ing a support for their families. The charges
against them, whether damages or costs, repre-
sented, therefore, a certain indebtedness, to the
State, or to tho3e whom the State had taken
under its protection, and this indebtedness consti-
tuted the State a creditor on the one hand and
the libellers debtors on the other. Absolutely,
and under all aspects that are fair, this is the re-
lationship that arose as soon as the juries gave in
their verdicts. But to be a debtor is not, neces-
sarily, to be a criminal. Once debt was crime.
The Law of the Twelve Tables gave the person of
the debtor into the hands of the creditor. When
slavery was in vogue the same practice existed.
On the abolition of slavery, however, civilised
countries withdrew from the creditor all power
against the pirson of the debtor and left only a
right against his goods. Certain decrees which,
under English law, creditors may still call for, and
which seem to operate against the person of the
debtor, are in reality only forms of pres-
sure to make the debtor put forth his best
powers to discharge his debt When inability
to pay a debt really exists, the Insolvency Act
may be availed of, and the persecuting hand of
the most rapacious creditor be forthwith stayed.
This is in thorough accord with right reason and
the necessities of civilised society. Fourteen years
ago an Act abolishing imprisonment for debt was
passed by the New South Wales Legislature, but
in the Act was inserted a provision which renders
it for twelve months useless to anyone convicted
under the Defamation Act passed before the
days of Responsible government. Hence a man
who is able to meet the damages assessed for
a libel published by him, but is unable to meet
the costs or fails in meeting even a fraction of
them, may be consigned to gaol for 12 months.
At the end of that time he will be permitted
to avail himself of the benefit of the Insolvency
Act to the extent of leaving gaol though not to
the extent of freeing himself from civil liability to
bis judgment-creditor, but it is plain that in the
interval, during which his creditor gains nothing
but the satisfaction of wreaking vengeanpe, his
household may be broken up, his health damaged,
and his prospects ruined.
% X *
The reason for inserting this provision in the
Act of 14 years ago is easy to see and as easy
to prove insufficient. It is true that a news-
paper man, finding himself on the brink of insol-
vency, might reckon up all the persons against
whom he had a grudge, and libel the whole of them
in his last issue. He might think it as well to be
hanged for a sheep as for a lamb—as well to go
through the court for debts ordinarily contracted,
plus damages and costs in a score of libel actions, as
for ordinary debts alone. It is quite possible to
conceive that men with such minds exist. But it
is impossible to conceive that they are numerous
enough to justify legislation against all newspaper
men. This point must be pressed home It is bad
lawmaking which provides for a whcla class of
cases a punishment suitable for a hypothetical
individual under that class. No legislator has
said, or can say, that the libels which from time to
time occupy the courts in New South Wales
originate in prospects of insolvency. Evidence to
the contrary is abundant and conclusive. But
if there were a doubt about this evidence, then the
onus of proof that the libeller was on the brink of
insolvency should rest on the prosecutor or on the
Crown. Proof on this head would bs forthcoming
in the ordinary steps taken to realise on the
libeller’s goods. What we say, theD, is that a
newspaper man, cast in damages and costs on
account of having published libellous matter,
should be at libsrty to surrender his estate, and
should occupy the position of an ordinary insol-
vent, unless on a further motion of the court an
offence, aggravating that of libel, were proved
against him.
* * *
In the cases of O’Neill and Hilder there is no
allegation that their confinement in Darlinghurst
is owing to anything beyond the fact of their
being too poor to meet the whole of the expenses
which thei r conviction involved. They are debtors,
pure and simple. Their creditors will not make
one penny out of their twelve months’ imprison-
ment. Tee men themselves will suffer in mind
and body. Their families will suffer in many
ways, and no one can tell with what ultimate re-
sults. In the eyes of all impartial and thoughtful
people respect for the law will also suffer. What
sense, then, is there in excluding them from the
benefit of the rights conferred by an advancing
civilisation on all other classes of debtors ? The
libel law under which these men have been con
victed is itself bid and existent nowhere save in
the harsh and old-time code of New South
Wales. It is possib’e to fall under it by a
mere accident, and one may sin against it
while engaged on work of the highest service to
society. But it is not so much the libel law as
the act dealing with imprisonment for debt which
is here concerned. That act, by excluding
damages and costs sustained in libel actions from
the category of debts for 12 months, throws an
unfortunate defendant back upon the time when
the debtor’s parson vas counted the property of
his creditors. There is an opportunity here for a
straightforward member to move Parliament to
some effect. The question is important in the
abstract, and the two men who are now in gaol,
while their families are in distress outside, give it
urgency and compel active interest.
* * *
The Bulletin does not contend that a libelled
man should in no case have the power of sending
to gaol a man who has wantonly and cruelly
traduced him. But if a man is to be sent to gaol
for libel, let him be sent to gaol for a specific
term by the Supreme Court sitting in its criminal
jurisdiction in pursuance of the verdict of a jury.
The Russians have some ideas on the subject of
prison discipline which leave even New South
Wales law in the lurch. A few months ago a
London Daily News correspondent made his way
on board a Muscovite war vessel which was about
to sail with 460 convicts bound for Saghalien, and
quite a number of interesting facts came under
his notice. Among them was a device for boiling
25 refractory convicts at a time
Immediately outside the cages and attached to the under
part of the deck overhead is a steam-pipe connected with
the ship’s boilers. Into these pipes are fitted sorew nozzles
at intervals of 12 feet. The object of the steam-pipe is
to suppress any dangerous outbreak among the inmates
of the cage. By means of a short hose, specially made
to resist the steam heat, quickly attached to one of the
steam-pipe nozzles, the turbulent convicts are readily
quieted or parboiled. Strong water-jets have been found
next to useless in allaying these occasional tumults.
After this New South Wales may take a back seat
and sing soft and very low about her four-barrelled
gallows, which wasn’t such a striking invention,
after all.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whits Patknt Root,hr Flour Is the
heqf in thp marVeh
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Victoria and Imperialism.
On the evening of November 28 there happened a
distressing ebullition of grovel in the Victorian
Assembly. The O’Loghlen, in a temperate, and
well-worded speech, urged upon D. Gillieb and
Co. the necessity of taking one first step towards
Australian Federation by following the lead of
Queensland, New South Wales, and South Aus-
tralia on the burning question of gubernatorial
selection. The mover closed an address which
will stand close analysis by saying “ those who
can draw down volleys of after-dinner cheers in
speaking upon the subject of federation are yet
willing to sacrifice the true interests of the
country by now refusing to come to the aid
of their fellow-Australians.” Then Mr. Jack
Murray, a gentleman whose weight and inches
would fit him for the New South Wales Senate,
had sufficient pluck to take up the O’Loghlen
strain, but from that time forth the British Lion
flourished his tail around the agitated chamber.
None of the familiar Oppositionists—long since
reckoned up by The Bulletin —were present.
Bent, Munro, Harper— even Shikls, Miramb,
and Gaunson —had slunk into retirement for the
time being, and when the political abasement of
Victoria had been affirmed by 50 votes to 3, it only
remained for the Government’s medical adviser,
L. L. Smith, to give his patients their key-note in
a discordant bawling of “ God Save the Queen !”
Meantime a crowd of giggling women loyalised
(new word !) in the strangers’ gallery. Glowing
accounts of this carefully-planned demonstration
have been cabled “home” to “strengthen the
hands of the Government,” and serve as a tonic
for the somewhat debilitated British constitution.
Gillies, chief of the Victorian White Waistcoat
party, must get his knighthood now. It is con-
ceivable that L. L. Smith will shortly be em-
powered to put P.C. on his brass plate, or have
the pleasure of prescribing for our future king by
post, in which case Tummy will owe his mother’s
admirer one guinea until such time as he (Tummy)
can clutch the Privy purse. Nevertheless, we can
congratulate O’Loghlen on the issue of a debate
which stamped the members of the Victorian
Assembly —with three exceptions—as upholders
of I mperialism. The Bulletin has repeatedly
pointed out that the government of Victoria had
drifted into the hands of a crawling clique, whose
professed opponents were confederates in disguise.
Any further reiteration of such a patent truth is
surely unnecessary. And now, are the deputy
subjects of Sir Henry Loch content to pay their
political representatives £3OO a year for repudiat-
ing their own claims to have a voice in the selec-
tion of the gentleman privileged to Co3t the colony
some £20,000 per annum ?
-v
Wanted an Orator.
There was a wild rapture in that cry of Galileo,
“ It moves ! it moves ! ” . Thrilled with the in-
spiration of genius, feeling almost this old planet
stirring beneath his feet like a living thing, he
knew he was right, and no force, superhuman or
subterhuman, could close the glowing eyes of his
soul to the light of the revelation. It is in a cycle
of ages only that such an experience is given to a
man, and in this wise century, when so many
mysteries have been solved, and such numberless
shams have been exposed, the possibility of en-
thusiasm about anything—at least such an en-
thusiasm as filled Galileo with a joy sweeter
than that of new wine—has reached almost to the
irreducible minimum. Yet it were to bs desired
that a man would arise amongst us, aflame with
the ardour that burnß the soul and wastes the
body, to strike on our d'd! ears with tocsin words
of liberty, and force into our cold hearts
the evangel of Independence. We want an
orator. We want a man in a passion
—a passion that won’t bo fitful or calcu-
lating. We want a man who will go up and down
through all this broad land, stirring the very
souls of men witfi the music of his tempestuous
anger. It were bast that he should ba of this
land; that the star sof the fiery cross should have
glowed upon his birbh, and the winds of our
mystic forests should have lulled his earliest
years. He should speak the tongue of the people,
and the adornments of his speech should 1)8 as
familiar as the wattle-blossom He should have a
single purpose, forbidding his mind to ponder cn
theories, construct plans, or pass judgment on
schemes. He should know neither fear nor doubt.
He should set his fac 3 towards one great goal and
tread the way to it with the remorseless tenacity,
the stern, fixed purpose of Othello when all
doubt had ceased :
“ Dost thou hear, lago ?
I will bs found most cunning in my patience ;
Rut (dost thou hear ?) most bloody.”
It is about time something were done. Here is
this group of colonies presenting to each other
chain-defended frontiers, with ei-tom houses like
iron links at every road ; regarding each other
with the silly jealousy of sulky children ; curbing
each other’s progress at every point with restric-
tions like a galling gag-snaffle, and this while each
and all are the prey and stamping-ground of aris-
tocratic adventurers who are at no pains to con-
ceal their contempt for the people upon whom
they thrive. It is a hideous scene to gaz s upon,
but it could be changed. One man with the
furious oratory of Demosthenes and the wasting
haste of Jonathan Swift could briog that change
about. Fo.-, verily, the orator’s voice is a mighty
power, and it could wake such echoes from Aus-
tralian shore to shore as would reverberate in the
ears of Australia’s sons until they did the patriot's
duty by their proud young land. The times are
ripe. Where is the man ? The pile is built. Who
will apply the torch ? Is it vain to - search for the
orator and evangelist of Australian Federation ?


B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING
AND
OFFICE
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE,
W. M. JIICLARM,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder
Account Book Manufacturer, &c., &c. ’
Maclardy's £5 Box of Stationery a specialty Send for
List of Contents. '
Note Address—
-319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B. —Now opening a Large
and Fancy Goods.
Assortment of Xmas Cards
Inspection invited.
"Mt Tailor, ” 154 King-street. Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suite t<* wndfaiif. t r e'A %, * »
CORRESPON PENCE
“ ilobahdeboWster ” : Re Land Tax Values.
You cannot have read George and others very carefully.
H is intended to impose the “ single tax ” on unimproved
laud values only. The State tenant will require to pur-
chase Irorn the outgoing tenant his improvements, which
thus beoome in turn his property. Now land value is
either inherent or created. Inherent value is either
natural or given by the presence or combined efforts o
the community; it inoludes “geological formation,
natural drainage, climate, aspect, surface, and sub-soil,”
or depends on “ density of population, vicinity of towns,
ports, railroads, or public highways.” ' The created value
—that furnished by the holder and his predecessors—
oonsiats of “-buildings, fences, drains, gates, plantations,
private roads, &o.” The former value belongs to the
oommunity and is the basis of rent; the latter solely to
the individual occupant. Here let it be remarked that
use and occupancy are essential to successful State
ownership; that under it sub-lettiDg will probably
be prohibited, and mortgage, if possible, abolished.
No doubt landlordism by its confiscation of all im-
provements, its octopus-like grip on value conferred by
tenant industry or expenditure, has done much to check
productiveness, because improvements effected under
private ownership have usually meant increase of rent on
renewal of lease. As to the separation of these values,
that can easily be done by experienced valuators, or the
unimproved value of land may be fixed by the yearly rent
offered at public auotion for neighbouring unimproved
areas. As Alfred Russell Wallace says in his work on
Land Nationalisation, to whioh we refer you for further
information, the separation of values is being per-
formed in Ireland by the Land Courts daily
“ Sans Souci ” (Glenooe): Good stories, but one or two of
them a little too “ sudden ” for publication. Glad to hear
from you “Bertha S.” (Blayney): Will use. Many
thanks “ John B.” (Montague Island): Thanks. As to
whether borax will prevent colours from fading when
mixed in washing-water, we may say we have never been
in the laundry-line ourselves : and, as we are on bad terms
just now with our washing lady, we cannot ask her. We
often “poke borax," but we never use it in any other
way.. George ”: His impudence entitles him to his
advt “Sympathiser” (Brisbane): Rather off-colour
“Aristotle”: At Annandale, Sydney, we believe....
“ W.L.”: Indeed! Why, if nowadays you sent to an
American newspaper a letter which was not type-written,
the editor would flip it into the dust-bin.. ..“T.M.”
(Widgeegoma ”): Many thanks, but clipping not sent
“ R. 8." : We have excommunicated your poem “How we
met the Cardinal.” “ H.H.” (Melbourne): Received
“ Freetrader ’’: Australia buys British goods at the
rate of £7 per head of population per annum, while canny
Protectionist Canada purchases at the rate only of £llos.
per capita, ergo Britain has more oause to seek to main-
tain the Australian than the Canadian conneotion....
“ A Working Coolie" : We consider the six months’ resi-
dential qualification a necessary safeguard. You would
find to your sorrow “ that if men were allowed to itinerate
with votes in their pockets ” it would be a simple scourge
to the back of labour.... “ Church ” (Melbourne); Thanks
for item “A Working Man ” (Thargomindab) : Will
work up some day —“ J P.J’ (Cooktown): Your friend is
no slouch of a poet, but the verses you send are just a
little too frisky “W.T.C.”: Your thoughtful letter is
too long for publication. We agree wibh your conclusion
regarding the wholesale corruption of the daily press by
unblushing Ministerial patronage. Government adver-
tising should be fairly distributed amongst papers of every
claes, whether for or against the Government “M.” :
Your verses on “Australian Independence” are of un-
equal merit One or two are fair, several indifferent, and
the rest bad. The verses we like are—
“ A bloodless parting from the parent land
Will be our lot—with blessings we shall go,
Not rebels from her favour, but a band
More British than the British that we know.
“ W hat though the thought of danger should appal
The faint in heart, who raise their feeble cry ;
We scorn the fear that prophesies our fall,
And hail the day of independence nigh.”
“ C.C.W." (Albion Park): The only purely sporting paper
published in N.Z. is the Referee, issued at Christchurch,
and it is far-and-away the best journal devoted to sport
in the oolonies “ Flemington ”: When you reach Syd-
ney, run up to Katoomba, where there is excellent hotel
accommodation. Katoomba is an easy journey from the
Caves, and is only four or five hours by rail from the City
of the B.H. Bourke is hundreds of miles from the Blue
Mountains “Paul Pry” (Horsham): You write fairly
well, but your subject is not one of public interest
“ Constant Rsader ” : “ The Agent for Immigration, Bris-
bane,” will find him “Novel”: It has just been de-
cided in England (in Burnett v. Seebohtn) that the right
of dramatising a novel belongs exclusively to the author
of the novel “Frank Chandos”: Excellent. Next
week. Please call “Henry Turner”: The old man
should apply to the Government to consider his case. As
he won the land in a lottery we are afraid he wouldn't re-
ceive very much consideration. [Many letters held over. ]
Mr. Dan. O’Connor, Im Pay, occupied a
front seat at the Sandall-Seale glove-fight.
Mr. C. A. Goodchap and the Constitution
of New South Wales arrived in the same ship in
1853.
An English periodical says that the
wealthiest Welshman alive is probably G. W.
Taylor, of Melbourne.
The goodwill of a Sydney squash-shop—
size about 6ft. x 6ft., and worth, with contents,
say £20 —was sold the other day for £3OO
No member of the Parkes Government
attended the Goodchap banquet, and but one—
T ‘ Honest ” John Sutherland —sent an apology.
Among the wedding presents sent to Essie
Jenyns by her devoted admirers there were no
jess than 866 bottles of Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
Two Anglican clergymen went down
Sydney harbour to welcome Cardinal Moran on
his return. We hope now to hear of two R C.’s
having been told off to attend the Barry reception
Jamie Munro, the temperance-schemer,
has enough conscience to rise at a Presbyterian
breakfast and say it was a gratifying fact that out
of the 1,000,000 inhabitants of Victoria 200,000
are total abstainers. Jamie includes the inhabi-
tants who drink nothing but mother’s milk.
The Keferee
Thus a Sydney daily “ Dooley and
Slavin box eight rounds in Foley’s Gymnasium on
Monday evening, December 10, the winner to
take two-thirds of the gate-money and the loser
one-third. The contest to be under the Queens-
berry rules, with fair-sized boxing-gloves. The
original agreement has been cancelled.” Hum,
likewise, Ha !
During the past four years Mr. Frank
Smith, of Botany, Sydney, has given £5307, irre-
spective of trophies, for sprint races, long-distance
handicaps, and hurdle races competed for at his
grounds. The Carington Ground Committee have
improved on this, however, as they have given
£5130 for similar sports at their grounds during
JAMES PATERSON,
CHAMPION DRAUGHT-PLAYER OF AUSTRALIA.
the past 21 months only. In the way of encourag-
ing pedestrianism, these amounts leave the rest of
the world nowhere
* •
A rather tame two days’ racing at Bendigo
resulted in more tribulation for the Victorian
ring, although the sufferings of that distinguished
body were alleviated by the thoughtful considera-
tion of the stewards, who invited Joe Thompson
and Co. to join them in an official liquor. This
incident, we believe, is unique in turf annals, and
characteristic of our levelling age A rising light-
weight named Fountain rode Tourbillon to clever
victory in the Sandhurst Gold Cup, and the
disappointing Stanley belied his good looks once
more. Vermont won the Bendigo Handicap with
a bit in hand; and the only other notable event of
the meeting was a trotting-race scandal on the
second day. For this the gelding Hawkdun
opened at 2 to 1, but was subsequently knocked
out to tens, while the winner, Brunette, was
objected to on the ground that she had been running
in New Zealand under another name. But the
public are getting pretty weary of trotting-races,
and their interest in this crooked branch of
“ sport ” is only kept alive by an unholy hanker-
ing to be “ in ” what is usually a barefaced ramp.
• *
We learn from London that young Tom
Sayers, of Sydney, has forwarded £25 to do up old
Tom’s grave, which had become dilapidated. How
is it that young Tcm has managed to live in ob-
scurity in an athletic mad town, or how is it that
such an enterprising caterer as Larry Foley has
missed such a draw ? Some years ago we knew
young Tom when he was a lion-comique on the
music-hall stage. Mace’s son is a dissenting
parson.
* ,
Sandall’s backers bought “ the house ” on
Saturday night from Larry Foley for £l5O and
intended making Sandall a gift of their profit on
the transaction.
• * «
They say in N.Z. that Manton Is a better
horse than Carbine.
• B
Madigan, one of the European contingent
with the Maori footballers, wbo, it is cabled, has
broken his leg, broke his collarbone while play-
ing against the Englishmen at Auckland, N.Z.,
some months ago.
“ Pendraaon,” who should know, attri-
butes Tom King’s premature death to the ham-
mering he received from Heenan in their fight of
25 years ago.
* *
The lateat Beach-Hanlan match was
alleged to be for £5OO a-side. Was this genuine
or was it a hippodrome ? If the money was real,
who, we wonder, is the wealthy nincompoop who
planked it for the much-beaten Hanlan?
Immediately after Leodogram, a gelding,
won' the selling race at the recent Ashburton
(N. Z.) Hunt Club meeting he was purchased by
an up-country gentleman who has just turned his
attention to breeding, and who was on the look-
out for the makings of a first- class sire.
• O <»
Pedestrianism in Sydney is beginning to
show signs of decay. The peds. themselves are
killing the goose that lays the golden egg, for
Frank Smith can only give liberal prizes while the
public patronise the sport. People will soon get
disgusted with the swindling which is now asso-
ciated with footracing.
* * *
Now that meetings like Wagga have to de-
pend solely on local competitors, it is felt that the
handicapper should be a local man.
* * *
The “ champion ” pugilist is the most suc-
cessful of all showmen. His exhibitions generally
result in a “ draw.”
* * C
What a falling off is here ! L. E. Myers,
the crack sprinter, is now acting as genteel pen-
ciller to an American bookmaker.
* * •
One down, the other up. Jubilee Juggins
Benzon no sooner bobs down serenely from the
English turf than another plunger is to the fore.
The new aspirant for a brief career on the turf is a
young gentleman named Bassett, just come of age,
and the possessor of £250,000, with £50,000 a
year.
# # »
When oarsman O’Connor arrives from
America to pull Champion Searle, how the other
O’Connor will grip him by the hand !
* * -• tt
Major Wahxieeley, managing director of
the N.Z. Stud Company, who accompanied the
recent shipment of N Z. horses to Sydney, states
that the horse market there is glutted.
• * *
Mr. Purves, Q.C., President of the A.N. A.,
was on board one of the yachts sailing for Sir Wil-
liam Clarke’s trophy in Hobson’s Bay the other day.
This is the first time a yacht has carried her own
wind-power, and the experiment was watched
with interest. However, it was not successful,
The Purves would not blow off shore.
* # *
That discussion in Sydney aquatic circles
about the status of the ‘ 1 manual-lab: ur amateur ”
is worthy of Dickens’ barber who drew the line at
shaving coal-porters.
■X- * *
The quarrel between the A. J.C. and the
Rosehill Racing Club, over the question of dates,
is a pretty cne as it stands. Much may be said on
both sides.
-X- -x- -X-
For the Disposal Stakes at Rosehill, on
Saturday, The Creeper started favourite at 2 to 1,
One booky cried the odds, “ I lay 2 to 1 The
L —Mr. Swan’s pick of a name for his filly
was not a happy one.
** . *
Of the six starters for the handicap
steeplechase at Rosehill, on Saturday, only Major,
with Phillips up, managed to finish the course.
The recent Amateur Steeplechase had a similar
result, which looks much as if the horses are not
up to the work, in which case it is cruelty to man
and beast to put such races on the programme.
* * *
Intercolonial champion four- oar race. Re-
sult Victoria, New Zealand, Tasmania, New
South Wales last. However, N.SW. can scarcely
be said to have been represented. The two Ken-
nedys, Johnson, and “Charley” Bros could dis-
tance the crew said to represent the mother colony.
ifr # *
The wrfitor, who was seated near Ned
Hanlan at Saturday’s big amateur glove-fight,
heard the < arsman exclaim that 1 e bad seen all
the bBst boxers of the cDy, but in point of quick-
ness he had never seen anything to equal Seale.
Sandall does not appear to have any left hand,
but relies on crossing with the right, which he got
on with effect on Saturday night.
• • •
It is estimated that there are over 300 pro-
fessional pedestrians in Sydney, and it is belie ved
that if the vagrancy laws were very stringently
administered about 280 of them would be in Dar-
linghurst Gaol. Any man who travels exclußi vely
on his “ visible means of support ” ought to be in
gaol.
We will take this matter coolly
Whether Slavin wins or Dooley,
For we’re filled with no wild ravin’
To back Dooley or big Slavin.
So if Slavin knocks out Dooley
We’ll say “serve him right, more fool he,”
Or should Dooley knock out Slavin,
Vice-versa, “ great big craven.”
Yet we think that Slavin-Dooley
Grab the public where they’re woolly;
And we’re sure they’ll draw a crowd in-
surer that they’ll draw the fight.
Deacon Thompson's Sympathy.
On perusing the famous “ Letter of Sympathy ”
penned by the lily-white hands of our friend and
co-worker the Rev. Pastor Jefferis, L.L.D., in
the vestry of the Congregational Church, Pitt-
street, Sydney, “with the concurrence of the :
assembled deacons,” and thence forwarded to Mr..
Alfred Bennett, the leading proprietor of the
destroyed Evening News office, we were at first,
impaled on the horns of a dilemma. The “Mr*
Joseph Thompson” of the epistle (“one of our
deacons, who recommended Mr. Chas. Fairfax
on Sunday morning to make the offer—to print
the Evening News— which the Herald did
make ”), it was evident to us, was either the
“ King of the Ring ” and the backer of Ben Seth,
the fighting Yiddisher, or he was identical with
some much more obscure individual whose good
or evil fortune had gifted him with the appellation
so gloriously borne by his illustrious namesake
through many a fish-market, saddling-paddock,
and pugilistic encounter. In the first case “Joe’s ”
sympathy with the Evening News could be easily
understood, though his diaconal presence at
the Congregational Church, Pitt-street, Sydney,
seemed utterly unexplainable to us. -In the latter
case, although probably an admirer of the “Chris-
tian athlete,” who wrestles for the sure reward of
gate-money here below and the hypothetical
trophy of a golden crown hereafter, he is most
likely no sportsman and therefore little acquainted
with the tone of the paper whose cause he has so
valiantly espoused. In order that his eyes may
be opened we hf re quote a few lines from a glowing
account of the great battle between the darkey
Peter Jackson, an Australian ring-fighter, and
George Godfrey, the famous American black
bruiser, which appeared in the Evening News of
September the 21st, 1888—in point of fact, only a
couple of months ago Listen, Deacon Joseph
Thompson :
GODFREY NEARLY SLAUGHTERED.
'The fifth round was a sample of fighting such as has
Beldam been seen anywhere. Godfrey began by spitting
out a mouthful of blood as soon as he toed the soratoh.
It was thought that he had lost some teeth, but this was
not so. Jackson seemed eager for business, and Godfrey
accommodated him by trying a left and right hander, the
first of which went home, but the second did not. Jack-
son caught his man with both fists before he could recover
and the Bostonian’s chaneeß for the next minute looked
blue. Smash after smash from the huge Australian’s fists
sounded on his face till he changed to the colour of an
Indian, and Jackson's gloves grew carmine. It looked as
if the Bostonian could never last out the round. Though
fairly slaughtered he fought like a tiger. Jackson’s whit
draws (sic) were sprinkled with blood by every blow.
There are over two columns of this sort of sunff;
set in the smallest type used in newspaper yyprk.
We appeal to Deacon Thompson, who wq.under-
stand to be a most reputable and well-intgntioned,
citizen, to inform us if this is the sort ol thing
he’d really like to see on the vestry-table beneath
the tablet inscribed “Peace on earth: goodwill
towards men.” If it is, in his opinion, unsuited
to the atmosphere of the vestry, then we’d like to
know if he yearns to see it disseminated broadcast
through the country. Personally, being a bit
tough in the hide, we have little objection to this
kind of writing; what we would like to under-
stand is the manner in which ecclesiastical
authorities reconcile their thundering denuncia-
tions of brutal sports and gambling with their ful-
some and spontaneous expressions of sympathy
with newspapers which popularise such evils by
their lengthy and sensational treatment of news of
this character. _ We pause for an explanation,
and, while pausing, take occasion to remark that
we know several parsons of most mediocre
intellect, who would have been no slouches
as advance-agents for a circus; their “nose”
for a gratuitous ad. seems to be quite as fine
as that of the now historic importer of “unique
mantel-pieces and gas-fittings.”
Dance, fool, exultant in your sun’s last rays,,
While, rising round you, terribly serene,
Black, thund’rous, where the lightning’s daggers'
gleam,
The Storm is coming that, with crash and blaze
Shall shake your little soul from out its place '
Of power and pelf, and hurl you, with the mean
Co-partners of your greed, from off life’s scene,
Flashing upon your impotent craven face !
Dance, fool, and sing! You soon shall understand'
To grovel and howl. The hour is close at hand
When Queen nor God shall save you, but your
name
Shall stink within the nostrils of our Fame,
Australia’s supreme dastard, he who planned
To tell the freedom of his native land !
„• U ona u Feancrs Adam*.
Brisbane, 30th November.
To Duncan Gillies,
PREMIER OF THE COLONY OF VICTORIA.
after he had finished singing “God Save the Queen" with
his victorious caucus-pomp and gallery “gods," and had
rushed off to cable the news “ home ” for the British Secre-
tary of State, happily forgetful of the fact that the
General Elections are at hand, and that, for far less be-
frayal of his country’s cause, Griffith suffered utter over-
throw and humiliation, and has only escaped perennial-
impotence and contempt by thorough recantation and.
repentance.


JOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM,
The Leading Pleasure Resort of Australia, Coogee.
Every Afternoon and Evening,
Prof. BECKFORD and his famous Marionette and Punch
and Judy Show.
Mons. LECARDO, the marvellous Snake and Animal
Tamer, with his Living Wonders !
The Magnificent SWIMMING BATHS !
The Sensational TOBOGGAN !
The,New SWINGING BOATS!
Saturday Next-Grand Costume Swimming Carnival for
Ladies and Gentlemen.
Ladies’ Races. Long Diving, &0., Ac.
Great M.tch for £‘2o i -side between
Mr. LAURENCE FOLEY,\ ./Mr. PHIL STUART,
Well-known Athlete, / 1 \ Natator.
SUN DA F —The Popular Promenade Concert.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is; Children, 6d.
A E. STOPFORD, Manager
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.— “ Struck Oil ” p. 14.
Heb Majesty’s.—'* Queen Elizabeth ” „
Criterion. — “ The Private Secretary ” ~
Haymarket Music Hall.— Harry Rickards „
New Opera House.— Minstrelsy
Signor and Signora Majeroni, two of the
bust and, so far as the mass of theatre-goers are
concerned, the least-appreciated artistes in the
Southern Hemisphere, have resuscitated “Eliza-
beth ” at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and a rather
thin audience gaze with lack-lustre eyes at the
result. From their aspect it is evident that one-
half of them never heard of Elizabeth, and the
other half regard her vaguely as an ancient
monarch who lived in foreign parts long ago, and
was always ready to fight any other queen not
over ten stone for all she was worth and the gate-
money. This melancholy ignorance makes a good
show fall rather flat. The gallery-boys are yearn-
ing all the time to see the detective come in,
and when the hours pass and there isn’t any
detective they begin to feel hurt. They ask
bitterly, “Wot’a come of the tank ?” and the tank
refuses to respond; and the leary bloke of the
period settles down in a state of depression to
watch the glittering pageant of dukes, kings,
swords, jewels, armour, palaces, and other pro-
perties, with a stern resolve to take the value of
his humble coin out in wear and tear of the royal
family. “ Elizabeth,” as played by the Majeronis,
is a powerful drama, but three-fourths of the
average Sydney audience yearns for a burlesque
queen with a red nose, who can kick the gas out
with both feet, and consequently there is little
scope for the old Tudor sovereign whose
temper was so unreliable 300 years ago. Yet,
thanks to Signora Majeroni, she looks all
that can possibly be desired in the way of
a queen, and when she smothers with diffi-
culty an inward longing to heave her boots at
the head of Essex she is a noble specimen of
aggravated womanhood. Signora Majeronis’
queen is beautiful and passionate, sometimes filled
with profound contemplation but generally with
suppressed excitement, energetic, stately, pic-
turesque, and always liable to borrow the head of
anybody who treads on her royal will, and, prac-
tically, she has the drama to herself. The Signor
gives a fascinating representation of Essex up till
about a quarter to 10 p m., at which hour his head
is taken off punctually and placed upon a spike.
While his head lasts he is a general fa-
vourite, and he casts a gloom by his
painful disappearance. Mr. Jewett gets a little
show as James YI. of Scotland—net the
shambling, spidery, flabby, treacherous, knock-
kneed, sham-Solomon and delusive Moses of
history, but a warlike monarch who never lived ;
and the rest of "the company are crowded into
parts where they have practically nothing to do
but stand round and keep their feet out of the
way. But after all, this doesn’t matter. The
queen fills the bill, and only the fact that we have
hereditary down on queens prevents us degenera-
ting into raptures about her and then sliding
down the short, steep descent which lies between
rapture and maudlin gush of the meanest descrip-
tion.
# # # #
“ Maritana,” under difficulties, is doing a
profitable business at Sydney Gaiety, Miss Dora
Wiley officiating as the gipsy goddess of the day.
This vigorous little lady is understood to be of
American extraction, and on Saturday night she
made her first appearance in opera on board this
continent, when an enthusiastic, if somewhat sur-
prised, audience assembled to greet her and see
her throw sundry new lights on the favourite story
of Don Csesar de Bazan. Miss Wiley appears in
the first act in a dress which is a wild mixture of
two shades of green and one of glaring orange, a
costume which suggests that she is one-half Fenian
and the other half the other thing; and in the
second act she wears a bridal costume which
obliterates her waist and presents her as a stupen-
dous infant about to be christened. Her acting,
too, is uncertain at first, and her singing occasion-
ally unreliable ; but in the third act she appears
magnificently attired, and plays her part with a
grace which makes the audience wonder why she
didn’t do it before. Her rendering of “ The Harp
in the Air ” proves her to be the possessor of a
voice of no ordinary value, and another cause of
public grief is that she doesn’t always seem to
have it along with her. Mr. Percy Shannon, the
tenor gentleman who represents. Don Caesar, is
also in difficulties with his voice, in the first act,
and is really excellent in the third. His acting
and his declamation, however, are much better at
all times than his singing, and his general
unfixableness makes criticism totter on its throne.
On his first entrance, Mr. Shannon is ragged
beyond human description, and his appearance m
two odd boots, one stocking, and a collection of
rents and tatters, seems to be rather overdoing
the character. Mr. Warwick Gainor, as Don
Jose, has his good points. His singing is partly
one of them, and his acting isn’t very bad to any
great extent, and he drags his massive frame
through the show without disaster. Miss
Josephine Deakin’s Lazarillo, on the other hand,
is good all through, and this little songstress gets
most of the encores and makes a greater success
than any of her companions. Mr. Dean is a
shrieking comedy as that amusing dawg, the Mar-
quis de Montifiore, Director of the Royal Mena,
gerie and general superintendent of the wild
beasts; and Mr. Chris. Johnson, who has been
lying low somewhere for three years past, is
reasonably successful as the King of Spain 1 he
scenery is equal to the occasion, and is brilliant,
calm, and collected all through, and the orchestra
speaks for itself. Whether “ Maritana win be
a great success or not is not yet fully decided, but
if Miss Wiley will judiciously abandon her green
and orange combination, there are certain chances
in its favour.
# # * *
' That architectural Rip Van Winkle,
Sydney Opera House, has awakened from its long
slumber and blown the dust off itself to welcome
Hiscocks and Friedman’s Speciality Company, an
aggregation which has scooped the pool in many
cities and earned much approbation wherever it
went. It is difficult, however, to make the pre-
sent generation remember that there is such a
place as the buried Opera House, and conse-
quently the crowd on Saturday wasn t more than
half as strong as it should have been, considering
the abilities of the company. The proceedings
are opened by Arthur Sullivan and Ethel bil-
vena, a pair whose strong point lies in light-
ning changes, and who undergo variations and
transmutations in full view of the audience
until it becomes difficult to guess whether they
don’t ultimately intend to swallow themselves and
retire as soup. Itchie and another person, who
are described as Japanese balancers, go through
an amazing performance on the points of needles
and other unsubstantial roosting places, and
Messrs. Lawler, Keenan, Gilmore, Parlattto, and
others are in various ways boo surprising bo live.
The Hiscccks-Friedman show ranks altogether
among the best variety combinations which have
ever struck the land of Parkes and the kangaroo,
and if it is possible to galvanise the Opera House
into life things will hum in the public-house-strewn
locality of York-street, Sydney.
* # # *
“ Struck Oil ” is announced to last at the
Sydney Royal until Friday, the “Shadows of a
Great City ” to follow after that date. Also, on
Saturday, December 8, Frank Clark’s All-Star
Combination opens at the Academy, supported by
the “Leading Artistes in the Universe,” to quote
the language of the advertisement. The smallness
of the Academy and the vast dimensions of this
order suggest that the leading artistes may possi-
bly be stifled unless the management provides a
breathing hole for them, but this matter will pro-
bably be attended to.
# * # *
“II Trovatore,” which drew a demonstra-
tive audience to Melbourne Opera House on
Saturday night, brought out the best points of
Mr. Simonsen’s Italian company, more especially
of Mdlle. Louise Lablache. This thorough arti.sb
(whose Carmen was a powerful piece of work) now
appeared as the awesome Azucena, and carried
her chief scene clean away with a whirlwind of
rich song and tragic intensity. The tenor Dimi-
tresco, always robust in voice and style, also flung
himself into the occasion with much fervour, and
there was no fault to find with prima donna
Ajmo, except a slight cold on the chest.
Pimazzoni sang his old part with improved
effect, while the basso, Mancini, did his little bib
in the stage-filling manner peculiar to that im-
pressive warbler. Although most of them were
pretty well used up before the closing scene, there
were times when the aforementioned deserved
more adjectives of praise than space permits. The
familiar “Anvil Chorus’’also went with enthu-
siasm, and the orchestra developed some resources
which had long lain dormant until Saturday night.
On Wednesday and Thursday the Anglo-Austra-
lians give “Maritana,” but there should be a
sufficiently warm demand for “ II Trovatore ” to
induce at least two more performances of that old
favourite anon.
# * # *
“Hans the Boatman” returned to the
Bijou on Saturday, accompanied by the same
artless infant and faithful dawg that contributed
so largely to the success of this innocuous tragedy
in days which arc forever fled. Miss Myra
Kemble, Pattie Browne, and Mr. W. 11. Leake
also returned to their old places, but some minor
changes from the original company were not of a
strengthening nature. The pretty little show
hummed much, however, and Mr. Charles Arnold
was blessed with abnormally heavy cash receipts.
Another aggravated case of swollen exchequer
occurred at the Princess’s, brought about by a
fresh outbreak of “ lolanthe.” Miss Col-
bourne-Baber did her best to endow Phillis
with the subtle charm hitherto breathed
into that character by Miss Nellie Stewart,
who is giving her youth and beauty a well
earned rest. Any selfish regrets at Nellie’s
absence are tempered by a profound conviction
that the angels have borne her aloft, on a bed of
soft leaves, for a short stay in brighter regions,
and we hope the change of air will be beneficial.
“ lolanthe” knocks off after Friday, so there is no
occasion to further dilate upon the high-class
character of Gilbert and Sullivan’s gauzy master-
piece. It is a pity that such a work will have no
raison d'etre in the near future, when the House
of Peers has become but a disgusting memory of a
ridiculous past.
# * * *
“ Hands Across the Sea ” discontinues to
unhinge the enquiring mind after Friday night,
and on Saturday Mr. Charles Warner preaches a
great moral lesson, to the effect that “ It’s Never
too Late to Mend,” a remark which doesn’t apply
to socks and other undergarments. “The World
against Her ” keeps on all this time at the Alex-
andra, and Miss Lily Dampier is baritoning her
lines with unusual solemnity since the abdication
of Essie was officially announced. In due course,
perhaps, another tender vision will waste her lung-
power in monotonous endeavours to talk like Miss
Dampier, and thus the Mary Anderson tradition
will be handed down from generation to genera-
tion like the curse of Cain. But enough of dull
foreboding ! Next Saturday afternoon Mr.
Dampier gives a performance in aid of the Child-
ren’s Hospital, all expenses to be defrayed by his
own good self.
* # # #
The flush of prosperity brightens the cheek
of a few more Melbourne shows. St. George’s
Hall became the scene of a prolonged shove on
Saturday night when the Coghills »elapsed into
minstrelsy and mixed varieties. The trouble ter-
minated in Canaris, a wizard from Greece, who
wears petticoats of many colours, and realises the
popular conception of a corsair. Canaris per-
formed sundry of the cleverest tricks that belong
to the history of legerdemain, and he also threw
in a new delusion which paralysed as many people
as had not already wearied of the magician and
gone home. Young Australia doesn’t take much
interest in thestrange unfathomable. If aprofessor
from Jerusalem ate a live pig before their eyes, and
reproduced the animal from his left ear in the form
of sausages, our rising generation would say it
was just a blooming trick, and what was the cove
giving ’em. Canaris, moreover, is rather slow
over his business and talks too much. But what
he talks about is the most awful mystery of his
entertainment. Wirth’s Circus is still holding on
at the old spot in Swanston-street, and the
Donaldson Bros, are tying themselves into human
knots at the Victoria Hall, previous to taking
their boneless structures back to America.
# # # #
There is every reason to hope that “ God
Save the Queen ” will shortly be wiped out of
Melbourne shows like vice-regal command nights.
The better classes of society, who occupy the
upper circles, have taken to hissing that old-estab-
lished hymn when it is played in honour of Sir
H. B. Loch, K.C.B.
* # * #
Sims Reeves Is coming. Anything is good
enough for the kawlinies.
# # * *
Harry St. Maur writes from Melbourne to
the N. Y. Mirror “ Has it occurred to
Americans that this continent is an important
theatrical field just now? Five, six, seven and
even eight thousand dollars is to be done here per
week in four towns, and three thousand in some
twelve or fifteen to the right attraction.”
* * * #
“A Run of Luck” by the Bland Holt
combination, has been the latest attraction at the
Adelaide Royal, but the piece has not met with
the support which a production, so excellent in
every respect, is fairly entitled to. Mr. Holt has
spared neither pains nor expense in placing his
dramas before the public of the holy city, but he
has received little support which is discouraging
to a degree. Miss Carrie Swain will next en-
deavour to bring the prayerful inhabitants to view
things in a more sensible and liberal light, and
starts with “ The Tomboy ” —tank included.
** * *
Composer Cowen wrote one of the London
papers a gushing account of orchestral doings at
Melbourne and mentioned that the choir had
given him ‘‘ a lovely album and address, with
beautifully-illuminated views of the Exhibition.
In due course this letter has been republished by
the Melbourne papers, and now the choir-girls
are more than ever convinced that Cowen is a
perfect duck of a fellow. Some of them go so far
as to call him a “darling boy,” and one_ giddy
enthusiast declares that his bald patch is “ divine.
Yum-yum.
## # *
About 50 of the best seats at all the big-
gest Exhibition concerts are marked off on the
plan as “vice regal reserve.” This is to prevent
the possibility of vulgar dreadful people sitting
near Lady Loch if she desires to hear the music.
Trespassers on the vice-regal reserve are liable to
a penalty not exceeding 40s. By the way, what a
satire on newspaper gush about the tremendous
character of these same concerts is the following
extract from the London Reeerek, It refers to a
performance at the Albero Hall, where, “at a
liberal computation there were not more than
4000 people present, and to those accustomed to
see the auditorium packed from floor to gallery,
there was something very cold and forbidding in
the vacant spaces on every hand.” The young
Australian is being given to understand that an
Exhibition concert is about the largest spectacle
on earth. A century hence it may be.
*# * *
Miss Juliet Scott Slddons Jenyns-Hollo-
way, step-sister to the divine Essie, is being saved
up for the poetic drama agin Plain Bill’s return
from furrin parts.
The Australian Amateur Boxing-
Championship.
A particularly lively evening was spent at
Foley’s hall, Sydney, on Saturday, and, judging
from the appearance of the house, the most fortu-
nate theatrical manager in town might have
“ swapped ” takings and gained a cool hundred or
two by the exchange. The proceedings com-
menced by a cheerful four rounds between Bonnar
and Fuller, in which the latter did most .of the
fighting, and the former supplied the grunting.
At the close Fuller stated that he yearned to meet
Ben Seth in mortal combat, and he invited that
Semitic gentleman to train down to 10st. and
come on for £5O or £lOO a side. Fitzsimmons
and M'Ewen followed for three rounds. Fitz-
simmons was tall and thin, and M‘Ewen short and
thick with an aspect of comic ferocity on his face,
and he fought with his mouth open. His strategy
consisted in charging wildly at Fitzsimmons from
the beginning of the round to the end, and he
fought after the fashion of a cat on a hot stove.
Now and then, thanks to his unwonted excite-
ment, the men got tangled up in hard knots and
had to be untied by their seconds, and at other times
M'Ewen seemed to have violent fits in four corners
at once. Occasionally, too, he would rush into
Fitzsimmons when the latter wasn’t there, and
then he would lose his balance and twirl round
like a top, and Fitz would give him a friendly
smack on the back as he revolved. To-
wards the close of the third round, how-
ever, M‘Ewen seemed to get his legs hitched in
his antagonist’s hair, and the wildest comedy that
the houee had ever seen was brought to a sudden
termination amid howls of inextinguishable mirth
from the one pound Beats and shrieks of fiendish
glee from the ten-shilling department and the
gallery. . #
Following this came the great attraction
of the evening, Seale v. Sandall, a contest of eight
rounds for the position of amateur champion
slogger of Australia. Led by old experience, the
public planked its little heap on Seale, the present
holder of the championship, and almost everyone
who had any money about him was willing to pile
it on at 2 and 3 to 1. On inspection, the New
Zealander proved to be rather the shorter man of
the two, and he had a shorter reach and a trifle
less science than his antagonist, but on the other
hand he was built all the way down, like the bole
of a gum-tree, his physical condition was better,
and from the squareness of his jaw and
other physical characteristics his pluck ap-
peared to be of a most reliable quality. When
the men entered the ring amidst tremendous
applause some unauthorised party put them to-
gether in the middle of the ring and made a speech
which nobody could hear. 'Then Foley
made a speech, but nobody could hear what
he said, and a small individual in check
clothes interrupted his eloquence by offering to
take “three to one, barring a draw.” Then the
referee got the two men in front of him and stood
waving his arms over them as if he were a priest
performing the marriage service, and, of course,
he made a speech. Then there were symptoms
that Dan. O’Conpor was going to make a spaiche,
and as the men evidently felt that it was better to
be punched than jawed at by a professional
jawster, they hurriedly walked to the centre of
the ring, shook hands, and started.
* * * .
The stillness of the crowd was death-
like while they sparred for a few seconds,
and Sandall then hit out at Seale, but missed
him. Before the spectators could realize
it Seale dashed in at his man and rained blows
on him left and right, biff, biff, bang, bang,.every
hit timed and every hit placed. The New
Zealander tried to counter him but could get no
opening against the awful rain of blows : he was
driven to his corner. and a hideous upper-cut in
his breathing apparatus spun him half round, and
a har<3 left-hand hit on the ear dropped him like a
stone. He lay doubled up against the ropes,
while Seale stood over him waiting for him to
renew the fight. The crowd had been silent from
sheer astonishment while this bit of fighting was
going on. No such fighting has ever been seen in
Sydney, especially during the first round of a
match. As soon as Sandall fell the feelings of the
people broke out and the yelling and cheering and
whooping made one think that the folk were all
mad. In his corner lay Sandall with his seconds
fanning him vigorously, while Foley was franti-
cally urging Seale to go back to his corner and sit
down fjo as not to distress himself, but he might
as well have sung a hymn for all the chance he
had of making himself heard in the babel that
was going on. The referee allowed Sandall his
ten seconds and then called “ time,” but he needed
the voice of an 81-ton gun to make anyone hear
him, and instead of Sandall going on with the
round as he should have done his seconds
sprang into the ring, lifted their man into his
chair, and started to rub ice on his head to bring
him round a bib. Seale went to his corner and
was attended to, but the round was not fought
out as it should have been.
• * *
The crowd, which Is only another way
of saying the Seale party, now became larky
and exuberant; it looked as if Sandall could
not come up for the second round, and many
people said that the fight was practically over.
“ I don’t grudge my ten bob if they don’t fight
another second,’ said more than one man. “That
one round was worth a pound of any man’s money
bo see.’’ On the call of time for the second round
things took a remarkable change. Sandall, who
had arisen with an affable smile on his counten-
ance, got an opening, and gave Seale a terrific
right-hander on the neck, knocking the latter
right under the ropes. Searle hopped back like a
shot, but was immediately floored again, and this
time he lay on the floor, collecting his thoughts,
while taking every bib of his ben seconds’ allowance.
The amazement of the audience knew no bounds,
and when Seale was knocked down for a third
time in that round the feelings of Sandall’s par-
tisans vented themselves in a series of yells that
would have done credit to Bedlam. They
screamed out, “Go on, Dick ! Finish him, Dick!
Get up, Seale, and fight! ” while the
Seale supporters adjured their man to take
his time, and get his wind—and heaven
knows, he wanted it badly. The feelings ot
the supporters of each man so completely carried
them away that perfect strangers were wrangling,
vociferating, and challenging one another to fight
all over the building. “Seale is a cur, he won’t
get up and fight! ” yelled a Sandall man. “I 11
knock your New Zealand head off if you say
that again! ” rejoined & Sealite. »“ Seale is beaten!
“ You’re a liar ! ” “ I’ll chuck you down off the
seats!” “Hou’re not fit!” Meanwhile, Seale
was up and at his man again, though very dis-
tressed and apparently stupefied. On going to
their corners it looked as if they might as well
take Seale away at once, as fie did not appear to
have a ghost of a show, but on coming out for the
third round he exhibited wonderful vitality by
immediately driving his right into Sandall’s bread-
basket and flooring that gentleman like a bullock.
Heavens, what a yell there was! Men shook
hands and danced about on the seats and the cries
of “Good boy, Georgie! ” were deafening. Sandall
was up as game as ever and the round ended
rather in Seale’s favour.
• * *
From this to the seventh round mat-
ters varied, the damage being about equal,
though Seale’s nose was, if possible, a little
ahead in point of size, and at any time a fair
flush hit would have finished the fight. Some
times Sandall would work his man into a corner
and deliver his pile-driving blows on the
other’s head and neck. Sometimes Seale would
freshen up and plant his right and left hits
into Sandall’s ribs and on to his nose. Seale gob
badly cut over the eye, and the blood streamed
down his face, but with the gameness of a bulldog
he went on fighting amidst the frantic cheers of
his supporters. However, he was evidently more
distressed than his adversary, and in the last
round Sandall tried all he knew to finish him up.
Seale was so tired that he could hit with no
force at all, and was fairly staggering about the
ring. Time and again he'went down, hit clean off
his f9et, and always as his ten seconds elapsed he
staggered up and pluckily faced his man. How-
ever, he kept falling all over the place, and several
times he had to lunge in to avoid severe punish-
ment and save his backers’ money. The moment
“ corners ” was called the crowd surged into the
ring. About a hundred men were carrying Sandall
along the hall, another hundred were similarly
hoisting Seale. Another lot were offering bo fighb
the referee, some yelled out “a draw! ” obherp,
“ Sandall wins ! ” and amidst cheers, yelling, and
hooting, the doors were thrown open at d the mob
surged out into the street. Nobody |knew who
had won, but every man was as hoarse as a crow
and as excited as a madman; it was the most
bloodtnirBty sight ever witnessed in the hall
which has seen so many determined battles.
Sandall undoubtedly had the best of it at the
finish ; whether he should have been awarded the
fighb is another question, as he failed to utterly
knock Seale out and would probably have been
knocked out himself only for the mess-up at the
end of the first round. However, only for some-
thing the moon would be made of green cheese.
There is balk of these two meeting again, and if
they do, then, gentle reader, you go bo it if you
like prize-fighting, even if you have to crawl to
Sydney on your hands and knees.
• * ’
We say “ if you like prize-fighting.” When
“ amateurs ” start to make chopping-blocks of
each other, there is no make-believe. The profes
sional fighters are mere lambs alongside your meek
amateur.
#* * -
Sandall Is a butcher. Seale found that
out on Saturday night.
Old Von Moltke wrote recently :
I have certainly faith in the courage and discipline of
our soldiers, but another war between France and Ger-
many would not be like the one of 187 u. We should have
to fight with nearly equal forces, and the chances on both
sides would, therefore, be equalised. Besides, German
unity is accomplished: she now should only aim at de-
fending herself if attacked.
A Ballarat parson has issued a volume of
poems chiefly addressed to some callous member
of the female persuasion whose mellifluous name iR
Ada. If Ada has perused these sempiternal
droppings of a feeble pen, she is probably long ere
this Ada-mant, and has fled even unto Geelong to
escape the cacophonous cackle of this cassock-
coated cockerel.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Is more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And is a
Pure Refreshing Beverage.
Be Oarefal jron obtain Wotra’a.
Exhibition Visitors ought to oarry handkerchiefs because
they oan get those useful articles perfumed gratia with
Cr»fe Apple Blossom at the Obown Fxbfumsbt Co.’s
Stands In the Melfronrao BxftllMties. All Melbourne
ll on this Seen*.
The most profitable use for a few pounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Investment Co., Ltd., 96 Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell-s Snow-white Patent
Roelbe FiiOttr. and your bread will be as white as snow
The Brickbat.
The Chinese press is a solemn institution,
but here and there a little light reading can be
gathered amid the wild, yellow waste ot its tea-
chest characters, and now and then a touch of
nature appears expressed in burning words that
look like a dog that has sat down on a red ant t
the surprise of both parties concerned. Amon
other airy trifles the Chinese press contains a
agony column in which the yellow person of th
EaSt unchains his wrath somewhat after th
fashion of his “Eulopean” brother, the only
visible difference being that the Mongol is mor
tedious in his descriptions, louder and madder
his woe, and more bitter and frantic in his vowso:
vengeance. Eor example, somewhere about
month ago Chon-Ai-Ching, a lady Celestial with
a family, was enticed from the paths of virtue by
a strange Chow, and fled leaving her relative s
bathed in woe. Whereupon her husband, Ko
Kum, paid for the insertion of this little notice
Oa the 15th day of the Bth moon a Huchow man whose
name I do not know went with my wife to the temple to
burn incense. Also on the 17th day of the Bth moon sh
secretly fled from the house, carrying a bundle with her
I cannot control my wrath and bitterness. She has been
eoticedaway by deceit. How, I wonder, -cm a mere
tailor’s blook succeed in beguiling a girl who has a lawfu
husband ? I will give lOiols. for the recovery of my wife
and should the man who has taken her away seek to re
tain her he shall be infamous to all eternity ; the line o
his ancestors shall be cut short and he shall be bereft o
posterity. Further we three-1 and my son and daughter
—will all risk our lives to punish him as he deserves.
Evidently Ho Kum is in deadly earnest. It takes
a Chow a long time to amass 40dols. at “ washee
washee,” and after he catchee him hash there is
seldom much left to spend in bloated dissipation.
The Chow who offers to plank down 40dols. in
one unearthly lump means be lud to a dead
cerbainty.
« # *
The Kiama Independent, “ printed by
steam,” is the pompous heading of a N.S.W. coun
try paper which Parkes should keep his eye upon
as a lasting and living evidence of the enterprise of
the great Freetrade colony. The fact that the
Kiama Independent is printed by steam instead
of the machine being dragged round by goats, is a
striking evidence of the progressive tendencies of
the age. If N.S. Wales were a low, degraded,
somnolent, broken-backed Protectionist com-
munity the Kiama Independent would pro-
bably rely on water-power, or horse-power,
or dog-power, or the Archimedean lever
would be propelled by “thieves, crimps, and
blacklegs,” or a “withered tarantula ” might per-
spire at the handle; or the motive force might be
supplied by a cow and a dog harnessed together ;
but the moral sense of the community has been
purified and elevated by Freetrade, and the soul
of the nation has been educated and ennobled by
a long and prayerful study of Parkes’s insolvency-
schedules, and consequently this great and free
Southern race has risen in its might like a giant
refreshed by prayer, and has unanimously printed
the Kiama Independent by steam. Other
countries have striven to emulate this result, but
have failed. In some places the editor himself
dies at the pump in his efforts to issue his “hor-
gan ” to an anxious world; in others—such as
Victoria—the degraded daily journals are printed
by spreading the type on the table and laying a
sheet of paper on it, and then piling boulders on
top of the sheet in order to obtain an impression •
and in the primitive land of Queensland the editor
lies down on the blank paper, which is spread
on the floor, and dips each letter separately in
the ink, and then stamps it on the paper, after
which he boils the letter so as to get the dried ink
off it, and starts afresh. The people of N.S. Wales,
however, have long since abandoned these clumsy
unreliable methods of diffusing knowledge,
and the Kiama Independent, as observed once or
twice already, is printed by steam. We used to
imagine that it was printed by p-ayer, but it isn’t.
God bless Parkes ! He is prinued oy gas instead
of steam, but that doesn’t signify much.
*\ * »
According to popular report, Admiral
1) airfax is now busy filling up 18 pounds’ weight
°* printed forms re the case of Captain Wright,
and these elaborate documents, when finished,
will be done up in a watertight keg and despatched
to England. This awful tendency to fill up
printed forms is one of the saddest signs of the
decadence of the once-powerful motherland. If, a
century ago, a British naval officer had been
violently thrown ashore by any colonial poli-
tician a fleet would have been despatched
at once to the scene of actioD, and the
mangied fragments of that colonial politician
would have been blown at the stars, but
these days are past, and in this peaceful nineteenth
century the outraged British navy, in place of
making trouble wi'h its big guns, sits down and
fills m printed forms telling how it was kicked
from behind, and asking the Government what it
is going to do about it. Apparently a supply of
forma stating that the British navy has been
kicked are kept on hand to be ready for any
emergency, and it is only necessary to fill in the
name of the kicker and a report of the amount of
violence which was put into the proceedings, and
then the business is complete. By-and-bye, as
the British nation grows more practical, the supply
of forms will be increased and multiplied, and some
day a far seeing Premier will keep a document on
hand stating that the empire has been busted up,
with a blank space for the name of the foreign power
which has taken over the assets. An increasing
desire to fill in printed forms marks each succeed-
ing stage in the dry rot which is undermining the
Anglo-Saxon race. Cnesar, a gentleman who
made some stir in military circles at one time,
A BRUTAL PARENT.
DAD (loq.): “GAUGE, COME DOWN OUT AV THAT PEACH-THREE AND DAVE
OVER ATING THIM GREEN PACHES, OS OI’LL GIVE viz THE BIGGEST
DOSE A V CASTHOR-OILE YE’VE HAD SINCE YE WAS CRHRISTENED—
SO OI WILL.’ [Collapse of Boy.)
never filled up one in his life, but the Duke of
Cambridge can’t go to a sham-fight without a
w . a f?gon-load of them, and even then the supply
gives out on the second day, and he has
to wire for more. The whole empire, in
fact, is screaming for printed forms to fill
up, and while it is filling 'them up other
races, whose armies fly light in the matter of
stationery, are beginning to crowd them in, and
trouble of various kinds is looming on the horizon,
booner or later every nation is by its
Nemesis; some die fighting, and others perish
quietly in a horizontal attitude, but Britain, when
the hour of destruction arrives, will be found sit-
ting up and filling in an elaborate report, and the
printed form on which its last moments were
exercised will be afterwards discovered among the
rums.
Two small boys have died after a State
school picnic at Gippsland (Vic.), victims of the
pernicious cramming system.
The divine Essie Jenyns is now called
Wood the ugh she was never a stick on the
stage - bhe celebrated her wooden wedding on her
marriage day.
Discussing the “ Women’s Temperanca
Conference, ’ held in Melbourne the other day, the
Age says that woman is soberer than man. Our
contemporary only means that she is more stayed.
A settler near Mt. Rouse (Vic.) claims that
by interbreeding he has produced variations in
the common ass. It is a pity this gentleman dors
nob devote his talents to agriculture. The common
or garden politician is too various already.
MELBOURNE SONG.
(WITH “KILL ALOE ” CHORUS.)
When a very aged gent
Has a pretty bib of money
There is nobhing bo prevenb
His sophisticabed Sonny
From declaring he is mad—
As insane as any habber ;
Rabher rough upon bhe dad,
Bub, of course, ib doesn’t mabber.
Chorus:
You may balk aboub affection,
You may talk aboub connection,
Or any other ection
That suggests itself bo you ;
We always use onaisy
That wide expression “crazy,”
Lest one fine day our boy may say—
“Gooff toKiller-Kew!”
If that gentleman so old,
Having ’cumulated honey,
Doesn’b spend ib as he’s bold,
Then “ Away with him !” says Sonny';
They pop him in a trap,
In a buggy (as we style ’em),
And remove the feeble chap
To a lunatic asylum.
You may balk aboub, &c.
Then in durance very vile
Stays bhe inoffensive father,
While his former domicile
~ Suits his heir-apparent rather;
So that dutiful young man
Spends a pleasant time in spreeing,
And he doesn’t care a d n
For bhe author of his being.
You may talk about, &c.
Bub not for this, indeed,
Do parents rear a babby—
Does the wife and mother feed
Her beloved infant flabby !
’Tis a Bin in Heaven’s sight
For a crawling human adder
The fost’ring hand to bite
Of his poor, decrepit dada.
You may talk about, &c.
Aboriginalities.
Tli3 forced or hot-house variety of fool
sometimes gets down a mine by misrepresenting
the poverty of his intellect and disguising the fat-
ness of his head in a clay smirched hat, and when
he does it is deemed advisable to “ look up below ”
and watch for flying splinters, slips from the
“ hanging-wall, ” and other falling bodies. A few
years back an uncouth chunk of humanity, with
a water-logged head and an expression of absorb-
ing simplicity, struck the boss of a quartz-mine
near Avoca (Vic.) for a job; he described himself
as an old faceman, and, despite the palpable fact
that he had never mined for anything more valu-
able than the floury spud or the succulent onion, he
was ordered to come on with the afternoon shift
and go into the face at No. 2 level. The potato-
expprt was on hand at 4 o’clock, and accompanied
his mate, an experienced “Cousin Jack,” below,
with airy confidence, and during the course of the
half shift the platman was vastly edified by gusts
of violent profanity and other explosions of wrath
in the weird vernacular of an incensed “ICG.”
which re-echoed through the long-drawn aisles,
and were borne to his ears from out the bowels of
the earth. The “Cousin Jack” was having a
high old time with his new mate, who handled a
pick as the proverbial bull is said to grapple with
a musket, and knew as much about the duties of
a facemen as a hog knows of table etiquette. Just
prior to crib-time they put in a shot, started her
going, and the Cornishman left, and had gone 50
yards along the drive before he discovered that his
mate was not following him. Horrified, he drew
his knife and rushed back to the face where the
onion-cultivator was complacently surveying the
smoking fuse. A quick slash severed the fuse
from the charge not one half second too soon, and
then the “K G-,” treated his mate to a display of
his powers as a master of English and foreign pro-
fanity. “Why the blankity, blankity, blue
blankety blazes didn’t ye run ?” he concluded,
pale to the gills. “Run?” replied the Murphy -
miner, cheerfully, “why, I had to blow the
pi aguey thing to keep it alight !”
e • •
An itinerant parson of the Wesleyan per-
suasion struck an extremely way-back locality in
Northern Gippeland the other Sunday, and whilst
heading for a disbant gospel-mill at noonday, he
was shocked bo hear the ring of an axe revert
rating through the forest and waking the echo
of the holy “ Sawbuth,” and presently he rang
his sway-backed, fiddle-headed equine up “fo
ninsb ” a hair-chested child of the wilderness, w
was mounted on a fallen blue-gum, swinging h
five-pounder and pensively whistling “ Killaloe
which air of sin and iniquity had but lately pen
trated the wilds. “My poor brother,” sorrow
fully ejaculated the perambulating gospel-bumme
“do you know what day it is ?” “ Thusde !” w
the laconic reply. “Dear, dear-a-me! are yo
really nob aware that it is the Sabbath ?’’ “ N
but is it, though ?” replied the splitter with an a
of mild surprise. “It is, indeed. Have you n
means of distinguishing the * Loard’s ’ day here
the wilderness ?” “ Well, dunno as I care much
answered the placid woodman. ‘ ‘ When my shir
dirty I alius reckon th’ day uv rest’s about roun
and ” (subjecting that article of raiment to a casua
examination) “ I guess it’ll run a day or tw
longer.” The holy mendicant faced his mule
the west and “Killaloe” once more woke tl
echoes on the hill.
A BROKEN NOSE.
Dear Bulletin, — Th ! s paragraph is aug
gested bo me by the following extract from
daily-
Upon being conveyed to Prince Allred Hospital, th
unfortunate young lady was found to have sustainec
terrible injuries to her nose, mouth, and head. Tl
patient was admitted for treatment.
Broken noses are of two kinds, male and femal
The former possesses the peculiarity of rendering
its owner a blackguard in appearance and a sut
pect to the police. I have only known one ma
whom I pibied for bis bashed conk; and this
how he got it. Years ago he was goivg upstair
in the Cow and Mug Hotel, in Melbourne, when
man, name unknown, knocked him down with
blow (and it must have been a terrible hit) from
porter-bottle. Eor 10 days my friend was in
sensible. He woke up to find himself in goo
comfortable lodgings, board paid for a month
ditto doctor’s fees and £5O solatium. But— anc
such a but— the bridge of his nose was under hi
left eye, and is so until this day. The Melbourn
sawboneses were not very skilful in plastic opera
tions in those days. Note here : I will not figh
on any terms with a broken-nosed man ; becaus
he has me handicapped—l can’t spoil his beauty
Mark also : There is a young larrikin on the Mur
rumbidgee who poses as a bruiser, but whose sol
claim bo the position is that he was struck on th
beak by a bullock-yoke and shows the mark
I now come to the more interesting portion of my
theme. Strariga to say, a broken-nose does no*
spoil the beauty of a good-looking girl. But
hag with a disordered nasal feature is the abomin
able thing which my soul hateth. There is
Potts Pointer whose luck it was to get a buste
from her hunter, and smash her physog. a little
When the cicatrices were healed, and the refines
of the sores had disappeared, there remained
piquancy of expression which did not exist before
1 knew the lady in Glasgow (by sight), and sh
knew me when she met me in George-street, bu
it was cnly after three hot Scotches with that
called her once familiar figure and face to mind
I cnce saw a lady’s broken nose bashed straigh
by a second smash from a horse. She also tac
her legs broken. It was a run-away froir
Hyde Park co ner down Piccadilly, ending at
lamp post. I don’t advise Sydney belles (includ
ing Miss Sappho Smith) purposely to fracture
their figureheads, but if there is any comfort in
my remarks they need not weep over a damaget
jib. I don’t see why a broken nose should no
become as fashionable as the Alexandra limp
The nicest girl I ever knew in my life was lame
and had a twisted mouth The intensity of her
kisses at the left-hand corner was something
miraculous— Scotty the Wrinklee.
* * *
Dear Bulletin,—As usual, the soi disant
“ mo3t popular’’and scientific cockroach shows
what he does not know. Read:—
Nay, more than this, the local time would be fixed now
if it were not that there is the utmost difficulty in ascer-
taining the precise geographical position of every town-
ship in the colony. It would be a matter of enormous
expense and trouble to ascertain this simple fact.
Hark’ye, dear boy ! Would the time, if fixed
within a second, be near enough ? If so, learn
that there are licemed, staff, and district surveyors
whose assistants, when not absolutely overcome
by she-oak, can do all that is wanted at what you
may consider “ enormous expense,” say a “ bob ’
rr two. Of course we know that neither you nor
any of your staff can do it because your whole
time, appears to be spent in contemplating and
admiring the glory and magnificence of Benniker
Beaten and the Whitechapel murders. Stick to
your children’s columns and the dinners you are
allowed to assimilate, but don’t let up on yourself
until you know that the zenith distance plus or
minus the declination equals the latitude.—
Scotty the Wrinkler.
* * *
Michael O’Grady, of Croydon (Q.), last;
week placed a piece of dynamite in his mouth and
blew his head off. He is about the fourth gay
Northern man who, during the last few years, has
thus terminated his life. However, it is not often
one hears of anybody with a name like O’Grady
dynamiting himself out of existence. He usually
dynamites some other fellow. This incident
should convince the Tory Government that the
Irish in “ ouah kawlonies ” are not so utterly un-
regenerate as the indigenous Paddy.
* * *
Apropos of big firea and speed in meeting
the demands of the occasion, the following beats
a much-talked-of piece of Sydney enterprise.
Ambrose Madden’s store in Cooktown (Q.) took
fire a short time back, and while it blazed the
proprietor gave orders to have another store built.
Not only that, but within an hour of the starting
of the fire, hammers were heard working at the
erection of the new premises. On Saturday morn-
ing the old store was burned down and on the
Monday morning following Ambrose was stand-
ing behind the counter of the new one, ready to
accommodate his host of customers. Both stores
were large, and as groceries as well as drapery
formed the stock-in-trade the shelving, counters,
and other fixtures were considerable.
• • *
Here is a tragic incident of the big drought
of 10 years ago. A Lachlan River squatter was
travelling his sheep for water. One evening the
sheep gained a watering place of other seasons,
but this year it was dried up. The sheep had
now been three days without water and the thirst
had already staggered several score of them. They
fell down exhausted and dying. This was the
straw which broke the reason of the owner. He
quietly dragged the paralysed sheep into a circle
and cut their throats ; then in a fearful frenzy he
placed himself in the centre of the expiring group
and cut his own thrpat.
THE PINK-A-PUNK PIANO.
What makes our Southern ladies lean ?
What makes them wash their hands so clean ?
What makes us wish they ne’er had been ?
But the pink-a-punk piano !
What mak"s them quite unfit to marry
A working man like Dick or Harry ?
So long in spinster-life to tarry—-
But the pink-a-punk piano !
Tis our “ sassiety ” that drives
Our youthful maids to useless lives,
Its highest aims to steer the “ fives ”
On the pink-a punk piano.
Why should fair maidens in their prime,
In this our music-stricken clime,
So uselessly employ their time
On the pink-a-punk piano ?
Why don’t they help the servant lass
To sweep the rooms and scour the brass,
And not the neighbours all harass
With the pink-a-punk piano ?
Why don’t they learn to cook and mend,
Just a little help to Bridget lend —
It would be better in the end
Than the pink a-punk piano.
BOBAHDEBOWSTER.


announcement. Highest Cash Irlce
for all S of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
g sfiftssrwsrsssrffl
ssj&ififfiSBS*
High Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLE MONT
ft CO., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high.
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Carington
“By Appointment.”
iokbh.v stamps i or roi. lections ; Our
new price list can be obtained on application.
Selections of stamps sent on approval to respon-
sible parties. 100 choice Foreign stamps, all dif-
ferent, POST FREE 2s. Bd. Send unused stamps
of any colony. <3T Old collections purchased.
D. A. yiSPra CO., Box 660, General Post
Office, S¥PME¥.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest! best Snow-whits
Pathnt Holi.sb Foonm, It is the greatest eracoese of the
Mte.
JOHN M'EWAN & GO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
46-page Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &o.
35-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed List of Businesses for Sale issued Baity.
All Lists posted F ret on application,
POLITICAL
POINTS
The A.N.A. hold a conference at Sydney
on 26bh January.
According to Government statist Coghlan
N.S.W. is worth £568,530,000.
Victoria is increasing the salary of its
Chief Railway Commissioner by £lOOO.
Her Majesty’s Opposition in Victoria
seems to have gone bung with the land-boom.
“A.N.A." Parves, Q.C., is mentioned as
a candidate for the next Victorian Parliament.
Queensland, following the example of
N.S.W. and Victoria, is sending to England for a
railway man
It is stated that the vacant N.Z. Supreme
Court judgeship was offered to Sir Robert Stout
bub was declined.
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen pertinently remarks
that he never heard that Sir Henry Parkes had an
Irish axe to’grind.
Judge Docker (N.S.W.) has jaet sentenced
a young man to 10 years imprisonment for a
forgery involving the sum of 30,s
It is rumoured that Premier Gillies thinks
of fathering a bill to change the name of his
colony from Victoria to “ Hingland.”
The S.M. Herald calls the N.S.W. un-
employed “ surplus labourers.” The local Star
says that “ deficit labourer ” is the word.
The new Under-Secretary, for Mines in
Queensland is named Glen Cameron. And yet
they say the Northern colony is ruled by rebel
Irish.
A recent number of the London Times
had no fewer than 39 columns of Irish news In-
cluded in this, we presume, there were at least 38J
columns of lies.
Said the O’Sullivan, M.P. (N.S.W.),
during the course of the debate on a certain
sewerage scheme “ Mr. Speaker, I shall stand
by the sewerage !” De gustibus, &c.
The doctrine of Anarchy will make little
headway until it is preached under another name.
Why don’t the Anarchists call themselves Indi-
vidualists, as, in point of fact, they are ?
The groundwork that supports the statue
of Her Gracious in Melbourne Parliament House
has been found to be insecure. The man who
erected that effigy meant it to be realistic.
Angus Cameron’s motion to the effect that
no Government pensioner shall be allowed to enter
the NSW. Parliament appears to be aimed at
ex-Commissioner Goodchap in the interest of the
Parkes party.
Amongst the members of the N.S.W.
Upper House are three pensioners-Sir Alfred
Stephen, Sir William Manning, and Mr. Peter
Eawcettj all retired judges-drawing a total an-
nual sum of £4690.
Mr W. E. Abbott, one of the N.S.W
Commissioners at Melbourne Exhibition, has
returned his free pass ,(ye gods !) on the ground
that the numbsr of official dead-heads attached to
the show has become a public scandal.
Mr Jeanneret, the N.S.W. member of
Parliament who was recently stuck up by two
footpads in Glasgow, has written to Mr. C.
Garland assuring him that at the time of the
attempted robbery he was perfectly sober. Who
said he wasn’t? .
A bear has earned some notoriety in Auck-
land N Z., by his habit of drinking beer out of
newter - measures whenever opportunity offers.
There’s trouble bruin for this poor animal; he is
coming to Australia to find his little caper worked
dry by the local politicians.
Dibbs thinks that Mr, G. H. Reid, the
NSW Parliamentary aposble of Freetrade, has
a lah di dah style about him.” There is some
excuse Mr. Reid is a bachelor, a lawyer, and a
membah, and if dressed in petticoats might pass
for a good-looking matronly lady.
Inglis who administers Instruction to New
South Wales, hopes the day will soon come “ when
Parliament will be a nobler and better place than
itls to-day. ” Considering where Mr. Inglis will
then be that is a signally self-denying hope.
Perhaps he intends to enter the church.
Colonel Price, organiser and chief man in
buckram of the Victorian Mounted Rifles, is
thinking of retiring from the war business. A
Mounted Rifle, with ’em all on, was one of the
most'fearful and wonderful of the many thmgs
encountered by Phil. May when he had no chance
of taking a shot. ,
“During the Prince of Wales s recent
visit to Bucharest, some novel charades, terminating
with an allegorical scene representing the royal
visitor were given by numerous local aristocrats.
We can picture that “allegorical scene an
morSu. butt supported by u pov.rty-ste.ckeu
peasant and surmounted by a cabbage.
The Marquis of Hartlngton, though head
of the “Liberal-Unionists,” persists in sitting on
the front Opposition benches, instead of taking
hit mouer Place among the Tones. Old-man
Gladstone is, therefore, when he rises to curse
Ulaastonei , anathemas all round the
SS and put Sm to roost at his own right
“Before it was settled that Sir Thomas
Fsmonde would be one of the Home Rule delegates
£ CtralTa a writerin the Sydney Freeman’s
TouiNM prayed that that patriot might be sent
The wdter argued that there is a section of the
Ihe wriier g_ , puion nor Davitt could
affelt C but which a man with a titular distinction
could’successfully manage. .
A lady statistician has discovered that m
the United Kingdom women are o ,°oo in excess
of men; in Germany there are 1,000,000. In
France in 1881 there were only 92,000 surplus
women, and, as a result, marriages are more pre-
valent in proportion to population there than else-
where ; while, surprising as it sounds, France has
the lowest percentage of illegitimate births.
It is generally understood in a wide
Queensland circle that Sir Samuel Griffith looks
forward to being appointed Chief Justice on the
approaching retirement of the festive Sir Charles
Lilley, who, having made plenty of money, longs
to live in London. Griffith would make a good
judge, but he is not sufficiently human to be an
ideal Chief Justice. His blcodlessness has ia
politics made him a good lawyer but a bad states-
man.
Premier Parkes now apologetically ex-
plains that he personally never cared much about
“ annexing” the name of Australia and giving it
to N S.W., bub he “ was .prevailed upon to make
the proposal because of the Bupport the idea had
received from leading public men, including Sir
Alfred Stephen and Sir John Robertson.” Thus
does the grand old man wash his own hands of a
political burglary and fling the dirty water in the
faces of his friends.
The Earl of Hard wicke (a brother of Eiiot
Yorke), who is prospecting for an Australian Go-
vernorship, is financially the Earl of Hardup No
“ nobleman ” who is not monetarily on a lee shore,
or otherwise in a tight place, ever dreams of leav-
ing Hingland and the society of duchesses in
order that he may come to Australia and smile on
dames whose hands have been hardened by clutch-
ing the portergaff-eDgine in the pub. Lord Hard-
wicke, who is 52 years old, is an ex-military man
and sartorially a great swell.
An Irishman determined upon evading
his creditors and hit upon the idea of burning all
the bills they sent him. “ Bed »d,” he said, “I
haven’t a bill to pay.” “ Bub,” objected his son
and heir, “ they’ll be afther sandin’ the bills again,
I’m thinkin’.” “An’ haven’t I the foire left to
burn ’em all ? Bedad, Mike, I’ll lave you the
GULL METEOROLOGY.
NEW CHUM: “CAN YOU TELL ME, MY GOOD FELLAH, WHAT THE 'MOMETAH
REGISTERS IN THE SHADE TO-DAY?”
NORTH TERRITORIAN: “THERE AIN’T NO SHADE AT ALL IN THE GULF
COUNTRY, MISTER,”
surplus in my will an’ the ashes in the bargain,
an’ it’s moighby rich ye’ll be.” New South Wales
has her public debt, of course, but ib “ Burns,
and the bills are not paid because the Treasurer
is determined to leave the aslus as a legacy to the
next Government
Says Jos. Symes in the Liberator :
“ The two northern colonies swarm with Repub-
licans ; in Victoria a Republican hardly dares
show his head, If he opens his mouth, he is
hooted down, gagged, persecuted, calumniated,
denounced in pulpit and press, and treated to ab-
solute injustice in the law courts. _ . . . Vic-
toria has no politics, no statesmen ; it is ruled by
the purse and old-fashioned cant. Politically
speaking, she is like the church at Sardis, dead as
a sbone, although impudently pretending to live ;
and the newspapers keep a perpetual wake around
the carcase.”
Oa Sir Thomas M‘ll wraith’s list of persons
ineligible for the position of Governor of Queens-
land stands the name of Sir John Pope Hennessy.
This list was in the hands of Lord Knutsford be-
fore the trouble about Blake arose, and if tho
names therein had been disclosed the Times and
other papers and persons who charge Sir Thomas
with having played into the hands of the Irish
faction would have found they were on the wrong
scent. The list was unfortunately marked con-
fidential,” and Lord Knutsford himself was de-
barred from making public use of it, and thus
“ Irishism ” has received a position in the contro-
versy to which it had nbt the slightest claim.
The Yictorian Legislative Assembly has,
by 59 votes to 3, rejected Baronet O’Loghlen’s
motion approving of Queensland's assertion of the
colonies’ right to be consulted in regard to the
selection of Imperial Governors. In the N.S.W.
Assembly, on the other hand, the action of
(Queensland was, on the motion of the Premier,
approved of by 45 votes to 2—the minority repre-
senting men who were prepared to go even further
than Queensland or Premier Parkes in the direc-
tion of Separation ! It is thus evident that what-
ever the N.S.W. Government proposes the Vic-
torian Government will oppose, and vice versa.
In a word, so far as the politicians of the' two
colonies, as distinguished from the people, are
concerned, civil war looks quite as near as federa-
tion.
Here are the particulars of a bon mot of
the N.S.W. Parliament of the early sixties when
Sir John Robertson (then plain Mister) was a
leading light of colonial political life. The Govern-
ment, so the story goes, were accused of haying
used corruption to carry out their policy,
and a quick-witted country member rose in his
place and said : “ Mr. Speaker, it is not to be
wondered that the colony is going to the devil
when a. Minister is employed to corrupt everybody
to obtain votes” “Who is it?” “Name!” rose
angrily from all parts of the House. “No, Mr.
Speaker, I will not name the Minister, but I could,
Mr. Speaker, as soon as you could say Jack
Robertson.” In the burst of laughter that
followed this sally the “ unparliamentary ” remark
was allowed to pass.
Hon. John Douglas, ex-High Commis-
sioner for New Guinea, is once.more a Queensland
police-magistrate. It is contrary to the custom
of the Colonial Office to let a man who has been
once in the service “lapse” into an outside posi-
tion. In the ordinary course of things Douglas
should have been promoted to the Governorship
of a Crown colony, as his conducb in New (luinea
proved that he was an eminently “safe” man.
The Colonial Office was, it is understood, willing
to entertain a claim on behalf of Mr. Douglas’s
promotion, but the doors of the institution were
liberally rushed by persons of “rank,” or their
allies, in England. Consequently he had to
be, contrary oo an old custom, “ jacked.”
Mr. Douglas may, at a future date, be requested
to resume the duties of Administrator of New
Guinea, and if this happen his friends urge him
to make stipulations the effect of which will be
to prevent such a “ lapse” as the present.
“James Dunne, an old man of eighty
years of age, who was evicted on Captain Single-
ton's estate, country Louth, in the early part of
Thursday week, breathed his last the same evening.
When the sheriff came to evict him with Messrs,
Dudgoon and Emerson, and the emergency men
and police, he declared that he had paid rent for
sixty years, but was now utterly unable to meet
the landlord’s claims. He was suffering from
bronchitis, and presented a miserable spectacle as
he crouched before the kitchen fire. He warned
the evictors if the process of the law was carried
out it would result in bis death. Despite his
entreaties, he was put out upon the roadside, and
left-sitting on a stool in the midst of his broken
furniture. When the evictors left, a passer-by
heard the old man exclaim, ‘ Emerson, Emerson,
get me the poorhouse van, for God’s sake ! I
have not a half hour to live !’ He was moved to
a barn at hand by some friends, and about nine
o’clock expired.”— One of the reasons why the
Australian Democracy should help Parnell
against the Times.
Personal Items.
The authoress of “ Robert Elsmere," tha
novel of the season, is an Australian.
Premier M‘II wraith’s health is such as to
cause the gravest apprehensions to his friends.
Cardinal Moran, although personally a
teetotaller, provides wine at his table for his
guests.
General Salam on, the c oloured ex-President
of Hayti, was a colossus in size, being nearly "ft. in
height, whilst he is proportionately broad and
massive in build.
Stutt, the Melbourne politician, weighs
21st., and proudly boasts that he is a self-made
man. Self-manufacture is a very good thing, but
one can overdo it
The Bulletin approves of the translation
of Sir Henry Norman from Jamaica to ( Queens-
land. Bananaland has long sadly needed the ser-
vices of an expert in rum.
M. Chevreul’s celebration of his one hun-
dred and second birthday developed the fact that
he and M. Renoudin, a Waterloo soldier, aged
104, have never used tobacco.
Sir Julius Vogel looks forward to a time
when debtors unable to pay will have their names
posted on the court door. He does not say what
sized door the Sydney court will require. (
“ Lord ” Knutsford and his son have been
thrown out of their carriage. - As, however,
Knutsford landed on his head, he escaped unhurt.
This is an ancient wheeze, bub it fits every time.
Hon. George ThorntoD, M.L.C. (N.S.W.),
was Mayor of Sydney 38 years ago. Mr. Thorn-
ton is generally understood to have been spokes-
man of the deputation which welcomed Captain
Cook to Port J ackson.
The London press refers in eulogistic
berms to the ability of Governor Norman, 6f
(Queensland. Norman ought to be able to govern,
and he ought to be a strong Home Ruler : he has
been married three times.
The name of Sir Arthur Palmer’s aide is
D. A. M‘Neill, and those who know the (Queens-
land ActiiDg-Governor’s powers of “ langwidge”
perceive a suggestion of profanity in the initial;,
which they consider a singular and happy coinci-
dence.
The other day, in a church at Leith, a
madman rose and gave vent to the following
astounding statement; “Prince Albert Victor iu
my Lord, God, and King. Amen.” We con-
gratulate our Prince on having obtained one honest
and outspoken admirer.
The Czarina of Russia is said to be suffer-
ing from melancholia, brought on by dynamite ex-
plosions and other perils incidental to the lofty
station to which it has pleased Providence to call
her. Her sister, the Duchess of Cumberland,
went crazy because her husband’s claim to be
King of Hanover was quashed. There is no
pleasing the ladies, anyhow.
When the late Mr. Dailey’s success as a
criminal advocate was at its climax, he was very
careful not to engage himself on any unimportant
case. No fee would induce him to depart from
this rule. One day he received a telegram from a
well known Bathurst (N.S.W.) attorney, asking
if he would accept a brief in a case of assault and
battery “ with intent.” The lawyer received this
immediate reply : —“ Many thanks ; but must
decline brief as prisoner failed to kill his man.”
The poem lately written by Premier Parkes
“to a Beautiful Friendless Child ” whom he has
kindly taken in hand, appears in the Australian
Centennial Mao azinf, for December. Here is a
slab of ib :
Thy part shall be to lead, to guide,
To breast and brave the storm ;
To win thyself a name of pride,
Child of the ohief-like form !
A handsome child whose future is predicted in
poetry—-especially such poetry ! —generally turns
out in late life to be a shopwalker with mutton-
chop whiskers or the presiding god of a ham-and-
beef shop.
There is a wildly improbable rumour in
Brisbane that the remains of Sir Anthony Mus-
grave were not interred there, but are now on
board the Jumna en route to England with Lady
Muegrave, and that the public funeral which lately
took place was really only over Sir Anthony’s
effigy. It is true the pall-bearers on that occasion
remarked how light the coffin was. Lady Brassey,
although she died near land, was buried at sea ;
and, taking sailors’ superstitions into account, we
(says a Brisbane paper) can hardly think the
Jumna carries Sir Anthony’s remains to England.
The story is worth noting.
The South Australian Upper House is
giving way to the demoralising tendencies of the
age, and is fast departing from the Scriptural lan-
guage of its forefathers. The other evening an
inquiring member asked for a return showing all
the properties held by members of the Council,
and he also wanted to know how they got them,
and what had become of the people who used to
have them; but a judicious member stifled him
before he had time to explain all he was in search
of. Then another legislator moved that a return
should be printed showing what members had
lately been insolvent or had made assignments,
and also where they planted their property before
they filed, and several senators turned red, and
swore in husky, subterranean accents, and others
shuffled uneasily with their feet, and one or two
fled wildly through the open door. At this stage
a long, thoughtful person rose, and moved that a
Government return should be prepared showing
the morals of each councillor —but here a sudden
storm got up, and the assembled audience
pounded the floor with its heavily-shod hoofs, and
finally a man possessed of great presents of mind
drew the attention of the House to the need for
another policeman at Podge’s Crossing, and the
previous subject was dropped.


PROVIDENCE and 'JEFFERIS.
“The Rev. Dr. Jefferis was to have held a service of prayer for rain in the Pitt-street Congregational Church yesterday morning, but owing to the welcome rainfall at
the latter end of the week a service of praise was held instead.”— Daily Paper.
PASTOR JEFFERIS who has been caught out without his gamp): “NOW, I CALL THIS PRECIOUS INCONSIDERATE ON THE PART OF PROVIDENCE, TO TAKE
MATTERS IN HAND LIKE THIS. I SHALL NOW HAVE TO RE-WRITE MY SERMON, AND GET UP A NEW LOT OF PRAYERS,”


'ZsLrtgore represent <?wa>;7«/7/ 7
<§>? e " / '«;/ fitiarafiseP
Iffl
j/Q\Jou fra Sc t)o(
// Ax ryonjcy f
/ /osc
> ecL/ca Z 7 ccc/if'fr or
—■>4« To
S ee f e C ‘ ,,b
y 7^e
OaurC a. ctefaA /
' 3rS
'kl 0 re 'Our V's-
- yl> e? 6 '-%?$ €
\ 'matf Sfcayer r df>'"? >
utynyy " hvujyd /or
' Jr )f~Al<z/> f/ ft'/ ' /
sJyyi, n •r-Tf/’/tyff
irejenf/y " jv _
( r~\
= ; =||C ~
' 5
fnJlrrtpF'Z
YluforTo (pM° ar ? }
*soulte,£ S^ f _
ioo cct cup ,
\ri <J) oj 7*7 * : rVu rr'oi
fan ,C. Lr ferret* 7 Saifi rtje r/«
/ je^cux -j y fzr j K
• &&&*?*?*
f'^^rpSOj
r/ r j/- ra / 7}e.
Source, *7 "Zf^ 4/°* A Lea* <t of * <d/r '~
V a £ u,^ 6/e /»«*,
7 ■y-'r? ™
C '‘
nirn <sr.
11'”' . y.-
r, 1*
t- u f'%7cduL />L - m*.
***•-9**“'
T/ernr iff'*# skM
M i T t7?JPP r ° ie “ y
“'t'/fP *&'**?■
•»* Mr, %Z
b7f ’eccct'ifp. X y
Our- "P/stfAi- AM Co. Os u/> a %
Q/L/./£rs s2sce/-7cc/f? ef-y>OS5 /60.
yte-tiS uy>op flfje- fee '/eere~
/ ,*. Tfe &>&'?s/fasTFa fa?
fo/>u6/>,c,. jLx/rressecc ef /5
't-Oe. ids Oy cfotc/epy jf/S 7^/s/Os rf <i c/oor
ilMp/ J|l jilt*}*'
sfcb#<
■/-ant.Locfy faf
ty & yarn t,
UayeAratJee*:,
1 1 1 1$abiesiin
| Pjetbourf/e.
I v. 6u.fa.ldn
' Hi,'
/V, *7p\T|\
r>& ™
~y '^l
4MS~vi */be£&4 "Cf V r* 9 ***sM*> r
fofe & <Lapa& 7Z«s'i> ferfcay y
' 7fe. atjf "? •><"?* ate e,y c «/ .
’"' <a_ 7%'a.Y' ■fyo 'syc<y<zy &?c£y Cc)ou./c{ Sccon?// o
i
rfa/r rsfru/’J
V/fltt a 7ty \ | :
f# cSec, L?f «>"**. e ZI,-/'
'Jufilc p*^eauipv/yterf
Our Dismal Man in Melbourne.


Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson's Patbntbd Arti
pioaii Ear Drums. Cureß Deafness In all its stages. The
most astonishing cures have been effeoted. Send for 132
paged illustrated book containing "Essay on Deafness,'
illustrations of the Drums, ooples of patent papers, letters
from Dootors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
•wed by these Drums, and who recommend them.—Dr
NICHOLSON, 08 Wilmam Btrs«t, Melbourne.
SWEET KOROMA, the New Perfume. Manu
factured from th West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia." Sold Everywhere. Price, 3s. 6d.,
55., and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-st., East,
MEEBOIiBXE.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilc-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B. —Only two hours from Melbourne.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOR
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the followin ]
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, whioh oannot be ex
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con*
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work*
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OE
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W.H.PALINSftGO-,M,
86# GEORG* STREET, two dotm r.<3J
Society
Boll[?]
[?]
Referring to the marriage of Miss Easie
Jenyns a writer in a Sydney daily gets rid of the
following ambiguous sentence :
If she succeeds in pleasing her husband as well as she
has pleased the general public by her interpretation of the
works of the noble bard, he will be one of the most
enviable of mortals.
The writer seems to imagine that the lucky Mr.
Wood has married the fair and accomplished
actress in order to have a Shakespearian revival,
after the manner of the mad king of Bavaria—all
to himself.
* •
Mr. Wood, the fortunate wco;r of Miss
Jenyns, is, we are told, the fortunate possessor of
an income somewhere between
£lO,OOO and £15,000 a year.
• * *
Sir A. Masgrave’s death
has lost Baden - Powell to
Queensland. This priceless swell
was aidy-kong to the late Go-
vernor, and was nearly as fine a
show as a wax-works or the
Fish River caves. When re-
quired to take a message to the
Ouse he had a way of putting on
a sabretasche and spurs and gold
lace (he was in the “Gawds,”
you know), not to speak of frill,
jam, marmalade and other con-
fectionery, which caused legis-
lators to cuss out loud and do
other things not found in eti-
quette-books. The young man
who performs odd jobs for Sir
Arthur Palmer, the acting Go-
vernor, being only a colonial
and an officer in the local corps
of Mounted Infantry, stalks up
the chamber in an unpretending
fashion, wearing the picturesque
and national uniform of his
corps. The first time his sol-
dierly figure appeared the
National members intimated by
a cordial little cheer their appre-
ciation of the change from
Baden-Powell’s display of shoul-
der-strap Imperialism.
* • *
For slavish and servile
imitation, the colonies are well
to the fore, and in no way is this
more apparent than in matters
nomenclatural. In Sydney there
is a Bayswater-road, a Bond-
street, an Oxford-street, a Re-
gent-street, and a Hyde Park.
In the suburbs, Balmoral,
Birkenhead, Canterbury, Croy-
don, Darlington, Mortlake, Pad-
dington, Putney, Ryde, San-
dringham, and St. Leonards,
suggest the old world. The
Daily Telegraph, the Echo,
the Referee, the Sporting
Life, the Sunday Times, were
well known in London long be-
fore their namesakes were thrust
upon the Sydney public. A
similar remark applies to the
names of many of the theatres
and places of amusement. A gr eat proport ion of our
counties and country towns shine under borrowed
plumes. The last new yacht is christened the
“Volunteer,” a name which should have been left
sacred to New York. As for racehorses, the
names of old-world celebrities brought into requi-
sition, from Eclipse downwards, are legion. No
sooner is the result of this year’s English Derby
cabled over, than a third-rate hurdle-racer is re-
named Ayrshire! -
• *
It is believed that several of the largest
landed proprietors in Melbourne never were so
awfully landed before. They know a bank
whereon a wild time grows (Shakespeare).
* * •
Judge Williams stated in a Melbourne
court, the other day, that “ his experience had
taught him that it was next to impossible to get
juries to convict pretty female prisoners.” And
how easy it is to get an ugly man convicted !
Justice is partially blind, and a wink is as good as
a nod to a blind jury.
• * •
A CONCEIT.
The wind is a washerwoman :
Her washtub is the sea ;
She rose up Monday morning,
And early to work went she.
She beat the waves till they foamed and boiled,
She scrubbed with hearty will,
And here in the bay’s blue water
Her white soapsuds float still.
She lifted out her dripping clothes,
And left in the sun to dry
A line of snow-white cloudlets
Hanging across the sky.
— N.Y. Paper.
* *
Haring the voyage of the S. S. Rimutaka
from London to Hobart, a lady passenger fell
overboard in a heavy sea, but was rescued by a
fellow-passenger, Frederick Cavill, the well-known
English swimmer (now paymaster of theN.S.W.
Artillery) Mr. Cavill, who was over 20 minutes
in the water ere he and the lady were picked up
bv the ship’s boats, already holds three gold
medals from the Royal Humane Society, and it is
likely that someone will now be called upon at an
early date to pin upon his manly breast a fourth.
To have deliberately left the safety of a ship in
open ocean under such circumstances is one of the
most gallant actions on record, and the bravery of
such a deed is in no way discounted by the hero of
the occasion being an accomplished and confident
swimmer, for it is only such men as Cavill who
know to the full the difficulty and danger of an
undertaking of the kind.
* # •
George Coppin, comedian and M.P., has
drawn attention in the Victorian Legislative
Assembly to the scarcity of female domestic ser-
vants. There’s not another old woman in the country
who, for the last 20 years, hasn’t been calling at-
tention to the very same thiDg. One of the many
reasons that people can’t get domestic servants is
that the former firm of Coppin, Harwood,
Greville and Stewart used to exhibit on the stage
a number of knock-kneed females, chastely at-
tired in tights, who would have been more profit-
ably employed, both as regards themselves and
the public, in pounding clothes with a copper-
stick. The survival, among so large a percentage
of the Bridgets of the land, of an infatuation for
appearing in public in burlesque costume now
enables Miss Mary Muldoon to get 19s. a week and
wear a sky-blue hat with a red feather.
It is related that a British snobess wrote
to the head master of a London school: “Sir, I
am thinking of placing my boy at your school, but
must first ask if you are particular as to the social
A JUDGE OE HORSEFLESH.
COUSIN (from "home"): “BY JAWE, WHAT A SPLENDID TROTTER THIS IS!”
YOUNG LADY: “O, YES, PA BOUGHT HIM IN MELBOURNE AT CUP-TIME. YOU KNOW HE IS NOT A BAD
JUDGE OF HORSEFLESH.”
COUSIN: “OF CAWSE NOT-WHY, HE KEPT A CAT’S-MEAT SHOP IN WHITECHAPEL BEFOAH HE CAME
OUT HEAH.”
position of your scholars,” The headmaster
replied : “ Madam, so long as the fees are paid
regularly and your son conforms to the regulations
of the school, no questions will be asked as to his
social position or antecedents.”
* * •
From Warrnambool (Vic.) Standard of
15th November :
Women's Christian Temperance Union. —At the open-
ing of the Women’s Christian Temperance Union this
morning, Mrs. G. P. Barber, of Warrnambool, responded
to the address of welcome to visitors from the country.
It was suggested that the Conference should petition the
Queen to prohibit the use of strong drink at her table.
There now! Who says that women— and, above all,
pious women—are not humorists ! All this is very
rough on her Gracious, especially when one comes
to remember that a leading firm of Sydney
caterers announces on its wine-list that a particular
brand of fizz is “extensively patronised by her
Majesty the Queen.”
• ©
Pocket-picking is becoming a not unfre-
quent occurrence in Melbourne churches. The
plate has lost its efficacy.
• « «
An Auckland pastry-cook has bequeathed
£5OOO towards the foundation of an orphan asylum.
Remorae.
• *»
A young man has been found dead in a
smoking-carriage on the Elsternwick (Vic.) line.
The Commissioners should make somje provision
to enable passengers to escape from the bad-cigar
fiend so common on railways.
• * *
One of the happiest men in London is a
stage-door keeper who found recently a pocket-
book containing very compromising papers and a
few sovereigns. When-he called on the lady to
return the pocket-book and contents, she presented
him with £lOO, saying, “Whenever you are in
need, come to me.”
„ «* * ♦
A Melican man has numbered his children
“One,” “Two,” “Three,” and “Four,” instead
of naming them.
• * •
In answer to a correspondent we have to
state that the City Club is a place where the Syd-
ney White Waistcoat party meet daily at lunch,
for the purpose of concealing the greater part of a
turkey apiece.
* • #
The Jubilee bustle which played “God Save
the Queen,’’when the fair wearer sat down on it, has
been swallowed by a “ body-heater ” which the
inventor has just presented to her Gracious. It
is a small affair consisting of a copper boiler
balanced so as to be always in a vertical position,
and is heated by a lamp, the hot water circulating
through india-iubber tubes which run down the
legs, around the ankles, up around the back, and
back to the boiler. A safety-valve for steam flows
off at the back of the wearer’s neck. When it
arrived at Balmoral, great consternation was
occasioned, through the belief that it was an in-
fernal-machine.
• m
A benedict has been fined for assaulting a
photographer at Adelaide. Defendant and his
bride went to be photographed on the morning
after their marriage, and—well, we suppose the
artist asked him to look pleasant.
A Victorian woman who has been arrested
for bigamy excuses herself with the plea that her
first husband was a dwarf.
* •
A Melbourne man has applied for a patent
for a “cask tilter,” an ingenious contrivance for
gradually canting barrels of beer as they are
emptied. This is a magnificent labour-saving ap-
pliance. Show us the deacon who has not ex-
perienced the inconvenience of drawing it off in
pints ?
• • •
’TIS WHISPERED.
’Tis whispered on the mountain high,
’Tis whispered on the shore,
’Tis whispered where the shadows lie
Beside the cottage door.
’Tis whispered when the lowing kine
Have reached the pasture bars,
’Tis. Whispered in the scented lane,
Beneath the silent stars.
Full often at the garden gate,
Where lovers bill and coo,
’Tis whispered when the hour is late
And when ’tis early, too.
’Tis whispered on the flowery leas
Where wanton zephyrs play,
The simple sentence, “Henry, please,
Do take away !”
—Boston Coubieh.
* * *
Judging by recent letters on that all-lm-
portant question, “ Why don’t the men propose ?_ ’
the chief objection to the modern female is
based on the supposition that she doesn’t cook.
When these juvenile scribes know the modern
female as well as we do, they’ll object to her chiefly
because she does cook.
• • *
A man appeared before the Melbourne
court, the other day, in consequence of having de-
molished with an axe every article of furniture
his home contained. Accused said that his wife
was a bad lot, and he had been advised to break
up his home. Dismissed.
• '* *
Laconic ad. from a Melbourne daily :
“ Wanted—a wife. Apply, H.G., Carlton Post-
office, stating particulars.”
' #
The decomposed body of a aervant-girl has
b’en found lying in an outhouse, on the premises
of Mr. G. B. W. Lewis, formerly of the Melbourne
Bijou Theatre. The poor creature had breathed
her final on a pile of old scenery, and when the
inevitable constable arrived at the ghastly scene,
“he found the body lying on its back with the
hands crossed over its breast, and the bodice of
the merino dress which the girl had worn when
she was last seen, torn as if in great agony.”
.From this Argus extract we gather that the suffer-
ings of the merino dress must have been truly
awful. Altogether it is a theatrical item.
• •
A pair of exceedingly large Blucher boots
were found on the rifled premises of a Melbourne
pastrycook the morning after the burglary. This
appears like an artful plot to cast suspicion upon
that noble body of men, the Victorian police.
• • •
A “stricken” husband advertises for the
whereabouts of his wife, in -Melbourne Herald.
We presume “stricken husband” wants to be
sure where the old girl is so that he can go some-
where else.
* 9
A South Melbourne couple on retiring to
their bedroom, the other night, found the window
open, and a large, dirty inebriate asleep in their
bed, with his boots on. When shook up he opened
his eyes and observed hospitably, as he moved
over : “ Losh er room (Me !) sha big bed ! ”
* * •
The water-rate has been reduced to six-
pence in Victoria This is considered in political
circles to be a bold bid, on the part of the expir-
ing Ministry, for the milkman’s vote.
* * *
“ Come back to Erin ” is the ballad we
generally sing to our deaf Tottie.
• * *
“You will write to me
every day ?’’ she whispered to
Adolphus, who was off to New-
castle for a week. “My pet,”
he murmured (to himself), “I
have six post-dated letters in
my overcoat pocket, properly
numbered, so as to avoid mis-
take Number 1 explains how
wretchedly dull the journey was
without you by my side ; num-
ber 2 depicts the horrible dis-
comforts of the hotel bed ;
number 3 touches upon the utter
selfishness of bachelor life; num-
ber 4 encloses some forget-me-
nots and a lock of whisker;
number 5 is a dismal treatise on
self-destruction ; and number 6
deals at considerable length with
the wild hope of seeing my
popsy-wopsy once again.” A
last fervid hug, and Adolphus
departed whistling.
* * *
Sir Henry Loch, in his
feeble attempts to scratch Lang-
ton’s back (at the opening of
the Victorian Artists’ Exhibi-
tion) said he “ didn’t know the
gallery pictures required apolo-
gising for.” They don’t. They
are leagues past that. If Lang-
ton and Co. all crawled on their
hands, stomachs, and knees
from the Gallery to Govern-
ment House it would be inade-
quate atonement for their taste-
less selections. They have now
purchased one of the worst pic
tures in the Exhibition. It
portrays Josephine writing out
her cheques. The rest of the
Court are around in stage-
struck attitudes. Bonaparte is
scowling—apparently because he
can’t get more money out of the
old girl. Josephine’s arm is
massive enough to be a limb of
the law, and the whole thipg
looks as if it had been designed
by a bricklayer.
* * *
Mrs. Mona Caird says -
“Women are naturally truth-
ful.” E ipecially when they are
talking about the other woman.
It has been decided in an English court
that a creditor who touches a debtor on the shoul-
der in a public place and requests payment of an
account, offends under the law against abusive and
insulting behaviour.
* # •
Peter Monaghan, who was charged with
using bad language at the Melbourne City Court,


PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinkirg reliable Old Wines from
Hookings, 410 George Street, ne»* King Street.
Uniform a specialty; quality, fit and comfort. Mudi
uian, “ My Tailor,” 164 King-street, Newtown.
Study your own Interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whith
Patsot Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery
■She quality Is exceptionally good, and the prloe very low.
; [lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Offioe.]
The two leading Melbourne asylums con-
tain about 20 per cent, more lunatics than they
were built to accommodate. The inference is that
some of the poor creatures have to roost on the
hat-racks, or try a shake-down in the kitchen-
£T WHAT
m- WHAT
*8- WHAT
WARNER’S
SAFE CURE
CURES
WHAT TEH
WHAT TEH
WHAT
BACK AGHE, its
GRAVEL, ■«>
RHEUMATISM, im
NEURALGIA, iss
HEAD ACHE, <m
NERVOUSNESS,
INDIGESTION, is*
OT There is no doubt of this great remedy’s
OT potency. It is no New Discovery unknown
and mayhap worthless, bub is familiar bo
; the public for years as the only reliable
m- • remedy for diseases of the Kidneys, Liver
itS" and Stomach. To be well, your blood
must be pure, and it never can be pure if
it=r the Kidneys (the only blood purifying
organs) are diseased. '
DIZZINESS,
dlSpsia, oured with
WARNER’S
IM POTENCY, SAFE CURE
FEMALE TROUBLES. CURE.
Ask your friends and neighbours what WAR-
NER S SAFE CURE has done for them.
Its RECORD is BEYOND the RANGE of DOUBT.
It has cured thousands and we have the
testimonials to prove our assertion. WAR-
NER’S SAFE CURE will cure you if you
will give it a chance.
the other day, handed the magistrate documentar
proof that his marriage had taken place on th
day of the offence, The magistrates held tha
prisoner was justified to some extent and let hi
off with six hours.
* * •
A month ago the financial arbiters of Au
tralia, the Melbourne boom-makers, were jus
languidly discussing where they would star
another boom—in N.S.W. or N.Z. Now a lot o
them are reckoning how much they will have ov
for themselves after paying their creditors fid.
the £. Such is life !
V * * *
The Queensland Primitive Methodist
growing to be an amoozin cuss in its old age. ]
a recent issue it heads a marriage notice, “ Bette
Late than Never,” which is a surprising way
put it to say the least, and then it goes on lil
this :
Though unnoticed in our last issue it may not be t
late to refer to the interesting ceremony of marriag
between Bro. ,of Barcaldine, and Miss —, well anc
favourably known in Brisbane, especially in connectio
with the Brisbane Evangelistic Choir. The marriage too
place at the residence of the bride’s parents. There was
large party present, including a little host of clerical
which fact should insure that the foundation was well anc
truly laid.
What unseemly levity!
• » a
The S.M. Herald of last Saturday hat
eleven announcements of Sunday sailing-excur
sions, and four programmes of Sunday amusement
• * *
A paragraph in last week’s Bulletin re
ferred to the absence of leading exhibitors from
the President’s luncheon. At his next feed (o
Thursday afternoon) the braw Macßain remarkec
that * ‘ he saw at the tables more gentlemen con
nected with the exhibits than he had observed a
any former luncheon.” Mac. had invited more.
• •
The man who enters his wife’s dressing
room is a philosopher or an imbecile. — Balzac.
A month ago the Sydney University de
termined by vote that medical students should hav
to pass in the first year’s arts course. Last wee]
there was another vote taken with the result tha
this arts course is squashed. It is threatenec
that next month there will be another vote takeD
and, if so, ib is threatened that in the month afte
there will still be another taken.
Yefc another little Battenberg is expectec
next month. The Bulletin suggests that som
patriot should steal the royal kid and teach it
trade.
The other day a newly-landed Englisl
couple were observed in Queen-street, Brisbane
with a Chinese flunkey bearing their offspring
Probably a Chow is cheaper than a nursemaid—
and for that matter a Chow would be cheape
than an infant, so it might be as well to do with
out the offspring altogether, and adopt a full
grown Mongol instead.
First Languid Swell—-“ Are you fond o
your wife?” Second Languid Swell—“ Well, yes
She is not disagreeable at times,”
-ft- • •
The ponderous “ Pendragon,” who lately
visited Australia, asserts in the .London Refebel
that Melbourne is a city where all the bn sines
places are closed and gaslights extinguished at
o’clock, and that after that hour no one is sup
posed to be abroad. From which we infer that
Mrs. P. puts her “ lord and master ” to bed very
early when they happen to be in strange cities.
• •
The price of gas per 1000 cubic feet is In
Brisbane ss-, in Sydney ss. 3d., and in Manly,
few miles from Sydney, 10s. In Liverpool, Png
land, it is 35., and the shale, out of which the gas
is there made, is imported from N.S.W.
# • *
Captain Lassetter, who is coming from
England to “instruct” the N.S.W. Mountec
Infantry, is, as already stated, a young man who
has been but 12 months in a foot regiment. When
he received the appointment of “ instructor ”he
himself went under instruction at Aldershot.
The query among Australian warriors is— Has
Captain Lassetfcah’s wife a sistah married to a
duke ? If not, what does the appointment mean ?
* m
Ex-Justice Munro, of Auckland (N.Z.),
while visiting London recently for the first time,
expressed himself astonished at the number of
moustached women he met in the streets.
* # •
At the inaugural dinner of the Grosvenor
Hotel, Sydney, Alderman Playfair said that “ it
was only at festive gatherings like that at which
they had assembled that the members of Sydney
Corporation ever received a word of commenda-
tion for their services.” Solemn fact. Nobody
ever praises Sydney Corporation unless he hap-
pens to be on the high road to intoxication.
• •
Matrimonial advt. from the Melbourne
Age :
Moorcroft —Ago.—On the 30th July, Joseph (Jerry),
oigar-maker at Moss White, Exhibition, to Annie, wife of
late Fred. Charles Agg, youngest daughter of Patrick
Quinn, slater, and granddaughter of John Foley, gentle-
man, of Deer Park, Clare, Ireland.
* • •
An advt. from the S.M. Herald :
“ Bachelors’quarters, Darlinghurst,” &c Bache-
lors’ quarters ? We should think so. Governor
Read looks after that part of it.
• # *
“John Collins” means “gin squash.”
And now they are trying to make out in Sydney
that “ Louisa Collins ” means arsenic-and-milk. A
bilious drink for this hot weather.
Daring the hearing of the libel case, Lane
v. Parson, at Newcastle, N.S.W., which resulted
in a verdict of one farthing damages and one far-
thing costs, plaintiff’s counsel, Mr. Colonna-Close,
was holding forth on the heinous offence a writer
in the Goseord and Wollombi Express had
committed, who had searched English literature
through and selected one of the strongest diatribas
in the language, which he had copied almost liter-
ally and applied to the plaintiff. It might be
defensible to rely on one’s own ability, but there
could be no defence in taking the writings of
“Junius” Mr. Moriarty here interjected, “Or
Lord Macaulay,” and everybody wondered why
the usually taciturn Judge Wilkinson indulged in
such a hearty and long-continued laugh.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street, North, Sydney, Deo. 5, 1888.
My Dear Moorabtnda,—
On the 29th ult., Lord and Lady Oarington were “at
home ” at Government House to the usual strange assort-
ment —the ladies ranging from the pompous Potts Pointer
to an assortment of Sydney hat-trimmers who doubtless
THE PRODUCTION OE IRELAND.
TEACHER: “WHAT ARE THE PRODUCTIONS OF IRELAND?”
1st BOY: “DON’T KNOW.”
TEACHER : “NEXT!”
2nd BOY: “ER”—
TEACHER: “NEXT!”
3rd BOY: “ER-AH, THAT IS”—
TEACHER: “WRONG! NOW THEN, NEXT BOY; COME NOW, SPEAK UP!
‘WHAT ARE THE PRODUCTIONS OF IRELAND?'”
4th BOY: “PERLICEMEN?”
recognised many an unpaid bill on the heads of several o
the “gorgeous fair” present. The day being dull, th
gowns, generally a reflex of the weather, were mostly dul
too. Lady Carington wore an elaborate costume o
mu-de-nil satin almost covered with cream lace, sash o
eau-de-nil satin, cream gauze bonnet trimmed with pink
and eau-de-nil ribbon, cream lace strings, tan gloves
white complexion fall and a cream en tout cas
completing a becoming toilette. Miss Adelaide Detchon
wore an odd gown of pink-flowered silk, apple
green silk sash, facings, and shoulder bows ; tulle bonnet
with pale-pink aigrette, and tan gloves. The Hon.
Misses Carington were, of course, alike in white pique
Princess robes trimmed with embroidery, Leghorn hats
trimmed with white ribbon, white kid gloves and black
hose. A tasteful frock was a gray Directoire coat faced
with grey velvet, over a jupe and vest of cream silk, and
grey velvet sash. So also was a cream Indian silk thickly
embroidered round the borders, and combined with a
cream moire sash and V-shaped bodice, trimming of
moire. Another cream dress was almost composed of the
new guipure embroidery, and worn with a pretty, airy
bonnet covered with pink heath. I saw the fat woman,
of course. She was gorgeous in white, lavishly trimmed
with a bold design in flaming yellow ; on her head an ex-
tinguisher-shaped black bonnet with the crown one mass
of scarlet poppies, and on her feet bronze evening
slippers. Another fearful and wonderful vision had a
bodice and skirt trimming of yellow gauze spangled with
silver. There were not many men present. “ E.W." was
hovering about. The Hon. Rupert wore a tall grey hat,
and lacked animation as usual. Consul Griffin devoted
himself to Miss Detchon, and the rest of the men were
naval offioers, one or two wild curates, and a scattering
of Civil servants ambitious of social successes, who follow
sowciety like its shadow, in the faint hope that if they
are constantly seen clothed and in their right mind they
may be “ taken up.” That's all about the “HatOme,”l
think, exoept about the greenhouse. As a rule the
gardener looks the conservatory door on days when the
public raid the premises, but in a weak moment he left it
open on Thursday, and the mob swarmed in. As a result
the flowers were covered with clusters of fern torn off the
pots by the gentle hands of the visitors, and many a
wrenched, bent stalk showed how great had been the
effort to break it. The door will probably be locked next
time. If it isn’t, then the greenhouse should be patrolled
by Policeman X. A very large and splendidly-dressed
section of Sydney Society always behaves itself best when
the man in blue is about.
The following letter speaks for itself Dear Sappho,—
You would really be doing a very great kindness to
many by directing attention to the great neglect shown
with regard to introducing strangers, and others, to part-
ners at Government House balls and other large dances.
It is a common thing to see dozens of. girls sitting down
half the night, simply because no one is told off to intro-
duce them to those strangers who would be only too
pleased to dance with~them. Things are better managed
at Sydney and Adelaide, but I have been at Government
House dances in Melbourne and Hobart, and notioed
dozens of men standing about, simply beoausetheA.D.G.’s
were enjoying themselves elsewhere, and so would not
take the trouble to introduce the guests. I had the good
fortune to be amongst those invited to an “ At Home ” at
Government House, Hobart, during a recent visit there.
Lady Hamilton managed everything with the most ad-
mirable graoe, but I am sure she did not know that many
men, including a number of naval officers, were standing
about half the night without anyone making the slightest
offer to introduce them to the many pretty girls sitting
down. This oould be avoided by half- a-dozen men being
asked by the hostess to undertake this courteous duty, as
is done in Canada. lam a good danoer myself, and fond
of dancing, but I assure you I had great difficulty in
making up half a programme, for the reasons given.— An
English Visitor
In a spiritualistic article entitled “ Aut diabolus aut
nihil ” an anecdote is related how Satan was invoked at
Paris by a circle of spiritists, and when he came he wore
evening dress ! The idea of the “ old serpent ” seeking
whom he may devour in a banger and a white tie seems
strange, doesn't it ? Though, when you come to think ol
it, evening dress and the devil are not so very incon-
gruous, after all 1
Miss Mitchell, Miss Mart id, and Miss More, who acted
as secretaries to Lady Carington in the horticultural de-
partment of the hie jacet W.I.E. have been each pre-
sented by Lady Carington with a handsome gold bangle
set with diamonds and pearls, with an inscription and the
date on the bracelets.
Mr. and Mrs. Quong Tart are now en route for China.
They went via Brisbane. Apropos of Brisbane, Sir
George Bowen was not in that Dijon train accident,
after all. He went on a visit to the monastry of the
Grande Chartreuse, to sample some of the liquors made by
the monks of that order, and so missed the smash. This
is yet another indisputable argument in favour of Blue-
Ribbonism. If Sir G. B. had been a good teetotal old
man he would have been twanging a harp now.
In \ ictoria, recently, at a Land Board meeting, a
touzled selector was asked how many children he had.
He did not know—but, on being pressed, replied vaguely
that he “ thought there were eight or nine, but his
missus knew," and on being pressed still further said he
“ thought there were nigh on eight kids and the old
’ooman."
On the 28thulb., Lady CariDgton, accompanied by Baron
Bob, presented the prizes due to the winners at the recent
meeting of the N.S.W. Rifle Association, at the “ Ailight"
Rink, Redfern. The vice-regal party included the Hon.
Rupert Carington, Lord Hastings, and Mr. Burroughes.
After the prizes had been jerkily appropriated by the
rifle-range heroes present, Baron Bob made a speech in
whioh he said he always felt at home with soldiers. Quite
so. England being run on the bayonet principle, soldiers
are “English, quite English, you know."
On the 28 bh ult. the marriage of Harry Addington
Un>vin, formerly Private Seoretary to Lord Augustus
Loftus, and Miss Edith Mary Hendy-Pooley, of Potts Point,
was solemnized at St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney.
I wonder if the people who block Government House
live under a roof ? or if they abide in tents and remain
only vaguely conscious of the environments of civilized
life ? For at vice-regal receptions and the like, the mob
explore the drawing-room as if it \yere a museum. They
peer into photos, open music-books, smell the flowers and
examine the furniture as if everything gubernatorial were
sacredly apart from anything else under the sun. To see
parties of twos and threes'stealing with bated breath
about the “ red ” drawing-room, prying into every corner,
as if even vice-regal flue were a saored sight, seeing that
it evolved itself from the holy dust kicked up by vice-
regal heels, is enough to make anybody ill.
What should we do for footlight data but for the
S.M.H. ! Said this reliable journal’s Melbourne prophet
in a recent burst of information
The ninth week of “ Hands Across the Sea ” commenced
on Saturday night to a full house at the Theatre Royal,
Miss Nellie Stewart sooring a great sucoess in the titl e-role.
That little remark about a “ Dinth week commencing to a
full liousS ’’ is relevant if unexpected, but when it comes
to Nellie Stewart in the title-rofc of “Hands Across the
Sea ” I begin to be faintly incredulous especially as—
Under the dome of the gorgeous Princess's,
Arrayed first in rags and then be-yoo-tiful dresses,
But fetching in both (so say all who have seen her),
Sweet Nellie glou-glous as '“La Masootte’’—Bettina.
It’s said that F. H. Cowen will be patted on the shoulde
with a naked sword when he gets back to Hingland and
told to “ rise up, Sir Somebody ” in recognition of his ser-
vices in connection with the Centennial Exhibition,
“ The terrible sacrifice,” sarcastically comments a Mel-
bourne weekly, “ which he made in accepting the offer
(£5000) of the Melbourne commissioners surely deserves
reward."
The everlasting drought has at last partially dissolved
thank goodness, and, apropos of droughts, a Queensland
squattah at present in Sydney had a lively experience
during the late water famine. Right in the heat of the
dry season rain oame, and fell on his estate only, not a
drop descending anywhere else in the vicinity. And he
didn’t pray for it either, so another great truth is lost to
an appreciative Y.M.C.A.
Tell me the old, old story ! Mrs. Mona Caird is going
to write a novel ! Rather a difficult task for her, I should
say, everything considered
For what will she do with the loving young man,
And the girl with eyes like the stars above ?
Will they marry (as usual) as soon as they can V
Or will they exemplify Mona's “ free love ’ ?
If they go on that way, it’s as,true as tradition,
The book is a boom from the opening edition.
A recently-announced book is called “ The Wanderings
of a War Artis*.”
Our Mrs. Malaprop went to witness some “ millinery
manovers ” the other day, and whilst gazing on the scene
remarked on her fondness for seeing the volunteers go
through their ablutions
A correspondent writes to tell me of a fashionable .wed-
ding at Christ Church, South Yarra, Melbourne, on 21st
ult., between Mr. George Ohirnside and Miss Martin. The
bride wore white silk and crepe with a diamond necklace,
star, brooch, and bracelet, and was followed by six
bridesmaids elaborately attired in white and pale primrose
silk, white moire Empire sashes, chip hats trimmed with
tulle, ribbons and Mareshal Niel roses, each carrying
ominously enough—a “ husband-beater ”of white moire
with a bunch of roses attached to the handle. The bride’s
travelling-dress was of vieux-rose with straw bat eh suite
trimmed with velvet and flowers. The honeymoon is
being spent in Sydney.
The “blood red moon ” whioh, according to the Sydney
Daily TELKORAni, caused, or prognosticated, or at any
rate had some occult connection with Alfred’s fire, seems
also to have had a deleterious effect on the D.T. itself, fo
I read the following in a recent issue of that ably-oon-
ducted journal:—
TANNER—RIGNEY.—October 31, at St, 'Paul’s
Church, Redfern, by the Rev. F. B. Boyce, Herbert
eleventh son of Wm. Tanner, of Marrickville, to
lanny, second son of the late Thomas Rfgnev. of
Bathurst. ® J
When the eleventh son of one family marries the second
son of another family we are on the verge of a great revo-
lution, as regards marriages.
A nasty, common bootmaker in Manchester is compet-
ing with Royalty. He announces that he will present six
guineas to the mother of every set of triplets in England,
adding that this is just double “ the old price."
Rosehill raoe-meeting on the Ist inst. wasn’t remark-
able for any great dress show, as to be paradoxical the
weather was so deoidedly undeoided. A stylish gown of
silver-grey silk made en directoire with jupe and vest of
slate-coloured silk and trimmings of silver galoon, with
which was worn a grey straw hat profusely trimmed with
grey ribbon, silver lace, and white asters, being the only
get-up that appealed to the eye of
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHD SMITH.


A RADICAL REFORM
'/AHI I feel bo Mondayish!” exclaims the
housemother at her breakfast-table on the
Monday morning. Although the above absurd
adjective is not to be found in the dictionary, yet
every woman well knows its meaning when she
looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling,
toiling, temper-trying, hateful washing day. J-he
house is thrown out of joint, other weekly duties
are as far as possible set aside, the children kept
out of the way, a cold dinner for the family, and a
warm reception for anyone who intrudes to waste
time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing
day” is a thing of the past. Every busy, hard-
pressed mother knows the wretchedness and
gloom which the present washing-day brings down
upon the household. In the early morning all
prepared for the all-important washerwoman,
timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then to
attack the week’s or fortnight s batch of soiled
linen. The good-natured husband readily excuses
a hastily-prepared breakfast, for lie hopes. it may
betoken the speedy ending of the dreadful day.
The children are packed off to school, and th
begins in earnest the strife between the housewife,
anxious to get everything finished in good time,
and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the
greatest impartiality the laundress divides her
attention between the discussion of light re “® s
ments and the very latest gossip, the intervals of
bime being 1 filled up with a gentle application
to her special functions.
You will see advertised “Steam Washers,’
whereby the linen is washed in boihng water.
This is altogether unscientific, as any sensible
woman knows, for water which is at °r “early at
boiling point will fix a portion of the dirt in the
clothes, imparting to them a villainous yel I
binge. This is the experience of all who have used
such machines, and the reason is easily explained.
All body linen contains a "certain proportion of
albuminous substances, which, although readi y
dissolved in cold water, have the property of being
rendered absolutely insoluble by the application
of hob water, thus forming what dyers term a,
mordant. This catches and fixes any dirt or
colouring matter present in this steaming or
“ boiling ” washer, and the clothes are literally
dyed a bad colour instead of being cleansed.
Then there are the old-fashioned “Rocking
Washers,” which are made of wood or of iron, and
supported upon two standards. These revolving
or “ rocking machines are tedious to fill, lhe
clothes have first to be soaped and rubbed, then
taken singly and packed inside in a certain manner
under pain of failure. Then the heavy machine
has to be rocked or swung round by mam force.
Only a man or woman with unusual muscular
development should attempt the task. The Bea
Patent Washer can be used by a girl or lad of 15
years.
smfcgs
Reale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle .
The two above-described “Steaming” and
“ Rocking ” Washers are those mostly before the
public in this colony at the present time.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
aoribed as follows ; and we ask you kindly to refer
illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully fluted sides. It is stationary,
only the water and clothes being agitatedby a
oyids In the process the clothes are
K toand fro, up and down; currents and
fll lbrents of water are formed which meet and
are forced through and through the fabric, carry-
™ awav every particle of dirt and stain. .The
limm being merely suspended in the water, is no
rubbed and scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither
ruDDea an i—:* fn f.Vio and-wringing pro-
auueu mu iioixxvx hw U »***p-
has .utamt jo the
vhich insensibly
u IW WHO UWUV* o—o M.
, - . mapnm mv rips, tears, and wears tne
clothes Thus, the most delicate fabrics cannot
he torn bv our system of washing. Every one
has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
torX washfng as by use. This is caused by the
,■ rubbing they get upon washing boards, or
by the hands. \sitli the Beale Washing
Machines this friction is done away with. Ihere
Macmnes u longer than by hand-
er e ; W howeveT careful. When the washing is
and nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
. riaaUy, remwibetJj^t^no^hand-ruVdimg
Washer, however much they may be necessary
with other machines.
Instead of the disturbance of the weekly wash-
£3s? two or three hours will to d° the
work and to do it every way better. • A
ouble » ... . o 0 g the house-wife, and
eary l*bour taken introduc .
Jnof'the Beale Patent Washer fairly to be called
Radical Reform ?
A customer of ours calls the change, “ Washing
nade Fun."
May be had upon Easy Terms of Payment, no
aatter where you live. Full instructions accom-
Zy each Machine. We will replace, without
sharge, any part broken in transit.
Beale & Company,
484, A.KD 486 Gborgb Stbkst,
wragav
c
HRISTMAS HOLIDAYS.
MELACHRINO t
]\/[EIjACHRINO !
This world-renowned Egyptian CI oAßkt t k is
made .from the finest Yenidge Tobacco and has
no Equal. Has now the Largest Sale in the
World !
M. MELACHRINO & CO., Cairo,
And 21 Cockspur Street, London,
Are by appointment, purveyors to the Courts and
Ambassadors of Europe, the principal British and
Continental Clubs, and all the Messes of the
British Army and Navy.
WARREN & ROWN,
14 BARRACK STREET,
Are Sole Agents where the Public can obtain
Boxes of 100 Cigarettes and upwards, and also
from the
Leading Tobacconists in Sydney.
Demand for these fragrant Cigarettes increasing
daily, fresh supplies by every Mail Steamer.
WARREN & ROWN,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of finest Brands of Havana Cigars.
Public supplied with Single Boxes at Wholesale
Prices. Price Lists forwarded on application
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7; Commence 8. Carriages 10.30.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
SIGNOR and SIGNORA MARJERONI
in
THE GREAT HISTORICAL PLAY,
QUEEN ELIZABETH. /
PRICES, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
A L.
Theatre roy
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
MAGGIE MOORE, and J. C. WILLIAMSON
in their Famous Drama
STRUC K OIL
and the
CHINESE QUESTION.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
B
ON D I
aquari um
Vhe most popular pionio and pleasure pounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Olm to UliH
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission,
Ib. ; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
Criterion theatre.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. LOUCICAULT
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of the
Favourite Comedian
Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 „
“THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
“THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
ADMISSION— Ss, ,, 35., 25., and Is.
Box Offioe open daily at Nioholson’s Musio
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOB DAVIS
-XTEW HAYMARKET MUSIC HALL,
J3l Proprietor _ ••• „
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
Unprecedented Success of
THE HARRY RICKARDS
NEW COM-EDY and specialty company
Acknowledged by Press and Public to be the
Best Company of
comedians, singers, ACTORS, and specialists
ever brought to Australia.
Everything New, Original, and Repined.
Doors open 7; commence at 8.
Admission —Stalls, 25., Balcony Is.
Manager for Mr. Rickards, John C. Leete.
■vr E W OPERA H O U S E.
Lessees & Managers, Hiscocli s & I nedman
TO-NIGHT TO-NIGHT,
And Every Evening
THE WORLD’S GREAT WODERS,
HISCOCK’S and ERIEDMAN S
NEW ENGLISH SPECIALITY COMPANY,
Augmented by New Stars.
Popular Prices : Dress Circle, 3s. ; Stalls, 25.;
PIT-ONE SHILLING.
M
iSS ADELAIDE DETCHON.
Under the management of Liddy & Lohr.
FRIDAY 7th, and SATURDAY Bth,
FAREWELL APPEARANCES
MISS ADELAIDE DETCHON
At the Y.M.C.A. Hall.
PRICES, 55., 35., and Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
THE ITALIAN BEE Co.,
Pabbamatta, Supplies Italian
Queens and Bees, Extracted
and Comb Honey, Frame
Hives and Implements.
When an Italian says “ I loaf,” he means
hbat he loves. That is, he loves to \o*i-Murkan
£" freeman a sons,
IMPORTERS
AMD
MANUFACTURERS.
Mt'i Bakin’ Fovden. Orient Stun Blue.
EGO A CUSTARD POWDERS.
MLXTRAOT OF SOAP. SODA QRYBTALB.
SALAD * CASTOR OILS.
Orlont Washing Powdor
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY A PUDDING POWDERS.
BBLFRAISINQ FLOOR.
TOILET OILS. PEBSI4* SBEBSET.
AO.. Ao.
STEAM WORKS %
tt ah.~r.TH STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY,
TTJST published.
"THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Aethdb Gayll.
r PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED T»
BY
The Bulletin’s well-known Artißbs,
L. Hopkins and Phil- May.
Price - ONE SHILLING.
Per Poet, lfl. 3d. (exoept Queensland).
ALL AfiESTS.
North shore land
IFOR S-A-IjEL
A. HARNETT, Junr., & CO ,
(50a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W E
GAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
{From Paris)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen's
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
note the address—
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(o few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
' MELBOURNE.
buckboard BUGGIES £2O
Regular shipments of bhe Best Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c £27. E. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The larges
and most completely equipped Coach Works m
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms.
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWM.A ,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Bogg
Road, Brisbane (South).
Rev. H. B. Macartney, a prominent An-
glican of Melbourne, has expressed bu horror at
our boys and girls being taught in the same school-
building. He says he knows of nothing so ter-
rible in wearing the bloom off our girls, as sitting
in the vicinity of the boys, learning their language
and manners We are by this reminded of a
curly-haired little witch, who, upon being repn
manded for using remarks not too rehned, ex-
plained that she heard the boys saying bloom-
“blazes,” “blast, but she learnt
“hell and damnation-” at church.
M. De Giers, the Russian Minister of
Foreign Affairs—a man who has always tried to
emulate Bismarck in building up European history,
and who will probably end by adding two or three
kingdoms to the Muscovite empire or elseby being
knouted and sent to Siberia-is described as a
wizened little individual with a bowed, apoiogetic
tome and the shadow of an atoenUace fenced n
by a bush of damp, unpleasant hair. He ib thin
and hungry-looking, and seems to be morally in-
capable of assuming an erect position hand
are long and dark and spidery, and when he rubs
them together, which he does ceaselessly, t y
look like two five- legged tarantulas climbing per-
sistently over each other; his eyes are always
fixed on something round the corner, and bi3 fee
are for ever on thf shuffle. De Giers is a Russian
of Swedish extraction, and the Swede from whom
he was extracted was a Hebrew, so heis hard
fix Before he rose to greatness the old Russian
«nhZ*-s-se denounced him as a “ mongrel and a
“ Jewish dog ” and the like, but the men who used
,he SongJ* language atart
for Siberia when he came
rf hia enemies treat him with respect now.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and .Manufactory j
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS^
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, dinner waggon, table,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, ® ?5£, IR Ju
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
I ELF- ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
fitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
:he occupant. It is simple yet ir-enious in its
instruction; works automatically. The abovß
jut represents only two of the numerous Positions
:hat can be obtained instantly, and with but littlo
jffort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
md gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
jupply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Jhair to be used anywhere. Price, with stand,
iOs.; without Stand, 255.
Paoking in canvas, If required, 2s. od. extra.
RAWINGROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
D
OCCASIONAL TABLES In all Woods, tomense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
In Embroidery. Plush, &o. Newton & Lamb.
ft,
i~-i
L
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlaig*
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo*
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Drawing room oabi>
NETS.
■ABLY BHSLIBB
QeUFFUNDALB DBHIBKBi
Newton ft Lamb.
PIANOFOR *ES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Very Complet b
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order In
any material. Nbwton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
Bedsteads, an sizes.
Niokel-plated and Blaok
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. - Pine Tables, from
13s 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers;from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.,
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80^; t Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s,-, CedMi Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. od. 1
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
f TON AND LAMB.
furniture and pianoforte
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
Show Booms and Manu»aoto** »
*PRTW«3 * <T CONNELL BTRIT"


Horsford’s Acid Phosphate
FOR SUNSTROKE.
It relievos the prostration and nervous derangement.
ST. LOUIS, U.S.A.
St. Louis is famous for making the best Lager
Beer in the world, so say every one who has tried
it. Beware of frauds and see every cork has the
name of Anheuser on it. The public should ex-
amine every bottle before drinking. The ship-
ments are now on the market and are acknow-
ledged to be the best Lager Beer that has ever
been in Australia. The purest and most whole-
some tonic in the world. Ask for the Anheuser
St, Louis Lager Beer. Take no other.
E P P S’ S
Grateful —Comforting
COCOA
Western Australia is the Coning Colon?,
A GRAND FIELD FOR PROFITABLE INVESTMENT.
“1 he very promising discoveries at Yilgarn and Pil-
burra have led me to proclaim goldfields at those plaoes,
where there seems every reason to feel confident that sub-
stantial results will follow the enterprise of the capitalist
and miner. . . . The colony is to be congratulated on
the approaching opening of the Beverley-Albany railway.
It will unlock our gates to the world, will accomplish
many things for us, and will be the beginning of a new
era.’’—Extract from Governor Broome’s speech at opening
of the Legislative Council, Perth.
Send for a Plan of
PADDINGTON ESTATE,
PERTH, the Capital of West Australia.
Large Allotments. Good Land. Splendid positron.
Frontages to Government Roads.
£lO EACH LOT. £lO
EASY TERMS, Freehold Land. Torrens’ Title
The Goldfields at Yilgarn, Pilburra, Mulga
Mulga are now proved to be rich and extensive.
Western Australia is on the eve of having Re-
sponsible Government. The Great Southern
Railway is nearly completed. The Midland Rail-
way is to be re-commenced. Capitalists are
turning their attention to this colony. What will
shortly be the result. A repetition of the success-
ful progress of the Eastern Colonies, an increase
of population, and a big rise in the value of pro-
perty, especially in and around Perth. There is
no time like the present. Write for plans to THE
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT COM
PANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
THE
Mw and Provincial Land and Building Co.,
Limited,
303 PITT STREET, SYDNEX.
B. H. CHAPMAN, Esq., Chairman.
Capital .. £lOO,OOO. Subscribed .. £57,400
Uncalled Capital and Reserves .. £.‘{9,987.
Highest Rates given for Deposits.
Liberal Advances to Build.
SAVINGS BANK. — Withdraw without notice.
Interest , 5 per cent.
How to Buy a House for 12s. a week.
How to Buy an Orchard Block for Bs. 6d. a week.
How to Buy a large Building Block for Is. 3d. a week
WILLIAM DAVIES, Manager.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
G.B.D. PIPES
The test in the World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Mi: Solisckiit & Co.,
231 CLARENCE STREET
" ' jw °
%
JIM,
Mfl given away to buyers of a Bottle of Brbadalbanb
£■«)UUU Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferguson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
BRITTENBERG & CO.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wynyabd Square.
►Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs and Mouldings
JOSEPHSOFS OINTMENT.
Bt Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
'
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. Bub, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as .TOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the product on of the colony, composed of wild
plants indigenous to the country and nowhere else,
the principal of which is the EOCALYPI’US,
now so famed throughout the world.
-Tosephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves.
M< ssrs. E. Row and Co.
Lear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this.if you feel
disposed.
I remain, vours, etc.,
L P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANK’S BITTEHS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this swern testimony from a well-known
citizen:
Statutory Declarations.
“I, Grouge llewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows .
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been tuffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pibt-street.
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for ib raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression
Persons Buffeting from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
bake
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when tuffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure.tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and erea’e a dr sire for food
instead of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur-
passed.
RO
Dandelion
’S
rs.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE,
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN
SAYS ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY"
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, Ocbober 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at lasb, being
recommended to try ROW'S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happity, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horribly depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“I am glad of the opportunity bo make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS.
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW S YOU LL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW'S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS
ROW'S ASSORTED WINES.
Sole Proprietors,
Edward Bow & Company,
43, 45, 47 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNI’Y
“The Bulletin” Consultation.
HOW TO RAISE A FUND TO BUILD SYDNEY
HOSPITAL.
The mMb gratifying incident in the history of the
burst-up Vi iborian land-boom was the successful
effort pin four,h by the boomers to clear off the
colossal debt which had for years hung like a mill-
stone round the neck of Melbourne Hospital.
As for Sidney, which has had no boom, a
frail wooden building— lit Je better, indeed, than
a siisd— Jojs duty for the oldest and most central
eleemosyna y institution of the most solidly
wealthy community in the Southern Hemisphere.
At any moment a conflagration may occur, and
then assuredly there will be a human holocaust
a sac-i flee to the inertia and want of proper feeling
of successive Governments of N.S.W. It is true
that many scores of thousands of pounds have
been expended on the foundations of a hospital
edifice that woull ba a credit to the .colony, bub it
is so long since the click of the mason’s hammer
was heard cn the building that for all most
people know the foundations might be the ruins
of some palace of pre-hisboric Australia. Age has
already sombred the hue of the stone, and moss
grows from the mortar-joints, bearing Eilenb testi-
mony to the administration of lotos-eaters. The
sum of £BO,OOO is required to complete the build-
ing. The Government say they have not the
wherewithal, and no adequate appeal is made to
private charity for the execution of a truly
national and most necessary work.
• * *
From Sydney Hospital to Sydney racing-
sweeps is rather a sudden transition, but
we must ask our readers to follow us in
our seemingly erratic course. Lotteries, racing-
sweeps and consultations are illegal in New
South Wales, and, for that matter, elsewhere in
Australia. That is, punitive laws exist for the
suppression of gambling, yet, broadly speaking,
everyone, from the highest to the lowest, invests
a pound or two every year in sweep-tickets.
Legislators and lawyers, magistrates and police
men, all have their “little bit” risked for the
chance of a greatly increased gain, and every now
and then a policeman or some other administrator
of the law does land a big prize,_ faints over his
luck - we have read of such things in the papers
and then goes and draws his_ money and lives
happily ever after. The fact is that the spirit of
gambling is a sccial trait that finds expression in
thousands of forms, from the lucky-bag of the
goody-goedy bazaar upwards. Hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds are annually burned over in
racing-consultations in Sydney. The man who
conducts the leading business in this line puts up
lotteries of £50,000, £20,000, and so on, and
returns to the public 00 per cent, of the gross
total, putting into his own pocket the comfortable
sum of 10 per cent., out of which lie pays all
expenses. Of course no honest, intelligent person
can for one instant contend that racing-sweeps
have an elevating moral tendency, and nobody
can argue that they have a good effect
save that they somewhat reduce the har-
vest reaped by the sickles-nosed bookmaker.
Nobody can reasonably urge that a racing-sweep
exercises any better effect on the community than
a boom in silver-shares, or an artificial and tem-
porary inflation in the value of suburban allot-
ments or in that of a Government estate which is
one week traded off by the Sbat9 at £lO per acre
and the next brought to the hammer by philan-
thropic promoters of “model suburbs,” and so on.
bo be disposed off “on easy terms” at ten shillings
a foot. We have admitted that a sweep has no
better effect than a wild-cat land-speculation, but,
were we disposed, we would be prepared to argue
bhat it has nob a worse effect. However, one
thing is tolerably certain —that when a racing
sweep is honestly conducted on the terms above-
mentioned, the public are sure of having 90 per
cent, of the amount they subscribe divided be-
tween them, whereas in a silver-swindle or a land-
boom it is by no means certain that anybody will
ultimately get a red cent who does not happen to
belong to the gang of “ first robbers.”
We prefaced the foregoing paragraph with the
statement that sweeps are illegal, but they are
only nominally so. The business is carried on in
broad daylight without let or hindrance, and, as
we have already stated, some of the most lucky
investors have been, by the irony of fate or, may-
hap, something else, those entrusted with the. ad-
ministration of the law. When a law falls into
such contempt that it is broken with impunity,
and “is more honoured in the breach than in the
■observance,” it is clear to us that it does not de-
serve a place in the statute-book lest it should be
a menace to the whole legal machinery. And it
is very obvious in this case that either the law or
the sweeps should be abolished. If it is impos-
sible to restrain this form of gambling by legis-
lative enactment it were better that the Gaming
and Lotteries Act should be repealed. We are,
however, of opinion that the highly moral Minis-
try that rule N.S.W., had they been really
desirous of suppressing gambling, might long ago
have passed a drastic Act rendering it penal to
promote or purchase tickets in a-sweep, providing
heavy fines for the insertion of advertisements
relating thereto, or even for printing tickets or
handbills in connection therewith, and empower-
ing the Post Office to confiscate all letters ad-
dressed to sweep-promoters.
*- * *
Now we come to elucidate the somewhat hazy
connection between Sydney Hospital accommoda-
tion and racing-sweeps. We mean to ask the
Col onial Secretary to let us get up a sweep to
complete the erection of the new Sydney Hospi-
tal. We have thought over the subject in.all. its
bearings. As the authorities have been winking
with both eyes while hundreds of thousands of
pounds have changed hands by lottery under their
very noses, solely in the interests of the sweep-
promoters’ ten-per cent. commission, we think that
we will not be accused of temerity when we ask
the Government, which is so hard up that it can-
not find the wherewithal to build the Hospital, to
do one big prolonged wink while we make a solid
attempt to achieve a mighty national and humani-
tarian object. We have asked ourselves how the
public will regard the project, and we have come
to the conclusion that were we to promote a
gigantic bazaar with raffles and other games of
chance to provide the sinews of war for our under-
taking they would give us the most cordial assist-
ance and approval; and as a racing-sweep is pre-
cisely the same thing in principle as a raffle, an
objector to a Benevolent Consultation would be a
lery narrow-minded, hair-splitting individual, in-
eed. Even the most conscientious of the com-
mnity, who never attend race-meetings, but who
o not object to the element of chance being in-
rcduced in connection with a church buildiog-
and, will no doubt relax a little'when the excel-
3nce of the object is taken into account and given
ts full value,
w *
Full particulars of the Sydney Hospital Benevo-
ent Consultation of £20,000 will be announced in
letail in a subsequent issue, but we may here say
hat we intend to request the country press of
j. S.W. to advertise the consultation gratis, and
narked copies of the paper containing this article
vill be sent to all the leading journals in the
solonies of Victoria, South Australia, Western
Australia, New Zealand and Tasmania, with a re-
quest that the scheme should be noticed in their
;ol umns. By this means we hope that the
■xpenses will be cut down to the finest possible
imit. We intend that the sum of 10 per cent,
ihall be deducted for the benefit of the hospital,
ess, of course, the very small expenditure neces-
sary, which wil 1 consist entirely of cash out of pocket,
3very penny disbursed being certified to by voucher,
out we expect that the institution will benefit more
argely in other ways than through the 10 per
sent. aforesaid. For instance, a great number of
people whos9 consciences would not permit them
bo take tickets with the idea of benefiting them-
selves will, in the cause of charity, purchase
bickets and present them to the Colonial Secretary
for the benefit of the Hospital. Then, again, we
expect that the vast majority of those who take
bickets will, of their own accord, devote a propor-
tion of their prospective winnings to the Hospital
“ for luck.” We intend that there shall be a por-
tion of the application-form-for-tiekets devoted to
a reminder that a proportion of the possible
winnings of the ticket may, if the purchaser
see fit, be devoted to the Hospital. In this way
we hope to raise £5OOO or £6OOO for the institution
on the £20,000 sweep, and if we are successful and
are let alone by the authorities, we will very
soon force all the other sweep-promoters to
imitate our benevolence, and thus perform
the task we have set out upon—to provide
the £BO,OOO necessary to complete and furnish
Sydney Hospital. We will be glad to hear of
suggestions from any of our readers which may
tend to increase the efficiency of our plan.
N.B. —The virtuous Sir Henry Parkes, if ap-
plied to by The Bulletin for permission to run a
sweep for a benevolent object, would simply refer
its conductors to the provisions of the present
abortive Gambling Act. In view of this, we have
decided not to go on with the foregoing project, but
will present the idea to the sweep-promoters of
Sydney, knowing that they have methods, which
we do not possess and would not care to use, of
driving coaches and horses through incomplete or
obsolete Acts of Parliament. We are in hopes
that the whole of the sweep-making fraternity
will, ere long, be competing amongst themselves
as to who will give the largest sum annually out
of their huge profits to the charitable institutions
of the colonies.
Macdonald Patterson, ex-Postmaster-General
for Queensland, has spoken. He spoke at a Mel-
bourne Exhibition luncheon, one of those rollick-
ing festivals where Victoria Regina is present in
spirit, and her faithful Macßain presides in the
flesh. Macdonald Patterson beamed around
the table and congratulated Victoria on
having no sympathy with Queensland in
regard to a “certain movement.” The very
mention of that “ movement,” which he
would have died rather than particularise on
such a respectable occasion, caused Patterson
to break out in beads of loyal perspira-
tion. He mopped them up, and then went on
to explain that “there were five Queenslanders
present to whom he had spoken on that awful
certain question, and they all believed that the
feeling of the great majority of the people of
Queensland was in complete sympathy and har-
mony with the result of the division (terminating
in “God save,” &c.) which took place in the
Victorian Legislative Assembly.” Mac. Patterson
makes us sick. What should he and his brother
“ distinguished colonists ” know about the feeling
of any majority of any people on God’s earth ? If
they were not natural supporters of existing hum-
bug, and sworn adherents of everything which is
doomed to be swept away, they would not have
been invited to that “ representative ” ceremony.
In the October number of the North American
Review, Allen Thorndike Rice has an article
entitled “Maxims and Markets,” which deals the
Foreign-trade fallacy some hard knocks. Listen: —
The men of maxims in America to-day have erected a
golden calf before which they fall down and worship.
They are longing, if not for the flesh-pots of Egypt, at
least for the dry goods of Europe. Their new evangel
teaches that the end and aim of statesmanship is to buy
in the oheapest and sell in the dearest market. They even
preach this pawnbroker’s gospel in the name of Chris-
tianity. It is not Christianity, however, only the absurd
and morbid sentiment that proclaims it a duty to send aid
and comfort to distant and unfriendly peoples—“ tooth
brushes and red shirts to the savages in Central Africa ”
while it remains indifferent to the welfare of family and
home. The men of the markets, on the contrary, believe
that the duties we owe to our own households and people
should take precedence of all other moral obligation.
After work, and food, and clothing, and fit lodgings have
been found for the people of a nation, and not till then,
should it take cognizance of the world outside its own
borders. Possibly we can buy goods cheaper than we can
make them in some cases, judging by price lists, but these
lists do not reckon the cost of providing for the millions
now profitably employed, whom the heartless policy of
supplanting American by European products would render
idle and homeless and huDgry.
Now, Pulsford, speak up !
A female dentist has started business in
Melbourne. A crab-winch, we presume.
It has been suggested that the White-
chapel murderer belongs to the Social Purity
Society.
Saturday’s Daily Telegraph (Melbourne)
held the following ad. : —“ Chalmers Church,
Eastern Hill —Rev. T. W. Dunn. Morning —
‘ Homeless, Frier dless, and Afflicted.’ Evening
—‘Seeing Life.’” This was reversing the usual
order of things entirely. People generally “ see
life ” first and then drop with a sickening thud into
the “ homeless ” portion of the programme.
A native lady of sable complexion and
great tonnage, has won the encomiums of the
Western District (Vic.),. press by anteing-up a
puree containing a large sum of money, which she
:'ound on a bush road. Square gin !
Bishop Stanton, of North Queensland, is
in England and is sending round the hat there
for funds to propagate the Gospel throughout his
extensive diocese. While he is thus exercising
himself his clergy are holding out their palms in
that very diocese for funds to propagate the
Gospel among the heathen of the Pacific Islands.
The Bishop is admitted to be a Right Reverend,
so we suppose these other apostles deserve to be
called Wrong ones.
A long, raw potato-miner got a job in a
Smeaton (Vic.) mine, the other day, and, during
the course of the shift, was requested by his mate
to knock for the cage. The agricultural expert
gave the necessary signal,' and the cage with a
truck in it was lowered to the level. The mutton-
headed rustic hauled the truck on to the plat-sheet,
and then burst into a wild guffaw. “What’s
wrong?” asked his mate, coming up the drive, in
some surprise. “WroDg!” beefed the yahoo.
“Bemesowl, I knocked fer a cage, an’ they’ve
sint down this rusty owld iron tank ! ”


Business Announcements.
BARBERS’
SUPPLY
HOUSE.
Hairdressers
ABOUT
COMMENCING BUSINESS,
AS WELL AS THOSE
Already Established,
WILL FIND AT
CRAIG & AITKEN’S
NEW SOUTH WALES
arbers’ Supply
BOUSE,
SHAMPOOING APPARATUS,
American and Colonial Hairdressing Chairs,
SCISSORS, COMBS, BRUSHES,
Mirrors, Hot Water Urns,
AND
S3T EVERY REQUISITE
AT @
IBICES WHICH Ml! COMPETIIION!
Agents for the Celebrated
‘PLUM’
BRAND OF
Razors & Scissors.
COMPLETE
\
Sa/oon Outfit
FROM
£lO UPWARDS.
ASSISTANTS ENGAGED
FOR
Town and Country Customers.
Note Address—
Craig f; Aitken,
Hew South Wales
Barbers Supply
HOUSE,
682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
IK3P Prioß Ll#T PoSTBL ON kV PLICATION.
The Sydney daily press makes too much
use of the word “alleged.” One paper recently
put the heading “ Alleged Libel” over the report
of a case where the paper itself was mulct in heavy
damages.
Australian policemen are not the only
public functionaries that Dame Fortune smiles
upon when there is a lottery on the tapis. A
short time ago a quartermaster-sergeant in a
Uhlan regiment of Austria drew a prize of £1G,000
in the Vienna Communal Loan
A Lovbly and Dblicatb COMPiiBxiON.— This Is ob
tained by using Rowlands’ Kalydor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Roaslllon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, fto. Unequalled High-clasB Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 110 Oeorge-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near Klng.street.*
E.C.ELEY
m
&
XX
C
\
<b
K
%
o
<0
&
V
Jo
£
.v
o
5':,;
o
v
r\
v
&
0
xr
o
V*
o
r\
'O
0
£
*
o
0
0
&
r.
0
O
<< x
v
0
r\
!$
.V
£
*
0
O
390 a GEORGE S T
SYZOKTESTST.
William’s Australian Inseotlolde .s death to all inseots.
Simple In application—sure In effeot. This Is the only
genuine Inseot Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of inseots, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosqurros
especially, the Inseotioide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all ohemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 267 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs BUlott Bros. (
and B. Prosser & Co.*
S±N30y
X
o
11+
• S
T
O
u
7
DELISSA* PHILLIPS
>3&csßarmck Street.
mA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
worn ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE.
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTERTIOM TO THE BUYIHi; OF TEAS.
10!
INDENTS ARB BXBOUTBD ON THB MOST FAVOURABLE TBRMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THB BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. —-
Tfisa Bast Manufacturing iaehlnas In Exlstanaa.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEiM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS
IK YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sell Agsati foi ike above for New South Wales asd QneeaclftNi.
Alio Importers of Requisites for ihe Boot Manufacturing Trade in ail details, including Maohinery,
fmoorted Leathers, Ac. j and of the following Special LinesPEERLESS GLOSS. BATIN POLISH!
WVTWV ft ** iCVfwO ■ Tool* *.»/ »s» V* vawyetil*
DR. RICHARD,
N
D* RICHARDS X
N p sA£^h^±iK'ZZ r
ThiB eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chiel
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
Insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other clasß of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
cases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to °h.>w their
written evidence of his success. All comm unica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
off Pitt Street North).
Ac our* to mention this paper when writing.
OOKIULTATIOS? FISLSa
THE LATEST, BOTANICAL DISCOVERY,
THE BLOOMING IDIOT.-(Genus Cigarettus.)
The regimental colours of the 55th Regt.,
which date back to 1760, have just been discovered
in a London pawnshop.
An Adelaide paper says that the work of
putting down bores throughout S.A. is being
rapidly pushed ahead. John Cash Neild has had
a narrow escape.
An old-time Sydney publican, attracted
by the sixpenny-drink business, sold out and went
to Melbourne. He put himself in the brokers’
hands, and was duly informed that such a
house as he required could be had at a moment’s
notice. He was taken to a fine-looking establish-
ment, old, and doing —so ’twas said—a roaring
trade. When asked to inspect he declined. One
glance at the doorstep was too much for him. The
stone wasn’t worn enough for Ms money.
The O’Gorman Mahon, whose death has
just been announced by cable, was one of the
most remarkable and romantic figures amoDg the
Irishmen of the century. In 1829 he was O’Con-
nell’s lieutenant, and fought by the great
agitator’s side in the fierce struggle of the famous
Clare election which resulted in Catholic Emanci-
pation. He was then a young man and univer-
sally considered the handsomest man in Ireland.
An Irishman of the dashing, gallant type Lever
was so fond of depicting, he was equally successful
in the duel and the amour. A countryman of his
own writing of him asserts that nobody can
enumerate the number of times he has been “out”
—and the still larger number of occasions in
which he dispatched or received the cartel. After
a short career in Parliament his adventurous dis-
position led him to wander over all parts of the
world soldiering, sailoring, travelling, enjoying
adventure for its own sake. He had a hand in
building up one of those very shaky edifices —a
South American republic. Probably in reward
he was made High Admiral of its fleet
and Commander-in-chief of its army as well.
His personal appearance was certainly calcu-
lated to impress a Spanish-American population.
He had a striking face of the Corsair type,
which, it was said, the Protestant Gulnares
and the Catholic Medoras found equally
hard to resist. He was almost a giant in stature,
and with a grand seigneur air in all he said and
did, and, like the bold Irishman he was, knew
quite well his personal charms and powers of
fascination. He was a sort of modern Finn
M‘Caul, with the accomplishments of an admir-
able Crichton. In the election of 1879 he was re-
turned for the Clare electorate which he had
largely contributed to win for O’Connell half-a-
century before. Next to Mr. Gladstone, he was the
most attractive figure in the House of Commons
to the occupants of the strangers’ gallery. “ Tall,
erect as a pine, with huge masses of perfectly
white hair and a leonine face,” this colossal rem-
nant of O’Connell’s movement was a striking
feature among the agitators of a younger day.
His age was nearer 90 than 80, so that Gladstone
need not yet despair of that other term of office he
dreams of.


Business Announcements.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
Pitt Street.
B R U ]ST T O IPS
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
flea bo obtained throughout New South Walea,
Queensland, and Viotorla,
SYDNEY ... ... 84 Pitt Bon,
BRISBANE... ...Edwabd Stmm,
MELBOURNE ™ w Bp*sraß* Bnsw
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured 1
Ihe Greatest SuocessV consult i Chr °? io J* iseaBe
ol Modern Times. / l are Curable.
Hr, 3,3, EUSELMN, Consulting Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Disbasbs,
60 WILIIiM STREET, METRO ERNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (frkr) by whioh they oan be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete oure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more I
. [COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1880.
*0 H. E. Kugblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Soience, &o.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
Of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883. but, thinking it was only a severe oold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expeotorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to oonsult a medical man, and I
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the oure, which statement I did not believe, and
aooordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Inourable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
dootors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in Maroh, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
whioh I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
Skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
oulous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
ijie. i remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNTOHT
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Deolared before me this 6th day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
tar All Consultations Free. M
Notioe —lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given whioh
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curs
hot bbinq Effbctbd.
A iimsiev SEMIS?
So All Affllobed with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Dolorbux, Aching Pains In the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Faina when me
bottle of
DR. SOUTH AM'S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure In a few days!
The Australian Remedy. No ohange In dirt
MC6BSft?y» la Bottles, Is*, 2Ss 6d # , fis», ftafi Ills
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION,
?his Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
syes» It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Slight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tea-
[monlals from those who have recovered through
H agenoy oan be seen. Admitted by the Medical
faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
B. i. 1031, Pkanssceuttcal SManlit,
681 Georsre-atreet, omy.
WANTED, Files ol The Bulletin, for the
last nine years, Publisher, Bulletin
fthoe,
>Q--A.nsrid t ieiotiexj,
OOBNBB OF
l&r MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
m
03
&
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D, COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’a Hotel)
Proprietress,
THE " PLUM RAZOR.
-{ : }■
FOR PRIVATE USE is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires Grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor,
I.os. Gd. ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAVG & Al KEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
—— Nine Haircutters always Employed !
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
IU NTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man’* Watch. A Sound and Reliable Timekeeper. A Genuine English-
made Article, and. the Cheapest and Best Watch in the Market.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY.
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, AB!L & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washees, Gaskets &c., &e. Moulded to any Size. Rubber goods for all purposes.
t ists and Samples on Application.
SAtiC
In tw'iuence 0/ imitattom «/ TEE WORCESTfJICEiMJg
SA UC £ which &n calculated to dcmw the Public, £t& mi Perrtm
have to request that Purchasers m that that la&K m s9o°
bear » their Sigmtwrs thm^-
■£<a*
wiihm'l Which m M ef the vrigiml WOMimWMS'SMT
'\ SAUCE is gent&im-.
Ask for 'LEA and PERRUME Sauce, and sse Home m RVrtie/t&w, £ah*l, Ee&Bte ecstf
Stopfer. Wholesale and f&« Export hy She PropreeS&F*t W’s>rt«cSev; Cresse syzp
MUutssrM, tendon, &'*-; *nd by Gr**ert and tT'f'tevpv ek'evmghetfS She W#rl&
Recreation ! Instruction ! Amusement !
THE _
LAIEST
AND
MOST TASCINAIING
JtECREA 1 lON
is
pjmMn
FOR
AMATEURS,
TOURISTS,
SCIENTISTS,
CAPTAINS, &c.
m,
■°>cx
m
1
4 g
:
ra&=®2r
NOTHING
BETTER
THAN THB
CAMERA!
FOR
ARMY,
NAVY,
POLICE,
WAREHOUSEMEN,
&0., &c.
New Issue Illustrated Catalogue. Send 2d. stamp
LICHWEK & CO.,
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
AND
9 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
A new leligious weekly la spoken of in
Melbourne. It should be called The Plate, to
facilitate its circulation.
The Rev. Joseph Hay haa refused to pray
for rain, as desired by the Presbytery of Victoria.
Rain would spoil the hay, donchersee.
Three or four people have had their
pockets picked in Melbourne churches of late. An
old game this—upending sleepers.
Bristol Cathedral ia said to swarm with
rats. This knocks the bottom out of that old
aphorism about rats and sinking ships.
The question, ‘ ‘ How to keep our audiences
awake ?" was discussed at the Baptist Conference
held in Melbourne last week. We suppose it is
useless advising them to cease sending round the
plate.
A French bishop, recently deceased, left
behind him an essay on cremation, in which he en-
deavours to prove that, without the interment of
bodies for successive generations, the earth would
lose all fertility and power of reproduction.
A Sydney daily says:—“Sixty thousand
(00,000) natives in the South Sea Islands have been
converted to Christianity during the last 15 years.”
Pray, Mister Newspaper Man, can you tell us how
many missionaries have been converted —into long
pig— during that period ?
Assurance Companies.
TUB AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGii-
WENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated bjr Act of Parliament, 17 Via,,
No. IB.)
Registered Capital
Paid-up and Subscribed
CSI.BBB
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman,
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
Thlß Company receives deposits at the following
rates of Interest
For 8 years _ 7 per cent. I For 1 year _ 8 per oent,
For 8 months i per oent. | For 8 months. 8 per oent-
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on Its entire real and personal
property, including Its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by Instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auotlon and
Private Contract.
hiad owioi—io, &~ib"hunter street
JNO. 0. NEILD, Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1878,
CAPITAL,
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK
Sydney.
Melbourne Offices—lo, Collins Street Easts
Newcastle Offices —Hunter Rtaeet.
The Company grant immediate Advances u'pofi
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in’-
terest. Bills discounted daily,
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS i
3 months, 6 per tent.
® ii 7 ii
1* „ 8 „
And a Bonus deolared to Deposits of 13 months,
per oent. 6 months 1£ per oent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
Business Announcement.
Kinn
AUSTRALIAN
Christmas Card Serin.
Cabinet Size (with Appropriate Mottoes) 1
Is. Each; per Post, Is. Id.
THE MOST AUTISTIC SERIES PUBLISHED.
H. King, Photographer, 316 George St., Sydney,.
BETWEEN Q P.O. AND HUNTER STREETS.
TATTERSALL’S
KOXSTG& cnimiuimi
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities In
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one 1
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
FOR SALE.—Two grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply f
Bullsris Olho*


|HE BEST XMAS PUBLICATIONS !
“ Socialities, 1888.”
Centennial Number.
ONE SHIELING ; post, Is. 3d.
A charming Illustrated Work by the First Comic
Artists. 150 capital Woodcuts, numerous columns
of Humorous Letterpress ; also,
rmr mm,
Centennial Number.
SIXPENCE; post, Bevenpence.
No breakfast table is complete without a copy of
this justly popular work. Laugh and grow fat!
You cannot enjoy life if your digestive organs are
out of order. Punch’s Almanac promotes good
digestion. It laughs away all the ills that flesh is
heir to. Illustrated throughout its numerous pages.
tar All Booksellers and ALEX. M'KINLEY A CO.,
51 Hunter Street, SYIINKY.
BOSISTO’S ORIGINAL AND GENUINE
EUCALYPTUS OIL is the be jt Remedy
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica Sprains,
Chilblains, Whooping Cough, Asthma, Croup,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat, &o. Preserves furs from
moths. In the stable it is valuable tor broken
knees, cuts, &c., whilst it keeps off the attacks of
flies. Ask for Bosisto’s Parrot” brand, and
avoid imitations, which can only ead to disap-
pointment. Full directions with each bottle. At
all chcmistß. Bosisto’s " Parrot ' rand.
UPa.xsoxx’iS t Gxape | Sstlixxe.
TRADE MARK—"THE GREENWICH OBSERVATORY.”
Specially prepared from RIPE FRUIT , and is the best of all Fruit Salines.
HEALTH-G VUG, R£ FRESHING, INVIGOBATIHG.
A preventative of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
Protrietor :
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND.
Agents :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
PA'RSON'S GRAPE SALINE.
Grosvenor Hotel,
Grosvenor Hotel Co., Limited,
CHURCH HIU U, SYDNEY,
overlooking the Harbour.
rpHIS Magnificent Hotel is now open,
and will be conducted on the best
methods of similar American and Euro-
pean establishments.
It is centrally situated, is built on the
most elevated site in Sydney, and the
salubrity of its situation renders it
the Hotel par excellence for Tourists,
Families, Foreign and Intercolonial
Visitors.
Telegraph and Telephone Offices
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO has been expended in
Furniture.
It is lit throughout with Electric
Light and Gas, and has a Furnished
Smoke Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard" Roof, which is
reached by an Otis Travelling L'ft, and
from which are obtainable the Finest
Panoramic Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Grosvenor Drag will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now invited.
J. ROWAN, manager.
r 1
*-n ■
1
Telegraphic and other communications to be addressed to the Manager.
Cia.rez2-d.ora. Hotel, 2v£a,zzl3r_
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
: x :
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most rechercM
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hote at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
visitors comfortable,, and_her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. 1C 1 LMIN ST ER , ,C lar e n don ijHot eI , ““
"" Opposite OCEAN||BEACH, MANLY.
§ HCTEL,
LkUNCESTOI, TASMANIA.
tLEWBIO PHOTOENB. CO.
A, DELErSBMtr
8 BRIDCE ST.. SYDNEY.
Proprietor.
Wiiss, IWa liqaots & Imuu Cigars i Speeialitj
of
the
Souse. Cuisiae Fraacaise.
ftowlandi
McteaAdarOii
bim knran for nearlv 100 rears m the best and safest preserver, restorer end beautifies oil
or inputs, «*
nitftoraire ere corn nosed and which rain the health (fide Medical papers), will keep Ireah ana
avroeihathe hottest ha. a delicate an.
Mine offer turning grey, strengthens weak h*ix, eredicatesscurf or dendritf,anffl.lendersan*
lbueAs* atffc «ilkv rnrlv ana elossy; it also stmmlfttof sEi® growth of whi*k®r* wna mon»taciiei,
K 5* especially recammendoi for children as forming the basis of a beautiful head of hair, an®
stm also he had In a _
GOLDEN COLOUR,
arlihch, after great time and trouble, has teem especially prepared for th* useof
children and fair or grey-haired adults. Sizes 3s. ®S.; fe,; family bottles, equal w four small.
SO*. 6d.; and double that size, 21s.
ROWLANDS 9 (CALYDOR Is a healing and refreshing preparation tost
She face, hands and arms; it eradicates freckles, tan, sunburn, eczema, redness and roughness
of the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produces a beautiful and delicate
complexion.
ROWLANDS' ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevents an* arrests decay,
strengthens the gums, and gives a delightful fragrance to the breath. K*
ROWLANDS' articles, of 580, Hatton Garden, ILondon, and avoid spurious limitations and*
similar names.
Wholesale and Retail Agents—EtiiOTT Bbos., and ®. Pbossbb &tQo.,‘Sydney,
Sharkbites.
Way, C.J. of S.A., is importing stud
B&eep. A fellow must have something to fleece.
The champion hook-and-llne fisherman oi
Australia is an attorney. No wonder ; the bigges
shark always catches the most fish.
General Sherman’s son and Genera
“Stonewall” Jackson’s nephew are peaceful!;
studying law in the same office in America.
At Broken Hill a solicitor cross-eiaminec
a cabman with reference to a suggestion of in
ebriety on the part of a person concerned. Jehu’
reply to one of the questions was, “We most of u
take a drop now and again; I have carried you
home drunk before now.”
A Tenterfield paper reports that a loea
solicitor has shaken from his feet the dust of thai
town and gone to Brisbane. This is something
quite new. Ordinarily the solicitor doesn’t leave
the town before he has shaken all the “ dust ” from
the other people, and lodged it to his credit at the
bank.
The other day B. R. Wise appeared as
counsel in a case which, the N.S.W. Chief-Justice
mildly suggested, was a very trivial one to engage
the attention of the highest tribunal in the land.
Whereupon B.R.W promptly responded: “Yes,
your honour, it’s so paltry that the magistrate
refused to hear it, and we have come here to ask
you to make him.”
On January Ist, 1887, the N.S.W. Law
Almanac gave the names of seven counsel, learned
in the law, as Crown Prosecutors at Quarter Ses-
sions. Four of these—Edward Lee, Robert Pit-
cairn, John Dillon, and John J. Teece —are dead,
and one other is permanently invalided and re-
lieved of duty. The Bulletin rises to respect-
fully ask if hard work on circuit be the cause.
The N.S.W. Supreme Court decided a few
days ago, in the case of an alleged defaulting soli-
citor, that the complaining party having confided
to the Post Office his claim against the solicitor in
question, they (the Court) “could not assume he
had received it.” Yet all jury-summonses are
posted and the jurors are assumed to receive them
and for non-attendance are fined heavily. How
does Chief Justice Darley reconcile these two
opposites ?
The report of the Incorporated Law In-
stitute of N.S.W. makes excellent reading.
Amongst other matters represented to the Council
was the fact that the local barristers were raising
and making very high theirjees. The Secretary,
by instructions, wrote to the Attorney-General to
ask the latter to lay the matter before the Bar
Committee, but not even an acknowledgment was
received. Thus does the strongest of Trade-
Unions maintain its right to fleece the public.
One ©f the sections of the Legal Practi
tioners’ Bill now before the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly provides that it shall not be necessary
for a practitioner when appearing in court to
wear either bands, gown or wig ; but the passing
of this measure into law has been anticipated by
District Court Judge Wilkinson, who, recently
—during the trial of the cause, “ Hobson and wife
v. Weyman’’—allowed Mr. Lusk, barrister, to
appear for the plaintiffs without these habiliments.
Cabchem, Squeezem, Swindlebon, and
Downeycove were in partnership as solicitors in a
certain Australian city, and in the Vestibule of their
elegantly-appointed offices was a black-board with
mechanical hands indicating the sancta of the
several members of the firm. Swindleton died,
and a week or two afterwards a client called and
found that the hand that indicated the room of the
departed lawyer, whose name had not been
scratched from the board, pointed upwards.
“Ah!” said the client, “I think I will reverse
the position of that hand.” And he did, The
story ends here.
The lot of a solicitor is nob always a
happy one. Quite recently, an eminent Q.C
accepted from a Sydney firm of good
standing a brief marked with the liberal
fee of 50 guineas. The barrister had already
received some 250 guineas in the same matter.
A few minutes before the case was called
on in court, the “ man of the long robe ” pounced
upon the firm’s clerk (himself a solicitor) and
peremptorily demanded his shekels. The clerk
explained that the client had not yet advanced the
necessary “oof.” “Well,” thundered the be-
wigged one, “unless I get my fees I leave the
court.” So he got the cheque.
A fib of insanity came over a well con-
nected bank official, and while struggling with his
madness, he, so the story goes, extracted £2OOO
from the coffers of his company and “ blewed ” it.
When he developed into a hopeless bankrupt his
reason returned. In the overwhelming bitterness
of his grief, he sought the advice of a well-known
attorney. The lawyer listened to his story, and
startled the embezzler by asking if another £4OOO
could be grabbed. Nothing was easier. That
day the second sum was handed to the lawyer,
who immediately waited upon the manager of the
victimised bank, explained that his client had
“lifted” £OOOO and gambled it away. Then he
told the manager that the relatives of the clerk,
who were very poor people and would have to
mortgage their little all to raise the money, would
subscribe £2OOO by way of refund, provided
nothing was said about the matter and a certifi-
cate given to the effect that the embezzler left the
bank of his own accord. This was later on agreed
to, and a dividend declared —£2000 to the bank,
£lOOO to the attorney, and £lOOO to the good
young man. That is what we call a real legal
adviser.
Brief Mention.
Yonll-tide —the Yarra.
The marriage-contract—debt.
A penal settlement—A hanging.
Signs of the Times—Three Balls.
Killing work—Kangaroo-shooting.
Mystery of a Hansom Cab—A legal fare.
Sir Julius Vogel’s novel—A Loan in
London.
- Fire Brigades’ demonstration—the Baptist
Conference.
Colonial policemen will never want whilst
sugar can be got out of the beat.
Charity covereth a multitude of sins, and
that’s what it’s largely used for in Sydney.
A lady advertises in an English paper that
she wishes to sell a magpie because of its “pro"
faneness. ”
A man named Fisher has been convicted
of perjury in New Zealand. Fishers are invari-
ably liars.
Rock-Bait has been struck in N.S.W. We
are glad of this as it is apparently useless to mine
for “ sugar.”
Several small boys have won honour and
fame in Victoria of late by rescuing drowning
companions. Boys will be buoys.
A Melbourne man has got into trouble
through telling a priest to go to Sheol. We know
of no better field for a priest’s labours.
A lodger has been found dead in his bed
in a Melbourne boarding-house. “ Previous to
retiring,” says a local paper, “deceased ate a
heavy supper.” Suicide.
A Hay (N.S.W.) paper says, in declining
the services of a humorous contributor, that it has
a man who can be quite as funny as the circula-
tion of the paper requires.
An insurance-canvasser has been hurt by
a premature blast in a Newport quarry (Mel-
bourne). He saw the stone coming, but, unfor-
tunately, had not time to turn the other cheek.
Editor G. M. Reed, of the Auckland
(N.Z.) Hebald was a member of the Queensland
Parliament in 1865.
Manager Terry, of the Australian Star
(Sydney), was at one time editor of a Marlborough
(N.Z.) paper, and was on one occasion just beaten
for a seat in the N.Z. Legislature.
This is a warning to wives. A woman,
whose address we have mislaid, was grumbling at
her husband one day some years ago, when a flash
of lightning arrived just where she was standing,
and killed her on the spot.
Many of the beat sporting writers in the
Australias are compositors. Included in this
category are Chapman (“ Augur,” of the Austra-
lasian), Andy Jackson (“Hippona,” of the Auck-
land Stab), and Tom Walker (“ Mazeppa ”), editor
of the N.Z Tube Recobd.
A Wellington (N.Z.) lunatic escaped from
the asylum, and, on being chased by the police,
waded into the harbour up to the chin, and deified
them to take him. On being informed, however,
that he was expected at dinner at Government
House, he consented to come ashore. How C. M.
Characteristic ! We’ll swear that that lunatic
once lived either at Potts Point or Toorak.
The Dunedin (N.Z.) Herald has sold
itself off for £96o—book-debts, plant, copyright,
and all. It cost about £27,500 during its pre-
carious existence, and it broke pretty nearly every
one who took a hand in the enterprise. Among
the victims was Tom Bracken, M.P., the
New Zealand poet, whose “ Lays of the Land of
the Maori and the Moa” showed that he was
fitted for something better than a clammy evening
paper in a one-horse city where it rains every day
The widow of the late ex-Marshal Bazaine,
who died recently in exile at Madrid, was the
second wife of the disgraced French general. His
first wife, who was one of the most fascinating of
the bevy of beautiful women who constituted the
entourage of the Empress Eugenie, died under
terribly tragical circumstances in 1864. Her hus-
band was in Mexico at the time. Mme. la
Marechale, who was considerably younger than
her soldier husband, was as frail as Bhe was fair.
Her escapades brought her into contact with men
of the type of the notorious Pranzini, and one
morning in the summer of 1864 her dead body was
discovered in a house of questionable repute
in one of the suburbs of Paris. The
aspect of the room left no doubt as to
the orgies which had preceded the crime.
Every effort was made by the Government
to keep the matter from becoming public,
but to no effect, for the news soon leaked out.
Bazaine was passionately attached to his lovely
wife, and had blind confidence in her virtue.
Napoleon dispatched one of his favourite aides-de-
camp to Mexico, entrusting him with the task of
communicating Mme. Bazaine’s death to her hus-
band. At the same time he adopted the extra-
ordinary measure of laying an embargo on all
ships about to sail for Mexican ports, and pre-
vented the dispatch of any of the ordinary
letter or newspaper mail by the steamer which
bore his messenger to Bazaine. Unfortunately
the vessel was greatly delayed by bad weather.
In the interim, Bazaine happened to light
on a Paris paper which had found its way
into Mexico via the United States, and the
first thing which met his eyes was the heading of
a paragraph entitled, “ Assassinat de la Mare-
chale Bazaine.” No detail was spared in the ac-
count given of her murder and of all the attendant
circumstances. Bazaine never uttered a word,
but became terribly pale, and withdrew to his
tent, taking the newspaper with him. For the
space of three days he remained invisible to all,
refusing either to eat or drink. Then he issued
forth again among his troops, and went about his
business as if nothing bad happened, never by one
single word or act referring to hiß murdered wife.
It was as if she had never existed.
A Port Darwin (N.T.) Chinaman Is called
Ah Kit Chew. This is a regular sneezer of a
name.
The Paris Temvs, which reflects the
opinions of the French Ministry of War, says that
the German cavalry is superior to that of France.
This admission of weakness would seem to indi-
cate that the revanche is not yet.
This, from a Sydney evening paper, re-
quires a lot of anxious thought:—“ Room to let,
gentleman 12 x 14.” Rather a largish sort of a
chap, we should say.
Clerk (to busy employer) : “ There Is a
gentleman outside, sir, who says that he is a very
old friend of your father’s.” Busy Employer •
“Tell him I’m sorry, but my father is dead.”—
Life -


Hotels.
Centennial Hotel,
SCOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
Newcastle.
Wine*, Beers , and Spirits a Speciality.
Hot, Ooid, and Showbb-Baths on each Flat.
BILLIARDS ! BILLIARDS!
TilS Hotel 1b now opened, and admitted to be
the Beat Fitted and Furnished Hotel in the
Colony. Ib la beautifully situabed, being directly
opposite the Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to the
Railway Station, and convenient to all the Public
Ruudiogs: A porber meets all brains and steamers,
betters and telegrams promptly attended to.
WALTER SIDNEY, Proprietor.
Mount Morgan hotel, Queens-
land.
tinder the distinguished patronage of His Ex-
cellency Sir A. Musgrave, K.O.M.G. Aocommo
nation .» <5O visitors. Two-atorey buildings. From
“he balconies a splendid view can be obtained of
the celebrat jd mountain of gold, and within a few
'hinnies' .valk of the company’s works. Passenger
mail o laches daily irom Rockhampton and
K'bra railway-stations. W. MONOKTON, Pro-
prietor, o l the firm of Monckbon and 00.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURE.
Opposite Railway Tebminus, Spenobb Stbebt.
VISITORS patronising the above hobel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
W 1 had all modern improvements, such as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public
room, smoking-room, hob and cold baths, shower
»nd needle baths passenger elevator, electric bells,
telephone, and all other hobel requisites, not to be
surpassed In Australia. Visitors can rely upon
being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
.OJPEOIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
Q advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
Charter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
•he office, George Street, or from the runners in
’he street. Y
Medical.
OR. SPEER’S
A MEIU 3AN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(between 3eorge and York Streets.) P.O. Box 020. Dr,
' i )e <:r ’* * regular Graduated Physician, eduoated at
~ : * tv ard College, U.S. (f or confirmation see New Zealand
( , aze!te . January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
ai!e tte, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
j'G’ 8 ‘o the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
, hAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
a » s P‘ lals of the United States, which enables him to treat
hi* n mpUinta with excellent results. All applying to
\ f 11 Vl h receive his honest opinion of their complaints,
a, ; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
£o[’? ,l dve cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
o r ~ •. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
•h nK ° disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
a e ’her words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
'hove l a result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
he i ’ he P ro Per remedies, therefore ha guarantees
it distinctly understood that he does not olaim
he el i orm l m P 333 ibilities, or to have miraculous power,
thn>d' . to be a skilled and suaoes3ful physioian
8|.,,°, r '?hly Informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
b*kl- L LEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
detail 1 distance oan, by explaining their troubles in
Hot >8 treated at home. The course of treatment will
ti 0n n \ay way interfere with their business. Examina-
Spuj. ' n d advioe free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
*!• D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
1q a L ’ 8 ’ Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 020. Office hours,
l 0 (n,; to 12 a.m.; 2to 4and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
,0 11 a.m. only.
FftEE
PRI3URIPTIONB are to
r - be found In the “LIGHT AND
l>jj ®>” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DE
q,. *'TY and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of
ISi !) °ok will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
K
mps. Address-
S. WARD & 00.,
Sydney Pharmaoy,
76 Hunter Street Sydney.
Eucalypte
Victory O intment
TREE OF LIFE.
t?w e2fe?oJg-
Business Announcements.
SKATE KOIIERS.
HIURKEY BOXWOOD, guaranteed the best in the Ameii-
L can market, at the following low prices:—
1J in. Boxwood, in not less than 10,000 lots .. $l5 per lot
Through rate to Australia about:
Address-
800. per 1000 rollers.
JOHN T. lose,
182 & 184 S. Clark -street, Chicaoo, 111., U.S.A.
BEATS.
HATS.
HATS.
EXPIRATION OF LEASE.
10 per cent. DISCOUNT for one month ©NLY.
Our noted Guinea Silk Hats at 17s.
Our noted Half-guinea Felts at Bs. 6d.
-Straws, 3s. 6d., 4s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. at 2s. 9d., 3p.
6d., and 4s. 6d.
Pullover Cork Helmets, 12s. 6d at 10s. 6d.
MORLEY’S BEST HOSIERY at cost price.
UMBRELLAS, &c., at cost.
3. F. PRIDDY and Co.,
138 GEORGE STREET, 438
(nearly opposite Lassetter’s)
AND
>62 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
<6opoooTo Land.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
\nd Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
itreet, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on ,
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
Tor its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight ir
mid. Send your full address, and we will send Pas'
Tree One Copy, given away for the next Six Month'
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
D
YMOCK’S GREAT EXHIBITION OF CHRISTMAS
CARDS AND PRESENTATION BOOKS.
Largest and Cheapest Assortment in Australia!
100,000 Volumes of Books, and 70,000 Christmas Cards-
SEND FOR DYMOCK’S MARVELLOUS PACKETS !
ts. BEST VALUE IN THE WORLD! “fa
Grand Assortment for Is., Worth 10s.
The 2/6 is the Amazement of all, Worth 209.
The 55., Unequelled for beauty and Assortment worth £5
Dyinock (book arcade), 142 King St., Near Tram
mNuwturing-.matters
GEO RGE STREET
£M
s
D
Y
N
SORTERS OF Alt THE
ne west shapes:
Lnd At
ALBERT STREET, BRISBA^*
Baking
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR
DEGREE OF MERiT
■'
-3>
IStHEBEST IMTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUCHS
•.RE'CE i VEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
PRIZE MEDAL
Manufactured byJames Channon
H arbour S T Sydney
Sold by All Cro cel's and Storekeepers
Medical,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
s
w
r
a
*
3$
vb
m
Are nniveraally ad-
mitted to bo worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
W ind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dim-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills,Flashings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
Setite, Shortness of
roath, CostiTencss,
Scurvy and Blotches
oh the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
Wag Sensations, &c. The first dose ’rrill giro relief
in twenty minutes.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humours* and
brisw about all that is required. No female should
Its without them. There is no Medicine to bo found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any" obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
wffl soon restore females of all ages to sound and
rotoust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefit# which
an ensured by their use. *
Far a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
beet guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BJESOHAM’S PILLS have the Largeit Sale of any
Pataxt Medicine in the World,
Beecham's Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheesing, 4c., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprire the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECH AM’B
DOUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. Hd. and 2s. 9d. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
NJB.—Full directions are given vrith each box.
THE BAhK OF NEW ZE iLAND,
Sydney Branch*s:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £l,OOO 000
Reserve Fund 500 000.
The Bank has Ag- nts in all the principal cities
hroughout the United States of Am* rica and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
S
OIENOE CONQUERS DISEASE
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mobb MERCURY OB othbb Noxiou*
Stomachic Contaminations.
Or. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Ch. M., &0.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
.idney, Nervous, and Spsoial complaints; registered bj
-o Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the onl)
■gally qualified praotitioner advertising in Australia whr
ride the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, ha
established the
“ fletorian Progressive medical Institute/'
63, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
ir the scientific and effectual oure of all phases of Ne«
ins Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous
lead, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors
nsptlons, Premature Decay, Inoapaoity for Stud}
i Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affeo
one, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid oon
ttlone of the system. It matters not what yom
roubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get hie
onest opinion of your complaint. If it is onrable, ht
dll tell you so i if not, he will tell you also, for he will
Ot undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting i
ire. It will cost you nothing for oonsultation, so satisfy
mr» that the Dr. understands your oase.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
’aflerers can be treated equally well at a distance
N. 8.—1 wish It distinctly understood that I do not olaln
,3 perform Impossibilities, or to have mlraoulous powei
f olaim only to be a skilled and successful Physiol*'
beroughly informed in my speciality.*
Note Address—
HOMES!!?! HEDICIE IHSTITUTi
88, Fmndbbb Stbhbt W., Mhibouenb.
fr Mo tonnection with any other Medical Inititute in
Australia Bo* S6B, G.P.O.
FOR SALE —Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers Apply
Bulletin Office.
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stoi t.
FIRST QUALITY.
M
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBIT lON
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Balchin, Johnston & Oo
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney.
Robert butcher a 00.
have REMOVED their Wholesale V. me ami
Iplrit Business to
692 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in &o«! out, of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
D*'RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into tt.e
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a suppi y,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
I, STEPHENSON
BAS ON BALK—'
VINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VA'IR,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS STABLE
BUCKETS, fco,
COOPERAGE,
87 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Street*
%FTl* *tf**fi
ww fright**,
Kouttcta iiifwiltim,
l Fityd'e Meard Elixir did this,
luwdl trill do it on either bald
• /<«& I or bare fat** Forces
heavy Moutiach» in from 3 to
> 4 foeekM and never fail*, 20,000'
OamrlelMi.
beards, having used lto3 pkts. A'o injury, easily applied, eerlah
in effect. Packets, la. Bd. sash. tfor 3s. Bd., pest paid, tern) wwto
•over, ffree from observation, Address, PraasSougtaao Sols Apes*
3m 13 0, Q F.O , Ipi.-vy, If. 8. W.
i
WALDHR, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin
• SBfl PITT STREET.
Marquees on Hire.
r
JMBRELLAS
SE-CCVEFtEO.
STUDY ECOJWEg
•ml
.Bare four Umbrella
corered. and yottf
ParaaOls re-lined and mWis■Sglti
to New. * 5
J. SULLIVAr^
541 George Street
Brickfield Bill, bettrwe
Birerpool and liathurrt
Parasol* made to mate© K‘"■*
tumea Repair* neatly ej4w«»jy4
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL."
D BERNARD’S Pictcbb and Moulting
• Stoke, 899 George-street (opposite Royal
totel), ia acknowledged to be the Best and
hoapeßt in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
to., carefully atretohed and mounted. Re gilding
qual to new. Mounts out with real gold edges,
pedal attention paid Bchool Drawings. Plush
■ork a speciality. Inspeotiqa Invited.
r IFE PRESERVATION!
BY
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 LoRBDAta Stbbbt East, Mhlbodbnb.
This work is a medical treatise describing ao-
urately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, In-
liscretions and other enervating influences with
t leir associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
in health, and replete with valuable and tangible
□formation that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervouß, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quaohs.
Price per mail Bs. 6d, (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Punlishing
00., 4 A'Beckett Street West, Melbourne.


BEHAN’S
Black Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
id, urns t k
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Scars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGE ;
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS aud ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Wholesale i
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co , S. Hoffnung
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co., W, H. Simpson
and Son, 883 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Brisbane ; E. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
S. BEHAN, V.S., 33 Pitt Street, Redfern.
PRICE ... Bs. 6(L Per Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the ciivlhed world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recornised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beueflcient action is as once
ree'gnised. Fullest directions are suDplhdfor thf ir use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., Lor don. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street! London, they are
spurious.
IMPORTER OF
WINHS, SPIRITS, BEERS <ScC.,
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
&jO.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest arid, Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in woodJ, Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champ ignes, g@T All B ands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
tsr SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' REFRESHMENT ROOM anil LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
_ . y _
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS
J
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOUENE AND LONDON.
illustrated catalogues with price list, free on application.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
A. BOWMAN 1
LONDON MADB
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30a. to 21b.
349 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Near Tatter** 11 '*'*
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long **
any other leather.
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON'
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
LONDON FASHIONS
Fresh Goods Every Fortnig^
MASON BROTHERS,
WM
m
26 S ( ™«’kwTSTREl®
SYDNEY*
Have always in Stock for !g
to the Trade and Whole
Buyers Only>
IRONMONGERY
general h ,WAKK '
GLASS, CHINA,
EARTH EjST WAR®'
WINES, BEERS & STIR ITS
BULK A MEBcffiM*
JOHN WAIJKER
Old Highland V 11,5K5
,T. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. (MAYEN’S
Schnapps and Gene
A. MELVIN and SO>S
Edinburgh Rale A* ■
■Williarno. IB’o.lletrd., 34; 2 G-eoxg'e Street, S^d.rxeS 7 '-
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
FANS, EASELS, BRACKETS, PURSES, CARD CASES & JAPANESE CURIOS.
BALL PROGRAMMES. CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THB
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
VICTORI A.
MELBOURNE
Richmond ~
Windsob
EALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
BTAWELL
ECHUOA
BEECH WORTH ..
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL..
SALE
MARYBOROUGH..
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanaton Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
.. ... Swan Street.
.. Chapel Street.
.. ... ... Sturt Street.
... Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
.4 ~. .4. 66 Moorabool Street.
.. ... ... Main Street, next Aeachimann’a.
.. ... ... High Street.
.. ... ... Camp Street.
.. ... ... Gray Street.
.4 ... ... Fairy Street.
4, ... ... Foster Street.
... ... High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE
colon*
a-. IF 1 . PICKLES <S> SOWS, Carriage BiaS-l <s~o* 0 '
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
City Repository: -6, 7,8, 11 LATROBE STREET WEST, MELBOO B
Metropolitan Manplactorys - 32, 34, 38 BRUMSWICK STREET, FITZROJ^^
~ COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
NEW TABLE —TONTINE POMCIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE
PREMIUMS PAID beinu RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival, FULL VA**
IN TONTINE SURPLUS KW Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
“ N ervous Debility.” A Free Medical Book.
Herb RASMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Diseases,
Will send (cost free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-Cure for Nervous Debility and
Diseases. It gives special advice to all of sufferers. Address -
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVE H POOL STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders
Finishers, Plumbers, Gasfittebs, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Mediaeval
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels. a \ t &
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 a tipW^asiP
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of all
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hos
BOM ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore «« ad »
&0
META*-
