

I .J°UR
®OCER FOK
voooo aMiTvro
i. 8. FRY & SONS, Bristol, Lohdoh ahd Stdnrt.
“ An ordinary cup contain* more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter."—LAMCW*
TAILORING COMPANY
ARE THE
ARCEST TAILORS IN THE COLONIES.
™ for Patterns and Self-Measurement Chart.
I Fit Guaranteed or Money Returned.
OrLl3r Bretancli. in liTe-w So-cutln. TTT'a.les
CORNER OF
Nney
1
Sydney and George Street
Arcade.
99 Bourke St., North Side
°hrke Street, South Side
%
I Eastern Market, Bourke St.
h
: °hsdale Street
' 97 and 99 Bourke St., North Side
96 Bourke Street, South Side
Corner Eastern Market, Bourke "'St.
84 Lonsdale Street
HEAD
2 9 Basinghall
OEEICE :
Street, London.
The Bulletin


IT?
ms
tOWjIiRHCTiOHS
TO
arr
TO BA
ffl
m
IXSOPSONS
a
30,
c
V
V
jSIR ROGER!
IXSONS
E. 13. MILES.
MUTW9 AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Mining) Kxohanse,
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
NHULTOrS
FRUIT
4IVER COMPLAINT positively cured by
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured
sot merely relieved, and we can prove what we say.
There are no failures and no disappointments.
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cures al
BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION
»nd DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve
Ilstress from too hearty eating, correct DIS-
ORDERS of the STOMACH, stimulate the
&IVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
Bxtract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
11s possible for a Fill to be.
Sold Everywhere. Price. Is. 3d.
0. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
I F
PRESERVATION;
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Stbbbt East, Mblboobnb.
This work Is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
Information that is of incalculable use to all
Bufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable ourative treatment without tne aid of
quacks. -
Price per mall 3s. 6d. (any oolonlal stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
McLEAN BBOS., BIGG * CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
SIS GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
A
O
»■
■v
%
3hK
iX
X*
o
F/ 7
O
REG?
H
<fc
%
1 \
Dm\i* %vrVbk VMUm, i&Xtw'totlYxtt-vnttlYtUiV, KSbtt U«tfav&U«Xv
SUIOIKO-FUIXKS wakb, otitlbkx, toous,
S BAB OOOKXKR BTOYSB l-UtONIS VUITOHBK B. 3BAKB k WALKBKt,
BRADFORD*B WASHING IIAOKINKB. *»., ICO.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERT HOUSE.
FLEA'S FUES-BI
COCKROACHES'*
At the sameti
HARM LESSTO BIRD
rOWLS OR OTHiga J
ANIMALS -i 'M
LLNOXIdUSINSEC
- ~r-** r> < i ‘
isauyTOEs.
DOGS
■?*
lf£
wf
v
t^ v \r
O' xA <& Jt? ;
c
a°>V> >^ T^;
FELTON’ G 111 M WAD E
kfi r / i . Kit «•
FELTON’C> IMWAD
- MEIEM * NE
NST A3STKD YSS
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and
the numerous imitations.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
■abeerlbed Capital .... £549,151
Fald-ap Capital « _ - _ £240,554
total laconic lait Half Year ... £809,534
DEPOSITS 6 Pi: Cent for TWSLTE MPHTHS.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Pomona who daaira to put by email sum* of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to aoooaa INTEREST upon such roma at a FAIR RATE, and for
SVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
ihU BBANOI dm tha very beat opportunity. Dapositora in thia branoh
receive FIVE per cant, par annum upon their Fatly Balance.
AK?LE PU'DS for Borrowers. lEEKS LIEEEH,
/•*
■■WEW
. • 'jilt,; :W' : .
>■-•'
:• > Kl ' 'vs..
■.•■• ■. .vv; -ii' v' •''
’■SS.
„ ! f lit I 11 . ’
_ . _ '.:■■■ ■tv •..! : 1 ■ •.••.• S ■ .■ .v
f. jl|;;; ■; ; v. g .■ ■ ■
. ~ -—j*- —— c »!? ■’•■"-'V'!.- 'I
" ' -Vl v '*•*■
*1 •
o«u•* far v ‘
3- * vCv'^--
. ‘ :j! ' :pfe
I
- - . S . / ; fSL !_*
premie^
BUILDING ASSOCIATION
54 COLLINS STREET &
<25 Contributing Sh 3^.,
OAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon P^ 0
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these
p
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with 0 }p -
4-1 air h°^ C uSO
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to tne 0 C
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares re
. . CooW’*
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 yea*
c
Horn. JOHN NIMMO, M.P., J.P., - - A
JAMES SIIUAMS, M.P., J.P.,
l^tcv
ipntwp. i
igfr
~^ s -'---
THE
Federal coffee Pala
•. v CORNER OF I
ZEaZirrgr Collins Streets, Iv^elT oo’O^
Containing 560 ROOMS, I* now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Viators-
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnlsh cd ' a
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisi» e
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL «« GROUND FL
01
With excellent Menii, presided over by an experienced CM/, assisted by a civil and obliging s -'
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and
HOT, OOI,I> and SHOWEIt BATHS
RECEPTION
of
p
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE.
itO' .
kEP^ P jf*
TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY
George Cohen


The Bulletin
Vol 9—No. 456
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1888.
Price, 6d.
Mr. G. T. A. Lavater: The Exhibition Secretary.


NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Jiote, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
ban have Ti e Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
(or a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
pity The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
In the hands of our carriers, with wham we do not wish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
National Australian Newspaper,
s< Australia for thk Australians.”
Ueoprietors l BULLETIN NEWSPAPER OCX,
Limited,
PUBLISHED O-NCE A WEEK..
iAI I & Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, oaiy).
per Annum ... £1 0 >}
Half-yearly ... ... 012 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communication*
i iv be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
- Correspondence" column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other
t- srse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
s'alian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
r-ngth, or say 8000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
oemvmunications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when,
tne address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we.
uesire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
ave are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
9f such MSS.
ffieTZbxxlldfoii.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1888.
Home News for Australia.
To the ordinary Australian citizen, anxious,
\ hile winning a competence in this new
land, to learn something of the great social
and political movements goiDg on in the Old
World, the news daily dribbled through the
} apers in the shape of European telegrams
or periodically served up as “ European gos-
t ip ” in the form of letters from special cor-
r espondents is very remarkable. He is de-
sirous, say, of hearing how the momentous
q lestions, which in these days so impera-
tively demand an answer, are likely to be
b jttled—whether, in fact, society is to be re-
c instituted on a new basis, or whether those
brave men struggling for a more equitable
distribution of comtort in old lands are
doomed to go down once more before the
s ill compact ranks of Conservatism. Bear-
i ig this in mind, it is doubtful if the news
usually cabled across a hemisphere is of such
r. character as to greatly assist the average
c ilonist in forming a trustworthy opinion
t 1 in earning events in the old home or in the
( >untries adjoining it. At the head of one
j lumal’s telegraphic summary, for instance,
no finds “ Birth of a Princess. At 2 a.m.
t > day the event occurred so long looked for
with painful interest, the accouchement of
i he Queen of . A fine princess was
i he outcome.” Turning, with some pardon-
able Irritation, to another journal remark-
able for its telegraphic enterprise, our colonist
on : —“ Latest news from Europe.
1) jath of an Earl and Countess.” This in-
j ormation by no means allays the reader’s
i lereasing rancour —a rancour which quickly
1 urns to acerbity on finding in a third broad-
sheet: —“ London, Wednesday. This morn-
i ig her Majesty the Queen walked a long
distance without a stick. The happy event
caused a considerable sensation in Court
circles,” followed by “The Prince of Wales
i i in Upper Austria, shooting bears.”
« *
We are far from saying that the foregoing
i ;ems are without interest ; but it is an in-
i erest confined either to the parties imme-
diately concerned or to a small and privi-
leged circle. To one who has had to trust to
a stick for support, there are few things
more pleasant than being enablad to dis-
p mse with such aid if only for a short
« istance. It is by no means improbable, too,
i hat the appearance of their Royal Mistress
without her customary companion would
) ave an exhilarating effect on domestic
< llinals whose term of office might expire
with the Sovereign. But it is open to argu-
ment whether the fact that even the chief of
i io Executive forgot or mislaid her walking-
i ikk is of sufficient Intrinsic gravity to be
t ole graphed to the Antipodes. Take, again,
i oe incident concerning the Heir-Apparent.
We give in to none in our respect for the
I'rince of Wales—a respect which bids fair
to become mellowed into admiration as the
years go by and the natural gaiety of hi
youth gradually gives place to the thought*
ful sobriety of middle-age. That he is fond
of the chase no one who has watched hia
career will deny. When the news reached
London some years ago that the Prince, then
in India, “ had killed a pig,” none rejoiced
more than we at such prowess. It showed,
at least, that the old Yiking blood
in his veins, for all its apparent languor,
was still highly corpuscled. The Pall Mall.
'Gazette, it is true, and a few other journals
which might have known better, circulated a.
dull poem with the stupid refrain “He killed
—he killed a pig.” The rumour was also,
circulated that H.R. H. was in a howdali on
the back of an abnormally tali eLphant when
the affair occurred, so that the danger from
a vagrant pig was reduced to a minimum.
All this is of little moment now, and would,
nothave beenreferred tobutfortheill-advised.
desire of London correspondents to make.
Australians believe that their future sove-
reign, as he increases in years and rotundity,
rises from pigs to bears. Let us not be mis-
understood. We do not deny that the.
Prince has gone to Upper Austria ; nor do.
we think it improbable that, should he.
remain loog enough, he or some of his suite,
may, perhaps, get near enough to sho.t a,
bear, as, at this season of the European year,
the animals might be surprised in a drowsy
state on their way to winter quarters.
Besides, rifles are now sighted to over 2000
yards, so that there is always a contingency
that a bear may be hit without much danger
to the sportsman. What ve wish ti point
out is, that in the United Kingdom of the
present, questions far transcending in im-
portance the holiday movements of the
Prince of Wales arise daily and press for
solution. Regarding the death of an earl
and countess it should not be forgotten that
sooner or later death comes to all. Besides,
there appears among certain classes to be a
growing feding of wonder, not that such
people should die, but that they should be
allowed to live.
Let us now turn to some of the news sent
not by cable but by carefully-prepared
London and Pati3 letters to many of the
great Australian dailies. Writing from the
British capital one special correspondent
says:—“Several fair American maids and
matrons have, as usual, been conspicuous in
the royal set which includes the Prince of
Wales. A new sport has, it seems, been
started at this fashionable continental resort
[Homburg]. Certain gentlemen backed
themselves to race with wheelbarrows, each
wheelbarrow to contain a lady. One of the
most desperate contests was between Mr.
Munroe Ferguson, M.P., and Lord
Spencer. Mr. Ferguson won, but only
through an accident. Lord Spencer came
to grief with his barrow and its fair
passenger.” There are few more exciting
contests than a barrow-race, even when the
vehicles are empty. What a struggle of this
kind must b 8 when a lady is in the turn-out
and a lord at the handles is more than we
dare say. That excitement among the well-
born runs high as the barrows run quickly is
extremely probable. It is doubtful, how
ever, whether titled ladies are ever seen to
less advantage than when in a conveyance of
this kind—particularly when it turns over.
In such circumstances it is next to impossible
for the fair insider to preserve her dignity or
the bystanders their countenances. The
stately etiquette of the old noblesse, that
aimed at the suppression of all signs of
emotion, would have become relaxed on such
an occasion. All this we readily admit. And
yet, it can scarcely be denied that, with
ominous signs of coming strife, political,
social, and military, in the air—with
doctrines being broached whose acceptance
would mean a fundamental change such as
the world has not previously seen, there
might have been something found for Aus-
tralian readers besides an account of aristo-
cratic wheelbarrow-races.
* » *
Turn we now to France, a land which has
played no unimportant part in the world’s
history—a country whose metropolis, second
in size and first in magnificence among the
world’s capitals, has looked upon scenes of
human splendour and savagery rivalling
those of Imperial Rome herself. Next year
in Paris is to be celebrated the centenary,
not of the landing of a batch of wretched
convicts and cruel taskmasters, but of the
greatest event in the annals of mankind.
We have no hesitation in saying that the
Revolution was second to no previous or
subsequent uprising in its far reaching re-
sults. It unfortunately happens that no
nation is so ignorant as the English of the
history, not alone of other lands, but of its
own. The way British scribblers—it would
be absurd to call them historians—have
treated of that great occurrence and its
sequel is only to be equalled in absurdity by
the credulity that swallowed it. Indeed, it
is not too much to say that even at the pre-
sent moment the sympathies of nine English-
men out of ten are with the cruel dynasty
and the cruel church of the ancien regime
rather than with the millions of wretches
who could not call their souls their own—
whose right, indeed, to live at all was ques-
tioned by the Seigneur’s famous Je ne vois
pas la necessite. Remembering all these
things, it will be readily conceded that the
ne vs from such a country should be of a
gravity commensurate with the events that
have taken and are taking place there.
What do we Australians get 1 Listen:
“The Countess de Paris, who had adopted
the red carnation as a symbol of her hus-
band’s party has rejected this flower, of
which Boulanger and his friends have pos-
sessed themselves. She has chosen in its
stead * the French rose,’ has had 15,000
exquisite little golden roses—flowers, leaves,
and stem —produced by a leading goldsmith
of this city, and is sending them to the
leaders of the Orleanist party.” Close upon
this comes : “She” (the Queen of Spain)
■“ has just swum across the Bay of Sebastian,
half a mile, in three-quarters of an hour,
accompanied by a favourite lady of honour,
four men servants, and a boat. . . . The
little King is delighting all beholders with
the royal salute he is learning to make, and
very prettily”
* * *
How M. Boulanger and his clientele
managed to secure a grip on the red carna-
tion and hold it, we are not informed. We
are also left in doubt as to why the Countess,
having lost her blossom, did nit fall back on
£ome emblem, such as the cauliflower, that
would appeal to the stomachs as well as the
sentiments of her supporters. The plant
we have named may be unassuming and
homely, but, at all events, it is wholesome
and stimulating. Caesar assures us—and
none should know better—that “armies fight
upon their bellies.” What is true of an
army is true of a political party, so that if
the Countess de Paris had chosen the vege-
table and sent 15,000 of the real articles to
her husband's followers, instead of imita-
tion gold ones, there is little doubt
that his cause would not lack sup-
port. Jacques Bonhomme, for all his
Ga iras and mar chons, is not above the bland-
ishments of succulent nourishment. Con-
cerning Her Majesty of Spain it is hard to
come to any definite opiaion without the
chance of doing a grave injustice. Queens
of that favoured country have been so erratic
in their habits for some considerable time
that hardly anything they do need cause
much surprise. The late sovereign Isabella,
it will be remembered, occasionally indulged
in little peculiarities that seat a smile from
Lapland to Algiers. Running over the long
list of Spanish moi.archs, male and female,
since the bigot Philip gave the brave Nether-
landers to sword and flame, and would have
done the same by Eagland but for good luck,
the opinion is apt to intrude that if they
could all have been placed in a batch well
outin the Bay of Biscay, and told to get
ashore the best way they oould, the world
would have been none the worse. It is re-
assuring, of course, to be told that the little
king is improving in the salute. It is almost
certain, however, that he has much yet to
learn before his throne is quite safe.
Spaniards have au awkward habit of now
and then turning on their heaven-sent rulers
and giving them a prolonged furlough. The
mortifying thing in connection with all these
vulgar details is, that while old land-marks
are being swept away and old societies shaken
to their very foundations, we Australians,
whose atm it should be to plant firmly in
this new soil the great doctrine of man’s
equality, are daily pestered with the insigni-
ficant doings of insignificant people.
“Is Marriage a Failure?”
This is about as idiotic a question as could pos-
sibly be asked. One might as well enquire if the
Cosmos were a failure. All the while there is a
young and rising generation it is very evident
marriage is a most unqualified success. The fact
is that people who ask the question do not know
what they mean by marriage. It is an eternal
fact. In every clime, amongst every people, race,
or nation, ancient or modern, savage or civilised,
there has been marriage. When it ceased, the
nation ceased. The permanence of the one proved
the existence of the other. When people ask “ Is
marriage a failure ?” they mean is marriage of the
nineteenth-century conventional British type a
failure ? This narrows the question considerably,
but, fortunately, the existence of the human race
would not be very seriously imperilled if it were.
All unions of individuals of the opposite sexes en-
tered upon with the intention of the perpetuation
of the species is marriage. To talk of it being a
failure when that end is subserved, is to talk non-
sense.
* . * *
From the racial point of view any and every
system, natural or so-called artificial, which con-
tributes to maintain the vigour and numbers of a
race is good and right, and, on the other hand,
any and every system which fails to achieve those
objects is a fraud and a failure. Marriage of the
conventional type is not a piece of legal machinery
for the perpetuation of racial or national vitality.
It is variously regarded as a method of making
money, repairing a decayed fortune, acquiring an
estate, securing a nurse for one’s declining years,
hiring a general servant, coercing someone of the
opposite sex to do “ chores ” for the consideration
of shelter, getting a chop properly grilled, or
obtaining somebody to wear one’s name and to
advertise one’s business in society. Women seek
in the modern marriage increased freedom, the
right to go about without first asking parental
permission, the privilege of attending balls and
theatres in the care of a cavalier servente, a car-
riage in which to pay calls, an establishment
superior to their mother’s, dresses their father’s
purse refused to furnish forth, show, ostentation,
money, parade, liberty, anything in fact except
children, which are little nuisances, and calculated
to impede one’s movements. It is recognised that
families are a mistake. Babies are in the road
and are much too expensive ; girls are difficult to
navigate through the quicksands of social life and
troublous to marry off one’s hands; boys too often
turn out failures, their education is costly and
frequently wasted in the manufacture of a cabman
or a lower-grade civil servant instead of a pro-
fessional success. In America children are at
a discount. In France the State offers great in-
ducements to the multiplication of the race with-
out success. Population in several European
countries is steadily decreasing. In such marriage
is a failure.
* •
When the deaths outnumber the births in
periods of normal mortality things are not right.
Every unproductive marriage is a union in which
so far as the nation is concerned marriage is a
failure. These unions may not be necessarily
loveless. They are simply unions between highly
civilised, highly refined, and eminently selfish
people. Savages and primitive races increase and
multiply at a tremendous rate. In the memor-
able words of Editor Stead, “In Russia the
cradle is never. empty.” Tne Russian is one of
three races destined to play a great part in the
world’s history when the Anglo-Saxon has com-
mitted racial suicide. The two others are the
African and the Chinese. With these marriage is
not a failure. Virility speaks volumes on this
point. A People in the heyday of youth do not
sink into the commonplace grooves. They do not
ask anything about marriage. Tne home-life has
not become so all-absorbing. They live and
struggle and fight, out in the open most of the
time. When they go to their homes they go to
beat their wives. We live in the home. All our
real life is home life. All our moral and mental
life is the moral and mental life of men who are
half women in their habits, men breathing always
a domestic atmosphere. Daily we become more
and more forced into our home-life for our genuine
existence. Specialism is destroying all the in-
terest of existence outside the home. Hence we
are daily asking too much. We grow dissatisfied
because we require from one woman, one little en-
vironment, one dull set of daily circumstances
and daily petty incidents, the great life that great
nations live.
* • *
Marriage plays too important a part in the life
of the modern civilised man. He is cramped and
coffined in on every hand. Society is inexorable.
Every little caste and class has its little laws and
regulations. He is forced to look to the borne, to
the conventional marriage, for all his character-
culture, his higher excitements as an intellectual
being, and he finds it bitterly inadequate. The
people who find marriage to be anything but a
failure are people of Bohemian tendencies. People
who do not ask, who do not want too much fromeach
other, who live freely, unconventionally, naturally.
The same causes which operate to drive a man into
his home, to narrow down his social life, operate
also to limit population. Hence, the maternal
instinct is starved, the woman becomes frivolous,
the slave of the society whose portals recede with
every advance she makes, and an over-sensitive
humanity asks, “ Is marriage a failure ?”
* • *
To the nation that asks it, assuredly yes ! Mar-
riage amongst commercial and industrial peoples
of the present day is an inverted cone. There are
too few people married, and those that are married
are married too much. In a genuinely ideal com-
munity every able-bodied man and woman would
be married, but marriage would not be the exacting
chain upon each sex that it now is. Wherever
children are a nuisance marriage, no matter how
sanctioned by social usage, no matter how blessed
by priestly benediction, is a terrible failure. To
the nation that meets the arguments of Henry
George with the claptrap of Malthus marriage
is a failure. Where marriages of love are spoken
of as an act, on one side or the other, of suicidal
folly, and marriages of interest, no matter how
unfitting, or revolting, are commended, the con-
vential marriage, according to the rites and usages
of modern society, is a failure.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Poor Pope.
It was cabled the other day that all the R.C.
bishops have been directed to agitate for the re-
cognition of the temporal power of the Pope, but
we doubt very much if the faithful here will
worry themselves over Leo’s trouble any more
than they would over the rates charged on the
canals in the planet Mars. The Holy Pontiff
would seem to be on the holy grab like all the rest
of the rulers of the Old World, but the stupid
blunder he made when he allowed himself to be
made the tool of the English Government and at-
tempted to crush the Home Rule movement—a
matter of which he seems to have been profoundly
ignorant—proved how incompetent he and his an-
tiquated ring of Cardinals were to deal with any
question relating to temporal rights or power. It
has long been the policy of the Roman Pontiff to
pose as a poor, persecuted prisoner in his own
land ; but a couple of quotations from the Italian
Statute Book place a very different aspect on the
matter. One clause of the Act relating to Vatican
affairs expressly says: “The person of the
Supreme Pontiff is inviolate. An attack upon his
person, or an incitement thereto, is punished in the
same manner as the corresponding crimes against
the person of the king.” Nothing could be more
decisive in the way of protecting the person of the
Pope than this, and some idea of the liberal
manner in which the State provides for his tem-
poral wants can be obtained from another portion
of the Act, which says : “An income of 3,225,000
francs (£129,000) is set apart for the Holy See.”
This grant is inscribed in the Great Book of the
Public Debt, as “a perpetual and inalienable in-
come, in the name of the Sovereign Pontiff.” In
addition to this, “ His Holiness is to be allowed
to continue to occupy the two great palaces of the
Vatican and the Lateran, with the adjoining
dwellings and estates, and also the Villa Castel-
Gandolfo, which, together with the museums,
libraries, and collections of art and archeology,
are inalienable and exempt from all taxes or
charges of any kind whatsoever.” There are quite
a number of temporal monarch s to be found to day
who would cheerfully submit to be “ prisoners in
their own lands ” on such terms as these, and if
the present Pontiff has a glimmer of worldly
wisdom he will cease irritating the Italian Govern-
ment by his peevish, ridiculous complainings, and
sit quietly down in his fine fat see and make the
most of what every sensible person must consider
to be a jolly good bargain for Peter the Fisher-
man’s present representative.
+
Society and Societies.
Very lately several of the Australian capitalistic
dailies published articles on the Brookong strike
in which it was stated that trades-unionism was
on its trial. Men banded together for the pur
poses of trade had no right to prevent isolated in-
dividuals from working, &c., &c., &c. Any in-
dividual whose right so labour or otherwise was
interfered with by any body or bodies was entitled
to call upon the armed laws of his country to pro-
tect him, and much more of a like nature. In
other words the interests of the unit were of "more
importance than the interests of the society which
objected to his exercising his powers to its injury
This position is logically untenable by the sup-
porters of things as they at present exist. To
maintain that every man of any given class has
perfect liberty to do that which jeopardises the
existence of his class is simply to advocate
anarchy. The laws framed by merchants punish
burglary very severely because the existence 1 of
the burglar is disadvantageous to the society com-


E erybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—"hat Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilc-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
posed of men who hoard valuables in safes and
strong-rooms, and trades-unions war with black-
legs because the black-leg makes the trades-union
impossible. One robs money from Capital, the
other bread, the reward of exertion, from Labour ;
and the blackleg is punished by those whom his
action injures just as the burglar is called to ac-
count by those from whom he filches wealth. The
only difference is that Capital has managed by
vested interests to pass its will into law, while
Labour, on account of the lack of that interest, has
been unable to do so. Otherwise the positions are
absolutely similar. As to whether a thing is law-
ful according to a set of printed forms is one thing,
as to whether it is right is another. If a man is
justified in pursuing and punishing anothfr who
robs him of his purse, how can it be wrong if he pur-
sues and punishes a man who robs him of a dinner?
Nay, more, the man who steals a purse is a lesser
criminal, because the existence of the purse argues
a superfluity of means over and above the mere
price of food. To look at the question in its
broad social aspect the blackleg is a worse mem-
ber of society than the burglar, and his punish-
ment cannot be questioned on the abstract grounds
of right by a society which shuts up hors.e-thieves
in a gaol.
♦
“ Broadening Down."
Sir Henry Parkes the other day drove another
ass into his coffin. We know this isn’t the correct
quotation, but it's what we mean, anyway. He
objected to the abolition of a rule of the New
South Wales Legislative Assembly providing for
the clearance of the Chamber on the motion of four
fat-heads from the Adullam caves of political
Alsatia. He feared that in some future period if
such an order was erased from the records of Tite-
Barnacleism in New South Wales, certain “ halieDs
and henemies of the country ” would secrete them-
selves in the gallery of the ’Ouse to spy out the
nakedness of Australia’s political intellect. Con-
sidering that the bulk of said strangers are re-
porters representing Foreign-trade newspapers,
this is, to say the least of it, rough on the friends
of Parkes and good government. As time goes
on it is possible that even more stringent methods
may be adopted to exclude the “halien” and
a Parliamentary resolution of the distant
glorious future of unlimited Freetrade in
shoddy may read : “ Resolved, —That this
’Ouse now goes into secret session and
that strangers be hexpelled from the gallery,
the keyhole plugged hup, and the ventilators
closed. Halso, that the Cnairman of Committees
ooks hup the chimbley and sees that no Pur-
Section ists or foreign spies from Victoria hare lis-
tening hon the roof.” The S. M. Herald, com-
menting in a leading article on this Orphic utter-
ance of the Poet Pakkek, lugs in the doddering
old gag perpetrated in a moment of insanity by
Barren Tennyson anent the customs of the
British Parliament, which have slowly “broadened
down from precedent to precedent.” This is
about the hollowest simile ever inflicted by a titled
twanger of the lyre on a long-suffering people.
“Broadened down” is good. There is hardly
anything British that hasn’t broadened down like
a heap of silt on the chest of progress. Chris-
tianity of the English brand has broadened down
until it crushes every true and genuinely human
emotion beneath the weight of a gilded creed.
The Law lias broadened down in the form
of a gallows until the diaphragm of civi-
lisation has grown on to its backbone. Pro-
putty has broadened down until Labour has well
nigh been suffocated. Capital has broadened
down into a white waistcoat and sinks into a heap
of varnished mud upon the bosom of the earth,
stifling and choking the hopes and aspirations of
the people beneath a top-dressing of dredge-refuse.
Parkes has broadened down from Chartism to
grovel, and the devil of selfishness and syndicated
greed has broadened down until its putrid essence
has sapped and poisoned everything worth a beg-
gar’s benison. Charity and honesty and all the
old-fashioned vigour of the past have broadened
down into indifference, falsehood, and rottenness,
and if the broadening process continues another
decade we shall sell out and go to Heaven Next!
♦
Tlie Victorian Foorce.
The Melbourne Young Men’s Christian Associa-
tion, a body of hungry -looking saints whose pallid
piety induces a fluffy growth of premature
whisker, have just filled a long-felt want with a
“ Victorian Police Mission,” having for its object
the regeneration of the Foorce through the saving
grace of buttered toast and tea. W e have it on
the authority of a Melbourne paper that “ a
great many constables objected to the term ‘ Vic-
torian Police Mission,’and cannot see why well-
meaniDg persons should trouble about
their (the constables') spiritual good.” This is
distinctly ungrateful on the part of mea so nearly
past praying for as these same minions of the
harassing Victorian law. At the present moment
they are probably the fittest subjects for hard
prayer on this side of the line. Never a week
passes but what “Another Poliie Scandal’ is
brought to light, officially “ investigated,
and hastily hushed-up within a five-mile
radius of the Centennial Exhibition. A few
days ago a working man, living in the Carlton
district, returned home unexpectedly to find his
wife enjoying the society of a member of the
force, who had left his jumper and handcuffs on a
table in the meantime. The husband went to the
police-station, taking those handcuffs with him as
evidence, and identified his rival, whereupon the
destroyer of his peace snatched the handcuffs and
bit him (the husband) over the face with them.
That case was investigated and dismissed because
it was found to be “evidently one of mistaken
identity.” But such scandals are part of the dull
routine of life in Melbourne, and the public are
used to them. They never result in anything
further than an enquiry, or the promise of an en-
quiry, which may never be held. And in this con-
nection it is significant _ that one J ames Kenny,
an ex-policeman who retired from the service in
disgust, has recently published a scathing indict-
ment of its internal economy. Kenny s pamphlet
says : “ Immorality, falsehood, and corruption in
the lower grades are some of the qualifications ap-
parently essential for promotion.” This is a
sweeping assertion, but the policeman supplies a
host of details which go far to prove ibs bruth.
He says -. “ I was obliged to arrest a plain clothes
officer in a lo#'brothel in the occupation of two
female thieves.. This official pet was a married man,
and acted at bully for these criminal people. He was
let off with-a £2 fine.” Again, Kenny declares :
“ I was obliged to take energetic action against
an officer of the divisional plain-clothes police
for screening, by false reports, a criminal band of
prostitutes, whocimmitted robbery with impunity
and outraged respectable ciiizens. In this they
were encouraged by members of the police-force,
who danced and publicly associated with these
characters.” Kenny gives the names of people
wanted as witnesses to prove his charges in this
case, and if he were lying he could be proceeded
against for slander. Evidently the Kenny pam-
phlet contains facts which deserve to be seriously
read and considered by the Melbourne people. It
throws a little light upon those “official enquiries ”
in which all charges against policemen are decently
buried. There is something very rotten in the
force, therefore do we accept this mission of the
Y.M.C.A. in a spirit of joy. The prayer of the
good young men may possibly avail much. Any-
how, prayer is cheap.
Tlie Bar Monopoly.
Mr. Walker, member for Northumberland in the
New South Wales Assembly, has taken in hand
the question of legal monopoly. Tn this action he
should have the support of every man in the
Assembly claiming to possess the slightest scintilla
of liberalism. We have before pointed out in The
Bulletin the minner in which the Bar here has
fenced itself in against the native aspirant to its
ranks. In the rules regulating (the word should
really be restricting) access to the Bar in New
South Wales a spirit of grosser conservatism is ap-
parent than in similar rules throughout the world.
Even in England, conservative as its professions
notoriously are, there are no such disabilities im-
posed on candidates as the bastard Toryism of this
colony has evolved. It is not at all surprising that
lawyers should seek to preserve the ab-urd privi-
leges they possess as much as is in their power.
The profession, as far back as ibs history goes, has
been renowned for this sort of thing. The marvel
is that the people have so long permitted such a
state of affairs to endure. The rule restricting
candidates from following any sort of honest
handiwork for 12 months previous to their admis-
sion to final examinations as barristers has done
more than anything else to call the attention of
the public to the unspeakable selfishness of those
who regulate the admission of barristers here, and
will probably result in the downfall of more evils
than itself now surrounding the profession. As a
democratic community we glory in our (theore-
tical) freedom from anything like class distinc-
tions. The fact that such a rule as we have
mentioned is in operation here will be suffi-
cient to show us that we have no particular
ground for glorification about our democracy.
Properly, if the necessary intellectual qualifica-
tions were present, the Bar, or any other profes-
sion in a democratic country, should welcome the
butcher from his chopper, the husbandman from
his plough, and the labourer from his hod. But,
as the fine conservative nostrils of the gentlemen
who have the monopoly of the profession quiver
at the very idea of such an association, they have
made rules effectually to prevent the voice once
raised to proclaim the price of beef from ever
discoursing in the sacred regions of the law
courbs on the subileties of Maine and Justinian,
of Blackhtone, Broome, and Stephen. This
conviction regarding the disgrace attaching
to certain honest occupations is an old
thing, and takes a lot of knocking out
of the human race. We find in Cicero
an enumeration of the occupations con-
sidered disgraceful by the ancient Romans,
and among them, curiously enough, is that of the
butcher. In passing, it may be observed that
this is rather a poor return for the Romans to
make to Dan O'Connor for all the admiration
he has poured out upon them. The Ciceros of
New South Wales have, however, gene a step
farther than their ancient prototypes, and ruled
that unless a man lives in a state of independence
for a year of his novitiate he must be content with
the position of the Peri outside the gates of the
legal inferno. Another rule is to the effect that
the candidate for the Bar must read law for at
least three years before he will be admitted to
examination. A smart man could compass the
text-books laid down for the student com-
fortably within 12 months, but this makes
no sort of difference to the Barrister’s Admission
Board—he must wait three years. Such a term is
a big slice out) of an ordinary life, and the Board
knows it. Within three years a great many things
may happen to turn the embryo lawyer from his
purpose. His means may become tangled up, his
health give out, or he may become disgusted with
the long period of waiting, and devote his atten-
tion to some other pursuit, and the end of the
Board will be attained —one more Australian
having been prevented from re aching the Bar of
his country. A curious circumstance about these
rules is that they were promulgated immediately
after Mr. Ringnose Wise attained a position on
the Board ex officio as an Attorney-General.
Young English barristers are encouraged to
come here, and are welcomed by the Court
with open arms. This makes the position
of natives of the colony more exasperating, but
things will continue in this state until Parliament
takes the matter up, and, sweeps away with one
stroke all the time-dishonoured cobwtb3 which
cling about the legal profession. We will have
more to say on the question later on, for when the
axe is once lifted for the work of destruction it
must not be laid aside till the whole monstrous
growth of legal monopoly is prostrate.
Official Pauperism.
Dear Bulletin, —Another N.S.W. Shite servant,
Mr. Railway Commissioner Goodchap, wibh whom
personally we have no fault to find, he being a
man whose ability, energy, independent spirit,
and unvarying kindliness, have earned for him
the goodwill of his fellow-citizens, has retired
from office in the prime of life on an annual pension
of £937. Now, as has been frequently pointed
out, this practice of pensioning off retiring State
workers ought either to be extended to all classes
of the community or wholly abolished. At pre-
sent the Civil servant who has been gifted with
great opportunities of providing for his old age
when work is impossible, need not be frugal ;
a premium is placed on extravagance by a
grateful country, while the unofficial worker is
doomed, if unfortunate or thriftless, to drag
out his declining years in the prison
wards of our asylums for the indigent.
Why such invidious distinctions ? Surely
the welfare of any member of the social
organism is as essential to its health and happi-
ness as is that of any member of the human
organism to the well-being of the whole. Why,
then, this coddling of the social ears and eyes,
while the feet that support all, the hands that toil
for all, the brains that guide all, are left utterly
neglected ? Every man who works does so from
more or less selfish considerations, his own wel-
fare being the primary motive, that of the com-
munity only a secondary one ; therefore, if certain
individuals have given their labour to the State in
return for certain large monthly payments
of filthy lucre, it is probably because no equally
remunerative or congenial opening presented itself
elsewhere, while many equally capab'e and sner-
getic men were ready to fill any vacancy
caused by their retirement. Then fore, it is
surely self evident that the policy which throws
open the doors of an already depleted Treasury
to a hale, well-to-do official in return for his
generosity in ceasing to work for the State is cor-
rupt, and unfair to the other members of the com-
munity, particularly to the many toilers whose
earnings are absolutely insufficient for their daily
necessities, and who, therefore, are precluded
from saving. If the State won’t pension off the
poorly-paid wage-earner, surely it ought to relieve
him of the deductions made from his pittance for
the support of fat officialdom. Yours, Citizen.
[There is another aspect of the question which
“ Citizen ” appears to have overlooked, viz , that
it is not incumbent upon the State to imitate the
worst characteristics of Commerce in its dealings
with Labour. The Government of a country
should be the ideal employer, not the cheapest or
meanest. Remember, we look forward to a day
when the State shall be the only employer. It is
fitting that we start well. By the employment of
the so-called “unemployed” on Governrmnt re-
lief works the Socialistic principle is being estab-
lished in various colonies that the State is bound
to provide work for its children. The system
of pensioning is in itself good. It recognises
another principle, namely, that a man who
has worked a certain number of years for
the community is entitled to be supported by the
community. What a man rece'ves under exist ng
conditions is simply the market-price of his
labour ; if he has really given to the community
the sum total of his energy and life force money
cannot reward him ; in such a case a pension is only
a partial and inadequate attempt to make an ap-
proximation at reward. We must not try
lo bring all things down to the dead level of the
worst. Remember, too, bad as the existing con-
dition of things is, that several firms even in
foreign-trade Sydney recoarnise the principle of
pensions, and a great newspaper proprietary re-
deems many of its monopolistic sins by its generous
treatment of worn out servants.—Ed. Bulletin.]
The Salvation Army at Wollongong.
Seven servants of the Lord, the seven champions
of Christendom, languish in a gloomy fastness for
conscience’ sake. The Mayor and Corporation of
Wollongong (New South Wales) has risen in its
soulless might and bodiless unkickabiliby to perse-
cute the saints of a latter day church —and we’re
sorry for the saints. No body of a religious de-
scription has done in these alleged Nineteenth-
Century days half as much good as has been done by
the Salvation Army. Down into the filth of the
gutter it dives to bring up jettisoned humanity.
This is meritorious—Day more, it is heroic—but why,
oh why, do the soldiers take a cornet with them ?
Successors to the Apostles they may be; the
modern “ Kapting ” may be a St. Paul ; but then
Paul never went around tooting on a trumpet or
baDging at a drum. Let the Harmy exorcise the
t imborine and abolish the cymbals; conjure the
Devil that lieth hid in a cornet to come forth, and
cast the Beelzebub of a bass drum into the sea,
and we will shake its hand and scalp the Mayor
and Corporation of WolloDgoDg. If, however,
the Harmy dings to its fiendish blast and madden-
ing brattle it must still linger in its cast-iron dun-
geon just beneath the castle meat, in the dank and
darksome crypts whose portals are inscribed with
the gruesome legend, “We are Sevingk.”
The New Sontli Wales Call le-Trnek Business.
A deputation waited on the New South Wales
Minister for Works the other day to complain
that the regulations of the Railway Department
were beiDg utilised by an extensive “ring” to
get control of the Sydney cattle-market. It seems
that when trucks are ordered to be sent to a
country station to meet cattle on a certain day a
deposit is paid, and if the trucks are not used the
deposit is forfeited and the person who orders
the trucks is liable for the full price; but if for
any cause the person ordering the trucks has to
ask for a postponement in using them, for instance
if his cattle are delayed, then the postponement
is granted, and nothing extra is paid. One large
firm of Sydney stock-salesmen are stated to have
worked these regulations very neatly, by ordering
all the trucks available, and then getting post-
ponements from week to week and only bringing
down their own cattle. This gives them the con-
trol of the market, and if they do allow anyone
else to use the trucks they make a profit out of
the business. The result is that no outsiders can
get any cattle to the market for the next month
or so. Minister Sutherland, on being inter-
viewed on the subject, appears to have missed the
point altogether, and to have gone drivelling on
about the fact that there are not so many trucks
as there ought to be. No one denies this but the
complaint was that the existing trucks were being
monopolised. It came out that the Railway
Department have made no new trucks for the last
three or four years, as they have been all that
time experimenting with various combination-
trucks This comes of having an antediluvian for
a Minister of Works. Let us hope Mr. Eddy
will put all these things straight.
Embezzling a Navy.
A few months ago a great political scheme fell
dead upon the shores of Australia. Lord Salis-
bury and his colleagues conceived a gigantic plan
for the construction of a navy, to be supported out
of the various Australian treasuries and com-
manded by British officers who would draw their
salaries from these “blawsted Kawlonies” and
take their orders from the British Admiralty**
and who would be armed with all necessary
authority to treat the Governments which main-
tained them with supreme derision. Competent
specialists of great experience and research con-
sidered that the “ bonds ” of Imperial union would
thus be drawn closer and rendered more durable,
and the grovellers of Australia felicitated them-
selves and the country upon the joyousness of the
coming era, when Australia would pay for an ex-
pensive navy which would be owned by another '
country, and would be sassed by her own officers,
and bounced on the high seas by her own fleet at
her own expense—but somehow the common
ordinary people of these colonies failed to appreci-
ate the full beauty of the prospect and in a certain
measure the scheme fell through. Democratic
Queensland especially viewed it with scorn, and
within the last few' days her experience of
one Imperial officer has fully demonstrated
the fact that the high-priced British mer-
cenary is too costly and troublesome a luxury
for a plain unassuming nation to undertake.
Captain Wright, a person from “home” who
was hired some years ago to command the Gayun-
dah —which gunbeat comprises in itself almost the
whole of the Queensland Navy—was the cause of
the disturbance. He is not an imposing officer,
being small and weedy of structure and common-
place in his general aspect, but on the ground that
he bears an Imperial commission and is English
you know, he considered himself called upon a d
fully qualified to bounce a colony 1200 miles lrng and
700,000 square miles in area, and his general at i
tude was that he didn’ 0 care for anybody or any t hin g.
Eor some time past there have occasional signs
of friction between this small but gallant officer and
the Queensland authorities, and finally it was ar-
ranged that he should receive 12 months’ leave of
absence; and in view of this the MTlwraith
Cabinet appointed Lieutenant Taylor to take
over the command in his stead. Taylor, how-
ever, on attempting to assume his new authority,
was put under arrest by the indignant and high
toned Weight, who claimed that being a British
officer he was not in any way responsible
to the Government which paid him and kept
him in oats, and that the “ kawlinie ” which
owned the Gayundah must lie low and let him
do as he pleased with that vessel, and that in
a general sort of way he was the monarch
of the sea. Possibly Pad this challenge been
levelled at Parkes or Gillies the “ loyalty ”
of these gentlemen would have led them to tem-
porise rather than lay a sacrilegious hand
on an officer who derived his dignity direct from
the Lord’s anointed, but the tremendous assur-
ance of the typical British officer only roused
Premier M'll wraith to prompt action, and Cap-
tain Wright was dismissed by official decree from
the Queensland naval service and ordered to leave
his ship and collapse. Then the captain prepared
to crush these insolent colonial persons at one fell
blow. He obtained a large quantity of coal and
provisions by various means which were irregular
if not illegal, and rushed them on board along
with other stores, and in a few hours more the
people of Brisbane would probably have seen the
navy they have maintained at so much ex pen e
steaming away for Sydney or London or some
o her port, from which she might or might not
have come back, and the high priced crew—also
hired at great cost to defend the < Queensland coasts
vanishing over the horizon, and leaving the
colony defenceless ; and, on top of this, the bill
for the stores requisite for the embezzlement of
their navy would have been left behind to be
liquidated out of the Consolidated Revenue. As
it was, however, the excited Queenslanders were
amazed by the spectacle of the police-
force charging on board the fleet as the only
means of bringing that white elephant to its
senses, and Captain Wright being suspended
by main force from his position the colony suc-
ceeded with difficulty in retaining its own pro-
perty. Had the Queensland Government pos-
sessed six warships instead of one, with six
haughty British captains to maintain the dignity
of the Imperial Crown, the chances are that the
police would have been thrown overboard and the
squadron would have eloped for parts unknown, and
as it is the prospect for those colonies which have
resolved to pay for an Imperial navy over which
they will have .no control, is not a brilliant one.
The traditions of the British admiralty evidently
demand that the officers who draw their salaries
from the Australian treasuries shall tell their em-
ployers to go to perdition and do exactly as they
please with the property of the colonies, and they
are only subject to control when the police are
strong enough to arrest the fleet and haul it
bodily ashore. The odds, as io chanced, were
against the arrogant “ hossifer ” from “Home”;
had they been in his favour he might even
have deposed the obnoxious Premier by a
coup de main and run the Government on Im-
perial principles until matters were settled to his
satisfaction. The actual matter in dispute was
whether a British captain a little over five feet
high was, or was not, superior to the whole poli-
tical system of the colony, and but for the un-
wonted vigour of the Government the question
would probably have been decided in his favour.
As it is, Captain Wright has only succeeded in
demonstrating the unspeakable folly of those
states which put their faith in hired defenders,
and has driven another nail into the coffin of the
system under which Australia is neither a nation
or a country, but only a disjointed spot on the
political horizon.
The other day the somewhat eccentric Judge
Docker, of Sydney, sentenced to imprisonment
for life a young man convicted of an assault upon
a policeman. The Bulletin, while admitting
that persons who wantonly aseault policemen
should be visited with exemplary punishment,
holds that such sentences as the one under notice
strike the public as partaking not of the character
of evenly retributive penalties, but rather of the
nature of Lynch-law. Attacking a policeman,
anyhow, means attacking a stalwart man, and if
the law sends to gaol for life ttie malefactor who
does so, with what penalties can it fairly visit the
brute who cold-bloodedly “ boots ’ a woman ?
However, we hope that Judge Docker will “keep
on doing it.” Every Australian Judge who im-
poses unreasonably severe sentences is a benefac-
tor to the nation, in that he brings the present
brutal laws into hatred and contempt.
A PRAISEWORTHY attempt to insert the thin edge
of the Land Nationalisation wedge into existing
land laws has just been made by the ratepayers of
Wagga Wagga who have requested their Muni-
cipal Council to petition Parliament for an altera-
tion in the basis of municipal taxation. The
present absurd system is founded on taxation upon
improvements, or in other words, no regard is
paid to the capital value of property, but simply
to its rental value. This is manifestly unjust, for
as £lOOO worth of land will not let for anything
like the same rent as a shop or dwelling-house
erected at the same cost, it follows that the man
who improves a district by erecting good substan-
tial buildings is taxed infinitely higher than the
man who pursues a dog-in-the-manger policy, and
will neither improve his land nor sell it to those
who would, but chooses rather to allow it to lie
fallow and have its value raised by the efforts of
his more enterprising neighbours. Now is the
time for all other municipalities to follow Wagga
Wagga’s sensible lead.
At one of the Sydney Police Courts last week an
Italian emigrant mamed Ettoiie Lauro got “three
months’ hard ” for being a suspected person fre-
quenting a public place presumably for the pur-
pose of committing a felony. Which means that
he was locked up for being an individual that
some ignorant official who didn’t know him had
his doubts about, complicated with being found
in a street which was open to everybody, and
further aggravated by it -being supposed by a
policeman who didn’t see him do anything that he
looked like a person who might have come there
for the purpose of doing something if he wasn’t
nipped in the bud right off. It is rather costly
work to be a person suspected of being somewhere
for the purpose of doing something, in Australia.
Any man who wants some healthy exercise can
whop his wife for 10s. fine with the alternative of
S6ven days, but to be a seedy man walking slowly
past valuable property is 13 times as expensive as
merely whaling a woman, and the price is still
rising—the law having evidently made up its
mind that this particular kind of sin must be put
down with a firm hand. God save the Queen !


For Dyspepsia
USB horsford’s acid phosphate
Dr. H. R. Myers, L.F.H.S , and L.M., 30 Euston-
spuare, London, Eng., says : “ I am now taking this very
pleasant preparation after meals, with marked benefit.
It is very useful in dyspepsia and nerve exhaustion.”
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerohiefs because
they oan get those useful artioles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Pbrfumbry Co.’s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition. All Melbourne
is on this Scent.
CORRESPONDENCE
“J. Blundell”: Good advice, a lot of it. But
there are two sides to every question, and you don’t
know the other, nor have we time just now to exhibit it
to you “W. Bailey” (Temora): Frost is still in gaol.
As another man has now been convicted of the offence
for which he, Frost, was sentenced some years ago, we
presume that Frost will now be discharged, and told not
to do it again. James Lawson”: Mr. Goodchap, we
hold, has displayed most excellent judgment in declining
to pose as a man with a grievance “Wambo”: Pre-
mier Parkes’ attack on the custom of adjourning Parlia-
ment when a member dies comes with very ill grace from
the architect of the Dead House “Borang”: You
must remember, however, that the public estimate of Mr.
Dibbs has been, to a great extent, manufactured
for him by the capitalistic Press “R. Beattie”:
Thanks. Will print as soon as possible
“ Phluphum ” : Many thanks. You may pronounce
“ Gayll ”as “ Gaol ”if you like “Save me from my
Friends ” : Good story, but by a very curious coincidence
something very like it was metrically told in these
colonies....“ John Smith” (Warri): If we follow your
suggestion how are we to print our picturesE.
Mason ”: The letter of Dr. Cortis, M.P., in the S.M.
Herald, alleging that Home Rule means an independent
Irish Republio and that the Land League is an institution
for the support of assassination may be interpreted as a
sfroDg appeal to the Bathurst electors to make the next
contest in the doctor’s present constituency turn on the
question Orange v. Green. Unless Dr. Cortis manages to
persuade Mickey O’Doolan, late of Cork, but now of
I’.athurst, to feel inclined to go for Mr. M'Pherson, from
the North of Ireland, wid a bhit of a shtiok, there
will be no more Cortis, M.P. The real faot of
the matter is that the Irish question is a
purely agrarian one, and quite apart from religion....
“ California ” : You are being humbugged. Go to neither
of them. Visit Sydney or Brisbane and see a medical
man attached to one of the hospitals “ Native Bear”
writes“ I have a copy of Tennyson’s Poems, with the
following written on the fly-leaf: “Mrs. W. J. P n
with the affectionate regard of D. H. Deniehy.’ Have
you any idea who Mrs. W. J. P n was 1 I bought
the book at a sale in Sydney years ag0.”....“ J.W.”:
(Caboolture): The Argentine Republic has declared for
Protection, anyhow. .."Bona Fide”: We don’t know
anything against them, yet we decline to take the re-
sponsibility of recommending anyone to trust them with
a sovereign “ Walter Marshall (Nebo): Do you say so
in face of the fact that although Victoria has had self-
government for 35 years, she is still paying pensions
alleged to have been earned under the old Imperial system i
.. -“ E.A.W.” : With a little alteration the verses mußt fit
another well-known person:—
It is the same old hard-up, swerving soul,
Still true to self though self itself has changed,
And ever adding to the lengthy roll
Of those by base ingratitude estranged,
Who still retain his “paper,” knowing he
Will ne’er disburse, because it is their aim
To hang it o’er his head, a constant threat,
Thus make him “ willy nilly ” play their game.
“.True Bill”: Will work it up into a paragraph one
of these days “C.M.” (Melbourne): Will consider
“ H.R.” : Thanks.... “W. M. O’D.” (Melb.): Very much
obliged “ Ignatius Squelcher: Excellent. Will print..
“Bryan F. D.”: You have many poetio ideas, but at
present you oan exprese them better in prose than in
verse “W. Lyell” (Mount Hope): Your request re
Lawrence Gronlund’s “Co-operative Commonwealth”
shall be complied with “J. P. Bourke ”: Received
“ R. R. Robinson ” (Cape Otway) : Thanks for clipping...
“CS.” (Brisbane): The ideas for cartoon are excellent.
Will endeavour to use.. “ Parkin Lee”: The Bulletin's space
is too precious to be used as a medium for publishing in ex-
tenao speeches of the Grand Old Nordenfeldt.. “ Seeker of
Justice ” (Geraldtown): Henrik Ibsen, in a recent work,
declares that thsre cannot be any justice until men and
women are superior to the law. It is the habit of
looking to eome extraneous source for that which
we should have in our own hearts and minds
which occasions all the ills, social and political,
to which mankind is heir to. We put our freedom
in pawn to create a tribunal which speedily grows
stronger than the power that called it into baing and the
community is held in thrall to its master-servant’s will.
There is no slavery ia the world like the slavery of an
alleged free and democratic nation to the tyrant of De-
partmentalism and red-tape bureaucracy...“ E.M.A.K.” :
The ideas are not at all bad, the drawing is very much
“off”; you want practice “ B.B.B.” (Brisbane):
“An address to the sheep which was fleeced by Baron
Carington ” is just such an address as one would
naturally throw on top of a baa-lamb’s intellect.
“ M.D.W.” (Melbourne): We can read your
signature, also the heading “Bells,” but the rest
of your “screed” is an incomprehensible glimmer
“Henry Porter” (Mildura): The “enclosed” doesn’t
seem to eventuats. Are you sure it was “ en-
closed ”J. Le G. 8.”: The collection of verses
are wild to the bounds of insanity and bespeak
a close intimacy with chaos “Geebung”: You
forget that increase in population is inflected by the
potentialities of the soil to maintain it. When a country
is full it flows over just like a pint-pot. China’s popula-
tion cannot increass at the same ratio as that of Austra-
lia, simply because there is no room for it to do so
“L.J.Y.”: Thanks for your portrait. You grin very
nicely. Why did you leave out the horse’s collar ? “A.
Bruce Smith ”: Next week.
Marshall’s Tonic Narvlne has won another
great race. Searle filled himself up with it before
he started, and the result was victory.
We have to acknowledge the receipt of
some excellent and most artistically arranged
Christmas cards from Messrs. Kerry and Jones,
photographers, of George-street, Sydney., They
present most charming little glimpses of “ Our
Beautiful Harbour ” nesting within gracefully
arranged groups of native ferns and flowers.
Pritchard Morgan, it is cabled, ia in Par-
liament as a Liberal Unionist in the room of the
late Henry Richard, of the Peace Society. Now
that our dear old friend has got the thin end of
the wedge into the glorious British Constitution,
and has made a fair start in a Conservative direc-
tion, The Bulletin predicts that he will be King
of England within 18 months.
The late W. B. Dailey.
William Bede Dallky, whose body was laid to
rest in Waverley Cemetery on Tuesday morning
last, was a man of many splendours, both of intel-
lect and heart. His virtues were of the sounding,
sunny order They made mirth and music, they
made thought and action. Something in them
suggested the bird on the wing. They were im-
ponderable, buoyant, rapid. Something in them
suggested also the sword in the hand. They
gleamed, sparkled, dazzled.
• •
*
Mr. Dailey is, in many respects, the most
notable man Sydney has given birth to. He is
the most notable whose life has been spent in
Australia. Men better on single lines are
numerous. His c qual in versatile grace has not
grown up under the Southern Cross. His life
was short; but his career of high conduct as a
citizen, of splendid achievement as an advocate, of
daring adventure as a statesman, and of instinctive
sympathies as a man of letters, was long. There
is sufficient material to allow of his being judged
upon each. That is saying much, in view of the
persistence with which for years Death knocked
daily at his door.
♦ • •
Mr. Dailey’s career began with accidental ad-
vantages. The time was ripe for new thoughts
and new men. When he was 23, the Australian
nation was born. His vocation was in her Parlia-
ment. From that day until the midnight
of Sunday last he was an influence in
her destiny. We wish we could say that
the influence was invariably happy. It is Aus-
tralia’s misfortune that it was not so. As a states-
man, ib is the glow and glamour of audacious
WILLIAM BEDE DALLEY.
PHOTO. BY HOLM &L CO.
adventure that in a special manner illumine his
name. His path to glory was a way of swords.
His Imperial title was a kiss of blood. But his
influence was honestly meant and honestly exer-
cised.
• ■
In the walks of the lawyer and man of letters
there is less to qualify when praise is given. His
p wer before a jury was great. The warmth of
his heart and the eloquence of his tongue made his
addresses signally persuasive. All his spoken
language was marked with the same charac-
teristic. His voice was melodious, clear, and
insinuating. His perception of an approach-
ing difficulty was acute and immediate. His
perception of a point which gave him vantage
ground was similarly active. He was alert and
ready for changing temper or failing attention.
He could display passion and masterfully simulate
it. He was also humorous. A little of that
quality, but not much, was mixed with the other
ingredients of his mind. It could make a man
who was free from care laugh. It was womanish,
girlish, kittenish, “ wholesome.” In letters he
spoke with his pen. Those who have not heard
Mr. Dailey will find i t hard to like his style in
literature. It is neither diffuse nor redundant, but
looks both. Within the apparently equivalent
phrases distinctive meanings and shades of mean-
ings are contained. In speech, tone and ges-
ture gave these a prominence which only
patient and careful thought can now discover.
His sense was delicate, his vocabulary large, h's
effort to convey his whole thought laboured, and
thus, despite a grace and elegance that charm,
there is an appearance of artful elaboration that
displeases. But there is palpable talent in his
lines. There is sympathy for unconventional per-
sons and love for unconventional things. There
is scorn for littleness and hate for badness and
homage for what is noble. In these senses, the
dead man’s work is fine. It is worthy not only to
live, but to make live. It is light, heat, air.
* * *
The authors of such work wear hearts. Mr
Dailey’s was in constant service. It went out to
those who fell by the roadside. It sorrowed with
those who sat apart. And now it will throb no
more.
William Bede Dalley.
DIED, OCTOBEE 28TH, 1888.
Not the vain coup of ’Eighty Five,
Remembered now with laugh of wonder,
Shall keep “ Plain Bill,” his name, alive
In hearts which grieved the tinselled blunder ;
As Nature’s noble friend sincere,
We hold the dead one’s memory dear.
Let dolts and dotards shout “ Soudan,”
And banquet-mongers tell that story—
We sing the merits of the man ,
All faults forgetting of the Tory.
And for his epitaph we write —
“A gallant, true, un knighted Knight.”
Obsequies.
FREDERICK.
The gun’s deep boom, the toil of muffled bell,
The wailing march, the soldier’s measured tread,
And the hushed crowd with bowed, uncovered
head,
Tell of a Kaiser gone with shades to dwell.
Proctor.
No tinsel pomp, no servile mourning host,
Tell of the noble worker passed from earth
away,
But in our inmost heart, with reverent love
alway,
We mourn our honest, gallant, human Teacher
lost.
The Newcastle Strike Fund.
The Bulletin acknowledges the receipt of the
following in aid of the above fund “ Unknown.”
£l.
The Managing Director, Bulletin.— Dear Sir,
—I have the pleasure to acknowledge a fourth re*
ceipt from you of &2 17s. (id. towards the aid of
miners on strike, being further sums received
through Bulletin. Thanking you and the donors
for the continued interest in the miners’ cause.
I am yours faithfully,
JAMES CURLEY.
Miners’ General Secretary.
Tattersall’s Hotel, Newcastle, Oct. 29th.
The Referee
Owing to the slovenly drafting of the
Melbourne Cup conditions it was not quite settled,
at time of writing, whether Chicago would carry
a 101 b. or 141 b. penalty for the big race. Condi-
tions say “ the winner of a handicap (after de-
claration of weights) value £lOOO or upwards,
141 b. extra.” The winner of the Caulfield Cup
scooped £lOOO, less his own £2O stake-money,
therefore it may be taken for granted that Chicago
will escape the extra 41b. penalty which the
V.R.C. committee evidently intended for the
Caulfield hero when they issued their handicap.
Long ago The Bulletin pointed out a grossly
stupid feature of the Melbourne Cup conditions.
They say “ the handicap weight of the winner of
the A.J.C. or V.R.C. Derby to b 9 not less than
7st. 51b.” So, if a colt and filly, carrying Bst.
101 b. and Bst. 51b. respectively, ran a dead heat
for either Derby and divided the stake, they
might be doomed to meet on level terms in the
Melbourne Cup. The filly would thin be robbed
of the 51b. advantage she was justly entitled to on
their previous form. If the V.R.C. people do not
see to this before next year, The Bulletin will
make remarks upon the matter in a loud tone of
voice.
* * *
A well-known Sydney hotel-keeper had
150 chances in the £50,000 sweep and failed to
draw a horse; while his “boots,” who only pur-
chased one ticket, drew Victory. Such is life !
Some men couldn’t find gold, even in a bank.
# »
Since he rode Bravo in the Caulfield Cup,
they generally speak of him as Gory. He will not
ride any more for three calendar months.
* * *
They all do it. Even Mr. Walter Paton,
who is travelling through the colonies on behalf of
the Emigrants’ Information Office, London, will
be collecting “information” in Melbourne during
Cup week.
* • *
They say that when the owner of Bravo
told Gorry he could have “ £6OO to nothing ” on
his mount for the Caulfield Cup that fortunate
youth calmly sneered. And when, after the race,
another man found himself on “nothing to £600,”
he also sneered.
• • •
The Would (London) apologises to the
“ Jubilee Juggins ” for having stated that he was
“ stone-broke.”
* * •
The disfranchised English jockey, Wood, Ib
now Baron Rothschild’s assistant-trainer.
*
The lOst. champion pugllisb of England
has arrived in Australia. He is, like Wolf Ben-
doff, a Jew, and his name is Ben Seth. Very few
Jews now-a-days lift up their heads to be punched,
but even before the days of Daniel Mendoza
there were Hebrew champion-fighters, and when
the. Israelite does devote his attention to slogging
he is no slouch at the game. But his countrymen
generally find that pawnbroking and betting on
Gentile fighters pays better, besides offering more
scope to the development of a white waistcoat.
* • .
Hanlan and Beach—the inevitable Hanlan
and the inevitable Beach—are to row again, for
£5OO aside,. on Ist Dec., over the Parramatta
championship course. Judging from past races
between this venerable pair, the forthcoming con-
test will be a tussle between the dead man and
the undertaker, just as was, in a political sense]
the struggle between Angus Cameron and Ninian
Melville, the other day, for the Chairmanship of
Committees. Anyhow, we are sick of Hanlan.
We are also sick of Beach. They will be rowing
when they are bald-headed. They will be rowing
one day across the Styx for £5OO a-side. We wish
they would start now, and take with them a long
cortege of sporting publicans with big gold-cable
chains and white waistcoats.
• * •
The “demon bowler, Spofforth,” says a
Sydney paper, “ has gone into business with his
father m-law as a tea-dealer.” Wealways thought
when gazing on Spoff.’s melancholy face, that he
would meet with some such doom. However our
anticipations did not exactly take the form of tea.
Spoff.’s gruesome visage was in our mind indis-
solubly associated with very weak lemon-squash
• # •
On Burke the draw-fighter’s opening night
at Wagga, his manager came forward to introduce
him to the assembled wealth and intellect.
Through some misunderstanding both began to
speak at once, and in the lull caused by the
blunder some rude person in the back seats bawled
out, “ Which on yous is Burke ? You’re both uglv
enough.” The Irish-American was seemingly
somewhat offended by the comparison, and quick lv
invited the questioner to come on the stage and
find out.
• • •
A racing coincidence cropped up in con-
nection with the meetings at Elsternwick and
Caulfield on 17th and 20th October. On each dav
the two la ip races were won by Coolart and Both-
well in similar sequence.
• * •
The late John Fairfax, at the request of
bir Hercules Robinson, discontinued the practice
of publishing in his papers the state of the betting-
market. Quite recently the present proprietors
had a notice posted outside their office that the re
result of the drawing of “ Tattersall’s ” £5O 000
sweep would be published in the second edition of
the Echo. Ye gods !
• • *
The Flemington touts are tolerably unani-
w°£V n vP r u errin S ¥ elos t 0 Carbine for the
V.K.O. Derby, and there is no doubt that Mr
Gannon s colt would be a very strong tip among
the Melbourne folks if the late Caulfield meetinl
hadn t appeared to discount the Randwick form
all round. Ensign, Carlyon, Australian Peer,
Touchstone, and other Randwick performers cut
up so moderately as to shake faith in tho present


* Everybody should use PemelPs latest best Snow-white
Patent Rotter Flour. It is the trreatest suooess of the
age
OOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
The Leading Pleasure Resort of Australia.
Gigantic Success of tlie Tobogganing Kink !
The New Sensation.
Entirely superseding all Inventions of the kind.
The MAGNIFM ENT SWIMMING BATHS
Open Daily for Ladies and Gentlemen.
The Best and Laraest Collection of SEALS and FISH
' in.SYDNEY.
Sunday Next—The Fonular Afternoon Concert,
Popular Artistes. Popular Music.
A Great Programme, including favourite numbers from
' "" the following Operas—
Dorothy, Falka,
Lbs Cloches de Corneville, Miss Esmeralda.
The Quintette String Band will perform on the Lawn
during the afternoon.
Prices as Usual. IST Frequent Trams,
A K. STOPFORD, Manager
excellence of N.S.W. cracks. Aldivalloch, the
South Australian horse, is well liked, but Lons-
dale—if properly resurrected in the betting —will
probably be faked up with a few yards of the blue
riband on Saturday next.
•
This is the Beason of the year when the
secretary of the Victoria Racing Club is dosed
with treacle, and every newspaper in Australia
hurls adjectives at the latest Flemingbon improve-
ments. The coming meeting will introduce new
glories according to custom. The hill has been
added unto, likewise the grand stand which
thereon is, and all who wish to get into hot water
will be able to do so free of charge. Down in the
mo re select portion of the show a new five-acre
paddock will be flung open to the public at an
extra charge of 55., and many other luxuries will
be covered by the stand fee. It is also rumoured
that Mr. Byron Moore (who is generally acknow-
ledged to be the “ handsomest man in Melbourne”
at this juncture) will refund backers’ losses on re-
ceipt of a printed application on the Tuesday fol-
lowing settling-day. But there is no truth in this
rumour.
* * *
This year’s Melbourne Cup should be well
within grip after Saturday’s Stakes has been run
off, provided that half the horses entered for the
weight-for-age race go to the post. Excepting
Chicago, Arsenal, and Whakawai, all the Cup
favourites are down for the Stakes. Mentor is
almost certain to be brought out to prove whether
his Caulfield surprise was a fluke, and if Tradition
also has a go, then the Cup chance of that remark-
able animal can be easily arrived at. In the
meantime, no horses look better—on paper, or at
exercise—than Mentor and Tradition, but it could
be easily shown that at least eight others are
“morals,” if they can do something which they
used to do at more or less distant dates. The
actual winner of the Melbourne Cup always wants
a lot of finding before the race, although it can be
guessed “in once ” a few seconds afterwards. The
safest prophecies are —firstly, that the field will
be smaller than usual; secondly, that a four-year-
old will take the cake. Anyone taking a fancy
bet of 2 to 1 about the latter chance would have
the best of the deal.
• • tt
Last Saturday's meeting at Moonee Valley
threw no light on the fateful future, otherwise
than in further endorsing a generally high opinion
of Montalto This filly is so fast and fit that a
14lb. penalty may not stop her in the Maribyrnong
Plate, although the men who whisper together and
imagine vain things at street corners, declare that
Rokeby (who ran badly at Caulfield) is the best
youngster in this great country.
As down the straight the horses came
Poor Backer yelled his gee gee’s name,
But when the post they galloped past
The name the Backer yelled was—“ Blast! ”
Afier Searle had defeated Sbambury,
Neilsen, and Hughes, and had cowed Hanlan and
his party were offering odds that he would beat
Kemp, all the papers made the winderful dis-
covery that he was a first-class man. But in this
paper it was written after he won his first race
here “If you want a good tip about a promising
sculler pin your faith to Searle. He will beat
Stansbury whenever he meets him he will beat
Neilsen, he will beat Hughes, and when he meets
Peter Kemp, unless his supporters overtrain him
in the meantime, the writer will have his money
on the Clarence River sculler.” At the time the
above was written he was not reckoned good
enough to match against Hanlan, let alone Kemp;
and now he is champion of the world. Not such
a bad tip, was it ? There is no mistake about his
being a genuine champion, too ; Kemp was only a
makeshift, and has not the physique neces-
sary for a champion sculler; he is beauti-
fully built, no doubt, but he is not of the
sturdy, enduring type, like Beach and Searle.
The next thing we will see will be Beach
matched against Searle, and who will win that ?
Beach, of course, is not altogether the Beach of
old, but his retirement will probablv do him more
good than harm, and if he is judiciously trained
he ought to come to the post better than he was
when he last rowed; but Beach never had the
brilliancy that Searle has, and has most likely lost
some of bis endurance, so that if they met now
Searle would probably lead for two miles and
Beach would then come at him, only to find that
Searle would go right clean away from him like a
ehob out of a gun. That is the writer’s idea of
how it would be. However, perhaps Teemer can
take them all down. Wait till we see what man-
ner of man he is, and we will soon know. There
is a man on the river occasionally who, if he got
into good hands, would about beat the lot of them
—a man of wonderful physique, who only wants
proper fitting and coaching to achieve success—
Libeau, the walker and cyclist. If any of the big
rowing supporttis get hold of him he will be
worth backing.
As in the case of Beach, Kemp’s party
threw away a golden opportunity in not faking
the ex champion away to the States and Europe
on an exhibition tour, whilst in the hey-day of his
glory. Now it is too late, Kemp will find that
dollars are more substantial than athletic glory,
for he is by this time a mere tradition, and the
notoriety-hunters who were so anxious to back
him for £5OOO, and then back down when the
other tide offered to take them up, have, no
doubt, by now transferred their allegiance to the
reigning champion, If Bearle has any tioils be will
make all he can out of the championship before
risking the k»3S of it.
*
The race between Ktmp and Matterson
was an inconsequential affair. Kemp was no
longer champion, and Matterson, who was clearly
out of condition, was easily beaten. The Kemp
party laid £lOOO to £3OO.
If is said that Searle’s party have won
something like £BOOO over their man’s last three
races.
Only a few more £lO allotments Everleigh
Estate, Perth, West Australia. Send for Plans
and Pamphlets The Intercolonial Investment
Co , 06 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
That very interesting seaside institution,
Manly Aquarium, is to pass into the hands of a
company with a capital of £15,000 in £1 shares
•and power to increase to £25,000. Over 5000 of
the 8000 shares offered to the public are .already
taken up, and as the call will be only Is, per share
per month the investment will be an easy one.
The present proprietor leaves cash in the hands of
the directors to guarantee 10 per cent, for three
years and the books, which have been certified to
by competent accountants, show a weekly average
of about £BO receipts and £2B expenses—leaving
at least £5O weekly to pay in dividends and im-
prove the place.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.—“ The Miner’s Daughter” p. 14.
Her Majesty’s.— “ Lights o’ London ”
Alhambra. —Minstrelsy „
Criterion. —“ In Chancery ”
Haymarket Music Hall. —Faust Family... ~
Daring the scene with Lady Anne at the
bier-side of Heury YI. in the terrible tragedy of
“ Richard III.,” Mr. Geo C. Miln had on last
Thursday night at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, an
opportunity of displaying a quick-wittedness
which is somewhat rare in acbors accustomed to
repeat only that which is “writ” for them.
Gloster, after vainly inviting the distressed widow
of Edward of Lancaster to plunge his sword into
his lying heart, tells of his love, and the bewildered
lady drops the blade. On Thursday night the
hilt, becoming unfastened, dropped off. Miss
Louise .lordan, who played Lady Anne, became
greatly confused, but Richard immediately struck
in with the line :
Thy beauty hath destroyed the sword.
And in a subsequent passage made the text read :
Say but the word ;
Marred though the weapon be I’ll slay myself.
Of course the critics who object to interpolations
had a fine opportunity here of earning the wagers
for alterations of the text offered by Mr. Miln in
the Sydney papers.
* • • •
The tank has again broken loose to per-
vade the surface of the earth. The canal has
burst from its fetters, and the water-jump is once
more “on the job ” On Saturday night the “Lights
o’ London ” were revived for one week only at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and the enthusiasm of a
medium-sized audience swelled into mitigated
mania as George Rignold leaped into the pale
green depths of the peaceful fluid and fished Mr.
Stirling Whyte out from a watery grave. Mr.
R. E. SEARLE: The Champion Sculler.
Why te, by the way, looks better in water than he does
in armour. The company was as usual well up tojits
work, and the drama climbed down without a
hitch into the abysses of villainy, and shinned up
the stony paths of virtue, aud plodded with stern
resolution across the trackless plains of adversity
where the pig’s-trotter man ekes out a slender
livelihood and the old clo’ vender wanders with
his barrow ; and finally towards H o’clock it
struck an attitude and lived happily ever after-
wards. The tank, as usual, was calm and collected
and almost stern in its attitude, and as the sun set
and the moon rose over its impassioned bucketful
a feeling of awe crept over the audience, and they
thought of those who go down to the sea in
ships and of the adventurers who hunt for rats
in drains, and of the various toilers upon the sur-
face of the great deep who acquire ihepmatiz
amid the waste .of waters. Then they wandered
into other paths of meditation and contemplated
the winkle and the whale and the other living
organisms of the foaming waters, and finally
woke up with a start to find Mr- Rignold
leaving a wet imprint on the curtain with
the back part of him as he bowed his
acknowledgments. Since Saturday, howeyer,
the business has dropped off a good deal and the
tank seems to fall comparatively flat. The other
leading parts of the drama are ably sustained asmual
by Misses Watts-Phillips, Emily Fitzroy, Maggie
Langeville, Beitie Colville, Mrs. George Rignold,
Charles Hall, Whyte, Greville, Jewett, the hot-
spud barrow, and the scenery, and for the pre-
sent Mr. Jewett appears to run a dead-heat with
the tank for public appreciation. In our opinion
he will shortly get ahead. The “ Lights o’ Lon-
don ” is essentially a tragedy of a stout vagrant
who gets no thinner on no food, and a slender
female who lives on visions of green country
lanes, and these features are shaded off by a bene-
volent policeman with a tendency to wesket, and
a slouchy person with a lost daughter and an ac-
cent which he can’t lose. These circumstances
alone are sufficient to account for its popularity.
## # *
Forty Maori warriors—male and female-
are in full blast at Bondi Aquarium, where their
weird war dances and strange military evolutions
create considerable dust. The New Zealand
native seldom quits his home, and the present
crowd are understood to have left in the teeth of a
strong protest from Te Whiti, the local coffee-
coloured prophet, who considered that the nation
was fast going to the dogs. Unless this eminent
visionary lets up a little on his curse it is not
likely that any more of the New Zealand natives
will venture over to Australia, and so the public
would be well advised to take the opportunity
which now presents itself of studying the outer
aspects of one of the noblest races that was ever
wasted on a thankless earth.
#* # #
Mab, the tattered, shock-headed American
maid from the gullies and ditches of Smith s
Pocket, California, is undoubtedly the best charac-
ter in Carrie Swain’s category, and the “Miners
Daughter ” —the best piece by miles in her limited
repertoire—is always dead sure of a good recep-
tion in Sydney. We love this piece for 22 dif-
ferent reasons, and the eighteenth one is that it
was written to prop up one of the very few
romantic illusions left on earth, and does it so well
that the deception promises to haDg out a little
longer before the final burst-up. The noble-
hearted digger of the Sierras, as far as any posi-
tive evidence goes, never dug in the Sierras at all.
The large-booted adventurer with the lofty soul,
who affably sliced-up a whole family with
a dinner-knife, for no other reason than
that he hadn’t met them before, and then
sat down and softly rocked the baby the only
survivor—and sang gentle lullabies to that
infant while bits of its mother were still flying in
the air, and tenderly hushed it to sleep, and in-
spected its feet, fearing that they might have got
cold while the butchery was in progress—we
have lost ifaith in this bloodstained tread<=r
upon the dead, and we want some reliable
guarantee before we credit him any more
We experience doubts, too, concerning the large,
sprawling Western loafer who was always ready at
Christmas time to ride 100 miles to buy a sixpenny
wooden monkey with a view to raising a smile on
the countenance of a small consumptive boy, and
who fought a skirmish on the way with eight
infesting ruffians who had sworn to capture
the timber ape and make a conflagration
of it, and who finally beat them off and
did the last 40 miles of the journey in
eight minutes, despite the fact that he was dead,
and that the horse had all its ,legs broken and its
head and tail shot away ; and in various other
ways we are losing our held upon the delusions of
the wild and rampant West. But we are prepared
to forget our scepticism when Carrie Swaia plays
the part of the briezy Mab of Smith's Pocket,
and we cheerfully accept the tangled little fairy of
the woods with her picturesque rags and her
songs and her mountain profanity and the rest
of her properties without any elaborate ques-
tion. George Leopold, in the character of Yuba
Bill, is another ' doubtful circumstance which
looks real find G. P. Carey, as Judge Beeg-
winger—a walking commentary on the statutes of
his native land—is an itinerant comedy which
would have been shot for being Yo remarkable if
it had ever attempted to live. The other mem-
bers of the company are sufficiently good to pre-
vent the public heaving anything at them, and
they are not needlessly hampered by probabilities
or worried by the necessity of making things hang
too closely together. The “ Miner’s Daughter ’
rises superior to the harassing nature of ordinary
Sunday respectability, and in this fact lies its
strength. In its present state it is a power in the
world of human mirth, but any attempt to place
it on a solid tail-coat basis would be its utter ruin.
•* * *
Unlike a number of the other Sydney
shows the Alhambra withers not under the burn-
ing breath of summer. Frank Smith’s talented
nigger may perspire but he never dies, and be-
neath the pressure of adverse circumstances he
merely becomes more wildly frolicsome and more
loose-jointed in his dancing than ever before.
Life seems to be a scene of perennial mirth for
the “ cullud brother” who bolds forth in the
vicinity of Abigail’s grindery-emporium, and it is
on the days when the thermometer grows faint
and weary that he is at his best. Times writes no
wrinkle on his but we positively won’t dish up
that figure of speech any more.
#* » *
Next Friday, a new and staggering c omedy
in three acts called “ The Butler ” will rejoice at
Sydney Criterion, and sundry additions have been
made to an already powerful company in order to
make it gee. Miss Annie Taylor and Messrs.
A. T. Hilton, Robert Inman, and Corlesse supply
the new element, and these, along wibh the great
array of Brough and Boucieault’s talent, should
ensure the flunkey a long and prosperous career.
** # *
At Melbourne Opera House the Anglo-
Australian half of Mr. Simoneen’s company has
made a streaky first appearance in “The Rose of
Castile.” The leading male parts fell into the
hands of three strange gentlemen, who seemed to
be so overpowered by their good luck that they
lost breath at critical moments, and their ex-
hausted voices had to be held up by the united
efforts of a perspiring orchestra. The best of this
trio was an amateur tenor, but he was much worse
than he will be when his natural emotion has
cooled off. Miss Lilian Tree, who sings like the
angels and looks according, caught on all the time,
and little Miss Flora Graupner also assisted to
blot out unhappy memories of the other sex.
During last week, the Italians got through
sundry repetitions of “Frnani” in really power-
ful style. They improved on further acquaint-
ance, and if the yet undiscovered performers can
reach a similar height it is certain that Mr. Simon-
son has done his level best in the most important
particular. These dark cracks, Louise Lablache
and Luigi Lencioni, face the music to-night
(Thursday) in “ Carmen.”
## # #
“ Olivette ” is not in violent demand at
the Princess’s, but it remains on hand because the
triumvirate have solemnly sworn to carry out a
pre-arranged programme, which is advertised on
the lines of the P. and O. Steam Navigation Co.’s
time-table. Therefore, Nellie Stewart (whose
loved form is getting alarmingly thin), and the
resb of them have been fairly chucking themselves
away on a played-out article. “ Olivette ” was
written only a few years ago, bub the world has
grown funnier since then, and that ditty about the
torpedo and the whale sends a city intD convul-
sions no more. On Saturday the “Mikado 11 be-
gins a weep of barbaric splendour. At the
Alexandra, hard by, Mr. Alfred Dampier con-
tinues to open out a fresh parcel of British drama
every week at prices within the reach of all. The
current agony is “ A Royal Pardon,” and good
business prevails.
** * *
“Sophia ” urges on its mild career at the
Bijou, where there is as much beauty and talent
as a mortal can expect to strike at one blow this
side of Jordan. Nevertheless a suspicion that
Tom Jones was a miserable worm still haunts our
guilty mind, and the spectacle of fair Miss Lilian
Gillmore shaking her golden curls at this human
caterpillar is extremely trying. “ Hands Across
the Sea” is an everlasting boom at the Royal, the
rival halls enjoy robust health, and Wirth’sCircus
appeals so strongly to the Melbourne understand -
ing at this horsey period that the show can’t hold
enough at one time.
## # #
The Jungfrau Kapelle have knocked vener-
able and reverend Dr. Bromby wibh such violence
that he only recovered after writing a letter of
thanks to their managers, in which he betrayei
his Bulletin turn of mind by mentioning “ weird
instruments.” Under these circumstances, it is
unnecessary for a carnal weekly paper to further
enthuse over a concert wh : ch affects saint and
sinner severally, jointly, and both together at
once. But in conclusion, dear brethren, the
Kapelle pilgrims assemble and meet together at
the Athenaeum, and O! it is good to be there—
hallelujah !
** # *
On Derby night the pyrotechnical Pain
begins to blaze away once more at the Friendly
Societies’ Gardenp, Melbourne. A new set-piece
of prodigious awfulness, re] (resenting the Siege of
Sebastopol according to Pain, is now a-building
with a view to being exploded and fixed up again
right through the season. It is to be feared that
the collapse of the Russian fortress will provide
anobher opportunity for playing “ God Save the
Queen.” ___________
“Kemp acknowledged that he hid been
fairly defeated by a better man.” Are you listen-
ing to that, Ned Hanlan ? No yarns about the
river being wrong, or his boat not being right,
and nothing about “ a sudden feeling coming over
him.” Just fairly defeated. We might parody
an old epigram by saying that nothing better
became Kemp’s bi ief championship than his losing
of it.
William Henry Irwin was charged with
felony, at Sale (Vic.) Assizes, but' as nothirg
could be proved against prisoner except rum,
Judge Williams gave him half-a-sovereign and
a free pardon. Th»re were then two courses
open to William Henry—either to start a new life
on the “ half quid,” or to resume his career w;here
ib had left off. He chose the latter. He invested
the judge’s bounty in twenty distinct drinks and
was ultimately brought back to gaol, singing “ For
he’s a jollgoofellar. ”


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Is more W/iolesome than
BRANDY or, WHISKY,
And is a
Pure Refreshing Beverage.
Be C..reful you obtain Wolfe’s.
Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
Even for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
ress Suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS. 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE,
PEPPER
Salt
Executive Commissioner R. Burdett Smith,
of N.S.W., is evidently a brainy man of great
arithmetical ability and vast resource in times of
emergency. According to the Evening News, he
went over the accounts of the N.S.W. court at
Melbourne Exhibition, and discovered in them a
vast number of errors in the additions, the totals
showing overcharges varying in amount from £lO
to £2OO, and aggregating several thousands And
the News devotes a long paragraph to pointing
out that Mr. Smith actually found out these errors.
He struggled with the first rule of arithmetic
and crushed it flat. He rushed at the vast
problem of whether two and two made sixteen
or not, and he knocked the problem into ruins.
He plunged into the mystery of how five pounds of
butter at Is, Id, per pound made £2IG ss, 5d,, and
when he got to the surface again he had the
mystery by the wool. And then what did he do ?
Ordinary men would have taken to drink. Feeble
souls would have collapsed beneath the strain and
been found gibbering on all fours under the table,
Wicked persons would have gone out and whopped
their grandmothers, but R. Burdett Smith did
none of these things. With presence of mind
which was absolutely wonderful in one so young
he rose to his feet and said that he wouldn’t pay
the bills until they were put right. Napoleon him-
self couldn’t have said more, and he would probably
not have said so much. And even if he had said it
he would have said it in French and then the people
who sent in the accounts wouldn’t have understood
what he meant and might have imagined that he
was trying to sell a dog. But Smith spoke in
Australian without trimmings, and stated with
his hair hanging down to his ears that he’d be
blowed if he would pay them there bills, and the
stars heard him and approved of the remark.
Why, oh why, are Smiths like this so few ? Why
is it that the family is whittled down to such
small proportions ? Why, in short, are things in
general ? We don’t know, and if we did it
wouldn’t matter, and it doesn’t signify, anyhow. *|
* # # ~
The Supreme Court of the territory of
Utah has decided that the Mormon Church shall
be dissolved and its property escheated to the
State.— Cable.
“Wherever you meet Scotchmen,” said
the Rev. J. Berry in a sermon delivered at the
Wesleyan Church, Wellington (N.Z.), recently.
“ they are always at the top of the tree, and if
you want an argument in favour of the nutritious
properties of oatmeal, when made into porridge
o: brose, you can point to the fact that the middle
classes of Scotland have been reared upon it, and
they are the finest race on the earth to-day.” And
there is a still greater thing, and that is that in
every Scottish home the Bible is read, and this,
combined with the oatmeal, has made the Scotch-
men the fine race they are :
» * *
One of the capitalistic organs of Sydney
extracted from the sociological writings of Herbert
Spencer, the other day, a passage showing that
workmen who strike do so mainly under selfish
mpulse and to produce selfish results The ex-
tact was a long one, and the arguments in favour
of these conclusions were given in an unabridged
form. Those who have studied Herbert Spencer
can easily recall his train of reasoning on this sub-
set, and know that the passage referred to is only
one-half of an indictment intended equally for em-
ployers and employed. If the half - against em-
ployes was given, the other half should also have
been given. This, in a dim way, the capitalistic
organ seemed to admit, but plaintively ruu wked
that it could not afford the space. The following
is a metrical statement of this interesting position:
A pretty American girl, who recently in-
terviewed the Pope, says : “ As I knelt before
him, he smoothed my hair and face, held my
hands, and talked to me in a low, sweet voice. He
is a dear old man, but very feeble.” This is a touch-
ing picbure which makes one feel quite serious.
We all grow old and feeble unless we die in the
meantime—but we are not, all of us, Popes—
Van-demon’a land : Sydney, with its
wool-bale-carts five tiers high.
When Mr. Stephen Freeman, who has
just been appointed N.S.W. Under Secretary for
Lands, was chairman of the Dubbo Land Board,
an Irish applicant got into the witness-box at
Coonamble, and on being sworn held the Bible in
his left hand. Mr. Freeman, who had an official
suspicion of all witnesses, sternly ordered him to
take the book in his right hand. “I can’t,”
roared the witness. “Why?” said the chairman,
believing he smelt a rat. ■“ Bee ruse I haven’t
got one,” said the witness, holding up a coat-
sleeve empty from the elbow. The chairman
handsomely apologised for his unworthy suspicion,
and the poor old fellow got his selection con-
firmed.
Mtl bourne H ekald was somewhat de
pressed during the late cable interruption, but when
news from Europe began to come through once again
the heart of the Herald was glad, and it sang for
joy : “ The intelligence to hand by the restored
cable is indeed of an interesting character. There
have been two melancholy accidents in America—
one in Pennsylvania, where GO persons by an ex-
cursion train in connection with a church picnic
were killed;;and another in Illinois, where a
grand-stand broke down and about 150 people
were seriously injured.” The man who wrote
that must be an interesting character, indeed.
The recent murders in London recall the
doings of the late firm of Burke and Hare, whole-
sale and retail lifo-shorteners, whose business ad-
dress was Potterrow, Edinburgh. (Orders for
corpses executed daily on the premises with
economy and despatch). The junior member of
the firm, Mr. Hare, saved his neck by “ peach-
ing ” on his partner, and the latter was duly
hanged and his body publicly exposed for three
days to the vulgar gaze of the surviving inhabi-
tants. Mr. Hare, on being released from custody,
found himself like a hare in more than name. The
whole population south of Edinburgh “turned dog”
on him and chased him over the border into the
land of the Sassenach with curses, old boots, road-
metal, broad Scotch, and other indignities. In
England,he managed for some time to cancel bii
identity, but was at last recognised and cast into
a lime;pit somewhere near. London, and only
escaped by the skin of his teeth with the total
loss of his eyesight. Thirty years ago he was
still alive—an inmate of a blind asylum in London.
Burke’s wife is said to have been burnt to death
in a bush shanty in Gippsland 10 or 12 years ago.
She must have been then 70 years of age.
At Mark Yeung’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea.
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
HAPPY STATE
Weep! Weep! ye me nof Utah,
Hard by the big Salt Lake ;
What sorrow must ye suffer
Lor the old religion’s sake.
O ! shade of sainted Brigham,
Wring now thy bony hands—J
The enemies of Mormon
Have seized his people’s lands,
The gardens and the orchards—
The pastures broad and green,
Whereon in tens of thousands
The Mormon flocks are seen—
The fifteen dozen darlings
Each Elder has to mate —
All, all the Church possession a
Eschtated to the State !
Ye sinners give ear to the Gospel by Berry,
A teruthful Aposble who speaks what he knows,
And testifies strongly how Scotchmen are very
Successfully nurtured on Bible and brose.
The Bible and Beer are an Englishman’s glory,
On these he is more them a match for his foes ;
But a Scotchman gets raised to the very top storey
Of life on a mixture of Bible and brose.
His Bible the Scotchman devoutly peruses,
On oatmeal his system is nourished and grows,
And you can’t rub him out when he sits up and
chews hip
Theological cud on his Bible and brose.
And lastly, dear bretheren, we’ll make a collection
And shove the plate well under Sandy’s red nose,
And if he wcp’t shell out—why then, on reflection
Ta whusky’s at fault—not the Bible and brose.
THE LADY OF THE LAKE.
Bent and Dow
They had a row,
A row in Parliament; ]
A painful scene
There was between
J. Dow and Tommy Bent ;
Bent said as how
That “ Yankee " Dow
A murderer would make,
And Dow threw out
Some hints about
The Lady of the Lake.
.T Dow and Bent
With one consent
Their sorrow soon express’t,
And each was sad
To think he had
The other man distress’t.
Thus ends the row
’Twixt Bent and Dow,
So they divide the cake,
And share the blame.
But why not “ name ”
The Lady of the Lake ?
Now, charmers dear,
The moral’s clear—-
Don’t flirt with any gent.,
However sweet,
Who has a seat,
A seat in Parliament,
Or scandal may
Result one day,
When members whisky take,
And stories state
Which implicate
A Lady of the Lake, ’
£ Ho. ye who have words on your tongue “
Which prove that the workman’s a knave
Whose greed drives the old and the young
ia. 11 To the brink of a premature grave,
® Come hither ! Just say the words o’er,
w i nWe want them to put in the Press,
And our readers to morrow will pore
O’er the tale of licentious excess !
And ye who can write such remarks,
1 Or find them in books, come this way ;
Z We’ll put them in print, and the parks
wll And the streets will peruse them next day !
sftie Ccu6q,
/4 J fa,>^
But) ye who.have aught to retail
Of bias of employers’ minds,.
Go off, or we’ll send you to gaol !•
Do.ye think that the capit’list finds
The money to start a broadsheet,
And will give his employes a place
In the columns to prove him a cheat ?
Tush! His standing rule is—“ There’s no
space.”
OLD JOKES.
Oh ! the jokes with grizzled hair
That descended from the pair
That Noah old did bear
Up the gangway of the Ark,
These ancient levities
(We’ll swear it on our knees),
Grace the Noose’s “Brevities ”
Rvery evening—what a lark !
For they always seem to rake up
All the jokes that they can shake up
Of Absolom and Jacob,
And Melchisedec and Ham ;
Jests that, mayhap, sent old Homer
Tpto a state of coma,
And that, e’en in ancient Roma,
Were greeted with a “damn.”
Quips of the Medes and Persians
(Perhaps, on the Greeks aspersions
For their Archaic diversions
And their fine old Grecian blow) —
Fun that the wits of Sparta
Did for sestertii barter,
And, no doubt, caused some laughter
In the days so long ago.
Jokes that the muleteers Spanish
Would from their programmes banish
(Though it made the pittites vanish)
They are so gray and hoar ;
But we run across them nightly
Served up in wording sprightly,
These jokelets so unsightly,
And we long for Bennett’s gore.
Gags forgot by Nicodemps,
Tricks of Romulus on Remus,
And the Cyclop, Polyphemus,
On his cannibal compeers ;
Jests that send a quivering spasm
Through Tarawera’s chasm
To the primal protoplasm
Of the prehistoric years.
*' The Governor has gone, thank God
They said at Broken Hill;
While Sydney grovels on the sod :
“Thank God, we’ve got him still! ”
And when he sails for “ home,” thank God !
We need not wear the rue ;
Another perky “Tommy Dodd,”
Thank God, will draw the screw !
When we are old and feeble will a winsome,
stranger lass
Fall on her knees before us, while we smootlie
her hair and face,
And hold her trusting hands ? Ah ! no, ’twill
never come to pass :
Though our voice were sweet and low it might
not utter words of grace.
Away with youthful follies—let us turn oUr
thoughts to prayer,
And end the life in fasting which in feasting we
began,
And, perchance, our trembling fingers may caress
the face and hair
Of damsels yet unborn who will revere the
“ dear old man.”
Not always is sge honoured, nor the baldhead
always blest:
Ancient eyes may look on beauty with a lewd,
ungentle joy j
The “ dear old man,” that might have beeD, oft
totters to his rest
A wrecked and wrinkled, grinning, giddy, God-
forsaken “ boy.”
More Havin’.
(AFTER EDGAR ALLAN POE.)
I was sitting, sadly musing on the wagers I’d been
losing,
Seeking comfoit brief in booking, slowly bcozing
more and more;
While I thought of bygone races ; horses backed
for wins and places
(Dead ’uns in too many cases), someone kicked my
chamber door
“ Who's that something fool,” I muttered, “ kick-
ing at my chamber door ?” —
“ Something ” means an oath I swore. *
Though my nerves were rather shaken by the
pizon L had taken,
Yet that tumult did awaken all the pluck I had
of yore;
So 1 seized the tongs and poker, pausing only to
invoke a
Curse upon the noisy joker, kicking at my
chamber door—
On that unknown midnight joker, kicking at- my
chamber door
Rather louder than before.
I stood waiting, still and steady, for that rash
intruder ready,
When in accents soothing said he (accents like a
lion’s roar):
“Let us in, my rorty pipping, here I’m standin’
cold and dripping—
Wot’s the bloomin’ use of kipping, kipping me
outside the door ?
Ain’t I brought some informashun—brought the
tip you're longin’ for ?”
And his language reeked with “gore.”
All my soul within me burning, lo ! I felt a mighty
yearning
Information to be learning, whereby to increase
my store ;
And the fears I had been fearing in an instant
disappearing-
“ Good !” I cried, “ that’s very cheering, turn the
handle of the door !
Leave off kicking, turn the handle of my little
chamber door;
’Tis but closed and nothing more.”
Down I laid the tongs and poker, when (the night
had been a soaker)
In there loafed a dripping “broker”; wondrous
togs the creature wore.
Not the least obeisance made he; not the least
respect displayed he;
Nor to wipe his bluchers stayed he on the mat
outside my door.
True, he shook some dirt from off them ere he
entered at the door :
’Twas with kicking—nothing more.
In he came with grunt and grumble, first a step
and then a stumble
Till I thought he’d surely tumble flat upon my
chamber floor;
But, though tipsy past concealing, on his legs he
kept while reeling,
And, with eyes fixed on the ceiling, planked his
back against the door—
Put his hands into his pockets and his back against
the door —
Leaned, and spat, and nothing more.
Then this dreadful man beguiling my sad fancy
into smiling
By the strange fantastic pattern of the seedy pants
he wore—
“ Though you come here drunk, unbidden, let
your conduct pass un chidden—
Tell me what to put a “quid ” on for that Cup we
all adore —
What to put a golden “quid ” on--tell me truly
I implore!”
Quoth the Loafer : “Back Men tor.”
In the tip of this disgusting, loose-lived loafer
little t» usting,
Though his words a certain mystic sense of solemn
meaning bore,
How, said I, “ about Chicago, does he carry
too much cargo ?
Cannot Cyclops fast and far go? Won’t they
stand Spade Guinea more ?
Recollect the many races that she won in days of
yore !”
Q’uoth the Loafer : “Back Mentor.”
“Prophet,” said I, “won’t Tradition fill a pm-
minent position
Was he in the best condition when he ran so well
before ?'
Is the Peer a mere outsider ! Can you find a
jockey ‘ “ wider ”
Than the bold Carlyon’s rider? Ain’t Malna
worth going for —
He, whose name will live forever in our glorious
racing lore!
Quoth the Loafer : “ Back Men?or.”
Riled to find my raptures broken by reply so
rudely spoken, 1
Doubtless,” said I, “ what he utters is his only
stock and store;
Caught from Mr. Donald Wallace, who, in pity
foil the follies J
Of poor punters, seeks to solace and to give thenv
courage more
By replying to the question which they ask him
o'er and o er.
With a quiet ‘Back Mentor.’”
Then me thought the air grew thicker, scented by
the fumes of liquor, *
As toe Loafer, breathing quicker, sank upon mv
chamber floor. J
“Prophet,” said I, “ Satan’s scion ! ere my carpet'
clean you lie on— 1
3ay, 0 ! say, will Mick O’Brien make the rush her
made of yore—
Will he bring the horse you mention with that
famous rush of yore ?”
Groaned the Loafer : “ Back Mentor:”
“Be that word our sign of parting drhnl™,n-
beasb!” I shrieked, upstarting-’ “ ken
“ Ge ,» toee back to Little Bourke-street where are
lepermen galore !
G °’ hors S es- hy eVil C ° UrSeS !1 am Sick ° f back ’ n fT
Chief among a dozen sources of the troubles I’
deplore :
Take thy tip from out my soul, and take thy C aD
case from my door !”
Groaned the Loafer : “ Back Mentor:”
And the Loafer, never gibting, sbill is spitting
sbill is spitting
Nasty dark expectorations all about my chamber'
lidor ;
Scorning threat and imprecation, pleading nr r
expostulation, 5
Still that self-same “ nformashun” does the"
Loafer grunt and roar ;
And his words of mystic meaning it were madness'
to ignore.
For the Cup I’ll back Mentor.
EDMUND FISHER.


Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
Toe quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.
Only a few more £lO allotments Evebleigh
Estate, Perth, West Australia. Send for Plans
and Pamphlets. The Intercolonial Investment
Co., 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
The most profitable use for a few pounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Investment Co., Ltd., 96 Bathurst-street,
Sydney
* We expect to get our poetic license endorsed over this.
—Ed.
JOHN M‘EWAN & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Ayents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
45-page List Country Properties, Farms, Crazing
Properties, &0., &c.
35-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
MSnsibns," Cottages, Allotments, So.'
Printed list of Businesses for Sale Issned Ball J*.
All Lists posted Free on application.
Personal Items.
Commissiorjer Eddy’s initials are E. M. G.,
not C.M.G. What a narrow escape from an awful
doom!
Mr. W. B. Dailey was the oldest barrister
on the N.S.W. roll. He was admitted on sth
July, 1856.
Bruce, the N.Z. legislator, who is seeking
a special franchise for seamen, himself served
before the mast.
Judge Windeyer has not belied his reputa-
tion for severity, as witness his sentences on the
shearers atWagga Assizes.
Robert Russell, who with Robert Hoddle,
carried out the first survey of Melbourne, still
lives in Richmond, Victoria.
Among the inmates of a Sydney madhouse
is one who, not many years ago, was well-known
in the political world of N.S.W.
It is said that old Mrs. Batkin, wife of the
Secretary for the N.Z. Treasury, has not missed a
single sitting of Parliament for 20 years.
Cardinal Moran, it seems, has not yet paid
the £lOO which he promised to subscribe to the
Sydney fund in aid of the evicted Irish tenants.
Mr. J. S. M‘Clory, editor of the Adelaide
Sentinel, has written his last “copy.” He was
reputedly the best sporting writer in South Aus-
tralia.
Mr. James Curley, who as the general
secretary of the N.S.W. Coal-Miners, attends to
the interests of 12,000 men, receives a salary of
£3 10s. per week.
Mr. J. C. White, now proprietor of the
Bathurst (N.S.W.) Free Press, in the year 1838
built with his own hands the first Wesleyan
Church in South Australia.
Chief Justice Darley thinks it would be
advantageous if parsons exchanged pulpits occasion-
ally. Would it be a good thing if judges ex-
changed courts occasionally ?
Chief Justice Higinbotham, of Victoria,
opened the chess tournament by removing the
king’s pawn. As a pronounced Republican, he
must have rejoiced in the deed.
Sir Samuel Griffith, ex-Premier of Queens-
land, gave £BO some years ago for a piece of land
at Townsville, the Northern sea port. He sold it
last week, unimproved, for £4039.
It is not generally known that Sir Thomas
Brisbane, a former Governor of N. S W., and the
late Dr. Lang were foster-brothers, the doctor’s
mother having “ brought up ” Sir Thomas.
It has been decided that Disraeli’s memoirs
shall not be published during the Queen’s lifetime.
Dizzy was a cynic. We’d give half-a-sovereign to
know what he really did think of Her Gracious.
On the first i ight of “ She,” at the Gaiety
(Eng.), that ftn.rt sensationalist, Rider Haggard,
was “kidded” by the audience into making a
speech from a stage-box, and guyed unmercifully
by the house.
It is proposed to erect the statue to John
Dunmore Lang in Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Why not erect it in the triangular plot opposite
the old kirk where the worthy doctor held forth
for so many years ?
J. D. Wickham, who piloted a certain
eminent English journalist about Auckland, de-
clares that he saw a fly settle on the great writer s
raspberry proboscis and then drop off in a state
bordering on delirium tremens.
On Sunday week there died at St. Leonards
Marion Morton, the widow of Rev. W. B. Clarke,
the geologist, whose name is historically connected
with the discovery of gold in Australia. Mrs.
Clarke was, we understand, oyer 80 years of age.
The promotion of Mr. C. N. J. Oliver to
the third Commissionership of N.S.W. Railways,
carrying £l5OO a year salary, has been accom-
plished by rapid stages. Fifteen years ago he
was a clerk in the Department of Lands at £l5O
a year.
W. L. Rees, whose name has been flashed
across the wires recently in connection with a big
State-aided Colonisation Scheme, formerly held a
seat in the N.Z. Legislature, and is chiefly re-
membered for a stonewalling speech of 16 hours
duration.
By the death of the Earl of Berkeley and
the accession of Viscount Dursley to the title,
another actress—Dursley married a Miss Brandon
of the Empire Theatre—becomes one of the mighty
ones before whom the British and Australian snob
boweth down.
The Queen, when travelling, always brings
her Windsor Castle bed with her. So does Henry
Copeland, M.P., since the Nash episode. By-the-
way, it will interest many people to learn that
Mr. Nash, who has been of late very ill, is now on
the way to recovery.
The Australian novel, “Robbery Under
Arms,” has, we are glad to see, taken the London
critics by storm. Several of the most influential
papers fairly gush over it —but they all persist in
misspelling the author s pen-name. Bolder-
wood ”is not half so “jammy” as Boldre-
wood. ”
Kong Meng, the Melbourne boss China-
man, has died, leaving 12 half-caste children and
a big fortune. He had of late been up to his neck
in the company-promoting boom. Kong Meng
had a level head and a kindly nature ; there are
few more courteous or generous men among the
white population.
The committee of Munich International
Exhibition having awarded Mr. Whistler a second-
prize gold medal for pictures shown by him,
“Jimmy” wrote the secretary thus: “Pray
convey my sentiments of temporal and respect-
able joy to the gentlemen of the committee, and
my complete appreciation of the second-class
compliment paid me.”
Thomas Cotter, a leader of the Auckland
(N.Z.) Bar, is now on a visit to Melbourne. He
refuses to act as counsel for a person accused of a
capital offence on the ground that, should a con-
viction be secured, he would feel that, perhaps, his
line of defence had not been the correct one, and
that, consequently, he would be in a measure re-
sponsible for his client’s execution. He is a lawyer
with a a tender conscience.
Sir Maurice O’Rorke (pronounced by his
proud compatriots Sir Morris O’Rook), Speaker of
the N.Z. House of Representatives is accused of
nepotism. He conferred the readership of the
House on his son, a hare-brained youngster of 20
or so, and his niece’s husband, Capting Horne
(brother-in-law, by the way, of Mr. Wrench, the
Sydney auctioneer), holds the ornamental and
lucrative post of sergeant-at arms.
Four months ago Mr. G. D. Hilder and
Mr. Weeks, both of the Macleay Argus
(N.S.W.), were sent up for a year’s imprisonment
in Port Macquarie gaol for non-payment of a libel-
verdict and costs. The close confinement has had
the effect, in Mr. Hilder’s case, of bringing on
melancholia, which has since culminated in de
mentia, and the unfortunate defendant is now on
his way to Sydney for medical treatment.
David Berry, of Shoalhaven, who owns an
immense amount of landed property in N.S.W.,
is close upon 100 years old, and has neither “ chick
nor child ” to whom to leave bis immense wealth.
His brother Alexander, from whom he obtained a
large portion of the estate, died at the Crow’s
Nest, St. Leonards, in 1875, at the age of 93, and
arrived in the colony in the year (and before)
Governor Bligli was deposed. It is said that
David intends to leave his vast property for
church purposes in Scotland.
Messrs. C. N. J. Oliver. Under-Secretary
for Crown Lands, and Mr. W. M. Fehon, late
Traffic Manager of the Victorian Railways, have
been appointed as Mr. Eddy's fellow-commis-
sioners on the N.S.W. Railway-board. Mr.
Oliver is a good man and true, whose loss will be
severely felt in the Lands Department; and Mr.
Fehon is said', by those who know him, to be an
official of considerable ability. The appointments
are regarded as honest ones. Mr. Oliver is a
native of Sydney, his father, who died recently,
having been in the convict-service under the old
Imperial ey-‘em.
Not so very long ago a distinguished
dramatist visited New Zealand, and while there
was commissioned by an enterprising newspaper
proprietor to write a series of articles at a re-
muneration something like £lO per column. One
article —and one only—appeared, and it was chiefly
devoted to the laudation of a steamboat in which
IS MARRIAGE A FAILURE?
JUDGE WINDEYER (of the Divorce Court, reading his “Daily Telegraph") : “‘IS
MARRIAGE A FAILURE?’ WELL IF IT WASN’T WHERE WOULD MY
SALARY COME FROM?”
the great man travelled from Auckland to San
Francisco. It afterwards came out that the free
ad. about the steamer was the quid pro quo for
the dramatist’s passage, so that the newspaper
man paid some £4O for the privilege of advertising
an opulent steamship company.
Sir Henry Drummond Wolff's father was a
missionary in Persia.
The S.M. Herald, in a “local," an-
nounces a new financial company with a capital of
£2,000,000, adding that the Downey Brothers, of
Adelaide, are interested in it.
Edmund Kirby, an ancient pioneer of
Ballarat, has quitted this earthly goldfield. He
sank many a shaft in his career and is now laid in
his owd.
Parkes now says that Garrett's appoint-
ment to the Ministry of Lauds was a “ joke.” We
fail to see where the joke comes in unless there is
a subtle connection between Garrett and Attic
salt.
The new Melbourne evening paper will
make its first appearance on New Year’s dav. It is
to bear the extremely respectable name of Evening
Standard, and will be engineered by Mr. James
Thompson of Royal Commission and Exhibition-
secretaryship celebrity.
The defendants having intimated their in-
tention to defend the action, the libel-suit in which
the proprietors of the Sydney E. News and
Town and Country Journal sue the owners of
the Sydney Freeman’s Journal for heavy
damages for having said, in the latter paper, some
very nasty things about the News, has been
set down for hearing before a special jury on 22nd
November.
POLITICAL
POINTS
For every two men employed on the soil
of N.S.W. there are five similarly engaged in
Victoria.
Twenty millions of English money have been
invested in Victorian speculations during the past
two years.
Not a bishop or minister of religion was
at the N.SW. Ministerial dinner, consequently no
grace was said.
Out of the list of N.S.W. magistrates, a
small one, recently gazetted, seven reside in the
Premier’s electorate, St. Leonards.
A Sydney newspaper seriously suggests
that Major-General Richardson should be ap-
pointed N.S.W. Minister of Defence.
The Premier of Queensland is said to be
as discourteous to political opponents as the
Premier of N.S. Wales. This is incredible.
Sir Henry Parkes and Mr. Critchett
Walker cut rather poor figures in the published
correspondence on Holt’s case with Mr. John
M'Laughlin.
The Silver Age is in favour of a “sys-
tematic, intelligent, and persistent agitation for
separation from N.S.W., and joining the Barrier
to South Australia.”
Mr. J. T. Linger), the equity barrister, a
Protestant and Englishman, told the National
Leaguers in Sydney last week that one visit to
Ireland made him a Home Ruler.
“ Mint Sauce” Jones seems to have lost
none of the vigour which distinguished his early
Parliamentary career. He recently stonewalled
the Government in a five-hours’ speech.
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph says
Parkes is “the most impulsive and ill-balanced of
Australian statesmen.” “ 111-balanced ” is good,
and probably refers to his insolvency schedules.
Sydney D.T. now looks (In a leading
article) with a kindly eye on socialism, commun-
ism, anarchy, and things. Should this kind of
thing go on the capitalistic party will have to
shake off its D.T’s.
The Governor’s speech at the opening of
the N.S.W. Parliament last week was as un-
grammatical as its predecessors. This is un-
pardonable, seeing that Mr. John Haynes is now
available to advise the Government.
Five members of the Queensland Parlia*
ment, whose names appear on the registers of
brewing companies, voted there last week on the
repeal of the beer duty. Sir Thomas MTI wraith
and Mr. Patrick Perkins are two of the five.
After its vigorous anti-Chinese whoop
Queensland is rather taken back to find that its
jurisdiction extends only three miles from the
coast, and that, consequently, ships smuggling
Chinese can escape legal penalties by disembark-
ing their live cargo outside the limits.
When a “Marcus Clarke grant” was
under discussion in the Victorian Assembly, no
one expressed more contempt for “scribblers”
than J. B. Patterson, the Jingo wind-bag. He
metaphorically spat on journalism and declared
that Australia wanted men who could think— and
jaw. But, with a General Election in his exalted
mind’s eye, J. B. Patterson has stood upon his
hind legs to sav that “the Press is a powerful
factor in the affairs of the country, and should be
recognised.” And the Press is put to its basest
uses when it polishes up tenth-rate cackle in Par-
liamentary reports.
Melbourne papers say that Mr. W. G.
Taylor, who lias given £50,000 to the Congrega-
tional Jubilee Fund, was, four years ago, a poor
man. Every penny of his money was made out of
land. The Bulletin would here remark that
somebody must have suffered to make this gentle-
man rich.
Speaker Young, of N.S.W., professes to
be a Freetrader, and was hoisted into office by the
present aoidisant. Freetrade party. In addressing
his constituents the other day, he said that maize
was low in price because the Australian market
was over-stocked with corn grown by Kaffir
labour. He would not impose a duty on this, but
would prohibit the landing of it altogether. There
is a Freetrader for you !
A problem of considerable interest to
politicians : If A tells a lie three times out of
seven, and M tells one three times out of five, and
B utters a falsehood seven times out of eight,
what are the chances in favour of an assertion
which M maintains and A and B deny? This matter
must be judged on the initials only. The present
state of the libel law makes it impossible to give
the names of the politicians in full.
Although Scotland, in the matter of
royalties, is more heavily handicapped than any
country in the world, her Statute-book contains an
unrepealed mining law dated 151)2, which evinces
more consideration for the worker beneath ground
than is usual in such enactments. Besides ap-
pointing a “ Master of Metals,” whose duty it is
to control all mining operations and secure a
revenue of 10 per cent, to the State, it “ exempts
miners from all taxation both in peace and war.
and our Sovereign Lord (James VI. of Scotland)
seeing that the said miners are in daily hazard of
their lives by the bad air of the mines, and the
dangers of falling in the same, and other infinite
miseries, takes them all, their families and goods,
in his special protection.” James would be de-
cidedly out of place on the Bulli Fund Committee.
Mr. A. H. Jacob, who was last week re-
elected Chairman of Committees of the N.S.W.
Legislative Council, is the possessor of some pro-
gressive ideas. He favours, among obher good
things, the abolition of oaths in law-courts, and
everywhere and under every circumstance in
which they are now employed. Governors, magis
trates, jurors, members of Parliament, and all
others who enter office through the gate of
Blasphemy, he would, if he could, relieve. But,
on the other hand, he is reactionary on several
serious topics. During the preparation of the
Criminal Law Amendment Bill, Sir Alfred
Stephen liberally availed himself of the ingenious
punitive ideas of the present Chairman. They
passed hours closeted together over the huge in-
strument of torture. For the lash, Mr. Jacob has
more than a sneaking fondness.
He Dug up Denlehy.
Dear Bulletin,— Dan O’Connor has achieved
greatness. Th 9 effulgence of the sun of the
“ man who struck Buckley ” will pale into
insignificance, and posterity will adore a new
popular idol in the form of “ the man who dug
up Deniehy.” We rise to the occasion with an
epic. Scene : The National Deadhouse. Time :
The unknowable after a-while. Argument :
None. Hould yer whisht ! Now !
Stanza I.
With bated breath and silent tread
We pace the solemn aisle, *
Where New South Wales’s mighty dead
Are laid away in shtyle.
(Of course all this is what might have been
If we hadn’t squelched theDaadhouse scheme).
Stanza 11.
(We here Rise to True Poetic Greatness.)
N.B.— Stanza I. is merely a preliminary canto.
We drop a tear near a sculptured bier,
/ And o’er Parkes we raise a wail,
And near in a niche —(we’d like to say ditch)
Is the urn-ed Abigail.
We pass these by with a ponderous sigh,
And a great Mausoleum scan,
And in this place of honour trace, “ Hie jacet
O’Connor,”
Says we to ourselves, “ That’s Dan!”
Stanza 111.
( The foregoing stanzas, along with this one, are'
alone worth the price of admission.)
With brows on the floor, great crowds adore
This big sarcophagus,
And we, marvelling greatly, ask a Johnny-come-
lately
The cause of all this fuss ?
Fourthly and Lastly.
“ Did he in battle fall ?” we ask,
“ Or invent a criminal code,
“ Is his claim to greatness a statesman’s sedatp*
ness,
Or was it a bridge or a road? ”
“No ! no!” The adoring Questioned said
“His lifework was greater. He —
(Laudate, Laudamus !) you ignoramus !
Why, he dug up Deniehy.'”
J. A. PHILP.


p-IPt
fit P'' jO
rile ft fc/l
'ify, ,> m
lf jjfst
Tick]c
* Jut
jSfe, ft V'U
■lft/ 4
Hgjlk is
WmSmk Uc {i %\ [ a tty' i
\ 1 / M 1 '))
- jfJ °f KJ'° r
Jnl//± buy- bcdnyy f P r> *
bHi v y f )j&‘*s* fS '
lun j uJu >5 ,/
/w f
fc :jJp
ft&'A * A/ '7Ze JtrsA’/
xe y«?* V v
</K
. I.
/y 1 T n/ / ]
/J^ &ch, for Rryf "Prize
: ,
| hjoscuc. j
J3pA flccd/e ®
/f 04/re.ssor Of
Paths Voipt
P/rsh 3v^e
\ CrueVcDork pi^CL^ ut ? e
~-P3y tj/ss ftepne/tcL. 'fiycjfesrp
- pojoZcctfe yeytfopP-
'——T t —-— —; o —»
O M/Si Jusccppu. /yexc
/ J £re CC cl ct/d p o f
V-Jp f*opor-
E# i«M - \r
7a.6/fficL 7odJ>tlptt>%
'of yictjkj ‘ JVa. rc/.
. /ye,c/.a.7-
r~ sie>//7nQ OA>* s OG-OOt-S
V t *?V°ZZ A
\firrsZc cCougs- apd- a^/* t
* tjdrf'Ojf '
The Women’s Exhibition: Distribution of Prizes.


fior ZZ £ .
Z l t-CCe/?/^,
fe,(s>\f*upct /?We a%«^
fi£e. S'tir-e~s/'
/^/Z/d^Cc/z- Cou.//Sly^
are_ "£>oc./tel/t?ssloA ccytSl
c<_ T-erct 'poje- ,
” ° ur ?; y L^7 1
&£<*■ ?°T? „ 7
fr/ccf
c -fpqjvi^r
7/Ce, (P//ees>s fee p c£-
(Afetx/y' (j
&~~Aa//c
\i\S/Phofessoi~
'll r«t(-oahof-« &f'
Kcl /'£<- 11
I %r# y
:
fipoil) pap-
fOCh /o ffca/e yoZ/CCcl Op ffe.
Of fctfc, a pecdfa./'of o/borfcufar-
fy cLs/e a* J efa*ypfattery
v Weft, rfa/faf- a)as o)op
=A (J/ ? fa 4/ e r s£arfe-/{ep/b
bo cut race by Out- I
'purPye^p //> I
<X poj puyey-
fifxSecC
patftjer
C|RooND-PLAN
ce/s/o.flifi'.a />r'sy/- /po^-T
7f/£- p</£ST'OA/ or rAKL/ArjEASTARy A. rA Drr K&I/A/J)
Thing's in General.


SWEET BOROMA, the New Perfume. Mann
faotured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia." Sold everywhere. Price 3s. 6d.,
Gb. and 10s. Post Free to any address in
Australasia. Be Bure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-street East,
■HBOBKIWI
Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patbntbd Arti
fical Bar DrxjmH. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing cureß have been effected. Send for 132
paged illustrated book containing “Essay on Deafness,’
illustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
from Dootors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
oured by these Drums, and who reoommend them.—Dr
NTOHOLSON, 65 William Strbft, Melbourne.
The most profitable use for a few pounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Investment Co., Ltd., 90 Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the followin ]
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which oannot be ex
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W. H. PALING ft GO-! Mi
858 GEORGE BTREBT two door* from P.O,
Society
Bollingen
[?]
Husband (who has been acting a little
guiltily ever since he returned from the office) :
“ Nellie, dear, I fear —indeed, I am quite sure—
you must have seen me kiss the housemaid this
morning. How can I .” Nellie dear (sweetly):
“Oh, never mind, Edward, dear; I kissed the
grocer’s boy and the gasman before you reached
the street car. It’s all right.” And how mad that
injured and insulted husband was ! How he did
whoop things up ! Man is a funny animal, any-
how. —Newsletter.
• •
One of the neatest letters on the
question “ Is Marriage a Failure?” contributed
to the London Daily Telegraph contained these
forcible remarks: —
Your correspondent, “ Blue Ensign,” who derives such
happiness from the spectacle of the consumption of rasp-
berry jam by his son Johnny, will perhaps be surprised to
hear that he is practically living a life of free love ; but
such is the melancholy fact. All couples who are living
together because they like to live together, are living in
a state of free love. Marriage has no more to do with
their happiness than has Tenterden steeple. It is only
when a Couple are not happy and are not permitted to
separate that the machinery of marr'asre is working.
Those who confound free love with licentiousness
ought to listen, not to speak. They have nothing to
teach, and everything to learn. Every atom of the
happiness that is attributed to marriage is the sole and
exclusive property of love. “ Upon my word,” once re-
marked Mr. Justice Hannen —“ Willis v. Willis,” Decem-
ber 7, iBB2—“ lam not astonished at any one assisting a
woman in resisting this jurisdiction, which only exists
here, namely, the power to commit a woman to prison
because she will not live with a man she does not care
for.” In other words, reduce marriage to its logical
elements, and it is so inexpressibly revolting that it
shocks even Mr. Justioe Hannen out of his judicial pro-
priety. The question, “Is marriage a failure ?” has been
answered by events. The principle of divorce is flatly in-
consistent with the principle of marriage. When divorce
was permitted the failure of marriage was confessed.
* * ♦
If there ia one place on the face of the
earth which is left all the time it is the city of
Sydney. From the overgrown hencoop which
forms its railway terminus right down to the
Colonial Governors* as a rule, don’t care
to “ parb.” Quite recently an Excellency who
gets a thundering big screw from a miserably im
poverished colony, hired a local artist to paint the
vice regal effigy in it. The artist was naturally
upended with the importance of the commission,
and set to work in his best sbyle and produced a
capital likeness. His wife for once thought her
husband a genius, and was in raptures over the
affair, anticipating a new bonnet, dresses for the
kids, a suit for the bread-winner, and a good time
generally, when his Excellency’s autograph came
to hand. The matter of price had been left to the
Governor, who, being himself a bib of an artist,
was expected to dub up with liberality and
despatch. The despatch, unfortunately, was
greater than the liberaliby. A week after the
painting was sent home the artist received a note
from Government House with a cheque enclosed
for £5 ! The recipient could scarcely believe his
eyes. He expected £5O at least, and here he
was polished off with a miserable fiver. His wife
was terribly cut up, and took to her bed with in-
termittent fits of chagrin and toothache. The
cheque, however, wa3 not sent back, but the artist,
a few days afterwards, visited Government House
and interviewed his Excellency’s aide. He re-
quested the official to ask the Governor bo let him
have the portrait back again to correct a little
defect and show it to some of his friends. The
request was graciously acceded to. The artist
took the portrait round among the local aristo-
cracy, and in a few days gob orders for several
portraits in the same sbyle at £25 each. He
enlarged and improved the vice-regal squint to
make it correspond with the original, and returned
the borrowed painting with his compliments bo
the rightful owner. It has not yet been hung in
Government House.
* • *
The spirit of snobbery and social grovel
resembles nothing so much as the yeast-plant in a
restricted community like that of N.S.W. It
grows with fatal facility until the fermenting
fungus spreads throughout every grade and in
fects every rank and class of the colonial toady.
With wondrous rapidity it ran down from Par-
liamentary swelldom to whisky-mill Shylockracy,
and now it has struck its gassy root in the heart
of the free-born tar. The other evening, in con-
nection with the Sydney Bethel Social Club, was
held the first anniversary meeting at Sailors’ Con-
cert-room, Circular Quay, at which to amuse the
gallant mariner certain well-meaning ladies and
gentlemen performed a short charade, entitled,
“ The Lost Pocket-book,” representing the word
“ Carrington.” Thus it spreads, the fatal yeast-
plant of snobbery and toadyism, and every charity
is infected with the interests of Imperialism, and
British interests, and coronet-worship until the
land reeks in an atmosphere of adulation for the
vice-regal bauble.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —A suggestion that Lady
Musgrave should be made recipient of a memento
was aired in the Courier last week. Those who
started the suggestion are supposed to belong to
the narrow and exclusive clique who, almost by
main force, took possession of Government House.
Seeing that the memento is to simply embody
subscriptions, cynics say that the exclusive clique
referred to should keep it among themselves.
This, also, is being exclusive. Ought not “ the
clique ” to be congratulated on coming so nobly out
of themselves ? Of course, they might subscribe
the lot, bub that would be hugging to their hearts
a mere selfish gratification. It does not at all
follow that because they ate and drank the lot
they are gourmands in every sense. In the sense,
then, in which they manifest generous impulse
and consideration, they deserve ■_ [This is be-
coming rather abstruse, and we begin to think we
are being “ had ” by the prime logician of the set
called “ the clique.”—Ed. B.]
* * *
They are saying in Victoria that if you are
a high public official and are charged with having
disgraced your position by taking under your pro-
tection another man’s wife after getting rid of
your own, it is a good scheme to get a friend to
spend 15 shillings in making the injured husband
so drunk that his evidence at the enquiry will be
discredited.
Dean Swift gave all his money to build a
Lunatic Asylum, and as the fates would have it
died mad ! The Asylum is known to the present
day as “Swifts.” Now, one of the most wealthy
brewers of Colonial tanglefoot has a palatial man-
sion at one of the “ points ” and calls it “ Swifts.”
Herein lies a lot of pint if you can only see it.
•
D. H. Daniehy and “ Orion ” Horne were
in Melbourne constant companions, and fre-
quented a well-known William-street hotel for
the purpose of consuming a certain brand of Aus-
tralian wines. The house had just changed
hands, the previous landlord having been a man
who knew good wine and kept it. Deniehy and
Horne also knew good wine and drank it. The
new landlord, gratified at the custom of such
well-known personages, ordered his servants to
pay special attention to them, which they did.
Horne and his friend, charmed with the excel-
lence of the liquor, invited wine-connoisseurs to
join them and sample. “ Egad, sir” (to the land-
lord), “ this wine cannot be beaten—the finesb we
ever tasted in the country. De Castella has ex-
celled himself.” And so they went on for nights.
These frequent visits and the praise bestowed
upon the wine at length made the new landlord
institute inquiries—only to find that his servants
had been supplying as colonial wine at 18d. a
bottle some choice old port which the old landlord
had had in stock for some years, and which was in-
voiced to the new proprietor at 200 s. a dozen.
THEY MADE HIM DO IT.
OLD LADY (to convict): “DO THEY ALLOW YOU TO READ THE BIBLE, MY
POOR MAN?”
CONVICT (bitterly) : “MADAM, THEY MAKE ME READ IT.”
wonderful system of book-keeping pursued in the
water-supply department it has to take a back
seat, and now its pride receives another blow. _ At
Reefton, on the west coast of N.Z.—a poor little
shattered mining township planted in a locality
which the convulsions of Nature have bashed out
of all earthly shape —the electric light is now laid
on in the streets and private houses are supplied
at 2d. a night. And while this forgotten wart on
the globe’s surface is thus going ahead in the paths
of civilisation, the capital of N.S W. is lit up as
before with the sickly yellow glare of an expensive
gas system, by the aid of which the belated
stranger faintly discerns a two-storey tramcar
that hasn’t been washed since the deluge, as it
drifts like a twopenny nightmare round the
corner, throwing out as it goes a faint reflection
from the grease-spots where the larrikin leans his
oiled head against its gable-end while he spits
profusely down into the street below.
* * *
Marriage isn’t a failure. A certain high
Sydney personage with a tolerably large illegi-
timate family has just married the mother.
* * •
One of the society scribesses of Sydney
says that there are in Melbourne, in full swing,
two matrimonial bureaux. It may interest people
to learn that in Sydney there is one matrimonial
bureau, also in full swing. It is conducted under
quite another name.
* * *
A gay dawg of 77 married a girl of 18 the
other day at Rangiora (N.Z.), and the local paper
denounces his action as “ an outrage upon physical
and social laws.” Probably, when the girl realises
how horribly cold his feet are she will begin to
understand the full measure of her foolishness.
A Sydney draper’s advertisement: —
Ladies, remember that a pound in your pockets is worth
two at ’s.”
This strikes one as a fine healthy specimen of the
Irish bull
. » •
A considerable sensation has been caused
in Sydney by the publication in a local evening
paper of the names of a large number of more or
less fashionable people who are alleged to have
been set down in the insolvency schedule of
a well-known tailor, recently bankrupt, as
recalcitrant debtors of his. Especially in view of
the comments passed by the paper on the list in
question, it is possible that a fine crop of libel
actions will result. Apropos of this little cata-
logue, which includes the names of at least two
men whose cheques for £50,000 would not be re-
fused by any bank, it may be remarked that it
does not follow by any means that because a man
owes his tailor a large sum for a long while he is
necessarily a “bad mark.” There are ma,ny
tailors in every part of the world who charge high
prices on the basis of long credit, and then take
promissory-notes bearing heavy interest, and we
have known many sartorial artists in Australia,
and elsewhere, to whom “tailor’s bill” meant
just as often some little document on which they
had “jumped up behind” at the rate of shixby per
shent, as it did an account for trousers. The un-
fortunate Mr. Gibson, who had to face the music
of Judge Deffell by reason of the tardiness of
his clients, seems to have stuck strictly to legiti-
mate tailoring. If he had gone the way of one or
two other tailors, whom we have heard of, he
would probably have met with better luck.
• * *
Oar gentle sister who tilts the Carcoar
Chronicle (N.S.W.) end of the Archimedean
lever which moves the world is “wild” over the
non-receipt of the cusbomary Press ticket for a
local celebration, and with withering scorn ob-
serves :
A navvy doesn’t pay for digging dirt, a doctor doesn't
pay for prescribing for a patient, and we don’t intend to
pay for the privilege of lying about balls, banquets, con-
certs, et hoc genus omne.
Certainly not, sweet Sis.
• • •
Four girls employed at a Sydney boot-
factory clubbed five shillings each out of their
scanty wages and invested £1 in one of Adams’
sweeps. They had luck and drew £450 each, in
hard coin. The foreman interviewed them on the
day of their good fortune wishing to know if they
were coming to work again. “No blessed fear,
we’re goin’ in for a fly-round on the fifty and
husbands on the hundreds.”
• *
m
The statement recently made as to its not
being etiquette for ladies to attend the funerals
even of those nearest and dearest to them recalls
an incident relating to the burial of Commodore
Goodenough, who was killed at “the Islands”
some years ago, and whose body was brought to
Sydney for interment. A semi-public funeral was
given him and the two seamen who were killed at
the same time, and Mrs. Goodenough followed on
foot from Milson’s Point to St, John’s Cemetery
at St. Leonards. This sturdy wife didn’t stay to
study etiquette when her dead husband was being
conveyed to his last resting-place, but with her
two sons, one on either side, walked immediately
after the gun-carriage whereon his coffin rested —
just as, if need had been, she would have followed
the Commodore in life in a forlorn hope.
O
Mr. Burdetb Smith is valiantly battling
for the honour and glory of his colony in the
matter of a huge pile of wool-bales erected in the
N.S.W. Court at the Exhibition. A special meet-
ing of commissioners decided that this uninterest-
ing structure must be labelled “ Australasian
Wool Trophy.” Our faithful Burdebt supple-
mented this with “N.S.W. Wool Trophy ’’fixed on
the side most in evidence. Another meeting of
commissioners ordered the removal of this harm-
less delusion. And now the resourceful Burdett
has got even with them by hauling a big ‘’N.S.W.’
board up in such a position that it dominates the
trophy and absorbs the public gaze. But nobody
cares twopence about the matter.
•
At the Italian Exhibition in London, they have
set up the spectacle of burning an early Christian
maiden on a pyre, in the presence, of Emperor
Titus and his bloated Roman nobility. When
the lovely young martyr (probably a barmaid) is
enveloped in flames from blazing faggots, a num-
ber of Christian warriors ride into the arena and
rescue the gyurl, after promiscuously settling the
hash of every heathen within reach. Things
didn’t usually happen that way in the days of
Titus, moreover it grieves us to mention that the
early Christians were a bad, immoral lot of saints,
whose Hallelujah meetings would make the Salva-
tion Harmy blush.
• *
More muddle. In a recent N.S.W. Land
Board appeal case the Minister decided that a
man’s bona-fide home is where his wife and family
reside, and several selections have been forfeited
in consequence of the husband not recognising this
vital principle. This is a beautiful piece of busi-
ness all round. If a man holds and resides on a
Paroo selection and his wife happens to be living
with a Chinese cabbage-gardener in a shanty down
Bombala way, that selection is liable to forfeiture,
because the holder of it does not reside in his
bona-fide home, which, according to the lovely
Land Act, is the shanty of the Chinkie. Or,
taking a milder case, suppose the Paroo selector
and his wife are on good terms, but the state of
the wife’s health demands that she must live near
the sea-coast, or die, her husband must either
forfeit his wife or his selection, for the wife
appears to be wedded to the selection far more
firmly than she is to her husband. Mr. Minister
Brunker declares he owes his present position in a
great measure to his reverence for the Decalogue,
but the recent decision given appears to be carry-
ing this reverence just a trifle too far. But “ so
says the bond,” and all must abide by it.
*
Dear Bulletin, —You mention “Oysters
and lemonade ” at the Melbourne show. Now,
I’ll bet that nary a Commissioner will season six
oysters with sugar and run 100 yards after eating
them. At leasb he won’t do it twice. It was
Tom, now Colonel Kennedy, who seduced me
into trying it, on the promise of as much grog as
I could swallow for the next hour, I was then in
the flesh at the Woolwich Soldier-making Shop.
But never again, Tom ! No !! —Wrinkler.
The Maorles have a rough and ready
method of settling little matters of marital in-
constancy. If a wife is untrue to her dusky lord
he summons a conclave of the elders of the tribe
who, for the nonce, sit as a court on matrimonial
causes, and if there is a clear case against “ the
other fellow ” he is fined five, 10, or 50 bullocks,
according to his circumstances, the fine going to
the aggiieved husband.
• •
Mr. Arnold, of Fitzroy (Vic.), school-
master, caned small boy Gresham the other day
and sent that unhappy youth home weeping and
holding on to the place where he had been hit.
For the future, however, we are of opinion that
Mr. Arnold will leave small boy Gresham alone.
For, about half-an-hour after that miserable youth
had screamed his way into his own domicile, Mrs.
Gresham came along and grassed the schoolmaster
heavily with her umbrella, and when she had gob
him down she flogged him violently with his own
cane. This exercise cost her £5 3s. altogether, but
Mr. Arnold’s loss of dignity was beyond all
human calculation.
* * *
The N.S.W. Government is building a
number of cottages at Parramatta, in order that
destitute couples who have lived many year
together may not be separated in their old age
The necessary land has been bought—from t
member of Parliament, as a matter of course
Apropos, in one of the N.S.W. benevolen
asylums are a husband and wife, aged respec
tively 94 and 93. At a Parramatta institution
there has, for the last 18 months, been an inmate
■ aged 82 years, whose wife, aged 76, was for the
same period an inmate of Newington Asylum.


PERFECT HEALTH !
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hookings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whitb
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery
Xni' juality is exceptionally good, and the price very low’
£1 Deposit will secure Good Building Site,
Everleigh Estate, Perbh, West Australia.
Don’s neglect this opportunity of making money.
Plans, W. .T. Douglas, 90 Bathurst-st., Sydney.
£1 Deposit will secure Good Building Site,
Everleigh Estate, Perth, West _ Australia.
Don’t neglect this opportunity of making money.
Plans, W. J. Douglas. % Bathursb-sb., Sydney.
[Interesting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
••
When next you bake try Pemell's Snow-whit* Patbnt
Rom.sb Kloub, and your bread will be as white as snow
The old people seemed to be greatly attached to
each other, they bore a high character, had never
been separated previously, and had been married
55 years.
# * *
Those gorgeous masterpieces of fine art, the
N.S.W. Centennial Commemoration medals, so
generously presented to all the colonial municipal
bodies at a cost of 2-Id. each, are still causing
trouble. One of the city fathers at Grafton sug-
gested that the best use to put their medal to
would bs to job a hole in it and use it as a sinker
for a fishing-line, upon which a patriotic editor
rose in bis wrath, and said, “This is the result of
throwing pearls before swine.” But, then, things
have altered a little since the days when that pro-
verb was first invented. Pearls have gone down
to and swine have riz.
A Queensland paper demands that the
military department should focus its intelligence
on a new outfit for the local troops more suited to
the exigencies of the broiling lands of Carpentaria
than that now in vogue. Somethin* built on the
combination principle, it thinks, would about meet
the case, but what is chiefly wanted is a weapon
which will unite the advantages of a revolver,
knife and fork, corkscrew, pair of dancing-pumps,
rum-flask, and tall, stand-up collar all in one. If
it can be also made so as to embody a tall hat and
a pair of English gaiters it will be about complete.
A physician named Cooper has taken out
a patent for a gruesome dodge by means of which
he intends to preserve human bodies till all is
blue. His apparatus consists of steel presses and
hot rollers, and, with the aid of these, he reduces
the body of a full-grown male to a piece of marble
about the size of a jug. Dead relatives can thus
be preserved as stone crosses or ink-bottles or
paper-weights, and the stern Roman father of the
future can throw his uncle at his scapegrace son
or be “landed” himself on the ear with his de-
ceased wife’s brother Bill. There are advantages
about the process which require thinking over.
* * *
THE TALE OE THE TIGER.
When my wife flies into a passion,
And her anger waxes wroth,
I think of the Lady and Tiger
And sigh that I chose them both !
—Ckntuky.
The London Times suggests in connection
with the Chinese Question that Australia had
better exclude all paupers. This is brutally rough
on the majority of the younger members of the
English aristocracy.
* * *
The breezy suburbof St. Ivilda (Melbourne)
is in a distressful state of mind because a small
quantity of puffy councillors are about to inflict a
new Town Hall, at a cost of £50,000, upon the
protesting ratepayers. In the first instance, it
was to be fixed up for £lO,OOO ; secondly, the
Council intend to put it in the wrong place ; and,
finally, nobody wants a Town Hall, anyhow.
Therefore the burghers of St. Kilda are tramping
along dilapidated roads bordered by evil smelling
drains to hold indignation meetings and howl in
impotent despair. It varies the monotony and
doesn’t signify. Which reminds us that they
elect their own Town Council, and their sin has
found them out.
I liaf seen a funeral precession a mile lorg,
und two weeks later T haf asked who vhas buried
dot day, und nopody could remember. Vhen a
man gets through mit der world der world vhas
through mit him. —Pearl of wisdom from a Dutch
philosopher.
At the Water Police Court, Sydney, the
other day, a specimen of gentle womanhood
known as Annie Thomas was charged with biting
off the ear of Andrew Whittaker. Andrew had
the ear along with him wrapped up in brown
Er, and as there was no ear on one side of his
and as the severed organ of hearing exactly
fitted the spot, the evidence was considered strong
against the prisoner. Mr. Whittaker deposed
that the lady was his cook, and that a slight dis-
agreement having arisen she ha.d charged at him
with a chunk of rock. He rushed her in return
with a soap-dish, and then she took his ear and
fled. The magistrate considered that the ears of
peaceful subjects were not intended for such a
purpose, and committed the alleged cannibal for
trial. ’Ear, ’ear !
There have been a good many hilarious
scene 3 in old Bendigo, but the wildest, maddest
riot of them all was one which took place in the
Camp-hill lock up in the roystering days of 1856.
Smith, of Long Gully, had been found selling
brandy without a licence, and the police gallantly
seized upon his stock and bore the vendor away to
be pent in a dungeon as the reward of his mis-
doing. The thrilling situations which follow
hinge on the seizure of the liquor of the aforesaid
Smith of Long Gully. The brandy, of which
there were half-a-dozen cases, was stored in a com-
partment adjacent to the Camp-hill lock-up, a
draughty, unpretentious structure, built almost
entirely of logs, and consisting of two strongholds,
one devoted to male and the other to female
prisoners. Each consisted of a single room, and
both were well-filled with occupants, the roughest
products of a very rough time. The brandy had
not been in sequestration many hours before the
women succeeded in enlarging a hole in
the dividing wall and prizing open a convenient
case. Bottles of the liquor were passed
between the logs of the obher partition in to the
men; these botbles were straightway beheaded,
and in half an-hour the drunkest crowd that ever
howled was raging in that Government Depart-
ment. A log was levered out of the dividing wall,
the prisoners all crowded into one compartment,
and the little pandemonium sustained its violence
for some time, and, armed with empty bottles, it
held the fort against 15 troopers, till the arrival of
the inspector with reinforcements, when the men
were quelled and reduced to subjection. Such of
the ladies, however, as still retained their
locomotory powers made a break for liberty, and
stampeded over the district, closely followed by
the minions of the law, and cheered on by the
hilarious spectators to whom this joyous episode
afforded the wildest delight. Most of the women
were ultimately captured, and carried kicking,
bit ng, scratching, and screaming, back to “ the
1 -gs ” The men were transferred to another
a id next day the magistrate, “Bendigo Mac.,”
made it extremely hot for the crowd —a pleasant
lid la way he had, as many old residents still re-
member.
[?]
840 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Oct. 31, 1888.
My Dkar Moorabinda,—
MyHobartcorrespondent, “Kurrajong,” tells me that an
exceptionally stylish weedin? took place at All Saint*,
Hobart, on 18th ult., when Miss Fannie Bright, daughter
of the well-known surgeon, Mr. R. S. Bright, was married
to Mr. Loudoun Macleod. The bride wore a lovely dress
of white moire—the eldest bridesmaid was in buttercup
silk, and the four younger ones in white silk with butter-
cup-coloured sashes. Many guests were very handsomely
attired, and the presents were magnificent. When the
happy pair were starting for their honeymoon some mis-
chievous imp tied a large horseshoe of bridal flowers at
the back of the carriage, unknown to the occupant’,
which occasioned some mirth en route to their sylvan
retreat.
“ Kurrajong” also writes: —“The members of the
Hobart Church Institute (a kind of club where young men
can play cards, billiards, &c., under the protection of the
Cathedral dignitaries—gambling strictly prohibited) were
‘ at home ” to their friends on the evening of the 22nd
inst., when the mixing up of bishop and billiards and of
Minor-Canon Dicker with the players' cannons formed
quite a novel entertainment. There were microscopes,
splendid photographs, a wild-flower show, and other at-
tractions, but when two young men with such nicely-
brushed hair divested themselves of their ‘ claw-ham-
mers ’ and proceeded to try their skill with the cues, the
room was fairly thronged with ladies who have been just
dying to know ‘ what the boys do at their institute.’
Altogether, the ‘ cousin and aunts’ enjoyed themselves
intensely and would like to go again.”
At a New York theatre, now being built, they are fitting
up special seats for fat people. The scheme provides for
two seats, 2Gin. wide, in each row, and our old, familiar
friend, the stout lady, will be expected to drop her mass
of adipose tissue in a place set apart for that purpose. It
will never answer.
In a certain high-toned restaurant in Sydney there is
only one regular customer who is ever “ fired out,” and
he is a politician of high grade - He is fired out pretty
frequently, too, but he always comes back. His haunt is
the room where ladies congregate for light refreshment,
and there he smiles affably on the visitors, and whenever
a pretty girl whom he never saw in his life before comes
in without a male escort he sends a little note along to
her by way of striking up an acquaintance. Or, if he
doesn’t care to commit himself in writing, he instructs
the waiter to inquire.
Lord Carington has just had his fortune told at the
N.S.W. Women’s Industrial Exhibition by the charming
Mrs. Sydney DickensoD, who was kind enough to predict
shipwreck for H.E. Apropos, I remember that tome
weeks ago certain persons belonging to the lower orders
were sent to Darlinghurst Gaol for telling fortunes.
I read that in London a few weeks ago a young bride
created a sensation by taking laudanum the day after her
marriage, and stretching herself out on the bed with a
note pinned to her dress in which she stated that she
had gone henoe because her husband winked at another
woman. She was pumped out with difficulty and brought
back to earth, and when she recovered consciousness it
proved that she had acted under a mistake. Next time
the will probably make sure about the wink and tear the
other woman’s hair a little before she takes to anything
so desperate as laudanum and tries to become a remains.
To guard your letters against being tampered with, cut
and shape the flap of the envelope so as to bring the point
of it to the top right-hand corner of the front side of the
envelope, where the gummed surface of the flap secures it
to the front just over where the address is written. Then
fix the postage-stamp over the flap, so that the envelops
cannot be unfastened without destroying the stamp.
Various correspondents request me to state that the
complimentary ball tendered to Miss Emma Wangenheim
by the parents and friends of her pupils at West's Rooms,
Sydney, on 25th October, was thoroughly successful-
songs and music diverting the proceedings most agreeably
—that the annual sooial of Miss Wilson’s pupils and
friends at Tattersall’s Rooms, Sydney, on 20th October,
had only one defect, that it was annual ; that the N.S.W.
Government Printing Office Dramatic and Musical
Society held their monthly reunion at the New Masonic
Hall on the 27th October, when a domestic drama, olio,
and a farce constituted the evening’s agony, and were not
so very agonising to listen to after all ; and that the
Masonic ball held at Yass on 18th October was a triumph,
for the Baron was present and opened the ball w ith a
local lady who shone resplendent in vieux-rose satin and
black lace.
Apropos cf the Yass Masonic ball, I am told that since
that evert, peace hangs over the township no more. Life-
long friendships have been destroyed, and women who
used to visit and kiss one another every day, now glare
belligerently at meeting and oross to the other side of the
road. Lord Carington is to blame for all this. He only
danced with some, not all, of the ladies on view. U.K.’s
private secretary did his best to level matters, but he
wasn’t the rose, and Yass society is now divided into two
sections —those with whom H.E. danced and those with
whom he didn’t. The former swagger and the latter
snort, and things generally are very sultry for husbands
in the City of the Plains.
Quite a tbrorg assembled at that fashionable shrine, St
James’s, Sydney, on the occasion of Miss Connie Cox’s
wedding wuth Mr. Charles Allison. The bride, of course,
looked charming, but the groom didn’t show to the best
advantage, for he incessantly pulled his moustache right
through the ceremony. The unfortunate man evidently
ran away with the idea that he was being looked at, and
eo became nervous ! Pooh ! who at a wedding ever gazes
at the groom ! The Cenediot under discussion, however,
seemed to think that all eyes were riveted on himself,
and all through the proceedings looked (as befitted a
squattab) very sheepish.
There will be a romance on the lawn at Flemington on
Cup Day, and, as true romances are always delightful
reading, I shall retail this one at full length, with all the
stops, and in true story teller fashion. At the Melbourne
Cup of 'B7 a Sydney young lady—pretty, wealthy, and
altogether charming—met Melbourne widower medico,
who fell in love with her instantly ; for him, however, she
entertained an aversion. Itace-week waxed and waned,
and she returned to the Beautiful Harbour, where she
met a Sydney medico, with whom she incontinently fell
in love, and who was so undieguisedly weak in
her direction that relatives on both sides unani-
mously concluded that orange-blossoms were the
only things in it (excuse my sporting phraseology).
But while still these two reputed lovers were below de-
claration-point, the stern parent of the lady took her for a
trip ’ome, and the last thing her supposed Romeo did was
to deck her cabin from end to end with choice flowers and
bid her impassioned if conventional “ajews” in the
shadow of the smoke-stack. When the steamer arrived
at Melbourne who should pop on board but the despised
widower-sawbones, who was also going to the Big Smoke
on business, and and—(l am pausing now to wipe a briny
tear) the second letter after the steamer reaohed England
was from papa announcing the accomplished wedding of
his daughter to the ex-rejected, ex-widowered man of
boluses. The happy twain are now hastening over the
wailing quivery to be in time for the Cup, and as the
other medico intends also to be there, there will be 6port
for the friends of all parties who may witness the merry
meeting on Flemington Lawn.
Mrs. Malaprop informed an enquirer the other day that
the son of an acquaintance had “ not yet finished his
edification.”
A recent “arrival” advt. in the 5.M.11. announced:—
“DOOTLE —At her residence, East Moree, the wife of
F. J. E. Bootle of a daughter.
A really genuine “ Bootle’s Baby,” isn’t it ?
It is no longer considered a compliment to call a girl
the “ belle of the ball.” She might be an electrio bell,
you know 7 , and the eleotric bell is always found on the
wall.
Sydney E. News again
Tyi RS. E M'GREGOR (if name unchanged) or any-
one knowing, remember grizzly of two years
ago, terrible remorse, have been ever thinking.
E. Dispair.
Thi9 is the sort of item that wants a lot of thinking over.
I hear that a certain Australian citizen has gone off
with a lot of other people’s money, and has done it so
scientifically that his arrest can’t be managed. The
lamented Gaiety Co. are said to be the cause of bis mis-
deeds, for he seems to have eloped from these shores on
board the same steamer as those pretty innccente.
In connection with the eloping question, I read that
men-servants are regarded—in England—as “insolent and
ineffectual. Many ladies have given them up, and con-
tent themselves with female servants ” —selecting a stout
and stalwart Mary Ann to fulfd the duties of butler.
Black gowns, white vests, and white caps adorned with
black ribbons are the correct wear for the girls who act as
waiters, &c.—but the butleress usually sports a “ livery
coat and waistcoat.” The adoption of solely female help
is designed to put a oheck on the eloping heiress.
I went to Her Majesty’s to see George C. Miln as
Richard 111., the other night. As Lady Anne, Miss
Louise Jordon (Mrs. Miln) wore her clothes too short in
the front in the first act, and, even as viewed from the
heights of the d.c. albescent underwear was often pain-
fully en evidence when she had on her black velvet robes.
In a calm and friendly spirit I should like to suggest
darker petticoats, lest the stalls absolutely fry in their
burning blushes on future occasions. As to the gowns
displayed in the circle, the fat female showed up in crim-
son satin with black lac 3 sleeves over arms like prize legs
of mutton ; and a very pretty girl wore a tasteful toilette
of white silk and lace with diamonds.
Mrs. Fairfax will not be at home at Admiralty House
until 13th prox.
The V.R.C. have got tired of presenting the winners of
their supreme racing event with a veritable cup, so this
year the trophy is to be in the form of a model of three
gee-gees worked in silver and standing upon silver grass.
The total height of the trophy will be two feet—the horses
being about 14 inches high. And placed somewhere there
will be a shield with “ Melbourne Cup, 1888,” inscribed on
it in a big round hand. Now don’t you wish you may get
it, Mr. White ?
On 23rd ult., Lady Carington—accompanied by the
Baron, Lord Hastings (the Baron’s brother-in-law), and
Mr. Burrow es (both in gaiters and low-cut waistcoats and
billowy neckscarves like air-pillows)—journeyed to the
W.I, E. to distribute the awards due to several enthusiasts
who had distinguished themselves in preventing cruelties
to these noble animals, the cat, dog, pig, &0., for an in-
definite previous period. As the day was damp, there
was a dreary defect in the dressing. Lady Carington looked
charming in maize muslin made with loose fronts over a
pleated vest of cardinal silk, white gloves, gold bangles, a
black passementerie bonnet with cream bows, strings, and
aigrette ; white fall spotted with black, and a crimson
plush mantelette completed her ladyship's attire on this
occasion. The only other dress which struck me was a
deep heliotrope poplin, sash ends worked in gold thread
and bonnet of deep heliotrope silk ornate with gold lace
and pals heliotrope plumes. The three-cheer business
was a dismal failure.
On the evening t f the 24th October everybody connected
with the management of the W.I.E. entertained poor dear
Lord and Lady Carington at dinner in the dining-hall of
the Exhibition. Lady Darley occupied the chair, and the
company included some of the crime de la crime and the
skim de la skim of local saesiety, the latter having its best
frock on and behaving all it knew with its knife and fork.
In his speech proposing the health of Lord and Lady
Carington, Sir Frederick Darley touched on the financial
state of the W I.E. He said that the gross takings had
been £B6OO, and deducting the liberal estimate of £2600
for necessary expenses, a alance of £6OOO would be left
to ba handed over to the charity. Everybody looked
pleased at this handsome result, and then H.E. remarked
that it had been hinted to him that Melbourne was going
to have a Women’s Exhibition shortly. He also hoped
that “ cat-exhibitions ” (as the vulgar allude to them)
would follow in all the provincial towns of the kawliny,
with, “ perhaps once in every five or ten years, a central
exhibition in Sydney.” Which was quite charming in
H.E , wasn t it? Considering that by the time mentioned
he will be clasped to Tummy's bosom, and that the other
fellow will have to worry through all the vice-regal
speechifying and so on.
“In gleam of bullion and glimmer of cooked hat ” did
H.E., accompanied by his small brother Rupert and the
omnipresent E.W., swoop down on the freshly-metN.S.W.
Parliament, to officially take down the shutters and de-
clare the Government workshop open again after the
holidays. The Council ohamber was, of course, thronged
to overflowing with our sex—some of whom abounded
even in corridors and obstructed things beautifully occa
sionally, but, as they wore their prettiest frocks, I suppose
the men forgave them, for, as Nellie Farren would say, they
“ do forgive you when you have your best clothes on.” Lady
Carington (assiduously attended by her flaxen-haired con-
nections, Lord Hastings and her cousiD, Mr. Burroughes)
wore'ecru muslin en pompadour ornate with white lace,
black-beaded bonnet, cream silk bows and strings,
white kid gloves, white complexion-fall, and a scarlet
and white parasol; Lady Hay were black silk ; Lady
Dailey also wore black s>lk, relieving the sombreness of
her attire with a golden-bued bonnet; Miss Darley
presented a charming tout ensemble in white
pongee and silver passementerie, and a white
straw hat, ornate white ribbons and mignonette ;
Mrs. Eddy (wife of the Commissioner) wore black
silk, grey and black hat, and Mrs. 0. J. Roberts simply
took one’s breath away in elc:t-ic blue regally adorned
with gold passementerie, and a blue and gold bonnet with
several pink roses in the folds of blue tulle. There were
dozens of others, including a tall “strawberry” blonde
who had on the greenest dress she could find, and re-
minded me dreadfully of a waratah green stalk, red-head,
and all. Apropos of red hair, a London sawbones states
that red hair proves there to be a large amount of iron in
the constitution, whereupon a waggish newspaper
wickedly enquires if that is the reason why the red-haired
girl gets so rusty ?
On the 27th Oct. the diverters by the Beautiful Harbour
had a choice of wild dissipation, the thought of which
must have almost unmanned them considering the deep
waters of nowhere-to-go through whioh they have been
passing lately. There was a vioe-regal prize-giving at the
W.I.E , there were races at Canterbury Park, there was
the Kemp and Searle boat raoe on the Parramatta River,
and, lastly, there was the Double Bay regatta. Though
there were so many bids for p:polar favour elsewhere (the
evening papers may adopt that phrase if they like) the
regatta was witnessed by quite enough people to cause
the intrepid yachtsman to endeavour to hang on by his
eyelashes and perpetrate wild feats of daring in connec-
tion with the boom while passing the flagship, where all
the beauty that wasn’t anywhere else had contrived to
crowd itself. When one arrives last in a large crowd, the
only thing upon which one can speak with any degree
of arrogance is back hair. I was “ cow’s-tail ” on the flag-
ship on Saturday, and though conscious of an environ-
ment of dressing that appeared to be too sweet for any-
thing, still the effort was for me (metaphorically) simply
a mingling of butterflies and chrysalises. By special dis-
pensation of Providence, I spied out a knobby set-up—
tunio and bodice of brown cloth with tan-cloth vest,
under-skirt of tan-cloth, made very short to display high
yellow boots.
The W.I.E. was the scene of some more prize-giving by
the weary president, Lady Carington, backed up, of
course by H.E. and the two latest aristocratic pilgrims
from Pall Mali’s giddy strand, on the afternoon of the
27th October, when a large and incongruous crowd be-
sieged the building to gape at vice-regality and stare the
prize-winners out of countenance after the manner
of its hind. Saturday was almost the close o
the Exhibition which has run for weeks and must
have made the toilette question an urgent one for the
ladies connected with it. The prize-giving was the usual
sickening spectacle. A shame-faced, jerky bow from an
abashed prize winner with unnaturally smooth hair and
creahy boots—a weary gubernatorial grin and the
precipitate disappearance from the dais, fills the
descriptive bill very adequately—though, of course,
there were one or two shining exceptions. Apropos of
the W, I on Saturday—evoryone visiting the show during
the afternoon was presented with the very delicate and
insinuating attention cf—ahem—a cake of soap. Quite
the unkitdest cut of all, wasn't it?
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Says a Sydney daily paper :
It will be remembered that the steamer Ly-ee-Moon
foundered two yean ago immediately beneath the Green
Cape lighthouse, and that the 24 bodies recovered were
interred in a piece of ground near the lighthouse. This
burial place has since been fenced in, but the ground
it3elf is in a disgraceful condition, the whole place being
overrun with weeds biei9t-high. No memorial has been
erected to indicate that the enclosure contains the re-
mains of a few of the victims of perhaps the mo3t dreadful
catastrophe which has occurred on the Australian coast.
The graves are all in one portion of the ground and at the
head of each i 9 a rough slab of wood with a rudely-painted
number, indicating the number of the buried from 1 to
24. Some of the remains were not identified and the
numbers correspond with memoranda retained at the
lighthouse as to distinctive marks on the bodies or
clothing.
AUSTRALIA: The Land that I call Mine.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Ob, a land doth lie
’Neath the Southern sky
And redemption’s starry sign :
'Tis my motherland,
And no other land
Will I ever own as mine.
’Tis the fairest land
And the rarest land
On which the sun doth shine ;
’Tis a glowing land,
And a flowing land,
With honey and milk and wine.
’Tis a royal land,
Not a loyal land
To the lie of the Right Divine,
But a queenly land,
Nob a meanly land,
Is the land that I call mine.
’Tis a sunbright land,
’Tis the one brighb land
Where War has left no sign.
Nob a sundered land,
Nor a plundered land,
Hath been this land of mine.
Once a scourged land,
Now a purged land
Is this fair land of mine ;
A morning land
Whose dawning grand
Is as the rainbow sign.
Then, brother-band,
Our motherland
We ll pledge in her own red wine,
And may she stand
A maiden land
While laves her shores the brine.
Melbourne
P.M.


Something New In Sewing Machines.
THE
BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
WHAT IS THERE SPECIAL ABOUT IT ?
THE restless march of invention has enabled
us to bring before the public improvements
of immense value, to some short account of which
we beg your attention for a few moments. Our
calling is to relieve the home-mother of all that
may weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout, a pleasure. That we have during the
last seven years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
for the truth of which assertions, as of the follow-
ing, we humbly request that your own eyes may
be the judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTON
HOLE MACHINE in one. The re is no other in
this market. There is no other in this world.
The “Button Hole Appliances,” so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine,
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALE PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
as the Family Machine, but is expressly con-
structed and fitted to make Button Hole 3 in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
a most wonderful actuating mechanism in the
head. All this is the subject of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by us for the sum
of £7500. The whole cost of the Machine, extra,
to the public is, cash, eighteen shillings. We
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
ful Embroidery ; a herring-bone stitch for blankets,
woollens, or other materials; you may do over-
casting or top sewing—-never before possible with
Sewing Machines —as fast as you can feed the
work. And, above all, you can make single barred
or double barred button holes and eyelet holes
with the most marvellous precision and perfection.
Herein, the fingers of the practised seamstress
cannot with the greatest expenditure of time and
labour, produce work cf similar quality. And
remember, the Machine-made button hole, in
addition to its beauty, is inherently far superior,
for each stitch is Locked. Button holes which
ought to embellish a garment, are often only a
disfigurement. Look at our samples and judge
the effect of fine work for yourself. By all means
have good work instead of bad, especially when
you can make six perfect Button Holes while you
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand.
Get a BEALE MACHINE, practise it we will
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like,
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the rising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn freely to pass underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonder-
ful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all
clicking sounds having been obviated. As is well
known, a good test of the finish of any mechanism
is its silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL PLATING.—In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones. Heightening the appearance,
these improvements also tend largely to preserve
the parts. '1 his plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
the place cf the cramped and clumsy contrivance
of former years. When closed it securely fastens
the cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excelleno tension, is
strong and simple.
The BOBBIN-WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
We have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. No, the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing
machine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484, and 486 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
MBLAOH R I N O.
This most Celebrated Brand of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES
Has now the LARGEST SALE in the World.
Melachrino »V Co., Cairo, and 21 Cockspur
Street, London,
Are by appointment Purveyors to H.R.H. Dukb of Con-
naught, H.R.H. Prince Henry of Prussia, the Courts
and Ambassadors of Europe,
The KHEDIVAL CLUB ... Cairo & Alexandria
„ ARMY and NAVY
CLUB
London
„ GUARDS’ CLUB ... London
„ CARLTON CLUB ... London
and over
100 leading British and Continental Clubs.
The ROYAL ARTILLERY}
Woolwich, and 30
other Stations
BLACK WATCH
Perth, Dublin and
Malta
„ COLDSTREAM
GUARDS
Windsor
„ ROYAL ENGINEERS}
Chatham, Alder-
shott and Cairo.
„ LIFE GUARDS ... London
and
150 other Regimental Messes of the British Army.
WARREN & ROWffi,
Sole Agents,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of the Choicest Brands of
MANNA, MANILLA and BERMAN CMS,
ALSO
Jtar Sole Agents for the Cadcmeno Brand of
Egyptian Cigarette.
Fresh supplies arrive by every Mail Steamer. Cigarettes
always fresh and fragrant. Price Lists forwarded on
application.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allkon
Doors open 7 Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD
IN THE GREAT AND POPULAR PLAT
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
Prices, 5b., Ss., 25., Is.
Box Flan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Grand crystal palace
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band every afternoon
and evening; conductor, Mr. Geo. Vassie.
EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING GRAND SPECIAL
NIGHT,
LADIES, Is.; GENTLEMEN, 2s.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
Alhambra music hall,
George Street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Grand Sacred and Classical concert
every
SUNDAY NIGHT at 7.30.,
when will be rendered a choice and select Pro-
gramme, under the conductorship of
Mr. CHAS. AUSTIN.
SEE DAILY PAPERS OF SATURDAY.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mußgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
MISS CARRIE SWAIN
MAP.
MAB
the
MINER’S DAUGHTER
MINER’S DAUGHTER.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
ONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular plcnlo and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from OliflE to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates —fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUOICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
TO NIGHT and LAST NIGHT OF
AnEntirelv Newand Original Comedietta, entitled
BUBBLES, BUBBLES,
by Charles S. Fawcett, Esq.
Followed by
Pinero’s 3-Act Fantastic Comedy,
IN CHANCERY. IN CHANCERY.
FRIDAY NIGHT, THE BUTLER
ADMISSION—Ss., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra musio hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
DOME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
HARRY DEVERE and OAKES MAGGIE
in their Original Variety Sketch
THE LONG AND SHORT OF IT.
OU R BLONDINETTES
OUR BLONDINETTES
supporeed by this mammoth COMPANY.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Baloony, fid.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Reoreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thubsday and Satubday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Pionlos, &o.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
S. FREEMAN A SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Satho'i Bakin* Ptwien, Orient Soian Slue,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD ft CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS. PERSIAN SHERBET.
Ac., Ac.
STEAM WORKSj
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
JJOTANY 1 BOTANY! BOTANY I
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 8.30.
Grand Saobed and Classical Concert or
Well-known Artists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest I
Under the uonductorship of Mr. Ohas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH Director.
-\TEW HAYMARKET MUSIC HALL,
131 George-street, Haymarket.
Lessee George Barr.
Stage Manager Martyn Hagan.
GREAT AND GLORIOUS SUCCESS.
The Great and Wonderful
FAUST FAMILY,
and their GRAND COMBINATION.
Herr YON DER MEHDEN, the Musical Marvel.
THE GRAND RISLEY PERFORMANCE
The opinion of everyone the best Entertainment
in Sydney.
THE BEAUTIFUL WHITE MARBLE
STATUARY.
Popular Prices, 2s. and Is.
General Manager, FRED. DARK.
JUST PUBLISHED.
“THE BULLETIN'S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED U
BY
The Bulletin’s well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Price - ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, Is. 3d. (except Queensland).
ALL AGENTS.
THE ITALIAN BEE Co,
Parramatta, Supplies Italian
Queens and Bees, Extracted
and Comb Honey, Frame
Hives and Implements.
MR. EGERTON CLAIRMONT is no longer
in our employ, nor is he authorised to
canvas for Subscribers or collect Accounts,
Bulletin Newspaper Company, Limited.
The Foreign and Colonial Exchange Bank of
Australasia, lilmlted.
REGISTERED OFFICE : CIRCULAR QUAY.
Travellers to other parts of the world are in-
formed that they can obtain coins and notes of all
nations, also circular notes of exchange, negotiable
throughout Europe and America and in the chief
seaport cities and capitals of Asia and Africa, at
the above address. This bank undertakes the ex-
change of money of all nations, and all usual
banking business. T. S. RICHARDSON,
Managing Director.
Down at Hamilton (Vij.) the Salvation
Harmy have “ been seen playing cards.” So long
as the captiogs play square we don't object. It is
better than playing wind instruments, anyhow.
■“ Like all the other aldermen, I don’t
know what I am voting for ; but, by voting for
and against a motion, I can’t go very far wrong—
that’s certain.” —Alderman Billerwell, of Five
Dock.
Colonial Soldiering. —Dear Bulletin, —
The boy is father of the man. Me ! a soldier
Walker, Honour and Glory! My trouble?. I
know all about it- I was a cadet in the Volunteer
Cadet Artillery in Gotham. It was a lark to get
out for the day, but the drill killed me. I used to
iget into the centre of the rear rank next to Jimmy
Jenks, and we broke a cigarette in two and
stooped down to light it. But the cursed company
was five or six yards off when we were well a-puff,
and the cheek I suffered from the drill-ser-
geant I never shall forget. Then we had blank
cartridge firing at the Albert Barracks, but they
gave us ball-cartridge and told us to throw away
the bullet. Jimmy and I never did. We always
aimed at the chimneys in Cambridge-street just
opposite the barracks. You remember a China-
man being found dead in the scrub near Candle-
wick. It was a day or two after one of our drills.
When we had ball-practice I always aimed over
the butt. We found out very soon why the com-
pany was formed. One of the officers went
whacks with the tailor who supplied the uniforms.
It was Queen’s Birthday that cooked me. No !
No more soldiering for me. Give us a match. —
' Hiram Artff.
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufaotobt :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, In any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, In various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spbing and O’Connell Stbebtb.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economio
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbing Stbebtb.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wabdbobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Gupboabd
and Two Cane-Seated Chaibs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbing Stbebtb.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE,
A VIBT OOMFIIVI
Abbobtmbsv,
Many quite new design*.
Nbwtoh & Lamb.
CANVAS FOLDING
OOTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
PATEN
BHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging spaoe
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
QANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable (or Shipboard and
Verandah.
Prioe Very Low.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spuing and O’Connell Stbeets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rusfcio
Oast-iron Standards, 14b. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs
\JT Indian Long-Abm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Oonnell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, be*
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAM


Wednesday Next, 7th November
On the Ground, at Three o’clock.
On the Ground at Three o’clock. On the Ground, at Three o’clock.
□Tlh-e aufter tlh-e Cup!
Tlie ZDsl3t a-fter th.e O'u.p I
Country Visitors have now an opportunity to join in the present boom, and no other Estate being offered possesses such a combina-
tion of conveniences, having Grand
Water Frontages, Business Sites,
Mansion Sites, Villa Sites.
The Vendors have decided that the Country Visitors should have a good opportunity, and thus the
Fourth Sale of the Maribyrnong Park will take place on the Day after the Cup
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
MARIBYRNONG PARK.
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
Locality Sketch
SHEWING
MARIBYRNONG PARK
4/2 MILES FROM MELBOURNE P.O
HlVt*
i
1
m
m
MILE
ROAD
fk ASCOT VALP
r* STATION
SHOW
grouND\v£
Newmarket
ft STATION
FLEMINGTON \
iIRACECOURSt\\
1
MELROURN E \
Y% post
\\OFPIce
CANZ
km
/
V
FOURTH SAXE
FOURTH SALE'
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
MAKIBYMONCr PARK.
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH SALE
FOURTH
F< )URTH
SALE
SALE
BAYLEE, SHEVILL & CO.
Will then offer
MAGNIFICENT A.? LOTMENTS
Any resident of the country desiring information Plans or any particulars, will be readily informed and attended to by the Auctioneers.
The Plans and Passes will be ready this week.
Keep this in mind, and reserve a portion of your attention for the Fourth Sale of the Maribyrnong Park.
Terms: <£lo Deposit, Balance Three Months’ Bills to Two Years.
Terms !
Auctioneers in Conjunction :
Baylee, Shevill & Co.,
E. Shattock and J. J. Kendle,
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. Madden & Butler.
Surveyors:
( Messrs. Terry & Oakden.
j J. 8. Jenkins


Business Announcements.
tar TJ3IE3 OISfLT
Direct Supply iucciation!
658 George Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
6 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and ever]
description of fittings, and purchasers will dc
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others.
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. 6d. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 355,
~ ~ ~ „ steel notes ... 50s.
Organ Concertina, in wood box 21s.
c
The finest show of ACCOKDBON S to be seen
n the colonies from 10s. 6d. up to £5 at anj
prices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 30s. Od.
Patent Silver „ „ ... 325. 6d.
Patent Steel ~ ~ ... 355. Od.
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/ , 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and extba set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOE
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
HR MIR STB,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
hitu, Cello, Vida Double San, Harp,
Sithar, k, He,
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5,6 or 7 it ii •» 10j~.
NIGGER MINSTREL FITTED
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
furnished throughout.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
special lines, we at once despatch Instrument. In-
struments packed carefully and sent to any part of
the colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIRfIONSEN, Manager,
SOS Street p
SYDNEY.
Pearls in the Mouth. —White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel,
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off Or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists.*
William's Australian Insecticide Is death to ail Insects.
Simple in application—sure In effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumeß of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 267 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rouslllon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hockinss of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
Er pi pv
&
g>
<3
$
&
O
<;
s
A
&
g>
$
Yi
o
V
&
9
&
-e
o
*
v
O
V
ss
9
Su
o
a
V“
\ x
<b
Ys
<\
o
O-
&
*
:;
« x
V
'•?
r\
V
<
9
:d
O
390 a GEORGE S T
s-^rxxKTiersr
A modest brevity from a Sydney evening
paper :
“ Brutal butchery with a hatchet. See 1 Murder as a
Fine Art ’ in this week’s .”
This ought to take well, and when the joy sub-
sides the may, we humbly suggest, keep
the game alive with “The Rapacious Razor Reaps
Its Ruthless Ruin;” or, “The Bloody Barb Begins
Its Butcheries Once More.”
Centennial Hotel,
SCOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
Newcastle.
Wines, Beers, and Spirits a Speciality.
Hot, Cold, and Shower-Baths on each Flat.
BILLIARDS! BILLIARDS!
THIS Hotel is now opened, and admitted to be
the Best Fitted and Furnished Hotel in the
Colony. It is beautifully situated, being directly
opposite the Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to the
Railway Station, and convenient to all the Public
Buildings. A porter meets all trains and steamers.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
WALTER SIDNEY, Proprietor.
JC
ei
H*
S
o
S
T
O
11
,
DELSSSAk PHILLIPS
' 35. 5 Barrack Street.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANT**
HO. 78 CLAREHCE STREET, STOREY.
61
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTEHTIOM TO THE BUYIMB OF TEAS.
—— 10! ——
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
Tiie Bast Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
iring aa
ETTHI
F&RLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
li YORK STREET. SYDNEY,
iota Agents Soa the above tor New Sooth Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisite* for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all details, including Machinery.
the following Special Lines r— PEERLESS GLOSS, SATLN POLISH,
imported Leathers. &o. s and of 1
WHBIAN BLACKING i T.»«e*»' Tool* anf Material*.
Indent* sxesoted on Vavoogablt Term?
DR. RICHARDS,
OM
RO
NSUtf
l)CO
D? RICH ARDS
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, baahfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE FOUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire'
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
cases since coming to A ustralia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
off Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
Consultation Free.
SHE KNEW HIS WHISKERS.
MRS. O'HONE: “BE AISY, MOICHAL, OR YE’LL DHRIVE ME INTO CON-
VULTIONS WID DTHE TICKLIN’! "-Puck.


Business Announcements.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
Pitt Street
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
BRUNTO IPS
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Om be obtained throughout New Sooth Walev
Queensland, and Ylotorla.
SYDNEY ... 84 Pitt Stmki.
BRISBANE... ... ...Ed ward Stbii*.
MELBOURNE _ Spawgiw
Medical)
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured !
The Greatest Success) / All Chronio Disease
of Modern Times, f comuLT \ are Curable.
Hr, I, E, HUSELHANN, Consulting Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
CO WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you ace suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[COPT.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1886
To H. E. Kugblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 16 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
dootors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
Kectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
mgs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1886, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
whioh I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse ; expec-
torating very muoh, and throwing up several pieces of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
oulous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as 1 did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Deolared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
tar All Consultations Free. 'Hi
Notioe.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given whioh
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
hot being Effected.
A SQ7E&EI6V &EKED!
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Doloeeux, Aohinb Fains in bhe Limbs,
Face, or Head,,
Why suffer those excruciating Fains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAMS RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure In a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
neoessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and IBs.
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Byes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its.agency oan be seen. Admitted by the Medloal
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. I. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Ohemlit,
681 Gaorara-straet, only
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin, for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
Office,
3-H3-A. IfcT ID I HOTEL,
CORNER OF
& MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
VS'
ivsßsm<
COSCROVS
sfm
I't
ar>«
a
Ladies* Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’t, Hotel) Pkopkiktkess.
THE
“PLUM"
Razor.
THE
a
PLUM”
Razor.
FOR Private Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use. Neve*
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor, 10s. 6d.,
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Potosfl Haircutting Saloon,
O' Nine Haircutters always Employed !
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man's Watch ASonnd and Reliable Timekeeper. A Genuine Rnylish-
made Article, and the Cheapest and Best Watch in the Market.
KF TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY.
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
*
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washebs, Gaskets, &0., <feo. Moulded to any Blze. Rubber goods for all pnvpoiai.
Lists and Samples on Application.
RRINS SAUCE
In consequent of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSH/R8
SAUCE which aft calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and flrrrmt
have la request that Purchasers Set that the Lahti A JnO&
hears their Signature thus**
without Which &> lotlU of the original WORCE9 TERSffIRJt
SAUCE it genuine.
Ask fat LEA and PERRlffff Sauce, and set Nanu on Wrapper, Label, Radis ams
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester », Cross* amt
ilaeMtell, London, 6v. t ,6v. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Kawwinm. Jfeaaw > Cni n«Tfe Camera fr CsC «»<■»
"Wlxat is 3rou.r XXoToTo37*"?
m
Most people have one of
some sort. If you don’t
happen to have one, or
if you have been indulg-
ing in one which returns
but a poor satisfaction for
your outlay, get rid of it
as soon as possible. Better
be without than keep a
bad one. If you have a
taste for Art : if you
want a remunerative
hobby—try —-
Photography !
Instruments and Materials are not the costly toys they were. Anyone can learn it—every-
one can profit by it. The cost of every requisite for a beginner is so low it will surprise you.
W
SATISFY YOURSELF BY A VISIT TO OUR
WHOLESALE w PHOTOGRAPHIC WAREHOUSES.
-lA
IJCJITNEII & CO.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Albert Street, BRISBANE.
43T Send 2d. Stamp for our Illustrated Instruction Book and Catalogue, "THE AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHER. 1
Assurance Companies.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, IT Vie.,
No. 11.)
Registered Capital ... ~ ~ Ml, 800,001
Paid-up and Subscribed ... MS,OOI
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esa., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest -
For S years 7 per oent. I For 1 year 6 per oent.
For 6 months 1 per oent. | For 8 months— 8 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
Of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST oharge on Its entire real and personal
property. Including Its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, eto., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Anotlon and
Private Contraot.
Hiad Of llO*—lo, &12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated nnder Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL, £500,191.
Sydney Offioe,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS ;
8 months, 5 per oent.
® ii 8 ii
12 „ 7
And a Bonus deolared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per oent. 6 months 1£ per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors,
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
The Australian Mercantile Loan A Guarantee
COMPANY, Limited.
Capital £500,000.
Sydney Offices! Corner of Met 1 York Streets,
Accident, Insurance and Guarantee Department.
General Accidents, Employers’ Liability,
Fidelity Guarantee Policies t
Issued on the most Favourable Terths.
Pboposal Fobms and Tables of Rates upon
application.
Robt. B. Wallace - Accident Superintendent.
The Company also, in its Banking and Commercial
Departments, make Immediate Advances upon Deeds ol
Land and all classes of Commercial Securities.
DEPOSITS reoeived at 12 months, 7 per r-nt. ; six
months, 6 per cent.; and three months, 5p- • -it., and
bonus at maturity.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL 1H AUM: .
General Manager,
Business Announcements.
K ln G’s V'ews
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLAN OAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&Cs, &os,
316 GEORGE ST., between Seetor-st, aed 5.P.0,
TATTERSALL’B
imsm commnm
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“ Evening News.” Address, “ Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
FOR SALE.— Two grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply.
Bulletin Oflfioe.


“The Old Man of the Sea" on the
shoulders of theN.Z. Press is a venerable monopoly
yclept the Press Association. It is run by a few of the
wealthier papers, and retails news to the less im-
portant journals. In the large cities a new journal
Is required to shove £5OO into the maw of the
monster before it can receive a line of cable or
telegraphic news. The service is an execrable one,
but, through the great cost of cables, which would
preclude any single paper receiving its own news,
all the newspaper-proprietors are required to
support the monopoly.
Dan. O’Connor, Im Pay, was banqueted
at Melbourne recently and in a “moighty spache ”
ascribed the prosperity of Victoria, not to her
fiscal policy, but to the superior energy and ability
of her inhabitants. This was certainly a left-
handed compliment to his Sydney constituents
and goes to prove that Dan. should kiss the
Blarney stone on both sides. Punning on the
name of the worthy Mayor the “Jaynyal Wan
made allusions to the scriptural house of Ben-
jamin, but evidently he forgot all about the
“ second Daniel come to judgment.”
The Brisbane Tramway employes have to
sign an agreement, some of the clauses of which
are to the following effect. The manager can dis-
miss an employe at a moment’s notice; the em-
ploye cannot leave without a week’s notice; the
wages can be reduced at the discretion of the
manager ; whether a driver is dishonest, or
whether a thief manages to rob the fare-box, or
passengers manage to escape paying their fares, it
is all the same—the driver has to make good all
deficiencies ; on no pretext is a driver to leave his i
car while on duty ; if taken suddenly ill, he must
remain at his post ill —unless he has the bad
manners to die ; if absent from duty his place will
be immediately filled unless a doctor’s certificate
be forthcoming the day before ; once dismissed, no
driver will be reinstated on any pretext; no em-
ploye may appeal from any decision under these
rules. Strange to say, the employes lately struck
Amongst the adulatory hogwash that has
been poured forth concerning Her Graciousness,
we fail to notice reference to one matter for which
the Queen certainly deserves credit. We have so
often had occasion to disapprove of the old
lady who holds the sovereignty of the B.E. that a
recognition of a hitherto unnoticed quality in Her
Majesty will come with very good grace from The
Bulletin. We have nad, ad nauseam, the Queen
as a mother, the Queen as a wife, the Queen as a
Christian, the Queen as a mother-in-law, the
Queen as a grandmamma, the Queen as goodness
knows what else besides ; but we have never had
yet presented to us the Queen as a humourist.
But such she is. The Bulletin, after a desultory
study for 10 years or so of “ The Queen’s Journal ”
and “ More Leaves ” has at last come to the con-
clusion that it was in a vein of subtle humour
that she penned these ostensibly sombre pages.
The apparent dulness of the chestnuts about
“ Dear Bee ” and “ Brown ” baveiunning through
them a fresh, rich, delicate river of fun that takes
years of study to elucidate, but once the student
“catches on ” it’s plain to him as the scheme of
salvation to the saved sinner. We can now fancy
the dear old Royal humourist as, deep inthe throes
of literary parturition, she “got off,” something
particularly “ gorgeous ” in the way of a concealed
jokelet, choking down great chunks of merri-
ment when she foresaw that the vast majority of
the “dear subjects” would treat her festive
lucubrations with reverent seriousness. We
ask the dyspeptic, the debilitated, the hypochon-
driac, whom tonics and elixirs have failed to bene-
fit, to try a dose concocted by the Royal
Humourist of the House of Guelph,
ml
V*N
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried."
(Signed) Mane Rote.
THE
PATENT
Diagonal Sets Corset
Will not Split in the Seams nor
tear in the Fabrio.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corsetstamped “ Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
Three Gold Medals 11
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
GBD. GBD. BBD.
HUB FAMOUS AND FATOURITF BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
BtUI maintain* Ui Freitlge and itand* pra-amlnant amok
the hoite o( other brand* u
IHR BIST QUALITY BBIAB FIFB OFVBRBD SO
BMOKBBB.
Bowure of Spurious Imitation®.
Tbe undersigned ere prepared to anlora* tha Law agalait
al! cerium imitating the bn nd.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT * 00.,
11l OLABINOI-BTBBB*.
asD. aBB,
We have Large Shipment, ol thl, BRAND OF BEIAi
FIFBB to hand and Regular Shipment, coming forward
WHOLBBALB ONLY.
j|»2Q BUOKBOARB BUGGIES
Regular shipments of the Best Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x din. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
BOSISTO’S ORIGINAL AND GENUINE
EUCALYPTUS OIL is the best Remedy
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Sprains,
Chilblains, Whooping Cough, Asthma, Croup,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat, &c. Preserves furs from
moths. In the stable it is valuable for broken
knees, cuts, &c., whilst it keeps off the attacks of
flies. Ask for Bosisto’s ‘‘Parrot” brand, and
avoid imitations, which can only lead to disap-
pointment. Full directions with each bottle. At
all chemists. Bosisto’s “ Parrot ” brand.
£lO,OOO
given away to buyers of a Bottle of Breadalbanb
Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferguson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
LAUNCESTO3, TASMANIA.
ELECTRIC PHOTOENC. CO.. 8 BRIOCE-ST-.
A, DELEUSE
SYDNEY-
Proprietor
S’XSESST-CXd.A.SS SOUSE,
Wilts, Fmcb Liquors & Himni Cigars a Speciality & House, Cuisine Francaise,
TEETH JLIKE PEARLS,
-jhlte ml sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a hautny action of me gvms, and deligfcßr-
:<®]By fragrant breath can beat b# obtained by discarding gntsy tooth jccwders and **44 wsahuc
-'aft using daily
Odonto
sir Fearl Dentifrice, a white powder composed of the most recherche ingredients of the Orients,
herbal, and warranted free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients; It whitens and preserrep
; lfea teeth, prevents and arrests decay, eradicates scurvy, strengthens the gums, and gives e
releasing fragrance to the breath, while its anti-septic and anti-scorbutic properties exercise
tilghly beneficial influence on the teeth and gums. All Dentists allow that neither washes Off
reastea can possibly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay as a ]JBTS
•o,u-gritty tooth powder: such BOWiUANDB’ ODONTOJti** always gjsoyed iwalf. ,
- - . *3 r
Ho other Odonto is gemobsa
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR
Mi and golden-haired people and children.
•saw soMl ?» a golden ©olowr 9 m
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR toeaiafcifflca fclto ©oaaplaxion, «rw£ic*t«§ All cnbmomg
W- 4 t>« «V*Wl WmOOfcfcl MRUS fIaJUUjP&S- &W, %QT
x. lir ■■ ■, vs wei>--Ra*nn Jlamr-JW uadi awflAff at* rvnil
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7.
This is to give notice that on Wednesday Next, November 7, that
most exquisitely situated estate at Schnapper Point, Mornington,
KNOWN AS
WILL BE OFFERED FOR SALE
v, IN ALLOTMENTS, w
Wednesday, November 7,
Has been e elected by special request, that date being the “ off day” in the great V.R 0*
Spring Meeting ; thus our sport-loving public will be able to enjoy their sport and at the
same time will not be prevented from attending this sale. On the date mentioned, the
FAST AND FAVOURITE S.S. OZONE
Will leave Sandridge Pier about Midday, and in an Hour and Twenty Minutes
You step ashore at
SCHNAPPER POINT PIER,
and then a very pleasant ten minutes walk brings you to this
CHARMING ESTATE,
And for your trouble you will be Amply Rewarded, for once on
BELEURA ESTATE
The soul expands as the Glorious View unfolds itself to the
enraptured gaze.
“Beleura,” g “Beleura,”
It will be remembered, was the late Vice-Regal Residence of CHARLES BRIGHT, Etq.,
and is Surrounded by the Palatial Mansions of the
Hon. C. J. JENNER, M.L.C. ; SAMUEL GILLOT, Esq. ;
ROBERT SUMNER, Esq, ; and T. S. GRICE, Esq.
and FROM ANY I’ART of the estate
Noble Seascape and Charming Landscape
Can be Easily Obtained. And the land has been subdivided so that
EVERY ALLOTMENT
HAS UNEQUALLED ADVANTAGES IN THIS RESPEC
THUS EVERY INCH OF THE LAND
IS A
SITE FOR A MANSION!
When the Railway Line is Opened to Mornington, which will be Early Next Year,
THIS NOBLE ESTATE
Will be within a few minutes’ walk of the Station.
u Beleura ’ is Without Doubt the
HIST SSiUITU ESUTI II UmilK!
D 1-
Prom its Height can be easily seen the Queenscliff Lighthouse, a 1
Equally Well the Williamstown Lights, in all the beauty
that distance lends to the Charming View.
MUNRO and BAILLIEU,
IN CONJUNCriON WITH BRADLEY and CURTAIN,
WILL OFFER “ BELEURA ” ESTATE IN
tSo/endld Marine Mansion and Villa Sites
ON
Wednesday Next, Tth November.
Terms, £10; Balance up to 24 months at 6 per cent.
Solicitor : W. H. FLOOD, City Bank Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Surveyors : J. & H. TARRANT, City Bank Chambers.
• MUNRO & BAILLIEU, 40 and 42 Collins St. East, and BRADLEY & CURTAIN
Auctioneers . bury Buildings, Bourke Street West, Melbourne.


Hotels.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOUIBURN, N.S.W.
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
* Wtl Ple rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
M
OUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QUEENS-
LAND.
tinder the distinguished patronage of His Ex-
J®*lency Sir A. Musgrave, K.C.M.G. Accommo-
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey buildings. Prom
*“ e balconies a splendid view can be obtained of
•he celebrated mountain of gold, end within a few
hUnutes’ walk of the company’s works. Passenger
s*}d mail coacheß daily from Rockhampton and
railway-stations. W. MONCK.TON, Pro-
prietor, of the firm of Monckton and Co. h ,
MOUNT MORGAN.
Queensland National Hotel,
20 BEDROOMS.
5Z3
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitors.
®very comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
°hlp. Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiser, Proprietress.
WOODS’, HOTEL,
MELBOURE.
jjggOBITB P att.WAV TgRMINPS, SpENOKB StBEET.
VISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
find all modern improvements, such as light,
and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
*hd needle baths passenger elevator, electric bells,
•elephone, and all other hotel requisites, not to be
Jhrpassed in Australia. Visitors can rely upon
called for early morning trains. Letters
*jhd telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
Moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
Medical.
. DR. SPEER’S^
DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET t
(Setween George and York Streets.)~itP.O. Box 920.** Dr,
•Peer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
®*rvard College, U.S. (lor confirmation see New Zealand
January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
® a *ette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor"has devoted 14
to the Btudy of AND
DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
2*Pitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
°°niplaints with excellent results. All applying to
ffj** Will receive his honest opinion of their complaints,
; no Mercury used. He&will guarantee
„„Posxtive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
rr oo - His reason for’doing so is this—when there is no
rfsanic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
other words, a conglomeration of symptoms’producing
"certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
jS“ Ve d with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
Wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
r Perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
U® claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
gproughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
,SfCIAL DISEASES of MEN aNd WOMEN. People
dst & at a distance can, by explaining* their troubles m
hot- be at heme. The course of treatment will
a;-" ui any way interfere with their business. Examina
Rr. and advice free to all. Charges 'moderate. H. J.
M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
l?* e ts, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
n. a.m. to 12 a.m. ; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
110 U a.m. only./ »«» " h
Free
PBaSOBIPTIOKB are to
» be found in the " LIGHT AND
( or Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DRJ
«ILITY and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Address-
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street Sydney.
Goi EMANE & SONS ’
Eucalypte Oil 1
AND
Victoby Ointment. _
RURE EXTRACT from the/Eucalypte Tree.
L , M "Bs * """T '< 1 M
Warded GOLD MEDAL Adelaide Exhibition,
l st , beating all other competitors.
•'rize Great Centennial Exhibition, Sydney.
6kJ?. a h be used for Consumption, Asthma, Bron-
•didn Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Bad Legs, Kidney
Gravel Complaints, Sprains, Colds, Dysentry,
ut > etc. Posted to any address. ' ; u ,
r v Manufactory: Cootamundba.'
Depot: 227 ELIZABETH [STREET"
Sold by all Chemists.
CSk'U’EiiHl W BL JUeSTttn .
Millar, carter andiiao.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents, w )
St and station? agents^
Syi sbatle Office —227 Queen-street.-'
Chgs®ey Agency—-John Bros., 17 Custom-House
Ainiv 8 ’ Circular Quay. %
Ch a J°r°urne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Rra* rs ’ Market Street.
Ouches and Agencies throughout Queensland,
„ -AL'NOTICE.—The Sydney 1 ; Bcpletin,
RiSk /Iranian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
•h hri A LD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
<taaJ lVailce ), Six Shillings and Sixpence.per
or One Pound per annum. v.'
Ae Av, Bulletin will be on sale every Friday, a
** eorge Street, or from the runners i
Badness Announcements
HATS. HATS. HATS.
EXPIRATION OF LEASE.
20 per cent. DISCOUNT for one month ONLY.
Our noted Guinea Silk Hats at 17s.
Our noted Half-guinea Felts at Bs. 6d.
Straws, 3s. 6d., 4s. 6d. and ss. 6d. at 2s. 9d., 3s.
6d., and 4s. 6d.
Pullover Cork Helmets, 12s. 6d at 103. 6d,
MORLEY’S BEST HOSIERY at cost price.
UMBRELLAS, &c., at cost.
C F. PRIDDY and Co.,
438 GEORGE STREET, 438
(nearly opposite Lassetter’s)
ANI)
862 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
StW'f EC® WOT
and
Hare your Umbrella ®r»p# gft
cowed, aadtydn#'
Parasol* re3ined and-
to New, at
3. SULLIVArfii
Ml seoree Street
BBofcftsM HHI, betwee-
I>i»erpoo»l a ad. Bathurst
Parasols made tt> ,m»t4 ®s*
buses. Repairs neatly
PALACE FAMILY
Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE
9ls it" class Accommodation. Suites of Apartment*
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House In the City.
DAVID LYONS Proprietor
Excelsior hotel, charters
towers.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
<60,000 to Land.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &a.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 96 Pitt-
street. Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on 8 ' ~3E
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight''in
f)ld. Send your full address, and we will send Post
ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
KTCASREis^
FACTUKING.HATIE*ic
I UFA
GEORGF S 4 RFFT
SYDNEY
VPORTERS Of All THE
■ NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
V
r*
P
v .
%
*
owrnHZ*^
FIRST CLASS AWARD
highest decree; of merit
a
AUG
P*kinqP*
sr mri*
ISTH EBEST INIHLWORIf !<
No N E OTHER BUT 1
WAUG H $
rfECE i VED THE INTERNATIONAL
PRIZE M EOAL
STaNUFACTURED BYjAMESUIANMd#
H ardowA SVSyDN tjr
Sold by AH CroctwinlttwJuweers
Basinets Announcements.
A WONDER* UL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
IP
PATENT
PILLS.
3
w
&
*7
Vp
5K
-:
Are universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling:
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costiveness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
ling Sensations, Ac. The first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses ot them carry off all humours* and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If ta>en accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
will soon restore females of all ages to sound fend
robust health. This has been proved by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the moat
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BKKCHAM’S PILLS have the Largeet Sal a of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
Am a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheeling, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
COUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short ume be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
tho Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
BANE OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Branchesi
II PITT STREET, and 638 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital *1,000,000
Resarre Fund 600,000
The Bank has Agents In all the prlnolpal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canaan, Mid can offer special facilities for dealing
la Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred't.
Drafts leaned and Bills oc’leoted on most favour-
able terms, at rates whloh can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIh Acting Manager.
OIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mobb MERCURY ob oteeb Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr.: T. C. WRIGHT,
SL„ Elivi M 8., Ch. M., &0.,
SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Speoial oomplaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified praotitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, ha*
established the
Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,
18, FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronio and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright oures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, aud Mind Affections, Sorofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Deoay, Inoapaeity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so: if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effeoting a
sure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
years that the Dr. understands your oase.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Batterers can be treated equally well at a distance,
Sf.B. —I wish it distinctly understood that Ido not olaim
te perform Impossibilities, or to have miraoulous power.
I claim only to be a skilled and suooessful Physician
thoroughly Informed in my speciality.
Note Address—
FEQSmSIVE VESICAL INSTITUTE,
68, Flindebs Stbeet W., Melbourne.
MT No connection with any other Medical Institute fit
Australia. Box 268, G.P.O.
WANTED, Files of Th* Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
office.
Business Announcement!.
Guiness’s Extra Stout
FIRS'! QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
V. Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Ryiießl
Robert butcher j& oo
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine aa<
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and ont* M
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
D"'RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should geta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
1 "■" I I ■! I IlfKl
6. STEPHENSON
HAS OK BALK-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VA9R(
RUM, SHERRY, Sc WHISKY PUNCHEON!,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLN
BUCKETS, fco.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STRNBfII
Between King and Market Streets.
*™ uguttai hi wuitm. unu *n«
Memrd Ml Mr did ihit, ,
land urlU do it on either baid \
rhec ! or ban fact. Mont* ]
heavy Mouetaehe in from 3 to 1
. >4 UK*k* and never faUe.Xljm* * , —. .
aonritbted. young men aCready mar fuU AwrtftMl
beards, having used Ito 8 jp*to. Mo infury, oaeUy applied, eertak,
in eftst. Machete, la. &». aaok, S/or St. 6d' port paid, anrt Nadar
s.
<ujuau, xniK, icuvouuu, oilman MnniM»|
(SB PITT STRBBT 1
MMqnoea oa Hl*i
johm ",auc;khah,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mir
t Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon
Covers (Greased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
Coolers, Whin Buckets all sizes, at lowest prices.
Note the Address.
Oldest established house in the trade.
CTOKCTsT BTJO 3K:I3[JSIM,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL .”
D BERNARD’S Piotbrk and MootmNa
• Stobb, 899 George-street (opposite Royal
Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&0., carefully Btretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts out with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plash
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
aurpasaea all other, for Its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Thke* Gold Metals-
PARIS, 1878, CALCUTTA,IBBI,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
I registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents
ATKINSON’S
odour It far surpasses the numerou* com
pounds sold under the same name
ATKINSON 3,FLORIDA WATER,
an exceptionally fine perlume for the hand-
kerchief, dimmed from the choicest exotica.
Of mil Dealert , and of the Hanujactufer*—
J A K, ATKINSON,
U, 010 Bonn SraaßT, Los now.
. Trade Mark—'*White Rote' 1 on“ Golden
Lyre.”


BEHAN’S
ZBletcls: Oils
OR
EMBROCATION,
FOR
ram, emus ms.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Scars.
~l
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
■ n ■\S aiU £
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGE;
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF aud ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Wholesale:
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co , S. Hoffnung
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co,, W. H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Brisbane ; E. Fletcher, ]|Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, V.S., 33 JPitt'Street, Bedfern.
PRICE ... Bs. 6d. Per Bottle.
Sold by all ChemLsJs, Saidlers and Storekeepers
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the ciivlised world where
tn h aii og virtues of these grand medicines have not been
riiiaed. b.v thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their benefioient action is ao once
rt-c s. nioed. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured onlt at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. £3T Pur-
chasers! ould look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they are
spurious.
P. B. LARKIN,
IMPORTER OF
X - WINHIS, SPIRITS, IB E] T-0 lEfc S &C. a &j 0„ "«
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson's Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old) ; W, Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
£2T The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. S3T All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arrivicg by monthly steamers.
Prince of Kales Hotel, 778 & 730 George Street.
Wliolesa e and Single Bottle Departments, 782 aid 784 George Street, Sydney.
’ GST SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' RE~FRESHMEST~ ROOM and LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons). ‘ '"
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prmce of Wales’ Hotel).
NEW
FURHITU IE WAREHOUSES'
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street , Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALL A Oil
MASON BROTHER
.
s;->? *
'i
yp> x
263 to 269 ’KENT STBJ*%
Have always in Stook for
to the Trade and Whole*"
Buyers Qedf>
IRON MON GERY
GENERAL
GLASS, CHINA
AND . o %
earthenwa*
WINES, BEERS & SP^
g£&*
AND
BULK MERCHA.
Agents for qOlft
rOHN WALKER
Old Highland WhhW
J. SORIN and CO/®
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Go# 8 ™
A. MELVIN and g**
Edinburgh Pale A^>*
7 - *jj p ¥
XX7 E CAN REOOM»
B BUGEIB’*
(from Paris} If
Ladies’ and GkntiJ,* -si
Hairdressing Salo°®,
As the most central and Pj
WIG-MAKING 1 AND tS
French and English Perfumery. Tolls®
Private Rooms for Dyeing tin* •*
ADDRESS — "
96 ELIZABETH STREET .
rs from G.P.0., next to Colon**"
(a few doors
MELBOURNE.
'Wlllia-xxi. ZBiallard., 3-42 G-eorgre Street, S^cLneS^'
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC. NOVELTIES IN CHINA ft GLASSWARE.
FANS, EASELS, BRACKETS, PURSES, CARD CASES & JAPANESE CURIOS.
BALL PROGRAMMES. CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING OE EVERY DESCRIPTION. J,
INSPECT THE SWEET
BURG
AT THB
Wertlierm
SEWINB MACHINE DEPOTS
V I O T O B I JSL.
MELBOURNE
>1 HI
Richmond ...
Windsob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
EOHUOA
BEECHWORTH ...
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL...
SALE ... h.
MARYBOROUGH
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanaton Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bonrke street.
69 Swanaton Street, opposite Town Hall.
... ... Swan Street.
... ... Chapel Street.
... ... Start Street.
m m Fall Mall, next Lyoeum Stores.
... 66 Moorabool Street.
... m Main Street, next Aeschimann’a.
m. «. High Street.
m ... Camp Street.
... ... Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
... ... Foster Street.
... ... High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
ESS
"'fc;
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUtHOUT TNi
Q-. 2T. PZCZZIdES da SOWS, CarxSLstg-e 18-alld.© 3 ’* 2 ’.'
THH MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA,
B, 7,8, 11 LSTBOBE STREET WEST, IBELB o***
32, 34, 38 SBUiSWICK STREET, PIT*B°’V
City Repository!
Metropolitan Hanofactory i
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE . ASSURANCE SOCIETY
NEW TABLE. —TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival, FULL *
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. tSST Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom. ' , , H
nervous to e b ,i; i. i t *.
™ A VRBE HBDIOAL BOOK.]
HERR. RA.9MCTB3HS, Tha Oalebrabed Dialab Harballsb, Spaslallab la Neivoaa Dlsasiai,-
WtU seal (past) free) bo aajroaa a Free Madloal Boob oa Satr-Oasi ioa NaavoGta DaaiftHf ASSt
DiSB4SB3. Iti glvea apaalal alvloa 4o all kiad o! aaHarara. Addiasa—" M J l iA- 1
HERA RASMUSSEN, Oanlifcj Harball*:, “
157 Li7ss?oDii srasar, hfdb firr* sfdnhf, new aocrca wWiC 55
A. MARSHALL
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Fodndbbs, 1
Finishers, Plumbers, G-asfitters, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Medina*
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels- sit
ALL*
Fini
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden wneei». te g
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prioes —11> UUU
deso*!?*
importers and Manufacturers of Hiving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of fl nd
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, a.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore B ° ad ’
