

oPEmira-
OF THE
ondon & American
TAILORING COMPANY,
k CORNER OF
IDNEY AROADE & GEORGE STREET,
ON
SATURDAY, sth MAY, 1888.
INdS, SUITINGS, & TROUSERINGS
Isjgll just arrive in time for the Opening of our Sydney Branch.
& AMERICAN TAILORING COMPANY’S DEPOTS are being Opened
in all parts of the World,
STAND UNRIVALLED!
respectfully request Purchasers to bring the Superior Quality and Low Prices of the Garments
ee their friends On account of the material being supplied direct from their own Manufactory, a saving of at least
is ensured Our WINTER SHIPMENTS, consisting of all the latest London and American Designs in
y R CELEBRATED ELASTIC PANTS,
V.
Made to Measure, THREE DOLLARS.
Establishments, and our Addresses are—LONDON, AMERICA and VICTORIA.
Our NEW SOUTH WALES Address is—
Sydney Arcade & George-st., Sydney.
FI ll\ 1 ' | ———
terms must be cash-on or before delivery.
Patterns Forwarded, with Self-Measurement Chart, to any part of the Colony.
' W. PEKITE
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.
Ward man Bros.
I 'V.
r'^
ANUFACTURER
r
/
GoiPtHSrfii/f';
4/VO
Trcacu
Rff/NfftS
i
f fsro,
/ass 4
HWCiIiORS
IWRERrAWNAViY
Ufa? **nct a Factory, nevytown
BRANCH. &EOPCE ST SYDNEY
Waverley Hotel.
OOLLINS-PLACE, COLLINS*STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
Comfort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513
MRS. M. COLES, Proprietress
Business Announcements
*
*
C 3
O
X
☆
o
<v
yov\
SIR ROGER
50
£
C 3
fa
N
□IXSONS
CaXJEIEIITSL^LISri3„
ILLAR, CARTER AND CO.,
. Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
M
Brisbane Office—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
mm MLorai usrt.
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
l'l I M
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable
information.
79 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
HOT SEA-WATER BATES.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. Kilda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains In Kidneys, Fog Fever, and Its after effects.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
■lmply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
PAIN
MOTIkTON'S TP AIN PAIUX
curss.au. pain.
The best khhWfi remedy for
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
BPRAINS, BRUISES BURNS, SCALDS, &0.,
and taken internally cures DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other
Internal aches and pains.
"V . - JPP
p&m JR/
sold Bver/wli,«U>
f.VMOutfoN, sou fooroitToo.
PAINT
Business A nnouncements.
The remington type-writer.
err-
Saves labour, Btationeiy, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, ana condensing matter to lea* than
one-halt the apace occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.
410 Eenb-Bbreet.
11
M, RILEY
(iatoe of the Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Rents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution,
expedition and strictest secrecy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his care.
FREE
PREBQBIPTIONB are to
be found In the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Core of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this
book will be senb Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps. Address —
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-Btreeb, Sydney.
GT STEVENSON
HAS ON SALE—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE,
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
E CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
t the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address—
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
SAMOEL ALLEN & SONS,
CONTRACTING CARRIERS,
FORWARDING AGENTS,
Head Office:
TOWNSVILLE, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
T SoYEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tio
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
§£; DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will gite instant Relief and Cure in a few days ?
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and -10 s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION. ~
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. i. ESSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George-street, only.
Hotels,
Belle Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE,
Opposite Parliament Houses, Botanical Gardens?
and Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
ACCOMMODATION FOR NINETY.
*A Waiter meets every Steamer.
Letters and Telegrams please address proprietor,
S. M. COLLINS. •
Mining exchange hotel,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
Commercial hotel,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
First-class Accommodation for Commercial Gentle*
men and Families. Private Sitting-room without
extra charge. Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards
(Alcock’s). First-class Chef. Charges strictly
moderate. Wines and Spirits of the best brands.
Man meets every steamer.
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
IMPORTANT NO T I CjE.
WJK
Mr. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry & Bolton)
wishes to inform the numerous friends of the Firm
and the travelling public that he has gone to
Mount Morgan to take charge of the SUNBURST
HOTEL, which will henceforth be carried on under
his personal supervision. Sunburst Hotel, Mount
Morgan, centrally situated, and facing the cele-
brated mountain. Persons visiting the celebrated
Mountain will find every comfort and convenience
to greet them on their arrival. BILLIARD TABLE
and PIANO on the PREMISES, also STABLING
for the accommodation Of THIRTY HORSES, and
a good PADDOCK within five minutes’ walk of
the Hotel. Coaches Daily from and to Rock-
hampton. Note the address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
lot the Firm of Lowry & Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL,
Mount Morgan.
FITZROY HOTEL,
' EAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON,
First-Class Family Hotel.
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting-room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON, Proprietor.
PALACE FAMILY HOTEL,
Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
B irst-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID LYONS Proprietor.
JAY’S PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL.
ST. HILDA.
mHIS first-class Hotel offers superior accommo-
I dation to visitors and residents, being in a
healthy and central position, fronting the Bay,
near Esplanade and Baths, and within five minutes’
walk of the St. Kilda Railway Station. Private
suites of apartments, ladies’ drawing-room, gentle-
men’s smoking-room. Hot and cold baths without
extra charge.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
M A C K A Y.
UNSURPASSED Accommodation for Com-
mercial Travellers and Families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy Meets Every Steamer.
I make comfort of Travellers a Special Study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA,
N.S.W. First-class Family and Commercial
Hotel. Plunge and Bhower bath. ’Bus meets
every train. J. E. PATTERSON, Proprietor.
Good Sample Rooms.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockhampton)
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows6s. per diem. All meals Is. 6cL
’ -- 1 ; . . ..
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
FIRST-CLASS TABLE,
Terms Moderate.
MUSGRAVE HOUSE,
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor.
JgIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS,
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOUNT MORGAN.
Queensland National Hotel,
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitors.
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiber, Proprietress.
Hotels,
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, fIOULBURN,* 1
First-class accommodation { f c
gentlemen and others.
sample rooms. JAMES SIMON b
M
ASONin HOTEL,
HAMPTON. —T. MURPHY, W &
• p O CI
pion says : “ I can recommend w
Masonic to my western friends.
~OUNT MORGAN HOTEL,
JJ . _
Under the distinguished 0^
cellency Sir A. Musgrave K.C.Jn- •
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey
the balconies a splendid view can •thin*'
the celebrated mountain of gold, g> pa**
minutes’ walk of the company
and mail coaches daily from
MONC
Kibra railway-stations. *W. (jo.
prietor, of the firm of Monckton a
Business Announced
E. I) __ _
MINING AND COMMISSION
Mining ExchaN 06 ’
CHARTERS TOWERS. QU W'S*
u
»
tfATSCAPSi
Uiß CtOR C£ ST
gaCPNBY|
/
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE RED.
gC r
Stud* m J
ParasOl® re tfe* ®
J. "
kfieW
Brie
Lirerpool
parasols
# :
ROP
tuna® B
HE ORICINA 1
Ml
FIRST CLASS
O S
HI CHEST DECREE 0 '
V . >,.#
p
WA U C H *,/
r J Tut (NTtP .L
V t
r*
p
R
Tt
ARTIFICIAL £l
COWPL^h),
, , V 'gfl 1
MARSH ALk
DENTI|LfH
133 ELI Z


The Bulletin
Vol. 430
SATURDAY, APRIL 28. 1888.
Price, 6d
“Calico Jimmy.”


NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillingt
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of ovr earners, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.*
Proprietors s BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO*,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, eta., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to bi addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
Communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
ihtJZaUetCa.
SATURDAY, APRIL 28,
The Secret Source of Crime.
That brilliant Frenchman, H. A. Taine,
says somewhere in his wonderfully analy-
tical “ History of English Literature ” :
“ When we scratch the covering of an Englishman’s
morality the brute appears in its violence and its defor-
mity. . One of the English statesmen said that with the
French an unchained "mob could he led by words of
humanity and honour, but that in England it was neces-
sary, in order to appease them, to throw to them raw
flesh.”
If this is so, how great the responsibility of
those who feed the animals ! Taine says in
another place :
“ Vice and virtue are products, like vitriol and sugar;
and every complex phenomenon arises from other more
simple phenomena on which it hangs.”
The simplest action in a man’s daily life is a
factor in the gradual moulding of a citizen.
The clothes he wears, the people with whom
he associates, the food he eats, the air he
breathes, the very sunshine that pours down
on his head, his habits of bathing, smoking,
drinking, his mode of locomotion—-whether
does he walk or ride ?—the age of his father
and mother at the time of his birth, their
tendency to various diseases, their race,
religion, all conspire to produce the man in
contrast to a man. Everything he says or
does and all he hears or sees assist either by
assimilation or opposition in his develop-
ment. As Buckle puts it
“ The actions of men, being determined solely by their
antecedents, must have a character of uniformity, that is
to say, must under precisely the same circumstances,
always issue in precisely the same results. ... All
the vicissitudes of the human race, their’ progress or their
decay, their happiness or their misery, must he the fruit
of a double action ; an action of external phenomena upon
the mind, and another action of the mind upon the
phenomena.”
In other words, all those actions of
men which we are accustomed to term
virtuous or vicious are not so much actions
resulting from the operation of men’s own
volition, as they are actions resulting from
men’s antecedents which introduce disturb-
ing elements and bring about manifestations
altogether unexpected by the superficial
observer. That is to say : If Jones were a
nervous man, subject to fits of depression
and worry, and if he had known Smith, also
a nervous man subject to fits of depression
and worry, and Smith had in one of those
fits hanged himself, the probability is that
Jones would at some time or other imitate his
example, even to the method of taking his
own life.
• # *
Every year many men kill themselves, and
no doubt this is in great measure due to the
contagion of example. Where men kill
themselves because they are dying of starva-
tion, though the number of deaths in pro-
portion to the population is not increased,
yet a mode of dying seems to gain favour.
This is an instance of antecedent influence.
When men were hanged by the dozen for
sheep-stealing, the temptation to steal a sheep
and be hanged appears to have been irresis-
tible. Everybody must, have heard the
anecdote of the Frenchman who, upo
witnessing a noble performance of a tragi
masterpiece, exclaimed, ‘‘ I too, will be
poet!” The victim of excitement of the pre
sent time varies the utterance, and upon reac
ing of a specially atrocious and blood-thirst
crime, exclaims, even if unconsciously-, “ ’
too, will be a murderer.” And so th
hysterical girl finds in some newspape
paragraph the necessary incentive t
concoct the tale of violation or t
make her debut on the pare. The menta
machinery is already deranged and wanl
only a tilt in a particular direction t
develope an entirely fresh and possibl
altogether unsuspected phase.
* » *
As many boys have been incited to
roving life by reading Defoe’s immorta
romance, and as many a young thief, ha
come to the gallows by way of a perusal of th
adventures of Jack Sheppard or Claud
Duval, so the crime of a more dubious com
plexion, the experiment in lewdness jmc
salacity, is germinated in the minds of th
mentally diseased by scanning the bruta
paragraphs collated by sensationally-ribak
journals whose one end is gain per medium
of an increased circulation. These degradec
sheets devoted to the records of lasciviency
adopt any and every means to secure thei
object. They act as procurers to tire stew
of debauched imagination and play th
pimp to intellectual pruriency, which they
lusciously pamper and pander to by a re
chauffe of lubricious details. They are th
literary recreation alike of the trull and the
prude, and are conned with feverish eager
ness by the vulgar emotional religionist—
the fanatic of the slums—and the larrikin, to
whom vice in its grosser vagaries is an open
b?ok.
* * *
The Sydney Evening News is an ole
offender in this matter, and, like cheese, i
grows ranker with age, and shows no signs o:
falling off in the savageness of its impurity
During the past few years it has given to
grateful gutterdom reports, minute as i
dared, of nearly every sensational crim. con
and rape trial that has taken place in
England, a country sixteen thousand miles
away. With a thoroughness worthy of
sewer-fossicker it has served up the rottei
garbage of disgusting divorce cases ant
lingered lovingly with an air of intensest de-
votion over the revelations of the moral dis-
secting-room. Not long since we were
afforded an opportunity of noting that its
hand had lost not its cunning, and that the
journalistic conciliatrix of rutterdom stil'
ministered to the wants of the erotic, while
the moral fulminator stood by with his lash
to drive the lesson home in the consciences
of the snuffling, albeit prurient, professors
of pietism and purity. An incestuous rape
had been committed in the Grafton district,
New South Wales, by a wretch named
Inman, upon his two little girls, aged re-
spectively 11 and 15 years. The News, not-
withstanding the fact that it prefaced its
report with a statement to the effect that
“ all boys and females were ordered out of
court,” gave a sufficiently revolting account
of the horrible lust and lechery of the case
to afford to potential criminals in a like
direction enough food for carnal thought for
the manufacture of a dozen or so similar
outrages. It is impossible to even faintly
adumbrate the terrible injury inflicted by
this sort of thing upon the health of public
morality. It should surely be enough for
the proper administration of justice for the
community to know, in a broad and
general sense, that a certain offence had
been committed, without raking over the
abominable mullock-heap with a ribald
pen, more than hinting at atrocities that
not even the bare, naked facts of the case
would warrant. In such recent affairs
as the Pall Mall Gazette and Lady
Colin Campbell cases—not to mention
others equally notorious—the News, with
the true delight of the chiffionier, displayed
all the filthy particulars at full length with a
relish for its employment positively revolt-
ing, and with an effect upon the minds of its
half-educated clientele which can never be
fathomed by reason of its insidiousness and
viscidity.
* * *
Here is an opportunity for the law to
prune a little of that license of the - brutal
press in a direction which would conduce to
the public welfare in a far greater measure
than in the application of effete libel
regulations to some journal which—by speak-
ing the truth in a matter possibly affecting
the real good of the community—is so unfor-
tunate as to come within the meaning of an
obsolete Act for the oppression of news-
papers and the conservation of the assumed
rights of the individual social offender. Why
should these filthy details, in all their
naked brutality, ever see the light of
day under any circumstances whatsoever 1
Indeed, as we have already indicated, they
can do no possible good, and the harm they
inflict upon, society, as it is at present con-
stituted, is almost incalculable. The pro-
hibition of such evidence would not, as is
so often asserted, occasion any miscarriage
of justice, for the records of a trial can
always be consulted by those who question
the matter in a bona fide manner, or they
can be laid upon the table of the House and
become the subject of a Parliamentary inquiry.
We have numerous instances in which
judges presiding at crim. con. trials and
divorce cases have interdicted the publica-
tion of evidence on the ground that it was a
question affecting public morality, and
surely there is room for legal interference in
this matter of preventing the printing of
vicious reports by unscrupulous journals and
the shovelling of nauseous details in all their
disgusting baldness before the nose of the
public, simply in the interests of unalloyed
sordid commercialism ? And if the law be
silent in the matter let the cleaner section of
the community take the affair up and show
their sincerity by boycotting a paper
which first incites to crime and then
invariably stands by the gallows to grease
the rope for Jack Ketch.
« > -
The pendulum of mediocrity and purity
describes but a brief arc in the circle of
human experience. The swing which hurries
the victim from madness to crime—almost
synonymous—courses over a sextant, and
requires but a slight stimulus, too often fur-
nished by a bestial paragraph, to hurry it
beyond the limit of immunity from punish-
ment into another region, where the swing-
ing is done at the end of a halter depending
from the outstretched arm of that latter-day
sign of so-called Christianity—the gibbet.
Unite two chemicals, innocuous in them-
selves, and you have an explosion. The
Evening News, allied to feminine hysteria
or masculine mania, germinates crime. The
paper full of rape-cases or unnatural
offences, forms part of the environment of
the average man. In the case of many men,
and notably those whose circumstances pre-
clude intercourse with higher and nobler
literature, it forms a very important part.
What a horrible fact ! Nearly, if not all
the printed matter a great number of men
peruse is comprised in the reports of out-
rages and assaults upon alleged feminine
virtue, or accounts of blood-curdling incest
and savage bestiality. The News ministers
to the traffic of Moll Flanders and Rox-
ana, but calls loudly for the punishment
of those who fall victims to the “ lady
with the golden hair. ” While that journal
is busy in preparing the mind of Lais for a
fall, and supplying the demands of a com-
merce it affects to denounce, it shirks the
responsibility of castigating the ‘ ‘ respect-
able ” seducer, though at the same time it
instigates the moralists of the Sydney Ex-
change and the Union Club to avenge
wrongs inflicted upon “society” by those
who are. in reality the victims of social
neglect.
° * *
The lecherous journal plays the part of
jackal to Calcraft’s lion—it is the hang-
man’s best and most useful friend. Like
the pendulum, it oscillates continually be-
tween the poles of libidinous suggestion and
bowlings for blood. The News, in par-
ticular, was, in no small degree, responsible
for the hanging of the Mount Rennie
offenders. In the first place, by publishing
or hinting at exaggerated and horrible, if
not utterly false details, calculated to in-
flame all the dormant brutality of unedu-
cated social “ respectability, ” and all the
pruriency of those afflicted with a mental
itch; and secondly, by ferociously demanding
the lives of the miserable youngsters as a
sop to the Cerberus of outraged society.
During the popular excitement incident to
the trial the columns of the News were thrown
open to hysterical and neurotic nymphomani-
acs. They absolutely reeked with villainous
amateur-surgical suggestions of mutilation
and disfigurement, worthier the State records
of Bashibazouks than of a supposedly intelli-
gent organ conducted in an age of
alleged enlightenment. The immediate
effect of such revolting suggestions
upon similarly nervous organisations is
impossible to gauge, and the ultimate effect
upon the aggregate morality of the com-
munity has no ascertainable limit. In
short, the surest way in which to secure the
commission of crime is to take every oppor-
tunity of pointing out the way in
which it may be committed. Society
will continue to be shocked by the
recurrence of gross outrages and nameless
offences just so long as sensational prints are
allowed by the authorities to publish the
evidence connected with such cases. The
only sure way of stamping out a disease is to
attack it in its matrix ; no doctor would
attempt the treatment of small-pox by the
application of an ointment to its surface
symptoms.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. (Shoddy Ring.
The Parkes 'Government has boycotted all
Sydney newspapers which do not support its thrice-
insolvent and “burning brand of shame” com-
bination. It now advertises only in the daily
papers. The daily papers support the Parkes
Government merely because it pays them to do
so. The Bulletin criticises Governments irre-
spective of consequences. The now repealed
5 per cent. New South Wales ad valorem paper
duties used to cost the Sydney daily newspapers
£11,600 annually. Should a Protectionist Govern-
ment come into power in New South Wales and
impose a ten per cent, ad valorem duty on print-
ing paper (that would be the very lowest figure)
with a view to re-opening the local paper-mills,
which the untaxed imported products of starving
European labour have long ago shut up, the
Sydney dailies will have to hand over to the State
at least £23,000 a year out of their colossal profits.
In other words, the Fairfaxes (who make
£BO,OOO a year out of their Sydney papers) and
the Bennetts (who probably make £40,000 a year
out of their hireling rags) and the land-jobbers
and syndicate-men of the Daily Telegraph
(whose profits are an unknown quantity) will col-
lectively be directly £23,000 a year out of pocket
by Protection—this altogether apart from the
fact that a Protectionist Government when it
comes into power one of these days will impose
postage on newspapers, and will thereby rook the
advocates of shoddy to the extent of, say, another
£20,000 a year. The three big Sydney news-
papers are supporting Parses only because
they get out of him, that is to say, out of the tax-
payer, £43,000 a year—which is a noble sum and
well worth fighting for. Of course the pro-
prietaries of these three venal publications
will deny The Bulletin’s impeachment,
and flippantly say that if their printing
paper .be taxed and postage be imposed
they will in both cases “ pass it on” to the public.
But when an excise duty was put on colonial beer
and the big Sydney brewers threatened to “ pass
it on,” the daily papers simply laughed at their
impotence. And it will be no more possible for
the proprietor of the twopenny or penny news-
paper to “ pass it on ” than it was for the brewer
to have the cost of retailed beer increased or flu
size of the glass diminished. Of course the brewer
might have been able to pay the excise by adul-
terating the beer, but this plan is not open to the
papers, for the readers of the Herald would no
more stand any alloy of ungodliness in the Fair
faxes’ snuffling than would the readers of the
Noozk endure any admixture of cleanliness in the
Bennetts’ muck. They may argue that even if
they can’t increase the price of their papers they
can increase the price of their advertisements.
But that argument is also bad, inasmuch as they
even now extort all they can from the public, and
as they fight cut-throat battles, combination or
their part will be impossible. The workman buys
the Sydney penny papers, and, in return, the
penny papers help to rob him of employment.
They import their paper from Germany and shut
up the New South Wales paper-mills. Which is
another of the “moral aspects of Freetrade.”
+
Hie Chancellor’s Plot.
A London writer says of the latest aspect of the
Emperor of Germany’s malady
“ It is very sad and very terrible, and there will every-
where be the deepest sympathy for the illustrious patient
and for his anxious and tortured relatives ; but no good
purpose can be served by keeping up the issue of official
reports specially framed to deceive.”
We waive that part of the “sympathy ” which is
felt because the patient is “illustrious,” to ask
who are the people responsible for “keeping up
the issue of official reports specially framed to de-
ceive”? A London paper has its own explana-
tion, and points by inference to Sir Morell Mac-
kenzie as the “ people responsible,” &c. :
Bismarck and Prince William are known to have
been playing a deep game for some time, which the sud-
denness of the event wholly spoiled. By the famih
statutes of the royal house, a prince afflicted with an in-
curable ailment is incapable of reigning. The youno-
Prince and the Chancellor have long been leagued against
the late Crown Princess, who is thoroughly detested by
the Prussian Court and in military circles' and whom it
was hoped might be shut out by this cause from the Im-
perial dignity. Sir Morell Mackenzie’s inexplicable
position at San Remo, and his sticking to the statement
that the malady is not cancer, against the opinion of the
whole faculty, is thus explained, his persistency having
prevented the statutory declaration being obtained that
would have prevented the Englishwoman becoming
Empress of Germany, thus shelving her in the case of
widowhood as Dowager Crown Princess with a jointure of
£4200 a year. . . . Should her husband die before her
she will now be entitled to all the privileges, emoluments,
and prerogatives of the Imperial state. The new Em-
press is an ambitious, woman who fully realised the
danger of the recent crisis, and, with commendable pluck,
sagacity, and determination, set herself to the dei-perate
task of circumventing her enemies. She has won against
heavy odds, and Englishmen, who pay so smartly for the
honour of the alliances of our royal "house with German
pauper prigs of the Battexberg type, will not grudge her
the honouis of a victory over the money-grubbing Ger-
mans.” i
If, as Reynolds puts it, Bismarck and the young
tyke William schemed to put the famify rule in
operation because the late Crown Princess was re-
garded as an alien, it serves them right to find
themselves badly “ left.” It was a game of cut-
throat euchre, and they lost their king too early
in the play. Had they been enabled to conceal
the late Emperor’s death until an affidavit was pro-
cured declaring the Crown Prince to be afflicted
with a chronic and incapacitating disease,- his wife
would have been the loser. The Emperor dying
and leaving a vacant throne before such a declara-
tion against the next heir had been obtained de-
feats the Chancellor’s purpose, and he, with the
aforesaid tyke, gets the worst’of the play. It may,
however, be all surmise and conjecture.
♦
Gillies’ Grovel.
One of the chief distinctions between man and
the inferior race of animals is generally supposed
to lie in the fact that man, in a great degree,
shapes his own destiny, while the beasts of the
field silently fulfil the destiny which man and cir-
cumstances impose upon them. This theory has
passed muster so long that it seems now to be
placed almost beyond dispute, and accepting it as
the starting-point of our argument the question
arises whether the Imperial groveller who infests
Australia is a human being or not. By the mouth
of Duncan Gillies he says distinctly that he is
not. On behalf' of himself, the other members of
the Victorian Ministry, and the people in general,
that gentleman lowers himself to the level of an
omnibus-horse in these words :
“ It is almost unnecessary to remind your Excellency
that, while these and other British colonies have no direct
voice in the contracting of treaties between the Empire
and foreign Powers, tbey are frequently affected by the
obligations imposed by them ; and it is, therefore, not
unreasonable to expect that, in such cases, efforts should
be made by those on whom the exercise of that power
devolves to watch over and conserve, the rights and in-
terests of the colonies more immediately interested. Mr.
Gillies trusts that in the present matter her Majesty’s
Government will see fit to exercise its influence on behalf
of these portions of the Empire by endeavouring to in-
duce the Government of China to take similar measures
for preventing emigration to Australasia to those under-
stood to have been adopted at the instance of the United
States of America.”
These words form the lame and abject conclusion
of a blind, impotent, and imbecile memorandum
in reply to, the suave despatch of Ambassador
Lew. Mr. Gillies peacefully admits that Aus-
tralia has “no direct voice,” and, in fact, no
voice of any kind, direct or indirect, smothered
or otherwise, in framing or controlling treaties
by which Britain may any day involve her in
ruin, and he considers it no part of his duty to
protest against the continuance of this monstrous
state of things. He never dreams of asserting
that Australians, as human beings, have an in-
alienable right to protect themselves when the
countless millions of the yellow race threaten to
overwhelm them and blot them out. He does not
even venture to imply that he himself, as a man
and not a beast, has any claim to be heard in a
matter which involves the life or death of the
nation which has entrusted its destinies to his
quivering hands ; his one idea is that “ Her
Majesty’s Government may see fit ” to bow down
before an Asiatic heathen and ask him to be
pleased to refrain from shipping his myriads
of lepers to a land which lacks' the
spirit to protect itself from this imported
corruption. If Her Majesty’s Government
finds that it will not pay England to “ see fit ” to
move in the matter, or if the squat Manchoorian
potentate declines to listen to their appeal, the


affair, as far as Ah Gillies is concerned, will ev
dently be at an end. This is the culminatin
point of human abasement; there is no furth
depth of ignominy to which anything wearing
white waistcoat and the outward semblance of
Scotchman can descend. From the high place
which an infatuated people has raised him Gillie
calmly picking his teeth at the door of the Ath
nseum Club, views the nation being slowly eate
up by imported vice and leprosy, and by all kinc
of moral and physical uncleanness from tl
Flowery Land ; and his remedy for these accum
lating horrors is to ask somebody 16,000 mil
away if he will see fit to ask somebody else wl
profits by all this misery to be pleased to do som
thing. And verily the groveller gets Ids rewarc
by submarine cable. Only a few days have passer
since the pathetic appeal of the trodden-on wor
was flashed across the sea, and already the answ
comes back in the shape of this message
“ The cable dispatches which have been received fro
the Australian colonies on the Chinese question have i
ceived the attention of Lord Knutskord, the Secretary
State for the Colonies, but he is not disposed to underta
the task of negotiating a treaty with China to secure t
exclusion of the Chinese from Australia.
Gillies and Griffith and the other sons of th
Anak of servility to whom Australia has entrustec
her destinies have given away at once and for eve
their claim to take any action on their own b
half—and this is all they receive in return for the
abject surrender. The miserable Scotchman anc
the equally miserable Welshman both defined th
question of the expulsion of the Chinese from
Australia as lying entirely between the Britis
Government and the supreme leper at Pekin
they both virtually pledged themselves to subm
to the decision of these two wolves the ultimat
fate of the prey which both the wolves wer
equally bent on devouring ; they neither venturer
to convey the smallest hint that Australia re
served the right to take action in her ow
defence to save herself from the hopeles
ruin which follows in the track of th
yellow pestilence ; and having thus placet
their fate in the hands of England, they learn tha
England is “indisposed” to save them, and tha
they have surrendered—as far as two groveller
could surrender it by cablegram—the right to sax
themselves. Even the Hottentot or the Bosjesma
claims the right to protect himself from foreig
aggression; so does the servile Hindoo and th
Chinaman himself; so, in short, does all the wor]
except the Australian Imperial pariah, wh
stands forth in bold relief as the one man on eart
who claims no rights and possesses no semblance o
manly dignity, and who does not know whether h
is a man or only one of the lower members of crea
tion. And the outer world, as it views his increa
ing abjectness, becomes more and more inclined t
share his doubts upon this point. The sight of
white Australian bowing down before an Imperia
leper and asking mercy at his hands is sufficien
in itself to amaze a gaping world; but when th
same Australian has sunk too low to do his ow
abasement, and must needs appeal to an Englis
Tory to bow to the leper on his account, the spec
tacle is absolutely unique in its picturesque degra
dation. And the contemptuous message of th
English Tory that he is ‘ ‘ indisposed ” to take an
interest in this whole-souled grovel lends a finis
to the picture which cannot be surpassed.
♦
His Grace the Duke.
As a writer of obituary-notices for the fine ole
English nobility, the London correspondent of th
Sydney Morning Herald certainly wears th
belt. Hear him on the late Duke of Rutlani
and “if you have tears prepare to shed thei
now ” :
“The death of the Duke of Rutland removes one of th
grand figures of the old nobility ; but it is replaced b
another, for Lord John Manners, who succeeds to th
dukedom, will be as good a representative of our feuda
aristocracy as his brother. ... At Belvoir Castle, th
family seat in Rutlandshire, the Duke lived in a princel
state, which was, on one occasion, made the subject
allusion by Mr. Gladstone in the House of Commons
The beautiful grounds of the castle were always open t
the public, and the Duke, who was fond of walking abou
them himself, used to cause it to be understood that h
desired no one to move out of the way in any manner hi
cause of his presence.”
Read it again, and ponder over it. The grea
Duke ! The proud possessor of an income o
£lOO,OOO, of lordly palaces and princely grounds
On one occasion made the subject of allusion by
Mr. Gladstone in the House of Commons'
“Was fond of walking about his own grounds
and used to cause it to be understood that he de
sired no one to move out of the way in any man
ner because of his presence /” The Eveninc
News, another Sydney paper, has its own little
yarn about the Duke of Rutland, and as a re
hukerof vice in high places the way it “lays’
for the Herald carries with it tidings of comfor
and joy:—
“ There is a passage in the London letter of our senioi
morning contemporary’s issue of yesterday, which for
mingling of respectable hypocrisy and tuft-hunting snob
bery has never yet been approached, and will prohablj
never be matched. The London correspondent of the
Herald tells a story of an early passage in the life of the
late Duke of Rutland. He says that many
the Duke formed an attachment for a lady of verT in-
ferior social rank, though his regard for ‘ the exigencies of
his exalted station ’ prevented him marrying her. Now,
if the correspondent had only stopped there, the story,
even briefly as he puts it, would form a very tendei
romance of love sacrificed to a sense of duty. But the
correspondent did not stop there. He went, on to say,
still in evident admiration of the Duke’s self-abnegation
in not marrying the lady of very inferior social rank, ‘ but
he had a numerous family by her.’ And lie further
tells us that he severely crippled the ancestral es-
tates in order to provide for this numerous family.
And all this is told with no symptom of repro-
bation for the Duke, but with an evident and syco-
phantic admiration for his realisation of ‘ the exigencies
of his exalted station,’ which prevented his marrying a
lady socially inferior to him, hut did not prevent his
having a numerous family by her, or robbing the legiti-
mate heirs of his estates in order to support that family.
It is impossible to find words in which to fittingly
characterise this exquisitely callous description of con-
duct on the part of a duke, which, if it ' had only been
that of some common and ordinary person, would have
furnished the Herald with material for a snuffling leader
on the immorality of the poor and ignoble, and would have
enabled its favourite preachers to improve the occasion
from their respective pulpits. It is evident, however,
that what is baseness and bad morals in the common run
of men, is, with the Herald, only ‘ regard for the exigen-
cies of exalted station ’ when a duke is concerned. The
duke makes all the difference.”
“ The duke makes all the difference.” That is so !
The axiom of either the S.M. Herald or the
Evening News is that to be “accredited” is to be
unimpugnable. Respectability can dispense witli
morals and a black frock-coat is God made visible to
men. An apology for the practical blackguardism
of the Duke of Rutland (or that which would pass
as such were the duke a butcher-boy) sounds well on
the lips of the S.M. Herald, the same organ that
hanged the miserable victims—of social apathy
and social vice—concerned in the Mount Rennie
tragedy, and a rebuke from the Noose on the
grounds of morality, the paper that stood by and
greased the hangman’s rope, is alike edifying and
instructive, and is valuable evidence of the inti-
mate connection between a Colin Campbell divorce
case report and conjugal fidelity, or a narrative of
the social sins of a Dilke and chaste and anehori-
tish purity.
The Case of Veitch.
James Yeitch, manager of a mine at Burkina bah,
near Nyngan, N.S. Wales, described in the daily
press as “a native of Scotland, and a sober, im-
dustrious, intelligent man, ” has been found guilty
of the manslaughter of a miner nanled Snow, and
sentenced to six months’ imprisonment with hard
labour. The case has parallel bearings with the
slaughter of the Bulli miners to the number of
eighty, although in the grander and wholesale
holocaust justice was stifled and the offenders
escaped. From the evidence adduc'd it appears
that the mine was reported upon by Mr. W. H. J.
SI.EE, inspector of mines, as being in certain points
defective and unsafe, and Yeitcii was informed that
these defects would have to be remedied at once.
He was again warned about his mine ten months
after the previous intimation as to the dangerous-
ness of its condition; but he still took no notice.
In the month following, James Snow was instructed
to go down the shaft and sharpen some drills about
30ft. below some stulling, or staging, consisting
of logs 14in. in diameter and about Oft. apart from
each other, with strong saplings across (some of
the logs being hollow or piped) to protect the
tramway —as well as the men working below the
stages—from falling rock which might become
detached from the walls of the mine. After
Snow (the deceased) had passed through the stag-
ing, and the manhole of the staging had been duly
covered up, the manager, James Yeitch, pro-
ceeded with a crowbar to loosen a large mass of
rock in which several shots had previously been
fired, thereby displacing from four to five tons,
which fell from a height of 25ft. on to the staging.
The latter broke, and m falling, struck the deceased
and threw him on his back into the fire of the forge
—to which he was pinned by a sapling and held
down until he was almost roasted. Although the
forge was 20ft. below the broken staging and 12ft. in
a level or drive, deceased was severely burned and
through this and other injuries died in Wellington
Hospital. The local police at once took proceed-
ings against Yeitch, as manager of the mine,
and through the intelligent and efficient manner
in which the case was got up the latter was com-
mitted for trial. The judge who tried the case
informed the jury in his summing-up that mine-
owners and mining-managers were criminally
liable for culpability or negligence. He said that
human life must be protected. Mining-managers
when taking the management of a mine must take
also the responsibility of the safe-guarding of
human life in connection with their managerial
trust. We have nothing to say against this,
but why, we ask, were criminal proceedings
not instituted against the Bulli Coal Mining
Company, by the neglect of whose re-
responsible officers eighty men and boys
were sent to a hideous death? Why should it
always be so easy to obtain justice when the
offender is not fenced round by the privileges of
wealth and position ? This conviction against
James Veitch is the first of the kind that has
taken place in New South Wales; but why is it
the first ? Is James Veitch’s act of criminal
neglect the first of the kind that has taken place
in New South Wales ? If the offender be rich,
well-connected, and socially placed, it simply
becomes impossible to get him arraigned, but
society never fails in securing the conviction
of men of the James Yeitch type, simply
because they have not friends powerful enough
or money sufficient to fight for them. Mr.
James Veitch, patronismgly described in
several of the newspapers as a “sober, indus-
trious intelligent man ” —meaning thereby that
he is not what is popularly called a “ gentleman ”
—is punished, while the directors of the big syndi-
cate go free. This is the social creed throughout:
kick him hardest who has no friends ! .1 ustice
is not blind in Australia ; but she suffers from
cataract when her eyes alieht on a frock-coat!
/
The Fate of Xiggcr Drnilt.
The E. News unchained its moralist from the
backyard last Saturday, and grasping his pen lie
wrote :
“ A case of a horrible nature was tried before Chie
Justice Sir F. M. Barley, at Wagga Circuit Court yester
day. It was a case in which an Australian black named
Druitt, belonging to the camp of aboriginals at Naran
dera, was charged with having committed a capita
offence on a child under 3% years of age. . The
case was clearly proved. The prisoner did not exhibit the
slightest sign of emotion during the hearing of the case
The jury returned a verdict of guilty of the capita
offence. The prisoner, to whom counsel was assigned
did not make any address to the Judge, and was sentencec
to death, the J udge commenting on the enormity of the
crime briefly.
It is only one more wretched nigger being wiped
out and nobody cares a hang - . What The Bul-
letin wishes to ask,- however, is this—will the
Government of JNew South Wales dare to carry
out the sentence in view of the disgraceful way iii
which a case of a somewhat similar nature was
smothered in the courts of the same colony not
many months ago ? In that instance the alleged
criminal was closely related to a distinguished
Judge, and on the second day of the trial the
prosecutrix got into the box and stated
that she had had “ a conversation ” with
the prisoner’s wife, and wished to withdraw the
charge. Ordinary citizens, who were not blessed
with judicial minds, assumed this to mean that
the prisoner’s wife had' had a conversation with
the witness, or, in other words, that the latter
had been tampered with and induced to aid in de-
feating the ends of justice, and many even went
so far as to regard this as tantamount to an ad-
mission of guilt. Had the prisoner been innocent,
they argued, he would have preferred to demon-
strate his innocence and to crush the perjured ad-
venturess who had endeavoured to bring about his
utter ruin, rather than stop the case wheji the vile
charges brought against him had been proclaimed
to the world, and his defence, if he had any de~
fence to offer, remained unheard. The police, how-
ever, raised no objection (as they would probably
have done in any other case), and an astounding
compromise brought the case to a sudden and
impotent conclusion. Meanwhile, nigger Druitt
of Wagga, is going to be hanged. He wasn’t
related to any judge, and the witnesses in his
case didn’t have a conversation with his gin and
then suddenly and mysteriously back out. And
even if they had conversed with Diiuitt's partner
m life the results wouldn’t have been likely to
amount to much. The plain daughter of a decay-
ing race would probably have offered to “ gib it
bacca,” provided her husband was let off, and
Gob knows that argument doesn’t amount to
much in staying the fiery course of Justice, when
the blind goddess is out in search of vengeance,
The worthy body -of men who drive and stoke
engines on the Victorian railways are vaguely
threatening to run them into the sheds and strike
work, all because they can't bear a Mr. Alison
Smith. Said Smith has no power over the men,
except in the matter of making it warm for them
if they leave undone the things they ought to
have done, &c. He can’t reduce their wages,
lengthen their hours of work, or make them
exceed their contract with the Government in one
small particular. But the Victorian Railways
were a hotbed of jobbery, labour-shirking, and
insubordination for so many years that the Civil
Service taint still lingers about the employes,
sturdy engine-drivers not excepted. Their
repeated meetings to protest against some-
thing or other done by Mr. Smith are
getting nauseating, and awaken not the least
public sympathy. There is no political influence
at the back of this particular Smith. If he goes
beyond his duty, or falls short of it, he will pre-
sumably lx* ‘‘ sacked by the Commissioners,
who are the parti-s chiefly interested in keeping
everybody up to his respective mark. Meanwhile,
1. a lot of fairly-paid men contemplate exercising
a temporary power of “ bringing commerce to a
standstill ” all along of one Smith, they had
better consider the matter seriously. Trades-
unionism has its duties as well as its rights, and
petty annoyances are not to be confounded with
wrongs. Why, in New _ South Wales, there is
also a Smith who nominally superintends the
State locomotive. But the Walers don’t hold a
meeting every time we feel annoyed with their
Smith.
A letter, written by a New Zealander on his
travels, and dated from Portree, Isle of Skye, ap-
pears in a recent issue of a Wellington (N.Z.)'paper.
It states that a movement ispn foot for the pur-
pose of founding a colony of Scotch Crofters in
South-east Russia. The Czar is said to be favour-
able to the scheme, and a young Scotchman named
Murdoch M ‘Donald, who has made his fortune
m Russia, is anxious to secure several hundred
Crofter families to take up land on his estate in
that country. The Crofters do not wish to leave
their native land, but if they have to go they say
they will prefer Russia to Manitoba. God save
the Queen ! What a leaven for future Russian
armies! When the Czar catches a clever
foreigner who promises to be useful, he makes a
Russian noble of him, and adds “off ” or “sky”
to his name. Murdoch M ‘Donald we shall one
day hear of as M’Donaldoff— or, possibly, as
M ‘Donaldoffskye. hinder all the circumstances,
we don’t much wonder at all the M ‘Donalds
being “off ’’—from Scotland.
London Figaro (which is by no means a beastly
Radical organ) publishes this story about Lord
Charles Beresford, the Prince of Wales’
friend
“ It is said by the old comrades of Lord Charles Beres-
7'Ord that he is ‘ a tough ’un.’ Here is a story about him
which, if true, goes far to justify the conclusion. It is
said that when he was in command of the police at Aba-
media, Egypt, every morning a lot of poor creatures,
whom the police had arrested, used to he brought before
him. He’d come out smoking a cigarette, with a brio-lit,
cheery face and devil-may-care look. A wretched, half-
starved, half-naked native would be dragged up. < What
has he been doing-?’ asked Lord Charles. ‘ Lootino- thej
shops.’ _ ‘Shoot him.’ The poor fellow began whining,
and crying, and pleading. ‘ Next!’ Lord Charles calls,
and away goes the man. Another native is hauled up by
the collar, struggling and howling. ‘ What ?’ 1 Resistin'*-
the police.’ ‘ Shoot him.’ And so on until a dozen oi
twenty fates were sealed by this young judge, from whose
decision there was no appeal. His cigarette finished, he
went in to breakfast, his appetite being quite undisturbed
by the volleys which presently greeted his ears.'’
We have heard the cheery “ Shoot him !” some-
where else, and not so long ago, from the lips of
another friend of the Prince of Wales. Only it
wasn t “ Shoot him ! It was “ Hang them /”
*
Mb. See, M.P., the other night quoted the re-
vised New South Wales Government railway
rates to show that 20 per cent, extra will in future
be added on bran, flour, and grain when carried
on the down-journey from shipping ports. This
is more than the most rabid Protectionist would
; for by it the inland producer is not only
Protected against foreign producers, but he is also
protected against all farmers who do not live on
his line. A Grafton farmer would have to pay
the extra duty if he wished to send his maize, <fcc.
to Bathurst,_ because it would have to go via
Sydney, a shipping port. The inland farmers, by
this decision, are only pr'ima facie protected in
their own small local markets, but the Sydney
port is still open to be swamped by the pro-
duce of every foreign farmer in the world. A
Ministry selected from the inmates of Gladesville
Lunatic Asylum would blow out the remnant of
their brains with a bow and arrow before they
would be guilty of such crass stupidity.
+
Mr. E. M. Curb, of the Melbourne Civil Service,
has been writing an account of the aborigines,
and this is what the Saturday Review says on
the subject :
The Spaniards in the \\ est Indies, the Americans
among the Red Men did nothing worse, few things as bad
as what we are doing every day, by Mr. Curr’s account,’
m Queensland
“‘The massacre concluded, the English officer gives
over the women to his “ boys,” as he
calls the troopers. .. To prevent such proceedings
attracting the attention of the Supreme Court, no white
man except the officer in charge accompanies the troopers
save in rare instances. . . . The evidence of a Black
is not admissible in our courts.’
“ Such is English civilisation in Queensland.”
This picture is now perhaps*—we say perhaps— a
little out of date. Starving men, women, and
children, however, turned out to perish in the
pitiless winter aren’t out of date by any means as
the Sabbath Screecher knows well." For such
is English civilisation—in Ireland !
A Belgian gentleman lias paid £5OOO for
the celebrated “ Man resting on the Hoe.” A
portrait of Parkes, probably—a man resting on
the owe.
The father of Baronet Clarke cherished a
deadly antipathy for tea-cups, and would have
none of those effeminate drinking vessels on liis
stations. At the obscure Melbourne pubs, where
he usually put up, tea-cups were hidden from his
sight, for if he saw one he went for it like a bull
at a red rag. Old Clarke stuck to a pannikin,
and son William prefers a golden goblet. Evolu-
tion of species.
A lady offered four prizes of £4O each for
medical lady students at Melbourne University,
on condition that ox-state school scholars should
not be eligible to. compete. The University
Council would have liked to set up the class dis-
tinction but simply dared not. ,So the offer
was declined with thanks, and the high-toned
female must spend her £1(50 on some other branch
of general philanthropy. A botany scholarship,
for girls who have never worn a last season's hat,
would fill a long felt want. Apropos the Argus
is naturally indignant that this lady’s offer
was refused, and says “ such limitations exist in
the home country, without in the least degree
impairing the national character of the univer-
sities. ’ Perhaps the Argus will instance a
university scholarship which is specially closed
against students who have attended an ' English
board-school. Or-a board-school scholar who lias
ever attended a University.
BRIEF MENTION,
Penny-a-liner—Penny maligner.
There is an Orange Lodge on board H.M S.
-Nelson.
Joseph Tite has been sent to gaol A
tite place. &
Legislative Assembly Blackleg-islative
Assembly. °
r< u a^l O' e in the yarn trade—l. Reginald
Cohen, Esq.
I ncle Abigail says he ‘ ‘ has been faithful
to his pledges. ’’
Mrs. Scott died in a lit of jiassion, at Sale
(V ic.), last week. Great Scott!
, r Michael Stout advertises his wedding in
Melbourne Age. Doublin’ Stout.
“ Refractory ore ” is the stuff that refuses
to yield dividends to shareholders.
Bussellton, in Western Australia, probably
derives its name from the extent of its outskirts.
Darwin says that we descended from
monkeys, but as a matter of fact we’re Groins? back
on ’em. °
Duncan Gillies says that the public man’s
mission is a noble one. Yes, Duncan, but the
publican s is nobbier.
Chinese laundry.men are doing bio 1 busi-
ness in Melbourne. The Chow is coming to the
front—the shirt-front.
The N.S.W. Speaker says he is afraid of
M Elhone, M.P., catching his eye. He probably
doesn t want to get it blackened.
There is an ass in the North Melbourne
pound which has worried two men to death,
x arkes has a big’g’er record.
Horsetralia ’ isn’t a vulgarism. It’s
only a subtle sarcasm on the mob who bow down
before beasts that chew oats.
The manager of a battery at Ballarat has
been badly injured by sitting on a hot retort,
this is not the retort courteous. .
A Chinaman advertises in a Ballarat paper
for a lost pig. We suppose the pig was disgusted
with the company he had to keep, and skipped.
A Chinaman was caught stealing wash
from a femeaton (Vic.) mine. He swore it was
the only wash he ever took, and they believed
him.
A keg of rum exploded at Wallsend
IA-S1 A-S.W.) the other day. It wrecked a room,
killed one man, and wounded others. Strong
drink.
I here is a Chinese druggist in Melbourne
named Tuk Wing. Chows usually take the whole*
fowl, but when they take wing they are most
popular.
A traveller who recently traversed some of
the sandy wastes of West Australia says it is the
best country he ever saw—for going through an
hour-glass.
At a dispute in a Melbourne teetotal
lodge, last week, one brother broke another
brother’s nose. Even the never-toucli-its can’t
help tapping the claret.
A Chinese hawker at Eudunda (S.A.) has
been fined for not having his name written on his
baskets. The absurdity of this regulation is patent.
The Chinkie’s name was John.
At Melbourne City Court. “Is she
known ? ” enquired the Bench. “ Well, ” said the
sergeant, “she's exhausted all the letters in the
alphabet in changing her names. ”
The Sydney Corporation official, his work :
—“Examined, A. 8.; checked, B.C. ; correct,
O.D. ; audited, IXE. ; all right, E.F. ;o.k. G.H.”
“A d d swindle,” say the public.
A mixture has been compounded which
will prevent white ants from destroying houses
We are sorry. We thought the white ant might
some day destroy the N.S.W. House of Assembly.
A station near Hay (N.S.W.), owned by a
man with a Scotch name, has a Chinese overseer,
and most of the hands employed on the station
are Chinamen. Last year the owner summoned
some of his shearers because they would not shear
with the Chows.
A lot lias been said about machinery doing
the work of human beings. There is a little boy
who lives in Tarcutta (N.S.W.)who couldn’t do
the work of a finger-post. His name is Billy.
A man was once riding through the place, and lie
was in doubt as to which road to take. Hailino-
this little boy, he said : “ Billy, which is the road
to Wagga ?/’ How did you know my name was
Billy? asked the .young colonial. “‘Guessed it,
my boy.’’ “ Well, guess your - way to
Wagga!
The Sydney Freetrade party are not going
to be beaten if enterprise will do them any good”:
“ Man, 37, strayed from home, Carlton, last Tuesday
grey trousers, dark coat, weak intellect.” ' ’
This advertisement appeared in Melbourne Age
Parkes enticed that man from his home. Parked
is keeping him chained up somewhere, and loading
him to the ears with Freetrade dogmas and hunks
of “ The Beauteous Terrorist.” And when he
will hold no more, Parkes will unchain him and
send him out whooping and foaming at the mouth
to further desolate this miserable land. Let the
friends of that unhappy man take notice of what
we say, and if Parkes denies that he knows
anything about the matter hiss this into his ear—-
“ Where did you get your supporters in Parlia-
ment ? ” They will then see him turn green under
his hair. Follow up quickly with “Dark and
fearful old party {vide W. M. Reynolds in his ad-
dresses to magicians sold to Satan) “ how many
homes hast thou made houses of mourning
for coves a bit off their kadoovas? Think and
tremble ! ” We are much mistaken, if taken by
surprise in this manner, the Wild-maned Ogie
will not disclose such terrible facts as will send a
shudder through the spine of Australia from York
to Schank. Where are the unfortunate escapees
from idiot asylums who vanish one day and are
found no more? Where the persons of feeble
intellect “ with grey trousers and dark coat ” mis-
sing from home and given up by their friends as
drowned or dead in some way ? in the Legislative
Assembly and elsewhere, dear brothers, supporters
of the Ogre-magician Parkes. But the hour of
twelve (midnight) will strike for him even, sooner
or later, and then with a “ Lent?, lente currite
nodes eqne, ’’and howling and smelling of brimstone
J’ austus Parkes will disappear for ever from human
sight with the gentleman in a red cloak and cock's
feathers in his cap. Pray for him of your charity
Christian souls, for he too was young and had
something not unlike the appearance’of a cr ...
cience once.


BISTORT Of BOTAHy BAY.
Macquarie went home, as was said, with
the benedictions of the poor in his ears.
There is a slanderous and blackguardly book,
published by Major Mudie —who was very
properly horsewhipped in Sydney for his
literary larrikinism —and known as the
“Felonry of New South Wales, ’ in which
the case as between Macquarie and Commis-
sioner Bigge is squarely put ; and it must be
owned that Mudie, whom we will tie up to
the triangles when his turn comes, was not
prejudiced in favour of Macquarie’s work.
“Mr. Commissioner Bigge,” says this red-
handed Witness, “busied himself, as is well
known, infinitely more in pointing out and
sanctioning trumped-up charges against the
Governor, than in ascertaining the actual
condition of the colony, which was his mis-
sion. He took every uncandid and unfair
advantage ; while the vipers and unprinci-
pled men . . . filled the ear of the com-
missioner with everything that slander could
invent or misrepresentation fashion into im-
putation upon the venerable representative
of their sovereign. The commission, there-
fore, instead of being an enquiry into the
state of the colony, was engaged in getting
hold of everything that could in any way
degrade or affect the good name of the
Governor.” So much for Mr. Bigge. Mac-
quarie’s death was attributed, by those who
knew him best, to the effect of the Botany
Bay calumnies with which he had been pur-
sued. Sir Charles Forbes, Bart., a man of
public virtue and private benevolence, pro-
nounced his eulogium in the House of Com-
mons, and his intimate knowledge of Indian
and colonial affairs Was understood to give
the weight of authoritative decision to his
high opinion of Governor Macquarie’s official
conduct.
*. » *
“So many disgraceful things have oc-
curred with regard to New South Wales,”
says this sensitive candidate for the public
horsewhipping he afterwards received, “that
it is absolutely painful to record them ! ”
And then he goes on to tell the old story
about the appointment of the first Arch-
deacon of New South Wales. Mr. Bigge had
taken out to Botany Bay as his clerk, a per-
son named Scott, who had failed in London
as a wine-merchant. This Scott was active
in collecting charges against Macquarie from
the Pure Merinos, and “ the clerk,” we are
told, “ could condescend to practices from
which the dignity of the commissioners must
have shrunk.” There were few rat-holes
into which this ferret could not enter, and
his employers were not ungrateful. An ap-
pointment was asked for him. There was
none vacant. But that was a small difficulty
while it was possible to make one. So Earl
Bathurst was persuaded to nominate Mr.
Scott, the bankrupt wine-merchant, as Arch-
deacon of New South Wales at an apostolic
salary of £2OOO per annum. Concerning
whom there is told a certain frivolous story.
Now, in those days, the editor and pro-
prietor of one of the Sydney newspapers was,
strangely enough, a pew-renter in the Arch-
deacon’s Church of St. James, in Sj dney.
He was moved of the Evil One to offer
certain cynical observations in his paper re-
specting the new Archdeacon ; and the
wisdom of the serpent in that reverend if
somewhat vinous person prompted him to
retaliate and scoop the offender’s pew. The
editor was served with a notice to take pos-
session of another pew “in a cold and com-
fortless part of the church.” He objected,
and was told that police constables would
be placed to keep the pew against all comers,
and any trespassers would be forthwith
ejected from the house of prayer. Now,
the editor was the proud and happy pro-
genitor of no less than six large daughters ;
and every Sunday he made a descent in force
on the disputed dew, which had been locked
by the vinous Archdeacon and the name-plate
torn off, only to be repulsed by the constables
with their staves. At first the newspaper-man
contented himself with standing in the aisle,
in mute protest, while ‘ ‘ the delicate females
his daughters’ sat on the cold stone steps of
the altar-piece.” It must be confessed that
these proceedings lent an agreeable attrac-
tiveness to the church service ; and we
learn that every Sunday the building was
crowded by congregations that the Arch-
deacon’s eloquence failed to attract, who
trooped in to see the pantomime. It is to
be remembered that there were fewer
theatrical performances in those days than
now. But standing in the aisle soon proved
as tame and spiritless a course of conduct
for the father as sitting on the cold stone
steps, even of an altar-piece, was to
his daughters. So he excogitated a new
development, and every now and then,
when the proud Archdeacon wasn’t look-
ing, the newspaper man would swoop down on
one of his fair progeny, and, amid a whirl
of white drapery and a flutter as of apoca-
lyptic wings, the young lady would perform a
thrilling acrobatic feat with her parent’s as-
sistance, and land with more or less elegance
though always with considerable spirit on
the inside of the pew. The congregation
liked that. But the proud Archdeacon in
his scarlet pride thought this was running
the authorised performance rather close—
there were no choirs of surpliced ladies
than !—-so he had the pew decked over with
boards, held down with bars and screws to
defeat the newspaper man. That stopped
him. So he took the case into court, seeing
{.fiat it wap lively to afford no more whole-
some fun, and wrung the Archdeacon’s
bosom by obtaining damages for illegal
ejection from his pew. Mr. Scott went
home then, and his spirited apostolate came
abruptly to a close.
* * *
The rule of Sir Thomas Brisbane, K.C.8.,
began on December 1, 1821. He was a
Scotchman, and acute. He saw that Mac-
quarie made unnecessary trouble for himself
by his conscientiousness, so he determined
to let Botany Bay have its own way. He
built an observatory at Parramatta, there-
fore, and occupied himself in keeping a
strict eye on the movements of Venus and
Jupiter. While he followed the stars in
their courses through a narrow tube the
Pure Merinos took everything into their own
hands more completely than ever. The
old trading monopolies grew up again,
and the old atrocities, and the old squalor.
Convicts shrieked under the cat again, and
dangled on gibbets as of old ; the settlers
were exploited and robbed on the old sys-
tem, and all the miseries of the “ rum era ”
were renewed once more. And still Go-
vernor Brisbane, in his eyrie at Parramatta,
complacently surveyed the stars.
* *
Fr'e'e immigration began to set in ih larger
numbers now than ever before, and as most
of those who came brought some little money
with them, they are usually described as
being of a better class than those who reached
Botany Bay up to this time. If a new
“HE WAS A SCOTCHMAN, AND ACUTE. HE BUILT AN OBSERVATORY AT PARRAMATTA.”
arrival could prove to the Governor his
ability to maintain five convicts for a fixed
number of years, and was prepared to enter
into a bond to that effect, he received a grant
of 500 acres of land, with a breeding cow
to each convict. For ten convict ser-
vants he received 1000 acres and ten
cows ; and so on. From this dates
the real beginning of the convict as-
signment system, though, of course, convict
servants had been assigned out more or less
from the first days of the settlement. The
demand for convict labour became so great
that “ though great multitudes were an-
nually transported from England, numbers
of free immigrants had to wait, with great
inconvenience, for convict servants with
whose labour to cultivate their lands.”
# # *
It is needless to explain at this late hour
of the day that convict service was in reality
a kind of white slavery, intensified by
all the most degrading and repulsive
features of negro slavery, but also with some
superadded horrors of its own. On their
arrival, the convicts were first drafted off
into the convicts’ depot at Hyde Park.
There applications were attended to, and
jyhite labour portioned off among the appli-
ants in their due proportions. Major
Goulburn was the Governor’s Grand Vizier
in those days, and the centre of the iniqui-
tous system at whose heart lie sat like some
ill-omened spidor in its web, disposing of the
souls and bodies of convict men and women
just as he disposed of the Government
cattle and sheep. The “ impenetrable
Major,” they called him in those days,
and it can easily be imagined what an
object of awe this all-powerful official was
to the men and women whose lives lay at the
mercy of his slightest sign. His was an iron
rule. The colony was a prison, he said, and
the prisoners were to be treated accordingly.
So they were. The Major was head turn-
key, and all the duties of Custom-house
officer, treasurer, and collector of revenue
were discharged by him. He grew so
despotic and so irresponsible at last, that,
like all men who have been entrusted
with powers which prove too much
for them, he forgot his duty to his
head-gaoler, the Governor, and wanted to
dictate to him, too. The home Government
recalled both of them, and the house of cards
the “impenetrable major” had built fell
about his ears in a moment. It is quite in-
teresting to see these all-powerful Botany
Bay potentates knocked over like nine-pins
by the merest breath of Imperial authority.
Judges, governors, gaolers, even the floggers
and hangmen themselves had to grovel
piteously when the Colonial Office spoke.
And so Major Goulburn went home, to spend
his old age in bitterly remorseful memories
of Botany Bay ; and this story knows him
Ho more.
* * •
The Assignment system was actually com-
menced by Hunter, and lasted up to 1838.
It will be remembered that Phillip once
wrote of the Botany Bay settlement, that
‘ ‘ there can be no slavery in a free land, and
consequently no slaves.” These fine words
fell signally to the ground. From the
moment the assignment system was intro-
duced until the despatch was received for
its discontinuance, a form of slavery more
degrading than any Assyria or Louisiana ever
knew —more disgraceful than negro slavery
as the white man is above the black
—held its unbridled course in New South
Wales. It is startling to think that
it is not yet fifty years horrors
passed away, and that some of the persons
responsible for their existence still exercise
legislative power under the free institutions
of to-day. The convict was in the hands of
the official, body and soul. This state of
things generated a condition of cringing
servitude on the one side, and on the other
a class sentiment of authority and assertion
of superiority, both of which still strongly
survive, though the conditions that produced
them have long since passed away. So long
as a single official, trained and formed under
the old Imperial system, continues in the
service of the country, and so long as the
traditions of that system cling, so long will
these squalid traces continue to be apparent.
* • *
Nearly every large holder of assigned con-
vict servants was a magistrate. A flogger
was part of each magistrate’s retinue, and
th» triangles were * common feature In
every well-regulated homestead. Neighbour-
ing employers honoured each other’s notes
of hand by administering a flogging to the
bearer ; and often a worthy magistrate, in the
cool shadow of his spacious verandah, dined
pleasantly with his wife and daughters to the
music of a yelling wretch triced up to the
torture at an easy distance away.
In the book Lang imaginatively called his
history there is a description of the way the
system worked, illustrated by examples.
He takes the common case of an emigrant
settler—it is to be remembered that Lang
was an eye-witness of all these things —who
returns to his farm after an absence of some
weeks idling about the country, and. finds
that his servants have been idle in his
absence. He curses and swears at them
until a man who has seen better days for-
gets himself so far as to reply to his ruffianly
master. The convict is at once haled before
the next magistrate, who orders the delin-
quent to receive 25 lashes or more. As
soon as the man is fit for labour he is
put to the plough, which he takes the
opportunity, perhaps, to break on a
stump. He is sent to the chain-gang for a
term, and when that is over he escapes to
the bush, perhaps murdering his tyrant, or
setting fire to his homestead. It was so that
bushrangers were manufactured, Lang adds
that the escapees perhaps rob a settler’s cart
for food a few days after their escape, are
captured, and hanged as a matter of course.
And, speaking of his own solemn experience
as a clergyman in these cases, he further
adds that the ‘ ‘ wretched men assure the
minister who may visit them in gaol or
attend them on the scaffold, that it was the
arbitrary and unfeeling conduct of their
masters alone that brought them to an
untimely end.”
The Mesmerist’s “Subject.”
Young Jimmy Griff he roamed around
With scarce a coat to call his own,
His mortal sole was on the ground,
A creature he of skin and bone;
On doorsteps Jimmy used to doss
From midnight until breezy morn,
But patiently he bore his cross
And spoke of work with honest scorn.
At last the garment on his back
Together would no longer hold —
Misfortune’s clouds seemed thick and black,
For now the nights were growing cold ;
And Jimmy, as he skulked along,
The feelings of his heart avowed
In language that was terse and strong —
Emphatic, picturesque, and loud.
The merry birds gay carols sang
(Their notes were silv’ry, sweet, and clear),
But Jimmy, gnawed by hunger’s pang,
Those melodies declined to hear;
And creeping on with aching head,
And stomach tortured by a “ twist ”
Outside a playhouse door he read,
“Professor Brass, the Mesmerist.”
“O ! joy,” enraptured Jimmy cried,
“ Fair prospects open to my view—
I guess I’ll get a job inside ”
(His way about young Jimmy knew);
** I’ve met a cove wot used to earn
Good money on the ‘ subject lay ’;
He said there wasn’t much to learn,
And mesmerists’ is tidy pay.”
.
Professor Brass our hero saw,
And led him to a private room
(Just here the curtain we will draw,
And shroud that interview in gloom);
Enough, that Jimmy stood the test —
He didn’t heed a needle’s prick,
Cold tallow he consumed with zest,
And onions couldn’t turn him sick.
He went to sleep and never stirred
A muscle (wily Jimmy Griff)
Until the wizard gave the word
And then he grew uncommon stiff;
He sang a rousing comic song,
And danced with vigour quite intense—
These frolics being all along
Of yielding to the “ influence,”
Young Jimmy Griff he roamed around
That afternoon in garments neat—
His hat was new, the bluchers sound,
In which he trod the muddy street;
when the shades of evening fell,
That playhouse door he chanced to pass—
Jim paid his “order ” (like a swell),
‘ ‘ Admit one to Professor Brass. ”
The curtain rose, Professor B.
Came forward with a massive smile,
And said that he would like to see
Some strangers give his art a trial;
Lo ! strangers came by twos and threes
(The gaping crowd their courage cheered),
And then young Jimmy, if you please,
Walked on the stage and volunteered.
Beneath the grave Professor’s spell
Those subjects mostly went to sleep,
But off his chair our Jimmy fell
And lay in an hypnotic heap ;
The wizard pricked him with a knife,
Then stuck a needle through his nose,
And cried, “ I never in my life ■
Saw such a sweet mesmeric doze.
The sleeping Jim was stiffened straight,
And someone sat upon his chest
While in that cataleptic state—
He stood the strain of every test j
Anon, he sang a comic song,
And danced about in dazed delight—
The idol of the gazing throng
Was Jimmy Griff that blessed night.
No more did pangs of hunger gnaw
The innards of the “subject Jim ”
(His mother wondered when she saw
What magic spells had done for him);
And when the good Professor B.
Bade all admiring friends “ adoo,”
And sailed away across the sea —
His faithful subject vanished too.
For wheresoever Brass appears,
’Tis written in the Book of Fate
Young Jim must join those volunteers
And fall in a mesmeric state ;
■Tim doesn’t spin and doesn’t toil,
The flesh upon his lazy fist
Is flabby, fat, and free from soil—
TTa’a Subject to a Menmerisk


FRECKLES
can be effectually eradicated by
the use of Clements’ Frecklbbane.
Frecklebane is the only reliable cure. Perfectly harmless.
Post free from the inventor, F. M. Clements’, 141 King
Street, Newtown, N.S.W., for 2s. lOd. N.S.W. stamps or
P. 0.0. Sold by Washington Soul and all chemists.
.Beware of worthless ifpitetions.
GLORIOUS NEWS FROM AMERICA.
The eminent physicians of America are recom-
mending the Anheuser Busch St. Louis Lager
Beer as being the best tonic for building up a weak
constitution. The same can be said for the
physicians of Australia. This pure and un-
adulterated Beer, we wish to impress upon the
public mind, is the purest Lager Beer brewed in
the world.
It is made from pure hops and malt only by the
Anheuser Busch Brewing Association of St. Louis,
U.S.A., who spare n> exr ense in procuring the
best material from which to brew it, and whose
famous brewery affords every facility for its per-
fect manufacture. It is in the interest of health
and temperance that the famous St. Louis Lager
Beer should be drunk in preference to any other
brand. Be sure you get the genuine, as we hear
of imitations. Sold by all wipe and spirit pier-
chants,,*
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.— “ Princess Ida.” p. 1
Her Majesty’s Theatre.—" Faust ” „
•Criterion Theatre.—“ Sophia ”
Royal Standard Theatre.— Burlesque Company... ~
Alhambra Music Hall.— Minstrelsy „
Despite the presence of eight gods and
-devil, “Venus and Adonis,” at Sydney Roya
Standard, didn’t rise on Saturday night to th
level of an artistic success. All through ou
-career we have made it a rule never to be hard o
gods when we could help it, and we have alway
-endeavoured to let devils down easily, as it is im
;possible for a man to tell what may one day
become of him, but, in spite of this, we are com
tpelled to state that some of the former would b
■dear at 3d. a quart, and if we were in the grocery
business we would give away a more formidabl
•devil with a pound of tea. “ Venus and Adonis
-was once, we imagine, rather a good burlesque
but somebody has been doing something to it
•and now not a single gleam of genius or fun islef
to gild the hollow sides of the adapter’s funeral
Some one has also been doing something to th
scenery and stage-fixings, and all through th
■evening wheelbarrows and other things, whicl
■should have been floating in the air, kept dropping
on the tails of the gods and threatening to involve
them in destruction. A good number of these
walking Josses had evidently not had time ti
learn their parts thoroughly, and, consequently
slender goddesses with blue legs got stud
at impassioned moments and had to pause
and think, and thick gods with yellow
'legs had to gag when their dialogue failec
•them, and short gods with striped legs didn’t
-know what to say next, and long gods withou
any visible means of support looked as if they
wished they were safe home in bed, and amic
1 these and other vexations the slab-sided burlesque
with its horn grown into its eye, moved painfully
■on with feet of lead shod with chloroform, anc
reached the winning-post in a fainting condition
At some time or other in the dim past “Venn
and Adonis ” had possibly some visible coherence
but every semblance of this has been knocked ou
to make room for local songs, most of which th
shirtless heathen would refuse to utilise for the
purpose of half-soleing his boots, and the only
fitting end for the remains of the piece is that i‘
should be sent to the parish morgue to awai
identification. This action would be very roug]
on the parish morgue, but it is the best schem
that we can suggest under existing circumstances
Failing this, however, a judicious weeding proces
might be attempted with regard to the puns,
number of which appear to have been fixed up by
the original seed fool of the globe. In making
these few remarks we have endeavoured to ab
stain from derision and to exercise, as much a
possible, that spirit of charity which has sustained
many a humble but sincere deacon when he
fell over a cow in the dark. In addition to thi
we are prepared to admit that certain good point
took place here and there. Miss Amy Horton
who represents Adonis, proved herself as usua
one of the prettiest and merriest of mortals, anc
played with a joyous vim which was calculated to
make a martyr guffaw at the stake. Miss Eva
Clements was a lovely Venus, and got through
her part very gracefully. Mr. J. J. Walsh made
;a roaring success of Ate, an ancient goddess witl
wegetable-mould on every available spot in the
'great boulevard of her countenance, and Mr
Will Stephens was a gentlemanly devil, anc
i didn’t look formidable only because the authoi
- didn’t give him a chance. Miss Annetta Wilhelm
Mr. Fred Dark, and a bathing machine, were
. also conspicuous, and funny man Cremar excited
i lot of applause. The rest of the company—bar-
> ring Miss Raynham—serve as a fiendish example
- of what may happen in this country, and if they
1 belonged to us we would exchange them cheerfully
for a singed cat, and then throw the cat into the
j placid sea.
## * #
The “ Gigantic Organisation of Star
'Artistes ” which conceals its stupendous propor
- tions in the confined space of Sydney Academy
continues to find an unfailing supply of baby-linen
in Fred. HiscOcks’ hat, but they never drop on
any articles of particular value, and silver spoons
and other jevyellery positively refuse to fall out
of the shiny tile. Miss Le Roche is mesmerised
nightly by the Fakir if Oolu and hung up on
spikes or otherwise suspended in empty air, or
else she is bowled through the atmosphere in in-
visible wheelbarrows propelled by viewless spirits
or tissue-paper ghosts. When the lady has floated
in the surrounding ozone till she is tired and
wants to get down, the Fakir gets in front of her
so as to conceal her from the audience, and makes
convulsive movements as though he were drag-
ging her off a nail or extricating her from a hook,
but, as it is. impossible to suppose that a nail
could be driven into the air, this may be set
down as part of the incantation. The show
generally concludes with something with a long
name which nobody in his senses can pronoun^.
*# # #
'“Princess Ida” is drawing sufficiently
well at Sydney Royal to induce the management
to extend the season by one week, and “ Dorothy”
is accordingly postponed till May 5. Although
the “ Princess ” did not absolutely carry the pub-
lic by storm at the outset after the fashion of
“ lolanthe ” and other operas, it seems to have
gradually got there to a considerable extent, and
the scenery alone is sufficient to held up a very
much weaker story than that of the virgin in
white who ran a ladies’ seminary at Castle Adam-
ant. It is pervaded all through by sunshine and
bright music and nice clothes and good principles,
and if, in view of the cold weather which has now
set in, they would keep hot drinks always on hand
at the adjacent hotel, there would be little in the
opera which could excite a carping spirit in the
most fastidious mind.
■VY* *7V* Tv*
At Sydney Gaiety Mr. Dampier’s season
is still in process of conclusion, and will finally
conclude about the 4th of May. On Tuesday
night a large audience nearly broke their necks
trying to look at the “ Green Lanes of England,”
and this old barn-storming drama has since been
succeeded by “The Lyons Courier,” a sensation
which everybody ought to see on account of the
striking phenomena developed towards the close.
In the last act, Mr. Dampier, as the noble-minded
hero, goes to the guillotine for another man’s
crime, and at the same time he, in his other
capacity as the depraved villain, with his hair
flying loose, leans out of a window opposite and
hoots at himself and asks himself how he likes it.
He makes a pathetic speech on the scaffold, but
the effect is somewhat spoiled by the fact that he
is rolling on the floor in the garret at the same
time, drinking brandy and seeing parti-coloured
dogs, and yelling to think what a fool the
other half of him is. Then, standing on the scaf-
fold, he catches sight of himself at the window,
and points himself out as the real assassin, and
rushes in and helps to seize himself, and is
separated by the police, who tie him up and re-
lease him at the same time, and he forgives him-
self and is executed and escorted home by an
enthusiastic multitude, and goes to perdition and
lives happily ever afterwards. His dishonoured
remains are buried in an obscure grave, and he
often looks back on the circumstance and ponders
upon the mysterious ways of Providence. Few
actors have ever been privileged to be so many
things at once, and fewer still have got outside
and looked at themselves in the lofty manner
which characterises Mr. Dampier under these
aggravating conditions. On Friday Miss Lily
Dampier takes a benefit in “ The World Against
Her,” a drama which is always a success at the
Gaiety, and a, few other gaudy spectacles will fill
up the remaining week.
## # #
Mr. John Plummer wishes it to be stated
that he did not write that now historic letter to
London Figaro concerning his Centennial can-
tata. But he admits that he “has only too much
reason to know wno did write it.” That’s all
right.
WWW
“ Bachelors,” by Robert Buchanan, the
author or rather adapter of “ Sophia,” is an-
nounced at Sydney Criterion for Saturday next,
and, in due course, it will appear in the bills as
“ the most successful piece ever produced in Aus-
tralia. ” At the present moment the most suc-
cessful piece is running in about 20 different parts
of this continent, and it is a different piece every
time. We draw the attention of the scientific
world to this phenomenon, and ask if they agree
with our opinion that it arises mainly through the
tendency of the reflex action of the human mind
MISS LEONORA BRAHAM.
to propagate an optical illusion in conjunction
with the perihelion of Ananias, or if it is owing
in a measure to some other cause. “ Faust ”
shows no sign of decay at Her Majesty’s, and the
Fisk Jubilee Singers profitably infest the Opera
House. ,
*# # *
Melbourne reports of the recent Lieder-
tafel corroboree at Sydney were disposed to mock
at the exaggerated homage paid, by chorus and
instrumentalists, to Signora Giovanni Ameris.
In good.truth there is a good deal of humbug
about this professional back-scratching, even when
it doesn’t take the form of downright imperti-
nence towards the paying public. Christine Nill-
son is particularly fond of discriminating between
“ artists ” and common folk. When she walks on
to the concert platform she just bows to the
audience, but curtseys to the chorus until one
would think she intended to sit right down.
Being interpreted, that curtsey means—lf I
reverence you because you’ve been drilled into
part-singing, what ought the world to think of
me ? The world —or as much of it as has planked
its money down for the occasion—thinks that it is
giving quite as much as it gets in return. By the
way, how would the worshippers of Signora
Ameris receive Adelina Patti ? On their heads,
probably.
.M. -A/»
'A' 'A' 'TV'
Augustus Harris, the shrewd lessee of
Drury Lane Theatre, is booming his new Austra-
lian prima donna. He describes Mdlle. Melba
(Mrs. Armstrong) as “ the finest and loveliest
light soprano ever born,” and predicts a furore
over her first London season. Mrs. Armstrong,
whose sweet organ was only heard on the concert
platform in this country, is the eldest daughter of
Mr. David Mitchell, the Melbourne contractor.
By the way, the “ Princess Midas ” (Miss Corn-
well) is also a contractor’s daughter.
** # *
Melbourne Juvenile Exhibition dispenses
comfort and joy to hundreds who couldn’t be
enticed into a theatre by pulleys. An air of pros-
perous respectability sits upon the brow of this
establishment (which has been artfully set up
opposite Prince’s Bridge railway terminus), and
the electric fountain plays every night to increas-
ing business. The splash made by this lovely-
tinted waterspout begins to be noised afar off. It
doesn t fall with a Niagara roar, but the general
effect is something richer than a jeweller’s stock
trickling down a cataract of silver with the lime-
light turned full on. Electric fountains are only
now in their infancy, and this particular one, pio-
neer in these parts, is recognised as a new factor
in the sum of Australian bliss. The Exhibition is
also providing much entertainment of an econo-
mical kind, by inducing ambitious amateurs to
sing, recite, and punish a piano in the shadowy
hope of securing a prize. Last week children
under 21 were put through their paces, and shaped
fairly well, considering. Some of the children
had talent without cheek, and others had cheek
without talent. The rest had neither. As each
competitor made her effort (boys being as rare as
bivalves in oyster soup), a clever-looking old
gentleman with a bald head wrote down some-
thing in a book. Later on some of those maidens
will get prizes, and then all the other competitors
and their friends and relatives will wonder what
the bald-headed gentleman can be thinking about,
I should like to know.
#* # #
At Melbourne Princess’s the Charles Warner
boom shows no signs of bursting up, and that
vigorous artist is knocking them alike in tragedy
and comedy, one down t’other come up. This
week’s attraction is “Old Heads and Young
Hearts,” a light story of juvenile love-making
muddled and mixed by elderly meddling. Mr.
Warner, as usual, takes all the fat with airy con-
fidence and success, in the part of Lyttelton Coke,
amorous barrister. Many moons have waxed and
waned since Boucicault wrote this comedy, and
the dialogue seems not quite so smart as it used to
be; nevertheless, there is enough vitality in the
show to last over six nights. Miss Isabel Morris,
Messrs. Cates, Flemmmv and Alfred Phillips
shine brightest after the boss planet, but the cast
is woefully weak in more than one place. Next
Saturday Mr. Warner will describe his bogus palace
on the Lake of Como to the “Lady of Lyons,”
a female whom age cannot wither while Venus is
the patron saint of humanity at large. When a
girl worth a cent is taken to see the “ Lady of Lyons ”
she is generally seized with an intense desire
to share her young man’s seat, and the Triumvirate
would fill a long-felt want if they provided special
fauteuils for engaged couples. ,We know. Dear
Lady Loch and the venerable Normanby took the
young ladies and a brace of attendant sprites with
blue-faced coats to see Essie Jenyns on Saturday
night. Accordingly “fashion” filled the Bijou,
and divided its attention between Essie and Lady
L. Those distinguished ladies were enough for
one evening’s entertainment, but the “Merchant
of Venice ” was played all the same., Until to-
night (Thursday) Shylock will sharpen his little
cutlass on his expansive boot, and on Friday
the alluring Essie takes her benefit in
another play. By the way, an angry lady
writes _ to a Melbourne paper stating that
the critics have tried to crush Miss Jennings
by calling her a copyist. The Bulletin was the
first paper to draw attention to her reminiscent
style, as it was also the first to predict her popu-
larity. And the angry lady is hereby advised that
no young nobleman connected with The Bulletin
would attempt to crush Miss Jennings until she
gave him proper encouragement. “ A Ring of
Iron ” continues to do its respectable best at the
Alexandra, where the management presents a
bold front to bare benches. Considering that
orders could be easily printed, there is a certain
pathetic honesty about the bleak and barren
aspect of the Alexandra auditorium and maybe
virtue will get its reward when Miss Ada
Ward strengthens the company as promised.
“ Green Busnes ” developed the sere, the yellow
leaf, after one week at the Opera House. In place
of that antique attraction they have revived
“Missing at Lloyd’s,” a nautical thriller which
the Vivians have previously tried on the same
stage. The acting was only moderate beforehand
now it is rather more so, but a well-conceived
shipping disaster breaks the monotony. At the
Royal, ‘‘New Babylon ” isn’t a-falling until next
Saturday, when that lively panorama of impossi-
bilities terminates in the interests of “ Mankind.”
The Coghills have got hold of some new talent,
and Clark’s Combination will shortly include two
gutta-percha strangers from America—the Donald-
son Brothers.
*# # #
Mr. William Walsh, better known by the
name of King, a member of the Walsh and King
combination, died last week, of English cholera,
in St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney. He was a
comedian of no mean order, and will long be re-
membered in Sydney as the black steward in
“ Fun on the Bristol.”
## * *
In one of the Sydney theatres a little
excitement has been provided by the violent
ejectment of two bailiffs who were shot out into
a cold world on their respective ears.
*3V W
It was the conclusion of a play wherein
the hero in his desperation takes poison because of
his poverty. Money comes, but too late. The
man is almost up the Golden Stair, and the fel-
low who had brought the money stands and madly
writes his autograph in the sky with his walking-
stick. The house was half-stifled with emotion
when a fat prosaic man in the stalls screamed out:
“ Now the fool has got the money why the devil
doesn’t he buy a stomach-pump.”
'A' 'X-
“ Dorothy, ” at Adelaide Royal, is pound-
ing out her sweet songs on the kerosene-tin of
fame with such success that she will be continued
for another week. When she leaves she will be
followed by the tears of a whole city, and Dr.
Watts’ melodies about the bottomless pit will have
lost their charm by comparison. Hymns which
deal with the cheerful topic of Sheol can’t stand
against opera, which is a grievous pity when we
consider that opera is sinful and hymns about
Sheol are not. Miss May Habgood is a tower of
strength to Tommy Hudson’s combination, and
otherwise Adelaide is enjoying a little quiet
misery as usual.
** # *
Johnny Hall, the popular actor, broke a
blood-vessel at Brisbane, recently. A fair corres-
pondent of a local rag, alluding to this catas-
trophe, says flutteringly, “ His life was saved by
constant applications of ice, and he may be grate-
ful that he was not seized in a place where ice
teas unavailable .” This is rough on poor Jobnny.
'X'
A distinguished member of the Simonsen
Italian Opera Company was married, a few days
ago, to a pretty girl whom he met casually at a
Melbourne photo, gallery, where he had gone to
get his elegant person handed down to future
generations. At the Brisbane (Q.) Opera House,
the other Saturday, a Chinkie who jogged into
the stalls, was assailed by a perfect' typhoon of
hoots and hisses from an incensed pit. Sun Kum,
however, smiled a “no savee ” grin, and retained
his seat. The behaviour of that Chow is the real
state of the Chinese Question in Australia. That
hard-working, meritorious little band, the “ Dan
Barry” Co., are wresting the triumphant herb
from the ancient claw of Fame in Newcastle. Miss
Ivanova (who made a fetching “Boccaccio” in
Sydney last year) is transfixing the animated corn-
cobs up Bourke way, and the management have to
send a bodyguard to take her home from the
theatre for fear some wicked Western yokel may
meditate an abduction. Mrs. Langtry has an
immense white lace-over-silk umbrella with a huge
blush-pink coral carved handle. We expect it’s
borrowed. On dit that Brough and Boucicault
intend engaging the divine Essie to star with their
company. How’s this ? Isn’t Miss Jenyns going
to England after all ? We wish we had that stamp
back now that we put on the tract we sent her
which was headed “Beware of Dukes.” The
well-dressed St. Maur now exhibits his ankles
with success at Sandhurst. Delphin Alard, the
celebrated violinist, has handed in his fiddle and bow
to the Recording Angel at the advanced age of 72.
The enterprising burglar is still pursuing actresses
for purposes of advertisement. Last week Sig-
nora Majeroni’s fur cloak was unlawfully lifted
from her dressing-room at Brisbane Royal by a
fiend in human shape, who bore it away to his
cave. A certain Australian tragedian, or rather,
a tragic Australian, was playing Othello some
time ago in Ballarat, and, on making his entrance
in the second act, he had just commenced his speech
to Desdemona, “Oh, my fair warrior,” &c., when
he saw one of the pages with her tights rather
loose, whereupon he turned round and in a voice
of thunder said, “Mary, pull up your slacks.” A
lady in the profession once thought to take a rise
out of a certain venerable actor (recently deceased)
who had married a young wife. When liis son
was born, the lady jokingly asked him whom he
suspected, to which he replied, with awful
sternness, “ Your husband, madam /” One
of George Leitch’s advertising dodges is to
plant a couple of sentries outside the door of
Brisbane Royal. They look so military that no
one can tell them from the real thing. Lazy
Comedian : “ What wonderful energy you put
into that smothering scene, dear boy—can’t think
how you do it ? ” Heavy Tragedian : “ Easy
enough, old man ; I imagine my wife is under the
bolster.” George Darrell has been playing “ Sunny
South,” &c., to very big business, at Ballarat anil
Sandhurst.
During a sitting of Sydney District Court
last week, one word from Judge Dowling was
sufficient to stop the working of a circular-saw,
which was running next door, and causing great
annoyance to the Court. In Melbourne it took a
special injunction issued by Chief Justice Higin-
botham to stop the noise made in an adjacent
carpenter’s shop. This doesn’t prove that the
Sydneyites have more respect for the law than the
Melbournites ; it only shows that the workshops
in the Freetrade city have so little to do that a
spell of a day or so makes no difference to them.


Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pejnell’s Snow-white Patent Roller Floor is the
best in the market
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour, It is the greatest success of tbs
age.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour; and your bread will be as white as snow.
AErated Items.
The microbes brought by Pasteur s nephew
to Sydney, have been deposited for safety at the
local Lands Office. This is a great imstake if
they happened to be preserved m liqmd. iney
drink anything at the N.S.W. Lands Office.
• * •
A writer of gushing romance in a Mel-
bourne paper speaks of returning to the home o
his childhood and finding the fo r-haiml
girl, whom he left making mud-pies, baking the
mother of a large family. ’
* * *
A Melbourne weekly observes that the
society lady is the most long-suffering creature on
earth. We have noticed that she can bare a great
deal.
* *
Window-glass is now made from paper
dipped in camphor and alcohol, which makes
it like parchment. It can afterwards be cut into
remarkably tough sheets entirely transparent.
What a beautiful object-lesson at would be to
members of the N.S.W. Assembly if Parkes
various insolvency-schedules were so treated and
used as window-panes tothe House of Parliament.
In the highly improbable event of there not being
enough paper to go quite round, the gaps cou d
be appropriately filled up with camphorated and
aleoholised printed slips bearing the complicated
“sliding scale” of commission and interest
charged by Minister Abigail’s bank.
# • *
Scott’s Hotel, Collins-street, Melbourne,
was offered for sale by auction last week, and
massed in at £lOO,OOO. The freehold and business
■of Scott’s is owned by Mr. Wllson, who m the
time of the late Mr. Scott was a waiter at the
hotel. The frugal Wilson is now worth a good
deal more than the £lOO,OOO aforesaid, all com-
piled by means of a level head, hard work, and
minding his own business. Verily do all things
come to him who knows how to wait—and leaves
off when he has a chance of getting a big hotel of
his own. - .
• w
A body of well-dressed church “ Chris-
tians ” founded a charitable home in Sydney a
few weeks ago, with a view to making the orphan
rejoice and the widow sing for gladness. lhey
engaged a destitute widow with two children to
act as matron, and agreed to board and lodge the
trio in exchange for their services, and to leave
them to skirmish for clothes, pocket-money and
boots as best they could. The lady, according to
nstructions, went to take possession of her new
billet the same evening, and found herself camped
in an empty house, with nothing to eat and uo
firing. Having an impression, however, that the
committee would be along shortly with some fur-
niture and some traces of board, the party roosted
for the night in the empty dwelling. But next
day also passed without anything turning up, and
another night found the matron and her onspring
desperately hungry and cold and miserable, and
pretty nearly ready to eat the committee bodily.
They spent their second night, like the first one,
on the floor, and about noon the third day one of
the lavish alleged Christians who had founded the
establishment came along. Being appealed to for
assistance, she replied that she couldn t see her
way to pay anything out of her own purse, but
that (she would lay the matter before the
committee. She did so, the matron and her
family holding out on a bone meanwhile and im-
bibing a cooling beverag'e at the pump, and the
committee resolved that until they could arrange
to lay in a table and chair their officer should be
allowed 7s. a week in lieu of board, this amount
to cover refreshments for the two children. By
the time this decision was arrived at, however,
the lady superintendent had been sleeping on the
floor for about a week, so she collected her 7s. and
disappeared. The body of well-dressed saints ex-
pressed themselves much surprised at this act of in-
gratitude, but set it down to the grasping and un-
reasonable character of the lower classes, and pro-
ceeded to advertise for a new matron.
• * *
When the late Chief J ustice Martin was
leaving Sydney for the Northern (N.S.W.) cir-
cuit, on one occasion, lie got a telegram from a
young solicitor, informing him that all the leading
hotels were occupied by litigants and the relatives
of the prisoners whom he was to try, and as he
(the solicitor) was in no way concerned in any of
the cases he wished the judge to partake of his
hospitality. Sir James telegraphed graciously
accepting the invitation. Theretofore the young
attorney had not been able to get a case, and was
ignored by “ the swells, who are the chief sup-
port of the solicitor. He now announced to local
society that the Chief Justice would be his guest
during the circuit, and invited the foremost of
them to meet Sir Janies at dinner. The judge
ever afterwards took up his quarters at the same
place. The attorney acquired a splendid practice,
afterwards sold out, and is now senior member of
one of the wealthiest firms in Sydney.
* * *
When Victoria by the Grace writes a letter
all out of her own head she isn’t a striking success.
Here’s a faithful extract from a private -note to
General Gordon’s sister Some day 1 hope to
.see you again, to tell you all I cannot express.
My daughter Beatrice, who has felt quite as I do,
wishes me to express her deepest sympathy with
you T hear so many expressions of sorrow and
sympathy from abroad from my eldest daughter,
the Crown Princess, and from my Cousin, the
King of the Belgians, the very warmest. Would
you express to your other sisters and your elder
brother my true sympathy.” There is a dull
monotony of “sympathy” about the Queen s
literary effort, and enough “ express ” to satisfy a
railway time-table. Then, again, the dear old lady
undertakes to tell what she can’t express., and in-
nocently exposes the evanescent nature of Trixey’s
anguish by saying “ she has felt as Ido.” We’ll
pass the capital C for Cousin on account of the
relative’s royal rank, but giving Her Gracious the
lienefit of a doubt in that case, her loyal
subjects must admit that she is much richer
in fact than in fancy. The Queen has received
a life-long education in the English lan-
guage. Its resources have been shown to her in
reams of correspondence from accomplished pens.
She has conversed with the best speakers, speak-
ing on their mettle. For 50 years she has been
making voluminous entries in a diary. And with
it all Her Majesty can’t put a dozen sentences to-
gether in the style of a clever Woman. The royal
failing has been transmitted too When a pri-
vate letter of “ Tummy’s ” was published to an
admiring world it appeared that lie advised Lady
Mordaunt to “ lay up ” if she had a bad cold on
her little chest. But to give him and his mamma
their just dues, they are prodigies of brain-power
compared with the Princess of Wales. That
smiling, charming little automaton is incapable
of fixing up any sort of letter without assistance.
Dear Bulletin,— You and 1 cAn do it
now. You and the staff I appoint, directors. I
appoint myself manager, r add I believe (barring
the wife) I can fulfil all the conditions named in
the following extract from a Melbourne paper :
Worrier is very well connected. He came to the
V olony about eight years ago with the intention of fol-
iowing his occupation as a banker, but did not succeed.
His Wife had to leave him and work for her living. The
house he lived in is a wretched hovel.”
Anyone, even Abigail, can start a bank. Still, I
don’t see why country barmaids should call the
clerks and tellers by the lordly name of banker.
Yours, Scotty the Wrinkler.
• *
Queensland seems to be getting pretty
-weary of that eminent fall-back officer, Colonel
French, who was imported from the dear old
mother land to superintend the busted bomb-shell
department in the sultry North. A few weeks
ago this tear-and-blazes officer was bossing with
reckless valour an encampment at Lytton, when
an unwarlike circus pitched itself on a hill at some
distance. The Colonel instantly ordered the
source of public amusement to move, but the
owner of the show explained that he had rented
the ground from a gentleman with a freehold title,
and he didn’t know why he ought to go. Then
the wrath of the War Department rose to fever
heat, and a body of troops were sent to tear the
circus to shivers, and throw the wild beasts and
EILIAL OBEDIENCE
FEMALE PARAGON OE VIRTUE: “ALWAYS OBEY YOUR PARENTS, OR YOUR
DAYS WILL NOT BE LONG IN THE LAND. DISOBEDIENCE ALWAYS
BRINGS ITS OWN PUNISHMENT.”
JUVENILE CASUIST: “BUT, PLEASE, MISS, IF FATHER SAYS DO ANYTHING
AND MOTHER SAYS DON’T DO IT, WHAT’S A FELLER TO DO?”
FEMALE PARAGON (with a far-away look at a boy in the rear) : “A—HEM! SIT HP!
BROWN!”
sawdust into the Brisbane River. The northern
papers are now remarking what a tail their mili-
tary cat has got to be sure, and the public in
general are asking what a Naval Defence scheme
and a whole squad of Imperial officers would be
like when one poor miserable colonel goes about
destroying circuses and wild-beast shows in this
fashion. The average British officer has got too
much sass for any white man to tolerate him, and
the one article of his military faith is that the
“ blasted kawlonial ” was made to be trodden
upon. The fact that the “blasted kawlonial”
doesn't share this opinion is the rock ahead for
Australian Imperialism.
• * *
A rev. gentleman (Anglican), who for
many years has not had a very happy married
life, was, a week or so ago in Sydney, ordered to
pay 15s. a week towards his wife’s support. He
couldn’t have been punished enough, though, for
now-Jehovah has taken the matter in hand, and
sent along a wind which has blown down his
church-steeple and whipped off a slice of the par-
sonage.
The town of Coleraine (Vic.) is haunted
by a strange uncanny mystery which has shaken
society to its very base. One bright pleasant
morning last week, just as the radiant sun arose,
the family of one of the leading citizens was
aroused to sudden excitement by a sound of wail-
i'nig arid,, hooting, from jibe recesses of the water-
tank. The leading; citizen hastened to the spot
'parrying the poker with him on general principles
Test a burglar should have broken into the water-
supply, and cautiously looking into the fountain
he discovered a beautiful young lady of about 18
who was trying to climb up the interior of the
tank with her nails. Not to put too fine a point
upon it, it was his eldest daughter. She had her
best frock on and looked as if she had been stand-
ing in four feet of water for several hours. Being
hauled out, she assumed an attitude of re-
serve and declined to make any affidavit
as to the reasons which led to her being
in a tank when she might reasonably have
been expected to be in bed, and a coolness
now exists between her and her pa in consequence.
The circumstance has naturally created a_ senti-
ment of profound distrust throughout the district,
and many once happy homes are now over-
shadowed by a fear on the part of the male
adult taxpayer that he may come home to find
his wife mysteriously on the roof and his off-
spring unaccountably stuck in the stove-pipe.
A general feeling pervades the town that a
tank is not the right place in which to find a
pretty girl in her best frock at an early hour in
the morning, and if this sort of thing is not
stopped it may end in the Governor’s wife being
found roosting among the hens at 2 a.m.. and the
Premier being discovered sitting on the coals.
Society, therefore, demands an explanation. The
customs of civilised nations are not to be trodden
underfoot with impunity, and Coleraine has re
solved to resist to the bitter end anything that
looks like a return to the barbarism of our remote
ancestors. Not that our remote ancestors were
actually given to standing in tanks at
daybreak, or that they had any tanks
to stand in either then or at any other
time—in fact, history furnishes only the most
meagre records about our ancestors having been
found standing anywhere, and when they were
found under any circumstances at all they gene-
rally seem to have run away ; but Coleraine is
resolved to resist on general principles, and unless
that young lady is prepared to explain herself
her status in society will be seriously endangered.
• * •
A certain Rev. Gray Dixon says that ‘‘ so
far as any knowledge of the true God goes, some
of the most accomplished men in the city of Mel-
bourne are veritable heathens.” Humph ! they
want the rev. gentleman to give ’em an introduc-
tion.
* * *
At the church service at one of the
N.S.W. hospitals for the insane, a female patient
who was present began to get noisy. The attend-
ants, to quieten her, told her that the new doctor
would be angry with her if she made a noise. She
immediately jumped up on the seat in the middle
of a prayer, and pointing at the new doctor afore-
said, who was of a fair, not to say carrotty
aspect, yelled out at the top of her voice : “ The
new doctor ! That’ ginger-whiskered apothecary !
Who cares what he thinks ? ” Exit, having nine
kinds of fits simultaneously.
The Brickbat.
[Slung by Titus Salt,' scribe by special appointment to
His Excellency Baron Carington .]
Poor old Kaiser William has sunk very
low. When he was alive he was a grand old man
on a portable iron bedstead, and if he hadn’t been
so fond of eating hot buttered crab he might have
been with us yet. Now he is dead, and every
artist in texts and devastation all over the known
world feels called upon to preach about him at
intervals. One Melbourne parson in particular
was moved to make the following deep obser-
vation :
“ The Emperor’s life is an illustration of the three
following facts: —1. That there are some lives which an!
short lived, and are liable to be destroyed by frost in their
very infancy. 2. Others, again are liable to dissolution at
a ripe old age. 3. All persons, whatever their age or
social standing, are equally amenable to death.
We have often noticed the same thing ourselves.
A great many people die a lot younger than
others, and we have frequently remarked with
emphasis that they don’t all die at the same time,
Some remarkable people, too, we believe, aren’t
born, and many wonderful events don’t happen.
Some of them, however, are more liable to happen
than others, and others again are less so, and by
striking an average between these two classes of
circumstances that aren’t there' it becomes possible
to ascertain why some circumstances are equally
probable with others. Some people, too, are more
liable to be born than others, which remark also
applies to hogs. As a rule, only dead people go
to heaven.
* * *
The dunderheaded preacher continues to
wander round on his two feet looking for the
“hand of God,” by which he means the brick
which hits anybody’s head except his own, A few
weeks ago the little town of Norsewood (N. A) was
cleaned off the face of the earth, in common with
several other small settlements, by a stupendous
bush-fire, and a fluent slogger in the vineyard at
once wrote to the N. A Methodist on the sub-
ject
With regard to the real cause a? the fire, t look upoii it
as a judgment from God for the Wickedness of the people,
who have refused to repent after having heard so much of
God’s words, although, thank God, there are a few goA
fearing people there. About four years ago the Norse-
wood people by their votes closed the hotel in the township
and three others in the district. Only a week before the
fire the people voted to open the hotel again, and did so
with much joy. If others cannot see or will not see God’s
hand in this calamity, 1 can see it, and I know the people
well, having been acquainted with them for nearly 13
years. May this visitation be a warning he* on'lv to
Norse wood but to the whole colony.
The present writer is pot profanely inclined,
but there are two or three points in these remarks
which seem to call for comment. According to
the N.Z, Methodist’s theory, Providence was
aiming at one common little public-house, ahd had
to tear up an entire district to get at it. Now
one ordinary white man, even when he is drunk,
can generally hit a public house at the first shot,
and does it stand to reason that a sober
Providence is a worse shot than a tight
sinner? The “hand of God,” according
te the parsonical sniveller, is a lumbering
machine which has to squash a whole city in order
to get at one small boy who stole a marble oh
the third Tuesday in last month. And when tlife
stupendous squash has been accomplished Ail'd a
thousand people have been wiped oUt, the local
preacher, as the man who giVßs Providence the
straight tip every Sunday, can tell at the very
first try that the V.'hole catastrophe was got up to
shatter the particular sinner on whom his epis-
copal eye is fixed, and that the other 999 land-
grabbers, usurers, swell thieves, hypocrites, pawn-
brokers, and the like were the innocent victims of
this wretch’s depravity. In private life the cleric
in question may not know 7 a horse from a cow, but
as long as the ink holds out he can divulge thv
ways of Providence till further orders. Ac oftfeh
as not he is not sufficiently intelligent to Wash a
dog, but, all the same, he is ready to ex pound the
hidden causes of earthquakes and to show hoW the
Supreme Power founded a new volcano and
wrecked a whole province in its wrath at the eVil
conduct of some mute, inglorious yokel of whom
nobody had ever heard so much as the name.
These sorts of things are making the world tired,
and the parson is falling into oblivion. A man
who knows so much and does so little with it is a
nuisance of the first magnitude.
» * *
Kentucky (U.S.) has views about A neW
divorce law. The attention of Imperial Federa.
tionists, people who have married a dfe'c'eAsra
wife’s sister and other moralists is invited to the
following measure now before the State Legisla-
ture ;
“ Marriage is prohibited and declared void with an
idiot, luilatic, paralytic, pauper, vagrant, tramp,
drunkard, gambler, rake, felon, feeble-minded person, or
any person rendered physically helpless and unfit for the
inarriage relation by malformation, misfortune, accident,
or any vicious cause or habit of life, or any
person who is at the time of applying for license to
marry, or has been within one year next preceding such
application, either the keeper of, or an inmate, or visitor
to, any house of ill-fame, or any person who, having been
once married, has been divorced for any of the causes
aforesaid.”
Victoria, by the grace of God, who so recently
vetoed the N.S.W. Divorce Bill, might study this
little programme with advantage, and Alexander
of Battenberg, who has already one wife and yet
proposes with the approbation of the above-men-
tioned monarch to take another, might also
peruse it with prayerful attention. The worst of
the proposed law is that it is rather too compre-
hensive. No member of the British royal family
could get legally married in Kentucky, for if he
wasn’t brought up with a shock for being a rake
lie would be superannuated as a feeble-minded
person, idiot, lunatic, or victim of age,
disease, cold feet, or general stupidity, and even
if he ran the gauntlet of all these conditions he
would probably be blocked on a charge of liquor
or over-corpulence. Two-thirds of the present
N.S.W. Ministry would be incapacitated for
domestic joys under this Act, and about four-
fifths of the remaining third would be held over
for consideration while the fate of the other fifth
would be doubtful. Half the Imperial Federa-
tion League, too, would be prohibited from seek-
ing the love of woman, and but if we go on
we may be betrayed into personal remarks.
In Brisbane they don’t say, “Go to
Sheol.” They say, “Go to Townsville.”
A man named Peter Jones, not liking the
affix junior, has just had his infant son christened
Repeater.
When the Australian people are fully
satisfied that the disease will not communicate
itself to other animals, they intend introducing
leprosy-microbes amongst the Chinese with a
view to mitigating the plague. M. Pasteur might
give his attention to the eradication of the chicken '
eollarer.


“I have found Mr. W. F. Caunt’s phosphorised Iron
Quinine Tonic superior to any others j have used. It is
an excellent nervine.—Yours, WjU.k Palmer.” Prepared
only by W. F. CAUNT, Tb e pharmacy, Qamperdown.
Obtainable from all Chemist no substitutes.
Character by Hand- writing.— Professor Alcott, Graphi-
ologist, will, on receipt of sample and Is. stamps, forward
full clearly defined character of the writer, answer
questions, and recommend the most suitable occupation
without extra charge.—Address, Prof. Hugh Alcott,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Personal Items.
Kaiser William only left £2,500,000 be-
hind him.
Henry Buckley, who died the other day,
was a member of the first Queensland Parliament.
Browning is said to be the Emperor
Frederick’s favourite poet. We thought it was
Sladen.
Somebody having discovered the body of
Alexander the Great, Leichhardt need not now be
despaired of.
It is said of Duncan Gillies that he never
gives a sprat to catch a mackerel but he wants
fivepence change.
Lady Lock is indisposed pretty frequently
on reception days. His Excellency's other rib is
progressing favourably.
Bruno is running a stew-depot in Port
Melbourne. People journey from far and near
to gaze on Bruno’s hashes.
Gone are the days of chivalry. Mr.
Miltiades, from Greece, keeps an oyster-shop op-
posite The Bulletin office.
Herbert Spencer limits his work to three
hours a day. His wonderful books are written
entirely at dictation, and for recreation he plays
-billiards.
Herbert Palmer, of tlie Imperial Review
(Melb.), writes in all seriousness : “ We profoundly
admire the Book of Revelation, an integral part
of our mind, wrought in.”
Tom Hales, Australia’s premier jockey,
and Adam Lindsey Gordon were once together
on a station in South Australia, the former as a
stockrider ; the poet as a horsebreaker.
Queen Victoria has been photographed
smiling. A Yankee paper says that “ the photo-
grapher brought the pleased expression to her
face by promising her the pictures at half-price.”
Mrs. Langtry, who is in very bad health,
is bringing a libel action against the N.Y. Sun
for having stated that her illness was caused by
over-indulgence in champagne at a certain supper.
Queen Victoria is exceedingly wroth at the
sympathy awakened in the fate of the lamented
Lady Flora Hastings by the erection the other
week of a monument to her memory at Loudoun
Castle.
The robe with the tawny edging worn by
Judge Windeyer was, it is said, presented to him
by Sir Alfred Stephen. We always did think
that the mantle of Stephen had fallen on Win-
deyer.
At a luncheon in Melbourne the other
day an admirer of Rev. Alex. Marshall, the new
pastor of Scots’ Church, said he was a man of
“elevated intellect.” The doctor is six-foot-three
in his socks.
Coningsby Disraeli, who is a poor, miser-
able little devil, is a candidate for a seat in the
Commons What a handicap his name will be !
So far, his only visible ability consists in “ making-
up ” like the old man.
Mildura, the Chaffey Bros. ’ settlement, is
progressing. It has two newspapers, and two of
the scribes attached thereto fought the other day
in sueli desperate earnest that each now wears a
pair of beautiful black eyes.
The condition of the Emperor Frederick
is rapidly getting worse. He is now, according
to latest cablegrams, confined to his bed and suf-
fering horribly. Queen Victoria, too, has gone to
Berlin. That will probably settle him. She is
his mother-in-law.
An early colonial poet described the parsi-
mony of one of our Governors in the following
couplet:—
“ When he eats an orange he’ll hand you the pips,
‘They’ll grow if you plant ’em,’ says Governor
Gipps.”
Edison declines to report on the electrical
apparatus, for executing criminals, submitted to
him by the U.S.A. legislative commission. He
says that, being opposed to capital punishment,
he would rather employ electricity “in restoring
executed men to life.”
Cancer and cancan ! The Prince of Wales
was amusing himself with actress Desclauzas, at
Madame de Sagan’s soiree at Cannes, while his
brother-in-law, the Crown Prince, was at his very
worst in a house hard by. The Crown Princess
fainted twice the very same night from emotion
and mental agony.
At a meeting of tlie Wicklow National
League, last month, Father M‘Enerney said :
“It is a sad thing in this historic county there
should be found men who fawn upon extermina-
tors, who doff the hat, and hang upon the smiles
of the battering-ram of tyranny.” This is equal
to Dan. O’Connor’s very best.
Te Whiti, the Maori prophet, announces
positively that the coming of Christ will take
place next year, and has promised to give the
papers due notice of the exact date. The an-
nouncement causes no excitement, however, as
N. Z. is quite taken up with high-toned members
of the British aristoewasy. “The potato is
cooked.”
Serjeant Ballantine went to dine with a
parvenu acquaintance of his. The butler asked
the learned serjeant whom he should announce.
“ Serjeant Ballantine, please.” Whereupon the
door was flung open, and the servant announced
“Captain Bannantine,” informing the guest in
an aside whisper, “We never have sergeants
here.”
Ex-Chief Justice Stawell is in bad health
and has resigned his Melbourne University Coun-
cillorship; it is said he has also sent to Eng-
land his resignation of the Victorian Lieutenant-
Governorship. He was born in Cork in 1812,
arrived in Melbourne in ’3‘J, anu wept Iff squatting
till ’57, when he appointed himself Chief tie coin?
(he being Attorney-General), and then wemthe e
bald-headed for the study of law. A.
Dr. Morrison, of the Melbourne Scotch
College, has been spending his Baxter holidays in
Sydney. The Doctor is an employer of Chinese
labor, for there is a real “Chinkie” professor at
the Scotch College —one Mr. Chec, n g, who keeps a
fruit-shop in Fitzroy, and preaches and prays
among the Wesleyans. bo it observed,
doesn’t teach Chinese to the sons at
Morrison’s establishment, but I nglish, quite Eng-
lish, you know. Talk of competition in chair-
making and cabbage-raising aft e r that —when the
Mongol comes over to Australia, to compete with
the British schoolmaster in teaching English to
the sons of settlers from Inverness where the
essence of pure Anglo-Saxon is spoken !
The Rev. William Anderson, “M.F.A.,”
rises to argue out the Late Hours Question, per
the S.M. Herald, and his “reform” is a very
neat stroke of “ biz.” indeed. He says that owing
to late hours on Saturday shop-assistants don’t
rise early enough to attend the divine plate on
Sunday morning, and accordingly the “cawse”
wilts. So he howls for reform, and suggests that
employers “ keep open late on Wednesday night ”
instead ! For a piece of touting this is sublime.
It would seem that in viewing the question the
rev. gentleman considers that the sufferings of
the salver are. more to be regarded than the true
amelioration of the condition of the white slaves
of Sydney.
The omission on the part of the German
authorities to call to the aid of the present Em-
peror the skilled specialists of France is a measure
of national littleness. In this connection it is in-
teresting to note the case of Louis Bert heme, a
Parisian wine-seller, who has not only no larynx
and enjoys the most perfect health, but is able
also to attend to his business as well as he ever
did, can speak, can eat and drink, without discom-
fort. He is 37 years of age, and in 1885 suffered
from throat-ulceration. Tracheotomy was per-
formed in February, 1886, by Dr. Pean, and 14
days afterwards, to Bertheme’s intense relief, his
larynx was removed. He has now been two years
without any larynx with the excellent results
abovementioned.
The Very Rev. William Corbet Le Breton,
Dean of Jersey, died in London a few weeks ago.
He will be remembered solely as the father of Mrs.
Langtry. He had a curious life, - and the pages
would glow or blush which told a tithe of his ad-
ventures. He had the same strange beauty of
faceand figure that belongs to his famous daughter.
He was tall, stately, muscular ; a most imposing
figure. Mrs. Langtry, with that keen eye for an
advertisement which has made her a successful
actress, exploited him in recent years in a most
amusing way. When she was on a provincial tour
in England, she used to go about during the day
with her father, the dean, dressed in gaiters and
spotless clothes paid for out of her own purse.
This produced an excellent effect—especially in the
cathedral towns.
Eminent murderers have long made it
perfectly clear that the most certain road to
"IN DREAMS IT IS STILL WITH ME”
M. P. (who has suddenly been awakened from his first steed by caterwauling outside his
window): “MR. SPEAKER!”
eternal salvation is to be convicted of the most
fearful of all crimes and to be sentenced to death.
Dr. Cross, tlie Cork prisoner, than who no more
cold-blooded monster ever went to the scaffold,
has furnished the latest example of this truth. He
did not, indeed, make a last dying speech and con-
fession, proclaiming his own spiritual contentment
and exhorting mankind to follow his blessed ex-
ample, but he left a will which bestows not
only his goods but a great deal of valuable moral
on his family and friends, hopes that his
children will be trained in the Protestant faith,
and winds up with the expression of his profound
conviction that the “Bible, pure and simple, is
the true religion.”
When the present Emperor of Germany
was married to the Princess Royal of England,
the boys of Eton demonstrated the great overflow of
their enthusiasm and their utter want of employment
by taking out the horses of fthe royal carriage and
drawing the bridal pair to the railway-station.
The sweet girl of the occasion is now an Empress,
and one of the Eton boys who drew the vehicle
has blossomed into a Governor of N.S. Wales and
all its dependencies—Baron Carington, in fact.
When the Chinese Commissioners were in
Melbourne it was deemed expedient to show them
through a newspaper office ; so, accompanied by a
strong Government House crowd, they visited
the Herald, which is the only paper at full swing
in the day-time. Editor Y. Winter >yas
on his best.heHd’Slff tnat day, and not once dur-
ing their-A didn’t liav- composing-room did he ex-
press hiiien suddenkt, Yiddish and Yolapiik which
a "even if them his tongue just before going
in life the When the turn of the reporters’
, t amount found to his horror that it was the
irV ’ ing race woen the engagement-book is made
up L bacca,” prmion. It would destroy all the
glory-vCoh Wnair to exhibit the staff boiling their
billies and grilling red-herrings, but the astute
Samuel was equal to the occasion. He remem-
bered that Connor and Cannon were just then ar-
ranging one of their “ matches ” in the Sports-
man office, which adjoins the reporters’ room.
Thither he led their Chownesses, and, saying
“the staff, gentlemen!” waved his- hand to
Donald Dinnie, Professor Miller, Slavia, Cos-
tello, Victor, &c., &c. The yellow visitors were
much impressed and surprised to find so many
fine, respectable-looking barbarians following
the disreputable occupation of journalism. The
massive cranium of Jack Connor, who was sign-
ing his mark at the time, completely awed them,
and when they glanced suspiciously at Peter
Newton’s nose Mr, Winter astutely remarked
that Peter was the libel-editor.
The life of a woman of ton is a pitiful affair.
By her literature shall you know her, and this,
from a Sydney paper, is her literature :
“ I think, perhaps, the ‘5 o’clock system’ may be per-
nicious, as one goes from house to house sipping cups of
tea of different strengths and qualities, which, taken at a
time when our brains may be a little excited by gossip,
may act in an unwholesome manner upon our nervous
tissues."
Fancy the mothers of the Spartan warriors sip-
ping tea with their poor little brains excited by
gossip. Ye gods ! what brains !
The Australian parsonical journalist loves
to study the semi-nude ballet-girl as she waves her
tights in the mazy dance, and he defends his ac
tion generally on the ground that he is viewing
tlie works of the Creator. Also he is reasonably
suspected of glaring upon the beer when it is in a
pewter and watching the barmaid between whiles.
The results of this blessed meditation appear in
a recent leading article in Sydney D.T.
“ The lives of some barmaids are examples of unrecorded
heroism. A girl who .. . . stands behind a bar from
morning till midnight, putting up with the drivelling im-
pertinences of soft youths and others who ought to know
better,, represents a sample of human nature that Dr.
Jefferis ought to be proud of.”
Wo agree with the D. T. for ouce. Pastor Jefferis
ought to take the barmaid to his ample bosom,
and press one of his cooling sermons to her fevered
brow. Further on we read that barmaids are
often “ some of the very finest specimens of human
creation.” We agree with that too. Alas, that
it is impossible to say the same of deacons !
Mr. Smith, Liberal member for Dundee,
when addressing the electors of that city, said :
“ The Tory Government in Ireland were trying to
punish boycotting as a crime. There had always been
boycotting. The Jews boycotted the Samaritans, and
were themselves boycotted ever since. There was plenty
of boycotting in England at the present time ; there were
districts in which a man could not carry on business un-
less he joined the Primrose League and wore its badge.
St.’ Paul told them not to keep company with covetous
men, revilers, extortioners —not even to eat with them.
If St. Paul said that in Ireland the Tory Government
would give him a month on a plank-bed for it. They
would steal his cloak and tell his gaolers to strip his
clothes from him. And what would St. Paul say to that ?
lie would turn round and say to Balfour what he said to
the High Priest Ananias : ‘ God shall smite thee thou
whited wall’ ”
A possible extract from the future Scrip-
tures of Australia
“ Fan Tan, the Chinese Governor, roasted a fat pig’, and
set it up in the Sydney Domain, in the colony of New
South Wales.
“Then Fan Tan the Governor sent to gather together
the market-gardeners, the tea-hearers, and the cabinet-
makers, the torturers, the washermen, the kidnappers,
and all the rulers of the opium-dens, to come to the dedi-
cation of the pig - which Fan Tan the Governor had set up.
“Then a leper cried aloud, To you it is'commanded,
O free-born Chinamen, and Australians which are their
bond-slaves,
“ That at what time ye hear the sound of the tom-tom,
tin-kettle, and all kinds of music, ye shall fall down and
worship the fat pig which Fan Tan the Governor hath set
up.
“Therefore at that time, when all the people heard the
sound of the tom-tom, tin-kettle and all kinds of music,
they fell down and worshipped the fat pig’ which Fan Tan
the'Governor had set up.
“And when they had worshipped, it came to pass that
the Imperial Federation League, which were bond-slaves,
did anoint the fat pig with oil, and Fan Tan the Governor
set them free.”
A drover “shouting” for his camp was
asked if he preferred Irish or Scotch whisky, and
replied that it was immaterial. The blackf ellow of
the camp, when asked, “ What’s yours ?” said,
“ Oh ! gib it the bloomin' immaterial, too.”
A good yarn is being told about the Rev.
Alexander Marshall, rssenfly imported to. supply
a long-felt want at the notorious Scots’ Church,
Melbourne. In his bachelor days, Mr. Marshall
was hunted up by a leathery spinster with a
“front”—natural and artificial. This antique
Venus worked her chair close to the good-looking
parson’s, and said she had received a divine reve-
lation by night; advising her that she was to be-
come Mrs. Marshall. The elected one ran his
critical eye over his “ mash,” and told her straight
that he didn’t intend to move in the matter until
the Almighty mentioned it to him. The neces-
sary revelation never came off, so Mr. M. planked
his affections on something more pleasing. At
this point the yarn terminates, and the fate of the
leathery spinster is shrouded in gloom.
POLITI CAL
POINTS
The most unruly member in the ’Ouse.-
The tongue (’Ear, ’ear.)
A certain company who bought Melbourne
freehold property six years ago, have just sold
out and made £86,000 on their bargain.
Mr. Downie Stewart is to be the new
leader of the New Zealand Opposition. The
Stewarts, by.the way, are all pretty “downy.”
Melville, M.P., declares that “none of
the Ten Commandments are of much use while
the present N.S.W. Government is in office.”
“Uncle” Abigail is “coming down” on
the bogus mining companies. Let us trust that he
will soon come down on the bogus “ banking ”
companies.
Germany and England are somewhat at
variance about Battenberg. It is a tremendous
indictment of royal institutions that they should
bicker about such vermin.
In the course of time the ownership of
land in Australia will approach the conditions,
which obtain in England.”—Baron de Bressi in,
“ Recent Impressions of Australia.”
With us tlie proprietorship of estates of
wide extent does not exclude—nay, rather it gives
facilities for —cultivation of the land.by agricul-
turists without resources of capital.”—More brass
from Brassey.
At the “ National ” Association’s meeting
at Sydney Town Hall last week, three cheers for
“The Australian Republic ” drowned the cheers
for the Queen. The Australian nation looms,
larger every time!
Parkes will visit Bathurst in the coming-
week. F. B. Suttor is home again, and something-
must be done, you know. Anyone who wants to
back Cortis against Suttor for next election i&
invited to put up his money.
There are about 1000 electors on the East,
Sydney roll whose only qualification is an annual
£lO 10s. membership-fee to one of the many clubs
situate in this constituency. This under an elec-
toral law which Parkes has a hundred times,
promised to immediately amend !
While ex-Judge Sir William Manning was
moving the second reading of the Probate Bill in
the Legislative Council (N.S.W.), the House was
counted out, Ex-Judge Faucett, who had' just,
taken his seat as a member, did not remain to
assist in “ making” a house. “Call this a back-
ing of your friends?” Call this standing by a
brother judge ?
Earl De-La-Warr has 100,000 acres of land
lying fallow and unused within two hours’ railway
journey of London. The land is fenced in and
guarded against intruders; meanwhile agricul-
tural labourers are going to the workhouse, and.
the import of foreign grain into England increases
by millions of bushels every year. How long, O l
lords, how long ?
In the Hobart Mercury, a paleolithic
organ edited by the wraith of a played-out mega-
therium, “Our Own Special Sydney Correspon-
dent ” described the recent Eletcher-Haynes/mraa
in terse early Gothic pointed style, and airily
alluded to the little man from Cork as “Mr. John
Haynes, member for Orange. ” How many a shaft
at random sent, etc., etc.
The Queensland monopolist has a near way
of disfranchising obnoxious employees. On one of
the sugar plantations there were about one hundred
men who declared against Griffith, and intended
voting for the Opposition candidate. These hun -
dred men were removed the other day to a remote
plantation belonging to the same person, and will
thus be unable to vote at all.
Psalmyell Griffith and his lieutenant,
Bulcock, says the Cairns Chronicle, are the only
property-owners about Queen-street, Brisbane,
whose tenements are let to Chinese. Naturally
enough, therefore, Griffith isn’t quite so sure about,
the expulsion of the Chows as MTlwraith is. If
the latter carries the day Griffith will lose a high
weekly rental and a reliable tenant.
Lord and Lady Carington have gone to Nor-
folk Island. Were the rusting gyves in that one-time
hell-on-earth endued with life, there is not among
them any which could tell of a more shocking or
unjustifiable deed committed in the name of
British law and justice than the deed by which
Governor Carington has irrevocably damned his
name for all time in his capacity as an adminis-
trator of the Crown’s last remaining prerogative.
Apropos of tlie N.S.W. member for Mait-
land, Thompson, insisting the other night upon
Mr. M‘Elhone’s words being taken down and then
not knowing what to do with them, Mr. Speaker
Onslow, of the British Commons, frequently
threatened to “name” a member if any disturb-
ance arose. “Sir, sir!” he would exclaim, “sir,
I must name you.” On one occasion he was asked
what would be the consequences of putting such
a terrible threat into execution. “The Lord in
Heaven knows,” he replied, “ I don’t.”
Alfred Miller alludes to the Australian
natives who recently welcomed Purves to Sydney
as “exiled protectionists.” Apropos, the reason why
Alfred Miller is a Freetrader of the intense
Haynes’ brand of Freetrade is because he himself
is ail “exiled protectionist.” He was “exiled”
at last election from South Sydney, where he first
posed as a “ protectionist ” and then went dog on
his party through paltry personal spite. There's
no zealot for a new cause like your renegade from
an old one. A traitor is compelled to show his
ardour for the cause of his new masters.
Dr. Langridge, of Georgetown (Q.), has
discovered a black leper who has had one of his
hands and both of his feet rotted clean off by the
awful disease, communicated to his camp by
Chinese—the loathsome wretches whom Parkes
“ prefers to Protectionists.” And here we would
remark that in that Parkesian preference is a
statement of the whole issue between Parkes (the
importer of nigger compositors) and tlie Aus-
tralian party. His crowd say in their hearts :
Let us have slave-labour, or, in default thereof,
the products of slave-labour ; the National party
say : “ Australia and all the work required in it
for the Australians.”


The New South Wales Loan.
PARKES (to London Money-lender); “YOU SUE, WE OE THE FOREIGN-TRADE COLONY ARE ABOUT TO ENTER UPON ANOTHER ERA OF PROSPERITY, AND
WE WANT YOU TO LEND US THE MONEY TO DO IT WITH,”


A Leaf from a Civil Servant’s Blotting-Pad.


She wrote: “My heart is heavy when I think of the
many miles that lie between us, and I can scarcely believe
that you are so distant from me.” He intends taking
home a welcome and has decided on getting it at Bray
Bros., 402 and 404 George-street, for next to a charming
gown or headpiece, nothing will please a lady better than
good China and Glass, and Bray Bros, is the popular
depot.
FRECKLES
can be effectually eradicated by
tne use of Clements’ Frecklebane.
Frecklebane is the only reliable cure. Perfectly harmless.
Post free from the inventor, F. M. Clements’ 141 King
Street, Newtown, N.S.W., for 2s. lOd. N.S.W. stamps or
P. 0.0. Sold by Washington Soul and all chemists.
Beware of worthless imitations.*
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality- is exceptionally good, and tbe price very low.*
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED
Established 1853.
Are as usual showing the largest and
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low price!
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED
Special attention is called t 3 the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru-
ments :
mil and UTSS PIANOS,
The Wonderful VISTSE PJAMOS.
THE BEAUTIFUL TON! or co.
™ A «
S2TEY & Co, American
iy day ,
o part c!
Mice of t!
Now and improved models of other- dreams „
just received, also an immense asi beings, have
ment of new and popular musicj-bemselves wh
Uow race thre
m out. H
\e himse'
in to b;.
fe or
Ilustrated catalogues mailed on ' but
enquirers are reefuested to give SOME f, EA of
the class of instrument required so as tonsure
receiving a suitable reply.
W. H. PALING ft GP-, W,
35S GEORGE STREET, three Doer bom G.P.O.
Better Value cannot bt!
Obtained Eisewi
Society
The Archbishop of Canterbury—a meek and
lowly Apostle, with a penchant for giving garden-
parties to dukes and duchesses —has made a
pilgrimage to the East End of London, in order
to gain some practical notions of real poverty, and
how to suppress it in a Christian way. After
talking the matter over with several members of
the aristocracy, the Archbishop comes to the con-
clusion that early matrimony is at the bottom of
the trouble. Young men in the courts and alleys
get married before they have means to support a
proper establishment. The Archbishop was given
to Understand that hundreds of fathers of families
in the slums possessed no freehold or leasehold
property, and didn’t comprehend the meaning of
tile term “ balance at the bank.” And the painful
results of these hasty and improvident unions,
said the Archbishop, “made his blood run cold.’’
Pass the lute
A certain N.S.W. gold-mining company
always gets a big yield for the month immediately
preceding the annual meeting. During the other
months the results recorded are most unsatis-
factory, but the manager, somehow or other, in-
variably contrives to scratch up some encourage-
ment just as the directors think of winding up the
concern. A well-known speculator gave notice at
last annual meeting that ha would move that in
future “the annual meetings, being so satisfac-
tory, be held every month.”
* * •
For a long period a neglected inland
N.S. Wales parson had to subsist on a collection-
plate of wretched threepenny-pieces. A few
months ago the local bank-manager was elected a
churchwarden, and now, when the plate circulates,
the elect, whose intense respectability prevents
them from dumping down coppers with a blood-
curdling thud, always give, when they give anything
at all, not less than sixpence per head. The cause
was, of course, assigned by the parson to “the
goodness of Divine Providence.” To the money-
changing churchwarden, however, this happy
alteration is really due : he sent all the three-
penny pieces, when banked, on to the head-office
in exchange for larger coinage. Now, if you
shook the town upside down you would not find
in it one threepenny piece.
• * *
In Scotland, wc read, 157 post-offices are
in houses licensed for the sale of liquor—viz., 28
inns and 129 grocers’ shops. Now, suppose Post-
master-General Roberts, C.M.G., who made his
fortune in a public-house, carried to its logical
issue the present N.S.W. system of conveying
newspapers free by post, so as to make it include
free postage of bottles of gin, rum, or whisky ;
and simultaneously the Scotch system of post-
offiee-cwm-grog-shanty were encouraged, what a
gorgeous future would this not open up for the
speculative publican ! “Go to the mail-bag and
get a bottle of schnapps,” will be the bonifacial
command of the future, and the demijohn of
Bourbon will be divested of its postage-stamp and
robbed of its address, and diverted into the in-
terior of the profane and ungodly.
* * #
H. R. Harwood is now in Sydney in dis-
guise—behind a full beard. Which reminds one of
that old time when Harwood and Marcus Clarke
drew the polished rapier on one another. Marcus
wrote an article in the Melbourne Herald, in
1874, saying that the local Theatre Royal people
were about to “select the Princess of Trebizonde
for mutilation,” i.e., to produce it at Melbourne
Opera House; whereupon Harwood and Co.
brought an action against Winter and Co., and
got Id. damages. At the trial, Marcus avowed
the authorship, and admitted that Harwood had
asked him in the street if he had written the
article complained of, and he said “No.” Justice
Barry, before whom the case was tried, was very
severe on Clarke for this denial. He said that
Marcus’s duty on the occasion was to say to Har-
wood, “You are an impertinent fellow to ask me
such a question. I leave you without giving you
an answer.” Higinbotham, who defended, said
that Clarke might just as well have admitted the
authorship as talk in that way. While this
“ barney ” was going on, Clarke slipped round to
the Public Library and got Boswell’s “Life of
Johnson,” and pointed out to Higinbotham the
passage where Samuel told Boswell that the author
A SISYPHEAN TASK
“WHY DON’T YOU WASH YOURSELF, MY MAN?”
"OH, I TRIED IT ONCE, BUT IT’S NO USE. YOU GET DIRTY AGAIN."
of the letters of Junius would be perfectly justified
in denying the authorship. Rig. read this to
Barry, but Sir Redmond said he didn’t look on
Johnson as an authority on morals, the doctor
having declared that Prior’s poems ought to be in
every lady’s boudoir.
* *
An article in Fairplay of 17th February
has caused much joy in Australian shipping
circles. It relates to “ Daniel Quilp,” the well-
known captain of a popular Australian liner, and
goes for Daniel tliusly :
“ It happened that Daniel commanded a transport
during the war in Egypt, for which, like other com-
manders, he received two medals. Each coat he pos-
sesses has tlie ribbon carefully attached. ‘ What decora-
tions do you wear may I ask ? ’ enquires a lady. ‘ For
service in (!) Egypt,’ calmly replies Daniel. Everything
that is done on board the steamer commanded by Quilp
is, according to him, done by himself. Here is a speci-
men of the conversation at breakfast. After the usual
morning salutations, I ask, ‘ Shall we make a good run
to-day, do you think ? ’ ‘ Well, about three ninety. I
should have done more but I don’t want to “ drive ” just
now,’ answers the infallible. ‘ Particularly good, this,’
observes my left-hand neighbour, who is assiduously get-
ting the last scraps of a grilled bone. ‘ Yes,’ remarks
Quilp, ‘ I insist on it that no man afloat has better cook-
ing than I have.’ After a variety of. topics my wife, who
sits opposite, says. ‘ W T e are all longing for a dance, Cap-
tain Quilp ; when do you think we shall be able to have
one ? ’ ‘ To-morrow night probably, and I can assure .you
that before we get home I’ll give you half-a-dozen of the
best balls you ever attended.’ ”
* * *
On a North Queensland goldfield situated
in that auriferous Faraway which lies beyond the
alligator-line, the Government is represented by
one belated official and two policemen. The
official acts as magistrate, registrar of cradle,
altar, and tomb items, gold-warden, clerk of petty
sessions, to say nothing of being the petty ses-
sions himself, inspector of stock, collector of dog-
assessments, municipal council, divisional board,
marsupial board, educational board, several other
boards, and chief of police ; and at times he is
liable to lose himself amid these multifarious Jobs
and doesn’t know exactly what function he is on
at the moment. More than once he has _ given a
certificate of death to a drunk and then fined the
weeping survivor, at other times he has sued a
dog for non-attendance at school, and has issued
a stern order that a child should be destroyed for
not wearing a collar with the name of the owner
legibly inscribed thereon. But the worst scrape
of his life was achieved last month. He was en-
gaged in hitching a couple together in the
bonds of joy, and had got half through
the ceremony, when the senior - constable
urged him to come along and fine a
drunk. The junior private ofj the force
was holding the prisoner outside, and as the
sinner was m a violent state and there was no
place to put him in, it was necessary that he
should be summarily dealt with. So the Registrar
told the semi-attached couple to hold on a minute
while he annihilated the criminal, but when he
came back he discovered, to his horror, that they
had departed on their honeymoon. This, as the
functionary sadly remarked when he began to re-
cover from the shock, was a stupendous go, and,
feeling that his billet was at stake, he despatched
the senior policeman in one direction and the
junior in another, with orders to capture the pair
at all hazards, and bring them back that they
might be legally and morally hitched. But they
were not to be found. The large, moist constable
tore through highways and byways, and up hills
and down dales, and the smaller and drier officer
dashed through hotels, and gullies, and swamps,
but the half -married couple had vanished as com-
pletely as if they had been properly married or
earth had swallowed them. It was late at night
when the wearied and clammy chief officer gave
up the search, and plodded back to report him-
self, and as he turned into the solitary street of
the town he Came on a drunk woman and a still
drunker man, who were heaving bricks and
screaming at the general public. It was the
bride and bridegroom enjoying their honeymoon.
< * •
At the Mayor of Sydney’s recent welcome
to the Melbourne Liedertafels the visitors had
the monopoly in howling “ God Save the Queen,”
as the Sydney portion of the audience maintained a
solemn silence. Which shows that N. S. Welsh-
men do not love Victoria.
• *
It is the custom in all English houses for
a servant of the house to come in and take away a
guest’s clothes on his retiring to bed, bringing
them back neatly brushed and folded before he
gets up in the morning. This custom also pre-
vails in the leading Sydney clubs, and thereout
arose the following trouble. A gaunt Barcoo
squatter, newly made a member of the Pure
Merino Club, went to the races and won a heap of
money. He got paid on the course and slept that
night at the Club. Early next morning he woke
and happened to cast his eyes to the cnair where
he had left his clothes, but they were gone, not a
rag of them left, and all his money in the pockets !
“ Holy smoke !” he moaned—cleaned out! not a
stitch left! this is pretty sultry in a place like
this—l thought it was a swell club, and here lam
gone through, like it was a bush shanty. ” Then
he rang the bell wildly and told the waiter of his
loss. That individual never smiled—club-waiters
get used to strange things—and he explained the
circumstances. Then the back-blocker promised
the waiter a sovereign not to say anything about
it, and retired to bed again to wait for his clothes,
which came to hand without a threepenny-bit
missing.
* «, *
A Catholic priest in Southern N.S.W. has
just been very hard hit. At Easter it is usual for
the congregation to subscribe liberally towards
the maintenance of Father M‘Gillicuddy. On the
present occasion the official collector was unable
to attend, and a simple-minded Irishman was good
enough to undertake the duties. When Mass was
over, and the congregation had gone off to dinner,
the pastor enquired concerning the liberality of
his flock. He was paralysed to find that the
wooden-healed tyke who collected had deposited
every sixpence in the hospital-box in mistake.
His reverence, however, said nothing, but the
hospital trustees are still wondering why the
R.C.’s were so very charitable this Easter.
• • *
“ Richard Harris, died Feb. 13,1877, of
delirium tremens, aged 41 years.” This is the
inscription which an Atchison (Kas.) woman had
carved upon her late husband’s tombstone —a
shaft of granite whereon sits a big black dog and
about which is wound -from base to apex the
image of a snake as large as a man’s arm.
• * •
The synod of the Church of England is
now sitting in Sydney, and, to most people, it is
a marvel how they ever make the clergy stop
talking when once they get fairly going. How-
ever, it is done, and in this way. As soon as a
cleric has occupied the floor for a fair time and
shows no signs of stopping, the Bishop begins to
scrape his feet about on the floor and to clear his
throat very loudly. The Bishop’s feet make a
row like a garden-roller going over a gravel path,
and the hopeless parson always makes a hurried
and lame conclusion. But for this method a
synod would last a million years.
* * •
Some few years ago two prominent Jewish
citizens of a Western (N.S.W,) township resolved
on a trip to Sydney, and took their way to the
railway station with their wives and their children,
also their ox and their ass and their portmanteaus
and the rest of their belongings. One of them
was probably named Cohen and the other might
reasonably be called Moses. A crowd of citizens,
most of whom had a hereditary grudge at pork,
were present to see them off, and Moses laid down
a bulky carpet-bag in order to shake hands all
round. As he did so a long, low wail came from
the entrails of the bag, and a sudden scare spread
over the platform. Moses was obviously remov-
ing a surreptitious infant from the township and
Cohen was helping him in his inquity. There was
a louder wail and a longer one. Moses turned
ashen pale and fled 100 yards from the trunk, and
Cohen assumed the hue of an unhealthy vegetable
in the spring. Their friends fell away from them.
Mrs. Moses and .the little Moseses gave way to
tears, and the Cohens—ll of them—collapsed
against the wall in a fainting condition. _ Jlist at
this crisis Sergeant M‘Faggart made his appear-
ance and collared Moses, v r ho was in a pitiable
state, and then, holding his prisoner with one hand
lie opened the bag with the other. One wild
scream issued from the lower part of it as he did
so; then there was a moan, a profane swear, a
sound as if someone was taken bad on the cold deck
of an ocean steamer, and a silence which might
be inspected with the naked eye supervened. A
tooth-brush and a night-shirt were strewn on the
platform by the relentless policeman, but there
was nothing else to be found and he reluctantly
let go his hold of the back of Moses’ neck. Then
the train came along, and Fred. Millis,. ventrilo-
quist, got on board to accompany the wilted Heb-
rews to town and amuse them on the way.
* * *
We rise to draw attention to an odious
insinuation in bricks and mor.tar. Near the
Royal Park, Carlton '(Vic.), is a residence named
High Ham, which, we submit, is an insult to the
human organ of comprehension and a 12-roomed
degradation to the Anglo-Saxon race. The only
thing which surprises us is that the owner didn’t
call it Parkes Villa right away.
*• • •
The Sydney Press rises to remark with
much astonishment that Pasteur’s agents, M.
Loir and Dr. Germont, cannot speak English.
The devil of it is that Minister Abigail can’t
speak English either. What are we to do ?
The good Archbishop went abroad
To View the starving poor
(A Carriage took him, Praise the Loafcl !
From Lambeth Palace door) ;
He fouiid them badly off for “ togs ”
Aild sliigiilarly Ran ‘
Their kennels scarcely fit for dcfgS—
He shuddered at the stehfe;
He Wept to think that Christian ffieri
Possessed rio easy chair,
Arid lived hi fetid feVer-dert,
And got ho change df air ;
He blushed to see theffi half resigned
To such itnwliolesoffie lives"-"
It made his blood run cold to find
That most of them had wives.
A poor man married seemed to him
A spectacle most v ile —
Jane ought to wait until her Jim
Gould live in proper style ;
A babe at beggared mother’s breast
He V/ondered td behold
Tlie gddd Archbishop has confess’d
It liiade his blood run cold.
He Cast his holy eye AlxAe,
And twiddled, too, his thumbs ;
What right had Ctipid, god of LbVe,
Td “do” the Lohdon slums,
Ahd shobt around those little darts
Which passions warm inspire ?
WHat right had “ unemployed ” with hearts
Ahd better-class desire ?
That puzzles us. We cannot say
Why lieedy people wed,
Aild struggle oh, frond day t,o day,
. When huffian hope is dead.
Perhaps they move on Nature’s plan—
. She takes no count of gold—
For every maid there is a man,
And young blood won’t run cold.
If Jimmy waited for his Jane
Until he made a pile,
Jehoshaphat! it’s pretty plain
He’d wait a doosid while;
For, after working all his life
In vain attempt to save,
He’d have to take his girl to wife
Beyond the silent grave.
The shocked Archbishop journeyed back
To Lambeth Palace straight,
He kissed his wife with ardent smack,
And goodly fare he ate ;
He snuffled Grace, and blessed the Queen,
Then into bed he rolled-
But, if he dreamt of what he’d seen,
You bet his blood ran cold.


[?]
84<$ Macquafie-strerit North; Sydney, Aprii 25, 1888;
My Dear M6O rap,in da , —Lord and Lady Caririgtori have
HetAkeri theiriseives to Norfolk Islarid, a plrice \Vhere
(this, 1 ani tolJ, is really' true) there is riot one sdiitriry
person named Smith: hast Friday night his Lordship
Presided St the animal irieetirig Of the Sydney Young
H'oirieri’s Christian Association, an organisation which; I
riiri told, he took a chief and enthusiastic part iri friuridirig
In England—it is said, indeed, that his rimudris iriHou'rs iri
this triily rioble \Vovk had. iio sriiall share in making it
ibkriiuteJV' rieriesSris trir hii'A to recruit his energies in the
hiildei' arid less tvyirig atiriospheve of Australia. It is
hldeed nice to find hiiri still pursuing the sanie path of
public usefulness which when in the derir old iriotheV
country he so assiduously trod.
It is ruirioUred that Haffy Caririgtori’, while at Norfolk
tslanAi iriterfis negotiating ari extensive eiriigration of
scio'As of the British aristocracy- to the old cdrivict
’PristrieSs.. Norfolk island—about Which I have full iri-
friririation froiri an official who was lately there—is ri
Sleepy old place where the inhabitants rire So good that
they 7 respect everything’, evrin those of the nobility who,
because they faitte iri with the Conqueror, Always get
their Hriai-d free at Government Bouse. There is, a strorig
fi rivodr of old-time England attached to it yet. The nrime
of the chief lriagistrate; for instance, is Seyniour Buffett,
'the first half of which is most comforting ; and, as another
lririteriril advantage, the strringer who marries an islrind
girl, and settles down in her country, gets 12 acres of
land given in. This, I aril afraid, is a good deal
iriore than is possessed by litost of tlie peers who visit us
hi these dri) s, arid tlie descendants qf the Crusaders
'bight do Worse triad settle down orijhis little spot of land
do grow oriioris arid kill pigs. But however tlie emi-
gration scheme may 7 turn out, there can be little doubt
that Lady Carington will enjoy her visit. The simple-
minded islanders wear boots tliat are obviously home-
made, and other things to njriteft, arid the.y are
prepared at all times to fall doiVn and worship a
lovely presence with nice clothes and pretty hair;
and amid these surroundings Lady Carington’s joy-
ous smile will he seen like a ray of sunshine. Her gentle
influence; trio, Will elevate the "native clod and make him
Aspire after higher things, and she will leave her foot-
print upon the institutions of tlie island even as Bis
Excellency leaves liis yawn behind him in the theatre.
There has been much heartburning among people who
were omitted froiri the irivitations to the recent entertain-
irients At Sydney Governirient House, hut I ani sure.it is
childish to blairie Lord Carington; for lie leaves such
iriatters to Mr. Wallington, and Mr. Wallingtori leaves
them to his assistant, and the assistant probably leaves
them to the butler or the assistant-footman ; anyhow, I
am quite certain that the Prince of Wales’ crony doesn’t
lie awake worrying himself lest by an oversight Mrs. Job-
kiris, of fhe public-house', slloula be affronted. But no
'dVeifsigrit criri ppssibly take place with regard to-sonie
people. For iristaffee, I aid told that Lady Caring-ton was
greatly airiused the other day by the “push” of a fat and
fekrful person in a purple dress and a green bonnet, who
wears kiss-curls and constantly gives great vulgar enter-
tainments attended only by people who, after eating and
drinking and dancing, go off and talk about their hostess.
This good lady waddled up to the Governor's wife with :
“Oh, dear Lady Carington, how well you are looking!
By the way, I am sure Mr. Wallington must have made a
mistake. He hasn’t sent me a ticket for the ball, and yet
1 have called regularly.” Lady Carington js too good-
natured to snub such people—possibly she looks upon
them as part of the cross which she has to bear during her
sojourn in the City of the Beautiful Harbour—and so ri
ticket was sent. •
You will be sorry to hear of the death, in Russia, of Mr.
Miklouho Maclay, whose charming- wife (daughter of old
Sir John Robertson) for the second time in her shril't life
becomes a widow. IhC risrietic 1 little “Baron” was not
much liked in Sydney, chiefly because people didn’t know
him well; and he being entirely devoted to his scientific
pursuits as his w-ife was devoted to him, lived a solitary
sort of life at Watson’s Bay, where lie kept in pickle a
arge collection of human skulls \sth tlie brains inside.
One day he took several of us to his “biological station ”
and exhibited liis horrible spoils, which lie took out of the
glass jars and lovingly caressed. At the sight of them
I felt ready to faint. The Baron used to complain
bitterly of the ignorance and stupid prejudice displayed
with regard to him by a large section of Australian society*.
“People hate me,” he used to say, “because I am a
Russian” —which I am afraid was more than partially*
true. Mr. Maclay avris a genuinely able man, and not the
humbug a lot of people in Australia were fond of painting
him. He risked his life in scientific research, and when
found by the Russian expedition despatched in search of
him, he was almost dying from hardship. His standing in
Russia was such that the Czar granted £4OOO to pay for
the publication of his travels.
That pretty little bride now doing a honeymoon tour in
N.S.W. and Victoria, is married to a divorced individual
whose first matrimonial venture lives in the same city
where tlie newly-married pair will settle down ! It must
be decidedly awkward—such a thing as that! The first
wife is a pronounced cocotte. She ran away from her
husband twice, each time with somebody else, and refused
to he taken back—hence the divorce. The husband be-
haved splendidly all through the miserable business. Talk
about men not being good enough for women ! Tlie way
in which some women behave behind their husbands’
hacks is enough to make good angels weep and had angels
chuckle.
I have heard so many masculine taunts about the size of
women’s feet that I am delighted* to be able to point out
that the biggest pair of feet I ever saw are in the posses-
sion of a certain gallant young officer of the N.S.W’.
Military forces. I?his grifitieiriari’s fririt will be a iriattrir of
history aiifl bis boots Will stlfely be deposited ift tHe
Museriiri—that ife tO say, if fdorfl can be found for then!
there without rerilovihg tHe whale’s skeleton: ft is
certainly very ungraceful fOr a girl to have largO feet; but
all the same, I consider it extremely nieamfor uieii td
eternally make such things the subject Of nasty fenidrks;
Women are more cHafifcflßle; i renieiriber that one of thb
handsdittest wdirien t evrtr sAW ih Sydney— the Lady G&y
Blanker Of lief tube—fart Off with A nian \fhdse fertt
haVe lrteasrtrrtd fourteen and a-Hriif inches from his heel
the erid of his big-tOe rtail!
1 see that Sir John Robertsdri, while speaking the other
day of New South Wales and Victoria, asked “how could
a loving nlother be jerildus Of lief haridsonle daughter ?”
Sir John iriust hafrt lived dll tlieSe years to very little
jhirpdse gOcialiy , if he does nOt know that \fe hdve ferity
Of irtothefs with groWri-tq) daughters wild are sd jedldus of
the iattef thrit they take cafe defer td be in the same towii
and, above all, rievef to be seen in the same ball-room
with them. However, Sir John, though he occasionally
says nasty foolish things, now and then gets off a very
wise one. The gallant old knight is the despot of the
Reform Club. I am told thdt his lightest Wofd is regrirdet!
there as Id# which dariridt be adjJCrticd against. Somebody
once told rile tMt -filed Mr; Gedrgri Thdfiitdri #as jJu*
irtt'O tile iiegisldtive Courted lie irtet Sir John On
tlifeshold Of the rtiub arid, iri reference to sonie feniark
made by the lattef, put his finger to his mouth rind play-
frilly said “Muiri 1” “Muni!” ejaculated Sir Johri to the
bystander, “do yOri herir wlidt he sriyis ? Munlni is a
splendid wirie and we’fe gdirig td hdve two crises at old
Thdfritort’s experise-.” Arid sd they had; •
1 read that Mrs. Garrett Andersdri, the accofriplished
English lady physician #ho recently visited us here iriakeS
rid less than ten thdrisand a yerif by her profession; of twd
thirds as nirieh as Australia's hest-knoWn srirgdon, Mr.
Fitzgerald, of your city-, is believed to erijop. This should
Stiiririlate drib Sex td activity iri the field of medicine. Sd
fef there ii brit die lady student at Sydney Uriivefsity,
rind she—Miss Berne—lias been cdurrigediis enough td gd
. through three years of lief coufse withorit arty _ other
Woman td keep her in couriteririride. ,1 an! told that
though Miss Bertie never displays tlie slightest eiriotion
Under what td riiost wonleri would be terribly trying
circumstances; Her preseriCe greritly embarrasses the pro-
fessors and their yoring nieii., I really believe that men
are ever so much More bashful than we afe.
I can faintly imagine tip grief which Mr, Edward
Bee’s death niust have CriiVse'd to liis family and intimate
friends. I waS privileged to make his acquaintance years
rigo as a fellow-passeriger iri the San Frriricisdo niailbdat;
And niust sri.V that lie ( wis one .of. the kindliest-natured
rilen 1 ever knew. How well do I remember the merry
- evening when in the “City of New York’s” social-hall v,&
tided a certain niiddle-aged New Englander, who had made
money in the mines, before judge and jury for the crime
of snoring. The miner was a rough dianiond whom no-
body seemed to know, and he; poor felloA, was at first
made the butt of tlie ship. Mr. Bee, as the only barrister
on board, prosecuted him, with a ferocity which I am
sure he could never have shown had the trial been in
earnest. The prisoner was, of course, found guilty by
the jury of 12 .ladies (amongst wlioip, by tlie way, was
Miss Ada \Vard who has, just returned to Australia) and,
as it had .somehow leaked out that he was rich, he was
sentenced to find “ champagne for the ship ’’—the conso
quence being that every One had a bottle of wine at dinner
that evening. “ Is that all ?” asked the poor minerwhen
sentence was pronounced by Judge Pickersgill. I am
sure the miner's rlti nxte popularity on board was in no
small degree owing to the good nature of Mr. Lee, who
often said to us, “You, perhaps, don’t know people of his
sort as well as I do. T am sure he is a good fellow.” And
ho he proved to be', and when his voyage came to an end
we were heartily ashamed of having left him out of all
Our parties and amusements to, mope bn board by himself.
And 1 shall never forget the day when, while going up
the street in Sail Francisco, we met the Australian lucky
miner with bis “store-clothes” on, and big fold-seams
down the legs of his light-grey trousers, and coat-sleeves
which cairie down over his knuckles ; and didn’t he just
look nervous as he bowed to us ! The last time I ever
spoke to Mr. Lee was at the top of the elevator leading to
Faber’s photographic gallery over the Hibernian Hotel!
fie seemed a little near-sighted, and when he saw in the
mirror right in front of him the reflection of the parlour
opposite he naturally enough walked into the plate-glass,
broke the rim of his hat, and so bumped his nose that he
got no picture taken that day. These are paltry recollec-
tions, but they are all I have to offer as a souvenir of one
of that rare species of gentlemen who are considerate to
all women, rich or poor, young or old, good or bad.
Sir Daniel Cooper has recently been taking great in-
terest in the subject of cookery and assisting in the for-
mation of an English training school for the purpose of
teaching young ladies how to prepare food for consump-
tion by gluttonous Man. I can quite understand Sir
Daniel’s interest in the matter if his experiences have
been anything like those of a certain other high-and-
mighty personage who used to relate, with much gusto,
that just after he got married, 40 years ago, in Australia,
his lovely bride instead of putting the cabbage into boil-
ing-water put it over tlie fire in cold-water. Of course
the longer she kept it there the tougher it got. The pair
are now disgustingly rich, and just to look at her in the
carriage j'ori’d tHihk she’d always been a most proficient
cddK iri frill practice.
Did you ever in all your life before see such an adver-
tisement as this, which appeared last week in the Herald ;
“ Jones.— ln memory of my dear husband, Richard Jones,
who died at —, George-street. Dead but not forgotten.
Inserted by his loving wife, K. 11. Davis.” How nice it
must be for Ml’. Davis !
A rather humorous contretemps befell a certain friend
of mine the other day. An acquaintance took him with a
party of others into the country for a week’s kangaroo-
shooting on the station belonging to the father-in-law of
the organiser of the excursion. When they arrived at
9 p.m. all the family were in bed, and “Tom” represented
to his friends that it would be a splendid surprise for the
“old man” to wake up in the morning and find them
there. So they crept upstairs to various rooms that Mr.
“Tom” allotted to them, while he improved the occasion
by impressing them with stories about of the “old man’s”
wealth, and assuring them he stood a good chance of
getting a big slice of it when the “old boy pegged out.’
So they went to sleep to dream of the fun they
would all have when “ Tom” came into his money. They
awoke early next morning feeling very hungry after their
supperless sleep, and not having much time to spare
they hurried downstairs for breakfast. They found
the place deserted. Not a soul appeared anywhere ;
no servants; no family ; no anything or anybody ;
not even a tame cat. They gathered on the broad veran-
dah and began to think they would have to kill their kan-
garoo before they could expect a mouthful to eat when
they espied a little distance off a ramshackle lean-to, from
which they smelt with the keenness of hunger something
that suggested the cooking of a meal. They crossed over.
An old man, bent with age, begrimed with dirt, and
miserably clad in remnants of ragged garments was raking
out the ashes from a fire, utterly oblivious of them and
unheedful of their wants. They looked at him for a
moment and one of them addressed him. “ Well, Cookie,
what time does old Mac turn out ? We’re in a hurry
rind Want soirie breakfast.” fhe ancieiit oiie tUrtied
slowly round and as slowly answered, “Tin him !” They
went away without another word and posted back to toWri
with the dejected “Toni,” betWeeh whoni and tlie mem-
bers Of that karigarooirig party great cOOlriess hris arisen;
It is reported rilsd that “ old dookie,” Who is immensely
rich, has nlade andther Will:
fhere have lately beriri priitri a miniiier Of Cases ih
Sydney in which young ladies have been more anxious to
Settle their bills by marriage than to settle themselves iri
life, and so many men have had to pay accounts mil up
Under their wife’s nlaiden nanle, that sddii nieri
Will not iriarry at rill; A frierid of niirie, HoW :
eVer, suggests ri reniedy. if every nian iiisisted
lipon his gdirig tlirodgh tlie insolvency (loiirt;
rind getting Her certificate previdvls td being led to
the altar; He need have iio fear df siibseqiierit trouble with
the horrid lawyers, indeed, I think iio clergyman
should be allowed to niarry any wonian who did not
possess such a passport to conjugal happiness. It
looks so greedy, too, to see the wonian take
the only piece of paper given on the occasion. Why
Should not each hrive liis arid her little dociinient ? Gil
the cdnclusSiori of the ceremony; the cieigyman eoiild then
give a Certificate to each, one of niarriage to the Wonian
aild drie Of irtsolveflcy to the liiaii, and they Cduld go home
Mjoicing and live happy ever afterwards. As custom and
law now stand; it is qriite a principle of morality with
some designing would-be mothers-iii-law to enCQut'age
tlieir daughters to angle for husbands and to contract
eliornious liabilities for millinery and jewellery on tHe
understanding that the hill Will be paid upon their mar-
riage, as ridditiorial baits by Which to hook their matri-
riionial prey. I krioW df at least two such caSes; arid I thilik
it very hard that a nian shOfild be compelled to pay for the
finery bj; riliich he is captured; It is too niuch like
11 nursing the piriioii ” that impelled the dart.
I hear that the niotto used by a certain very
wealthy Sydney family does hot, according to tHe
trriditioiiS df tlie ilerald's (Allege, legally beldrig
to it: It is Said thrit the faniily iii questiori calnlly ap-
propriated it, and wlieil tlie riglitfdl owner of the Efficient
rilliterritiVe phrrise, whlcli riiight mean ridthlng oi*
thing; cairie to Australia, he was considerably astonished
arid highly exasperated in ri well-bred wap at wlidt lie
Considered a piece of consummate impertirichfie; df
Course, the people of Australia niust regal’d all this Piti-
ful quibbling about heraldic devices and long genealogies
riiid aristocratic quarterings with a certain amount of
contempt, for it Can have no meaning to people who
deem personril nierit the only tiijle to lioriodr; At tlie
Bftnie time, if thrit little-niiiided faniily really want
ri liidtto or ri cckU-of-aniis, would riot a ciei'gynian Cou-
chant oil a field d argent do ?
Amy Sherwin has praised Sydney musical taste to ri
New Zealand interviewer. Quoth Aniy : “The kind df
ntusic that Will he listened to With apprecirition iri Sydney
is of a far higher class ” than Melbourne dr Adelaide will
listen to. “ Orchestral lririsic, too; is set on ri niuch higher
pedestril than formerly;” After tliis Sydneyites cannot be
io black as they are painted. Sydney artists endeavour
to depict the local cits as a pack of Goths who love raw
meat and Transpontine drama, —almost having to be
chained up to listen to ri soft classical adagio or a page of
Wagner. After such praise from Sir Hubert one is alnioit
inclined to think the fiefjltent ihattelitioii of Sydney con-
cert-goers is due to the musicians themselves—some of
Whom occasionally make one wish that when “music,
Heavenly maid ” was in the nursery, a kind friend had
mixed a little rough-on-rats in her milk and water.
If women like to have their gowns described, why ever
don’t they wear decent clothes ? At “ Faust,” the other
night, the circle was crammed with women, and riot one
of them but was a dowdy ! A niauve satin covered with
black Spanish lace looked pretty well, only its sense-
less wearer Had dabbed common white chrysanthemums at
either sleeve and on the corsage. A well-known lady
wore black satin cut blushingly. low and trimmed with
lace—with indescribably sad effect. All the drapery
made me think my eyesight was failing me. It was also
hopelessly dingy !
I hear that certain Australian titled and other ladies
who have taken shops in the West End, London, have a
grievance. Customers do not care a straw that the ladies
should own the shop, select the materials, and set the
fashions. Oh, no ! they want to be, as one of the distin-
guished shopkeepers recently remarked, “ actually-
waited upon by a countess.” And her presence in the
“ shop ” quintuples the takings.
I went to “ Sophia” the other night and sat opposite a
well-known Sydney “ woman of fashion,” who had gotten
herself up a l’lmperatrice. On her head she wore a
coronet of black velvet edged with diamonds and a mauve
plume at its left side. We aren’t used to head-dresses
just yet, so the effect was somewhat bizarre. The play;
went well and is fittingly' mounted, and I only noticed
one incongruity. The hell in the boudoir scene is a small
and painfully modern press-gong !
I heard a queer little story about a suburban doctor the
other day. Mrs. H. was indisposed. Doctor B. was
called in. He enters her chamber, where Mrs. H. is aulit
—throws himself down beside her on the pillows, twirls a
piece of heliotrope close to her eyes, and asks her softly if
she knows what the flower signifies ? Heliotrope means
devotion ! Tableau : He is ejected on liis little pink ear.
In a romantic farm by the “sad sea waves,” where I
lately rusticated in search of colour to start the winter
on, there “dwelt a little maiden,” pretty as paint, whose
golden hair Godiva would have envied. She had blue
eyes, rose cheeks, cream skin, dewdrop, kissable mouth,
and looked gentle as a moonbeam In the dusk one even-
ing she and I fraternised, and this is what ensued. “I
suppose you know everyone in Sydney?” “No—only
very few.” “Oh! Did you ever see a hanging?” “No!”
“ Did you ever know anybody who was hanged V (appeal-
ingly) “No!” “Oh! well, anyway, its offal nice to live in
Sydney*! Wouldn’t I love to see a tram accident!” I
hurriedly retired here, and left this disappointing dream
of loveliness to wink sweetly at the evening star, ponder-
ing, I suppose, over the pure pleasures of an inquest.
Our own Mrs. has at last been eclipsed by another
lady' who has also risen from the ranks. She was at a
dinner party lately and was extolling the charms of a cer-
tain gentleman of her acquaintance. Said she: “Yes,
my dear, he is perfectly delightful. Indeed, he is just the
kind of man with whom one could enjoy 7 a siesta.” (Con-
vulsions at the dinner table.) Of course the poor woman
meant to say 7 a tHc-a-tMe.
I hear that much annoyance is expressed in Sydney
at the haughtiness of a somewhat newly-fledged
Crown Land official who shakes hands with Queen’s
Counsel, but only gives two fingers to common solicitors.
Tlie regime terrible of the drtcollritte toilette is likely to
continue, the next fashion for full evening dress being the
old-fashioned Bertha, and that reveals more bony back—
scraggy “ salt-cellars”—and pipe-stem arms than tlie
present style. A woman in a Bertha looks like cold fowl
—it gives quite a “garnished” effect to feminine loveli-
ness. Still they wear it, for the rule amongst women is
“ If it’s the fashion it must become me.”
Mr. George Stuart, late Vice-Consul for America in
Sydney, has lately returned from New Britain, where he
has been acting as consul, fighting natives, and doing al
kinds of disagreeable things for the past year. He brings
back with him his faithful little black boy, who helped
him and shot one of the chiefs who attacked their wigwam
Otle night; Mr. StUart, Who has had a surfeit of saVage life,
came back with the intention of resuming his old position
of Vide-Gorisul here. But, alris! oile should not put any
trust either in princes or consuls. His position was
usurped by a stranger to the American flag, and Mr.
Stuart has returned to his native land (N.Z.) with hi*
heart full of indignation; and a firm conviction that, after
rill, Vice-Consulships, Government House; and ail the
attendant vanities are hardly worth tile yCal’s of iribOUt
lie has spent to Obtain then!. Ehe American flag has lost
a friithful and devoted sertarit in Mr. Stuart;
I ani going to nlake ri SilggeStidn to Mr. BignoicL Wheii
lie StrigeS great pdets—sdeh as Mr. Gilbert Eafker—He
dugHt td raise the eritfarlce-fde td the grillery. The other
rtight—when Mephisto iarighed his sirtistel 1 ; mocking
caehinnritioii—a laiigh that, George has got the grip of —
the gallery guffawed too !! Also, When Satan lihiped
across the stage, a loud rdar of laughter greeted him as if
it wris a superb piece of low comedy ! Also; when FariSt
clasped Marguerite to His breast iiitliat expressive embrace
at the close Of the third act; out df the gloom of Olympia
riaivie prolonged and plaintive kissing sounds! fhe Whole
liduSe coninienced to snigger add the curtain dropped oii
ri ridiculed tableau: Were I inclined to be cynical; 1
niig'ht say that the gallery opinion Was acute Criticism;
Tlie gods know Handsome George’s little foibles so well
And now for a medley nlade up of all sorts of things
that are running through illy head. Among coining
events is a marriage between ri Sydney literacy man Of
faintly poetic and dramatic tendencies, and tlie daughter
of a well-knoWn and Well-gilded though souiewhat soleitlh
Aiistralian neWspaper-proprietoi 1 . All the Melbourne girts
who have hair Hdw wear it loose ih iihitatioii of
Ldch’s datiglitefs. 'file djdney girls, ildWevef, don’t
to like this fashion and stick to the old Chinese style
Fred, says because tliey, tlie frishiortrihlds; aieFreetiridei'S:
Opaline is tile lieW tint. It is shot ill three distinct shades
Which give it Very milch tlie appearance of an opal-stone;
The Duchess of Hamilton has opeiled a butter-shop iii
Lortdoii. Is the day at Haiid, thefi; wheii the ladies of
Potts Poiiit will run cOlOriial-wiiie-Stores ? If so, some of
the leaders df fashion will be by lio means nialadroit Sit
Bottle-opening. A rieW fakliidn lias been introduced iii
five o’clock tea. The teapot is abolished, hilt each giiest Kris ft
perforated silver ball filled with ieri-leaves arid rittat'hdd to it
diiriin like ad inPnitesiriiai do’g-fastenei\ flieri he—oi'
she—receives A cup of boiling W ater and tlioilghtfulli'
drops the ball into it Until, a liquid is produced of suflv
cient strength and malignity to adapt itself to his Coiistfi
tutioii. Pale young curates and other Social triple (idis
who coirie purring round us in tlie aftei iiooiis eiijo’y tills
process. It is now the fashion at long dinners for gentle-
men to cliange tlieir places several times during tide
ei'eiiing—the company being thus “ shuffled” as it Wef'e
—"Which strikes nie ris, oil tlie Wlidle; a seiisible idea;
fours affectioiiritely, SAtihio Smith;
[interesting iteths of fasniohable intelligence inteiided
for this column, will at all tiriies be thankfully received
and acknowledged by Miss Sappilo Smith; Bulletin Office,
Psalm for Broken-Hill holders
“ I to the hills will lift iliy
Proiii Mhenhe doth cofffe mine aid/’
M. tiicibn Henry; of Sydney; lias befell
especially successful, hi applying Australian sub
jects to the decorative arts. Amongst other de-
signs is a particularly fine panel modelled by Mi
Henry for Mr. Norman Selfe. It has been repro
duced in terra-cotta, and represents an Australian
lyre-bird, so, adapted to_ the design of an aritefix
as to contain the riiain lines, of that of the pedi-
ment of the Temple of Egina, The conception
embraces the idea of “Advance Australia”
represented by the forward march of the lyre-bird
iri the act of stepping over a scroll upon which, is
written tlie word “Australia.” Behind the lyre-
form, outlined Ipy the, bird’s, tail,, rise’s the Austra :
lian min, while in front of the whole design are
waving-liM.es indicating water —the ocean which
cuts,off Australia from the rest of the, world and
which has enabled her to grow into a nation. The
whole idea is intensely Australian, national arid
patriotic, and is a good sample qf the work
capable of being inspired by the .Republican ideal.
Mr. Sutherland, the most incapable mem-
ber of the most illiterate and dunderheaded
Ministry ever known in N.S.W., was mildly
criticised in the Assembly the other night by Pre-
mier Parkes, who declared that the Minister of
Works had “ made a mistake.” Excepting in the
Evening News office Mr. Sutherland was never
known to make anything else, unless he drib-
bled wisdom unconsciously, so the statement
did not seem wide of the mark. Parkes’ gentle
remark, however, that his colleague was going on
as usual attracted a certain amount of attention,
and one gentleman who was present endeavoured
to bet with Messrs. Wall, Copeland, and several
others that the Evening News would develope
nto a fiery leader on the subject in its very next
issue. And so the event proved. The politics of
the News consist solely in keeping this one dismal
muddler in office on the strength of some ancient
personal friendship with the family of Bennett.
When a new Ministry is being formed its head
receives direct and positive intimation that
old Sutherland must have a portfolio or
the News will descend upon the Cabinet
in a heap. When tlie hoary blunderer
developes his customary inability to write three
consecutive sentences of decent English, and
proves utterly incapable of understanding any-
thing when it is explained to him 18 times over
and can’t even sit up and smile his fatuous smile
at a crisis without going to sleep, the News falls
like an avalanche on any one who ventures to
allude to his uselessness. All through his political
life “ Ilonest ” John Sutherland has suffered from
a chronic incompetence to pull his foot out of the
mud, and hasn’t known what to do with it when it
was out, but still he continues to be the sum total of
the News’s political creed, and now that Parkes
has ventured to remark that the sleepy old dullard
has “ made a mistake ” —and he might with jus-
tice have added that it was the only thing he ever
had made—the Evening Bennett ' instantly pro-
ceeds to prophesy the speedy downfall of that
frequent and energetic insolvent. The Opposi-
tion, it states, “ has hopes that it may lead to a
state of things intolerable to Mr. Sutherland as
an honest and capable administrator, and there-
fore, entailing his resignation. They know that
this would mean the speedy downfall of tlie
Ministry, which would, of course, give them an
opportunity.” It is the old talc of YVaterloo under
slightly altered circumstances. When the day of
battle comes, the Brummagem Wellington will
raise his voice and ask if Private Murphy is in
the ranks, and the Murphy of the Works Depart-
ment not being there the result will be chaos.
“ Cheek ” is the name of the hon. sec. of
the Newcastle (N.S.W.) Liedertafel. We expect
he’s a tenor, then.
The Americans have invented a new term
for dudes who wear corsets and talk girly. They
are now known as “sissies.” The pure-bred
“sissy” bathes in fresh milk and eats ice-cream
ill bed.


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmonium
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangl
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live
we will supply you with our Manufactures upoi
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, anc
intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverbe
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos.
2nd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
sth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
6th. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg,
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style,
Bth. Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
9th. The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
.:'7 _-Av
mm
■ mm
A.
o
-
BEALE PATENT NEW HIGII-ARM SEWING MACHINE
Special Qualities ana improvements.
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter ;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are wili-
ng to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
Mill®
SSSSjs
A- jSasto*;
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely, SUS-
PENDED in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
*t,hey get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
careful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments.
Catalogues and Price Lists Free by Post.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484 and 486 Geobgh Stbeet, Sydney.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison,
Doors open 7; Performance 7.30 ; Carriages 10.45,
FAUST. FAUST. FAUST. FAUST,
Mb. Geo. Rignold as Mephistopheles.
Miss Kate Bishop as Marguerite.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Open at 7.15. Commence at 8. Carriages at 10.20.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
PRINCESS IDA,
or,
_ CASTLE ADAMANT.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s.
R
OYAL STANDARD THEATRE.
FOURTH WEEK
OF
FRANK SMITH’S BURLESQUE COMPANY.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS OF
THE GREAT LONDON BURLESQUE,
VENUS AND ADONIS.
Most efficient Company, powerful Chorus, mag-
nificent Scenery. Popular prices—3s., 2s, and Is.
C
RITERION
THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
GRAND COMEDY SEASON.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.
LAST 2 NIGHTS
LAST 2 NIGHTS
of
LAST 2 NIGHTS
LAST 2 NIGHTS
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’S
SUCCESSFUL COMEDY,
SOPHIA
SOPHIA
SOPH I A.
Business Manager
Mr. Joe Davis.
B
OTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
r,
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert of
Well-known artists,
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest!—
Under the Conduetorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
A
SHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND
GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening.
The splendid Recreation Ground Band
will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
Coming Events:
April 28 —Summer Hill Bicycle Sports.
May 24—Manchester Unity of Oddfellows Fete.
Catering on Reasonable Terms.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
COOGEE PALACE, AQUARIUM, BATHS,
and PLEASURE GROUNDS.
Gigantic Success of the Palace Skating Rink.
The Great Swimming Bath, 100 ft. long.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Entertainments Every Afternoon.
Open from 10 a. m. to 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling. Children Half-price.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
Alhambra music hall,
George street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager ... Mr. H. Barrington.
MINSTREL SHOWS
GOME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
VOX POPULI.
AUSTRALIA’S QUEEN.
STILL the LEADING ATTRACTION in this
FAVOURITE PLACE of AMUSEMENT,
with a
NEVER-ENDING CHANGE OF ARTISTS.
NIGHTLY CROWDED.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls, Is., Balcony, 6d.
TATTERS ALL’S
UONSTEH CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
' “ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“Evening News.” Address, “Tattersall’s," care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery )
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, ose
for reply and the other for result of drawing,
Business Announcements.
Q
Sydney, N. S. W., Feb. Ist, 1888.
Marshall Brothets,
Gentlemen,-Not feeling well, I procured some
of Marshall’a “ Tonic Nervine,” having been ad-
vised to take it. The proof greatly exceeded my
expectation, and I am now thoroughly convinced
of its grand staying and strengthening properties.
Yours very truly,
fa)
Ex-Champion Oarsman of the World
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
W
E beg to notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES !
M. MELACHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. CADEMENO, CAIRO..
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIGARETTES, also FINEST BEANES of CIGARS,,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices !
a®" Note this Price !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the.
“SESOSTRIS” Brand—in Tin Boxes of 100, at,
SIX SHILLINGS EACH !
By buying from us you will save at leastj
25 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
11 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Savings Bank).
GBD.GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BBIAS FXFBS,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS G LDsOHMIDT & 00,
231 CLARENCE-STREET.
GBD.
GBD.
dS™ 8 # 8 r f arg ? Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
WHOLESALE ONLY RegUlar Shipmenta ooming forward
rpHOMAS BUCKLAND.
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln.
„ „ Langland’s Foundry Co., Melbourne, Vie.
Hotels
GLOBE HOTEL, Albury.
THE Undersigned, having become Lessee of
the above well-known Hotel, begs to inti-
mate to the Travelling Public that every atten-
tion will be given to the management to ensure
comfort and the very Best Accommodation pro-
curable in the colonies.
Private Suites of Rooms for Families.
The Cuisine Department will be under the
superintendence of Mrs. Solomons.
Sample Rooms, Billiards, Hot and Cold Baths,
Reading and Smoking Rooms. Magnificent bal-
cony and every convenience.
All Liquors best brands. N.S'.W. and Vic-
torian papers. Letters and telegrams promptly
attended to. Night porter.
L. SOLOMONS, Proprietor.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
Alfred Lister, Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies.
Replete with every comfort and convenience
modern times for the travelling public.
FOR SALE. —Two grand water frontsms,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Am3v
Bulletin Office.
A Great Reform.
(BY GARNET WALCH.)
If the man who causes two blades of grass to spring where
but one grew before is worthy of being styled a public
benefactor, some such title is surely the due of those who,
in this practical age, enable the purchaser of any article
to obtain it at first cost, without the intervention of that
bug-bear, the “ middle-man.” Hence, in giving a descrip-
tion of the flourishing undertaking now under notice, we
feel more than justified in combining with our remarks a
brief history of its founder. To begin at the beginning,
then, Mr. A. W. Feme was born in America, and went - to
London about the time the great “ Iron Duke ” was lying
in state ; served his apprenticeship in “ woollens ” in the
“ little village by the Thames,” from whence, about 19
years ago, he proceeded to New York, thence to San
Francisco, and so further round the globe to New Zea-
land, where he obtained an appointment immediately on
landing. He was soon after taken in as partner in a
lucrative concern where he was able to follow lago’s ad"
vice to Cassio, and put money in his purse. New Zealand,
however, did not long satisfy his ambitious nature, and he
moved a few hundred miles further on, to Marvellous
Melbourne. Here, at the outset, he troubled his mind
little about business, but, like most young men of his age,
fond of “ seeing life,” spent his ready cash pretty freely,
and eventually ran short of the “ sinews of war.” Look-
ing about him, he abtained an appointment, at a small
salary, in Messrs. Beath, Sehiess, and Co.’s warehouse,
with, as the firm plainly told him, no great hope of any-
thing much better in the immediate future. But so
thoroughly did he prove his value that in two weeks he
was made manager of the whole tailoring department.
Remaining in this position fora while, and accumulating a
little capital, he decided to start on his own account. He
had recognised the great want in Victoria of some one who
would supply the public with tailor-made clothes cut to
order, but at a price as low as that charged by the slop
manufacturer. He forthwith opened a shop in Fitzroy,
on the new principle, and this proving highly successful,
one establishment each in Carlton, West Melbourne,
Hotham, Richmond, Prahran, and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, and two in Emerald Hill, speedily followed.
About this time telephones were coming into vogue, and
Mr. Ferne ; seeing how Useful the new invention would be
to him, started the first private telephone exchange in
Victoria.- connecting his various branches with his dwell-
ing house, sh that from his breakfast-room of a morning
he' could Cohnflunieate with his subordinates. But the
overwork consequent upon this high-pressure rate of
business began to tell upon his constitution, and his
medical adviser counselled his trip to Europe. He de-
cided to sell out the entire eoffcerti, and readily found a
purchaser, befivg bound ovef not to open again for five
years within a hundred miles of the Melbourne Post Office,
under a penalty of £5OOO. Prior to leaving for the Old
Country, he fancied a visit to Ballalrat blight benefit big
health, and he therefore ran up to that city, which, as
our readers know, is a little—a very little—more than 100
miles from the General Post Office, Melbourne. This, and
the fact that the bracing air of Ballarat certainly
suited him, had the effect of postponing his sea-voyage,
and we next find him surprising the good folk of the
Second City in Victoria by the same style of things that |
had taken Melbourne by storm. A comparatively short
sojourn here sufficed to work up a prosperous business,
which, when leaving, he sold out at an excellent price.
On the eve of his departure, the high personal esteem
with which he was regarded was pleasantly testified by a
farewell banquet at Craig’s Hotel, attended by a number
of representative gentlemen. Arrived in London, Mr. Feme
started excellent establishments there, but, as soon as his
health was thoroughly renovated, was back in Victoria.
Prohibited by his agreement from touching Melbourne, he
again went a fraction over the hundred miles “nomin-
ated in the bond,” this time to Sandhurst, where —now
some six years ago—he started the London and American
Tailoring- Company, with which his name is at the pre-
sent date so honourably associated. In Sandhurst he
opened two establishments. Then, to acquire the latest
information in his line, and to extend his operations as
rapidly as possible, he travelled to America, opening in
New York, and from thence to London. During the next
two and a half years he visited the chief cities of Eng-
land, Scotland, Ireland and Wales, picking up experience
as he went—and to these places succeeded France, Italy
and Germany—passing through Egypt, both before and
after the war. Arriving once more in Victoria, and the
term of his contract not having expired he opened two
more establishments in Sandhurst. Here, as had been the
case during his earlier sojourn in Fitzroy, his popularity
caused him to be invited to stand for the local Council,
but his answer on each occasion was in the negative, since
he wished to devote his whole time and energies to the
study of his business. A single day after his five-year-old
agreement expired he re-opened in Melbourne, with in-
creased capital, provided by the Directors of his Com-
pany, bought out Mr. Charles Middleton’s two establish-
ments in Bourke-street and Gertrude-street respectively,
and is already, undoubtedly, doing the largest retail trade
in his line in the metropolis. The operations of the Lon-
don and American Tailoring Company are expanding
daily in Melbourne, and branches are contemplated, not
only in Sydney, Brisbane, and Adelaide, but in San Fran-
cisco and the chief cities of the Old World. The Lon-
don Head Office is in Basinghall-street, and the Central
Depot in Melbourne—in addition to two other places
in Bourke-street —is at the corner of the Eastern
Market —whereof more anon. Responding, the other
day, to a cordial invitation, we had ocular proof
of how the London and American Tailoring Company con-
duct operations, and gained an insight, we must confess,
into the reasons for the increasing popularity they enjoy.
We first inspected the factory in Lonsdale-street, to which
the orders from the various branches are forwarded, and
where they are carefully made up from the cloth selected
by the customer. Every order, even of the smallest
nature, passes, we are told, through about twenty hands,
and necessitates some sixteen entries in the various books
kept for the purpose. At Lonsdale-street we found a
busy scene, but regulted with the utmost system. Here,
in ‘ one department, were “ Cutters ” ; in another
“Pressers”; in a third, “Trimmers”; while on the top
story were the .“Machinists.” Every garment we here
saw had been; cut to order, and a deposit paid on it. Even
the “ 3'-dollar pants,” or in other words, the 12s. 6d.
trousers, of which the Company make a specialty, were
all oto measure,” so that, by doing away with all inter-
mediate profits, and notwithstanding the heavy duty on
imported cloth, the Company can actually beat the “slop-
made ” articles in point of cheapness, while accurate fit is
guaranted in every garment. With such inducements,
who would patronise the “reach-me-downs” of old?
From Lonsdale-street we proceeded to the four Bourke-
street branches, noticing in each the elegant and costly
fittings, the electric-light chandeliers, the mirrors, the
telephones for speedy communication, and, above all, the
splendid stocks of cloth in every variety of most fashion-
able pattern. This refinement of modern style in decora
tion and equipment was most observable in the Chief
Depot, at the Eastern Market Corner (formerly the branch
Post Office) where, of an evening, the Wenham Light,
the Albo-Carbon Light, and the Electric Light vie with
each other,to forestall the glories of jubilee illuminations,
as they glow and glitter in reflected brilliancy from the
mirrors, plate-glass and gilding, lavishly yet artistically
bestowed at every point. And here a word of praise is
due to Mr. Leaves, of Hotham, for his four large-sized
figures, so admirably executed in silver on the outer
windows. “ Ptier spricht Man Deutsch” and “ Igi on
Parle Frangais ” were legends, showing how thoroughly
a cosmopolitan community is catered for,-while “ By ap-
pointment H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh,” and a similar
announcement with regard to Sir Henry Loch, proved that
the tastes of all are both consulted and gratified. Indeed,
framed in the windows is there not on the one hand a
letter from the Government House, Melbourne, stating
that “His Excellency is much pleased with the clothes
made for himself and Master Loch ; and, on the other,
another autog’raph communication from Messrs, “ John
George Deebleand William Beach,’’expressing their “ aston-
ishment at the marvellous celerity ” displayed by the Com-
pany in turning out, in six hours, a couple of suits that
gave the Renowned Champion Oarsman and his friend
“ every satisfaction.” Such testimonials speak for them-
selves." A rapid visit to the Gertrude-street Establish-
ment and our tour was at an end, leaving in our mind a
conviction that the London and American Tailoring Com-
pany, with Mr. Feme for their commander-in-chief, are
working a perfect’revolution in tjie retail tailoring trade
and are deservedly destined to achieve a world-wide
success.


K
O
S
c
T
U
s
P E
OF THE
HOMEWARD BOUND GOLD-MINING CO., Limited.
(To be Registered under the Companies Act.)
BATHURST: GOLD DISTRICT, OBERON, N.S.W,
bAI’ITAL, £60,000 in 60,000 Shares of £1 each. 20,000 Paid-up Shares to the Proprietors and Promoters •40 000 Shares
as Paid-up to 10s. per Share are offered to the Public, Is. per Share on Application and Is. on Allotment
(No Call is considered necessary, as the Mine has been self-supporting for the last three years, but should any further
amount be required, Calls will not exceed Sixpence v>Q " n —-
SYDNEY SMITH, M.P., Sydney.
CHARLES O’NEILL, M.1.C.E.,, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
WILLIAM CRABB, Chairman H.8.M., Oberon.
Bankers
) per Share, of which One Month’s Notice will be given.)
Provisional Directors:
JOHN HURLEY, M.P., Sydney.
Dr. BENBOW, College-street, Sydney.
T. J. MOORE, Auctioneer, &c., Oberon.
JOHN SCOTT, Bond-street.
COMMERCIAL BANK OF SYDNEY.
Solicitor :
C. J. O’CONNOR, Lyndon-chambers, Phillip-street.
Brokers :
HADFIELD, ALLAN, and Co., 90, Pitt-street, Sydney.
V W. HARVEY, 335, G'eorgo. ; street (Mining-Exchange), Sy
Sydney.
The Mine is situated li- mile from the town of Oberon, and consists of •twenty-four (2i4) acres held under Minin'*
Leases from the Crown. See Mr. A. P. Burtt’s report herewith for further particulars. “
To show their confidence in the mine the Proprietors agree to accept Shares as Payment, with the addition of
£llOO in cash on formation of Company, to pay for machinery already erected.
The amount of application and allotment money, viz., £4OOO, will, after deducting the £llOO to proprietors and
paying- usual floating expenses, leave sufficient Pash in hand to purchase the required pumping and windin'* o-ear and
keep the mine in full working- order until after the next crushing.
Their only reason for placing the mine before the public is "that they are unable to cope with the water on the
lower workings with their present appliances.
The eleven Proprietors (all practical miners) with their families, seventy in all, living on the property, have for
the last three years supported themselves in comfort, and have also purchased and erected a powerful 10-stamper
battery with a 12-h.p. engine and other plant out of the proceeds of their crushings. - .
Transfer of mine from Proprietors to Trustee acting for the Company, with Photographs of Mine, showing Bat-
tery, &c., can be inspected at the office of the Legal Manager, G. S. HADFIELD, 90, Pitt-street, Sydney
Homeward Bound Gold Beef.
Locality.—This property is situated one-and-half mile south of the township of Oberon, eighteen miles from the
Railway Station of Tarana, on the Western Line, 121 miles from Sydney.
Description.—The Company’s ground consists of a quarter of a mile along the course of the reef, with the usual
width. The country rock is soft granite, traversed by two main gold-bearing reefs, having a sirike approximately East
and West, with a southerly underlie of about 35deg. from the horizon.
Mine Excavations.—The more southerly of these, called Turner’s Reef, was worked some time since for a lineal
distance of 200 yards down to the water level (40 feet), with payable results. This reef is parallel to, and distant from
the Homeward Bound reef, 150 yards, which latter reef has been worked for a lineal distance of over 250 yards and to
a vertical depth of 70 feet, giving a height sloped away following- the underlie of reef of about 200 feet. The reef
above this level lias averaged a width of 10 inches, and given a return of 15dwt. per ton. At the lowest level the reef
standing in the bottom is over a foot wide, and the last crushing gave loz. per ton. The parcel of stone now °'oin<*
through the battery (50 tons) is expected to yield results fully equal, and from the appearance of the plates there ap-
pears little doubt that such will he the case. The water is no\f being raised by means of a “ horse-whip ” but is
rather too quick for that means of haulage, and before the mine can be deepened it is essential that pumping <*ear be
put in. The stone in these reefs consists of quartz with stains of Manganese and a little Auriferous Iron Pyrites
which appear to he inereasing in the bottom level. Two other reefs also outcrop on this ground to the north-west of
these main reefs, No. 1 having a strike N. 25deg. E. underlying East, with a width of 2 feet, showing- Iron Pyrites in
the quartz ; No. 2 reef, 250 yards south-east of No. 1, showing_a vertical quartz reef 2 feet thick.
Machinery—There is a very good crushing plant on the ground, consisting of a 12 h.p. portable engine driving 10
heads of stampers, with the usual mercury tables, &c.
Remarks.—The larger portion of the ground above bottom level having been sloped away, it will be necessary to
put down a new shaft to cut the reef at a deeper level, say 200 ft. vertical. This will require a winding and pumping
engine with a column of Sin. pipes, which should be ample for that depth. This will give backs, presuming the reef to
continue its present underlie, of over 300 ft. on the course of the reef. If this is done lam convinced an extensive and
profitable mine will be opened up. Another mode would be to bring in a deep adit crosscut from the Fish River
Which, in a length of 2000 ft., would cut the reef at a depth of 150 ft., and there is every probability of such crosscut ini
tersecting other auriferous reefs now hidden from view by surface deposit, which, in places, as shown in the shafts
already sunk, has been as deep as 50 feet before the rock was reached, but even were this done, the new shaft is a
necessity. I estimate the cost of winning and crushing the reef stone below the bottom level at 15s’. per ton, and esti-
mating the auriferous contents at 15dwt. only per ton, and the gold at 70s. per oz., the net profit per ton of stone would
be £ll7s. 6d., allowing for expenses of management, &c., a return of 150 per cent, on the outlay.
In conclusion, I would observe that I have seen few properties that, considering the easy and favourable nature of
the ground, the increased size and value of the reef at the deepest level, as compared with the upper workings, its con-
venient position and good supply of suitable timber in the immediate vicinity, offer such a legitimate opportunity for
the profitable investment of capital.
ALFRED P. BURRT,
Consulting Mining Engineer, Waverley, Sydnev.
June 25, 1887. J
N.B, —Mr. Burtt’s
Only three miners were employed in the working and sending up of the quartz, the other eight bein'* engaged in
keeping down the water and crushing stuff.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
HADFIELD, ALLAN, and CO„ 90, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY,
BROKERS FOR ’
Homeward Bound Gold-Lining Company, Limited.
Pease allot me Shares (or any less number), in the HOMEWARD BOUND GOLD-MINING
COMPANY, Limited. I enclose herewith £ being Is. per Share application money thereon. I agree
to sig-n the Articles of Association when called upon to do so.
Name in full
Address
Date
Usual Signature
Business Announcements.
£A*TpEfcßi)£
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to. request that Purchasers see that the Isabel an every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label\ Bottle anS
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; . Crosse and
Blackwell, London , <5rV. , &“c. • and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
** • iiu—iu—■—"«i ■ |"|.11| -».| —— mm —r —r —r innmrMrTri T-rrrf^F
Wholesale Agents: Montkfiore, Joseph & Co.: Davu> Cohks & C<£, Sydney!
BKUKTO N’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY 34 Pitt Street.
BRISBANE Edward Street.
MELBOURNE Spencer Street.
.
i.«U p.aputj
y&n
They fit perfectly, and arc
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried."
(Signed) Kane Roze.
THE
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Dorset
Will not split in the Seams
nor tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect Com-
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “ Y & N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 110,” in oval.
Three Gold Medals! 1
by all Drapers and Ladies’ Ontfitters.
White as the Driven Snow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Cleanser
GOLD-WATER SOAP.
Trade Mark—“ IMPERIAL."
All Grocers, City and Suburbs, Storekeepers.
The SYDNEY SOAP and CANDLE Co., Ltd.,
50 Clarence-street.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spencer-street.
YISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
will find all no odern improvements, such as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
room, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
and needle baths passenger elevator, electric
bells, telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not
to be surpassed, in Australia. Visitors can rely
upon being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate,
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BRIGHTON OB’ N.S W.
A T t^p CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinner-, Evening Parties, etc, are
served on the s hortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. having a most recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of The sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—,n fact, everyihing that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
. Bote at 1 o clock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
T7"ict©rla,.
The CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, is
the most fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
nail, Ladies’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
Baths. Beverages Iced.
Sku. E. Spiariij l [i.,
PROPRIETORS,
Late of
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN. N.S.W.
The PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, is the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEARING’S
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer i 9
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con-
sideration all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public Baths.
Alcock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out of
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
Invalids.
J. I. 1. Spring,
PROPRIETOR.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel is constructed on the most modern principles.
Large and well-ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydraulic Lift for Guests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor
FALLON’S GEORGE HOTEL, Albury.
THE above Hotel has unsurpassed accommodation for families and others. The proprietor will
spare no pains to make the comfort of visitors his special study. Opposite G.P.O. and Town
Hall. Private Sitting Rooms without extra charge. First-class Tables. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to.
GOOD STABLING AND LOOSE BOXES.
J. J. FALLON, Proprietor.
Business Announcements.
THE
“PLUM
RAZOR.”
THE
“PLUM
RAZOR.”
FOR private use is unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground, set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee it for two (2) years. Price, 10/G each. Bend P.O. Order.
One of the finest Russian Leather Graduating Strops, 7/6 ; a Tin of the best Razor Paste, 1/-; Stick of
Transparent Shaving Soap, ora Jar of Non-irritant Shaving Soap, specially prepared by ourselves to
suit the climate, 1/-; good Shaving Brush from 1/-; a real Badger Shaving Brush, 3/6 ; Bottle of Bay
Rhum or Yaddo Water for use on the face after shaving, 3/6.
fotosoi Bair-itffiing Saloon, 630 Eeorie-itreet, Brickfield Bill, Sydney.
A LOVELY SKIN,
«Mwttfnl complexion, soft, smooth and delicate neck, face, hands and arms can beet km obtained
fcy discarding all leaden and greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, not hstof allowed te
Ktroaln on this skim cannot possibly hare any good effect on it, and by using
f&MkmdA’
tCalgdor
■i pooling, soothing, healing and refreshing preparation for the face, hands and anna of aB
exposed to the heat and dust of summer or the cold and damp of winter; it eradicates freckles,
san, sunburn, stings, redness and roughness of the skin caused by cold winds or the use of hard
water, removes pimples, spots, discolorations, chilblains, eczema, etc,, relieves inflammation,
hums, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully smooth and
pleasant. Gentlemen after shaving will find it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin,
St is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, can be used with impunity on the
akin of the most delicate lady or child,
.. • 4s, 6d. and Bs, 6d, per bottle; bottles of half fch© usuaH
oize at 2s. 3d.,
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL promotes the growth of the hair. a&4!
Is also sold hi a golden colour for fair-haired people.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and gives ss
pleasing fragrance to the breath A«k anywhere for ROWLANDS' articles of 90, Hatto®
Warden. London, and avoid cheaD. worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Eliiott Bros,, and E. Prosser & Co., Signer?


Business Announcements,
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSUR ANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-tip and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES OF INTEREST for long term
deposits.
DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under three years.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upward 3.
NOTWITHSTANDING fall in Bank Rates, this
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing
£7 per cent, for 3 years A With Cash Bonus if renewed
£6 „ „ 12 months lat the rate of £1 per cent per
£5 ~ ~ 6 months ( annum, or withdrawable on
£4 „ „ 3 months! notice n terms of prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “ TEN MINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post Free.
The Company solicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments over terms of years.
Chief Offices: Australasian Chambers, 8, 10 and
12 Hunter-street, George-street, Sydney.
FOR mm or HI
FRESH CONSIGNMENTS of the above well-
known brand show that it still possesses the fine
qualities so greatly appreciated by lovers of a
GOOD SHOES or a GOOD CHEW,
THE ARMY AND NAVY TOBACCO
Is the largest plug and the best value for fid. in
the market.
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG and AITKEN.
None Genuine unless branded ARMY & NAVY.
Vulcan Navy
in s’s, B’s, and 10’s. This old established and
favourite brand ALWAYS IN STOCK. Good
line for retailers.
Vulcan Mixture,
Jib. PACKETS-AMERICAN.
SOLE AGENTS, CRAIG AND* AITKEN.
AMERICAN CUT TOBACCOS.
LONG CUT and RUBY in Jib. PACKETS,
GUARANTEED FINEST QUALITY,
CIGARS!
To those who enjoy a Fragrant Cigar, we recom-
mend our
SPECIALLY IMPORTED LINES.
ASK FOR
U and I
Extra Quality, A MAGNIFICENT CTGAR.
Our own Importations of
HIGH LIFE,
EL TORO,
B REV AS,
SPORTS, &c.
Wholesale to the trade.
MANILLAS A SPECIALITY!
CRAIG and AITKEN,
IMPORTERS OF ALL KINDS OF
HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
.Saloons fitted With Every Necessary,
COMPETENT HAIRDRESSERS ENGAGED
FOR TOWN OR COUNTRY.
Pr.E VSE pay Attention to the Address :
CRAIG & AITKEN,
WHOLESALE
Tobacco, Cigar, and Cigarette Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF
HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUISITES,
PERFUMERY,
FANCY GOODS,
&c.
Sole Agents for the
ARMY & NAVY Tobacco & CIGARETTES.
Country Orders Promptly Despatched.
TERMS CASH.
Price Lists on Application.
A Speoial Invitation.
We especially invite a trial by all tho-e sufferers
from kidney and liver complaints who have failed
to obtain relief from other remedies and from
doctors. Nature’s great remedy, dr. bell’s
bitters, has effected cures in many obstinate
cases. It acts at once on the kidneys, liver and
bowels, cleansing the system of all poisonous
humours and restoring a healthy condition to those
important organs. Do not be discouraged, but
try it.
If tub Sufferers from Consumption, Scrofula, and
General Debility, will try Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cod
Liver Oil with Hypofhosphites, they will find immediate
relief and a permanent benefit. The Medical Profession
in the various countries of the w r orld, universally declare
it a remedy of the greatest value ; and as it is very
palatable, it can be readily taken by the most sensitive
stomach, and will never fail to give relief and comfort to
the sufferer. Any Chemist can supply it at 4s. fid.
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street."
A Lovely and Delicate Complexion.— This is ob-
tained by using Rowlands’ Kalydor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms ; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
MO MORE HARD TIMES.
If you will stop spending so much on fine clothes, rich
food and style, buy good, healthy food, cheaper and better
clothing, get more real and substantial things of life
every way, and especially stop the foolish habit of em-
ploying expensive quack doctors or using so much of the
vile humbug medicine that does you only harm, but put
your trust in that simple, pure remedy, Dr. Soule’s Ameri-
can Hop Bitters, that cures always at a trifling cost, and
you wall see good times and have good health.—
“ Chronicle.”
At the Silver Wedding family dinner the
Princess of Wales was attired in a most becoming
and appropriate gown of grey and silver. Besides
the magnificent tiara of diamonds —described
as being stiff and barbaric in design—presented to
her by the 365 personal friends, she wore a small
spray of orange-blossoms with one diminutive
orange peeping out from under the leaves. This
last she accounted for very prettily by explaining
that she was no longer a blossom, but had budded
into fruit.
GUILTY OF WRONG.
Some people have a fashion of confusing- excellent
remedies with the large mass of “patent medicines,” and
in this they are guilty of a wrong. There are some
advertised remedies fully worth all that is asked for them,
and one at least we know of : Dr. Soule’s American llop
Bitters. The writer has had occasion to use the Bitters in
just such a climate as we have most of the year in Bay
City, and has always found them to he first-class and
reliable, doing all that is claimed for them. —“Tribune.”
Colonial Maladies.— The Colonists of N.S.W. are to be
congratulated on two grounds. First, that they inhabit a
land where disease, as a rule, prevails in a mild and cur-
able form, and secondly, because the majority have ready
to hand a remedy that does away with the doctor and
medicine chest. This important Medicine was discovered
by Mr. Richard Freeman in 1844, and named by him Chloro-
dyne, which medicine continues to maintain its supremacy
all over the World as a special and specific remedy for the
treatment and cure of Diarrhoea, Dysentery, Cholerine,
Malaise, Hysteria, pain of every kind, Nervous affections,
Gout, Asthma, Consumption, Coughs, Colds and fever.—
Sold everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist upon
qaving “Freeman’s” only. Reject substitutes as they are
worthless. Trade Mark, an Elephant.
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street,Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
"and E. Prosser & Co.*
A Bilious He .daohe.
Is easily cured if you use the right medicine,
which is DR. bell’s bitters. The headache so
very uncomfortable and the medicine so cheap ; do
rot delay, hut call at your druggist’s and get a
battle.
CEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
6ft
IITIDEIrTTS
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE.
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, including Machinery, Imported
Leathers, &c.; and of the following Special Lines PEERLESS ft LOSS, SITI\ POLISH, MlflA V BLACK-
IIVO ; Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents Executed on Favourable Terms,
Business Announcements.
dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three time 3 a day ; a wineglaseful fur an adult,
smaller quantity for child en.
For general Deb'lity, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cntaneous Affection?.
The action of Dande'ion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persona suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two er three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDIC A L GENTLEMAN SAYS
A BOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
M i'h thanks for forwarding me a bottle of jour
Row’s Dandelion Biiterp, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
prevuusly tried.
Yours fail hfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with fruthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned:—
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indiges ion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, tut all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
hon ibly depres.-ed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent' qualities of ROWS DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
ww
m
I*
3
Jiii
Bow’s steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Bow's Steane's Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from gene-al debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity.
“ Having carefully examined a bode of Row’s
‘Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I con ider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly f ee from any injurious
chemicals, too often med in such preparations.
They should becoxe a favourite drink in these
warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN MTvILLOP, Analyst.
“Sydney, December 23, 1881.”
Bow’s Steane’s wine
has aho weaned many persons from the exe ssive
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer'all the purposes of a stimulant
without its i< toxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of natu'c and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur
passed.
TRY THEM,
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS.
ROW S ASSORTED WINES
Sole Proprietors,
Edward Row & Company,
43, 45, 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A DREADFUL PREDICAMENT.
"O, DEAR ME, WHAT SHALL I DO? MY SHOE-STRING HAS COME UNTIED,
AND THERE’S THAT DREADFUL SOCIAL PURITY SOCIETY JUST BEHIND
ME!"-Puck.
The latest “good thing” in N.Z. mining
shows that it is still dangerous to salt a claim with
gold-filings. The most pressing want of the day
is a machine to irregularise minute particles of
abraded metal.
A telegram in the Sydney E. News sa,ys
that the escort has left the Hodgkinson River with
21 tons of gold. As this represents somewhere
about £2,500,000, it is plain that N.Q. is now
getting along very nicely.


Business Announcements.
OUR
NEW ADDRESS
5 Doors from Liverpool-street.
THB OJSTXjTT
iiiieu liras!
B
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
, EGr to return thanks to their numerous
patrons and friends for past favors,
and, at the same time, to inform them that
they have opened their new establishment
at above address with a new and complete
stock of
musical Instruments
and all kinds of fittings, in fact it is the
grandest and most superb show in Australia.
We have specially imported over 750 new
instruments for our new premises, and can
safely say that no other house can equal us.
Our line in
AGGQRDEONS
is something marvellous.
o
PATENT BRASS NOTED ACCORDEONS,
10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-,
50/s &o.
PATENT STEEL NOTED ACCORDEONS,
30/-. 32/6, 35/-, 37/6, 10/-, 4?/-, 45/-, and 50/-,
PATENT BROAD REEDED ACCORDEONS,
25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, up to £5 10/-.
PATENT GERMAN SILVER ACCORDEONS,
30/-, 32/6-, 35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, up to £4.
asas>.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German 35/..
M ~ steel notes 50/-.
We have a special line of splendid Organ Con-
certinas in wood box, lock and key, complete
for 21/-.
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/ , 20/-, 30/-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE:—
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjces, £3 10/-.
5, 6 or 7 „ „ „ 4 10/-.
VIOLIN STRINGS.
Celebrated Zampinanl's at 6d , 9d., and 1/-, eaoh.
AMERICAN BANJO STRINGS,
Celebrated Ewlngton’s at 6d,, 9d., and 1/-, eaoh.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
658 George Street,
SYDNEY.
m COMPLAINT.
SYMPTOMS.
Sallowness of
Complexion
Lassitude
Pain in Eight Side
Indigestion
General Debility,
etc.,
Hot and Cold
Flushes, Dropsy,
etc, etc, etc
The liver is the
largest gland in the
body. It is the
great filterer of the
body. All the blood
E asses through it to
e refined or poluted
according to the
condition of that
organ. If, by reason
of disease, whether
it be what is
termed Hot, Cold,
Inflamed, Ulcerous,
Obstructed, Jaun-
diced, or whatever
not—it fails to per-
form its true func-
tions, disease and
debility promptly
follow. With a
sound, healthy stomach and pure blood, the liver
will never became diseased. The evidences of its
existence are numerous. Exhaustion, even upon
slight effort—going up hill or up stairs; costive-
ness of the bowels ; a sense of weight or pain
across the lower part of the chest; a greenish hue
of the skin ; sometimes liver spots on the surface;
burning palms and heat in the soles of the feet;
frequently a dry cough; furred tongue; saltish
taste in the mouth; dull headaches and very
heavy eyelids. Those who suffer from Liver
Complaint are familiar with one or more of the
symptoms above described. A weak, defective
stomach and a bilious state of the same, are the
prime causes of this disease. Any remedy that
will tone up the stomach, cleanse the blood of its
impurities, give strength, vigor and action to the
constitution, will remove the exciting causes and
effect a cure of this common disease. No medi-
cine is so well adapted to remove it, produce pure
blood, and thereby relieve all the organs from the
terrible effects of Liver Complaint, as bell’s
bitters. It has no equal in all cases of Liver
Complaint.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND.
UCHTNER & CO.,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
Flb.ot©g:ra,;pla.ic I3eq.na.lsites.
Instructions in Photography
FREE of CHARGE
- To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit!
AT EITHER
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS FREE.
UCHTNER - & CO.
Business Announcements.
N
EWT O N
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETM KERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CH IRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
sft
38,
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and ' ica versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automat cally. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous posi ions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits pe ieo ly every i art of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. P. ice, wi ll Stand,
305,; without Stand, 255.
Packing in c nvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
DRAW ING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upliolstei'ed, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of des gns ; also, elegantly finished
in Einb oidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous si?e', fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-hol s, Slid-
i ig Trays, Stationery Draw-
e s, revolvin' port ble triple
I kstand. Receptacles for
Siampa, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Out idc Drawers d vidid into comp rt-
rcents by movable pa tit ons to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminish ns he space when eqm'red. Locks
automatically. One of the mo t u eful, commo-
dious,and i erfectly planned at tide-forlhe Lib a>y
or Office.yet produce 1 , t dm rably suite 5 to the
neces-ities of profe tional and business men.
Drawing room cbi-
NETS.
Early English
Chippendale Designs.
Newton & Lamb.
LARGE STOCK of PI*NOFORTES by the
Most Celebrated Makers.
Austrian bent
WOOD
FURNITURE.
A Very Complete
Assortment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Pailour, Library or Bed-
room?. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASY CHaIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a specialty. Newton & Lamb.
T> EDSTEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 40».; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s,
JJ’EWTON AND LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS,
Sydney Town Hall, when completed,
(which may be this _ year) will seat some 6000 or
7000 persons. It will contain an organ that will
be the second largest in the world, built by Hill
and Son at a cost of £13,000; and will be fitted
with a zinc ceiling of specially fine acoustic pro-
perties.
Mount Gilead, the picturesque and —as
colonial history goes—ancient estate of Mr. E. B.
Woodhouse,_ was, the other day, submitted for
sale by auction and withdrawn. There are in the
estate 2060 acres, but so much has land improved
in value during the past few years, that a bid of £l6
17s. 6d. was considered too small, the owner hav-
ing reason to believe that he can obtain a much
higher figure. Mount Gilead is one of the oldest
settled areas in the colony, and on it are an old
mill and other picturesque buildings built by con-
vict labour in the days when according to Parke*
N.S.W. stretched from one sea-coast to another.
The poor old Melbourne Argus has been
left behind so often that it resolved for once to be
up to time, even if it should stay out of bed for a
week to do it. Accordingly when the Bulgarian
war scare started, a good many months ago, it
sent a reporter to the scene, and everywhere
on the map of Europe where horses’
hoofs were mingled with human brains, and
bombs were being iaid on with a lavish hand,
that reporter had got to go. He was to earn his
oats by taking notes, and when the cataclysm
came and the whole world was reeling to its fall
he was to write down the fact. But the war
never arrived, and the special cruises aimlessly
about the Mediterranean feeling very lonesome
and yawning hideously as he jots down corres-
pondence regarding ruins and thistles and other
things which he has met with in furrin parts.
And yet when the Argus gets dog-tired of this
work and recalls him the war will break out right
off with unexampled frenzy. Providence seems
to run this world solely in order that the Argus
may get “ left.”
Miss Prude (aged 40, going to bed) :
“ Somebody’s under my bed ! My goodness !
Can it be Fido ? Fido ! Fido ! ” (She holds
out her hand under the bed, and the wise burglar
licks it). _ “Oh! all right! It is Fido.” She
then retires, reassured, and sleeps through the
burglary.
The prisoners tried before Judge Mein at
last Brisbane Assizes had a rough time of it. His
Honor’s liver was out of order, and he snarled and
snapped at everyone in the court, from the Crown
Prosecutor to the usher. One prisoner, found
guilty of stealing a coat, was sentenced to three
years’ imprisonment by his Honor, with the com-
forting remark that the prisoner seemed fond of
gaol. Another offender named Tate, charged
with uttering a cheque for £7 odd, and who con-
ducted his own defence in a manner that would
do credit to any barrister, was sent to gaol for
seven years, Judge Mein admiringly remarking
that the accused was a clever scoundrel. He
meant a clever lawyer, of course.
This is the sort of Christianity which is
preached by a N.Z. Bulletin correspondent:—
“Even Providence is giving the anti-Chinese
agitation a lift—Chinkies, variously estimated at
from 50,000 right up to 7,000,000, have been drowned
by the inundation of the Ho-ang-lio. ” Hooray for
the Ho-ang-ho !
Sing ho ! yeo ho ! The Ho-ang-ho,
Mightier river than Elbe or Po !
Flow, flow,
Chinkie-exterminator, flow,
And with drowned corses flavour the Pekoe.
What ho !
Subscription gathering go
For the millions starving on the Ho-ang-ho?
No!
Not so !
Pity stow—
Let ’em starve by the Ho-ang-ho.
Maryland, My Maryland
* • * Pretty Wives,
Lovely daughters and noble men.”
“My farm lies in a rather low and miasmatic
situation, and
“My wife! ”
“ Who was a very pretty blonde ! ”
Twenty years ago, became
“ Sallow ! ”
“ Hollow-eyed ! ”
“ Withered and aged ! ”
Before her time, from
“Malarial vapors, though she made no particular
complaint, not being of the grumpy kind, yet
causing me great uneasiness.
“ A short time ago I purchased your remedy for
one of the children, who had a very severe attack
of biliousness, and it occurred to me that the
remedy might help my wife, as I found that our
little girl, upon recovery had
“Lost!”
“Her sallowness, and looked as fresh as a new
blown daisy. Well the story is soon told. My
wife, to-day, has gained her old-timed beauty with
compound interest, and is now as handsome a
matron (if I do say it myself) as can be found in
this country, which is noted for pretty women.
And I have only Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters to thank for it.
“The dear creature just looked over my
shoulder, and says ‘ I can flatter equal to the days
of our courtship,’ and that reminds me there might
be more pretty wives if my brother farmers would
do as I have done.”
Hoping you may long be spared to do good, I
thankfully remain,
C. L. JAMES
Beltsville, Prince George Co., Md.,
May 20th, 1886.
JiST None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the*white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown
in the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisonous
stuffs made to imitate the above.


‘Australia’s” Monster Consultations. The
Autumn Handicap, run at Canterbury April 28th,
1888. 2000 subs., each 10s. First horse, £4oo'
second, £200; third, £100; starters £lOO, non-
starters £lOO, divided amongst them. Fifty cash
prizes of £2 each. The Queen’s Birthday Cup
May 24th, 1888. First horse, £1500; second,
£600; third, £300; starters £3OO, non-starters
£3OO, divided amongst them. Subscribers are
quested to apply early, and enclose two stamped
addressed envelopes for reply and result. Address,
“ Australia, ” care of Mr. Hugh Dalveen, Victoria
Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office, George
street, Sydney, N.S.W.*
The City Provident Dispensary, 603 George-street, Brick
field Hill, between Liverpool andGoulbum streets. Advice
and Medicine, Two Shillings and Sixpence. The Resident
Medical Officer (a Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
and Surgeon, registered in Great Britain, New Zealand,
and by the Medical Board of New South Wales; late of the
Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, and University College
Hospital, London). Sees Patients daily from 9 a.m. to
10 p.m.; Sundays and Holidays 9to 10, Evenings 7 t,o 9.
The Referee.
The prophecies of The Bulletin— and 99
per cent, of Sydney boating-men—were verified
on Saturday last, when the N.S.W. so-called re-
presentatives received, on the Saltwater River, an
ignominious dressing-down at the hands of the
Victorian eight-oar crew. When names were first
picked for a crew, four Sydney Rowing Club oars-
men —the brothers Kennedy, Johnson, and Dob-
son—drunk with theis victory last season in several
races over very indifferent crews, refused to row,
and it was only after a deal of persuasion that
they consented to take seats. Had the four been
tip-top men in an eight, it would have been bad
enough for the Association so to degrade itself,
but neither Gerald Kennedy’s nor Dobson’s per-
formances and style in an eight entitle him, as a
matter of course, to seats in a truly representative
crew. Kennedy, last year, caught a crab which
threw the whole crew out of gear, and on Saturday
Dobson, who was, absurdly enough, made stroke,
repeated the performance, and caused the crew to
stop rowing at what would have been a vital part
of the race—had they had the ghost of a show.
Nice intercolonial crews, truly, which cannot row
over a course without floundering and catching
crabs like a parcel of school-girls !
It would, seem
that the aquatic
critics of Australia
are not so keen as
the touts who set
the market at home.
Good odds were laid
on the N.S.W. crew
before Saturday’s
race proved they
were not in it with
the Victorians,
whereas, judging
from English pre-
cedents, victory
should have been a
foregone conclusion
for the visitors,
barring accidents.
Hobson certainly
caught a crab soon
after the start, but
that accident didn’t
account for an all-
round failure. A
bad boat, bad steer-
ing and bad form
at racing speed were
defects which should
not have escaped
close observers of
trial spins.
* *
Burke and New-
ton are in heavy
training previous
to a division of the
gate-money.
■* *
Hanlan looks
well and strong, and
should defeat
Kemp, the cham-
pion by proxy.
Beach and Com-
pany’s confidence in
Kemp can be taken
for what it is worth,
as they were equally
confident in Kemp’s
chances on the
Thames, where he
showed a weak spot
and fairly “ broke ”
his party.
J ockey Hales
lias won wit li
White’s horses, dur-
ing the present
racing season,
£16,239. The stable
winnings have, alto-
gether, amounted
to £18,422.
* *
There was only
one pound differ-
ence in the weights
of the intercolonial
eights—in favour of
N.S.W.
• t*
Googeedeegal-
lageenullah, entered
for the Ivanhoe
J.C. Races, takes
the cake.
* •
Hector Wilson
and his wife (Eu-
genie Legrand) left
Sydney for ’Frisco
by the Alameda.
So did Black Jack-
son, the Australian
champion box e r,
whose challenge to
fight Jem Smith for
£lOOO (the Thomp-
sons put up Jack-
son’s money) has, it
is cabled, been ac-
cepted. He is ac-
companied by Tom
Meadows, a light-
weight shifty boxer
who is equally
clever with his legs
and his hands, and
is a most punishing
fighter.
In the fight for the Australian light-weight
championship, Carroll, of Silverton, was utterly
knocked out in 13 minutes by the more scienced
Boland, of Melbourne.
* * *
Billy Bates’ eye has been examined by
Mr. Critchett, the crack London oculist, who
thinks it will never be quite right again. The
Bates Benefit Fund has reached about £350.
* • •
Bolger, a bookmaker on the flat, brought
an action against the stewards of the V.A.T.C.
for turning him off the course after he had duly
paid his admission money. Bolger, it seems, has
for years been licensed by the V.A.T.C. and
allowed to bet at Caulfield, but recently the Club
passid a resolution barring all bookmakers who
are not licensed by the mighty V.R.0., whose fee
Bulger objects to pay. Hence Mr. IV was mauled
about by a policeman when he put in his last ap-
pearance at Caulfield. Judge Williams decided
that the V.A T.O. had no right to sling out
Bolger, and even doubted if they hid power to
enforce a license-fee on any bookmaker, so the
Club is let in for £25 damages and costs. The
V.A.T.C. run their show on unalienated Crown
lands.
* * *
T t
Hutchens challenges the world for 300
yards. In selecting his very best distance, the
Putney man shows that he is going down the hill,
A few year sago he would have conceded a start
to any man in the world at all distances Up to a
quarter of a mile. In 1881, Myers and he were
training together, and it was well known that the
P ro - could easily defeat the amateur at 440 yards,
Hutchens’ great deeds at Sheffield may never be
equalled.
* * *
Trinnick, the Victorian cricketer, has
migrated to Queensland.
* * *
n 4 .i • , w , • , ,
, ,un .’ tle ° ia ! d ' Nottingham cricketer, is
°Y er with Lilly white s footballers, after
, , 6 shall not have the pleasure of seeing the
on '’ un cdear 50 yards m six strides,
* * *
Secretary Clibborn, of the A.J.C., has
gone to England for a holiday. It doesn’t much
The Political Ladder.
matter, however, for there always seemed to be a
gulf of cold water between Mr. Clibborn and the
public.
• * *
Another Foley has just been added, to the
fighting force of N.S.W. He commands H.M.S.
Myrmidon.
• •
A very promising Tyneside sculler named
Charles Carr has challenged Wallace Ross to row
for the championship of England and £2OO aside,
the match to com e off on the Tyne.
* • •
s|The Hon. James White has pursued an
incomprehensible policy with Carlyon. He was
withdrawn from the Victorian Derby when it was
almost at his mercy, and then, after winning
nine races in succession, the colt was broken down
in the Sydney Cup. Why bring out Carlyon, in a
crippled condition, to pL,y second fiddle to Acme?
Our hired girl—The Queen.
The Dubbo Liberal will, we presume, be
prosecuted for contempt in re the scathing com-
ments passed by it in its leading article of 18th
instant, respecting the judicial bearing of Mr.
Windeyer, of the N.S.W. Supreme Court.
“ Woppity” Smith, one of the two chief
witnesses for the Crown in the police-conducted
Mount Bennie trial, a disqualified jockey, a mags-
man, a pimp, a sly-grog informer, and an Ordinary-
vagabond and snide-adventurer, has been convicted
at Bathurst of arson before Justice Windeyer.
But why was he sebt to Bathurst gaol instead of
Berrima, to bbtaih which lodale of punishment Ire
was sentenced to two years and eleven inonth’s
imprisonment instead of thre'e years? Judge
Windeyer has sentenced many and many a man,
who, compared with Mr. “Woppity ” Smith, was
a paragon of virtue, to bear himself company for
nine months in the chill solitudes of Berrima “ soli-
tary.” Mr. “ Woppity ” Smith is a lucky man.
The last time he appeared before Mr. justice
Windeyer he was one of the two “heroes worthy
of the Victoria Cross,” who bore “witness” at
that monstrous travesty of justice, the Mount
Rennie trial. Since then this scoundrel, whose
evidence—together with that of the blood-soaked
forger, Stanley—was the verbal gallows on which
nine miserable boys were sentenced to death and
four of them actually hanged, has appeared before
the courts in the loathsome capacity of a sly-grog
informer. The Bulletin notices, with astonish-
ment, that Sir Alfred Stephenis to act as Lieuten-
ant-Governor of N.S.W. during Governor Car-
ington’s- absence at Norfolk Island. Has the ideal
of Justice'sunk so low, then, that this worn-out
relic of the andient regime is to sit at the head of
the Executive table and wield the shears of Fate
ere he has explained or denied the tremendous
allegations made against him by the Australian
Star in respect to his connection with the Stanley
Testimonial Fund ?
A correspondent writes that at Bondi,
Sydney, there is a builder who employs Chinese
carpenters.
At Newtown, Sydney, the other day Mr.
Bible married Miss Cross. Long 1 ago the Bible
and the cross wen one, hub the ci ergy have evi-
dently forgotten.
CORRESPONPENCE
“Ah Englishman”: England has cjiiite ah
inuch to fear from the Chinaman as has Australia, for the
Chinaman may yet invade India from one side while the
Russian enters it Prom the other. Chiba can send mil-
lions to India, but only thousands, at the worst, to AuS
tralia. There is no reason why the English Tories should
be allowed to exploit Australia simply because of oui’
prospective Chinese difficulties. Better for us to have to
fight China than to live in so-called peace as the puppets
of Jingoism. Better fight Chinamen on our coasts or even
on our very soil than go abroad as bandits to cut black
throats in the Soudan.... “ J.T.0.D.” (Barrier): Now,
haven’t we always advocated everything you contend for ?
..“Dingo” (Melb.): Who is that University poet?..
“Mabliur”: Miss Sappho Smith thanks you very much>
“G. M‘A.”: The W.P.B. yawns, hut not for your
copy. Send a10ng....“ Boree ” : The fact of your wife’s
illegitimacy having been concealed from you doesn’t in-
validate your marriage. You married the daughter, not
her father and mother....“ Ohio ” : Letter for you at
Redfern P. 0.... “ Revenge ” : Wants a lot of doctoring..
“A.A.C.”: At present the amounts of the annuities en-
joyed by the various members of the Sovereign’s family
are as follows: —Prince of Wales, £40,000 ; Princess of
Wales, £lO,OOO ; Duke of Edinburgh, £25,000; Duke of
Connaught, £25,000 ; Empress of Germany, £BOOO ; Prin-
cess Christian, £6000; Princess Louise, £6000; Princess
Beatrice, £6000; Duchess of Albany, £6000; Duke of
Cambridge, £12,000; Grand Duchess of Mecklenburg-
Strelitz, £3OOO ; Princess Mary Adelaide, £5OOO ; Duchess
of Cambridge, £6OOO ; making a total annual payment of
£158,000. Besides these annuities, lump sums have, at
various times during the present reign, been granted as
dowries—as, £40,000 to the Princess Royal, and £30,000 to
each of the Queen’s other daughters, including the lai e
Princess Alice... “ A.P.S.”: Thanks... “ E.D.” :To hand...
“Subscriber of Long Standing”: We haven’t heard cf
him 1ate1y....“ Mel.”: Your “Spoons in Teapot” is a
hoary chesnut, aged at least 180 years.... “A. Madden ’:
The discovery of caves is about the only industry which
is flourishing just now in N.S.W.—except, perhaps,
bribery and corruption....“ Moses ” : Your sentiments
are as admirable as the fidelity with which Sydney D.T 1
sticks to such of its shareholders as happen to get into
political or civic messes....“ W.S.” : What then was the
mysterious power exercised by ex-Mayor Riley over
Parkes, in the matter of getting the latter to make the
sewerag'e-board appointments, and thus enabling him
(Ri ey) to wipe Mayor Harris eye? An answer post-paid
will oblige... .“E. Wilson ” (Carlton, Vic.): You must
not beg the question. Heredity and environment are the
real producers of everything you call “ vice” or “virtue.’
Y ery few modern philosophers admit the freedom of the
will, and human responsibility is not so much an indivi-
dual as a racial matter. A good example was afforded
at the YYag-ga Circuit, the other day when James
Druitt was sentenced to death for a criminal assault
O P. an infant. And yet, after several centuries of
civilisation, the intellectually refined and testhetically cul
tured Caucasian seems only to manage to rise to the level
of an ignorant aborigine with an unbroken ancestry of
pure and abject animalism. The brute black, who in in-
telligence is hardly to be compared with a sheep-dog', be]
cause he is brainless and inherits only instincts instead of
sentiments, commits a revolting act —that is revolting to
the white man—and the super-educated w'hite falls on
him and commits an act of murderous assault and
savage vengeance. Where, after all, is the dif-
ference between Newton and the chimpanzee?....
“S.W.J. (Wodonga): Too long. Even the question of
who wrote the “ Voice from the Bush ” can’t justify three
foolscap pages. But will summarise your letter....
“A. J.” (Yass): Your story is too incoherent to be read
without the aid of a diagram. Can’t you sing it?....
“A Crofter” (Wellington, N.Z.): Wonderful eomipand Qf
rhyme:—
“ Lord we are truly thankful
For this great, steaming tankful ”
approaches to the bounds of the sublime. The only man
we ever knew who could equal that was a poet who made
journalist” rhyme with “infernallest.” “H.H.C.”
(Newcastle): Will attend to your letter....“ Cayuga ”
(Sydney): Thanks. [Many communications unavoidably
held over.]
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1880; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
of chronic, nervous, and
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
linn will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a . P? TT® oure m every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His leason for doing so is this—where there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble or,
m other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it,distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
in his speciality— CHRONIC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
i esiding at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Speer, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours.
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. only.


Business Announcements.
CO,
mrciiXJLxr xkob*, jkigg a
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
c
Sv
6
IRONMONGERS
o 512
SkJ#
*</
H
s
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, Albo Carton light
ELE OTROPLATE® WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS, !V
GAS COOKING STOVES I—LEONIS FLETCHER'S, JEANS &]WALKER'S,S
BRADFORD'S WASHING-MACHINES, „&0., &0,
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
'ZLSIIOII JL'HSLA.SC Ml CISLILMVAI
Brg|
I^l
C f F EC T U A ILY 0 EST R OY'
ALL NOXIOUS INSECTS^*
f UAS rues BEETLES,
cockroaches and is
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARmlessTG BIRDS DOGS,
or other
animals
0
05
#
5
%*%%% x,
s^sSVvs
■’ ■.v /' -; f A' ■%» O a °,
• ' : - ' r^V 3 °o f '
FELTON C RIM WAP EUC 0
- MELBOURNE.
WANTED IN EVERT HOUSE
** for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware ot
the numerous imitations.
Qiticura
5#
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
fROM
mi
O)
Scrofula on Nackw
to SCROFULA
Itchn? HUMORS, Humiliating Enip-
ST'lyiS lo BorUf and Burning Skin Torture*,
tv and every *pecie* of Itching,
of h a# es of ♦& erlt « d . Scrofulous, and Syphi-
P* Blood, Skin, and Scalp,
lnfancy to old age, are cur
with
2?»th„r* ml »ncy to old age, are cured by
end ni v ® WT » the new Blood Purifier,
Cur«. ti ? dra and Cuticura Soap, the
Beautiflers, externally.
both P Ue« * ’ Groc er*’,Vaeherwoman’« Itch,
52?* * i!® d Delicate Irritations peculiar
&tOu? lo tJ»x n tantl y relieved by a warm bath
th e \ 8 , 0A ? and » single application of
I?, threp*j Cat ®kin Cure. This repeated
OtWkhy CUfA T? B v* 0f CUTIGUBA RESOLVENT,
hen mi ttching Diseases of the Skin and
means absolutely fail.
s»sr
55 «: *r-otn t\« have been a terrible sufferer
dkft o hliiferi t ea f es of the Skin and Blood;
W®bs; ®hun puDlic places by reason
W^hef, a ve eg ; have had the. best phy
MvhbaJ'htil i J ll hundreds of dollars, and got
Wvhs&l® c urert UBed the Cuticuba ReMEMBS,
*itj & nkt, . ttUi. In-ft mvr uVI r> onrl Klnnfl
a ehild>« Cae i, a nd left my skin and blood
to <j Send for our sixty-four page
6 Skin and Blood Diseases.
' 8^ Uli AN Consignees,
* ®o., New South Wales.
CUTIOURA RKSOLVKA , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hencs
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cntieura, the Great Skin Curb (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, dears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fleshy
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin,
Gnticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifies
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticuka, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cntieura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts
XTor Sale by ail retail cue mi mb and wholesale
i*, . ~ , «ts throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Hew
, I Cuticu'ua, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$l.l- Jutiouiia SoAr, 25 cents; Oottcowa (3ha\
inc- Scvae, 15 centsj Cuticuka Resolvent, $l.OO
pei lio.Ue,
Prepared by yh*
Potter *lr ag Sc Chemical Co., hsitsa, U.S.A,
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY,
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &C., MADE ON THE PREMISES,
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS, CUES .BALLS in stock, also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS. J
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
J> Little George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Sqnare, LONDON.
Business Announcements.
M
O N U M E N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomo Bailings.
Designs and Estimates lot warded on request
JT. CUlt*! INGHAM,
Mabgabbt-stbeet, Wyn yard-square, Sydney
a mmm medicine,
BEECH AM’S PILLS
c
*8
*
PATENT
09
PILLS
a
&
4.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervom and trem-
bling sensations, Ac. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. This
ia no fiction for they have dene it in thousands of cases,
■very sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pffle, and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females ef all ages these Pills are invaluable,
ae a few doses ef them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring about all that is required. No
female should be without them. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEEOHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
oording to the directions given with each box they will
•eon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
•f the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs of the - human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring hack the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills stand un-
rivalled ; and any one labouring under any of the above
oemplaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the best ever offered to the public for Asthmatio and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppreeeien of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com-
fort to tbose afflicted with the above distreesing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with any ef the above complaints give Bisoham's
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be re-
moved.
Caution. —The publio are requested te notiee that the
words “ Bsbohaits Pills, St. Helens,” art en the Govern-
ment Stamp affixed to eaoh box of the Pills. linnet en
they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beeeham, Chemist, St. Hslens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patsnt Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.B.— Full directions are given with eaoh bon.
Robert butcher & co.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
MANUFAf TUMNG HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S V © N E. V
IMPORTERS OFAUTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £1,000,000
Reserve Fund... 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canaan, nan offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers ’ Letters of Cred’t.
Drafts issued and Bills ccTectcd on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIt. Acting Manager.
MASON BROTHERS,
#3^
K
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A, MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Balchin, Johnson & Co.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney.
ofjSydney
T- Jt^OtmX^SJBa^MOUNTAINS^
gwaaangrJß itoactgEl
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address—
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D*~ RIDGE’S
FOOD
rax INFANTS ami INVALIDS
Has as enormous sale in England,
«nd is now being introduced into the.
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should got asupp!y n
*9 every wise mother will certainly,
use it.
OR-JUDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MlLtS*’
LONDON. ENGLAND/
jr
COUGHS
BRONCHITIS
m
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
a
AS
GENUINE SODA WATER.
THE
Syjlu Mil Water Go..
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfeot Parity Guaranteed.
»rt« ami Lonsuche un
erg. iefomi »ftm
Copyrighted.
.Boyd'* Beard Elixir did this, ,
iawd will do it on either bald
'head or bare face • Forcee
heavy Monet ache in from 3 to
4 weeks and never fails. 20,000*
young men already wear full
CanyfighUi.
beards, having used Ito 3 pic to. No injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, It. 6d. each, 3 for 3a. 6<*., post paid „ sent under
cover, free from observation Address, Fs*m»k Bouglaiu Sole Agent ,
Box TSth Q, r.OSydney. W 8. W
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker
296 PITT STREET.
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
4nap!?>M*e* all others lor its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three- Gold Medals—
**AßlS,lB7B, CALCUTTA, 1884,
pre-eminent excellence of quality
Atkinson’s celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE.
U unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON’S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
others for cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use
Of all Dealeri, and of the Manufacturert
J & E ATKINSON,
•U t Old Bond Strkkt, London
Mark—“White Hose - on" GoldeD
Lyre.’
len ,


ROYAL
Ut«H|
4 1 f
*4KIH c
POWDER
Absolutely Pur© a
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsedby the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
New South Wales.
IMPORTER OP
*3F WIITBS, SIP lIR IT S, BEERS, &O-, &0, 4
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES :—Tohn Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson's, Danville’s,
Roe’s, and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s (5, 10,15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
*SF The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. £3T All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales’ Hotel, 778 & 780 George-street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 & 784 George-street, Sydney.
HHSI-MiSS LADIES’ ffIESiSII EOOH mi LA7ATOBT,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
PRODUCE STORES - GIPPS STREET and DARLINGHURST ROAD.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
3STEIW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE ['STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne, and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLAOH BROTHERS.
VENI, VIDI, VICI,
For Artistio Posing and Effectiva
combinin * softness and bnlliA“
Photographa of -
aHAILEMONT ft w
ROYAL ARCADE,
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY i
*S‘
r
H E
WONDER OF TB®
COLEMANE AND sON£f f ..|
Pure Volatile Eucalypt^^
the only Geruine Kucalrpte
GOLD MEDAL ADELAIDE
exhibition.
All those suffering from Asthma-
sumption, Rheumatism, Nenr
Kidney and Gravel Complaints, ’
OIL a SAFE CURE. Our VICTOR
stands without a rival for mi
Bad Eyes. We have more bona u p j
than any medicine In the wo 0 { CHJ'
address on receipt of stamps.
and 2s. 6d; Ointment, 2s. 1»•
Sydney and Suburbs, W. C. SBU
Moore Park, Sydney.
— " *
The scienc ®
By W. Knox Parker, goOfjJ
A Book for Young and Old ' lo o
bound in cloth, and contains f>‘
tions. Price, post paid, _ 3s.
sample free. Those suffering _ ftt)
haustion and Diseases should s E-Jly
valuable work. Address: Do
Post Office Chambers, corner Bow
streets, Melbourne, Vie.
H
A Blessing in every T
OLLOWAY’S PILLS 5
LJL There is not a country in , t medicine® 1>» o r>s
,ne healing virtues of these grand» j n a tf
•ecognised by thousands of suffere • act jon wj, r.
lilments of humanity their bene® for . tZ
:ognised. Fullest directions are supP y / £
-very disease IF YOU SU I jn I *.
actured only at 78 New Oxford- -> he po*
ihasers should look to the ®
{ the address is not 523 Oxford-st
ipurious.
sale or M
STATIONERY, BOOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BRACKETS, EASELS, BAGS, AND PURSES.
mg C^? R™^S7w.rL^l“mr/p B ROMPT I A^.ON. 1 “ t * a °“ ‘^ lM ■
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE STREET
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts.
HYDRANTS, SHIP AND HOUSE SANITARY WARE, PIG AND SHEET LEAD, SPELTER, &C.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing,. Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blaoksmlthing. Plumbing,
Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “ PAN ’’fiCLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Bole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, das Fires, Meters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Prick on Application.
ALFRED LAWRENCE and
130 COLLINS STREET, WEST,
PITT STBBB' r »
91
Melbourne.
Sydney.
BARNETT & FOSTER’S Beer Soda-water, Wine and Cider Garb n Qi&er%Vs)
Machinery. Steam and Hand Presses for Vignerons for lees, Candle-maKe. o» V,J
Merchants, Distillers, etc. Books on Brewing and Malting. David Smith s aD d
Waters, a guide to their manufacture, with recipes.
Finings and Preserver. Antiseptic for Butchers, in 18-_
Lignozote for coating inside of vats and casks, preventitive * v ,
family use; makes block ice in three and a-half minutes, cools water or wine to £l 5 *-■
invaluable little machine will be found a perfect boon in country districts (Py Ac |d, ®.,
Corking and Capsuling Machines. Hop Aroma, Bohemian Hop Extract, SallC {, jjop V
supplied for making Dandelion Ale, Dandelion Bitters, Lemonade, Ginger Aio^v^-
lllustrated Catalogue Post Free on Application.
tar Publishing Office of “ THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, J** fr6 e.
WINE AND SPIRIT TRADE REVIEW.” Specimen Copies
A
Taylopßro 8
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer &. Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
NEW ZEALAND
HERBAL REMEDIES
TESTIMONIALS.
From the Soudan Contingent Hospital
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
MONK'S PILE MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute.
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonials
*r oistst’s
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A Positive Cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
X/COXTXC’S
NEURALGIA MJXTURE.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Sole A gents -
Mathey, Nathan & Co.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
ii Little Colons Street East, Melbourne.
■&o
T>
and
IDR. K, J-
L.R.C.P., Edin., L.R.C.S
registered in Great Britain, an
registered in ureai nnw lu , -- fl.ofj'
late surgeon to H.R.H.
Resident Medical Officer to tne go t o 1 ,
London, specialist for the trea pf (
and Heart Diseases* &c>
Consultation by letter °r
charge, at Edgar House
Hunter-street Sydney
R.
R
No
i
Send for large Bound t-0
for all Nervous Diseases; P r * c° 9 j
age, 6d. in stamps. Consult v't* 0
and the Doctor will tell y° u
case is curable or not,
not. Addi es 9 ptfj,
DR. rich
7 SPRING STRBBT^J^; 1 |
_— . 'J
s
PECIAL NOTICE.-THK
|ks Tasmanian Edition.
GERALD BROS., Su* 9Cl i p a nd &
, , £jjl
in advance), Six Shilff ll^ 9 apj
quarter, or One Pound P e
n
■ —— j e
The Bulletin will be on & oJfi tP 6
the office, George-street, or
the street.
Commercial Hotel, Gy^P' 0 ’
/t
THE above is one
Squatting Hotels
reasonable.
Sample room'
Superior accommodation-
Mrs. COMP 11 **
V
T. F. WIESENER, Watchmaker, Jeweller, Optician and' Scientific Instrument
The Only Place in the Colony taker* Goods in this line are Manufactured by Steam l (
fNDSBD, tha Industrial Hive at 334 GEORGE STRBBT has sprang Into exlstenoe and grown‘ b ®*{■oSa wlth'tSastalJtahmonS 10 ‘‘t^Foukdatio 11 ***
L 1U« aad uaaflfaatad by Old World Competition. Tha Maw Support has OpbUan, which has jaomvWitbamiMim JJ
SO years ago, on tha saand prlnolplas of PoAIN FIGURES, MODERATE FIXED PRCCS3 and CON3TANT PBR3ONAL SUPERVISION.
T. F. W.’a intimate and personal
and materials for thair maaofaabaro
T m
IP.
Glasses, Levels,
WIBBBNEI B ,
3 3 4
GEORGE STREET,
S Y D
