

§» FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
3. S. FRY ft SONS, Bristol, London and Stdnnt.
** An ordinary oup oontaina more active properties ol malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter."— Lakcnb
ondon & American
I
1
e orge Street Arcade, Sydney
ALSO AT
and 99 BOURKE STREET, North Side;
bourse street, south side;
° r °nr EASTERN MARKET, BOURKE STREET 5
And 84 LONSDALE STREET,
MELBOURNE
rg
»
A. W. EERNE.
nouman Mclennan.
J. H. BAIRSTOW.
The Bulletin
To Visitors to the Melbourne Exhibition and Cup Baces.—Our Sydney partner has just
returned from Melbourne, and has selected from our large Spring Imports of Tweeds and Coatings
Goods suitable for New South Wales. Customers have now advantages never met with in Sydney
before, as all our Spring Goods have been carefully selected by our Home buyer ; also from Mel-
bourne warehouses, Victorian and New Zealand mills. A call will prove this, as our patterns of
Tweeds are not to be seen anywhere else in New South Wales. The London and American
Tailoring Company’s only Branch in Sydney—Corner George Street Arcade.


3
tAta
rn
i
to
£75
EH
IWIRFHIWLINAM*
m
TOBACCO
m
i/r.
J!
fp
a
S 3
«r\ i
",
CLTH/v
100 V
SIR ROGER
%
SKO
Vf
DIXSONS
E. IX MILES.
MININS AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Mining Exchange.
fe* CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
MOULTONS
fcIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured,
let merely relieved, and we can prove what we say.
Xtiere are no failures and no disappointments.
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cures al
BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION
Hid DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve
distress from too hearty eating, correct DIS-
ORDERS of the STOMACH, stimulate" the
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
■xtract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
It 1b possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 3d.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor,
pATENT DIRECT ACTING
For use in. MINES, CHEMICAL WORKS; for
Working SHEEP-SHEARING MACHINES,
ROCK DRILLS, etc., etc.
Over Twenty Thousand (20,000) in Use.
Manufactured by the Westlnghouse Brake
Company (Limited), Loudon.
ITull particulars on application to the Sole Agents,
imray & CO.,
410 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
McLEAN BEOS., BIGG ft CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
O .
Co
5
I RONMONGERS
o
o
*
<fc
e 0
INSURE YOUR HEALTH! J
AGAINST ALL RlS^'
BY TAKING
EBUSE’S FLUID
11 Oools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the »
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of J 1
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
W
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OT#
{Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, dbc,, accompanying each
TAKE ONLY KRlJ^rt
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. ea ° |
-—SOI
Wholesale Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Subscribed Capital .. - .. .. £540,151
Paid-up Capital .. ... ... .. £240,554
Total Income Last Half Year ... ... ... £809,534
DEPOSITS fi Per Cent." fir TWELVE
SAVINGS' BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who desire to pub by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a EAIR RATE, and for
EVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
lihltt BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
{receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance..
AMPLE FUNDS for Borrowers. TERMS LIBERAL
mm
premie
BUILDING ASSOCIATE
54 COLLINS STREET
'
£25 Contributing SH3 m
/NAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon
Share Entrance Fee,' and 'the Payments upon the 3 ® tifllL
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Cor 1 p
• jp|
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to then £p
j 4
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares 1,(300 jM
, rjojitf* S|
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for
, Hon. JOHN NIMMO, M.P., J.P., « “
JAMES Milt AMS, M.P., J.P.,
£
'S?
r ,'
•?-' ; |, ' , ' i : ! -UJ'U-;* r ,n; : '
*■'i: v»*B
~zx'
..i-assE'
THE .
Federal Coffee Paln
CORNER OB'
&
<2z> Collirrs Streets, IvCelTo o~&-
Containing 560 ROOMS, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visit 010
PRIVATE SUITES af ROOMS, Magnificently FurnisX®
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cnis& e
Appointments Unequalled in the City. .
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL « GROUND Fl-
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging st®
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE.
George Cohen
Ti: LEG RAMS AMD LETTEBS PEOMFTDf


The Bulletin
Vol 9—Ko 452
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 0, 1888.
Price, Bd.
PARKER: “WHAT IS THERE IN MY PERSONAL APPEARANCE TO LEAD YOU TO SUPPOSE THAT I WOULD AGCEPT A BRIBE?”


NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
file National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the Australians.”
! BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
&X PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 <7
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
"Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say $OOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1888.
England, Canada, and the I lifted States.
Th ose who have watched the course of
events on the North Ameiican continent are
by no means surprised at the acute stage
which matters have reached between Canada
and the United States. The real cause for
surprise is to be found in the fact that the
present angry feeling has been kept down so
long—a result entirely due to the forbearance
of the Great Republic. The time has come
at last when a settlement cm not be much
longer deferred—when it will become neces-
sary for Canada either to boldly accept inde-
pendence and, with it, the responsibility of
her actions, or consent to a political union
with her powerful southern neighbour. That
the Americans, on the termination of their
Civil War, when their land and sea forces
were in such a state of efficiency as to make
a descent on Canada a mere naval and mili-
tary promenade, did not demand the removal
of the last European flag from the continent,
where its presence was a standing menace, is
to be deplored by every thoughtful person
on both sides of the Sc. Lawrence. The for-
bearance shown by the Washington Go-
vernment —the “Yankee mob,” as the
Monarchical parasites of Earope termed it—
in holding its hand when it had the power,
when the scara left by hostile cruisers built
in foreign ports were still fresh, and when
the end would have so justified the means, is
a remarkable example of Democracy’s
tolerance. Ia similar circumstances, no
other Government —monarchical, autocratic,
or oligarchic—would have stayed its hand
when the wrongs were so recent, the power
so overwhelming, and the end to be attained
so desirable, not for a great continent alone,
but for mankind. We have said “ both sides
of the Sb. Lawrence” advisedly. For, were
we Canadians, we would strive for a free and
federated America, just as, being Australians,
we strive for a free and federated Australia.
Over a hundred millions of people are said
to speak the English language. They con-
sider themselves the foremost of the world s
inhabitants, in political advancement at all
events, and, considering all things, it would
be hard to dispute their claim. Before this
vast and politically-intelligent body there
looms in the immediate future a question of
paramount importance and one to which an
answer cannot be much longer delayed. It
is whether nations are to be formed in con-
sonance with geographical position or in
defiance of it. It is only necessary to take
down a map of the world in order to see that,
so far as the Dominion of Canada is con-
cerned, the political tie that unites it to a
country thousands of miles away while a
kindred people, speaking the same tongue
and obeying almost similar laws, lies at its
door, is an anachronism. Everything that
now or at any future time can be said in
favour of Australia’s disentangling herself
from a European connection can be said with
much greater force regarding the Dominion.
It is occasionally asserted, for instance, that
at present an independent Australia would
not be sufficiently strong to defeat the
designs of powerful and unscrupulous nations
anxious to secure a slice of her territory.
We doubt the soundness of this view. But,
sound or unsound, it has no bearing on the
Canadian case. No European State or com-
bination of States would attempt to secure a
footing in a country extending from the
Gulf of Mexico to beyond the Arctic Circle,
and held by over seventy millions of people
who drew their blood from the most adven-
turous sources and improved it in the trans-
mission. Instead of expending great sums
in fortifying Atlantic and Pacific ports lest
hostile fleets should ravish towns whose
citizens had no interest in the quarrel and
no voice in its production, every harbour on
both oceans might be dismantled with the
full assurance that no strange flag would
float defiantly in its waters.
* * *
Entire freedom, however, from outside
danger or menace would be one of the least
advantages that would follow on a political
union between the Djminion and the State?.
The whole noxious gtowth of distant depen-
dence, Eemi-regal or aristocratic Governors,
trumpery titles, and all the bastard distinc-
tions that vulgar men admire and vain men
desire, would at once disappear. No more
disdainful ladies, bred in the dull routine of
Btupid courts, would be found to issue
ukases preventing all but half-naked women
from participating in vice-regal mummeries.
It is singular how the,habit of leaning on
others for support has a tetdency to destroy
all individuality or independence in nations
as well as individuals. There are, no doubt,
many highly-respectable Canadians as there
are many intelligent Australians whose
knees, to use a popular expression, would
knock together at the thought of being
obliged to choose the chiefs of their own
executives—in other words, to elect their
ovn Governors. To them any titled non-
entity, bankrupt in purse and in name,
would be preferable to one of their own
citizens of unblemished character and career,
but whose name might be sought in vain in
the pages of Burke or De brett. Thus the
immediate effect of political homegenousness
on the North American continent wculd be
to turn ofl the taps that convey to so maoy
colonists dreggy dcippings from a far-off
European fountain of honour. This alone
would be of great service in keeping obscure
men in their places, in teaching them to be
content with the names it has pleased God
to confer on them, and in teaching the
citizens at large that the days when dull
monarch? could honour dull men by the
stroke of a pen or of a sword had passed
away for ever.
* * •
One of the most potent reasons for a
transfer of allegiance on the part of Canada
—a transfer, be it remembered, not from a
kindred people to an alien one, but to one
of the same blood—lies in the fact that such
a change would inaugurate on a large portion
of the earth’s surface such a reign of peice
and plenty as the world has not hitherto
witnessed. Freetraders in all lands should
be the first to welcome the charge, fur it
would mean the triumph of unradrictad
commerce over an area as large as Europe,
Australia, and India combined. The day
that saw the election of Canadian representa-
tives to the Washington Congress would
witness the sweeping away of custom-houses
from both sides of a land-frontier of over
3000 miles. From Behring Straits t) Florida
in one direction, and from Labrador to Cali-
fornia in another, the exchange of commodi-
ties would be as free as between Sydney and
Parramatta. Nor should it be forgotten
that the Dominion, whose voice at pre-
sent is not heard beyond its own borders
and which does not io3Sfss a single
representative in either House of the
British Parliament, would have a for-
midable weight in American affairs. For
it is almost certain that, in the event of
throwing in its lot with the Union, the pre-
sent unwieldy provinces would undergo sub-
division into states of a convenient size. As
the number of new States would be very
large—the Dominion is more extensive in
area than the Union—and as each would
send two representatives to the Senate at
Washington, the most august deliberative
body in the world, the country which is now
a mere appanage, liable to be scolded or
snubbed by bumptious clerks on the other
side of a great ocean, would become suddenly
invested with a powerfal voice in the greatest
of political combinations. In a word, the
British North American provinces have
come at last to a point whence four roads
radiate, each leading to an entirely different
destination. These highways might be
labelled respectively (1) Old Road ; (2) To
England ; (3) To the United States ; (4) To
Independence. It is clear that the old route
cannot be much longer followed. As with a
man so with a nation : a time comes when it
must get out of jackets and frilled trowsers
or become the laughing-stock of the neigh-
bourhood. Situated as Canada is, with the
greater part of her land frontier close to the
50th parallel—with her northern boundary
blocked by ice and her southern by a vastly
more powerful people of the same blood and
tongue—independence would be a doubtful
advantage and an undoubted danger. The
question then resolves itself into—England
or America ; choose.
The choice, as we said, is narrowed to
throwing in her lot with her kinsmen who
live near or with those who reside in another
hemisphere—to marrying the stalwart and
rapidly-growing young giant whose broad
domain is coterminous with hers, or of,
womanlike, taking a sweetheart from beyond
the sea and wedding a rather elderly gentle-
man who everybody thinks has seen his best
days and who was never remarkable either for
generosity or attachment to anyone who had
served his purpose. But the question does
not end here—indeed, in one sense, it but
commences. There are at present travelling
through various colonies, happily without
attracting much attention, Englishmen and
Canadians who are unwise enough to advo-
cate a closer union between the Dominion
and Britain, regardless of the tact that such
a course would be fraught with danger to
both. The United States, it is well known,
have grown and are growing at a rata un-
paralleled in authentic history. That they
will continue to do so until their population
approaches or equals that of Europe is ex-
tremely probable. Circumstanced as they are
and as they will be, any agreement by which
half of North America becomes indissolubly
bound up in the fortunes of a distant country
belonging to an entirely different political
system must necessarily be not merely dis-
tasteful but menacing. It is bub a few days
since a leading British newspaper —a journal
which might almost be considered the
mouth piece of the present British Govern-
ment—warned the Americans not to ferget
the existence of an ironclad fleet in English
ports. It is the presence of a European flag
on the Western Continent that caused this
stupid threat, which, in i‘s turn, will but
hasten the time when, in the interests of
England, of America, of Canada, and of
mankind, ( hat banner must be changed.
* * *
The London Standard’s suggestive
menace referred to in the foregoing para-
graph throws a clear light, not alone on the
risks run by nations which neglect to adopt
proper measures for defence against wanton
aggression, bub on international questions
which are in all men’s mouths—Freetrade
and Protection among them. All or nearly
all European nations are unscrupulous when
they find it to their real or fancied interest
to ba so. Sj much violence and fraud have
been employed in the building up of old-
world States that the various countries have
not forgotten t h a lessons taught by centuries
of wrong-doing. Frederic seized Silesia in
face of the most solemn promises to the
contrary. Russia, Prussia, and Austr.a
throttled Poland; Franca did not shrink
from wholesale slaughter when she had the
power, while blood-stains left by England’s
presence are to be found in every land.
There is nothing to choose between the
doings of the various Governments. A com-
bination of force and fraud runs through the
past histories of all. In Henry George’s
“Protection and Freetrade,” written just
two years ago, the author passionately
condemns the “worse than useless scheme ”
of spending large sums in coast de-
fences. The Standard’s timely warning,
however, may go some way towards convinc-
ing him that the nation which relies on its
good intentions and its unpreparedness
merely invites insult. There is scarcely an
American sea board city that a few modern
vessels could not batter down in a few hours.
Thanks to Protection, however, such de-
fenctlessncss could be quickly and easily
remeditd. In these circumstances it is not
pleasant for Americans to speculate on what
the result would be if, owing to a long course
of Freetrade instead of Protection, their
country depended largely on the products or
the manufactures of other lands instead of
on its own. If the Union, by pursuing a
policy of unrestricted commerce, could not
manufacture steel to protect her batteries,
guns to defend them, or explosives to keep
an enemy at a respectful distance—if, in a
word, she had to send abroad for all these at
the risk of having them intercepted on the
high seas, or spend years in learning how to
manufacture them when public safety de-
manded their rapid production, it is not the
Standard only, but every Tory organ in the
British Islands, that would send up its little
scream of menace.
The Fads Concerning Ah Toy.
The decisions which perpetually issue from the
law courts of Australia fill us with a sort of sad
regret. Every day brings forth some fresh evi-
dence that the “ statoots ” are not what they
seem, and as we study these new lights we reflect
almost with tears on the dreary foolishness of
Blackstone and Moses and other important
members of the Bar, and wonder how long it
would have takea them to climb to that apex of
compound muddlement to which the Constitutions
of the Australian States can ascend almost with-
out an effort. Hardly a week passes without
some Australian court engaging in a struggle
with some hitherto reliable Act of Parliament,
and the invariable result is the discovery that the
Act in question didn’t mean what it said, but
only said what it didn’t mean to cover up some ■
thing that it did mean, but didn’t say ; and it
also generally proves, on further inspection, that
something that nobody ever saw or heard of exists
in some other Act which was passed some cen-
turies ago while Henry 111. was asleep or out,
and by virtue of which it wouldn’t matter even
though the Act in question did attempt to mean
what it seems to be driving at, for it would be
prevented from doing it anyhow. The courts are
filled with stacks of imported English precedents
which never do anything but always prevent
something from being done, and when they have
been duly dug up and investigated and exposed to
the public view it always proves that they throw
no light whatever on how anything can be effected,
but disclose a solid average of 18 different ways
that it can’t be done, and then leave it there. As
a means of making everything improbable and
nearly everything impossible a collection of Eng'
lish statutes and precedents have no equal on
earth; and when they have successfully reduced the
simplest and most definite Acts of the Australian
Parliaments to chaos and “ pi ” these relic 3 of old-
time foolishness retire in good order, and leave
nothing but judicial ruin behind them.
These remarks, and others of a still more bitter
character which we propose making further on,
are mainly suggested by the case of a certain
interfering foreigner which was recently heard in
Melbourne. The foreigner in question is now to
be carried “home” in an appeal to the Privy
Council, and consequently the circumstances con-
cerning him, which might otherwise have been
passed over in silence as merely one more proof of
the incomprehensibleness of law and the value of
Acts of Parliament as an agency for turning the
human hair grey, deserve a certain amount of
sorrowful attention. Ah Toy was one of 2GB
heathen who arrived in Port Phillip by the s.s.
Afghan, and, to quote the elaborate language of
the Full Court, he “ was then an immigrant arriv-
ing from ports beyond Victoria within the mean-
ing of the clause of the Immigrants’ Statute, 1865,
and the Chinese Act, 1881.” This one solid fact
is almost the only circumstance concerning Ah
Toy which has not been overturned and trodden
out of all human shape by British precedents and
the warring complications of international law.
According to the Act, however, theAfghanwas only
permitted to carry 14 Chinese in all, and Ah Toy,
being one of the surplus 254, found his attempts
to land frustrated by a gentleman who is stated at
length to be “a Collector of Customs within the
meaning of the last-mentioned Act.” The fact
that he is allowed to remain “ within the meaning
of the last-mentioned Act ” is also pretty nearly
the only consolation which is left to this harassed
and frantic official. These two gentlemen then
cleared the decks for litigation, and, after several
preliminary proceedings, the matter was referred
to the consideration of the Full Court.
* •
The Act under which the proceedings were
taken has the advantage of being one of the
clearest and most definite upon the Vietorian
Statue-book. Its two principal features are that
it imposes a poll-tax upon the intrusive Chinaman,
and that it strictly limits the number which any
vessel may carry in proportion to her tonnage;
and having laid down these two circumstances in
a manner which seems to the common, ordinary
mind of the lay student almost rudely emphatic,
it walks round them and hammers them in, and
hits them wherever it can reach them. Even
under a compound legal system which almost in-
variably resolves that an Act of Parliament means
something entirely different from what it says,
and never by any chance says what it means, the
matter appears to be too simple for dispute. But
under the searching eye of the Full Court difficul-
ties speedily arose, and these astounding clauses in
the Chief Justice’s judgment are the beginning of
the trouble: —
The defence on legal grounds to the action in both aspects
rests partly on the material allegation that the acts com-
plained of were done in obedience to the instructions of
her Majesty’s Victorian Government, but the pleadings
are silent aoout any advioe given by her Majesty's Govern-
ment to, or commands given to them by the Governor of
Victoria. It has been argued that it is consistent with the
allegations in the pleadings that the Governor was never
advised of this matter by the Ministers, and did not at
any time authorise or ratify their aot. The Attorngy-
General contended that under the constitutional system
of Victoria the prerogatives and powers of the Crown of
England might be considered indifferently to be vested
either in the Governor as the representative of the Crown,
or in the members of her Majesty's Government for Vic-
toria. In Ei gland, all prorogates and powers of govern
ment are lodged absolutely in the Sovereign. The Sove-
reign’s responsible advisers have no legal powers of
government whatever vested in them. They have the
right to advise the Sovereign, and it is their duty to obey
and carry into execution the act and commands of the
Sovereign founded upon such advice. The Constitution
Act, following the English exemplar, creates and vests in
the Governor certain powers, but Done in his advisers.
The Governor, appointed by the Sovereign, derives his
constitutional powers from the Constitution Act to
which the Sovereign assented. The Victorian Ministers
are appointed by the Governor They have no legal
powers of government whatever vested in them by the
Constitution Act. They have the right to exercise func-
tions of advising the Governor as the representative of
the Sovereign in the exercise of his statutory powers, and
their duty is to obey and carry into execution the act
and commands of the Governor founded upon such advice.
From this elaborate statement of the case several
things become evident. England, in her steady
and fossilised adherence to the outward signs and
symbols of the Dark Ages, although now a consti-
tutional country still preserves the forms of abso-
lutism, and consequently “all prerogatives and
powers of government are lodged absolutely in the
Sovereign.” Therefore the Victorian Full Cour
wants to know if the Governor, as the representa-
tive of the glorious muddlement of British law,
gave any “commands ” to the Victorian Ministry
and if it was in obedience to such commands that
the Chinese Act was first drafted. Failing posi-
tive evidence about these commands it becomes a
question whether the Act is worth the paper it is
written upon. This bald statement of-the position
of affairs cast a new light upon the advantages of
Constitutional Government in a colony where the
laws are interpreted by the light of the appalling
collection of dusty precedents and contradictory
statutes which England has stored up in the
lumber-room of her collective intelligence for a
long succession of ages, and though the presence
of the Act upon the Statue-book might be ac-
cepted by any unprofessional mind as sufficient evi-
dence that it was dragged through all its stages in
due course, the Full Court apparently experiences
a serious doubt upon the point.
A little further on, however, it transpires that
whether the Governor “commanded ” or did not
“command ” the Act is equally useless :
Is the allegation in the present ease that the responsible
Minister and Her Majesty’s Government for Victoria have
ratified and approved of the acts of the defendant in pre-
venting the plaintiff from landing, equivalent to an allega-
tion that Her Majesty has latified those acts ? Has Her
Majesty’s Government for Victoria power to advise the
Crown through the representative in Victoria upon a
question of this kind, so as to make that an act of State
which, without Her Majesty’s sanction or authority, ex-
pressed or implied would not be an aot of State? I am
of opinion that these questions must be answered in the
negative. Victoria, like other self-governing British
colonies, is a dependency of Great Britain. It possesses
by statute of law very large and, in my opinion, almost
plenary powers of internal self-government, but all the
prerogatives and powers of the Sovereign are not vested
by law in the representative in Victoria ; nor can all of
them be the subject of advioe to the Governor by the
Queen’s Ministers for Victoria. The prerogatives of war
and peace, negotiation and treaty, together with the
power of entering into relations of diplomacy or trade,
holding communication with other independent States,
to some one or all of which power to do an act whioh
shall constitute an act of State appears to be annexed,
have not been vested in the Governor of Victoria by law
express or implied.
From this further view of the circumstances it
appears that after all the Governor is not so large
a person as he might appear, and that “ Her
Majesty’s Government for Victoria ” is a very
small concern. For not only has the Cabinet no
power to introduce, or the Parliament to pass, an


Act of such vital importance to the country as
the measure providing for the exclusion of Chinese
immigrants, but neither has any right to advise the
Governor on the subjeeb, while the Governor in his
turn has no authority to listen to any advice, even
supposing it should be offered by a Minister bent on
working permanent and fatal damige <o the
British Constitution. In fact, among all the
parties concerned, not one is allowed by law to do
or say anything whatever in the matter, and
everything assumes an unfixed and unsatisfactory
condition which makes it evident that either the
British Constitution must be sacrificed by the
colonies as being deranged, impotent, and per-
manently unworkable, or else the Chinese must
have free access to Australia until the end of time.
The clause last quoted from the ponderous
judgment of the Full Court indirectly suggests
that the Victorian Chinese Act, if distinctly as-
sented to by the Crown, might possibly acquire
some status which would make it useful for obher
purposes than that of being deposited at the back
of the grate, but the depths of the incoherent and
unfixable are not yet reached, and there are other
resources in the British Constitution which make
it still more impossible to do anything without
falling over some antiquated precedent of the
past. These transpired towards the end of the
judicial circus, when Mr. Justice Williams rose
to ask —
Whether the prerogative of right to exclude aliens ever
existed in England, and whether, if it ever existed, it has
not fallen into disuse ?
The learned gentleman then proceeded to tread
out this sentiment, with the view of extracting all
the moral nourishment it contained. Apparently,
his final resolution was that no such authority as
that claimed existed anywhere, and that England,
like Australia, was utterly helpless, and had no
legal or international or possible means of exclud-
ing any Chinese or other hordes which might
choose to rush her territory. This pitiable con-
clusion was expressed in the bitter wail of a Banco
Court in its agony :
We have no legal means of preventing cargoes of alien
convicts, if sent to-morrow, from landing on these shores.
This miserable resolution was carried by a large
majority, Chief Justice Higinbotham and Judge
Kerfkrd only dissenting ; and the Court, having
entered judgment on behalf of Ah Toy, the same
being a Chinaman “ within the meaning of the
statute,” and having unfixed pretty nearly every-
thing which made it worth anyone’s while to be
a white man in Australia, rested from its labours.
*
The one tangible result of the case is that the
Chinaman and the British Constitution must go
together. The latter is evidently too uncertain
for use in an emergency. The painstaking study
of six judges has only succeeded in revealing its
immense capacity for prohibiting everything that
the present position of Australia demands, and it
presents no points of any kind to compensate for
these deficiencies. It nullifies Australian legisla-
tion against the Chinese, unless such legislation is
“commanded” by the Governor, and if it is “ com-
manded ”it nullifies it all the same. It prohibits
an Australian Cabinet from “advising” the
Governor on the subject, and chokes off His Ex-
cellency, should he manifest an inclination to
listen to such advice, and it prevents either the
Cabinet or the Governor “ advising ” the English
authorities on the subject. It casts discredit on
the Victorian Chinese Act on the ground that its
presence on the Statute-book is not sufficient evi-
dence that it was approved by the Queen’s repre-
sentative, and it further lays down the law that it
wouldn’t matter a Chinese curse even if it were so
approved, as it requires the direct sanction of the
Queen herself before it can become law. Further-
more, the Queen’s sanction wouldn’t make any
difference, because the Act itself is based on ad-
vice tendered by the Victorian instead of the Im-
perial Cabinet, and unless the Imperial Cabinet
can be induced to move in the matter nothing can be
done. And, lastly, even when the Imperial Cabinet
does move, it is doubtful if anything will ensue,
as the odds are ten to one that the British Consti-
tution has mixed things up till neither the Queen
nor the British House of Commons has any
authority to act at all. All these were the
gratifying results of a very brief investigation,
but the research of the six judges utterly failed
to reveal any provision for doing something
which might possibly compensate for those vast
resources in the way of preventing anything being
done. A Constitution which presents features so
eminently fitted for sitting still and doing nothing
is evidently unsuited to a progressive land, and
either the elaborate affair must learn to move or
Australia must move without it. The latter alter-
native is the more probable of the two. The
British Constitution is in many pieces as befits a
weapon of such imposing calibre, and it is more
than doubtful if any living statesman could gather
up all the fragments and set them in mot'on,
Possibly something may some day be done with
it, but it would be a work of time, and Australia,
with China at her gates, has little to spare _ The
resolution that the Mongolian must go remains as
firm as ever, and if the British legal system can-
not provide the machinery to make him start it is
just possible that the Victorian Full Court may
yet find scope for its talents in considering another
and a more portable Constitution—that of the
United States of Australia.
Mr. Ringnose Wise recently delivered his soul of
some remarks in which he attempted to show that
Free-trade was invariably identified with Liberal-
ism, while Conservatism, retrogression, bondage,
and Protection went hand-in-hand. On this sub-
ject the Australian Star sits on this half fledged
statesman as follows :
If, however, Mr. Wise really means that the modern
political parties hoisting the Free-trade flag are all
Liberals, then we take trie liberty of reminding bim that
the Democrats of the United States, who are now fighting
for Freetrade, are constituted to a large extent of the
men who were formerly the slave-owners in the southern
states, and who fought a bloody and expensive civil war
to maintain the negro in bondage. It was the Republic-
ans (or Protectionists) who resisted them, and emanci-
pated the slaves. Tne Southern planters were the back-
bone of the Free-trade party in the United States before
the abolition of slavery, and they are the same to-day.
it is no fault of these “Freetraders” that the stain of
negro serfdom does not rest upon the great Republic still.
Will Mr. Wise have the audacity to contend that these
ex-slaveowners are to be reckoned among the Liberals of
the world ? If he does, then the name of Liberalism has
simply been prostituted ; if he does not, then his asser-
tion was as silly as it was untruthful. Let us now take
Mr. Wise nearer home, and ask him who won the great
reforms that have been accomplished in the neighbouring
colony of Victoria ? Was it the Freetrade party or the
Protectionist ? The same remark will apply to Queens-
land and South Australia. Let Mr. Wise also glance at
Germany, and ask if it was not the Protectionist Bismarck
who created that great nation, and gave the impulse to
her industries that bids fair to make her one of the greatest
manufacturing countries of the world, In France, all
the great leaders of the people, such as Thiers and Gam-
bf.tta, were Protectionists, but it was Louis Napoleon,
the despot and assassin of liberty, who endeavoured to
carry out a Freetrade policy there, to the great distress
of the French people. Coming back to New South Wales,
we may ask who are the opponents of payment of mem-
bers, liberal land laws, Protection, the Eight-hour Bill,
and other progressive measures? Truth must prompt
Mr. Wise to reply—Sir Henry Parkes and other mem-
bers of the so-called Freetrade party.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Unions versus the Blacklegs.
With a touching unanimity every one of the
“ stupid papers,” at every one of the centres of
population all over Australia, raises the same fierce
and lugubrious howl over the “ intimidation ” of
the blacklegs by the miners on strike. They froth
against the “ tyranny of Labour.” The argu-
ment is this. Is a man free, or is he not, to sell
his labour as he pleases ? Of course the answer
is “Yes.” Very well, then, the miners must be
prevented from preventing the blacklegs selling
their labour as they please, and the holy cause of
Liberty must be vindicated. The reply to this alleged
reply is a simple one. The liberty of a man becomes
licence when it entails suffering on his fellows,
Everyone admits this in certain conditions. It is
only when these conditions affect men’s pockets
that they suddenly develope a ferocious taste for
freedom. Take an example. Has a man, or has
he not, the right to dispose of his sewage as he
pleases ? Has he, or has he not, a right to fling
it out into his garden and leave it there to
fester and stink till it can stink and fester no
more? All society denies that right. And why?
Because his action entails suffering on others.
Wherefore he is compelled, both by usage and
by law, to dispose of his superfluous garbage as
society shall direct. Apply this example else-
where. Has a man, or has he not, a right
to work overtime if he pleases? He has not, if his
fellows object. And why ? Because if he works
overtime, competition compels all his fellows to do
the same; competition drives them all to a des-
perate struggle for work at any wages bhat will
support existence, and suffering, degradation,
disease, and premature death afflict them all. The
case is as clear with this man as with the other
man. Take, lastly, the case of the blackleg
miners. They represent no percentage at all in
proportion to those who have solemnly decided
that they will strike for a cause which they
believe to be just. The blackleg is ready to let
his class perish utterly, if he can put a few
pounds in his own pocket. Well, his class takes
the only means it has left to get at a selfish or
ignorant creature like this. It frightens him This
“ intimidation ” is justified. It is useless to talk
of “law and order,” when “law and order,” as
they exist, are merely the creation of the Capital-
istic class, who would have been fools indeed not
to create what suited their pockets. This “in-
timidation ” is the protest against this iniquity.
Let the fight be fair, Capital versus Labour, but
no bringing in the soldiers and Nordenfeldt guns
on behalf of one party and against the other.
That is wrong, it is a crime ! All of us pay taxes.
The taxes pay the police and the soldiers. The
police and the soldiers are the servants of us all,
not of that class or this. Let us understand it.
Let the police, too, understand it, and the soldiers.
One dreary capitalistic rag talked about “ turning
the Nordenfeldt” on the miners. Let them try it.
Australian Democrats have nob yet learned to
shoot one another for the sake of a pack of greasy
monopolists. If it comes to wanton shooting
there will be lead enough to go round.
•
The Independent Press.
At a journalistic dinner the other day, a well-
known editor was called upon to reply for the
Press. At first he vigorously refused, bub his
friends having determined that he should speak,
in seeming desperation, he delivered himself of the
following diatribe :
There is no such thing on this Continent as an indepen-
dent Press, unless it is out in the country towns, and the
printers’brokers have mostly got a bill-of-sale over that.
You are all slaves. You know it and I know it. There is
not .one of you who dares to express an honest opinion.
If you expressed it, you would know beforehand that it
would never appear In print. I am paid a large salary for
keeping honest opinions out of the paper I am connected
with. Other of you are paid similar salaries for doing
similar things. If I should allow honest opinions to be
printed in one issue of my paper, like Othello, my occu-
pation would be gone. The man who would be so f >olish
as to write honest opinions would be out on tae street
hunting for another job. The business of a leading
journalist is to distort the truth, to lie outright, to per-
vert, to vilify, to fawn at the feet of Mammon and sell his
country and his race for his daily bread, or far what is
about the same thing, his salary. You know this and I
know it; and what foolery to be toasting an “Indepen-
dent Press !” We are the tools and vassals of rich men—
of syndicates behind the soenes. We are the Jumping-
Jacks. They pull the strings and we dance. Our time,
our talents, our possibilities, are ail the property of other
meD. We are intellectual prostitutes.
The reader who has followed us thus far is, doubt-
less, surprised at this unprecedented outspoken-
ness on the part of the usually invertebrate Aus-
tralian scribe. From the tenor of the speech,
and its pointed allusions, he has no difficulty in
recognising Editor , of that well-known
morning paper, the as the speaker. He
is mistaken. These bitter words might have been
uttered by that gentleman had he suddenly been
rendered independent of Australian literary em-
ployment, but, as a matter of fact, the orator was
a New York “ slave of the pen,” and our clipping
is from the Chicago Labour Enquirer Never-
theless it does not contain one word inapplicable
to the Australian metropolitan Press, as its atti-
tude towards the “striking” coal hewers clearly
indicates.
»
The Christian in the Far North.
“ Gauntlet,” writing in the correspondence
column of the Northern Miner (Charters
Towers, Q.), raises again the ancient indictment
concerning the wholesale slaughter of the black
population by the white Christian who has seized
upon their lands. It is the same old story of mid-
night and daylight assassination, treachery,
bloodshed, hypocrisy, cruelty, and immorality
which has been told in almost every land where the
European has come in contact with and dis-
possessed a feeble native population. The men by
whom these outrages are perpetrated are members
of that race which claims to be the protector of
the oppressed all the world over, and the tale of
their atrocities is identical with the tales which,
when their scene was laid in Bulgaria instead of
Australia, roused the whole Anglo-Saxon race to
an outburst of virtuous wrath and holy reproach.
It is the story, on a smaller scale, of India over
again; the tragedy which the British alleged
Christian enacted in Jamaica, Burmah, Egypt,
and a hundred other scenes of massacre, and
which the same snuffling Christian will continue
to enact so long as he is strong enough to kill and
someone else is weak enough to be killed. The
accusations of the Northern Miner are only a
repetition of the story which has been recorded
in print ever since print was first invented
Near here I lately found an expensive troupe of black
police, with attendant horses, being' fed on maize at
a guinea a bushel, flour and sugar. Everybody in the
place hated them, and their red-handed gallant (?) com-
mander. Let any man, who has a wish to become dis-
satisfied with being a Queenslander, get a little acquainted
with a sergeant or inspector of the black police. I have
heard tales from them that made one believe the fiend
hims If was boasting, not the so. l of a worna-v Fifty miles
east of town a man was kept till lately (I am given to
understand this is often done in the Gulf country) whose
sole business was hunting and killing the aboriginals of
the land stolen from them. I saw two places on this run
where native camp 3 had been surrounded by the cowardly
white men at night. Bones and grinning skulls, several
being those of children, told of the bloody deed. What
had che3e poor wretches done ? Their game disturbed,
and driven away by the squatter, tney had speared some
cattle. Those who remember the case of Nicholes, the
police inspector, will know I do not exaggerate. Close to
Cairns the following lately took place At a mining
camp where nothing had been stolen by the natives for
months, three natives ran by a miner’s tent one evening.
Going into town next day the said miner mentioned this,
but did not ask for assistance. The neighbouring ser-
geant of black police with four “boys,” however, appears
at the camp in a few days. As night falls the light of a
native oamp Are is sparkling away on a mountain range
some four miles off. No one knows, or cares, if these par-
ticular natives had committed the crime of running by a
miner's tent. Taking a “boy ” by the shoulder, the ser-
geant points out the fire, and soon after the four troopers
steal off into the gloom, armed to the teeth and naked
save for their cartridge-belts. The sergeant remains
behind, and in about an hour and a half the sound of nine
shots coming rapidly one after another is heard. Presently
the “ boys” again appear, with spears and dilly-bags, and
tell, amongst other horrid details, tbat they have de-
spatched “plenty fellow piooaninnie ” with their toma-
hawks. But who that knows the Gulf cannot remember
instances of children stolen from their parents, reared as
slaves, or worse, and shot for being disobedient. No
arrests are made, because no Northern jury
will convict. Each Government that comes into
power winks at the slaughter of our wretohed
black fellow-subjects of the Queen, as an easy way
of getting rid of the native question. I do not
blame the settler, who, in hot blood, prevents further
depredations on his orops by a fatal shot. Yet, even
here, there is a grimly oomie side. You find a native of
the Emerald Isle shooting the original owner of the soil,
whilst he is never tired of aiding any movement against
the hated Saxon, who, in a muoh milder fashion, ousted
his ancestors from their land. The fact, however, re-
mains that this wholesale destruction of innocent life (in
the case of young women and children at any rate) is
going on ; it has gone on for 15 years now in Queens-
land. If this murdering, abducting children for im-
moral purposes, stook-whipping defenceless gins—all of
which can easily be proved—is going on, will the honour-
able portion of the Queensland people continue to shut
their eyes to the same ? Sages tell us a national, like an
individual sin, is punished on the earth. Beware,
Queenslanders, lest the punishment for the sins of you,
the fathers, fall upon your children of the next generation.
The Jwriter concludes by expressing his resolve
to start a crusade on behalf of the unhappy natives
and to spare no effort to put an end to the process
of wholesale massacre by which they are being
exterminated. The Law and the Gospel have
looked idly on at hideous holocausts which have
made even merciful men long for a Material Hell
as the only means which could ever make the
account square, and the history of Queensland has
been filled with unconsidered atrocities—with
murder, rape, torture, and unspeakable miseries
which were calculated to make the heavens —if
any heavens there be—fall in vengeance. The
man who would commence a single-handed
warfare against this appalling system is filled
with a noble ambition, but he has a large
order on hand and almost a hopeless one,
Unless man can be abolished altogether
nothing can save a feeble and helpless race from
extermination by one strong enough to extermi-
nate it. Law and justice, Christianity and hell,
religion, reason, philosophy, superstition, hu-
manity, civilisation, respectability, and every
other motive combined are of no account in such a
case. Man is the same all the world over, and
his case is the more hopeless because of the dense
coating of hypocrisy and snuffle which always
makes him incapable of comprehending his own
iniquity. The whole Anglo-Saxon race shuddered
at the Turkish massacres in Bulgaria, and the
Turk, who saw little to complain of in his own
case, is probably filled with equal horror and
loathing at the slaughter by red-coated British
butchers of unarmed men, women, and Children
in Burmah. The Australian is aghast at the
cold-blooded massacres perpetrated by the Eng-
lish troops in Egypt and the hideous barbarities
wrought in Ireland ; and England, which preaches
and prays over these things as holy works, is roused
to the bitterest indignation at the rumours of
deeds done by Australian traders and labour
agents in the coral islands cf the South Seas.
America, which is steadily wiping the red men
off the face of the earth, was filled with pity for
the Sepoys whom Britain first drove into rebellion
and then slaughtered wholesale to teach them the
beauties of humanity, and she offers money and
sympathy in lavish profusion to the oppressed
Irishman, and the Iristiman emigrates to Queens-
land and cheerfully shoots the helpless aborigines
while cursing the men who shot at him in his
native bogs. Everywhere man is the same, and
between the Coristian and the savage there is no
appreciable difference. Either the white Aus-
tralian must be abolished or the black Australian
must go. Some day, probably, the white Aus-
tralian will be exterminated in his turn and then
his victims will be fully avenged ; and, again, in
the course of the centuries the race which abolished
him will be abolished by some new invader, and so
the process goes on. No race ever learns anything
by the fate of the one which preceded it, and
every race snuffles with equal unction over the
atrocities perpetrated by some other nation, which
on its part echoes the snuffle back. A faculty for
repenting over sins which someone else has done
is the ear-mark of modern religion, and probably
the priests and prophets of a thousand centuries
ago repented in just the same way.
♦
La»v and Labom*.
The New South Wales Criminal Law Amend-
ment Act empowers two justices of the peace to
imprison for six months anyone who by threat of
violence obstructs any person in working at his
lawful trade or employment. The clause deter-
mining this was, it is admitted, put in the Bill to
afford non-unionists, at a time of strike, security
against impetuous strikers. The framers of the
clause were men of foresight. Their law did not
simply beat the wind or lie inoperative on a page
of the Statute Book. It stood there as a menace
when a strike was announced, and, the other day,
armed the police and set .authority on its end
But whatever the outcome of its operation has
been, or will be, the law from the start was bad.
It swept into one net those who obstructed non-
unionists with threats and those who persecuted
them with bricks. The Code actually made both
offences liable to the same punishment. But,
what is a threat ? Among the class for whom the
law was devised the commonplaces of daily con-
versation could be, when illuminated by the legal
mind, set down as threats. It stands proven,
therefore, that the intention of the lawmakers
was to so gird with terror men on strike that they
would not dare to meet and talk during the time
they were off work. As in most cases they live
alongside their field of work, their common talk
with one another in the street is liable to
be construed into a threat of obstructing someone
on his way to work. When violence takes place be-
tween unionists and non-unionists it seldom
amounts to more than common assault, and that
the law decrees six months’ imprisonment, and in
a court of two justices, for that offence indicates
how much more heinous in the eyes of the law-
makers violence is when perpetrated to further
the ciuse of strikers than elsewhere. But what
can be thought of a law which ordains this punish-
ment for even a threat of this common assault ?
Some years ago Mr. Fletcher, M.P., denouncing
the tenor of this clause, said that in the northern
districts there were men who never worked, who
were engaged as spies, and who got men punished
by representing that threats were used against
them when they were going to and from their
work. There can b 9 no doubt of the truth of
this. Human nature would not be human nature
if there were not men to be found ready to second
the purpose of a bad law. In England the
punishment for intimidation in such cases is
limited to three months and provision is made for
fines. It must be borne in mind that six
months' imprisonment has not been looked at as
punishment for serious injuries inflicted by a
unionist on a non-unionist. If the injury be
serious the assailant is indicted on a charge of in-
flicting grave bodily harm, and becomes liable to
any penalty short of hanging—and to hanging
itself in some cases. The clause we refer to con-
cerns only common rows and common threats, and
we repeat that it alone is conclusive proof that the
spirit of New South Wales legislation is the foe
of Labour and the ally of Capital.
♦
White Slavery.
A Sheffield grinder recently dropped dead from
starvation. During the previous week he had
sharpened 108 blades, thus earning ss, from
which princely sum 4s were deducted for wheel-
hire and the use of tools, thus leavirg him one
nimble shilling for house-rent, to clothe, feed, and
educate a family. At the inquest no one was cen-
sured. the coroner giving it as his opinion that—
“ If the man chose to work for such wages, he was
a free agent, and no one had any right to object.”
This is precisely the argument used by the Tory
Press the wide world over regarding strikes, the
argument advanced from day to day by the
Sydney dailies regarding the attitude of the coal-
hewers towards “scab ” labour. The miner, finding
his wages not sufficient for his daily wants enters
a protest against his treatment by stopi ing work.
Some enforced idler comes along, perhaps a degree
less civilised or with fewer mouths to fill, and
jumps at the wages scorned by the other. He in
turn is displaced by less intelligent, more animal
labour, Mongol or Kanaka, and so the process of
reducing the miner’s earnings to the Sheffield
standard, starvation point, moves merrily onward.
It pays the capitalist to starve men to death, they
are plentiful, and the struggle for existence is so
keen that some needy one can always be found in
the over-crowded marts of labour prepared to
undersell his fellow-worker, no matter how low
the remuneration. “ What odds,” drivels the
daily Press, “ the worker is a free agent;
if he is willing to work at starvation rates
no one has any right to object, moreover
his right to depreciate the selling value
of the labour of others must be maintained by
force if necessary. The labourer’s right to work
must be upheld.” As a matter of fact, it is the
employer’s right to grind flesh and blood to pulp
in return for a pittance that is being upheld; for
the worker in no sense of the term is a free
agent. The private ownership of land, the pos-
session of the implements of industry, the mono-
poly of opportunities endow the modern slave-
owner with the power to compel the latter-day
serf to submit to his terms, no matter how unjust.
Local strikes, even when successful, are a poor
weapon ; only a world-wide strike can be of more
than momentary benefit. It is true that the
modern Simon Leg ref cannot flog the white
slave —that is the only advantage owned by the
latter over his black-skinned brother; in every other
way the other is the more fortunate. The interest
of the employer in his workers terminates at his
gates. He cares not how rapid their death-rate,
the cost of burial falls on the “lodge,” not on his
shoulders, and no one dares to point a finger at
the church deacon clothed in broadcloth and im-
maculate linen. A brutal, bigoted coroner and a
venal Press unite in saying that the blood of this
starved-to-death man is on his own head, for was
he not a free agent —free to starve when idle, free
to starve when employed ? He bad h’s choice—
rapid starvation on one hand, lingering starvation
on the other; he chose the latter ; his employer
leaves the court without a stain on his character.
This is the doctrine of Nineteenth Century civili-
sation, as expounded by those who pose as the re-
presentatives of refinement, the conserveis of
morality and good order. What a mockery ! On
one side unlimited wealth and luxurious idleness,
on the other gaunt-eyed Poverty and worn-out
Toil. Surely the world still awaits a Redeemer.
A. Curious Contrast,
When the case of the society defaulter
E. B. Holt was in its preliminary stages the
New South Wales law-authorities combined
and conspired to treat their self-convicted
prisoner as an innocent man albeit that his
guilt was beyond all legal doubt. When the
case of the honourable and hardworking citizens
who were accused of sympathising with an al-
leged disturbance at Adamstown came under
notice the authorities persisted in treating them
as criminals before any evidence whatever had
been taken. Holt had broken his employers’ trust,
wasted the shareholders’ money committed
to .his charge in adulterous profligacy with a most
filthy and notorious specimen of the Nana tribe,
bolted with the balance of his plunder, and run
his head into a policeman’s stomach to compel his
capture when his money was gone. Eddens,
Evans, and Frith, peaceable and honest meD,
holding civic office and places of trust, had gone
out with their fellow-workmen, whose passions
the very first witness —a hostile one —plainly
proved they had tried to calm. Y et Holt was treated
by the authorities with every possible consideration
while eyery conceivable harshness was heaped
upon Evans, Eddens, and Frith. Holt was not
permitted to take his place in the cage with
ordinary prisoners nor to share the accommoda-
tion “Black Maria” provides fo,r their transit.
The police brought him to court in a cab every
day and he awaited in the magistrates’.room the
hour of examination. Had these same police
authorities had their way, Messrs. Evans, Eddens
and Frith would have passed the week before
the preliminary hearing of their case in gaol. Yet
they were entitled to the fullest benefit of the
legal presumption of innocence, while Holt’s own
actions had proclaimed his absolute acknowledge-
ment of guilt. So far as the police and the magis-
trates are concerned, the contrast is complete in
itself and disgraceful beyond all description.
But all the dirty features of this case are
not disposed of when this contrast is noted
—far from it. That the police and the
police magistrate should unite in the attempt
to deprive honest and respectable British subjects
of their indefeasible right to bail is bad enough.
It is far worse that the Premier should by his
interference throw the whole weight of Govern"
ment into the scale against the accused, and that
the Chief Justice of the colony should degrade the
ermine by becoming practically counsel for the
Crown, and giving a legal opinion on a case which


had not yet come before any court of law what-
ever, The Premier had no right whatever to
interfere with the course of justice, no right to ask
the honorary magistrates their reason for any
course they chose to take in the performance of
their duty, and none to request the opinion of
the Chief Justice or to communic-te in any
official capacity with anybody whomsoever. In
the list of his duties it is expressly set down
that he cjrresponds with benches of magis-
trates “except upon legal questions,” and he
has no more title to write to them upon
any legal matter than he has to advise
Prince Bismarck concerning the administration
of Strasburg. Sir Frederick Darley’s conduct
is even worse than that of Sir Henry Parkes.
The latter person has always publicly proclaimed
himself as superior to law, as beyond all con-
siderations of order, and as defiant of the
bounds of precedent—except when it suits him-
self But the Chief Justice is the head and
guardian of the law, the conservator of order, and
the arbiter of legal etiquette. When Sir Henry
Parkes so far forgot his duty as to ask his opinion
of the conduct of the magistrates, he ought at
once to have referred him to the Attorney-General
as the only proper and official legal adviser of the
Government. The whole disgraceful proceeding
shows a settled determination to strain
the provisions of the law and the power
of the Government against these men, yet
Mr. Thomas, the manager for the company
Whose interests are at stake, deposed that EvaNs
and Eddens did all they could to keep the miners
peace! ul and quiet, and stated that “ had it not
been for their exertions there would have been
bloodshed.” What, then, is their real crime, and
why did the police try to prevent them from being
admitted to bail, and why did the police magis-
trate refuse to grant them bail, and why did the
Chief Secretary bully the honorary magistrates
who did accept their bail, and why did the Chief
Justice condescend to answer a letter which Sir
Henry Parkes had no right to write, but which,
if written at all, should have been written by the
Minister of Justice to the Attorney-General ? The
reply to all these questions is found in the fact
that Eddens, Evans, and Frith are workmen
opposing capitalists, and are therefore abhorred
by the officials of every grade. Holt was the
parasite of one set of capitalists and the partner of
another. Consequently he, unlike Eddens,
Evans and Frith, was treated with a certain
amount of consideration which is always given
only to assured capitalised social rank. Of course,
The Bulletin sees no reason why a man should
not be treated with that consideration and delicacy
for his sensibilities during the period intervening
between his arrest and his conviction ; but let
such treatment be level all round, to the banker
no more than to the toiler should any special
mitigation be shown.
»
The actual question at issue between the miners
and the masters at Newcastle (N.S.W.) has been
carefully falsified by the capitalistic organs, and
their alleged “democratic ” fellows have confused
it as carefully. It lies right here. The miners
are paid for the coal as it goes into the trucks and
is ready for use. This would be all very well if
the seams were made entirely of good coal, but
that is not the case. The men have often to work
through poor or quite worthless seams, and for
most of this they do not receive a penny. The
inspectors are the judges of whether the coal is
good enough or not, and be sure they
do their best to wring out their pound
of flesh from the men, and over a
pound, too. Readers of Emile Zola’s magni-
ficent “ Germinal ” will rememberthe utterly
criminal system of heartless robbery which is
worked out there upon the miners till they and
their wives and children are degraded below the
level of brute beasts. It is not asserted that the
Newcastle miners have been ground down to the
appalling state of misery that made the revela-
tions of the Decazeville strikes seem impossible.
It is because the men Eee the tendency things are
taking—see that in 20 or 30 years, if they
keep giving way, now on this point and
now on that, they will end as their fellows
in England and the Continent have ended—
that they have braced themselves up to
the struggle while there is yet a hope of victory.
There is scarcely an Australian politician who will
not get up and spout about the Australian Demo-
cracy and thank his Maker (instead of the Trades
tin ions) for keeping up our workmen’s wages, and
the eight hours’ system, and “ our sturdy, self-
respecting lower orders,” and all that'cant.» But
when the test comes, and it is Labour fighting
with Monopoly and Capital to save itself from de-
gradation, why, who are the first to get up and
talk about “the tyranny of Labour,” “wanton
waste,” and the rest ? The proof of the pudding
is said to be in the eating. If a man cares for the
cause of Labour and a Democracy of men instead
of dogs (as they have in the dear old “ home ”),
now is the time to show it. Strengthen the hands
of those who are fighting for Labour and Demo-
cracy. That cause is the same in every shape, in
every age, in every clime. The Newcastle miners
fighting the capitalistic Monopolists are fighting
in the same cause as the Irish peasants fighting
the Land Law Monopolists. Land and syndicated
Capital are the two bloated parasites of Labour,
the murderous step-parents of Democracy !
+
A while back The Bulletin ventured to assert
that General Gordon was an heroic case of re-
ligious mania, and that he was himself responsible
for his “martyrdom” at Khartoum. We also
pointed out that this extraordinary Christian had
personally annulled any number of his brethren
in what might almost be called cold blood. And
now we find Lord Wolseley, in the latest number
(bo hand) of the Fortniohtly Review, writing of
Gordon :
The world was to him a sort of prison. . . . While
ip this mundane prison he tried to do God!s bidding with
that unbounded sympathy for the sufferings of all animal,
creation that was one of his most remarkable character-
istics. And yet he had absolutely no regard, for human
life. To die, to be killed, oj to kill , was as muoh a matter
of course to him as to be born. He was made up of op-
posite qualities.
•fust. so. He would devote half a day to
bathing the hind leg of a lame dog, and then
sbroll out and kill an Arab for some small breach
of discipline. General Gordon, as a suitable sub-
ject for sermons and marble statues, is now an ex-
ploded notion. H 0 was a crank whose crankiness
has only lately become generally known. Yet it
should have been patent to the world that a man
who goes about with his Bible in one hand and his
sword in the other must be mad or a hypocrite.
Gordon was not even a patriot. He devoted
many years to educating Chows in the bloody art
of war, and complacently talked of the time when
all the people of the earth would wear pigtails.
Which reminds us—ls the Melbourne statue to be
inscribed “Chinese ” Gordon ?
Ladies’ wire dress-stands for draping dresses on
—you can have them skirts only, plain, or with
extending skirts, full figure, plain, or with extend-
ing skirt and bust—at the Wire Works, Eaetway’s,
411 George street, Sydney.
JLowl Cailngton on the Stump.
IM Ih* ij 1 M •'l Itv -
At the recent opening of the new Town Hall at
Leichhardt by the Governor and the Premier of
New South Wales, the aldermen spread a banquet
and under its genial influence Lord Carington
unwound himself in a speech of an extra-
ordinary character with no special reference to
the objects of the /e?e. He recognised, he paid,
the growing danger of over-crowding. The popu-
lation of the continent was steadily increasing,
but if Australia was to become the great nation’
which we all hoped she would become, we
should oile day find ourselves face to face
with a large industrial population living in towns.
The value of land in Sydney was going up, and it
would become daily more difficult for those whose
occupations obliged them to live in central districts
to obtain accommodation. Back courts would be
built and let out at exorbitant prices, and we
should have all the horrors and debasement of the
single-room system. There is nothing new in all
this. The Bulletin has time and again insisted
that Australia burdened with the class and pro-
perty laws imported from England was steadily
travelling towards the same goal. What that
goal was Lord Carinuton very graphically de-
scribed. In 1884, a Royal Commission was
appointed to inquire into the condition of the
housing of the working classes in England, and
Lord Carington, as representative of the Local
Government Board in the House of Lords, was
put on that Commission. I n company with the
Prince of Wales and Dr. Buchanan he visited
the most crowded and poorest parts of London—
viz., Sb. Pancras, Clerkenwell, etc., and had there-
fore the fullest opportunities of seeing all the miser' 7
and wretchedness of an aggravated system of bruta
and unmitigated landlordism. Lord Caringto
in lurid colours painted what he there saw, but h
neglected to mention that the most hideousl
wretched parish in London (St. Pancras) is th
property of the Duke of Bedford, one of the clas
Lord Carington represents. After detailing th
wretchedness of the three million or so of peopl
who grub along in the heart of London in orde
that three titled millionaires may make greate
fortunes than it is possible for them to spend,
tried they never so hardly, the Governor fatuously
remarks :
. Matthew Arnold may talk of an upper class material-
ised, a middle-class vulgarised, and a lower class brutal
ised : no doubt there is much cruelty, misery, and orime
but we should not listen to these doctrines.
And why, pray ? Are they true or are they not
Blink them as we please, if they are true thev
will gather force in secret till the flood-wave o
revolution overwhelms us. No doubt, Lore
Carington and the order to which his father or
grandfather by success in trade gained admission
hnd it convenient to shut their eyes to the truth
L his is the ostrich-trick over again. They
fancy because they cannot see the truth
that it is not. Lord Carington does not stanc
alone. He is the prototype of the religion of in
difference, and Mrs. General, immortalised by
Dickens, is his grandmother. She was careful
always to look over what she cared not to look on.
No doubt there is much cruelty, misery, anc
crime. No doubt there is, but what is worse,
Lord Carington, there is no doubt at all that
nine-tenths of the cruelty is the outcome of class
oppression, nine-tenths of the misery is inflicted
by your order upon the minds and bodies of men,
nine-tenths of the crime is the consequence of the
ignorance in which the rich, for their own benefit,
find it advantageous to keep the poor. “We
should not listen to these doctrines.” No, we
should not, because those who listen will have
none of the class-tyranny represented even in your
own person, by your own rank; commemorated
m your own office, rewarded in your own emolu-
l-n a wondrous burst of eloquence, the
N.S.W. Governor next remarked :
The same courage which enables an emperor to win the
battles of Sadowa and Woerth, and without a murmur to
face a, malignant malady and an awful death, makes the
breadwinner c f a family face the deadly fire-damp in the
attempt to rescue his entombed comracf s The
same womanly feeling which prompts the poor tired
ballet drudge to sit up night after night with a sick
friend causes the Prinees3 of Wales day after day to visit,
and with her own hands to foment ard poult : ce and
bandage the ulcerated legs of a poor old bed-ridden
woman in a Sandringham cottage till she gels all right
and out to work again,
This is childish ! Let us have all the misery and
calamity, cruelty, and crime there are in the
world, says his Lordship, because they have ren-
dered us some half-dozen instances of heroism.
No! say we, we will yield up the heroism, the
miserable percentage there is of it, compared to
all the festering corruption that is not heroism.
Give us more happiness, more humanity, less
cruelty, and suffering—Lord Carington can have
Woerth and Sadowa and all the fire-damp in the
world. We would abolish war by altruism, and
fight fire-damp with science. Possibly His Ex-
cellency will not put in a plea for their re-
tention because they have yielded a few
instances of courage or devotion. And
if we abolish war and fire-damp why
not poverty and psychologic want ? And
this flourish of trumpets over the dead Fred-
erick of Germany ! It is idiotic ! What of the
courage and devotion of the millions in both the
French and German armies ; of the people who
had no empire to win or to lose; of those who
gave their life’s-blood for an idea, for a love of
fatherland, and who laid down their bodies in
death on the red battle-field, or who limped back
to poverty and want and misery, to a death-bed
unwatched and untended, not like that of Fred-
erick of Germany—what of these and their cour-
age ? For the kindness of the Princess of Wales we
have only appreciation. Her sweetness and good-
ness serve to discount somewhat the gluttony and
animalism of her husband, but after all it is not
so high a virtue as that of the ballet-girl of whom
Lord Carington speaks, sitting tired and weary
there by the bedside of her friend ! The Princess
of Wales does well, but not, we trust, better than
any one of our mothers. Even goodness becomes
gilded with rank—a thing which should never be.
Fii'om the great we should expect great actions.
If Lord Carington is in earnest, why does not he
become President of the New South Wales Land
Nationalisation League ? We are sure they would
be pleased to have him so.
Mr. William Foster Horniman, assistant-
paymaster of H.M.S. Opal, shot himself dead in
his cabin on Monday morning in Sr dney Har-
bour. The cause of the sad occurrence is said to
hftve been a love-affair.
The late Mr. Shepherd Smith, general
manager of the Bank of New South Wales, once
said to a customer : “ Lending money is like pour-
ing wine from a bottle; it flows out with a rush.
But collecting lent money is as difficult and
laborious as pouring wine back into a bottle with-
out a funnel.” This aphorism is good, despite the
fact that when you pour cun Hookings’ old
colonial wine you don’t want to pour it back into
the bottle. You simply pour it down your neck,
unless you are debilitated and happen to be drink-
ing Hockings’ old invalid port, in which case you
sip a small glassful three times a day. Cellars,
George-street, near King street, Sydney.
The Referee.
rheA.J.C. Spiing meeting has come and
gone without showing us anything very wonder-
ful. Abercorn and the Peer had their usual go-in
at each other, which resulted in the Peer winning
over a mile-anda-half, and Abercorn over amile-
and-a-quarter, while the latter beat the Peer for
second place in the three-mile race. The fact
seems to be that if Abercorn has any advantage
it is in his dash of foot) while the Peer is the
better over a long course when the race is run
from end to end. He is a magnificently strong horse,
and if he and Abercorn were started together
on a long journey the Peer would knock up
three or four Abercorns This is the right sort of
a horse to breed from. The three-mile race was a
great bit of sport. The boy on Wycombe made
the pace and stole a march on the others, and as he
passed the stand the second time the trainer ran
out to the end of the Leger stand and yelled at the
boy to go on and give them the slip. He waited
till he was just rounding the turn and was hidden
from the other horses by the crowd, and then he
set sail in real earnest, and by the time the others
found out what he was up to he was about a fur-
long ahead. They leathered along after him, but
it was no go, and he won by 50 yards. The noble
Australian public hooted Mr. Gannon, the owner
of Wycombe (who is also the owner of Australian
Peer), as they seemed to have an idea that the
Pe;-r was not allowed to try, and that it suited the
stib!e better for Wycombe to win. This was pure
rot, for the Peer was ridden right out, and, in fact,
swerved in the run home, showing that he had not
much in hand; and, further, the Peer was at 6to
4 while Wycombe was at 10 to 1, showing that
Mr. Gannon could not have backed him for much.
They have a capital lot of horses in that stable—
Arsenal, Australian Peer, Melos, Touchstone, and
Wycombe amongst others. Wait till the Mel-
bourne Cup meeting comes on and that crowd go
down to Flemington backed up by Abercorn and
Ensign! All the blue bonnets will be over the
border then with a vengeance. Heaven send that
they bring back to Sydney plenty of Victorian
money, for Sydney wants it now badly enough.
Certain of the Victorian contingent who visited
the Beautiful Harbour this time thought they
could make a little pile out of the thick-headed,
sWgoing Sydneyites. They ran a mare called
the INun in a couple of races and took precautions
to prevent her winning, so as to make a big pile
out of one of the last handicaps of the meeting.
It was said that they put their own friends on to
back her in one of the races for which the went
out first favourite, and the friends were taken in.
However, on the morning of the day on which
they meant to really send her, the stewards issued
an invitation and horse, owner and jockey were
disqualified for life, the latter pair being at
once escorted out of the paddock. The jockey,
Moore, who med to ride under the name of St.
Albans and had a high place in his trade, looked
dreadfully down-h< arted and miserable. It is no
joke for a man, who has been all his life a jockey,
to have to think that he has made his last public
appearance in the “pigskir,” that he will no more
feel the
“ Rushing wind in his fac3
At the middist bound of the glorious pace
In the wild, exulting revel, 1 ’
and that he will never again feel the intense satis-
faction of pulling the favourite’s head half off as
they sweep r. und the bend into the straight. It
served them right enough. They visited Sydney
for wool, and were sent home shorn. The Com-
mittee inspected the volume of one bookmaker
who was supposed to have been “in the know,”
and it was found that he bad laid against nothing
but the Nun ; page after page consisted of wagers
against her. at all sorts rf odds. It is not con-
sidered ad visable for a bookmaker to lay against
only one horse, because if that horse wins he gets
a knock, but if he has arranged beforehand that
that hone shan’t win, it is a magnificent way to
make a book. The Steeplechase fell to Marmion,
who used to run in flat races about Goulburn side
but is now owned in Victoria. Ruby fell, and a
horse called L«st King, who was winning in a
walk, fell over the last jump, and finished third.
Old bcobeloff ran second. They ought to change
Last King’s name to Last Fence now.
* * *
The Kemp-Hanlan boat procession has
eventuated as usual A desperate conflict for
half a mile, an alleged foul, a paddle home for
Kemp and heaps of excuses for Hanlan. Why
doesn’t he give us a rest? The Canadian has
been turning the cardie at both hands, trying to
live a gay and festive life and keep in training at
the same time, and he can t do it 5 he will never
trouble first-class men again. Kemp and Searle
are to row in a month. Searle has been in strict
training for four or five months now and doing
harder work than is usual even for old seasoned
athletes while he is a mere boy only 22 years c f
age. For these reasons Kemp will probably teat
him this time, but if he is given a spell and comes
at it fresh and vigorous he will win. He is
Kemp’s doom, right enough, sooner or later. He
is a wonderful man for endurance, and can rally
up after a hard spurt and get a second and third
and fourth wind in a marvellous manner. The old-
time sculling champioD, Bill Hickey, was such
another. When Hickey’s h<=ad went down on his
chest it looked as if he were done, but it only
meant that he was gathering breath for another
spurt, and they were spurts, and' no mistake.
Searle has pretty much the same trick.
* •
Matterson put Neilson through in the
rough water as he liked, but on smooth water the
Dane ought to beat him. It makes all the differ-
ence how a man is fitted up; if he goes out pre-
pared for smooth water and has his work low he
finds, himself perfectly helpless in very rough
water. Neilson was stopped dead at one time by
a wave striking bis scull ; he seemed to be fitted
up for smooth water, and this was perhaps the
reason of his defeat. The rowing-men, like the
race-horses, are now-a-days divided into different
“stables.” One “crowd” are Matterson and
Searle, with a public-house and a contingent of
sports at their cack—these train at Gladesville •
the Ryde “ talent ” are Beach, Peter Kemp, Tom
Kemp, and NeileoD, and they have their backer 3,
who make matches for them. Hanlan forms a
party of his own, consisting of Hanlan ; he Vows
from Mortlake. _ Stansbury, Libeati, and others
occasionally enliven the river with their presence.
The Searle-Matterson stable are the crowd that
scoops the pools just now, and the Ryde people
will hai e to put Reach into work again if they
want to rake in the coin as they did in the “ brave
days of old.”
• • *
A great deal of exaggeration is current
about the money won oVt r Sydney boatraces.
When it is one country against another then the
betting is pretty heavy, but when the local men
are racing one another it is absurd to talk about
fine backer winning ten thousand on it, and so
forth. The public bet little on these matches, as
u ey ji« to get odds whenever they invest, so that
the different rowing stables are practically always
going for one another’s money. We all know the
men who are behind these scUllers, and we know
that they are not millionaires, and ten thousand
mone y- When one hears of wagers
of thousands ” read hundreds, and for hundreds
read fiVers, and you will be about right.
* • *
An offer was made the other night to make
the stake 3 in the Kemp Searle match £oooo aside,
but this was pure bluff. They would have to take
up a subscription to get the money.
* * *
The four rounds between George Seale,
the champion amateur, and Jack Burke at
Ji oiey s last w celt proved a most scientific bit of
play. The amateur’s unusual style completely
non plussed Burk“, who seemed all abroad, the
amateur landing on head and body, almost with-
out a return. Burke showed excellent good
temper, and though his right came across once or
t wice with what would have been rather a vicious
blow had Seale been where Burke expected
him to lie, he smilingly took the light gruel so
liberally dealt out to him.
* * *
The decision disqualifying The Nun is a
just one, but ib is a pity that such a clinking good
mare should have been the ‘ example.”
* * «
The Melbourne Cricket Club now calls the
roll at -!J3O numbers, a total which the strength
ot all the Sydney metropolitan clubs combined
could not muster. The wonder ii that, consider-
ing the number of players Melbourne beasts of,
Sydney ever scored a win.
• • «
It Is cabled that the popular skipper of the
Australian Eleven has made his last appearance
as a cricketer.
* • *
According to all accounts, the last Aua-
tralian Eleven took the cake for bickering and
squabbling amongst themselves; and their prede-
cessors were no “mugs ” at the game.
* * *
Woolf Bendoff, the British bruiser (which
he is a Hebrew) wants to fight any Australian,
the raw uns " for preference. Our boxers will
make a mistake in quarrelling with the authorities
by going back to the old London prize-ring rules. ■
Ihe lover of a good set-to can see quite enough
tor his money under Queensberry rules, and any-
one who wants to see more punishment meted
put than Peter Jackson gave the darkie Godfrey
m the States must be a glutton indeed.
* * •
J. C. Williamson is, we are told, prime
promoter in the scheme to bring out the team of
American cricketers and baseballers.
* * *
The same old cry from all cricket clubs
re defaulters. However, those who did pay gob
poor value for their money.
•
Ironsides’ scheme for inaugurating repre-
sentative electoral matches is gaining considerably
m favour. Anything will be preferable to the
uninteresting club cricket Sydney has been treated
to for many past seasons.
* * *
Hon. James White means to give two colts
intended for England every chance. They have
been further nominated for the Two Thousand
Guineas and Newmarket Stakes of 18110.
• *
Slavin and Dooley are to meet again, this
time for ‘ £2OO a-side in private, ” which meanß a
fight in the country. Slavin has come back to us
a howling swell a la Jack Burke, stove-pipe hat,
lavender pants, overcoat trimmed with a few tons
of fur, and a gingham rolled up painfully close.
Burke still balks fight all round.
* • *
The cricketers, who will be back from
England almost at once, have done very well all
things considered. The team consisted of two
bowlers, one batsman (reliable), one batsman (un-
reliable), another batsman (first-class, if thoroughly
sober), another batsman (first class, if just com-
fortably drunk), and an awful bail. The two
bowlers worked like horses, but they could not be
expected to keep up to- form in so long a trip.
* * *
Hanlan offers to match Teemer to row the
winner of the forthcoming champion race, within
s!x months, for £5OO a-tide. He also says that he
and Teenier will row double-sculls any two
scullers for the double-scu'lers’ championship of
the world.
A veteran hairy Sir John—Old Jack
Robertson.
Sir Nordenfeld t Pai kes, G. C. M. G. —Grand
Commander of the Machine Gun.
In passing sentence on the guileless young
Timothy Breen, Judge Docker remarked that he
was ‘ glad to t now that the offence of bribery
was of a very rare nature in N.S.W., and he was
still more glad to know that the attempts made
had never been successful.” Another little joke !
A new phase of the Chinese question has
since the rumours of the intended war with Aus-
tralia, presents 1 itself. Those Chinamen living
in the colonies, in view of the coming struggle
have taken to fortifying their constitutions with
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine. This discovery seriously
complicates the outlook. y
Everybody who knows Mr. Dick Thatcht r
will be serry to learn that he has, through sick
ness and the misfortunes arising from sickness
faUen upon evil days He has had to face many
a tough battle and has managed to keep bis head
well above water hitherto, and it’s not a cheerful
sight to see so energetic a man beached bv hard
luck and failing health. We should be clad to
have a chance of forwarding to the proper quarter
any funds from friends- who are now willing to
come to the r sine. 6


OOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
The Popular Pleasure Resort.
Visited Daily by Large and Fashionable Audiences.
Saturday Next—Great Holiday Programme,
Including the Musical Marvel,
Who will introduce /fAff P T ! I New and Wonder-
ful Feats—extract- \iAW tf 1 i / ing MUSIC from
anything and everything !
[MONDAY—EIGHT HOURS’ DEMONSTRATION.
Monster Holiday Attraction
Amusements from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Great
Variety Entertainment on the Stage in
the main hall. A Full Band will
perform during the day.
Special provision made for Picnic parties. Trams will
run at short intervals.
Kemcinher S Positively no Extra Charge.
The magnificent Swimming Baths, which have
■lO wAWG I been greatly improved at considerable expense,
will be OPENED on SUNDAY NEXT. =S3I
Admission, Is,; Children, 6d. No Extra Charge.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.— “ The Tomboy ” p. 18.
Her Majesty’s.— “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin” ... „
Alhambra.— Minstrelsy »
Criterion. —“ A Touch of the Sun” ~
Royal Standard.— “ Master and Man”
“ Master and Man,” a drama with a riot
in it, is travelling under certain difficulties at
Sydney Royal Standard. The stage isn’t large
enough for the riot, and, consequently, that in-
surrectionary movement and outburst of popular
frenzy is necessarily kept down to rather small
proportions, and a drama which ought to contain
more tumult than it does has less commotion in it
than the public crave after. For our own part we
like to take our riot neat. We pine after wreckage,
and long to see the air filled with the flying ghosts
of unearthly smash, and our soul rises to poetic
fury as we watch a driving gale of bangs and
tatters tear across the staggered sky. When the
anguished atmosphere rains tigers and elephants
and mangled Christian remains we love to
lie and dream amid the ruins of the fall-
ing menagerie of the soft airs that breathe
through the strings of an /Kolian harp ; we
especially adore the Nubian lion as lie rides
on the chariot of the morning dew, and the balmy
zephyrs which steal across the waters in our
visions are laden with boa-constrictors and great
sea-serpents, which drive bears in front of them
while sharks and cat-fish bring up the rear of the
procession. We are bloodthirsty when roused, and
we hunger for broken windows and bricks and rush-
ing clods of earth, and we want the insurgents to
rave louder and cuss with greater fury and to heave
larger slabs of inhuman awfulness. And we also
complain of another thing. “ Master and Man ”
is understood to be suggested by Zola’s great
novel, “ ( terminal,” but Zola’s destructive Socialist
escapes with his life and is last seen walking over
the smiling earth on his way to some distant land
—he does his work of ber-lud and then he gradually
fades away and becomes a mere fragment of the
indefinite straddling into the unreachable; but the
dramatist has considered it necessary to make an
example of this burning agitator, and after he
has whooped in a coal-pit and delivered a fiery
oration to the blank, black walls he is run in at
the pit mouth and taken away to be scragged as a
sacrifice to respectability. This circumstance and
the want of sufficient riot are serious defects in
an otherwise good drama. Mr. Sidney does a lot
of powerful acting in the part of Etienne Lantier,
a mixed sort of hero who has yearnings after revo-
lution but is smothered a good deal by thoughts
of his mother, and if he could play the part with-
out any mother it would be pretty near to moder-
ate perfection. Mr. Frank Gerald isn’t hampered
by a mother, and his Socialist, a raging tornado
with blazes in his kindling eye and one stud in his
shirt-front, is an agreeable conspirator. Mr.
Harry Power fills the air with comedy, and
Mr. Walton, as a one-horse person in posses-
sion of capital, distinguishes himself chiefly
by ordering his daughter (Miss Ethel Grey) to go
to her room every time something is going to
happen. Speaking without prejudice, we object
to have one of the prettiest features in the drama
hustled off to bed whenever things get interesting,
and unless the one horse person lets up on this
fatal tendency, he will probably hear of something
to his disadvantage. Miss Alice Norton, how-
ever, as the principal girl of the drama, has a
quiet old parent who doesn’t send her to bed, and
so the audience are pretty well content. A gay
little comedietta finishes the proceedings, and, de-
spite the fact that the gas of insurrection might
be laid on with a more lavish hand, the show is a
good one, and deserves any prosperity that may
be lying about loose in the trodden-flat colony of
N S. Wales.
*# # #
Saturday night waß devoted to Nellie
Farren’s benefit at Sydney Royal, and the oc-
casion was celebrated with a hash of c imedy and
burlesque, in which “ Mont 9 Christo ” was mixed
up with “Nan, the Good-for-Nothing,” and
“Esmeralda” sat on top of the ruins. The
theatre was filled with an appalling. crush, in
which man, in his individual capacity, hadn’t
room to think, much less to breathe and contem-
plate, and the profits must have been heavier
than a ton of coals.
#* * *
“ A Touch of the Sun ” disappears from
Sydney Criterion this week, and on Saturday
Mr. Leitch will shine out afresh in “ Coming
Home,” otherwise known as “ Sithors to Grind,”
a drama filled with strange, weird pathos and
various other circumstances and emotions. Pro-
bably the old piece would have held out longer if
there had been a tank ia it, or even a dream of a
tank, but that adjunct was unfortunately wanting.
“ Coming Home ” is also devoid of a tank, but it
has earned golden opinions from bishops and
others in many lands, and if it can’t gee without
beiDg turned into an aquarium and filled, with
tittlebats, then it isn’t worth while being a
dramatist any more.
## # *
That unfading fiiwer of genius, Carrie
Swain, takes postession of Sydney Royal this
week with “ The Tomboy,” and will be duly con-
sidered in next issue.
** # #
Next Saturday Mr. George C. Miln, an
actor who has never yet appeared on the Aus-
tralian stage, will storm the heights of glory at
Her Majesty’s in the character of “ Hamlet.” As
neither “ Hamlet ” nor Mr. Miln have been
arranged or adapted or in any way tinkered
with by any of the local “ dramatic authors ”
the prospects are better than they might
lie if they were worse. On Friday afternoon
a matinee performance will be given at this
theatre on behalf of Signor Riccardi, who is
at present disabled through a severe accident,
when “ Uncle Tom ” will be whaled on the banks
of the suUen Red River in aid of a noble cause,
and the Criterion company will assist, and the
Orpheus Club and a number of other gentl. men
of musical tendencies will toot the melodious horn
and wail into the wild recesses of the sad bassoon.
Furthermore, the minstrels at Sydney .Opera
House will float away down the tide of existence
at the close of the present week, and the tree of
life—but it is altogether too hot for figures of
speech.
** * #
“ Hands Across the Sea ” —a strong-
flavoured drama of joy and sorrow, interspersed
with little bits of bumkum and a violent hoisting
of the British flag—made a promising start at
Melbourne Royal on Saturday night The story
is peculiarly reminiscent and sublimely absurd.
An English farm bailiff in a velveteen suit cuts
out his young master in the affections of a girl
whose father has been so long in N.S.W. that
when he returns “home” nobody recognises him
except the audience. This restored parent fools
around the farm, disguised in his own identity,
until the wicked young master makes an abortive
attempt to win the daughter’s love by twisting
her arm the wrong way, after which the old gentle-
man hands her over to the virtuous youth in vel-
veteen, and goes back to Australia by himself. The
rural couple get married and spend a honeymoon in
Paris, where their domestic circle is invaded by the
villain and a French count. The plot is also
thickened by a dissolute Madame and a degraded
male accomplice deep in crime. Between them
all, the confiding husband is sent to New Cale-
donia for a murder committed by the villain, but
he escapes in transmission, and floats about on the
briny waters until he is picked up by a vessel
which is taking everybody else to Sydney, and his
innocence is finally established on the quay over-
looking our beautiful harbour. This last act is
the quintessence of puerility, but it provides the
liberated hero with an irrelevant opportunity for
dropping into an inapropos rhyme—referred to
last week. Apart from its misleading title and
expensive setting up, “ Hands across the Sea ”
will attract by force of acting talent. An inci-
dental comic character is played to perfec-
tion by Mr. Elton, although several earnest
touches of nature appeared to be wasted upon
a Saturday night gallery. Mr. Charles Warner
pervades the trouble with a florid, full-blown
vigour adapted to melodrama, and Mr. H. H.
Vincent divides high honours in wickedness with
Herbert Flemming. Messrs. B. N. Jones, Cates,
and Co. fill minor billets in a trustworthy manner,
but any residue of eulogy for about 10 other men
they will oblige by accepting in one lump. The
dissolute Madame is lifted into prominence by
Miss Ada Ward, although her parb has little in-
terest of its own. Miss Isabel Morris puts the
heroine through her trials and tribulations with
the skill which comes of long practice in that line
of art, and Miss Emma Chambers is a plump sun-
beam afloat or ashore. “ Hands Across the Sea ”
may last over Melbourne Cup time.
## # *
Miss Adelaide Detchon, assisted by a
gentleman singer and another gentleman who
plays a piano and small organ, is giving “lyrical
and musical ” recitals at Melbourne Athenaeum.
The two gentlemen are but very subordinate
MR. GEORGE WALTON,
ARTIST, MELBOURNE.
features in a ceremony which, on Saturday, lasted
exactly 90 minutes, interval included. Miss
Detchon is the sort of talented young lady fre-
quently met with, only that she is rather more so
than usual. Her appearance is charming, her eye
is bright, her smile is winning, her hair is golden,
and tier cheek is very beautiful. She recites
prettily, and sings nicely, but it is unlikely that
Miss Detchon will ketchon to any Grge extent A
fashionable company attended the Athenaeum last
.*■ aturday, on the understanding that S r Henry
Loch would also bs present. But His Excellency
failed to arrive, and when the company dispersed
atanearly hour they looked as though they thought
things in general were too thin.
#* # *
Other Melbourne shows keep much about
the same. “On Change ” finishes at the Bijou on
Friday, when a little *' burletta ” (ye gods !) will
be thrown in by way of adding weight to Rojme s
benefit. And among other added attractions The
Bulletin’s own Phil May will give some light-
ning sketches on the immediate spot. There is
not a very fevered anxiety to behc Id ‘ 1 Romeo
and Juliet” at the Princess’s, although Plain
William has handed over the character of Romeo
to Mr. Robert Inman. Perhaps this circum-
stance is not sufficiently rumoured abroad.
## * #
The Spanish Students are kindly drying-
up at the Opera House to-night (Thursday). His-
cocks’ Minstrels have gone to Adelaide, and the
Alexandra re-opens on Saturday under the
management of Mr. Alfred Dampier, whose fine
voice has not been heard in Melbourne for years.
He starts the seaton with “ His Natural Life,
and we hope it may be a long and happy one.
There is more * * Skipped by the Light of the
Moon ” at St. George’s Hall, a farce which cer-
tainly contains more human interest than the
trousers-hunting entertainment which it sup-
planted on Saturday.
## # *
Messrs. Brough and Boucicault fix up a
very tonev show at the Bijou on October 6. "In
Honour Bound,” by Sydney Grundy, and ‘ln
Chancery,” by the great Pinero. For one o r
other of these comedies a large number of estab'
lished favourites will be slipped. On Monday and
Friday of next week Mr. Melton Prior delivers a
lecture entitled “Scenes in the Soudan ” at Mel-
bourne Town Hall. It is believed that he will
make special reference to the goat.
## # #
Bland Holt has just left Brisbane Opera
House and Brough and Boucicault’s ‘ ‘ Hans, the
Boatman ” Co. occupy the Gaiety. The Theatre
Royal is closed. Five weeks of sensational melo-
drama has about worn Brisbane play-goers out; a
long course of murders, shipwrecks, forgeries, and
illustrated and hand-painted villainy of every sort
being a very exhausting thing in a warm climate,
and a steady succession of intoxicated mothers and
bleary ruffians who club their victims in dense
woods after dusk palls upon the soul. “Hans,
the Boatman,” is a delightful change after the
aforesaid horrors. The house is crowded nightly,
and Hans, the dog, and the Baby Coquette are
subjects of public rejoicing.
** * *
The Adelaide Royal has been closed for a
week, a circumstance brought about by the public
dislike to anything more cheerful than repent-
ance. Geo. Darrel), however, makes a fresh start
shortly with “Mr. Barne3 of New York.” Amy
Sherwin Gorlitz, Ida Osborne and Co., have been
realising much consecrated coin at the Town Hall,
and the Nightingale is in a fair way to make up
some of the opera company losses. At Garner’s
Theatre, Professor Baldwin and his clever wife
have also struck a good thing, and in addition to
mystifying the prayerful brethren they have
found the money good and plentiful. There is an
aspect of subdued prophecy attaching to this
show which keeps it afloat when other ventures
sink and are forgotten.
## # #
The Queensland journalist was born to be
taken in, and a pitiable example of this failing
appears in a column of gush in a recent exchange.
It purports to be a report by a listener on a
balcony of a conversation between a well-known
actor and his manager, but as the manager’s own
initials are attached at the foot it appears that he
was standing on the balcony and listening to him-
self down below. In his capacity on the balcony
he describes himself as a man of brilliant mind and
great ability, both in poetry and prose, and then
looking over the rail he saw himself down below,
and was struck by his own aspect of acuteness com-
bined with benevolence, which he details at length.
The conversation which he heard himself and his
friend utter, while thus carefully concealed from
himself so ttiat he might not see himself and thus
scare himself away, consists largely of extracts
from The Bulletin, which seems to come in
handy as a means of supplying dialogue for men
who are divided into two parts, and who keep one
half of themselves on the balcony and the other
half in the street. The preceding remarks, it
may be mentioned, are directed entirely at the
half of him that was on the balcony, and if the
other half wishes to offer any objections to these
comments we will positively refuse to recognise
it in the matter.
** # *
The latest London sensation is Professor
Baldwin, who drops from the clouds twice a week.
Professor B. goes up in a balloon by himself and
when he is 1000 feet, or more, from the ground
he cuts a hole in the balloon, and jumps from the
car, holding a closed parachute above his head.
He drops like a stone until the air catches his
umbrella, after which the intrepid idiot descends
gracefully and touches terra firma about the same
time as the mutilated balloon. One day the
Professor will drop head foremost, or his gamp
will blow inside out. Then the Bulletin will
dash off his little epitaph.
** # *
At latest, Henry Bracey had taken a lease
of the Avenue Theatre, London.
A stirring local sensation by a Sydney
author is to be produced in about a fortnight at
Sydney Royal Standard under the management
of Messrs. Gerald and Duff.
Fishing-Nets, all sorts and sizes, at the Fishing
Depot, Eastway’s, 411 George street, Sydney.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ Single Tax ” : You yourself admit that there
is a vast difference between the Freetrade of Henry
George and the Freetrade of the Parkes crowd. That is
all we oontend for, but we maintain that scientific Protec-
tion would necessitate a single tax for revenue and facili
tate the advent of Land Nationalisation.Gympie ” :
For consideration.... “ James Powers” (Melbourne): We
know of no connection between Constantinople and
Heidelberg, but nobody looks for coherence in Aruus leaders
..." W.L.” (Tumut) : Tub Bulletin was not established for
the purpose of “ saying complimentary things about
people.” There are quite enough papers already to say
complimentary things about people—at so much an inch.
....“Id Achates” (Q.) : We published something very
like your story long ago “ K.N.W.” (Corowa) :
Have not received the “ oopy ” alluded to “ ster.
lin ” : The pity is that more “ pictures ” were
not rejected....“ Fruit-grower ”: We are not good
at conundrums, and oheeifully give it up......
“Lento R'su” (Bathurst): Much too long “J. T.
Holden” (Giisfoid): Thanks “R.W.” (Lismore): Re-
ceived; see future issue “Fair-play”: Your wai\
shall be framed and sent to the Centennial Exhibition
“F. Crennan” (Waterloo): We have washed several
dishes of your epic, but it doesn’t pan out we’l at all.
Listen to this
“ Farewell, thin, to thee,
Daniel Denithe-e-e-e-e.”
This is good poetry of its sort—good bog poetry, but we
prefer the common or garden variety “Anti-China-
man ” (South Brisbane): We’re very much afraid that
under existing lasvß scalping Chinamen and flaying them
alive would not “bs winked at” by the authorities....
“An Intimate Friend”: W.P.8....“ W.E.” : Mr. R. A.
Proctor was originally a Roman Catholic, but renounced
dogma for agnosticism —“E.J.S.”: We don’t believe
Parkes meant to shoot anyone when he sent the artillery
to Newcastle ; his action was mere bluster and was on a
par with the course taken by the Yiotorian police
authorities in training siege-guns to Glenrowan to smash
the Kellys. [Many communications held over.]
A glowing cablegram which went round
the Australian Press last week informed the
listening world how the two daughters of the
Prince of Wales were nearly run over by a train
at Gmunden, in Austria, and a good deal of ex-
citement ensued. At first it was understood that
the Princess of Wales had also stood on the burn-
ing deck, cr rushed into the jaws of death, or
something, but as her name was afterwards
dropped out of the story, it may be presumed that
she wasn’t there. The plain, unvarnished tale
which remained after she was deducted set forth
that the Princesses had been walking across the
railway-line, or else riding across it, or driving in
a buggy or a carriage or a phaeton or a dray or a
truck or other implement, drawn by a horse or mule
or ass or dog or other animal or animals, more or
less, jointly, severally, individually, or collec-
tively, or all together, now and for ever more, and
that while they and the animal, beast, or brute,
or other locomotive structure set forth above, were
still on the rails a train approached at a rate vary-
ing from 10 to 600 miles an hour and threatened
them with destruction. How far the train
was away remains a matter of conjec-
ture, the distance ranging from several yards
to a considerable number of miles, hut
at all events its approach is understood to
have scared the princesses, as well as the chaplain,
footman, butler, equerry, groom, dustman, or
flunkey, or other vegetable, animal, or mineral
production by which they were accompanied.
Why they didn’t get off the rails like ordinary
people who aren’t telegraphed about every time
they cross a railway-line, or why, if the horse
wouldn’t get off, they didn’t get off themselves
and leave the horse on, or why they were there at
all, or whether they were ever there, or whether
there was any railway, or train, or horse, or any
princesses, or any accident, or any scare, or
whether there was anything at all, ar e subjects
that become misty and uncertain through the con-
flicting nature of subsequent cablegrams, but at
all events it is understood that the ladies have
since been confined to bed. It is also understood
that they haven’t been in bed at all, and a good
deal of uncertainty prevails as to the place they
have been in bed or out of bed at. The report on
which this item is based says the disaster took
place at Gmunden, but the Evening News (which
only the day previously had solemnly lectured a
daily contemporary on the grossness of the ignor-
ance displayed by it in transcribing its cablegrams)
asserts that there wasn’t any disaster, and that
the name of the flunkey was “Mr. J. Munden,”
and omits altogether to mention where the
castastrophe didn’t happen. Further research
will probably prove that Gmunden was only
misprint for MundeD, and that Austria was horse
spelt wrong, and that the whole story has some-
thing to do with the Irish Question, or if it doesn't
it won’t matter much. It is a question, in fact,
whether anything does matter much, or whether
it matters at all, or even supposing that it does
matter whether anybody need worry about it.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW TAB
MO2J forms ips
IN THB
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES,
When next you bake try Pemell's Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Study yonr own Interest by using PemelPs Snow-whiti
Patbnt RoiiLBB Flour. It Is made In the oolony from the
best oolonial wheat by the newest patented maohinery
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low
11l
111
111
WARNERS SAFE CURE!
has been before the public now several
years, and in that time has proved itself
TO BE ALL THAT IT HAS BEEN REPBESENTED
222
222
222
It is purely vegetable, contains nothing
harmful, and DOES purify the blood
and CURE disease, as it puts the kid-
neys, THE ONLY BLOOD-PURIFYING ORGANS,
in complete health.
333
333
333
It Cures Permanently. We have tens of
thousands of testimonials to this effect from
people who were cured years ago and who
are well to-day.
It is a Scientific Specific, was not
put upon the market until thoroughly
tested, and has the endorsement of Prof.
S A. Lattimore, M.A. Ph., LL.D., Official
Analyst of foods and medicines, and scores
of eminent chemists, physicians and pro-
fessional experts.
4 4 4
4 4 4
4 4 4
4 4 4
H. H. Warner & Co., j>onot core every-
thing from ONE BOTTLE, they b aving a specific
for each important disease. Fight shy of
any preparation which claims infallibility.
t) o o
555
555
555
Thetestimonialsprintedby H. H. Warner
& Co., are, so far as they know, positively
'tENUINE. For the past five years they have
had a standing offer of £l,OOO for proof to
the contrary. If you are sick and want to
999
99 9
9 9 9
9 9 9
GET WELL, USe
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
PEPPER
Salt
The Presbyterian Assembly of Victoria
included this important subject in their Prayer
Table for September and October :
The efforts of a few leading men among the natives of
Australia to foment discontent with the present connec-
tion of our colonies with Great Britain, is to be deplored.
And we should pray that the natives may continue to be,
so far as for the most part they now are, loyal to existing
relations, and that they may become more and more
patriotic, enterprising, and industrious, and that they
may fear God, and honour parents, and other lawful
authorities.
Let us all pray under the Table :
“ Mr. Lees, in opening his address,
pointed out that this was the first time that a
member of Parliament had addressed .his consti-
tuents at Wentworth Falls, and expressed himself
in happy terms of the pleasure he derived from
being the opener of the political history (as it
were) of this part of the mountains.” —Daily
Paper.
“The Princess of Wales and her daughters
had a very narrow escape from death a few days
ago. Their Royal Highnesses were out for a
drive, and just as the carriage was about to cross
a level crossing an express train came round a
curve in the vicinity. Colonel Clark, who was in
attendance, immediately alighted, and he was able
to back the horses sufficiently far to enable the
train to pass without injury to the Royal party.”
Another cable account says that the gallant
Colonel (who evidently telegraphed this narrow
escape to London) “just succeeded in dragging
the carriage on one side,” It is too thin. The
coachman didn’t drive on to the railway-line and
then stop. What did the footman do at this
awful moment ? While the Colonel was alighting
and fooling about with the horses, couldn’t the
ladies jump out ?
To the ordinary star-gazer the Southern
Cross consists of a very badly formed cross of four
stars with a fifth star thrown in as if to mar
what little of uniformity there is in this very dis-
appointing constellation ; but, like the toad’s
head, it contains a jewel among jewels when ob-
served through a sufficiently powerful telescope.
Cappa Crucis, a star of apparently the smallest
magnitude, is in reality “ a cluster of stars” —a
very shower of jewels of every color—described
by Sir William Herschel as “the most beautiful ob-
ject in the heavens.” At the present time two of
the reddest stars in the firmament, the planet
Mars and the fixed star Anteres (Alpha Scorpii)
are in very close proximity to one another ; and
the planet Venus (the most brilliant object in the
heavens next to the sun itself) shines forth in all
her glory on the Western horizon for an hour or
so atter sunset. —Notes within and without the
Sydney Observatory.
For those leading men we’re pleading,
We are pleading with the Lord —
New ideas their words are breeding,
And it’s much to be deplored ;
We know that men are sinning
When with things they disagree
Which were in the beginning,
And for evermore shall be.
We pray that Mister Purves
And Judge Williams may support
All that’s said by Jimmy Service
When he ‘‘bonnets” for the Court,
For the very bone and sinew
Of a hoty life consist
In the seeking to continue
Those relations that exist.
But if wisdom is fomented
By the speeches of a few,
Then the mob grows discontented
And Her Majesty looks blue :
Men forget their proper stations
And, unless their thoughts are curbed,
Want to bust up those relations
Which must never be disturbed.
May those leaders, who have striven
To improve on teachings old,
Soon repent and be forgiven,
And be gathered to the fold
In the Lord’s appointed season;
May they never dare to search
For truths that smack of “treason ”
And are scouted by the Church.
May the young Australian Native
Yet more patriotic grow,
May his mind be non-combative,
May he never want to know
May he always dote on Britain,
’Tis a land he hasn’t seen;
May he never read what's written
In the naughty Bullyteen.
Unnumbered years white waters fell
From crag to fern, from rock to dell;
Unnumbered years the kangaroo
Held wassail where the flax-grass grew ;
Unnumbered years the flying fox
Made home among the tow’ring box ;
Unnumbered years the humming-bee
Hummed life away in blossom-tree—
But these no more than paved the way
For that which glorifies to-day !
The wombat leaps with ease and grace,
The ’possum shows a pleasing face,
The parrot calls in dulcet tone,
The dingo races round alone,
The water falls a thousand feat,
And fills the air with shining sleet—
But water bright is only rain,
And birds on wing and bough are vain,
And beasts but brutes, and trees but sticks
Beside Lees spouting politics !
THAT NARROW ESCAPE.
A little song of Wales's wife
(Our future Queen by marriage),
Of how she nearly lost her life
While sitting in a carriage.
We’ll put the case in such a shape
’Twill freeze the reader’s marrow ;
Though luckily she did escape,
The squeak was awful narrow.
The sun it did in glory shine,
The busy bees were humming,
That carriage wasn't on the line
Just as a train was coming.
The train came tearing down the track,
Brave Colonel Clark espied it,
And, therefore, kept that carriage back
Lest trouble might betide it.
If he had pulled it in the way,
Instead of out , we’re thinking
That probably the world, would say
The Colonel had been drinking.
The coachman, like a Briton true,
Chose wisely ’twixt two courses—
To let himself be cut in two,
Or else to back the horses.
Thus all concerned (so Heaven willed)
The voice of reason heeded ;
Had they but striven to get killed,
Mayhap they had succeeded.
Here ends the song of Wales’s wife,
We guess your marrow’s frozen ;
Perhaps she might have lost her life,
Provided she had chosen.
* . »
NIGGERS AND COLLIERS.
While sun was shining on land and sea
A smoke of battle made thick the air ;
Parkes sniffed the smoke in the wind, and he
Laid hold of his boots, sat back in his chair,
And pulled them on, and arose, and yelled
Once, twice, three times ; and striding forth
He madly bellowed as he beheld,
Spreading away to south and north,
A great dense clan,
In blue and grey,
Sent out to slay,
With guns and swords,
The black-faced hordes
Of the Soudan !
Grim sight,
Sad plight !
“Hi say,” yelled Parkes, and his hair stood
high
And stiff as clothes props, “ Hi say, go back !
Your guns and two-edged swords put by,
For men are men, though skins be black ;
And Nature’s Law and God and Hi,
The three of us, say ‘ Spill no blood !’
For niggers’ blood will reach the sky
In hues that witness brotherhood !
Ye blind, duped clan,
In blue and grey,
Decline to slay,
With guns and swords,
The blackfaced hordes
Of the Soudan!
I’m Parkes!
No larks!”
A VERY SERIOUS CHARGE
MAGISTRATE: “WELL, CONSTABLE, WHAT IS THIS PRISONER CHARGED
WITH?”
CONSTABLE: “CHARGED WITH COLONIAL BEER, YOUR WASHUP-CHARGED
RIGHT UP TO THE BLESSED NECK WITH IT!”
While sun was shining on sea and land
A whisper came that a crowd of men
Whom toil had blackened in face and hand
Demanded better reward ; and when
They stood around to make clear their cause,
The masters hastened to Parkes’ side,
And, holding sheaves of employers’ laws
Beneath his nose, they imploring, cried :
“ O Parkes, our own !
Put forth thy word
For gun and sword,
And if a threat
They breathe, then let
Their blood atone!”
Sad plight!
Grim sight !
“ Hi say,” yelled Parkes, and his hair stood
high
And stiff as clothes-props ; “Hi say, 0 ye !
Seize guns and swords, and let them die
Who break these rules which here ye see !
For Nature’s Law and God and Hi,
The three of us say : ‘ Shoot and hack
Those knaves who’d make society
Bow down before their fac 3s black !
With sword and gun
Go therefore forth
Unto the north,
And if a threat
They breathe, then let
Their life-blood run!
No larks !
I’m Parkes !”
The Brickbat.
(Slung by Titus Salt.)
The Lismore Chronicle, with the un-
conscious humour which marks the testifying
alleged Christian wherever he hangs out, offers
the following statement: —
‘ ‘ There not being six persons present, the contem-
plated prayera for rain at the English CJhuroh on Friday
last were not held.”
It follows from this that six persons can’t muster
among them a sufficient horse power of devotion
to produce any effect, and, consequently, the
prayers of one individual for himself can’t be of
any account at all. And if the prayers of one in-
dividual can't bring down anything, it is hopeless
to suppose that the action of the same solitary
Christian in dropping half-a-crown in the plate
is calculated to do him any good, and he may as
well ease up on that act of lavishness and keep the
coin. Furthermore, if the prayer of one or of six
worshippers amounts to nothing in. particular,
then the loud devotion of 6,000,000 worshippers
comes exactly to the same thing. A million times
nothing is only nothing after all. Or if it is only
a question of degree, and the prayers of the six
worshippers are in some measure effective but not
effective enough, we presume it follows that prayer
is akin to carrying wood, and that six men aren’t
enough to hoist the log of devotion. If so, how
many are enough ? The Scripture says, “ Where
two or three are assembled,” &c., but either the
Lismore clergy have forgotten this or else
their flocks have not got the hang of the thing
as they had in Palestine in the days of long
ago and don’t lift together with the mighty rim
of their fathers. The Lord still loveth the
cheerful giver, but though one man can plank
down the dust single-handed just the same as the
old patriarchs did, he must get six fellows to help
him and the whole seven must heave together
with a will if he wants anything* in return. And
as there are only six men in Lismore who want
rain, against some 600 who want to pray for
broken noses when an Escaped Nun or an eloped
monk comes round and screams, and to ask that
the Pope may be dashed through all eternity, it
follows that there is a much better show of the
Pope being eternally dashed than of Lismore
getting rain. The chances are, roughly speaking,
100 to 1 against the grateful fluid, and if it takes,
say, two years—one year being gone already— to
haul the Pope down into outer darkness by prayer,
it naturally follows that the prayer for rain, being
only supported with one-hundredth part of the
vigour with which the other supplication was
hoisted, will take 200 years to do any good. There
isn’t going to be any rain in Lis more till 2088 and
the Pope will be dashed if there is any even then.
These calculations cast a lurid light on the efficacy
of prayer. Adam and Eve never prayed, for they
hadn’t six parsons, unless they started when five
of the children had reached the praying age so as
to make seven in all, a fact which accounted for the
deluge and made Noah supplicate for fine weather.
Noah, it may be noted, was eight strong in the
ark, else he might have been there yet. It is
stated on good authority that if the earth were
flattened out there would be two miles of water
over every part of it, but we don’t see how
Noah could have helped this except by prayer.
Something might have been done, of course,
ifthe earth could have been stopped revolv-
ing on its axis, as the sudden shock would
probably have brought something up from the
bottom for Noah to stand upon to get his
second wind, but unless a large handle could have
been fixed to the earth and the whole human race
could have hung on to it and braced their feet
against something to keep the globe from going
round it isn’t probable that any good would have
been accomplished in this direction. Steam-power
was unknown in those days and its place was
mainly filled by asses. Of these useful animals
there are now some 4,000,000 in Europe alone, but
even supposing all these had been assembled it is
difficult to see how they could have obtained a
footing upon the ark, and at the best of times the
initial velocity of an ass is extremely uncertain
and much inferior to that of a cannon-ball. A
great deal also depends on the chest-measurement
of the animal, which is likewise a variable and
transitory quantity. That of the British army
maintains a steady average of about 38 inches, but
it might possibly be increased by prayer if pro-
perly applied. Prayer is of various descriptions;
the kind which will remove mountains isn’t
generally used, but as a machine can be made
which will lift 700 tons of clay per hour this want
is not so much felt as might be supposed. Most
of the things that used to be done by prayer are
now effected by steam, and when sermons are alsc
preached by steam from a text selected by
hydraulic pressure it is anticipated that the result
will surpass all previous expectations. Preaching
by hand is a slow and laborious process, and while
producing no positive results it involves the ex-
penditure of an amount of physical force which
would be sufficient to wheel an Irishman in a bar-
row a distance of three miles. Further it may be
pointed out that the application of the cable-tram
principle to public worship—but these reflections
have already led us too far from the original sub-
ject and we will close in haste.
* * *
Another example of the lopsided folly of
Australian law has just come to light. At Sydney
Water Police Court, the other day, Andrew
Strachan was convicted of having on his premises
“a dead horse unfit for human consumption,” and
was fined £(> and costs. And yet, all over the
eame city, live horses, which are obviously unfit
for human consumption because they aren’t dead,
are trotting along contentedly in front of omni-
buses and carriages, and nobody has anything to
say about them. If Andrew Strachan had kept
on his premises a live horse for human consump-
tion he would very properly have been fined as
heavily as the law would allow, for the man who
would consume a horEe before it is dead is unfit to
mingle in human society, and should be dragged
asunder and buried in an ash-heap; but a dead
horse is exactly the kind of horse that is wanted
for consumption—if the public are in the horse-
consuming line at all—and if the animal iR a little
too dead, that merely shows that Andrew had
made a noble effort to have it dead enough and
had slightly overshot the mark. The prosecution
of Andrew Strachan opens up a new vista of
possible iniquity, and shows how the law, which
has always been a deranged and unreliable
quantity, is growing daily still more deranged and
more unreliable. The policeman who informed
on Strachan was himself practically in the same
position as the meat, though possibly from a
different cause, yet nobody fined him for being
unfit for human consumption in a public place;
the magistrate wasn’t in good condition for
human food being too tough and too hot,
and so, according to his own precedent, his
family ought to have been fined for having him in
the house; and there was no evidence to show that
Andrew Btrachan himself was suitable refresh-
ment for a small party at a cold-meat tea. Yet,
while he was fined for being in the same house
with a horse, unfit for human nourishment, no at-
tempt was made to fine the horse for being
there along with him, and consequently
it appears that there is one law for a
horse and another for a butcher —a further
instance of the degrading and undermining in-
fluence which Capital exercises upon the human
intellect. But, after all, it is an open question
whether anyone wants a horse to be fit for human
consumption, and this point was utterly ignored
in the evidence. If, however, anyone is filled
with such an unhealthy desire for animal sus-
tenance it is his clear duty to eat the horse before
it goes bad, and he ought either to be fined for
not eating it in time or else he should abjure the
animal altogether and let it be buried in a
dreary spot on top of a tall cliff on the edge
of the retching deep. To put Mr.
Strachan’s case on a proper basis the man
who wanted to eat the horse should have
been produced, and then if he was found
to be physically capable of devouring the
animal he should have been heavily fined for
leaving his food lying about till it got bad. As
the matter stood, however, the defendant re-
pudiated all desire to swallow any horse, and as
the subject of discussion was several times larger
than himself there was every reason to credit his
assertion. And in the absence of any proof that
anybody at all had the faintest idea of feeding
upon the deceased quadruped, it would have been
equally reasonable to convict the owner because
the pavement in front of his premises was unfit
for purposes of ordinary sustenance. Australian
law, however, is incapable of appreciating the
finer shades of logic, and Andrew Btrachan is only
one more victim to a code which is founded on an
ass.
When Lord Carington goes “ home ” he
will be quite a colonial Robert.
The last Salvation Army song is “ Make
more noise ! ” More noise !
Said Winwood Reade : —“ The sexes may
be placed on an equal footing, not by granting to
women the dangerous liberty of men, but hy sub-
jecting men to the severe, but salutary moral dis-
cipline enforced on women.”
It has been pointed out from time to time
that quite 80 per cent, of the opossums killed have
young in their pouches. As the skin of the
opossum is one of the best that Australia can
boast of, protective action by the State is
necessary.
Dear Bulletin, —The Chinese must go.
They are becoming unbearable. To-day was bit-
terly cold. When the itinerant vegetable-vendor
came round with the “ gleen plea ” I observed in
my urbane way : “ It’s too cold, Ah Tomki.”
Johnny Ah Tomki chattered and made reply :
“ It allee same, tlee (three) cold.”—Yours, Oyster
Johnnie.
Victoria’s proud capital has lately gathered
her beauty and her chivalry at the St. James’s
Park Skating Rink, to behold one among many
Champion Lady Skaters of the Universe exhibit
her charming feet on wheels. This is the toney
establishment where “manners” are de rigueur,
and inferior-dressed creatures have their nasty
money returned at the doors.


Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
given for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
Dress Suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell-street, MELBOURNE.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’e Snow-whit* Patbnt Roolbb Fhotjb 1b tbe
best In the market.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Thady O’Kane rises in Sheol-like Charters
Towers to plump against the Newcastle miners.
Chamberlain says that Gladstone in advo-
cating Irish Home Rule is preaching pure anarchy.
Why do the Natives eo furiously butter
one another, and why do the papers encourage
this vain thing ?
England now actually grows less corn to
feed 35,000,000 people than she did 40 years ago
to feed 17,000,000.
Mr. W. F. Schey, M P., says he came to
Australia as second mats of a sailing ship. That’s
how he learned to trim his sails.
Premier Parkes says his ambition is to die
a member of the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly,
as he is too young for the Upper House.
Some N.Q. Separationists demand a Par-
liament of their own for the sake of the fun they
could have in the strangers’ gallery in the long
winter nights.
Among the witnesses summoned by the
N.S.W. police to give evidence in regard to the
alleged Newcastle riot are certain reporters of the
capitalistic press.
There are rumours of strained political
relations between Dan. O’Connor and Parkes.
However, the N.S.W. Protectionists don’t want
Dan. at any price.
In the present year of our Lord one person
out of every thirby in the United Kingdom is a
pauper, subsisting either on outdoor relief or
residing in the workhouse.
One Irishman out of 22, one Scotchman
out of 11, and one Englishman out of 9 enjoy the
franchise. And yet ‘' Great Britain ” is the
country they want us to federate with !
A thousand Mexicans have invaded the
United States and occupied the frontier city of
Rio Grande. The trouble arises out of the non-
surrender of a Mexican criminal by the States.
Moat of the Queensland coalmines are
giving the men 10 per cent, bonus on their work.
The indusbry is developing extraordinarily, and
the Newcastle monopoly is looked upon as lost for
ever.
There are 3046 languages spoken in the
world, and it is possible in N.S. Wales to become
a Minister of the Crown, or even Premier, without
knowing how to speak intelligibly in any one of
them.
The National Party in Queensland is now
organised as a caucus and offers £3OO a year for a
secretary. The ballot of the members for Presi-
dent produced only one nomination —M’llwraith,
of course.
N.S.W. employs nearly 1300 persons on
her telegraphs and 3000 in her post-offices, and
they are the worst managed in the world—the
persons and the telegraphs and the post-offices
and all, that is.
On the occasion of Governor Loch opening
the “ Queen’s Hall ” in the Victorian Parliament
buildings £127 worth of light refreshments were
consumed by the loyal senators. Their bleeding
country has just settled the account.
The Age has actually admitted that David
Gaunson made the best speech on the recent no-
confidence debate in the Victorian Assembly. The
Age has for years been trying to hound Mr.
Gaunson out of public life and with all its power
has failed.
Dukes, marquises, earls, viscounts, and
barons, with those who hang from them, have, in
the last 30 years, drawn from the British taxpayer
£108,614,232. Among barons, Lord Carington
has the greatest nutnUer of relatives quartered
on the State.
Rear-Admiral Tryon “ deprecates any
formal Federation between Great Britain and her
colonies, and says that practical Federation has
already been achieved.” That’s so. They are
turning the machine-gun 3 on the miners and each
imported Governor costs his colony £lo,ooo or
£20,000 a year.
N.S.W. is in the van of progress. Sir
Nordenfeldt Parkes i 3 just now extensively “ on
the job ” and pushing material advancement to its
furthest limits. Only a week or .so ago Robert
Hewarb was executed by electricity, and now
hand-labour (i.e., the miner) is being supplanted
by the machine-gun.
So completely is the tariff question in the
States recognised as being a mere reform of the
abuses of Protection, and in no wise an attack on
Protection as a system, that the late conference of
Republican senators (of whom Blaine, the Protec-
tionist irreconcilable, was one) proposed reducing
the sugar duty by a half.
In August, 1888, there were killed in
N.S.W. the following “noxious animals : ” 59,566
kangaroos, 52,346 wallabies, 1014 hawks, 61. emus,
333 native dogs—and not one religious capitalist,
who having sneaked into Parliament through the
aid of the secret societies, helps to lend money to
workmen on their bools of trade at 130 per cent,
interesht. . .
The S.A. Premier has raised Cain in the
political world by declaring that “ Members of
Parliament should pay their debts.” This is a
crushing blow dealt at one of the most sacred
privileges of the Legislature, and if not success-
fully resisted, the time will come when hon.
members may be expected to lead honest, virtuous
lives all round and even keep sober.
The publisher of the Diary of the late
German Emperor is to be prosecuted for revealing
state secrets. Bismarck says that the diary gives
a distorted view of the State policy in the past
and also of the intentions and utterances of
monarchs and statesmen. In many parts also, he
says, the diary is incorrect, because Frederick 111.
was often not informed of the policy of the Ger-
mai Empire for fear it would be disclosed to
E ngland.
According to a newspaper-report, a Broken
Hill attorney said at a public meeting the other
day that “ he was determined not to stand by and
see the people perish for water while water was to
be had. (Loud cheers ) He did not want to urge
insurrection. They acknowledged the Queen and
God, but would assert their rights.” It is very
kind of the attorney to acknowledge God. We
notice, however, that he is represented as giving
the Queen precedence.
Toe Australasian Insurance and Bank-
ing Record says that the assets of the 27 Austra-
lasian banks of issue am iunt to £145,097,614, and
their liabilities to £105,409,863, the who'e volume
including circulation, deposits, coin and bullion,
landed property, buildings, Government securities
aad advances, in the Australasian colonies being
£250,507,477. As at the corresponding date ia
1884 the amount was £201,667,901, it follows that
the increase during the last four years has fallen
little short of £50,000,000 sterling.
In the Washington White House a Cleveland bird
sat,
Singing “ Tariff? low Tariff ! no Tariff ! ”
And I said to him, “ Cleveland bird, what are
you at
Singing ‘ Tariff ? low Tariff ! no Tariff! ’
Don’t America want an incentive to grow ?
Don’t Americans need any favour and show ? ”
But he only replied, “ It is English, you know,
Singing ‘ Tariff ? low Tariff ! no Tariff ! ’ ”
—Wasp.
The new German ELamburg-to-Sydney
transit company is having six magnificent steamers
built for the trade. Very shortly one will be able
to go to Hamburg by steamer for £5, and English
wares will be crowded out of the Australian
markets by German goods imported in steamers
running under a Bismarckian State subvention
and hiring seamen at £1 a month. Smith will
disappear and give place to Schmidt, John China-
man will make way for Hans Schwartz, and John
Bull will leave the front row and take a back seat
in favour of our Teutonic brother Von Schwillen-
saufengermansausageschwedischturnipstein. It
will come, just as surely as that the sun will rise
to-morrow.
When the casj of tha so-called Adamstown
“ rioters ” wa3 under consideration the other day
Inspector Brennan urged that bail should be re-
fused owing to “the fact that a large body of
police and military” was in the district.. This
seems rather rough on the police and military,
especially as there were only three prisoners be-
fore the court, and it can only be assumed that
the armed host of the Government were.afraid
that the trio, if they got loose, might tear them
asunder, or else they were suppressing with diffi-
culty their longin? to slay somebody in cold blood
and felt that if three unarmed men came into
their presence they would be no longer able to
hold themselves back.
A peer in the West of England has shut
up his town house because his tenants have not
voluntarily paid their rents, and he has declined to
press them. Where is the landlord of Sydney or
Melbourne hovels who would endure one dinner the
less in the year on similar grounds ? While
modern thought stones the partridge-breeder of a
thousand years it should not forget the ex-
publican of half-a-ceniury. Both are in the one
boat, and it often happens that the king of the
slums and back-lanes screws and grinds his rerfs
with more relentless barbarity than does the
wearer of the coronet. The one heap! up the
plunder for a fea-t for princes, the other heaps it
up for a feed for swollen pawnbrokers and certifi-
cated and uncertificated insolvents. If there be
stoning at all, it should be stone and stone about.
“Why does England rejoice ovecthe pro-
spect of American Freetrade ? And why should it
be such an important matter to England that one
of the two great political parties in America
rather favours Freetrade ? ’ These are two prize
conundrums put forward by an American paper
just to hand, and the correct answer to them is
“Because Eagland kno<vs she will be the beneficiary.
If England, then, benefits by Freetrade, will not the
United States in a corresponding ratio be the loser'.' Is
not this logic? Are we well off at present —better off than
England? Who is it wants a change and wants it badly from
Protection to Freetrade ? Who rejoices most at the pro-
spect of securing Freetrade? Is it not England ! And
why should England rejoice ? again we ask the damphool
American Freetrader.
This language is “familiar and free” but it strikes
down to the bedrock of solid truth.
The Argus publishes a ridiculous cable-
gram from its own special fossil to the effect that
Joe Chamberlain is to be peeraged under the
style of Lord Highbury. This piece of intelli-
gence must have been inspired by a Radical jest
which the Argus man read in dull seriousness.
Highbury is the least populated among a multi-
tude of suburban districts forming the Nor.h of
London. During ths Parliament seasoi Cham-
berlain occupied a niceish house in Highbury
Place, and he owns perhaps half-affiozen other
plain family residences in the dull vicinity. If he
were to shift his quarters to Peckham the cruel
Radical press would give Renegade Joe the title
of Lord Peckham Rye. It is ju3t a little joke,
and the Argus has never seen a joke in the whole
course of its ponderous career.
Mr. Abigail (of the Australian Banking
Company, by the way), who is Minister of
Mines in N.S.W., is announced .as visiting Junes
to witness the final experiments in connection with
Pasteur’s remedy in connection with anthrax.
When and where is this farce to end ? It might
be perfectly reasonable for the N.S. W. Govern-
ment to send this cultivated bootmaker round
the gaols of the colony to see whether the pri-
soners’ boots wanted soleing. and heeling, but bo
set him up not only as a mining expert, but as a
critic of the pupils of one of the greatest phy-
siologists of any age, is well, in the name of
thunder what is it ? Is there any adjective big
or savage enough to prefix to the noun, if there
is any noun, which would describe the idiocy
of such proceedings ? Let the shoemaker stick to
his last.
The first bill providing for the taking of a
census in England was introduced in 1753, and
the starched old Tories of the day ro3e as one
unanimous fossil to oppose it. One noble soul de-
clared, in a limitless burst of wrath, that he did
not believe there was any set of men or, indeed,
any individual of the human species, so presump-
tuous and so abandoned as to make the proposal he
had just heard,” and another “ regarded the pro-
position as ominous, and feared lest some public
misfortune or epidemic should follow the number-
ing.” Yet even these louts of last century were
less ignorant and less stupid than the louts who
went before them, and it was by the previous
animals that the British Constitution, which is
still held up as a model of sacred perfection by
the Tories of the day, was mostly built.
Personal Items.
Australia’s “ hanging judge ” wears violets
—not rosemary—in his button-hole.
There is in Sydney an ancient spinster of
105. She has chewed tobacco for 50 years.
The members of th 9 recent Pan-Anglican
Conference were shocked at three colonial bishops
who are inveterate smokers.
As a matter of fact, Cardinal Moran him-
self gave leave for the R.C. burial service to be
performed over the remains of D. H. Deniehy.
A Vienna man has died, and made the
devil his sole le r ate« Apropos, after all Mr.
Fiood didn’a leave Sir Nordenfeldt Parke 3 any
money.
Truth says that Lord Carington is “ sick
and tired of N S.W.” Lord Carington, on the
other hand, declares that he isn’t sick and tired of
N.S.W.
Sir Charles Russell, Q.C., of the English
Bar, for three hours’ circuib work, re-
cently received 600 guineas—over three guineas
per minute.
The Queen’s dairyman, Allan Dunlop, is
dead. He has been milking her Majesty’s kine
almost as long as she has been milking the bovine
British public.
It has been noted as a curious coincidence
that the Emperor Frederick 11. died within 30
feet of where he was born, and at exactly the
same hour of day.
Marshal Ba/.aine died at Madrid on Sun-
day week. Not a Frenchman attended his
funeral. French or English, that’s usually the
way with the unsuccessful man.
Premier M‘llwraith figures for 10 guineas
towards the statue about to be erected to Bobbie
Burns, in Ayr. With him, for the same amount,
are Rosebery and ‘ 1 Triumphant Democracy ” Car-
negie.
Mr. A. P. Backhouse, who has just been
given a commission as an acting Supreme Court
Judge of N.S.W., was, before his call to the Bar
12 years ago, one of the assistant masters of Syd-
ney Grammar School.
Dr. Cortis, M.L. A., drove four-in-hand to
Randwick on Tuesday, and addressed his con-
stituents at Bathurst on Wednesday. The litble
Doctor was more ab home wibh the four-in-hand
than he was with the electors.
“TILEMACHUS.”
Talent often rung in families. Colonel
la*er3oll’s brother is the sturdiest poker-player in
Washington. He was also a member of Congress,
but it is in the former line he reveals genius. He
plays the game for all it is worth and rakes in
huge spoils.
Tnis is the period of the athlete. His
stride is over the land, and his muscle bringeth
glory. The first thing known of Bishop Moore
was that he is 6ft. lin. in stature, and the first of
Bis nop Higgins, who is on his way to Sydney, is
that he is sft. lOfcin. Never mind. The day of
the 4ft. man is coming.
He will have ITs little joke. When
Timothy Breen pleaded guilty to attempt to bribe
the other day, he handed to Judge Docker a
sealed explanation. His Honor felt it carefully,
and then pleasantly observed, ‘ Ha, there are no
bank-notes in this, I presume. ' Some of the
“ foorce ” are still “ laffin’.”
Bulcock haa presented the magnificent
sum of £5 33. to the Brisbane Hospital. He says
it is the balance from the damages and costs of his
recent libel suit. People are speculating whether
the godly Robert, had his damages been the £ >OOO
he went for instead of the £5O he got, would
have handed over the surplus to the hospital.
C. E. Jones, M.L.A. (Yic ), of Paschal
Lamb and Mint Sauce celebrity, is now worth
£3O 000. He made it all this year, and for his
good fortune may thank M. H. Davies, Speaker
of the Victorian Assembly, and Tom Bent, leader
of the Opposition—two of the wealthiest men in
the Southern colony. Jones is now 65, and this is
the firat big “ rise ” he has ever made in his life.
The alleged probable successor to Lord
Caring ton in the government of N.S.W., Sir
Henry Drummond Wolff, was born m the island
of Malta in 1830 : his mother is a daughter of the
Earl of Oxford, whoever that personage may have
been Sir Henry’s life has been spent amidst the
red tape of the Foreign Office from boyhood up,
and should he be foisted upon Australia he will
bring to her government no knowledge of colonial
affairs.
Nothing that Deniehy ever wrote, or
thought, or spoke, says the Ccmbekland Times,
can form any justification for the mawkish drivel
of laudation in which Dan O’Connor indulges at
the expense of the memory of the subject he
would have us believe he worships. To know
Deniehy’s merits as a scholar and a cultured
gentleman, one should have listened to the music
of his tongue. That once silent, nothing in the
shape of literary work he left behind him can
give an excuse for the spurious fame it is now
sought to bespatter his memory with. The. mar-
vellous power of the man over men lay in his
voice ; and in the exquisite delicacy of ear which
enabled him to modulate it so as to bring sound
and sense to bear on the listener, attuned to
an absolutely perfect harmony. This charm
of vocal fascination with which he was
endowed, was heightened by the unspeak-
able meanness of hii personal presence. Ab-
normally shoit of stature, and thin to attenua-
tion, his cadaverous yellow countenance was
splashed wi h enormous freckles. His eyelids,
raw and innocent of eyela-.hes, blinked over eyes
that shone with wondrous brilliancy when, in con-
versation, their possessor became animated ; but
they glared in his interlocutor with so horrible a
squint that it was at first an absolute pain to look
upon them. He wore no beard, but his apology
for a moustache consisted of a few straggling hairs
of the same colourless hue as the groundwork of his
freckled face. Ttie mouth, rather large and eaily
lacking in firmness, possessed all the mobility in-
dicative of a born orator. His ample fort*
head was overlaid with a thick shock of tow-
coloured hair, which, after the fashion of the
tim ’, was worn long and cut an equal lengbh all
round the head. Such was bhe atomy in which
the fervent soul of Deniehy resided ; and it is
the remains of that insignificant looking body that
Dan O’Connor it in holy raptures over the ex-
humation and re-interment of. But it was when
Deniehy spoke that his bodily presence was for-
gotten ; or was transfigured to the beauty of an
angel in the eyes of the listener. In this fact lies
the best proof we can offer of the intellectual
vigour of the man, his wonderful felicity of
phrase, exquisite choice and adaptation of words,
and the marvellous sweetness of the dulcet
tones in which he poured forth the unflagging
stream of his delicious talk. An ardent admirer
of De Quincsy, there was much, both physically
and intellectually, in common between the men.
A similar lack of muscular power was united to an
abnormal intellectual entrgy, which manifested
itself more in a critical than in a creative, form.
Both were the victims of the fatal fascinations of
artificial excitement, a craving which the older
man happily lived to conquer after a sbruggle so
fierce that the story of his emancipation from the
bonds in which he lay enthralled, as told in the
“ Confessions of an Eoglish Opium Eater, ’ will
fascinate men as long as there is force in language.
Deniehy, alas ! died in the struggle.
THE SAVINGS BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
BARRACK STREET,
SYDNEY,
(As remodelled).
Amongst the numerous improvements to the City
of Sydney now in progress, not the least notice-
able is that of the remodelling and almost the re-
building of the Savings Bank of New South
WftlsSi "
The growth of business which has taken place
of recent years has rendered necessary an increase
in the accommodation of the building erected
nearly forby years ago, and which, while it has
well served its purpose hitherto, was found to be
deficient in various modern improvements and
facilities for the transaction of business, as well
as of a somewhat antiquated exterior.
The trustees, therefore, in the early part of the
present year decided on so enlarging and altering
the premises as to bring them into harmony with
the requirements of the present day and to give
them an appearance and character suitable to the
importance of the institution.
Designs for this purpose have been prepared by
Messrs. Mansfield Bros , the architects to the
Bank, and the works are now in course of
execution.
They comprise the erection of an additional
story and the construction of a colonnade in front
of the building, which will practically constitute
a new fa§ade, and which will present some strik-
ing characteristics.
We give an illustration of the elevation in our
issue of to-day.
It consists of three orders, each of six columns,
with entablatures of correct classic proportion,
and in their proper superposition, viz;, the Doric
order on the ground floor, the lonic above, and
the Corinthian over that again. It is but rarely
that an opportunity offers in our street architec-
ture to allow of the use of three orders of indepen-
dent columns, and it i 9 well that so favourable a
chance has been availed of by the architects.
The Doric columns—already executed—are of
polished grey granite.
The lonic and Corinthian columns will be of
dark red polished porphyry from the Pyrenees,
while the balustrades between the columns will be
of various coloured marbles from Italy and
France. ;
The entablatures will be executed in the finest
Pyrmcnt stone.
The effect of these coloured materials, thrown
into relief as they will be by the depth of shadow
behind them, cannot fail to be striking.
The additional storey will be mainly devoted to
rooms for the occupation of a responsible officer
who will reside on the premises.
The rooms on the first floor will be devoted en-
tirely to business purpose.
A new strong room of large size is also being
built, and the old strong rooms are being so al-
tered and improved as to add greatly to their
security and convenience.
For the more effectual protection of the build-
ing from fire it is provided with a concrete fire-
proof flat roof. This is not only a safeguard for
the building itself, but in the event of fire in
either of the adjoining premises would form an
admirable quoin of vantage from which to com-
bat the flames—surrounded as it is by a parapet
and furnished wish two large fire mains and hose
from which a powerful stream of water could be
projected to a considerable distance.
Fire mains and hose are also provided on every
floo r .
The contractor for the whole of the works is
Mr. R. D. Sime—the carpentry and finishing
trades being under the care of Mr. James White.
The granite columns for the lower story have
been provided by Mr. James Taylor, of Mel-
bourne. The porphyry columns and coloured
marbles for the upper stories are being supplied by
Mr. Geruzet, the agent for a large French com-
pany.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1888.
*5/>- ' __
"y <7U. //73 Oh)y
(for- cc //i r
Gay jbrcce7/cz p-a.'
~J)out>7/e.ss cl to//pe/- ou7o/y
S/?;fc-c AS ct Vary aes,/ra6A
7a-r^c.
//Vorde pfte Idf~
!\S a 9 7 ‘ / ((L i
cJcre
/ >o tyep-
of ftar~
pey


' 3C ~
ec.
\—
■>- O *
X V".
T
. 3
c-~
X, <6
31
tl
.^1
EftK
■„ /H
n 1
)Ti> 1
\T<’
R('
(Gordons Avery
£RC CL S cT/,7 JEA/EP, Y 2>/D AJ T
/iPPKover ay.
/. /» c/c Lh c?'s P cc s
/ @SV/? £TA'h~ f XyT <CDcc-c> cx./,y^o>rcLof:
Xf/LL _ A? / you Jye. Gct/V'e. /A/te/p
<u f?//j<z. cur <%/
2E /f z? rf/-(X jcc y g cl?- n. ho r?oi-&- Co Y&yy
Sir 'Enery's “Splendid Action” at Newcastle.


SWEET HOIIOMA, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price 3s. 6d.,
ss. and 10s. Post Free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-street East,
HKLBOIJKNK.
Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patented Arti
fical Bar Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing cures have been effected. Send for 132’
paged illustrated book containing “ Essay oh Deafness,’
llustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
from Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
oured by these Drums, and who feoommend them.—Dr.
NICHOLSON, 86 William Stbbat, Melbourne.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they oan get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Perfumery Co.’s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition* All Melbourne
I* on ibis Scent
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the followln
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves 1 The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W.H. PALING & GO., Ui.
356 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.O,
Society
Bollenge
[?]
No public man in Queensland is more
generally and cordially disliked than the repre-
sentative of Her Most Gracious Majesty. Socially,
Sir Anthony Musgrave is stiff, stilted, and uncon-
genial. Politically he is equally stilted, as the
recent matter of the Kitts’ case undeniably proves
At his own dinner-parties, there are very few of
his guests of whom he vouchsafes to take the
slightest notice apart from the customary hand-
shake upon arrival and departure. Government
House receptions and entertainments under the
present regime are quite a bugbear to all the
social cliques, and are a much greater source of
offence than of pleasure to everybody, except, of
course, the small and exclusive Government House
coterie, it is remarked with much amusement
that a certain few —and those not persons of any
political, commercial, or social distinction apart
from the prestige Government House patronage
affords them —are to be seen at Government House
on every occasion and that they seem to take a
far more prominent part in “ doing the honours ”
than the legitimate host. A colonial Governor is
now-a-days pract’cally a dummy, politically more
for ornament than use, the Royal Prerogative
notwithstanding. When he is a social dummy
also the questions naturally arise: What is he
here for? and, Why is he paid his high salary?
The autocratic Sir Anthony added not a little to
his unpopularity by his behaviour in seizing
and appropriating the only sleeping-car while
coming overland from Sydney recently, ex-
cluding several members of Parliament from
the car which they had bespoken, and send-
ing his servants to dine with them while he
kept the largest and best table for himself—which
action has been stroDgly commented upon by the
Press, There are certainly Governors and
Governors. Not very long ago, while Sir Henry
Loch was trayelling overland to Melbourne, a
young Tasmanian, travelling by the same train,
rushed rather late into the refresbment-rcom at
one. of the stations, and tcok the first unoccupied
chair. After he was seated he discovered, some-
what to his dismay—fearing that the seat might
have been kept for some other “ big guns ” —that
his next neighbour was the Governor of Victoria.
But Sir Henry Loch had evidently taken his seat
promiscuously with the other passengers, and was
at once polite to the late comer, offering and
handing things within his reach. A notable con-
trast to the churlish Sir Anthony, who could
allow weary and travel-worn fellow-men to lie
about in a luggage-van on bags or boxes while he
had at his disposal several unoccupied sleeping-
berths. In politics the Governor does not pre-
tend to disguise his preference for Sir Samuel
Griffith and his policy, and thinks it a calamity
for the colony that Sir Thomas M ‘II wraith and
the National party should be rulers. People in
Brisbane do not hesitate to say that it was his
personal dislike to Sir Thomas which animated
the Governor’s action re Kitts. However, in
that matter, His Excellency swallowed his very
bitter pill in a most decorous and manly way. Sir
Thomas and Lady MMlwraith were invited to an
“ At Home ” at Government House very shortly
after the decision. Lady MTlwraith only appeared
(Sir Thomas being engaged in the House) and was
made much of by both his Excellency and Lady
Musgrave. At Lady Musgrave’s latest weekly
reception, Sir Thomas and Lady M Ilwraith pre-
sented themselves, and were most gushingly re-
ceived by Sir Anthony and his wife. Sir Samuel
and Lady Griffith —we are really very tired of
writing about “Sirs” and “Ladies” —were also
present, and the general mixing up of these
sworn opponents within the four walls of the
small drawing-room at Government House was a
very amusing and interesting spectacle to the
other visitors.
• •
The two Northern political leaders have
always been amazingly bitter and vindictive in
their opposition to each other, and their followers
have acted in a like spirit. But a political and
social millennium is now predicted for Brisbane.
Sir Samuel has a brother in Brisbane—Mr. Ed-
ward Griffith (manager of the Royal Bank of
Queensland, and recently of the Australian Joint
Stock Bank, Sydney ), a genial and sociable man,
whose conviviality is in great contrast to Sir
Samuel’s cold austerity, and whose end and aim it
is to be friendly with all parties. He has over-
come the M‘llwraithian antipathy to the Griffith
clan, he is on visiting terms with his brother’s
opponents, and he has vowed to make the two
political leaders “cousins.” At a ball recently
given by Mrs. Edward Griffith, at the Centennial
Hall, Adelaide-street, there was a general re-
shuffling of the social and political cards. Persons
who would have looked daggers at each other not
long ago, went off amicably to supper together,
Mr. E. Griffith taking in Lady MTlwraith;
Sir Samuel, Mrs. Pat. Perkins; the Hon. Pat.
with Lady Griffith, and so on. Sir Thomas
MTlwraith was not present until late at night.
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Griffith are valuable addi-
tions to Brisbane society; they entertain fre-
quently and well. Sir Samuel and Lady Griffith
have a residence splendidly suited for hospitable
purposes, yet it is a notable fact that very few
strangers ever break bread in the ex-premier’s
house. While he was at the head of the Govern-
ment, he contented himself with giving one or
two large dinner-parties during the year, and,
perhaps, a river-picnic to a few friends in the
Government steam launch “Lucinda.” The
MTlwraiths are eminently hospitable, entertain-
ing all the distinguished strangers, and giving six
or seven balls during the season at their house. Of
course Sir Thomas’s enemies say that he is a
better money-maker than Sir Samuel, and, there-
fore, can afford to disburse more freely.
The Australian Ciub, Sydney, has cele-
brated its Jubilee. The old fogies apparently en-
joyed themselves at the banquet, as ojae morning
j ournal asserts that the toasts were received with
“an enthusiasm bordering on hilarity.” It is re-
lated of this Club that when William Charliss
Wintworth - vide Dan. O’Connor—went home
for the last time his club-mates banqueted him.
The newspapers of the day were anxious to report
his speech but club rules prevented it. However,
one enterprising reporter assumed for the nonce
the uniform of a military bandsman, and next
morning one newspaper at least had a full report.
* . •
Manly Beach (Sydney) would be an excel-
lent watering-place if it possessed any easily-
accessible baths where men could bathe By the
courtesy of the Inspector of Nuisances people are
allowed to undress on the ocean beach before 7
o’clock a.m. daily; those who venture to bathe
after that hour are liable to be fined for obscenity
—we are not quite sure, indeed, whether they
may not be flogged. For several days the ocean
beach, aforesaid, was rendered absolutely pestil-
ential by the exhalations from thousands of decay-
ing jellyfish, which were allowed to fester in the
sun, though they might have all been gathered up
in a few hours by a man with a rake. Then at
one corner of the Beach there was a fine large
dead pig, which had been cast up by the sea. and
that also roasted and rotted on the sand. How-
ever, what the eye doesn’t see, the heart doesn’t
grieve for : the aldermen don’t bathe—in the sea.
• • •
The Melbourne Exhibition commissioners,
or the Art Gallery trustees, are earnestly desired
to liven up and do something with that “Bull
and Herdsman,” for which sculptor Boehm has
just received a little cheque. The Bull (who
certainly isn’t a feather-weight) was shipped to
Australia with marble supports, the same to be
cut away, according to Boehm’s express instruc-
tions, before his piece of statuary was put in posi-
tion. The commissioners, seemingly having an
idea that the marble was gradually “ settling
CELESTIAL HARMONY.
SICK HUSBAND (with his eyes closed) : “MY DEAR, I THINK MY TIME HAS COME
AT LAST. I CAN HEAR STRAINS OF THE SWEETEST MUSIC THAT
EVER MORTAL EAR"
WIFE OF HIS BOSOM : “THAT'S A GERMAN BAND IN THE STREET, JOHN.”
S. H. (rousing himself ): “TELL ’EM GO TO THE NEXT STREET!”
down, ” hesitated to remove these supports. The
Art Gallery people bought the work as it stood,
and are leaving it in the same absurd state. Our
common humanity is outraged by the spectacle of
a Herdsman tugging at a Bull that is kneeling on
one stump while its stomach is impaled on
another. And, allj this time, the majestic beast
ought to be pawing the air and progressing
steadily.
• *
The “Disabled Clergyman,” who writes
lay sermons for Melbourne Herald, is getting
too giddy. He goes to theatres. The other night
he attended the Princess amphitheatre, and found
the assembled gods to be “sober and industrious
folks ; not a single one appearing in any way the
worse for drink, and none smoking .” What is the
disabled rook giving us ?
* * *
9 •
That young husband whom the elderly
Duchess of Montrose has taken to her manly
bosom is described as lamblike and ugly. We hac
pictured him to be a male “ tart ” —soft blue eyes,
silky moustache, clear complexion, and so forth.
But they say the old girl must have married for
money again, as she always used to do. Well,
well.
* *
Rav. John Higgins, a Victorian vegetarian,
has lifted up his voice against the “ cursed meat.”
He says that if people gava up meat-eating there
would be less quarrelling, less fighting, and no
wars. The lad assertion bristles with truth.
Armies would certainly decline to conquer or die
on cold tinned vegetables and tapioca pudding.
By the way, with the abolition of meat would our
dear old iriend, the man who has a steak in the
country, disappear for good ?
The Melbourne Observer state 3 :
A young- girl named Elizabeth Scott, of the larrikiness
typ?, was brought up by Constable O’Sullivan on a charge
of insulting behaviour. In company with gome others of
her class of both sexes, the girl was in Brueswick-street
on Saturday night, and in full light of the shops demon-
stratively kissed one of her male companions. A fine of
10). was inflicted.
Weeping Rachel! And this is insulting beha-
viour ! The time has actually arrived when a girl
can’t kiss tin youth of her affections under the
gas-light without being charged with insulting
Constable O’Sullivan—we presume because she
didn’t kiss that bog-trotting minion of the law
instead of the other fellow. Shade of the departed
Pompey! Ghosts of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob
gaze upon the scene ! Holy Moses ! Also great
Jehosophat !
A society item. Female prisoners at
Darlmghurst Gaol are, on entering, denuded of
every personal adornment. Quite recently a
“ lady ” was relieved of her wig, and did her term,
to the great amusement of her fellow-confinees,
with a head as smooth as a billiard-ball. In the
dark days of N.S.W. the greatest punishment
.that could be inflicted on female prisoners in the
“ Factory ” was to cut off their hair.
* B •
Honolulu doesn’t take kindly to the
hollow civilisation of Yurrup, and it states the
fact with bricks. When Queen Kapiolani—this
name is spelled in eleven different ways and none
of them are right; in fact there is no right way of
spelling it at all—returned from her visit to the
Old World she brought with her 1G trunks of
European garments and several thousand photo-
graphs of herself in her new attire, these latter
being exhibited to her admiring subjects in the
shop windows of the capital. Then the dusty sons
and daughters of the land gathered together and
heaved boulders into the shops and broke up the
emporiums into splinters, and when her coloured
Gracious appeared in the streets they screamed
at her and followed her with hunks of mud. The
Queen bore up against the storm for a while, but
at last the capital began to show signs of approach-
ing revolution, and with a sigh she reluctantly
hung her evening dress on a nail behind the palace
door, and deposited her new bonnet on the mantel-
piece, and went back to the simple attire worn by
the mothers of her race, the same consisting
chiefly of a bathing suit and a pair of boots.
.* * *
The cable tells us that an American has
confessed that it was he who murdered the women
whose mutilated bodies were lately found in
various parts of London. It is indicated that his
object in committing these horrible and almost
unprecedented crimes was to provide himself with
certain actual specimens of anatomy, “one of
which was to be issued with each copy of a new
book that was being printed in America.” This,
at last, is the apotheosis of the American book>
bend. The cable has since gone back on the above
assertions bub that doesn't matter j the cable goes
back on everything and everybody.
* * *
The following ads. are from Dlbbs’ friend,
the Sydney D.T.
TAUNCAN,—For the love of Heaven return. I am
left in poverty. What can Idoin a strange land
without you ? Our boy is ill, and will die if he has
not proper nourishment.—Deborah.
■pRANK,—Come in at private bar. I will wait on
stairs 2 o’clock to-day. The old sneak is here for
a week. “ You mind me now.”—A.
"JV/TANY thanks, Hughie, old man ; I am off ; good-
bye. Give them all my love. Will write to
you.—Yours, Tommy.
Such is life!
* * #
Dear Bulletin, —I notice a syndicate in
Melbourne consists of 13 members : 11 are styled
gentleman, 2 are only solicitor. Reasoning in-
ductively, a solicitor can’t be —anything but a
solicitor when he goes into silver mines. Here I
note that a suit of his Majesty’s prayer-books
consists of 13 cards, including a knave and a deuce.
—Scotty the Wrinkler.
A Sydney P.M., the other day, in fining
two lads for engaging in the highly intellectual
game of “ heading ’em,” delivered himself of a
moral lecture on the gambling tendencies of
the age, pointing out that gambling, like drink-
ing, frequently led to ways that are dark. So far
so good. But The Bulletin knows an up-
country Police Magistrate— not one of your un-
regenerate Js.P., but a real life P.M. who, in
the morning, fined a man for going “ odd man
out ” for drinks at a public-house, and in the
evening, at a card-party at his own villa, fleeced
his guests of £l6O at a game of “ nap.” Fact!
• •
“Pawn me word!” ejaculated the young
man in the “Lands.” “Do,” replied she,
sweetly ; “you have pawned everything else !”
Has the amateur singer noticed that he’s
never thanked till he stops ?
A local paper says that the young ladles of
Napier (N.Z.) display great anxiety to become
nurses and minister to the sick at the district
hospital. It furthermore remarks that eight
nurses have been married from that invalid depfjt
within a short while.
* • %
The following insinuating advertisement
appeared in the Melbourne Age, the other day
“ Evening school. General education, backward
gentlemen.” We presume the classes are taught
by youog ladies and held in a dim parlour. We
pause here to wink, and continue :
Will you tell us, if you please,
Lovely teachers, at your ease—
Teachers of the savoir faire —-
Do you—tell us, tell us, please !
Take your scholars on your knees
If you do —Bxpect us there !
* * *
A Melbourne paper accuses a young
mechanic of displaying a noble spirit because he
complained in court of being set down on the jury-
list as a pensioner, and repudiated the aspersion
the classification implied. This is not a noble
spirit—-at least it is very unlike that displayed by
the nobles we have met.
Dear Dunean Gillies, round your mouth
The wrinkles gather thick and fast,
And crows-feet tell of vanished youth ;
The youth that can’t forever last ;
Tis time that Duncan took a wife,
And fairly settled down for life.
Go forth and buy the wedding-ring,
The little mystic hoop of gold—
For, Duncan, you have had your fling,
And, darling, you are growing old ;
Enough of warm, unhallowed kisses—
Look far or near, and find a missis.
As waves ye are blown on a smiling sound
Out to a sea where ye all are lost;
As clouds ye fade in blue profound,
When the sky is no longer tempest-tost—•
Cestus of Venus and Psyche’s cone,
Peplon of Helen and sandal shoe,
Woffington’s crinoline, Pompadour’s zone—
Laugh, for the bustle must follow you !
Into the limbo of Fashion’s tools,
Into the charnel of Beauty’s slaves,
Out of the reach of the fondest fools,
Gone as the foam on the fleeting waves,
Past endearment, and out of the ken
Of the fondest lips that would swear to be true,
Ye that have once been worshipped by men—
Laugh, for the bustle must follow you !
But not to be laid ’mid the sacred dust
Of the withered roses of high romance ;
For a bustle no knight e’er plighted his trust,
No cavalier shivered his loyal lance !
Theirs were the beauties and saints of old —
There are beauties and saints to-day, it is true—
And so, ye shreds of a splendor cold,
Laugh, for the bustle must follow you I
EECHANGE.


Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-whitb
Patjsnt Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Winea from
Hookings, 410 George Street, near King Street,
[?]
846 Macquarie street North, Sydney, <>ot. 3, 1888.
Mv DEAR MOORAMNDA, —
Now that the summer is approaching, and the civil
servant oan urge the “sun-struck” plea on his official
superior with some chance of success, I mean to say a few
words on the subject of what’s to be worn in parasols.
The newest are of white smocked silk, with ball heads of
embossed gold. Pretty, useless-lookiDg sun shades are
composed of large petals cf muslin laid over each other >
others have a frilled frayed ruche round the edge, or a
row of leaves and ferns laid just inside the edge, or a
spray of flowers and leaves sewn on at the ferule and
again close to the edge. As to their sticks —they are all
long, and the most “ modish ” tops are solid gold or metal
heads. And, speaking of “gamps,” here is one to be
coveted. A handle of carved ivory tipped with gold,
holding a beautiful white silk parasol, w ith each section
handpainted with clutters of pale primroses, and a white
ostrich-feather carried from each rib of the frame. There’s
a sunshade to put up in front of your dearest friend at
the Melbourne Cup 1
Another change in women’s hats ! The present fashion-
able hat is a gorgeous affair—something not unlike and
not many degrees smaller than a soiled-linen basket,
trimmed with velvet bows, deceased animals, birds, and
other trifles. It is quite painful to me to see a delicate
girl in ODe of these hats trying to beat her way up the
block against a head wind I sat behind a girl in the
stallß ia a Sydney theatre lately whose headgear was a
miniature museum of defunct wild fowls, &c. Just be-
fore the curtain rose she quietly took it off and kept it
in her lap during the whole of the performance !
I read in a London journal, recently, that “there are
no more tight bodice3—no more high collars—no more
long wasp-like waists—no more tight sleeves, no more
tournures, no more high heels, but everything loose,
natural, and comfortable.” In fact, the now-styled
“ Directoire” and “Empire” gowns (originally “Kate
Greenaway ” costumes) have all the running both in Lon-
don and in Paris, and society in both places has its frooks
made with very short waists up under the armpits and
full plain skirts with three frills round the bottom. I
wonder how long this idea will obtain and how long it
will be ere it appears on the pavements of George and
Collins-streefs? The Australian public is already
thoroughly broken in to such attire, for in “Monte
Cristo ” Letty Lind’s two toilettes have waists high under
the aims, and in ons act the frocks cf the syrens of the
chorus are all clso built that way. By-the-bye, stays
aren’t worn with thess rigs-out—therefore let us suppli-
oate for fhe'r advent. Just thiok of the Elevated Joy to
be obtained in viewing the Melbourne Cup without any
corsets on ! !
If the Gaiety Burlesque Company we re inclined to be
boastful (which, of course, they are net) they could point
out that the fastest railway journey on record was accom-
plished by the special train which conveyed Miss Nellie
Farren, Leslie, and Co. from London to Exeter, en route
for Austialia. The journey o' 197 miles, in which stop-
pages were made at Swindon tnd Bristol, was performed
in 3brs. 49min.—an average of 55 miles an hour. The
last 20 miles were run in considerably under 20 minutes.
And, “only fancy ! ’ (as the girls say) all this hurry-sourry
and expense was cheerfully borne in order that the deah
darlings might the sooner enjoy the felicity of getting a
sight of us!
Nellie Farren says she would like to be buried “ in the
Strand opposite the Gaiety Theatre.” Let us .pray that
the Strand may disappear before Nellie.
At a certain Australian theatre the other night two
ladies passed into a stage-box the curtains whereof were
quickly drawn and never unclosed during the performance
which generally means—let’s see: —
’Tis sweet indeed to spoon
With a pro.
And —well, hubby’s but a loon,
Boorish, slow,
So “just draw the curtain tightly,”
That’s the game that we play nightly
Don’t you know.
Apropos, there is one Sydney firm of managers who don’t
allow the performers to enter any of the boxes, and I
have never seen a drawn box curtain in that theatre yet!
There is a good story related of a certain Collins-street
doctor at whose house a man lately asked to see Sawbones
about a brass door-plate. The doctor’s wife answered the
door, and enquired, in a supercilious soprano, if her hus-
band was wanted professionally or on business, and, on
finding it to be the latter, she said, “ Oh, you are one of
those tradespeople, are you? Well, you can’t see the
doctor, he is worried to death with tradespeople.” “Well,”
replied the man, “if the doctor heard yer, I’m sure he
wouldn’t allow bis cook to be uncivil.” “ Cook, indeed ! ’
panted the lady, indignantly, “ I’m his wife 1” “ Oh,’'
replied the irrepressible artisan on the mat, “ I ’eard as
ow Doctor had a very vulgar wife, but I didn’t
think it was true afore.” Then he left, and she went in.
side to vent her feeliDgs on the cat. P.S. — On dit that
she has never been to the door since
A certain Australian doctor rejoices in a wax
nose, which the jocund young daughter of one of his
patients tweaked off the other day ; and another is
alleged to have a wax foot. The profession’s getting quite
patchy, isn’t it ?
I hear that an amusing sight in the Art Gallery at Mel-
bourne Exhibition, on a recent occasion, was a well-
dressed and massive lady towing her olive-branch along
by a piece of rope tied round his waist. Billy was evi-
dently a loseable infant in crowds, and his mamma’s idea
is very clever indeed —yet I hope Lady Carington won’t
commence leading the Hon. Miss Carington about in such
a fashion, for then the whole infancy of Potts and Darling
Points, would have to be roped, and each Sydney society-
mamma would look like an organ-grinder with he*
In a very smart article on “ The Opening for Educated
Women in Australia,” a writer in a London journal gives
the kawlinies a very bad name. “ Language and high-
olass culture are neither looked for nor appreciated,” she
declares, and then, after impressing the fact that both in
Melbourne and Sydney the market is cruelly overstocked,
the work mere slavery, and the pittance almost con-
temptible, urges English governesses not to emigrate, or
if they will not be warned, never on any account to come
out without “ reliable information from someone in Aus-
tralia, good letters of introduction, a recommended house
to stay at, and at least £5O in her pooket, as well as a large
stock of endurance, patience, and adaptability.” Having all
these qualifications, with a good education to boot—she
stands a fair chanoe of obtaining a situation in which she
will teach one half and help in the house the other half
for £‘2o a year 1 Meanwhile Bridget, who cooks the mate
and praties, is eagerly advertised for at 255. a week,
which is £65 a year ! And even then distracted house-
wives have to cringe to fearful creatures in red satin, im-
ploring them to come and reign absolute in their kitohens.
Yes, the bitter cry of help-lecs Australia is “ non-
governess, sed Bridget” without doubt.
The last day of the A.J.C. Spring meeting, ’BB dawned
at Rand wick on the 29th ult., and was signalised by the
attendance of such a crush that “ standing-room only”
was obtainable on the grand-stand during each heat, if
you don’t olaim your seat from an early hour and sit on
it all the time. The Baron, in a black-boxer, appeared
for a little while and then vanished, but the Hon. Rupert
Carington—who, by the way, was for some years a mem-
ber of the House of Commons—and “ for-ever-and-ever-
amen,” “ E.W.” kept his memory green by staying
to the Final Handicap. Miss Nellie Farren wore
a orimson velvet redingote over a matching silk
skirt, white kid gloves, black parasol, cluster of
violets, and maiden-hair at the waist, and semi-high
hat burdened with ostrich feathers en mite. Mr. Fred.
Leslie was really beautiful in a cream-coloured suit with
a bright blue scarf. A fair number of pleasing attires
graced the lawn. The wife of the patron of poets wore
grey poplin designed in brown, with full front and skirt
panel of cream lace, cream lace bonnet ornate with yellow
ribbon and cream strings ; and a Darlinghurst lady made
an effective appearance in gobelin-blue poplin and cash-
mere with ivory tulle bonnet adorned w ith cream ribbon
and strings and cluster of ivy in the front. Miss Win-
deyer wore pink and blue striped, with smoke
grey gauze hat trimmed with gloire-de-Dijon
roses. Mrs. J. H. Wtite wore one of those deli-
ciously filmy “Ascot” mantles made entirely of
black lace, over a skirt of black silk and broche— black
hat adorned with black lace, black wings, powdered with
gold and black strings. Maggie Knight was quietly
arrayed in dark-blue spotted with white, trimmed with
lace, dark-blue velvet hat covered with white gauze. A
really entrancing gown was of sap-green poplin made en
Directoire over a jupe of striped sap-green and yellow
velvet designed in darker green, a drawn gauze hat ornate
with ribbon en suite, and adorned with clusters of salmon-
roses, foliage and mignonette, and a parasol exactly
matching. Wasn’t that nioe ? Mrs. H. M Quade wore
grey with a white vest and cream lace bonnet. A
pretty frock was of shrimp-pink, contrasted with
a spring green moire, with which were worn
tan shoes, a pink parasol, and a white gauze hat ornate
with white ribbon and pink roses. Another rechetche
toilette was of French grey silk made with loose fronts
over a pleated vest of salmon-pink, grey hat ornate with
pink wings. As to the rest of the people sent, the fat
lady wore a Beach costume of black and yellow stripes
and she mounted a huge black bonnet with.a large, stiff,
yellow poppy perfectly upright on the top thereof.
Then Mr. G. R. Dibbs might have been observed uncon-
sciously striking attitudes on the asphalt in front of the
Grand Stand ; Sir John Robertson eddied to and fro ; a
sad-eyed poet in spectacles wore large checks, and wanted
to have his hair cut —and, oh, let me not forget to tell you
about the “ What-is-it” individual of the male persuasion
who skipped about in corsets and a long, black frock-coat
almost down to his heels ! He had a tiny little head, too,
and his waist, I'm sure, didn't measure more than 18
inches at the most. When he was climbing up the Grand
Stand he looked the image of a black beetle “ on the
forage.”
An enthusiastic correspondent covers two sheets of
paper telling me that a Ladies’ Invitation ball at the
Clarencetown School of Arts, on a recent occasion, was
simply a whirl of perfect bliss from the first waltz.
Nellie Farren’s “ben.” at Sydney Royal on the 29th
resulted in a dense throng of dress-suits, bare shoulders,
and an avalanche of bouquets. Lord and Lady Carington
oocupied the vioe-regal box, and all the stalls were re-
served at d.c. prices. The beneficiare appeared as
Edmond Dantes, Captain Phoebus, and Nan, the Good-for-
Nothing.
Innocent man wondereth much, in his ignorant way,
why girls wear parasols fitted with such preposterous
knobs. Well, let me assure him that there is method in our
madness, for each large knob opens with a spring and
affords a receptacle for powder-puff, rouge-tablet, tiny
mirror, &c., &c.
They say that One of the most appalling sights in Syd-
ney is to view the fat society female come into the
fashionable cafd, strip off her gloves to reveal diamonds
up to her knuckles, and then—take salt with her knife !
When Peter Kemp rowed in well ahead of his opponent,
the other day on the Parramatta, I noticed that several
steamboats “ crowed ” with their whistles. I don’t like
that. It is mean to “ holler ” over a beaten man.
The English football team are having rather a bad time
in the kawlinies, for in Auckland they all got capsized
out of a drag, and now there is a boom in arnica and
court-plaster in the land of the merry Maori.
Mrs. Admiral Fairfax will not receive at Admiralty
House, Sydney, until the 16th October.
I hear that the funds of the “ Carington ” (Mr. Paling's
gift) Convalescent Hospital will be benefited to the extent
of £5OO by the Rosehill Hospital Meeting of 19th Sept.
The return entertainment tendered to Mr. John Harris,
Mayor of Sydney, by the members of the “ Dialectic
Association,” happened at the Town-hall, on 24th ult.,
when a pot-pourri programme of songs, recitations,
amateur theatricals, dancing and refreshments was suc-
cessfully negotiated. Nearly all the civic dignitaries
were present, and the proceedings were lent a kind of
subdued and mellow grandeur by the attendance of one
or two real live—M’s.P.
Omy treacherous sex 1 Poor deluded man reposes
his full, all-wool-will-wash-like-a-rag confidence in you
until the hair rushes from the top of his head and his
teeth drop out—and yet you are basely getting at him
right through for all he’s worth. The above strictly
original and improving aphorism is suggested by a re-
mark made to me by a Sydney matron whom I surprised
the other day carefully folding and brushing her hus-
band’s coat. “ How good of you not to leave his war-
paint to the maid,” said yours ever gushingly. “ Not at
all,” she replied, pointing to a sum of money on the
dressing-table—“ that fell out.” What highwaymen
some wives are 1
I hear that the one failure in Haddon Chambers’ suc-
cessful drama, “ Captain Swift,” now delighting them
•• over the pond,” is that the hero strikes his matches on
his boot-soles instead of—well, in the usual manner.
This is quite a serious failure in “ Vitz,” isn’t
it ? Why, a friend once informed me that he knew
an individual from the interior whose inexpressibles had
a furrow right across them solely through striking
matches !
In the “ language of flowers,” ivy, the so general top-
knot trimming at present, signifies “ Matrimony.” Now,
I wonder if that is the reason why so many old-young
sooiety girls wear such huge bunches of it on the top of
their three-storied hats ?
It is an acknowledged fact that bicycle sports gather
unto themselves a goodly number of saintly damsels who
almost shriek with horror if you mention opera-tights in
their hearing, and yet the cut of the average wheelman's
pants is so slim, that if one were so inclined one could
write tomes on the unseemliness of cyclists’ tight-flts. As
so many sports-attending maidens won’t gaze on the
chorus I should imagine that the personal claims of the
singers have something to do with it, shouldn’t you ?
The latest Sydney scandal concerns a sensational episode
arising out of a very pretty young lady ’s fondness
for the bottle. After all, this isn't so very astonish-
ing in Sydney. Only the other day I was lunching in the
ladies’ room of a very small cafe when in came two
“ young ladies.” The one ordered sherry and bitters,
the other “ brandy and soda.” Both these fair Toby
Tosspots are well-known in the Upper Circles of the
Beautiful Harbour, and are seen at Government House
shivaroos with the regularity of clookwork.
At the A.J.C. meeting, on the 28th ult., Lady Caring-
ton wore a very pretty gown of black, lightened with
dove-colour.
Sir William Jervois’ term of vice-regal rule expires in
Maroh next, when bis New Zealand Excellency, together
with his family, leave the island of tatoo for the “ Big
Smoke.” Apropos, Sir William pronounces his name
Jarvis, not “ Gervaw,” as so many enlightened denizens
of the Beautiful Harbour frequently express it.
And, speaking of alterations in the tenants of Austra-
lian Government Houses, it is cabled that an individual
answering to the name of Wolff is to inhabit the Inner
Domain when the Baron is again clasped unto the Prince of
Wales’ bosom. That mildewed aphorism, “ Always keep
the Wolff outside the door,” fit 3 in here beautifully,,
doesn’t it?
A recent S.M.H. agony advt. informed “Gladstone’’
that to arrive at a certain number he had to “pass seven
lamp-posts ” If “Gladstone ” goes to a Masonio installa-
tion fUst 1 e will probably pass fourteen.
The By drey yachting period opened on the afternoon
of the 29th Sept, when fine combinations cf tar, narrow
planks, ar.d canvas walked the water like things of life to
celebrate the t q ratio oooasion. If it hadn’t been for the
A.J.C. meeting at Randwickyour own Sappho would have
sailed down on a paling to count how r many gallant yacht-
men turned sallow off Wat3on’s, but as it is I have only to
take their stveral assertions that nobody even thought of
what he had had for luncheon at any time during the pro
ceedings. By-the-bye, the Double Bay regatta is to even-
tuate on the 27th inst.
“ M.,” in the Twaddle—l mean “ Woman’s column ”of
the S.M.H., in a recent issue raves over the “night
errantry” of our sex, and vacantly and hysterically
shriek that we “no longer intend to pose as sweetly
helpless, contemptuously thrust aside the crown matri-
monial to do battle valiantly for the crown absolute!”
Reads sweetly womanly, doesn’t it ? But the females who
thrust aside the crown matrimonial and have a go-as-you-
nlease for the crown absolute generally do it only in
theory, my dear. If they got a chance to practically fling
the crown of matrimony over the moral garden wall I'm
afraid that coronal wouldn't hustle much. And besides,
the crown matrimonial and the crown absolute are
usually one and the same thing, from a woman’s point of
view, don’t you think ?
At a London banquet, given in honour of the departing
Australian cricketers, by Mr. Fred. Dangar, “both Admiral
Tryon and Lord Harris agreed that athletics constituted
a potent link in Imperial Federation.” Well, yes, the
average athlete looks like as if he was furthering some-
thing of the kind when he skims about with a bat, an oar,
or a football, doesn’t he ? Gracious, he looks fool enough
for anything.
An odd incident ccourred just before the Kemp-
llanlan rowing contest on the 28th ult. A black and
yellow insect, known to infancy as a “ lady-bird,” settled
on the tie of one of the trainers ! This was, of course,
taken as a good omen by the superotitious sports as-
sembled, and so it proved to be, if there’s anything in
omens.
Lord and Lady Carirgton inspected a hairless horse at
Government House the other day. Just for a change, I
suppose, after inspecting the Hairy Premier, eh? —Yours
affectionately, Sappho Smith.
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
At the Durham (Eng.) assizes rcc3ntly the
charge against one of the prisoners stated that she
“unlawfully did cast and throw herself into a
certain sea at South Shields called the German
Ocean, with intent feloniously, wilfully, and of
her malice aforethought, to kill and murder her-
self.” The man who talked like that in real life
would be locked up as a raving maniac.
Melbourne Herald has been knocked all
of a heap by the “ strange conduct ” of a gentle-
man and the extraordinary behaviour of a tram-
car conductor —the class distinction being made
for narrative purposes, and without prejudice to
the conductor, who is probably a gentleman, also,
in private life. It was just this way. One night
the other week the gentleman got into a tramcar
and said to the conductor : “ I saw a man jump
into the Yarra from the bridge down there (Laura
Swain’s bridge) just now.” The conductor said
something else and went on punching tickets, after
which the gentleman got off the tram and “ care-
lessly went on his way with the knowledge that a
human being had perished in the waters of the
Yarra carefully locked up in his breast.” Neither
did the conductor let on about this human being
until next day, when he happened to remember
that somebody had perished because he saw two
policemen casting their nets for the missing corpse.
The Herald’s broken-up condition is now set
forth —“It certainly seems completely astonishing
and almost incredible that two men could thus
keep silence about such a startling and tragic
incident.” But as they certainly did we can only
come to the conclusion that they are philosophers
freely recognising the right of every man to die if
he wishes in the manner he thinks best. And
perhaps they d.da’t believe the man had perished
at all, which showed their good sense, because it
seems that he never has perished except in the
Herald. After a painful endeavour, to find a
moral to this story, and candidly admitting that
it wasn’t there, we must now conclude with love
as it leaves us at present.
The K.C. Church and Denlehy.
Editor Bulletin,— Deniehy’s re-burial, with re-
ligious rites, is not the evidence of inconsistency
on the part of the R.C. Church that you try to
make out. In the firsb place, a generation has
almost elapsed since the first interment took place,
Of course, whatever is a vice at one time will be a
vice always, bub particular vices have seasons of
particular activity and special noxiousness, and
one means of keeping them under is at these sea-
sons to increase the penalties therefor. I don’t
know what Deniehy’s crime in the eyes of his
Church was, nor is it a matter of the slightest
moment in this connection. The fact of his hav-
ing been denied Christian burial 23 years ago does
not carry with it the necessity that a man dying
in the same circumstances should now be
deprived of last rites. Secular law and eccle-
siastical law operate after' the same fashion
in this respect. If the State perceives
that a particular form of misconduct is be-
coming prevalent, it makes penalties in that direc-
tion more severe. This is reasonable, and as the
refusal of last rites is one of the most powerful of
ecclesiastical weapons, the R.C. Church applies it
to forms of misconduct which are not alone bad in
themselves, bub which she fears are liable to
spread indefinitely. When, however, the season
of liability has passed, the necessity for employing
this weapon vanishes. Hence, there may be no
inconsistency in refusing the rites at one time and
performing them at another, when the crime has
been as a crime in both cases the same. Again,
each bishop may make disciplinary laws for his
own diocese. The present Bishop of Bathurst
can have his own laws. The refusal of last
rites, being merely disciplinary, is a matter
for his own judgment and not one he takes
over from a predecessor as an article of
faith. The Catholic Church does not say that
without these last rites a man’s soul will be lost.
She simply says that to warn others to shun his
step 3 she will withhold a ceremony which would
amount to an official imprimatur on his career.
Considering, then, that 23 years have elapsed,
and that so much has changed within that time,
the charge of inconsistency cannot be established
on the grounds made public in the Press. But
still, even though the same Bishop ruled all the
time, and the surrounding circumstances had not
changed, it is to be noticed that the celebrants of
the burial-service in Waverley were Franciscan
priests. Religious orders are the free lances of
the Church. In many respects they are indepen-
dent of the Bishop in whose diocese they reside.
The Bishop may dismiss them from his diocese,
but he must let them follow their own course in
many matters while they are with him. It is con-
ceivable that, even against the will of the local
Bishop, the Franciscans could perform the rites.
This is nob likely to have occurred, but it could
occur. And, finally, if the sentence of the
Church was that Deniehy be buried without the
usual ceremony, the actual fact was that the sen-
tence was carried out in Bathurst, and the trans-
action was ended. The translation of his bones
to Waverley was a totally different thing, and is
covered by a different ceremony. The mistake
critics make is /in confounding what is discip-
linary, and what is therefore only temporary,
with what is good or bad, and is therefore ever-
lasting. It is said that there is something mer-
cenary to bo discovered in the conduct of the
Church in regard to Deniehy. Social influence or
money or something is thought bo be at work.
This is an old way of explaining ecclesiastical
puzzles. But in Deniehy s case it melbs when
touched. Priests in such orders as the Franciscan
make no money. They, individually, begin poor,
live poor, and die poor. The order may become
wealthy, as that of the Jesuits now is, but the
wealth confers no better food or raiment on the
members. Their very clothes are not their own.
They cannot influence the quality of the day’s
dinner, the night’s bed, or where they will go to-
morrow. There are men among them who have
served in army and navy, and held good places in
the professions and literature, and now they simply
do what they are told, eat what is given them, and
take no thought of the morrow. The allegation that
these take a certain course for the sake of money
is made in error. Of course, they are owned body
and soul by their order, and tUe tendency of all
corporations is to amass wealth, but the point to
remember is that if all the wealth of Australia
were turned into the coffers of a monastery the in-
dividual members would not have a sixpence more
in their pockets, or a sixpence-worth more at their
disposal. The secular priest has an advantage in
this respect. He can hold on to what comes
within his reach. The more raised from the
faithful, the more there is for his own private
pocket. A good Sunday gives him a good dinner,
and a numbt r of them give him the times of a
prince. In other words, he has a share in the
business. Energy and a fair amount of luck
will procure for him the best house in
the plaoe, and as big a bank account
as if he had worked at squatting. He
is wholly subject to his Bishop, but his Bishop
is similar in pattern. These all belong to the
great army who work to make the best of both
worlds and who have had the mother-wit to realise
that the bird ia the hand has a sweet voice and
beautiful plumage. These are clergy, and under
the aspect considered, th6y are the same in all
denominations, and likely will continue so; but
the friars—using the word to include the Jesuits —
the men who bring learning, eloquence, and
genius to the Church —are no better off when the
congregation is liberal than when it is stingy,
when the world is extolling them than when it
wants to banish them. The Franciscans, then,
who followed Deniehy’s remains to Waverley may
be spared criticisms based on the idea that the
occasion afforded an opportunity for personal
aggrandisement of any kind. —Yours, &c,, V.R.
The Age is great on languages. A recent
sub-leader on the subjecb of spitting was adorned
with no less than six expressions culled from the
French and Latin tongues, and even then the
writer was evidently not doing all he knew, but
merely throwing off a few stray ideas, as it were.
Dear Bulletin, —The odds that the Fran-
ciscin Father prayed and the Jaynil One made his
“ spaiche ” over the wrong man at Waverley the
other day are as long as the proverbial clothes-
line. Horses, cattle and pigs commenced to make
a picnic-ground of the spot where Deniehy was
dumped over ten years ago, and it was nothing
unusual for the rising generation of Bathurst to
assemble on Saturday and Sunday afternoons and
play football with the soundest skull they found
lying around. Occasionally a thigh-bone would
come to light; this would bi converted into a bat,
a tombstone selected for a wicket, and a capital
game of cricket would go on until the supply of
skulls for balls ran oub. The chances are that
little Dan's cranium was kicked into chips through
a goal or hoisted away to “leg” and lost years
ago.— Bathurst Native.


A FEW SELECTED TESTIMONIALS.
CHARLES S. PACKER
* brilliant Pianist, and the greatest oomposer Australia
has known, the associate of Mendelssohn, Thalberg,
Hummel and Weber ; the accompanist of the world’s
sweetest singers—Mario, Grisi, Lablache; the author of
the “Crown of Thorns,” and many other noble composi-
tions, handed us the following:—
“Sydney, 7th Maroh, 1883.
“ I have tested the Hapsburg Pianos, imported by
Messrs. Beale and Company, in all the various grades, and
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulness, and
power of the instruments. The tone and finish are all
that could be desired. The proper balancing of bass with
treble is strictly adhered to. Generally I consider them
unsurpassed by any instrument hitherto introduced.
(Signed) CHARLES PACKER, Royal Academician.”
Madame CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN wrote :
“ Ayant soumis les PIANOS HAPSBURG, de Messieurs
Beale et Compagnie aux PLUS STRICTES EPREUVES,
je declare avoir <st4 aussi eharmee que surprise de la
DOUCEUR EXQUISE DE LEUR TOUCHER, unie a une
ampleur et une SONORITE REMARQUABLES. Je les
en toute sinc6ritA ALICE CHARBONNET-
KELLERMAN, du Conservatoire de Paris, Sydney, 20
Juin, 1883.”
CERTIFICATE.
" I have subjected Messrs. Beale and Co.’s HAPSBURG
PIANOS to the severest tests, and am greatly surprised
and delighted at their MARVELLOUS SWEETNESS and
POWER. I cordially recommend them.—(Signed) ALICE
CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN, of the Conservatoire of
Paris. Sydney, June 20, 1883.”
Governor Sir W. C. Robinson, of South Australia, the
oomposer of “ Unfurl the Flag” and other patriotic songs,
himself a thorough musician, examined and tested the
HAPSBURG PIANOS, and gave his unqualified recom-
mendation, which was duly reported in the Adelaide
papers at much greater length than can be here given.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Lieutenant-Governor of Queensland,
selected and purchased from us a Hapsburg Piano on
account of its special sweetness.
The BRISBANE COURIER.
“ The Piano used for the accompaniments and the solos
was a brilliant-toned Hapsburg, of which both singers and
players speak very highly.”
TELEGRAPH.
“The Piano used on the ocoasion was a Hapsburg of •
beautiful quality of tone and plenty of power.”
The AUSTRALIAN.
“ The voioes blended beautifully with the accompani-
ment, which was on one of the Hapsburg Grand instru-
ments. The tone of this instrument is exceedingly pure
and powerful, and its qualities under the thrilling touoh
of the conductor were displayed with consummate effeot."
SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone."
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are all of excellent workman-
ship. The manual throughout is remarkably sensitive to
the touch, and the volume is admirably balanoed, and
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments."
VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
_ “ Bishop’s-oourt, Adelaide, November 29,1888.
“ Mrs. Kennion has much pleasure in saying that she
and those who have used the Hapsburg Piano at the
Court have been much pleased by the quality and sweet-
ness of the instrument.
" Mrs. Kennion will have muoh pleasure in reoommend-
lng the Hapsburg Pianos.”
HAYDN ORGANS.
Never require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnut.
Guaranted for Ten Years.
Over ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND of these Organs
have been sold. The best only is the oheapest. The
Haydn Organs are of beautiful design, simple construc-
tion, patent indiarubber bellows (whioh insects will not
touch), ivory keys, massive cases, exquisite tone.
HAYDN HARMONIUMS—Prioes, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPANY. Catalogues Free by Post.
182, 484, 486 Gborgb-strbbt, Sypnbt.
NO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE we will
supply you with Piano, Organ, or TTarrannlm*
wponBASY TIME-PAYMENTS-
THE
Burks Railway Station Reserve,
MALVERN,
ON THE
Direct Glen Iris Railway Line,
AND COMPRISING THE
ns ms mm sun,
Will be Sold by
Munro and Baillieu,
In
Conjunction with F. L. FLINT,
On
Saturday, October 6,
ON THE GROUND.
Situation.
This Estate is at the Corner of
Mil and MALVERN ROADS,
About
<3T FIVE MILES ‘ta
from
LCellsouzne,
on the
GLEN IRIS LINE.
Natural Advantages.
BRACING, INVIGORATING
ATMOSPHERE.
Easy Accessibility from
THE CITY,
Central Position in
THIS RISING SUBURB.
Artificial Advantages.
PERFECT DRAINAGE, METAL ROADS
AND BRIDGES PROJECTED, FIRST
CLASS GAS AND WATER
SUPPLY AVAILABLE.
Approach.
TRAIN TO CAMBERWELL OR TOORAK,
OR BY WAGGONETTES FROM
MUNRO AND BAILLIEU’S
OFFICES
ON DAY OF SALE.
SOLICITORS :
CRISP, LEWIS, AND HEDSERWICR,
51 and 53 CHANCERY LANE.
SURVEYORS :
MUNTZ and BAGE,
45 COLLINS STREET WEST,
AUCTIONEERS :
MUNRO & BAILLIEU,
and F. L. FLINT (in conjunction).
s. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Mti Mil* Fndsrs, Orient Sonn Sin,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD ft CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OIL!, PERSIAN SHERBET,
Ac., Ac.
STEAM WORKS ,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
BYDNEY.
SEASON, 1888 and 1889.
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THE
PUBLIC.
J. H. WHITE,
(Member of Tattersall’s Club, Sydney and Vio-
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
175, PITT STBHHT, SYDNBT.
J. H. White’s Weekly Circular of Current
Prices on all forthcoming events (as quoted at the
Sporting Clubs) forwarded Gratis to any part of
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name and
address.
Centennial Hotel,
SCOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
Newcastle.
Wines, Beers, and Spirits a Speciality.
Hot, Cold, and Showek-Baths on each Flat.
BILLIARDS ! BILLIARDS!
THIS Hotel is now opened, and admitted to bo
the Best Fitted and Furnished Hotel in the
Colony. It is beautifully situated, being directly
opposite the Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to the
Railway Station, and convenient to all the Public
Buildings. A porter meets all trains and steamers.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
WALTER SIDNEY, Proprietor.
This most Celebrated Brand of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES
Has now the LARGEST SALE in the World.
M. Mclachrino A Co., Cairo, and 21 Cockspur
Street, London,
Are by appointment Purveyors to H.R.H. Dukb of Con-
naught, H.R.H. Princb Henry of Prussia, the Courts
and Ambassadors of Europe,
The KHEDIVAL CLUB ... Cairo & Alexandria
~ ARMY and NAVY
CLUB
London
M
GUARDS’ CLUB ... London
CARLTON CLUB ... London
and over
100 leading British and Continental Clubs.
The ROYAL ARTILLERY]
Woolwich, and 30
other Stations
BLACK WATCH
Perth, Dublin and
Malta
COLDSTREAM
GUARDS ...
Windsor
ROYAL ENGINEERS]
Chatham, Alder-
shott and Cairo.
„ LIFE GUARDS ... London
and
150 other Regimental Messes of the British Army.
WARREIT & ROWN,
Sole Agents,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of the Choicest Brands of
umu, mm mm cigars,
ALSO
Sole Agents for the Cademeno Brand of
Egyptian Cigarette.
Fresh supplies arrive by every Mail Steamer. Cigarettes
always fresh and fragrant. Price Lists forwarded on
application.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
■IIB VAMOUR AMD PAYOUEIXB BEAMS
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Still Maintain* It* Prestige and itand* pre-CMlnent awn
tha heat* of other brand* a*
CHE BEST QUALITY BBIAB PIPE OWE BED CO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations,
The undersigned are prepared to anforee the Law aialut
all pareone iMltatlng tbe brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT A 00.,
11l OLJIRBMOB-BTRBHC.
GHBD. GtBD.
We have Large Shipmenti of tbla BRAMD OP BBIAE
PIPES to hand and Begnlar BhipMant* eoMlna forward
WHOT.W«AT,II ONLY
IjIOR SALE, at a Moderate I’lic*, DRESS
JC and STaYMAKER'S BUSINESS, ov,r
30 years established ; excellent connection. Apply
E. Soulie, 92 Russell-street, Melbourne.
N
EWTON AND
LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufaotoby :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
HI
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL EDNISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, In various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spbing and O’Connell Stbbets.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economio
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
o’Connell and Spbing Stbbets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wabdbobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Oupboabd
and Two Cane-Seated Chaibs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbing Stbebtb.
Austrian bunt-
wood
FURNITURE,
A VIBY OOKSKIfI
Abbobtmbrb,
Many quite new design*.
Nbwtoh & Lamb.
CANVAS FOLDING
OOTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10,155. Nkwton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
PATEN
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
136 feet of hanging Bpaoe
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
£JANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Prioe Very Low.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spbing and O’Connell Stbbetb.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustio
Oast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lahb.
ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs
Indian Long-Abm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, bes
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14«. «*eh.
NEWTON aod LAM
Messrs. BEALE & 00. beg to announce that
they are now in occupation of their new and exten-
sive warehouses at the rear of their new buildings
at 482 and 484 George-street. In anticipation of a
large increase in the sale of the inimitable Haps,
burg Pianos, they have just landed out of Peninsu-
lar and Oriental steamers and other ships a really
magnificent choice of these celebrated instruments,
which, by sheer merit, have won their way in
public favour beyond all competitors. Many
thousand Hapsburgs have been sold throughout
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies have
been sent to us testimonials expressing perfect
satisfaction.
The construction of the Hapsburg differs in-
herently from that of other pianos. The following
are some of the qualities which have together
placed it in pre-eminence :
Ist. The most easy and durable action yet in-
vented, viz., check-lever with front escapement.
The parts have been selected with extreme care,
the wood employed being pencil-cedar, an expen-
sive material, but one which will neither shrink,
cast, nor warp.
2nd. The wires are of very besb steel, in the
bass covered with copper only. The vibrations
are reverberated by a sounding board specially
secured against changes of temperature, imparting
a clear full, round, delicious singing tone in
marked contrast to the tin-kettly, metallic sounds
of inferior instruments.
3rd. All Hapsburgs are now double-oblique, th«
Strings being of greater length, thus giving fuller
volume than the old, straight-strung pianos.
4th. All Hapsburgs are trichord.
sth. All have seven octaves A to A.
oth. They have consolidated iron frames of great
strength. These frames are square reaching from the
bottom of the case to the extreme top of the wrest-
plank, securely bolted through the latter. Compound
studs sustain the whole with absolute rigidity.
That these precautions are necessary may be un-
derstood from the fact that the tension of the
wires equals a suspended weight of 13 tons. Thus
the rapid mutations of our climate are resisted
and tuning is only required at long intervals.
7th. The Felts are clinched on the hammers, in-
stead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every piano excepting the Haps-
burg.
Bth. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
Plate as a special safeguard against change. A
split Wrest-plank is an unknown accident to a
Hapsburg.
9th. Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
Cockroaches, Moths, Mice, &c. Wire-gauge
backs are provided.
10th. All interior blocks and bearings are
secured in their places by screws, which is a great
exception to the usual style of construction.
11th. The whole action is made adjustable and
interchangeable.
12th. The Outer Cases are of original and chaste
designs and of perfect finish. They are made of
wellrseasoned, durable, and beautiful woods, and
can be had in Walnut, Rosewood, or Ebony, with
or without gold engraving.


.Fishing Tackle of every description for sea and
river fshing, Wholesale and Retail, Eastway’s,
411 (4eorge-street, Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
A certain amount of cheerful excitement
prevails at present in Western Queensland. A
vast army of rats is marching across the country,
and behind them come millions and myriads of
mice, with hordes of lean and hungry cats follow-
ing after. Then there are the rabbits, and the
Chinaman who is always with us, and the deficit,
and Governor Musgrave, and Kitts and his boots,
all of which make thiugs pretty gay in the land
where the kangaroo frisks and the dried cod-fish
and other birds of gorgeous hues flit and sing
amid the foliage and the emu walketh in darkness
and pursues the maddening flea.
* « •
There was a tale of lost, forfeited, and for-
gotten luggage recently in Adelaide, among the
properties being a number of boxes which various
publicans had seized in satisfaction of amounts
due by defaulting boarders. Several trunks which
had been left behind by a strayed digger excited a
good deal of competition, and there was a struggle
for the heaviest of the lot, an impression having
gone round that it was weighed down with gold
and bulging with nuggets. At last a happy
speculator secured it at a high figure and opened
it on the spot. Inside he found an old boot with-
out a sole, an umbrella, two empty beer bottles,
the sleeve of a shirt, half a towel, a comb that had
gone to seed, a dingo’s tail, three dog’s teeth, and
a huge boulder wrapped in an old coat. The
latter property was at once assayed for gold, but
it proved to be only a section of a very old wall,
and the geologist who reporbed on it charged
£1 Is. for the information.
• « •
This story ought to be true if it isn’t. It
comes to us by a circuitous route, and was handed
down to posterity by a bush-missionary of pious
memory; it is the grievous experience of one
Stephen Murphy, who flourished in the vicinity
of MTntyre’s Diggings (Vic ) many years ago,
and was a child of wrath, a lover of ballads, bar-
maids, and beer. Stephen got drunk whenever
opportunity offered, and a i close up as he could
crowd on all other occasions, greatly to the disgust
of Mrs. Sbephen, whom—poor, misguided woman—
he invariably pounded with a club when too drunk
to appreciate her noble efforts to reforma besotted
inebriate. One day, as Mr. Murphy was sleeping
off the effects of an early drunk, and snoring fit-
fully, unconscious of guile, his better half was
suddenly inspired with a Bcheme of vengeance
dark and dire. There was in the house, im-
prisoned in a tumbler, an interesting natural curio
in the shape of a large, lumbering frog of placid
expression. Stephen had discovered the batra-
chian in a lump of rock some hundreds of feet
below the surface at the Happy-go-Lucky mine,
and secured it as a lusus natures, that would
serve for bric-a-brac to ornament the parlour and
interest visitors. Mrs. Sbephen thought the frog
was good enough to have, bub it had its draw-
backs ; it would squat about all day, and blink
and wink, and never utter a sound, bub when
nighb came on and she wanted to sleep, the out-
rageous creature would croak dolorously at regular
intervals, and keep her awake for hours, so that
she was nob particularly anxious about it, and
would not have sorrowed much had it died of
rheumatism. The scheme of vengeance was
very simple; Mrs. Murphy took up the obese
animal, and, after carefully swathing it in a scrap
of wet flannel, placed it in the vest-pocket of her
slumbering lord ; she then filled the tumbler it had
inhabited with clean water, and laid it to Stephen’s
hand, knowing full well that Mr. Murphy
would awaken as arid as an African wilderness.
And so he did. His first action was to reach for
that glass, and the water fairly hissed as it ran
down his parched neck. “ Wliroo ! Steven,
shtop, ye’re dthrinkin’ th’ frog ! ’ howled his Lv-
ing wife, but it was too late. Stephen set down
the empty aquarium, and stared with abject ter-
ror at the vacancy. “ Wh-h-ab !” he. groaned,
pressing his hand hard against the pit of his
s bom roll, and looking unutterable things. “Ye’ve
swallied th’ curosity ; I’m afbher givin’ him a
dtbrop av wather t’ shwim in whoile I cot him
some flies an’ ye’ve swallied him. Howly mother !
Ye’re a done man, so ye are !” At this juncture
the frog lifted up its voice, and cried out of the
darkness : “ Ka ka, ka-ah, klum klum !” The cry
was smothered and dismal, and, to the frenzied
ears of Stephen, sounded as if it came direcbly from
his interior, where he fancied he felt the flabby
frog hopping over his diaphragm, and sporting
with his immortal soul. “ Grate Sazer !” groaned
Stephen, “ he’s a hen, too ; I know he’s a hen,
an’ in less’n a wake I’ll be full t’ the throat wid
tadpoles ! Katherine Mary Murphy, ye’ve
pizened ye’r lawful husband —bad fare t’ y’er
sowl !” Again the frog distended himself, and
sadly called : “ Ka, ka, ka-ah, klum, klum !” from
his dark recess, and Stephen ran distracted,
he coughed violently, doubled himself up,
stood on his head with his mouth open
whilst his wife rolled his stomach with a
paste-pin, and strained with great endeavour, but
the intruder would not be dislodged and ever and
anon signified as much in the usual manner. Then
Stephen was driven to emetics in his sore ex-
tremity, and he charged himself with reactionary
draughts concocbed of luke-warm water and
mustard, ipecacuanha-wine, castor oil, and other
toothsome items, and hung himself over a fence,
allowing his head and arms to swing in the wind,
and looked so wan and hopeless —so pained and
sad, that the specbacle of him hanging there
might have moved a bailiff to tears. But His wife
was obdurate, and the frog continued to protest
with its wild and woeful “Ka. ka, ka ah, klum,
klum ! ” As a last despairing effort, Mr. Murphy
shook himself up, and cut across the paddocks for
the diggings. He staggered into the bar of the
Golden Hope a few moments later, and sank on
to a form, hatless, pallid, miserable. “Och!
byes, it’s meselfs a gonner,” he gasped, “ if yez
don’t roide loike blazes t’ th’ town for a docthor !
I’ve s wallied th’ big frog !” And by way of second
ing the motion the reptile took a long breath, and
hoarsely croaked his muffled lay. The sympathetic
miners gathered round the sufferer, and a dozen
excellent suggestions for his immediate relief were
at once forth 5 imlag. Sandy M‘Bain wanted, bo
fish for the frog with a bit of bacon on a string.
The idea was tried, Steve swallowed the bacon
and Sandy fished; but after the company had
waited 20 minutes in vain for a bite that project
was abandoned Then Boss-eyed .Tonessuggested
filling Mr. Murphy up to the throat with whisky
and floating the frog up till he could be
reached with a pronged stick.* Another
thought the difficulty might be overcome
by letting a ground-snake down the patient’s
throat to eat the frog, and then yanking the
former back with a clew-line; but nobody had
any ground-snake, and B esseye’s idea was about
to be carried out when Sbephen mechanically drew
the piece of flannel from his pocket, unrolled it,
and disclosed the lost frog. For a moment he
held the creature suspended by one leg before his
disgusted compatriots, gazing like one smitten ;
tjenhesa’d: “That’s my wife!” and went out.
He heard the roar of many men laughing as he
stole across the paddocks and stopped to select a
club. But Mrs. Murphy had suspected trouble
and departed to M‘lntyre to live with her ma till
Stephen’s feelings blew over, and when he reached
home there was nothing bfi to kill but the cat.
When the cat was Blain, all the glassware in the
house broken, and the hen-house burnt down,
Mr. Murphy felt sufficiently relieved t) return to
the Golden Hops and depart on a furious burst
lasting three days and three nights.
Dear Bulletin, —I sympathise with the
people who invited some pro. t~> their house and
found him somewhat sticky. I also saw some-
thing of the sort. When a certaia three yard < of
jaundiced humanity was visiting N S.W. a fiiend
of mine, being generous and somewhat elevated,
asked Mr. Buag to pass a day at his house. Where
Bung dines he sleeps, and the ditto is repeto until
a neighbouring town demands his show. The
beds had all footboards to them, and the rooms
were small; so my friend’s wife, the dearest dot
in Parkesiana, had to fit up a sofa combined with
two sheep hurdles and a porter-case, the last being
full when Bung came The little woman had to
cry once or twice in the kitchen, and the porter
was scoffed in two days ; and now when a mons-
trosity visits the town the lady has to chaperon
her husband and prevent indiscriminate hospi-
tality.—Yours, Soottv the Wrinkler.
* • »
Dear Bulletin, —We had a ball in this
neighbourhood the other day, and unless the
spirit of Muddy Forks and other outlying por-
tions of the district has been quenched, and One-
cow Flat has gone back on the fire which lit up
the souls of its ancestors, we will never have
another without somebody being killed. The fact
was that a poor fellow had been injured in a mine
PLUCKY TO THE LAST.
SPORTING PERSON: “WELL, NED, LICKED AGAIN, EH?’
’ ANLAN: “LICKED! NOT ANY. AS LONG AS THERE'S A PENNY OF GATE-
MONEY TO BE DIVIDED EQUALLY, NED HANLON WILL NEVER BE
LICKED!”
and straightway seven dull and dense Yahoos of
the alleged Christian persuasion set to work to
get up an entertainment and give him the profit,
The entertainment came off in grand style, and a
rough estimate of the gate-money showed about
£2O to the good. But during the evening thB
committee became very tight, and split itself up
in seven warring factions of one man each, and
drank whisky, and sang songs, and cursed curses,
and blasted itself and each other with strange
blasphemies, and it also kicked dogs and tried to
bite its own ear off, and then it _ charged madly
through quadrilles and crashed into everything
that could be crashed into, and at last it fell out
of the premises and left the ball to conduct itself
and the accounts strewn loose on the floor like
leaves drifting before the autumn wind. It was
carried home at last in seven different directions
and feeling very bad on seven different wheat-
bags, and it was put to bed where it slept
fourteen hours in its hat and boots. Next
day, however, the committee stood up once
more, looking very bleared and shaky, but still
occupying an erect position on its hind claws,
and presently it was interviewed by a party of
subscribers with knobby sticks concealed beneath
their coat-tails, who enquired about the balance of
profit in hand. Then the committee felt in all its
pockets, and—great Moses, listen!—it acknow-
ledged with a leer and a hiccough that it could
only account for lls. 9d. “ ’Sure you, ole f’ler,
on’y ’lev’n ni’pence left, ” said the chairman, with
supernatural gaiety. “ Not’n’ther dashed copper,
Shumb’dy shtole resht money. Shumb’dy trod ’n
’counts, too, not ’vailable ’speckshun.” And it
ended there. The committee never offered to pay
up the money it had lost or drunk away ini the
course of its spree, and nobody seemed able to
make it account for the missing balance, so that
the outburst of public cash sympathy produced no
results at all, except that it enabled seven promi-
nent citizens to make beasts of themselves. I [sent
an account of these unholy games to the iocal
paper, but the editor refused to publish it for fear
of giving offence to a one-eyed subscriber whose
strabismussed aunt is related by marriage to the
cousin of a woman with large feet, whose
daughter is engaged to one of the men who got
drunk. Consequently, I feel inclined, like Sam-
son, to slay 1000 asses with the jaw-bone of a
Philistine, and to wander in the wilderness using
strong language for 40 years. — Yours, H..T.M.
• *
A N.Z. boss cockle was recently the victim
of a cruel hoax. He got a letter from, as he
thought, a well-known firm of solicitors in Dune-
din announcing that a large fortune bad been left
him by an uncle in Scotland, who had gone to sing
psalms and cu se “ kisbs o’ whustles” on the
Golden Shore. Being a Scotchman of a large and
generous capacity, the nephew determined to lose
no time in becoming a wholefale philanthropist,
and forthwith proceeded to dispose of his farm,
his stock, implements, and other effects and to
donate bh<- p -oreads to various churches, hospitals,
decayed pAiticians, and other deserving institu-
tions. After he had given away all his means and
left himself as poor as Job, he suddenly discovered
that the letter was a fabrication, and that his
uncle wasn’t dead at all, but very much alive and
newly married to a widow with seven children.
• * *
A storekeeper up Noith lately ran shoxt
of cash. His over-draft at the bank was already
of stately dimensions and not a penny more could
he raise in that direction. He thought of a
neighbouring squatter and negotiated his little
loan. He would require it for only a short time.
His shop was full of stock. It was a mere tem-
porary shortage. If Hon. Blank Woolpress
would call on the day following he would be
happy to show him his stock, which was sure to be
disposed of during the subsequent wool-season.
Would Woolpress call and inspect it ? Woolpress
said he would. Now, the storekeeper’s stock was
miraculously small, so he posted off to another in
the same line as himself. Woolpress, a cash cus-
tomer, was coming to buy largely. Would Smith
send up all he could spare, the unbought residue
to be returned after Woolpress’s visit? Smith,
scenting money in the transaction, said he would.
He denuded his store of a splendid stock and
forwarded it to his wily rival. Woolpress called
as appointed, saw the goodly array of merchan-
dise, and, well-satisfied with his prospective
secutiby, planked down the needful. Smith’s
goods were returned, and the loan-negotiator
shipped to ar. other shore. The loan is still unre-
deemed and likely to remain so.
• * *
A bush-feller, while working in the forest
primeval near Pahiatua (N.Z.), accidently cut off
one of his toes with a stroke of the axe. Having
bandaged up his foot as well as h * could, he made
a crutch for himself, and started limping home.
On the way he was met by two men, who asked
him what was the matter. His reply was brief
and touching. He put his hand in his vest pocket
and produced the amputated toe. “That, gentle-
men, is the matter.” He must have been a per-
fect toeic.
* * •
William M‘Laughlin, of Pakuranga, N.Z.,
has in so strictly material and practical a manner
realised the saccharinity of “Home, Sweet
Home” that when he hears a girl warble “’Mid
plea-heasures and pa-balaces” cuss-words come
from his lips. Two years ago William, aforesaid,
having waxed rich as a lawyer in a libel-suit, de
termined to close up his ranch and visit England,
and this design he put into execution. During
his absence several hives of bees took possession of
a garret in tne farm-house and in the course of 24
months converted the M'Laughlin’s house into a
gigantic apiary. When William returned he
found the interstices between the weather-boards
and the lining a mass of homycomb, while at
every crevice were busy-bees humming. The
grate in the parlour was full of wax, and the en-
trails of the time-payment piano were choked with
honey. As we said before W. M‘Laughlin
thoroughly realises what it is to return to “Home,
Sweet Home.”
• »
A veteran of the Maori wars was recount-
ing the events of the disastrous battle of Nguto-o-
te Manu. He related that the battle took place
in a forest, and that the Maoris, under cover, just
knocked over the colonial forces like ninepins.
“ But, why didn’t you get behind trees?” “ Trees
be blowed,” said the narrator, “there weren’t
enough trees for the officers.’
• . •
Up North the other day there was a con-
cert and one of the items of the programme was
“ Alas, those Chimes ! ” The Mayor, who was
chairman, fumbled the programme, turned the
lamp higher, put on his glasses, and finally an-
nounced that “Thenext, lad iesand ginblemen, is en-
titled ‘ Blast those Chinese !’ by”—but the audience
hoorayed and roared for ten minutes, while his
worship put his elevated beaver on his walking-
stick and twirled it like a top, and when the
cheering subsided complimented the people for
their anti-Mongolian sentiments.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —This jear a hawker
showing a gun at Irida, put in a dummy cartridges
Unfortunately, it wasn’t exactly that, and the
result was that a shearer was shot in the groin.
Dead in three hours. At Cujinnie a man was
drilling another from his bunk. The firelock was
an old piece that had often, been used before for
the same purpose. The fall at the “ order ” teems
to have arranged a catastrophe by sending to the
breech a cartridge which was in the bore, some
distance up the barrel. At the platoon exercise
the driller was shot dead. At this shed last Sun-
day a youth came home, covering the crowd with
his gun, which he carried by the muzzle. There
was then a struggle in the midst of 20 men for the
gun, which had the hammer down on the capped
nipple. No accident occurred, excepting a curse
from yours truly. I could name 50 other cases of
want of knowledge of the use of firearms. Why
don’t parents teach their children here, as in the
old country, that it is criminal to cover human
life (or any other life, excepting when business is
meant) with any firearms, loaded or unloaded?
I’ve talked to bushies till I’m tired of it, and the
wretches have even the cheek to argue about half-
cock with yours, Scotty the Wrinkler.
This is a tale of unmitigated disaster.
’Way down the Lachlan River four boozers were
sprawling over the bar of a bush pub., sadly and
monotonously irrigating themselves with gin. It
was the beginning of winter, and they intended,
if only the money would hold out, to sprawl there
all through the short, cold days and the long,
murky evenings, until the blithesome spring re-
turned to gladden the land. Then, when the
awakened earth was spreading her green carpet
afresh and the laughing-jackass was singing in the
wattle —always presuming that there is a certain
amount of jackass in the wattle —they would
gather up their terrestrial traps and bid a sad fare-
well to the scene of their festivities, and go out into
a dashed and miserable world to toil once
more. But at present this evil day was far
off, and they rejoiced in their fleeting happiness,
and washed not, neither did they spin. They had
just met, and as they drank through the placed
monotony of that first evening they made in
acquaintance which gradually ripened into friend,
ship The drunker they gob the faster it ripeneda
and ultimately they agreed Hat they would put
up a joint fund to be jointly drunk cut during the
winter, and having cleaned cut their pockets they
raised a sum of £9B as the capital of the new ven-
ture. An agreement was then drawn up between
the publican of the one part and the four boozers of
the other, which set forth that the plaintiff was to
systematically booze the four co-respondents at
the rate cf so many drinks a day for a certain
period ; and the document being signed, sealed,
and delivered, the publican put the money in the
cash-box, stood one drink all round, and rose to
make a few appropriate remarks. He observed
that the bloom was nob always on the rye, and—
bub just here his wife came in and fainted in the
middle of the. meeting. It took five minutes to
bring her round again, and when she recovered
she stated in grieved accents that a man had run
away with all the cash. Then the customers
rushed out and mounted Shanks, his pony, and
galloped far and wide in search of the defaulter,
bub he was far, far away. He had been running
while the landlady was fainting, and distance had
swallowed him up. Four men remained unnatu-
rally sober all the winter.
* * *
Snow has not fallen in Sydney since 1836,
and it is on record that Mrs. Lavender, wife of
Lavender, of Lavender Bay, and daughter of old
Jack Blue of Blue’s Point, made a snowball which
she endeavoured to keep as a m< mento of the visit
of the Frost King.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —There are 160 pnhs. be-
tween Redfern and the Circular Quay, which are
only a mile apart, and at each of these there is free
bread-and-cheese and pickled-teef daily. After
this, who would be a sundowner or a whaler ? By
the way, there is not in the whole colony of
N.S.W., a chemical analyst who has the power to
examine liquor and deprive publicans of their
licenses in the event of adulteration. Yet any
poor wretch who purveys cow-juice which isn’t
altogether certified as the milk of bovine kindness
is briskly lumbered before the be»k and made to
account for the presence of sky-blue and chalk
material in the can of his calling. Evidently the
licensing business should be takf nout of the hands
of the ignorant and unuieidiic policeman and
handed over to the Health Department. Trust-
ing the authorities will take the hmb,—Yours, etc ,
Wabrigal Joe.
* • •
In Southern N.S.W. there is an aboriginal
station, located on a run lately sold for three-
quarters of a million sterling. This station con-
sists of about two or three thousand acres reserved
by Government for the education of the blacks, of
whomthereare an average of 30 or 40 adults being
taught their ABC. Yet while tLe conductors of
the Mission pay to the local Chinamen a good deal
of money weekly for vegetables to feed the blacks
on, there is a garden at the Mission covered with
weeds. Our correspondent asks why the blacks
shouldn’t be taught cultivation.


Business Announcements.
<ar TJECEJ OJSTL'Z'
MIHICiL IJSTRIEIIT
Direct Supply Association!
658 George Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
6 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and purchasers _ will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others.
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. 6d. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 355,
~ ~ ~ ~ steel notes 50s.
Organ Concertina, in wood box 21s.
o
The finest show of ACCORDEONS to be seen
n the colonies from 10s. 6d. up to £5 at any
prices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 30s. Od.
Patent Silver „ „ ... 325. 6d.
Patent Steel „ „ ... 355. Od.
. 7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old _ Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and extea set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOB
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
RIM Mil STEMS,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
hilar, Cello, Viola Double Base, Harp,
Zithar, k, k
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5, 6 or 7 „ „ „ £4 10/-.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
special lines, we at once despatch Instrument. In-
struments packed carefully and sent to any part of
the colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMOKSEN, Manager,
658 George Sfreet,
SYDNEY.
Pearls in the Mouth.— White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel,
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists.*
WESTERN AUSTRALIA the coming colony, and
the relation in which it will stand toward Austra-
lasia will evidently be one of great influence. —
E, Favenc
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Possesses Copper, Lead, Tin, Gold, Silver and
Iron Ore in abundance. Her climate is mild and
healthy, her timber—especially the Jarrah —is re-
nowned for its durability and usefulness. Great
railways are being constructed connecting PEKTD,
tlie Capital City, with the interior.
Telegrams respecting the Gold Discoveries ap-
pear almost daily in the newspapers.
The Colony is going right ahead on its prosperous
way. Investors are now offered a rare chance of
securing Blocks of Land almost in Perth, the
Capital City of this coming Colony, for a
“mere song.
The EVELEIGH ESTATE,
Perth, Western Australia,
Only about half-a-mile from the city, fronting a
Government road, excellently situated, good build-
ing land, must return a handsome profit to buyers.
ONLY £lO EACH BLOCK.
£1 deposit; balance 10s. monthly. No interest.
Torren’s Title. Free deeds to purchasers of 5 lots.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets containing valu-
able information posted on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Limited,
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
I
K,
/\CENTS ,
ei
O
S
T
DELISSA& PHILLIPS
3&J Barrack Street.
ELEY
/t
&
o
e
%
sK
<8
'X
&
£
<b
&
o
&
5^
o
o
v
O
&
&
A
<>
&
,
'X
o
C
&
<b
VS
&
V
. V
0
N>
*
o
890 a GEORGE S T -
syzozktes'st.
William’s Australian Insecticide Is death to all lnseots.
Simple in application—sure in effeot. This Is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being oertain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosqurros
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all ohemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-olass Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, ohemist, near King.street.*
Y&
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried."
( Signed) Marie Roze.
THE
V
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not *>lit in the Seams nor
tear in t! fe Fabrio.
Exqi£@ite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Bewdre of worthless imita-
tions./' Every genuine Y & N
Corsetstamped “ Y & N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
Three G-old Medals! I
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
Specialist,
10 Lonsdalid Stbeet East, Mblboubnb.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any colonial stamps}. To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated nnder Companies Aot, 187*.
CAPITAL, £600,009.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
3 months, 5 per oent.
6 >i
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months 1J per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
FOR SALE.—Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
HO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
I I
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAT
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
lot
INDENTS ARK EXECUTED ON THK MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. 7
Tha Bast Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
irmg
FARLEIBH, NETTHEIM and Co..
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sols Agasis loi the abova for New South Wales and Queensland,
wttbt A
Business Announcements.
B
Dandelion Bitters.
We reoommend these BITTERS to be taken bw«
or three times a day j a wlneglaasful for an adnlt.
smaller quantity for ohlldren.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, Is more reliable for remov
ing all Impure secretions than any other mediolnal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will And
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USB.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twioe a day.
THEY PURIFY THK BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yourß faithfully ,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, SO, 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure In recom*
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for It without any
ourative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver oomplalnt to try them.—
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August SI, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness reoelved
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to
medicines of different kinds for affections of
liver, indigestion, pain In the chest, general de
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
"lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflioted as I have
been may take advantage of them,
" I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leiohhardt.
Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney."
MM
%
Bow s Steanes W ns
Is a safe and sure stlmnlant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Row's feteane's Wine.
It oannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonio. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity.
“Having ca efully examined a bottle of Rows
‘Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I consider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly free from any injurious
chemicals, too often used in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M'KILLOP, Analyst.
" Sydney, December 23, 1884."
Row’s Steane's wine
has also weaned many persons from the exoesstvo
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
Instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur
passed.
TRY THRU.
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW'S ASSORTED BITTRRS,
containing
ROW'S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW'S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW'S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW'S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTRRS
ROW'S ASSORTED WINES
Soli Proprietors,
Sdward Row & Company
48, 45, 47 GEORGE BTREET, SYDNEY,


The Savings Bank of New South Wales, Barrack Street, Sydney. [See page 9.]
[AS REMODELLED.]


“FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL."
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George street (opposite Royal
Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited
Mft ftftft given away to buyers of a Bottle of Brbadalbane
IiUjUUU Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ftrguson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
Why be without fish when, by having one of
our Fish-Traps, you can have plenty ? Eastwr yV,
411 George street, Sydney.
THE
'PLUM
Razor.
THE
“PLUM"
Sf
Razor
FOR Private Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor, 10s. 6d..
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
13T Nine Hair cutters always Employed !
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
A LOVELY SKIN,
iannUfo! oomplerion, eoft, smooth and delicste neck, face, heads and ami cam best B>e olstaLst)
ijj discarding all leaden and greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, hot beta* aJtowhfl ftr
jjHMtoomth* skim cannot possibly have any good effect on it, and by using
ftowlancta*
K&lydor
¥* d re,reshln f u preparation for the face, hands and arms of all
»od dust of summer or the cold and damp of winter; it eradicates freckles,
wn, sunburn, stings, redness and roughness of the skin caused by cold winds or the use of hard
water, removes pimples, spots, discolorations: chilblains, eczema, etc., relieves inflammation
{burns, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully smooth and
Sleasant. Gentlemen after shaving will find it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin -
» Is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, can be used with impunity on ths
akin of the most delicate lady or child,
olie at 2s 3d lUM * 800 per * bottle® off half the uano*
ROWLANDS MACASSAR OIL promote* the growth of the Wr, anil
Is also sold hi a golden colour for fair-haired peopleo
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevent* decay, mn& stye* t
pleasing fragranoe to the breath. Ask anywhere for HOWLANDS' article*, of 90, Hattcai
harden, London, and avoid cheap, worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bbg?., and E Pbosbsb A 00., Sydney.
N
RVOU S D E
A FREE MEDICAL BOOK.
I L I T Y.
mm HB P? RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specially In Nervone Disease.,
SSLS! I Nkvoot *»
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
167 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WABIB.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison
Ooora open 7 Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Ib.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
riRAND CRYSTAL PALACE
\JT SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band every afternoon
and evening; conductor, Mr. Geo. Vassie.
EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING GRAND SPECIAL
NIGHT,
LADIES, Is.; GENTLEMEN, 2s.
\LFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
Alhambra music hall,
George Street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Grand Sacred and Classical concert
every
SUNDAY NIGHT at 7.30.,
when will be rendered a choice and select Pro-
gramme, under the conductorship of
Mr. CHAS. AUSTIN.
SEE DAILY PAPERS OF SATURDAY.
Royal standard theatre,
Sub-Lessees...Messrs. Gerald and Duff.
Third Week and Continued Success of Miss
ALICE NORTON ard Mr. H. C. SIDNEY,
in the Latest Thrilling Novelty,
MASTER AND MAN,
or the
GREAT COAL STRIKE.
Standard Prices—3s., 25., Is.
ONDI AQUARIUM.
The moßt popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Pioprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
LAST 2 NIGHTS
LAST 2 NIGHTS
of
George Ralph Walker's
HIGHLY SUCCESSFUL ROMANTIC PLAY,
A TOUCH OF THE SUN
A TOUCH OF THE SUN
A TOUCH OF THE SUN.
ADMISSION—Ss., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
DR- RUMNEY
presents his compliments to
HIS AUSTRALIAN COUSINS,
and begs to say he will be happy to welcome them
again this season on board
THE “WONDER” COACH,
which last season carried safely 1934 Passengers,
and since October, 1880, has covered 63,785 Miles.
The trip to ST. ALBANS is a perfect “ sensa-
tion,” and the lunch there is a “ blessed reality,”
fully appreciated by those who have a “ Wonder ”
Coach appetite. The Cathedral is one of the finest
and oldest in the world.
Ask at the C ach Office, HATCHETT’S
HOTEL, Piccadilly, for ai! ta»t : culars.
Amusements,
h.
Theatre r o y a
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and MusgroYe*
Leasee. Mr. S. Lazar j Treasurer, Mr. Goodman,
IMMENSE SUCCESS OF
CARRIE SWAIN,
in her Great Success,
THE TOMBOY.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s,
Ashfield recreation grounds
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnioß, &c.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULT.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS
of
OUR BLONDINETTES.
AL. W. FILSON and MISS LEE ERROL
in their Humorous Sketch, entitled
SQUABBLES, or WOMEN VERSUS MEN.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orohestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Baloony, fid.
JJOTANY! BOTANY! BOTANY!
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 8.80.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert ot
Well-known Artists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH Director.
Business Announcements.
JOHN BUCKHAM,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon
Covers (Greased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
Coolers, Whin Buckets all sizes, at lowest prices.
Note the Address.
Oldest established house in the trade.
j~ oft nsr buckham,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. The
Caulfield Cup, run 25th October, 1888. G,00()
Subscribers of 10s fach First Horse, £1,000;
Secrnd, £500; Third, £250; Starters, £250; Non-
Staiters, £250 (to be divided amongst
them) 100 Cash Prizes of £5 each ; 100 Cash
Prizes of £2 10s. each. The Melbourne Cup,
Run November 6, 1888. 10,000 subscribers at 20s*
each. First horse, £4000; Second, £2000; Third{
£lOOO ; Starters, £7OO ; Non-Starters, £BOO (to be
divided amongst them); 25 Cash Awards of £2O
each; 25 Cash Awards of £lO each; 100 Cash
Awards of £7 10s. each. In this event there are
four separate drawings—lst, the horse, then each
of the money prizes, which reduces the odds of a
prize to about ten to one. Also, one of the Mel
bourne Cup, 10,000 subscribers of 10s. each, with
the same number of prizes as in the above event,
of just half the value. Subscribers are particularly
requested to adhere strictly to the address at foot,
and register all letters, and apply early, so thai
the fortunate drawers of horses may have time to
hedge. Enclose two stamped addressed envelopes,
for reply and result. Address “ Australia,” care
of Mr. Hugh Dalveen, Victoria Cafe Hotel, near
Gi-npral Post Office, Gcorge-Ht., Sydney, N.S.W.
Zola's Novels.
PROSECUTION OF A PUBLISHER.
The telegiaphic tews lately to hand recalls to u
what must have bsen one of the sensations cf ou
old grandfathers’ times. Such a well-known anc
respected London pub 1 it her as Vizitelly has been
we learn, committed for trial on “a charge o:
)puWishing indecent books.”
Mr. Hetry Vizitelly seems to have had som
inkling of what was coming. In March last h
issued from his well-known publisl iDg house
Henrietta-street, Covent < taiden, something whic
reads very like Cardinal Newman’s “Apologia pr
Vita Sua.” In this of ViziteLy’s the pamphlet i
headed “My Li f e and Publications.”
Y r izitelly began his connection with literatur
by assisting Ingram to s‘art the Illustßatei
London News The latter bad been, as a news
agent at Nottingham, struck with the large sale
which favoured any number of the weekly pres
that happened to have an illustration to it. Sue!
was accorded in the case of distinguished mur
derers, and those papers having a wocd-cut o
Greenacre fetched fancy prices. Vizitelly endea
voured to elevate Ingram’s ideas, and aided to
make the proposed illustrated paper something
more than of that Police Gazette character
which Ingram had mostly in mind when starting
his venture.
Vizitelly’s next effort was an illustrated paper
of his own called the Pictorial Times, which was
produced by Andrew Spottiswoode as printer. He
went in strongly for high-class literature, and most
of the good names cf the day in that line appear
in his list of contributors. In his notice of this
feature he is careful to correct a popular error as
to Hood’s world-known poem of ‘ 1 The Bridge o
Sighs ” Nine people out of ten imagine it to have
first appeared in the pages of Punch, and not, as
it did, in those of the Pictorial Times.
On the abolition of the stamp-duty upon news
papers, Vizitelly produced the Illustratei
Times, but neither that journal nor the PicTOßiAr
Times seems to have been sufficiently soon
financial success to satisfy the publisher. He
found, as most newspaper proprietors find, that it
takes a seemingly dreadfully-long time to get a
paper fairly on its legs and then to push it forward
to paying point.
He next tried his hand as a book-publisher—
producing the first British edition of “ Uncle
Tom’s Cabin.” This was issued at half-a-crown,
but the sale was a mere nothing at that price. Ii
began to bocm when the book was issued at a
shilling, and then there was shortly no holding it,
nor a copy c f it, so great was the public demand.
This first book-venture was followed up by Vizi-
telly introducing to the British reader the first
cheap English edition of the tales of Edgar A.
Poe. These appeared in the first volume of a
series entitled “Readable Books.”
Vizitelly now dropped his independent publish-
ing efforts, and left London to become, for 15
years, the resident Paiisian representative of his
first love—the Illustrated London News. It
was during this period that he acquired his inti-
mate knowledge of French literature, his ac-
quaintance with French authors, and, what was
of more practical value, a knowledge of where and
how to find the best translators and what price
the state of the market would justify for work
done in translation.
Now began his second appearance as a London
publisher in the issue of his series of “ Popular
French Novels.” In this venture Vizitelly aimed
at reproducing only the higher class of French
novelists such as Merimee, Daudet, About, and
Cherbuliez. He found as much loss in so doing as
he did in h's half crown edition of “ Uncle Tom’s
Cabin.” With that he descended to a lower price
to find success, but with the French novelists he
sought ib in a lower class of writers. Sad to say
he stooped to conquer—in a financial sense.
He began with Gaboriau and Du Boisgobey,
and in the course of a year, he tells us, sold some
hundreds of thousands of volumes. Our readers
will remember the scarlet covers of the little
duodecimoes in which form this series appeared on
the railway bookstalls. He found Gaboriau’s
“ Monsieur Ltccq ” to be the best selling of that
author’s works. Of this book we learn the sur-
prising news that the publisher received single
orders for 5000 volumes from several large buyers
The sale soon reached to a million copies. Mr.
Vizitelly claims and seemingly with good reason,
to have made these two French authors first
known to the British reading public—the sales of
their books keeping up to an average of 200,000
annually.
But Mr. Vizitelly had now to experience the
troubles and temptations which wait upon success.
“ Facilis Descensus Averni ” received now another
—and a strong illustration —at his hands. From
Gaboriau and Boisgobey he now stepped down to
Zola, and was the first London publisher to issue
an unabridged translation of “ Nana,” merely, as
he expresses it, “ throwing a slight veil over
those passages to which particular exception was
likely to be taken.” The success of this work, he
tells us, induced him to reproduce the whole of
Zola’s writings in an English dress, “ and to pur-
chase the English copyrights of all his future
ones.” For “La Terre,” the nastiest of the series,
he paid the highest price, but not with the success
he expected in recoupment of cost. He fiuds
“ Nana” to stand first in that consideration —the
primary one, it appears, with him. He reckons it
a bad week, he says, when the sale of Zola trans-
lations falls below a thousand volumes.
After Zola, Gaboriau, and Boisgobey, the most
saleable French books were found to be those
of Ohnet, chief among which ranks his
“Ironmaster.” The saD of that book was, how-
ever, eclipsed by the popularity suddenly achieved
by Daudet's “ Sappho,” of which Vizitelly is
careful to tell us that his home published “ the
only unmutilated edition, and selling nearly
200,000 copies of it in shilling form. When a
French writer’s works become known in England
the sale of th°m becomes payable, but Mr.
Vizitelly informs us that be finds ib wearisomely
long work to persevere with fome French writers
of a higher class than those which have brought
such grist to his mill.
Of the “translation trade,” as he calls it, we
learn some interesting particulars. Although
translators effer themselves in hundreds he has
found, he says, not more than five out of every
hundred at all competent. The competition for
this class of literary work is more especially found
among womankind—“ladies of rank and title
freely joining in it.” So great is the supply of
such labour and so free the offer of it that for
translating a French novel “ £2O and even less ” is
the commonly-paid price.
The telegraphic news does not extend to the
information of what particular author and what
book it is which has landed Mr. Vizitelly in the
criminal court —but it is probably Zola’s “La
Terre.” It recalls the times of Horne Tooke
and Hone to find him in such a position,
and only serves to illustrate that old fasl ions will
revive and that the prosecution of publishers is one
of the things which have been only sleeping bub
which are not dead.
The re publication of many popular authors has
been Undertaken in Melbourne. In that way we
have had many cheap editions given to us of books
of world-wide fame. Those, however, of which
Vizitelly has made such a speciality have not b en
cf the number The line api ears to have been
drawn by Melbourne publishers at Ouida’s
writings, which is probably going as far in the
French novel direction as it is well to do-.
Lieutenant Ackers denier that a member
of the Townsville Naval Brigad ■ hte’y fLgg d a
prisoner in the bcal gaol The lieu eaant’s denial
is given with a warm'll which indicates that his
views on such questions are at d reeb issue with
those of the newapape s that gave the rumuir as
true and approved of the brigadier’s gory work.
In Brisbane Supreme Court tie o hir day,
an impressive young man who was charged with
burglary asked Heaven to strike him dead right
off if he were guilty. The jury were staggered,
and for a time could only sit and glare. They
gave Providence 10 minutes in which to heave the
cold potato of doom at the offender, bub as nothing
happened their hair gradually reassumed the
horizontal and they brought in a verdict cf
“ guilty.” Then the judge took it out of that
young man.
The publishers cf the Bwzza.ro, a new
Victorian venture in the stony pa'hi of journalism,
mention in their opsnirg issue that theyde n’bstand
subscribers a drink, the uibscriptioa being strictly
dry and even parched. They also state that the
Blizzard will b 3 truthful when it doesn't; cost too
much, and that its politics, if it has anv, will be
always amenable to the softening iaflrenca of
Government advertising. Further, the pro-
prietors desire that subscriptions shall be paid in
advance, but when they can’t get them that way
they will be glad to take them any way at all.
Candour like this is a beautiful thing.
D. ar Bulletin, —They have at last got
a kind of humourist cn the S M. Herald apart
from “ Tom and Jerry ” at d the “As you like it ”
men The special correspondent who accompanied
Lord CariDgton to the West says it \*a a plucky
thing on the Baron’s part t a ride from Bottrki t >
W i'cannia. If he had only gone over the ground
with bad boots on his feet, a 501 b. swagonbis back,
his pockets empty, his tea-and sugar bag the same,
with no more nutriment on hand than the reputa-
tion pannikin of dust and an >cca c ional sc ap fioin
the cook every twenty md s—if ha bad had to
walk under a January stu’, with no greater hope
than the off-chance of a job at the other md and
no £7OOO a year hanging to it i ither, what words
would the Herald find w th wh u-h to pourtray
his “pluck?” Yet I’ve done it all and I’m only
a Despised Sundowner.
Dear Bulletin, — It seems to me to bo
easy enough to settle this siiike business, and I
am going to make a proposal. The miners and
capitalists stand in the position of partners in a
firm. The capitalist puts his money and the
miner puts his life into the business, so let us
say that the risk to both ii equal Now, all that
remains to be done is to find out the value of a
miner’s life in cash, and then we shall know bow
large a share each has in the business, and the
profits can be divided accordingly In case there
should be any difficulty in arriving at a settlement
in this way I shall submit another propo<al,
which, I am sure, will meet with the approbation
of the majority In this country every man has a
vote. Therefore one man is a 3 good as another.
Then let there be a bill drawn up and submitted
to the whole of the parties concerned, miners
and capitalists, and let it be decided by the
majority the same as everything else Of course
the minority will say they are being tyrannised
over, but then the minority always do say so and
I don’t see how we are to alter it unless we turn
the whole British Constitution over on its head
and have elections, &c., carried by the minority.
We should then have to decide whether we would
have Protection or Freetrade by seeing which
party could stay away from the ballot-box best.
Parkes would then be safe bectuse, judging by the
Redfern election, as rtlated by the only Puls'ord,
the Freetrade party are the bast hands on record
at staymg away frem an election.—Yours,
Cockney.
The latest enterprising Yankee wants to
hire the bones of Columbus and take them round
on exhibition. Hecffered 20,000 dollars for the
temporary use of the remains, but the Govern-
ment of San Domingo rejected the money with
the derision which characterises a race that
doesn’t understand the use of coin. This is rough
on the American nation Even the mongrel
Haytian—one-fifth Spaniard, four fifths negro—is
ahead of the sons of Washington in nobility of
sentiment and refinement of soul; amid his
poverty and ignorance he still remembers that he
is distantly related to Cervantes, and the memory
keeps him from selling his patriotism and his
poetic dreams for dollars and cents. No doubt he
is wanting in many of the outward evidences of
civilisation; he is deficient in underground
drainage, syndicates, Orangeism, railways, dog-
taxes, land-swindles, and other visible symbols of
Christianity ; he lacks the cheerful blasphemy of
more cultured races ; he doesn’t know how to raise
the wind by selling shares that don’t exist to men
that are dead, for delivery at a date when he
knows he will be insolvent, and probably in gaol;
and he has not learned how to live in comparative
affluence by being a frowsy loafer against a lamp-
post and doing nothing outside a sporting public-
house ; but still he possesses a certain measure of
self respect, and even at a time when the Govern-
ment of the Republic can hardly raise another
pair of socks, he disdains to realise upon the bones
of the Genoese admiral who discovered him 400
years ago. America looks down on the effeminate
Haytian as he basks on the shores of his sunlit isle
or languidly urges the slow-moving sugar-cane to
maturity, and fills in the rest of his spare time by
getting up revolutions, but there is a remnant of
old Castilian fire in the mongrel islander which
makes it impossible for him to turn his dead hero
into dollars an 1 r * t <


on THE
MB
\
■mu
i
I
WILE v> ROA9
'^'Tr toAamvßNbtia' hk ascot va lB
#SHOWm I STATION
ISh ROUMOVAS, \
$F LEMSKCTQN E W M A R K ET
Vy3ACECO:iRSE\V' o %& STATION
1
melbour*e\
y& post
\\OFFICE
CjqjvTTS,
n * v
HP
yj
Locality Sketch
SHEWING
IARIBYRNONG PARK >
A-'k MILES FROM MELBOURNE P.ft
SATURDAY, OfTOSiR C
ON THE GROUND.
MARIBYRNONG PARK, ASCOT VALE,
Four Miles from Melbourne Post Office,
The Late Residence of C. B. FISHER, Esq.
it seems almost incredible that within such a short distance of the Melbourne Post Office that an Estate comprising the
Fairest Beauty Spot in the Colony should now be offered to the public in Building aud Business Allotments.
Some 30 years ago Mr. C. B. Fisher, whose name is a household one in racing and squatting circles, having the whole
colony to choose from, selected, as the fairest and nmst picturesque spot, the place which is now know as
vi A RIB YRNONG PAR K.
Over £40,000 has been spent in planting
groves and avenues of oaks, pines, birches,
firs, and other valuable trees, while the
orchards contain the choicest trees, and all
the estate is sown with the best English
grasses, making delightful and luxuriant
pastures, the' whole sloping downward to
the fine river, nearly 100 yards wide and
25 feet deep.
The extent and value of the work has not
been seen by the General Public, as notice
boards intimating that ‘ ‘ Trespassers will be
Prosecuted ” were placed all round the
grounds.
These notice boards are now being re-
moved, and the present owners and vendors,
Hon. THOMAS BENT, Esq., M.L.A.
F. E. SELMAN, Esq.
GUSTAV LACHAL, Esq., J.P.
Cordially invite the public of Melbourne to
visit the Estate and judge for themselves.
It is impossible for any pen to do justice
to its varied beauties, and those who visit it
say that the eye alone is capable cf convey-
ing to the mind the exquisite pleasure of the
scenes. From the Maribyrnong Bridge you
have a good view of the Estate, the river
winding round the whole course for a dis-
tance of 5 miles, on which a fast passenger
steamer is now running. Allotments of
from 400 to 600 feet deep will be given, and
for Mansion Sites nothing like them in Mel-
bourne has ever yet been offered ; while the
Business Frontages to Maribyrnong Road
will afford Investors and Speculators a
chance that is seldom offered.
Last Saturday’s Sale at Bloomfield’s
Paddock will give the public an idea of how
Business Sites are sought after in the
District : this Estate being close to Maribyr-
nong Park, while the Aberfeldie Estate is on
the other side of the river, possessing only
a portion of the many advantages of Mari-
byrnong Park.
tlis Van Vean is Laid on All Over the Estate,
AND THE
ASCOT YALE RAILWAY STATION
is exactly 1 mile along the Main Maribry-
nong Road from the Estate,
AND THE
PROPOSED ELECTRIC TRAM
runs through the land.
The Vendors have not followed the usual
practice of speculators, by re-syndicating
their land, but have decided to offer this
Magnificent Estate in allotments to the
public, and simply ask them to attend the
sale and judge for themselves.
At the present day every vendor with a
few acres of a subdivision styles it a Park,
and with enticing advertisements makes it
look pretty on paper.
The Auctioneers engaged to sell this pro-
perty are at a loss to do justice-in an adver-
tisement to its very many advantages, but
simply join with the Vendors in asking the
public to visit the place,
Attend the Sale and Judge for Themselves,
Cabs will leave the Ascot Vale station for
the Estate every day, and anyone wanting
either a
Business Allotment
or a
Suburban Residence Site
having a never failing supply of water, good
drainage, pure air, picturesque view, and close
to the city, should attend the sale on the
6th OCTOBER
Auctioneers: BAYLEE, SHEVfILL, and Co., in conjunction with J. SH4TTOCX and J. J. RENDLE.
Solicitors: Messrs. Madden and ButSer. Surveyors: Messrs. Teiry and Oakden.
Plans and Free Railway Passes in Preparation. Title, Certificate.
TSKMS LIBERAL.
Residents of Ballarat, Sandhurst, Gee-
long and other country districts requiring
plans and wishing to secure a few blocks,
can arrange for same through the auc-
tioneers.
Every business man that wants a first-
class business site should attend this sale.
Every doctor who wishes to secure a site
for a sanatorium should attend this sale.
_ Every gentleman that wants a mansion
site 000 ft. deep to a magnificent right-of-
way shm Id attend this sale.
Every builder that wishes sites unequalled
4 miles from the Melbourne Post Office
should attend this sale..
Every warehouseman, merchant and city
man should attend this sale and secure land
in a locality that will add 10 years on to their
lives.
Every sensible man and woman that wants
a block of land in the prettiest spot of Mel-
bourne should attend this sale.
Every solicitor and banker wanting a site
better than Pott’s Point, of Sydney, with
lovely views and river frontages, should at-
tend this sale.
Every resident of Melbourne should make a
note of the 6th October, and make it a
m LElfffi BAY FOR HIMUS,
And the Sale of
MARIBYRJSONGr PARK.
SECURE YOUR PLANS AND
PASSES EARLY.
Free passes will be issued every day from
the auctioneers’ offices, 16 Collins Street
west, to those desirious of visiting and in-
specting the land.
Remember that Mr. C. B. Fisher
Has Spent Over £40,000 in Laying Out
MARIBYRNONG PARK
Any person visiting Maribyrnong Park,
and not being satisfied and pleased, must
never dream of being pleased in Paradise.


Business Announcements.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
Pitt Street.
BRUNTO IPg
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUE
flftH be obtained throughout New South Walsi
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ... ...
BRISBANE... ...
MELBOURNE ...
... 84 Pitt Stmw.
...Edward Sritaaf,
SpSNnes
Medical.
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured !
The Greatest Success) ™ / All Chronic Disease
of Modern Times, f \ are Curable,
Mr, E, E, SIMM, Consulting Eclectic
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
60 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelinann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself,
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more
[COP?.]
Glenhope, 19th July, 1886.
To H. E Kucelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank E E. Knight,
Of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July'
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe odd, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. 1
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly" consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’'medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that 1 was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when y ou told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse ; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces ol
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope,
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
A2T All Consultations Free.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
not .being Effected.
i sovmi&s mm
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Doloreux, Achins Fains In the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when s tst
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAMS RHEUMATIC PILLS
Will give Instant Relief and Cara In a few days t
The Australian Remedy. No change in dir
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 65., and IBs.
CURB FOB BLIGHT,
ROSE'S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Bast and Safest Rsmedy far Baf
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Bandi
Blight, but strengthens the s g i. Numerous tat
blmonlals from those whs Lava pacts verad throng
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medio*
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
fl, L in, Pharmaceutical Gtalii
581 Ur sor u ©**«r,v&sc. only.
XXTANTED, Files of The Bulletin, for the
V f last nine years. Publisher-, Bulletin
office. .
t
+
OTBL,
CORNER OP
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BBIS BANE.
The Gulin iiy xLiTaiigemcjiita cue unUer clto
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
M*
tf wmm
U
s
fr
nsjsstti
vi
cosmov
■•S' *■..:■
e-o
sc
PS
If]
5S
••iSiiwtSrsfiSt,./ i■
awn
Jl
asnsiH
■
mm
'
Ladies' Drawing-Rooms. Reading am
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel)
Proprietress.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Sflanlw.
srsra J32RZGKa , xro2sr of jar-S-w.
4 * tsia CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquats, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., art
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rsdkweJW
inner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country
are also you can have good company, good wines—in faot, everything that can possibly make one
amfortablo can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Pionlo Parties provided. Tabh
* Li&tt at 1 o’olock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstkb to make he?
Isltora comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony,
SBr«. MJSJBBSTER, Clarsadm Hotel,
Ovvnaivsr OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
& C 0.,
A. MARSHALL
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Gasfittees, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Medieval Metal Workers
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
verity s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
iron or Brass, Ships Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BOJf ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
IF er driau «£& C*o® ?
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY,
lubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any Btze. Robber goods for all purposes,
Lists and Samples an AppHcatlon.
'f'V;.
I (92
In nnsequtna of Maticm . tf
S.4UCE itohkh an eaictdaie& 'bdeeelm'theand fimfg
haw ta request that
fcm tfefr ' thresh
*nm # &«* </ /& wscezrsmmm
SAI/CJS is gittutHf*
Ati fat ISA mi PRSltiy*? sm» t and m frame on £aMJ&j^r'iasB
SUf £T'x±. wui for Export ty the ? Proprietsn, Wfausicr? €rau*?ms*6
tUatHeeU, London, i and by Gt octu and Oilmen thrvxghaui the Whfti L _
*&*&&*& £ ISS oktS'ittw^'S^C
HECBEATBO^! INSTRUCTION JIfiUSEBtfIENT!
1,115 LATEST; AND MOST FASCINATING RECREATION IS ■=§»>£
PHOTOG-KAPSTI
PLEASURE and PROFIT!
% ato&m £ WMOP)k "■*%■' Xrstomk
-
%
Its
JO
I
m
wsr*
*ll
R
.?wgr
ft.
r*
a
PLEASURE and PROFIT!
L <xrgest Stock at Lowest Prices fox the, Amateur and Professional Photographer
INSTRUCTIONS FREE.
Commodious DARK ROOM and SKILFUL ATTEVDANTS at the' Service of our Petrous
Call aiul set- us or s«‘«d lor our Catalogues.
TJOHTNEio & CO,
PHOTOGRAPHIC - STOCK - WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, and
9 HAYES* BUILDIXGS, ELIZABETH ST., BKIBBANB
Assurance Companies.
rHB AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE
MKNT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, IT Via.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital
ald-np and Subscribed
fll, 000,000
£Bl,OOO
Ur EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
ates of interest
"'or 8 years _ 7 per oent. I For 1 year 8 per oent.
r or 6 months i per oent. | For 8 months— 8 per oent
DEBENTURE BONDS, nnder the corporate seal
t the Company, payable to bearer or registered
older, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
layable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
fIRST charge on Its entire real and personal
property, Including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed »erms and
loans repayable by instalments. ,
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
H*ad Off ioi— lo, & 12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. O. NEILD, Manager.
Australian mutual provident
SOCIETY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
Established 1849.
Head Office —87, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors s
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq., M.P., Chairman
J “waikek;^- Dep "‘ , ch * i, “'"
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Baq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Chief Medical Officer:
JAS. O. COX, M.D.
Actuary:
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary:
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
This Society is the only
which declares a BONUS
Australian Life Office
EVERY YEAR.
The PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF PROFIT
are—the high rate of interest obtained on the ac-
cumulated funds; the small percentage that the
expenses of management bear to the annual in-
come ; and the extremely favourable rate of mor-
tality which continues to be experienced.
MEMBERS MAY BORROW on their Policies
do the extent of 90 per cent, of the Surrender
value.
Policies are not forfeited so long as the Sur-
render Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
BONUSES VEST after Policies have been two
f ull years in force.
ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
Australian Mercantile Loan & Guarantee
COMPANY, Limited.
Capital
£500,000.
Sydney Offices: Corner of Market 1 York Streets,
Accident, Insurance and Guarantee Department.
General Accidents, Employers' Liability,
Fidelity Guarantee Policies
Issued on the most Favourable Terms.
Proposal Forms and Tables of Rates upoa
application.
rtoBT. B. Wallace - Accident Superintendent.
The Company also, in its Banking and Commercial
D 'partments, make Immediate Advances upon Deeds of
L ind and all classes of Commercial Securities.
DEPOSITS received at 12 months, 7 per cent. ; six
m >nths, 6 per eent.; and three months, 5 per cent., and
b nus at maturity.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL,
General Manager.
Business Announcements.
Of SYDNEY,
TENOLAN OAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&c», &c«,
IS SSOESE ST„ bst« Hunter-st, and B.P.Q.
TATTERSALL’S
re open upon all the Principal Racing. Events
hioughout the Year. For full pa’ticulars see
Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
• Evening News.” Address, “ Tattersall’s,” care
f George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
ons making applications for Tickets are requested
J register their letters to en3ure safe delivery,
Do enclose two addressed stamped envelopes one
or reply and the other for result of drawing. ’
LI OR SALE.-Two grand Water Frontages,
«- 1 arrarrmtta and Lane Cove Rivers Annlv
BULLETIN Office '


OF THE
#
Land Company, Limited.
TO BE REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES STATUTE, 1864.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000,
In 200,000 Shares of £5 each.
The first issue, now offered to the public, is 100,000 Shares, of which 50,000 will be taken, paid up to £3 per Share, by the
Vendors of the properties to be purchased by the Company, in part payment of the purchase-money, leaving 50,000 to be sub-
scribed for by the public in the following manner
2s. 6d. per Share on Application, ss. per Share on Allotment, and
2s. 6d. per Share Monthly until £3 per Share is Paid up.
It is not anticipated that any further Calls will be required, but should any be made they will not exceed 2s. 6d. per Share, or
be at intervals of less than TWO MONTHS.
No Preferential or Promoters’ Shares
“WILL
All Shares will be allotted according to priority of application, the earlier applications receiving the fullest allotment.
Over 20,000 of the Shares offered to the Public having now 1 een placed, Investors are informed that the SHARE LIST
Will ABSOLUTELY CLOSE on SATURDAY, 6th OCTOBER,
after which date the Company will be Registered, and Shares then applied for will only be issued at a premium of 2?. 6d. each.
TEMPORARY OFJOCE OF THE COMPANY :
Premier Buildings
9
ins Street East,


Coburg & Campbell field Land Co.,
LIMITED,
TO RE REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES STATUTE, 1864.
Capital - £ 1,000,000, in 200,000 Shares of £5 Each.
Provisional Directors i
Hon. JOHN NIMMO, M.P., J.P.
Hod. JOHN L DOW, M.P,
THOMAS HUNT, Esq., M.P.
JOSEPH BOSISTO, Esq., M.P., C.M.G,
JAMES WARNOCK, Esq., J.P. (Warnoek Bros., Maklon).
JOHN ROSS, E q. Ec nomic Bedding Society, Collins Street.
JOHN KERR, Esq., Glenroy.
JOHN ROBERTSON, E q. (Haigh Bros., Collin’s Street).
J. E. GOURLAY, Esq-., Hawthorn.
E. LINSEY EEINT, Esq. Hawthorn and Melbourne.
J. M. HIGHETT, Esq., M.P.
Bankers:
CITY OF MELBOURNE BANK. ,
Solicitors:
Messrs. STRONGMAN & CRAWFORD.
Surveyors:
Messrs. BRUFORD & BRAIM.
Brokers:
Messrs. WILDER & GRIFFITHS, Collins Slreet.
AUSTRALIAN & BRITISH LAND DEPOSIT & AGENCY COMPANY, Salisbury Buildings
CITY AGENTS (tfELKOITRNE) :
Messrs. FRASER & CO. (Limited), Auctioneers, &c., Queen Street.
SUBURB IN AGENTS:
HAWTHORN ...
ESSENDON & DISTRICT
DONCASTER ...
WILLIAMSTOWN
BRUNSWICK ...
RICHMOND
„ F. L. FLINT.
Messrs. BUZZARD & CO.
Mr T. E. HOPE.
~ J. MORGAN} Nelson Place.
„ JOHN FERGUSON, Sydney Read.
„ JAMES STEWART, Bridge Road.
SOUTH MELBOURNE 1
ELSTERNWICK & CAULFIELD /
Messrs. LILLIE & DAVIES.
COUNTRY AGENTS :
GEELONG
WANGAKATTA...
BEECHWORTH ...
BALLARAT
SHEPPARTON ...
SALE , 0 ,
Mr. JAMES BENDY.
„ J. CADDICK
Messrs. A. PORRIT & CO.
„ LAMBERT & WALKER.
„ S. M‘DONALD & WALKER
„ LITTLE & BORTHWICK.
EUROA
WARRNAMBOOL
ECHUCA
MAFFRA
SLEE, OGIEBY & CO.
JAS. BOSTOCK & CO.
SHACKELL, WHITE & CO..
(Limited).
A. M‘LEAN & CO.
Secretary pro tem.:
JAMES H. MIRAMS, Esq., 54 Collins Street East, MELBOURNE.
This Company is being formed for the purpose
Of purchasing and re-sdling certain properties at
Coburg, Campbellfield and Somerton, near Mel
bourne, containing 4133 acres (more or less), and
thereby ensuring for the shareholders the oppor-
tunity of participating in the certain advance which
will inevitably be made in the value of these pro-
perties when the railway now being constructed
from Coburg to Somerton is complete, and the
consequent settlement in the neighbourhood is
obtained.
It is impossible to overstate the advantages
Which these properties possess for the purpose of
suburban residences. The land is all high table-
land, from nearly every part of which magnificent
views of the City of Melbourne, with the bay and
its surroundings, can be obtained. The facilities
for communication with, the city are complete,
no less than six Railway Stations being eithtr in
existence or about to be constructed on or n< ar the
land. The new line to Somerton luas right through
the properties, while the extension of the Coburg
Tramway, for which a Company has formed,
will add to the convenience for travel of the whde
of the residents on these estates.
These properties will be purchased at various
prices, the average cost of the whole being a frac-
tion over £202 per acre. Bearing in mind the rates
at which land has been selling in the locality for
mcntbs pact, this price is highly satisfactory to
the shareholders, and the vendors show their con-
fidence in the investment by their offer to still
retain an interest in the estates to the extent of a
quarter of a million sterling.
There is a valuable deposit of clay in one part of
the land, which is now being carted to Brunswick
for use in the potteries, and a very valuable
granite formation in another, which, if developed,
wi 1 ensure large profits to the shareholders.
There are three miles or more of frontage to the
Sydney-road, which, as settlement goes on, will
become as valuable for business purposes as are now
the frontages to the same road in the towns of
Cob rg and Brunswick.
No one who has taken note of the passing events
of the day but must have come to the conclusion
that those persons have been most easily and cer-
t linly enriched who have invested their money in
freehold land in the city and suburbs of Melbourne.
They must further have observed that the largest
and most rapid profi ,s have been made in those
localities through or to which new suburban lines
of railways or tramways have been or are being
constructed.
This investment is especially adapted for the
convenience and advantage of Pebsons Residue
in the Country, and who are unable, except in
the way which this Company offers, to secure a
share in the large profits which the townspeople
are realising through the great increase in the
value of town and suburban land, which increase
the extended settlement in the country districts
helps to produce.
The Residents ■in the City, Suburbs, and
Country Towns will find it equally to their ad-
vantage to become shareholders in this Company,
the terms of payment upon the shares having been
purposely so arranged as to bring them within the
reach of every thrifty person in the community.
A deposit in the Savings Bank will earn its care-
ful owner 4 per cent, per 'annum, while investors
in land, through the medium of Land Companies,
have been making for years past profits ranging
from 20 to 100 per cent. To all persons, therefore,
whose means are not sufficient to enable them to
make an investment in land upon their own indi-
vidual responsibility, this Company offers the
opportunity for making such an investment, to
any extent they choose, in partnership with their
fellow-shareholders.
The railway now being constructed through
these properties will, the department anticipates,
be opened for traffic by the end of this year, when
an immediate and large increase in their value may
certainly be reckoned upon.
It is now universally admitted that land is the
safest and surest investment; but in addition to
all the reasons which support this opinion as
regards land generally, there is one distinctive
reason for holding that opinion in respect to these
properties in particular. It is this :—Everyone is
aware that land on the south of Melbourne has
gone up in value much faster and much higher
than land at corresponding distances north of the
city, almost entirely for the reason that 1 ail way
facilities have been lavished on the one district
and denied to the other. This unequal treatment
will not be suffered much longer, and immediately
public opinion in the northern suburbs enforces its
just claim to equal at'ention, the Direct Line ok
Railway to the Flinders-street Station will
Bfc Made, with the result that these properties will
be doubled in value thereby Let it be borne in
mind, too, that thii increase in value will be inde
pendent of and in addition to the certain and
gradual increase which goes on daily through the
growth of the city and its population.
Applications for Shares can be made direct to
the Secretary, James H. Mirams, Esq, at the
Office of the Company, 54 Collins street East, or to
either of the Brokers or Agents in Town Of
Country,


Hotel*.
fcWBEW. HOTEL, SONUSM,MAN.
I®***-CLABS accommodation fen Mmmerelal
£. WUomtP and others. Private sitting rooms,
r"M Homs. JAMBS SIMONS, Proprietor,
J|®C»S MORGAN HOTEL, QUHNBLAHD,
J?* 4w Kit distinguished patronage l! Hll
£*H*r Sit A. Musgrave, K.C.M.G. AeflOn
81 visitors. Two-storey builtllngi. Team
Is ea • splendid view oan be obtained of
ihi, l,* tg d mountain of gold, and within a few
Walk 2 f the company's works. Passenger
SJaoaches dally from Rockhampton and
2? rallway-statlonß. W. UONCHTOH, Pre-
sJ* 1 •* the Stm of Monokton and Go.
MOUNT MORGAN.
Nulaai national Hatai p
II BEDROOMS.
T®® Hotel has been beautifully done op, and
ht*, 1 *•* toady for the reoeptlon of visitors,
hi. y—lhf srt. Cellar stocked with best brands
*•**!» moderate. Mrs. Haisax, Proprietress.
FOODS’ HOTEL,
ULBOUBNE
KAUWA* TISHIRUI, BMNOSR-IWgBB®,
T . —RS patronising the a bore hotel, which
till a!,. “Wr had an addition of over US rooms,
I|L ““ all modern Improvements, such as light,
‘ il! 4 Well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
ly i2i*' room * hot and oold baths, shower
hy. baths passenger elevator, electric
Ik. 1 *»tPhone, and all other hotel requisites, not
*Nsw f ® Mwd 1,1 Australia. Visitors oan rely
ly Jj® lß S called for early morning trains. Letters
promptly attended to. Prices very
PETER WOODS,
Owner and PropiletM
OR.
Medical.
. ... SPEER'S
ly/ 4 *o** 0 ** DISPENSARY IS MARGARET BIRBES~
bt„ U ® and York Streets.) P.O. Box Bit. Dr.
‘ tegular Graduated Physician, eduoated at
StSathT ° 6lleße ' U-8. (lor confirmation see New Zealand
sjj/' ***Oary Slet, 1880) also New South Wales
hy, 'April lTth, 1888). The dootor has devoted 14
with excellent results. All applying to
l|tsoelve hie honest opinion ol their oomplalnts.
anting; no need. He 111 guarantee
HO* I*o OtlPft ‘ ■ * '■
°hre In every case he nndert kes,
torfelt
no
ry
•eaßon lor doing so le this—whe there
wn * e ’ * nd nothing but an lnorganlo trouble, or,
isli * °onglomeration ol symptoms produoing
sP*d withl 1 * 1 ’ there le no reason why It oannot be re
proper remedies, therelore he guarantees
C* , hBj>v, , distinctly understood that he does not olalm
““Possibilities, or to have Jmlraculous' power,
S&thW • y . *° he a skilled and suooeeslul physician
Si. *AL niS!? me d In hie speciality—CHßONlC) Ann
HJlftgrj-WSASESIoF MEN and WOMEN. People
yrjl be »,* I Jwtanoe oan, by explaining their troubles In
*S tav * ed home. The oourse ol treatment will
? luterlere with their business. Kxamlna-
.I 06 ,ree to all. Charges moderate. H. J
g,i’* s Margaret Street, between George and York
jjth, jjVjhty. Poet Office Box, No. 820. Offioe hoars
sjUl »£*•»». 11 to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, Irom
w. Bnlv
I 0 H A R D 8.
*0 *•* Urge Bound BOOK on SELF-CURB
Diseases 1 price, Including post-
l v** >bampe. Consultation costs nothing,
0
: r
hi* 4, Ihlh&n
s
will tell you at onoe whether your
tt not. Address—
ARDS,
, RIOHARDI
STREET, SYDNEY.
Ml
gRBSCRIPTIONB are te
ST* be found In the “LIGHT AND
Sjta ®be Speedy Cure of Nervotus De-
C Kindred Diseases, Bus. A oopy of this
Bent Free, sealed, for Six Fenny
Address—
8. WARD «c CO., S
Sydney Pharmacy.fi
70 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Announcement*.
v," AN& dtUha
aboalyptr Oil
Y V AND | iiAi i i|
Ointmbkt.
V I** 80 *. from tbe luielyptß Villi
\ ? h 2S D MEDAL Adelaida Bxblbltlaß,
rv*"«>g other competitors.
i ™eat i-> i? v kiLuinm
jSj
te et Centennial Exhlbltlop. BfilCVi
k
11TVi Oonsumptiop, Asthma,
Jbbi i Neuralgia, Bad Legs. Bid 111
H Q> Sprains, Cclds, Dyi»«lßi
osted to any address, i
jDs^^aßtory: Oootammdia.
- 227 JELIZABETH STREET,
Sold by all Chemists.
* h r, . —_
ShJ *• CARTER AND
*. CARTER AND 0 0.,
PPlug and Forwarding Agents, Ji
uvsSrrw ND STATION AGENTS.
»7 Queen-street. WCHI
r,; n °y-John Bros., 17 Custom House
Mn^: Benc y —t - n. Young, Phoenix
aM k ? t ' street * K " M
throughout Queensland.
—The* Sydney Bulletin,
Edition, Publishers FITZ-
Subscription (payable Btrictly
Iv 10t Onn Shillings per
u 6 “°und per annum. i n)
JL
(Jba? be on Bale every Friday at
™ 'Ke-street, or from the runners In
Business Announcements,
••-.T
MANUFACTURERS
& IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPSic
t . *
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY %
0/opostte- /*assetCers
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECOIfOW
6nd
Hare your TTrnbreHa fru4 *
ccrrered, and your
Paras Ola re-lined and mad*<
to New, at
J. SULLIVAB‘(
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, betwem.
Lirerpool and Bathurst Strr *
parasols made to install i
tn mes Repairs neatly • iww
PALACE FAMILY HOTEL
Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE
V irat-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House In the City.
DAVID LYONS Pbopbibtob.
Excelsior hotel, charters
TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
T
O 'RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
£60,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable In
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight In
fold. Send your full address, and we will sendJPost
'ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Redfern, Sydney.
MANU FA CTURING'HATTERS
GEO RGE STREET
S Y D N,E V
V PORTERS OF All THE
. NEWEST SHAPES.
m And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE
v\K
iVC
%
v
0\
OBSXTWCPU*
FIRST CLASS AWARD
c *
highest decree of merit
Sts
OV
ISTHEB EST'fNItH M
L „NONE OTfffeft B'OT
WAUC H’S
rtECti VEOTHE INTERNATIONAL
PR |2E MEDAL
H ARB OU
Sold by AH Crocftrs^BiO^reKeepers
Business Announcements.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
O'
PATENT
s
ia
LLS
PS
«7
Are universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills, Flushings
of Heat, Boss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costiveness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
ling Sensations, &c. The first dose mil give relief
in twenty minutes.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invariable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humour s> and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be mthout them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
wilTsoon restore females of all ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
Who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Diver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore, the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BEECHAM’S PILLS have the Largeet Sal* of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheeaing, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
COUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short ume be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
miß BANE OF NEW ZEALAND,
B Sydney Branchesi
•« PITT STREET, and 638 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,000,000
Reserve Fund... ... ... 600,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Oanacia, odd can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exohange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred't.
Drafts issued and Bills oc’ looted on most favour-
able termß, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN Acting Manager.
; i mm ■
■
s
CJIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NjEfRVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
NosMobe MERCURY ob otheb Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C.
WRIGHT,
M. 8., Ch. M., &0.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special oomplainte; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and EDgland, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds, the Diploma of Physioian and Surgeon, bM
established the
Yletorian Progressive Medical Institute,”!
STREET.
68, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual oure of all phases of Net-
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
UDr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Sorofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your oomplaint. If it is ourable, he
will tell you so: if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he ia confident of effeoting a
oure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your oase.
ABSOLUTE.
:ererß can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that I do not olalm
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
1 olalm only to be a skilled and suooessful Physioian
thoroughly Informed In my speciality.
Note Address—
FBOMME VESICAL INSTITUTE,
63, Flindebb Street W., Melbourne.
m No connection with any other Medical Institute in
Australia. Box 258, G.P.O.
w
aflioe.
ANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
N
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Speolal Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. BalcMn, Johnston & Go.,
Craunerclal Chambers, Bond-Street, lydiin
Robert butcher tc oo
hare REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
692 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out’•!
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
"\\F E can recommend the Imperial
▼Y Cutting Saloon as the best In Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address-
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor,
b R RI DOE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
BRONCHITIS. COUGH
**o CHEST A^ECUONS
&
IPJ
ET
»5»
AM
K K
6. STEPHENSON
HAS ON SALE-
WINE OASES, BREWERS’ CASES, VAT*;
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEON*.
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &0.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STRBEfI
Between King and Market Streeto.
afti» wip *eA Wklgktri, wepom
. Boi t'e Meard Elixir did this,
land fill do it on either bald
’head or bare face Forces
heavy Moustache in from 9 to
k* and never fails ,20,00 L ,( * , . .
C*p|r*'icAJttt$ a young men already :eear full (flopyrtghteA*
beards, having used Ito 3 pkto. No injury, easily applied, osrtakd
in qfeet. Packets, Is. &i. each, S for 8», &8.„ poet paid„ sent unde*
saver, free Address, Fctmik peiiifrlMg Sole Agent .
Bo* T 3Q t * g.1T.8.W.
Sw ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Makati
• 188 PITT STREET.
i
w&»
ftbrqneea oaHlie
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for Its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Thru: Gold Medals—
PARIS,I67B; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for prfe-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRiEA & CYMBIDIUM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, nnil being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth and
Improving the appearance of the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON'S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotloa.
Of all Dialers, and of iht. Manufacturers—
J. & 15. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bono Street, Lonbon.
Trade Mark—'‘White Bose” on“ Golden


MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
*OB to 209 Kent-straet,
Sydney,
dare always In STOCK for
SALE bo bhe TRADB Mid
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, Mid
GBNBRAL HARDER ARB,
GLASS, OHINA
AMD
IARTHBNWARB,
WINSS, BEERS AND SPIRITS,
and genera!
BULK MBROHANDISB,
Agenba tor
JOBS WALKER and 80Wff
Old Highland Whleky
1. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
i T, GAYBNB
Sahnappi and Geneva.
4 KELVIN and SOUS,
V&lnbarerh Pate Ale
CAN
RECOMMEND
EUSENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen's
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any In
the oity.
WIG-MAKING AND HAIR WORK,
french and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
PRIVATE ROOMS FOR DYEING THE HAIR.
IVofe the Address —
86 ELIZABETH STREET
ia few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
' —F. m.
anm o»
«r WINBS, BFIBITB, BEERS, &0.„ £nO.« *M
Georgs and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
BPMCiALITIES; —
John Jameson's Dublin Whisky (6 to II yean old)j W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe's, Mid Wise's
(old Cork) Whiskies. Henneasy's, Mas tail’s and aazerao’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Sooteh Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.R.
tr The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. MT All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales’ Hotel, 778 & 780 Gaorga-straat.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 Beorge Street, Sydney.
Mr BUND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIEST-OLISS LADIES’ EEFEESEMEST EQQM &b! LA?ATDE! f
GIPPS STEM* (opposite A. Hobdebn & Sons).
Prodnca Stores gipps street and darlinghurst road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.'
~«°a £¥biw
JIPUmTURB WAREHOUSES! 1
YORK STRUT, WYKYARD SQUARE,
AMD
60 'CLARENCE 'STREET, SYDNEY,
HalbnraSp and London.
nOiXiUSTKATHD OATALO9DM WRI PRICK LIST, FRBB ON APPLICATION?
WALL AOH BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S
BLACK 011}
OB"
■■BROCATIOR).
JOB -
HBUITIUIfI
Will make Hair Grow over Older* 9**
kwftfdad SIBVHR3 MEDAL, S *
CJnsqaalled as a Dressing, i for> jgjf
frOUNDS, SORE
lALLS, BROKEN KNEES, <* *
11ELS, SAND and Q UABT ® mbro
fOH and MANGE ; and as an* jQl oi
as SPRAINS, CURBS, STIFF
a»& INLARGEMENTS.
so**** 1
SICI
3*. pe*
Bom AaKNT n
y. BaflerfieldJf' '
I4| GEORGE STREET ”
AND -Tjnl#
SiS ELIZABETH STREET, ®
4fk few i* a* all Wholesale
Saddlers and Storekeeper
A Blowing in every nff 9 ' Ojgjf,®
HOLLOWAY’! PIMB ..
there Ii net a country ,B Mt* tft&Z
Ihe healing virtual of tbeie g*»d ***(» $ f/(r!
(eeognised by thousandi oi eoßarew a *L
iilmenti oi humanity their ben eS* s * y* * i»r I* jug
the addrtw Is net 111
urleui
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE BTRE
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUBIO. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
Fans. Easels. Brackets, Purses, Card Cases and Japanese Carlos.
BALL PROGRAMMES.
CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. -
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AX THE
Wermeim
SEWING MACHINE OEPOTB
IN
V I O T O RI A..
MELBOURNE
ii
Richmond
Windsob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
EOHUOA
BEEOH W ORTH ..
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL..
SALE
MARYBOROUGH...
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
... ... Swan Street.
... ... Chapel Street.
... ... Sturt Street.
... ... Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
... ... 66 Moorabool Street.
... ... Main Street, next Aesohlmann'l.
... ... High Street.
... ... Camp Street.
... ... Gray Street.
... ... Fairy Street.
... ... Foster Street.
... ... High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
WnHN
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
m BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OB BACKETS THBOUSHOUT Tl»
h**
a-. JP. riCSL.ES <5O SOWS, Csurrlstg-© (
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
City Repository:
Metropolitan Manufactory
B, 7,9, 11 LATROBE STREET WEST. ME L B
32. 34. 36 BRUNSWICK STREET. TIT2 0
O'*
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for T§@
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED os an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period or in the Event of Survived. FULL >
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. KST Branches In all the Colonies and in the Unimd Kingdom.
WIESENER’S WATOHE3I WIE3ENERS WATCHES I WIESBNER’S WA 1 j/”'
HAVE proved a success as Useful and Reliable Timekeepers these 20 years. The reliable lines of the Cheaper class Watches (in sterling Silver hnd Gold cases duly) are fully toV**T f
and the Public can rely upon being served better and cheaper in the long run than in Ironmongers or Toy Shops! wS the “to St theW
** ROTHERHAM and ENGLISH WATCH COMPANY’S SILVER ENGLISH PATENT LEVERS, from 70s. («r WALTHAM WA^O^
Remember the Address — Jr
T. F. WIESENER, Watchmaker, Jeweller and Optician, 334 George-street, Sydney (half-way between Hunter-street and Post (HWr
