

your
Grocer for
FRYS MALTED COCOA.
J. 8. FRY 6 SONS, Bristol, London and Sydnct.
“An ordinary oup contains more active properties o1 malt than a pint of tbe best Ale>r Porter."— Lanch*
MBmi
■
a
:
m
m
"frSso
act**'
HVWWw*
m
m
H
m
Tiim
:\j.
Pi
m
r
i
S:
slml
k
essrs. BEALE & COMPANY'S
MAGNIFICENT NEW PREMISES,
& 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Will be OPENED NEXT MONTH with a Splendid Show of the
Pianos, Organs, Earmosiuns, ani 11:
Stilt Pattnt Sawing Muhins.
Th
%
® finest Music Warehouse in Australasia. Catalogues and Samples upon application.
vh
® re you live, Messrs. Beale & Co. *ill supply you with a Piano, Organ, Sewing or Washing Machine
upon very easy terms.
The Bulletin


Hardman Bros.
Gr&ra
tocAca
n
n
z
*sro
/89S
,(®CEIDM!EBTO^j
IF
ir t
mSxf 6r**X*fAcTVffy. /Krwvowr''y e/nsj/OLCcxsa C Smtfcr
ftiuAccu
SONtSONS
*
a
ojHa,
uPa&p
ISIR ROGER
o
o
mu
DIXSONS
PAIN
MUTTON'S PAIN PAUNX
CURES ALL PAIN*
The beat known remedy (or RHEUMATISM
HKURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, &c.
Mid taken internally onreß DIARRHGDA
BYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all. other
Internal aches and pains.
mtm w?~ •old E»erih^|l|f
~ (UCiClflfcm, dOH «WWIETOR.
fetf B AND’ BVDNETI
PAINT
L^«trjajHixsrfc3i-=uh.JNi_j c
Millar, carter and co.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T, H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
FREE
FJRE3QBIPTIONB ere t*
be found in the “ LIGHT ANT
LIFE," lor the Speedy Core of Nervous Do
bility and Kindred Diseases, Bco, A copy of ttalr
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Pena?
Stamps, Address —
8. WARD fc CO..
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney
CAN
I*
RECOMMEND
EUfiENE'S
(From Paris)
Ladles' and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
A.s the most central and well-appointed of any In
the city.
WIG-MAKING AND HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
PRIVATE ROOMS FOR DYEING THE HAIR.
Note the Address—
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
CAJSOJN brothers,
*%
m I
LIMITED,
908 to 269 Kent-etreet,
Sydney,
Hare Always In STOCK for
SALK bo the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYER?
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYENS
Sohnapps and Genova,
A, MELVINand SONS
Edinburgh Palo Alt
J>ATBNT DIRECT ACTING
MMPDS PIPS,
For use in MINES, CHEMICAL WORKS; for
Working SHEEP-SHEARING MACHINES,
ROCK DRILLS, etc., etc.
Oveb Twenty Thousand (20,000) in Use.
Manufactured by the Wcstinghouse Brake
Company (Limited), Loudon.
Full particulars on application to the Sole Agents,
IMRAY & GO.,
410 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
McLEAN BEOS., KKG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTfo,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
0
Q
CO
S 3
U 1
o
d>
6
SCM
t-5
i.
*
LuJ
QQ
U 5
oc
S?^A^
AW
<V
cc
■
m
XswYTYg, HLacYiYns, ktibsstoa ¥Vr«-*reooi ¥&\&v t»atWik
SLKOTRO PtA.TKD WAKK, OatLWS, TOOTjS,
SAB COOKING BTOVKS J—LKONIS FIiKTCHKR’EL 3KANB Is WAIiKKIt'B,
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES. fcc.. (c 0.
irami teast row®
!IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
BREAD, TEA-CAKES. PASTRY. **’
*
ARK
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE’
WHEN MADE WITH
Mm Australian Toast p o#
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
_ jjp.
SOLD IN TINS AT 6d. THE HALF -
jLjEjJIi'XJdL Jbiiiili XJSiiiJtiJU**
white kiiil sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gvms, ena‘
<Mly fragrant breath can beet ba obtained by discarding gritty tooth powdara and «***
oafl Ming daily
owlatidA*
Odonto
ingredients of
i; (t whitens ®
n. eVi« imms. and s - ,a
@s? Pearl Dentifrice, a white powder com'
> from
I of the most recherchi In
lisrbal, and warranted free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients
Sh® teeth, prevents end arrestß decey, eradicates scurvy, atren
pleasing fragrance to the breath, while its anti- septic and anti .
sighly beneficial influence on the teeth and gums. All Dentists
ijMsstee can possibly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay as ®
. — ... . rriAmop. ODONTQJua «Sw»ys MW*.
’.on-gritty tooth powder: such BOWX
No other'Odonto Is genvfM.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR dli Us «oiw a *oM«®
@®fe and golden-haired people and children.
ROWLAiPS’ KALYOOR bMPttfiM the aomptadcss, eradicates til
sod mudor. the sain soft, smooth ®a»S Air. anywhera for
V, M sued •'"’SSI tirainnUpiß
Wholesale and Retail Agents—EiiiOTT Bros., and E. Pbossbb h o^.
ERV O U
S
FREE
D E
MEDICAL BOOK.
I
i, Specialist ln J^gvO® s
F-OCBB FOB N*» v
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Sblf
Disbadbs. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Addsess— *
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbal*'*
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW
fcp
m
Bn
liflllil 1 'UllllllHH
the . rjp
Federal coffee Pala u
CORNER OF
IZlxAgv dz Collins Streets,
Containing 560 ROOMS, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visit° rS
01
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnish 6
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuis> n 6
Appointments Unequalled in the City. .
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL « GROUND F L
With excellent Menii, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by 'a civil and obliging 8
$
y
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE.
George Cohen
TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMF TLY
P
f


The Bulletin
Vol 9—Ko 451.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER *>t>, 1888.
Price, 6d.
The Diamond Doctor: “See how it Sparkles.”


NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Poland Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
sity The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not rvish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
The Rational Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At M Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £10 >J
Half-yearly ... 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
s/ such MSS.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1888.
The Oort of the Water-main.
The colony o! New South Wales has long
been afflicted with drought. The crops are
parishii g for want of water, the sheep and
cattle are famishing because the clouds with-
hold their moisture from the earth. The
winter is well nigh spent and the long months
of a torrid summer threaten a widespread de-
solation such as the country has not seen for
many years. Now, New Smth Wales is a
pious land, governed by rulers who seek an
argument in support of their fiscal policy by
a sonorous proclamation filched from Holy
Writ. Freetrade, it is eagerly announced
by its prophets, is peculiarly favoured of the
Lord of Hosts and the followers of Cobden
are triumphantly claimed as the divinely-
appointed ministers of God on earth. The
strongest political machine in the land
is the Orange Lodge, sworn to the
eternal defence and propagation of the
dogmas contained between the covers
of the Bible. The Roman Ca holic
Church, also an active factor in the politics
of New South Wales, derives all its strength
from a belief in a personal God who tan be
propitiated by prayer and seriously offended
by neglect. One of the fiercest of factional
rallying-cries is the right claimed by sec-
tarians to expound the Bible in State
schools. God’s personal interference is
everywhere acknowledged. It has been pro-
posed to open Parliament with prayer. The
surest recommendation to a Sydney editorial
chair is the erstwhile comprassment of one’s
jugular by the white-tie of sacerdotalism. A
Sydney merchant engages a clerk who can
produce a testimonial from a clergyman,
who has taught a class in Sunday school, or
who is an active member of the Y.M.C A.
The New South Wales Contingent could not
leave the country on a pleasure trip, with
the intent to spoil the heathen who rage in a
foreign land, without the prayers and bene-
dictions of Catholic prelate, Anglican bishop,
and Nonconformist clergyman. Every day
many hundreds, every Sabbath many thou-
sands, supplicate the God of plenty for a
providential supply of bread, and an Exhi-
bition cannot be opened in a neighbouring
colony unless the voice of the pietistic turtle
be heard in the congregation of the Lord of
shekels.
* * *
Personal Providence being thus recognised
so widely as a governmental institution,
what more rational course could be pur-
sued than supplicating for water when
water was lacking? “Daily bread” de-
pends on periodical rain, and certain divines,
recognising the intimate connection, sought
their kneeling-cushions and thumbed their
prayer-books, and filled the land with the
voice of holy suppliance. Their prayers
were heard, and pious jubilation filled the
souls of the faithful. The rain came, the
little cloud, like unto a man’s hand, rose
from out the sea and spread in the heavens
till the sky was black with clouds and wind.
A pitiful drizzle o. zed out of the celestial
reservoir and laid the dust and made the
wood-blocked traffic-ways slippery and greasy
for the iron-shod hoofs of horses, and the
satisfaction bred of expectancy beamed from
the faces of those who Jive in clubs and
whose Incomes are derived from the posses-
sion of flocks and herds. Even the scoffers
were silenced for a moment, for the pulpits
rang with multitudinous sermons on the
potency of prayer. But the rain was of too
diaphanous a character to evoke universal
gratitude. The Scotch mist cleared and the
sky was as provokiogly b ue as heietofore,
though ever and anon flecked wich mocking,
leaden hued clouds that sad-, d away into the
West with ilia sun, 1 avi: g old and chill
the hearts and the hopes ot the fetich men
and the rain-makers who had s< ugot to irri-
gate the country with the pr mouncement of
a verbal charm.
# • »
This, however, is the A ;e of Science and
alleged Progress. Oar minds are now in the
summer solstice of enlightenment in which
only a small section lies beneath the ban of
ignorance and darkness a: d religious super-
stition. Many of our most prominent divines
are numbered amongst the apostles of ad-
vancement. Some reverend gentlemen
actually read Darwin and write temporising
little tractlets about the operation of physical
law in the realm of spooks and disembodied
spirits. James of Manchester, erstwhile of
Melbourne, scoffed with impious gusto con-
cerning the folly of praying for rain, though
he regularly prayed for ‘ • daily bread ”
and the Royal Family—notwithstanding
the apparent opposition between the notions
of a cottage-loaf and the well-being of an
Imperial personage who bio. med in a police.
He likewise smoked a c’ay-pipe in his shiit-
sleeves and fondled a bulldog while he wrote
ponderous essays on Irrigation and lamented
the “ Socialistic tendency of the age ; ’ a ad
these little traits are also cl timed by the
Science-eum-Bible party as evidence of the
freedom of th s holy individual from the
superstitious follies of his more bigoted
brethren. Ye 3, this is the age of advance-
ment and shams, ai.d though we patronise
the DePy with mental reservations on Sun-
day, we worship Mama on and Science and
Common-sense throughout the remainder of
the we.k. The modern belief in God is
subject to limitations which a*e cart folly
prescribed by Mrs. Grundy. We say our
prayers because it is fashionable, but, bless
you, we never mean anything. It looks
well and it doesn’t shock any tody. A p o
fe3sed atheist is simply “ horiid a coarse-
minded creature capable of committing any
enormity. There is an over-seeing Provi-
dence—of course there is ; jet still there is
no doubt that Science has certain lavs which
are timply imperative. Thus, without the
courage to avow i:s belief, modern civilisa-
tion courts God in print and in assembly
while it smiles at Science over its shoulder.
* * *
This diplomatic attitude is beautifully ex-
emplified by universal colonial usage. Upon
the opening of the Melbourne Exhibition,
Sir James M‘Bain, to prevent accidents
and to obtain the interest of the Lord
on ths side of the enterprise, offered
up an official supplication. Thereat the
alleged Christian Pres* of Australasia was
filled with mockery. We do not say that it is
wrong to mock, but the soi-disant Christian
cannot consistently mock at his own faith.
“ What!” exclaimed the pious folding-
machine, “ask God’s blessing on a business
undertaking ! Ha ! ha ! ha ! ’ Yet why
not ? The prophets and children of Israel,
upon whose example the Christians of to-
day pretend to base the conduct of their
lives, were painfully minute in cataloguing
their material wants when supplicating the
Deity. If they were athirst or an hungied
if they wanted to go upon a journey or to
buy a vineyard, they sought Divine assist-
ance and direction, and, it is alleged in the
Bible which Christians of to-day affect to
believe as a divinely-inspired revelation, they
received both. The Christ whose life and
teachings are held forth for the example of
His followers recommends prayer, insisting
that if the supplimt have faith even as a
grain of mustard-leed he shall by prayer
cause mountains to be cast into the sea.
• *
Sirius is a long way off and Heaven must
ba far beyond Sirius ! Thus, apparently,
excogitates the pious scientist of the Nine-
teenth Century who believes in the God of
his fathers on probation. When, however,
rain is to be prayed for, and the consistent
clergyman really means what he says, the
matter is alluded to by a paper like the
Sydney Morning Herald —a paper, by the
way, edited and conducted by an ex-clergy-
man—in a short business paragraph in which
Providence is curtly mentioned as though He
were the head of a mercantile firm being
negotiated with as to the probable amount
He will take for a building-site. The Sydney
Daily Telegraph deals with the question in
a different manner. This paper is also
edited and conducted by one who has lifted
up his voice in a pulpit. It is an organ
which endorses the New South Wales
Premier's statement that Freetrade is the
fiscal policy of the Redeemer, and that Pro-
tection is a ruse of the Devil. It gives verba-
tim reports of sermons, church conferences,
sectarian tea meetings, synods, presbyteries,
lectures for the defence of religion; oft-
times it publishes leaders on the prospects
of Congregationalism in Australia. But it is
ambitious of being considered the organ of
“respectable” Advancad Thought, of good
tone, ai d of fashion. Bun-feeds and ban-
quets, Bible meetings ancPtalls, dull sabba-
ticism and scientific speculation find place
in its columns side by side. It believes, and
it doubts, and it thoroughly enjoys itself in
(qual proportions. God i 3 good—if there is
a God— but the Devil is not a bad sort, after
all—if there is a Devil; is about the sum of
its creed—if it has a creed. Its attitude to
everything is one of comfortable and fashion-
able Christian cum scientific Agnosticism,
with a disposition to enlargs the boundaries
of its unbelief every Saturday. This organ
felt itself called upon to proclaim its freedom
from superstition in a recent leader on
“ The Prayers for Rain.”
* # *
Of course, the ministers were sneered at.
They w*re reminded that this is the age of
doubt, Advance and Science. The objects of
the Association for the Advancement of Pro-
fessional Men were pitted against the efforts
of the clergy man to call down water from the
clouds. In effect the clerks were urged to
cry louder, and it was insinuated that they
might call from morning even until noon
without receiving in response the still
small voice of falling water. Like the
priests of Baal they might leap upon the
altar and gash themse v. s with koives—this
was a scientific age. The journalistic
Elijah mocked them, telling them indirectly
that their rain-fetich might be talking, or
pursuing, or mayhap he was on a journey,
or peradventure he slept and required
wakir g. “Lo!” saith the Sydney Daily
Telegraph, “ ihere was neither voice nor
any answer.” Yet the stalwart scientist
who edits this paper is a professing Chris-
tian, a defender of the Faith, a man who
opens his columns to discussions on points
of doctrine, an ex-cleigyman of the Church
Militant. He would, doubtless, be inex-
pressibly shocked were he accused of disbe-
lief in a personal God or challenged to re-
nounce that rr mnant of fidelity to the teach-
ings of his youth which he still professes to
retain. And this is the practical Chris-
tianity of hundreds who imagine they have
emancipated themselves from the influence
of effete superstition and who stand forward
to do battle as champions in the cause of
human progress.
The conduct of the brothers Newman is
intelligible and logical. One surrendered
his reason to the guidance of the Church
and became a Cardinal of the Faith as it is in
Peter. The other subjected the illusions of
his mind to the dominance of liis reason and
stayed not until he had entered on the solid
foot-hold of Agnosticism. Between these
two poles is there no safe halting-place.
Faith or reason, superstition or science,
dogma or logic, prayers for rain, or prac.ical
iirigation, water-storage, and atmospheric
condensation. We hold that prayers for rain
are idle ; but so are prayers for “daily
bread ” and providential interference on be-
half of the sick. Na'ural law, evolution,
logical sequence, dominate the operations of
the Universe. Fashionable faith, religi us
compiomise, appear weak, foolish, and
illogical. Surer is it, says Hume, that the
sun shines in the daytime, though one may
not have seen it, than that it has not
risen. The establishment of such an anomaly
could not be effected by the sworn testimony
of a multitude when pitted against an occur-
rence of which men have for years had
diurnal experience consonant with an abso-
lubely-ascertained law of Nature. The con-
duct of those clergymen who prayed for rain
is consistent. They believed in a personal
God, and they hold that it is as easy for Him
to set aside meteorological laws as to listen
to the individual suppliant who interrupts
the councils of Heaven with a biseechment
for food or shelter. This is, at least, logical.
So also is the attitude of the Agnostic who
believes in nothing which he cannot bring
into consonance with his reason. But the
scoffer who prays, like Dr. Moorhouse, for
partial Providential interference with the
laws of Nature, but who relegates to man
what he professes to regard as God’s, Is
illogical and inconsistent, and the truth is
not in him.
Brisbane Figaro goes once more on the war-
trail for justice to the victims—four or five in
number —of the judicial atrocity known as the trial
of the “ Hopeful ” pirates—a criminal farce which
ranks along with the Mount Rennie disgrace in
its utter disregard of every principle of humanity
and equity. M'Neil and Williams and their
companions, like the Mount Rennie prisoners,
were convicted by means of evidence not
good enough to hang a dog upon; one of the
chief witnesses against them had the alternative
of giving “satisfactory” evidence or going into
the dock himself; the other bore a dubious
character ; and there was no proof that the men
for whose “murder ” they were condemned were
dead or even seriously injured. Several of the
prisoners were sentenced to perpetual confinement,
and two were reserved to be hanged for a Christmas
holiday, but the people of Queensland, unlike
fche>r somnolent neighbours of New South Wales
took the matter up with a vigour which,
threatened insurrection and the death-sentence
was commuted. The “ Hopeful ” prisoners,
those of them who remain, are now dragging out
a sentence of life-long penal servitude in irons on
the sbrength of the evidence of a discredited
nigger. One, happier than the rest, has died in
his irons, the authorities refusing to permit them
to be removed except from his corpse, and the
others are sbill rotting in gaol. If the MTlwraith
Cabinet wishes to accomplish an act of tardy jus-
tice it will be well-advised to lose no time, and if
Governor Musgrave pines for another oppor-
tunity to maintain the royal prerogative he should
soon have a chance to assert the right of the Crown
to refuse mercy in a case of greater moment than
that of Kitts and his boots.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The War-Whoop of the Money-bag.
It is frequently asked in accents of surprise :
“ Why do the heathen rage?” likewise : “Why
does Labour seek to gain its end by dyna-
mite?” The heathen rage generally because
missionaries seek to convert them with rum
while they despoil them of copra. Labour
is sometimes goaded into employing dyna-
mite because it finds capitalistic organs ad-
vocating the employment of policeman’s baton
and soldier’s bayonet in the settlement of strikes
and lock-outs. Only Ihe other day the SM.
Herald urged the employment of the mailed
arm of militarism in putting down the miners of
Newcastle, should they, in the interests of Labour
strain existing laws placed on the statute-book
and daily enforced in the interests of Capital. Let
the miners break the laws of their country and
the Herald demands that they “ be met with the
policeman’s batoD, or, if necessary, the soldier’s
bayonet.” Of course the Herald conve-
niently bunks the fact that it would be
a more heinous sin to offend against the
law of humanity and kin-heartedness with
bayonet and baton than to break the
class-manufactured laws framed for the exclu
stve benefit of the wealthy. The Herald is a
Christian paper. It claims also to be somewhat
enlightened. It speaks praitingly of reformers,
provided they have been dead as long as Socrates.
It is a paper which claims some small percentage
of intelligence to its eight ounces of weight, yet it
pretends to revere laws the great majority of
which are purely formal and have no reference to
the maintenance of either morality or social well-
being ; laws passed into the statute-book by a
class-vote of those who ruled the country before
such a thing as manhood suffrage was obtained*
Most reformers have been law-breakers, from
Christ to Cromwell, and the probability is that
most reformers always will, even from CROMWELL
to that future redeemer of man’s intelligence who
shall emancipate the intellect of New South Wales
from the half-a-pound rule of the Herald. Btlt
the Herald is crassly unintelligent. In the same
issue of the paper in which is advocated the em-
ployment of policeman’s baton and soldier’s
bayonet against the Newcastle colliers appears the
following from “ Our American Letter
The great Burlington strike is leading to some very
ugly disclosures in its death-throes. Although they were
beaten a month ago the men kept well together, and have
now been caught by the Pinkerton detectives in the very
aot of arranging a series of dynamite outrages. Suspicion
was first excited by several unsuccessful explosions, and
it now seems clear that the President of the Union him-
self certainly knew of and probably inspired them. In
other sections of the country there has also been a good
deal of mysterious incendiarism and other hinds of mis-
chief ; and it is to be feared that a good many of the
unions, now that they have lost hope of speedy politioal
triumph, are tainted with the worst principles of
anarchism.
Why do the workmen do these things ? Because
only a few years ago they were in America shot
down at the bidding of Capital. We have, in
Australia, as yet no anarchism, no dynamite, no
incendiarism; but that is because we have no
Trafalgar-square police-outrages and no Pinker-
ton detectives. If, however, we follow the Herald’s
advice, and keep on forwarding to Newcastle a
goodly supply of “ policeman’s batons ” and
“soldiers'bayonets” and some degraded hirelings
to wield them, we shall rapidly be as high in the
scale of civilisation as Eogland or America. Some
few of us are in spirit so already. Listen to the
war-whoop of the money-bag :
“The boldest measures are the safest, this is a sentence
that should be written in letters of gold and placed in
every couacil chamber in Europe.” These were the
words of Lord Nelson. The miners have declared war,
and by their own act have brought suffering and want
into many a household, and although blood has not yet
been shed, boycotting and intimidation has been resorted
to. It is all very well to say “ Blessed are the peace-
makers,” but how is a lasting peace to be obtained at the
handj of an enemy who will scruple at nothing so long as
the end is gained ? Arbitration and boards of conciliation
may patch up a difference for the time being, but the evil
only grows more rapidly. Let the mine-owners put their
foot down on trade unionism for once and for all, and de
clare they will employ no man who belongs to a union,
that's the proper way to go to work, and let the Govern-
ment send up 500 of our ornamental soldiers to protect the
non-unionist workers Place the mining district under mar-
tial law and drum-head court martial every man who dares
to interfere with the, I am sorry to say, not unalienable
right of a subject of the Br tish Empire to earn a living
for himself and family by any honest means he is caoable
of. The absurdity of boasting of the freedom of the sub-
ject is so palpable that I wcnder at the presumption of
any intelligent person being guilty of either speaking or
writirnr such a sent ment. The Colonial Secretary counts
four hundred millions of Chinese as nothing, but five or
six thousand miners—Yes, what about them ?
This precious production, subscribed by some fire-
hugging, comfortable creature who signs the name
“ Belligerent ” to his tin-trumpet blast, appeared
the other day in the columns of the Sydney
Morning Herald, and people fatuously ask
“Why was the Press excluded from the confer
ence by the miners ?—the masters did not exclude
the Press 1” While papers are run by syndicates
to prop up “ vested interests ” the miners can
never want a pretext for violence, for the beauty
and holiness of Force will ever be advocated by the
organ whose columns are devoted to Capital.
An Infamous Newspaper.
Writes the London correspondent of a Sydney
daily paper
Mr. John Redmond (the elder and abler of the brothers
Redmond who visited Australia some four or five years
ago) has given the country a glimpse of the partisanship
of the Times in its treatment of Irish questions and Irish
members. On the day following the Phoenix Park mur-
ders Mr. Redmond was to have addressed a meeting in the
Frettrade Hail, Manchester. He rose on the Sunday
morning, having heard nothing of the news ; he went to
the service in the Catholic Church, and did not get back
until 1 o'clock in the afternoon. He then heard an indefl-
nite rumour, which was to the effect that Lord F. Caven-
dish and Lord Spencer had been assassinated. He en-
deavoured to find the truth of the matter, and all he
ascertained was that the rumour happily was untrue as
to Lord Spencer, but, unfortunately, true as to Lord F.
Cavendish. He went to the meeting. He rose the
moment the chairman took the chair, and he told the
people that a terrible misfortune had happened to Ireland,
that he could not hold the meeting, and he proposed a
resolution in the strongest terms denouncing the
atrocious murder of Lord F. Cavendish in Dublin, and
he expressed his opinion that under no circum-
stances —under no conceivable circumstances—could
assassination be tolerated. He came up to London
the next day, and the Times, in publishing his remarks,
deliberately accused him of having omitted any mention
of Mr. Burke's murder because he approved of it. He
wrote to the Times a letter, and that letter the Times re-
fused from that day to this to publish. He came down
to the House a night or two after this, and he took the
opportunity of stating there the facts, and the Times of
the next morning, which reported the rest of his speech,
did not report that. Hansard reported it fortunately, so
that, although the editor of the Times can plead that he
has no re collection of receiving Mr. Redmond’s letter, he
cannot deny that Mr. Redmond made public his dis-
claimer in the House of Commons, and that his accuser,
the Times. onßted that particular pes°agp. T L at would
be bad enou h, but the offtnce .s aggravated tenfold


when we find that this very incident is included by the
Times among the “ charges and allegations ” against the
Irish party in “ Parnellism and Ciime.” We are familiar
in Australia with charges against leading Australian
journals for partiality in political reports and comments,
and it is the fashion with some of our public men to con-
stantly point to the “great English journals” as models
for the despised Australian press. Well, here is the
greatest of English journals convicted of an offence
more grave than any I have ever heard alleged
against any Australian newspaper of any position at all.
I say convicted, because the Times admits the charge and
does not even offer a word of explanation or palliation.
On the night when Mr. Redmond made this revelation it
moved Mr. John Morley (one of the ablest, most cultured
and most self-guarded men in the House, and the pro-
bable successor of Mr. Gladstone in the leadership of the
Liberal party) to declare that “ if it were true it loaded
the Times and its conductors with something which he, as
an experienced journalist, did not hesitate to call the
deepest mfamy.” The next day, when the Times ad-
mitted the charge without so much as a formal expression
of regret, Mr. Morley withdrew the qualification “if it
were true,” and deliberately repeated his accusation
against the great leading journal of having been “ guilty
of the deepest infamy."
And yet the Times is held up to public admiration
in Australia by such papers as the S.M. Herald
and Melbourne Argus as the “greatest paper in
the world,” whose daily appearance is the very
breath of life of the unbounded Universe. Pro-
bably these papers praise the Times because it is
convenient to justify by the quotation of its
example such little things as the suppression of
undesirable information, the curtailment of inop-
portune speeches, and the repression of inappro-
priate individuals.
4
TUe “Rtot” at Adamstown.
One day last week a small disturbance took place
at Adamstown (N.S.W.), when a number of angry
miners stood around and used language in the face
of the police and other constituted authorities.
The language was less forcible, it is true, than
that of the Assembly in its calmer moments, and
was incalculably more gentlemanly in tone than
the screech of the representative Chamber when
its angry passions are up, but, nevertheless, the
Parkes Government at once took alarm, and
about 24 high military officers and one private
were sent up with an expensive cannon and
other panoply of glorious war, and bearing orders
to plunge into the gory circumstances of strife
whenever the case made it advisable to do so.
When they arrived at the scene of carnage, how-
ever, the belligerents had gone home to tea and
there was no one about. This affair has been
dignified by the name of a riot, because in addi-
tion to the men who are said to have made
the row a number of others looked on-
just as they do in Parliament, and the
prisoners who were arrested in connection
with it were run in as rioters and individuals of a
dangerous and revolutionary character ; and when
an application was made for bail the police rose
and protested against letting the raging tiger loose
on his own recognisances. Nevertheless, three of
these drinkers of blood were released upon good
security, whereupon the following letter was fired
by Parkes at the offending justices
Colonial Sscrelary's Office, Sydney, September 20, 1888.
—The attention of the Government has been called to the
course you adopted at the police court, Newcastle, on
the 19th inst. in granting bail to the three persons charged
with inciting others to riotous proceedings at Adamstown.
Bv the direction of the Colonial Secretary I enclose a copy
Of a letter from his Honor the Chief Justice on the im-
propriety of granting bail ip any such case as the very
serious one under notice. I am further directed to point
Out that the first duty of a justice of the peace is at all
times to conserve the interests of peace, to support all in
authority in the maintenance of the law, and to do his
utmost to preserve the good order of society. In this case
the persons offending voluntarily put themselves in the
wrono- as enemies of law and order, and any social position
which they might be presumed to hold only aggravated
tae offence. The officer of the Governmsnt prosecuting
very properly stated his strong objection to bail being
granted, on the general ground tnat such indulgence
would assist in frustrating the ends of jus ■ ice. This com-
munication is, therefore, made to you to afford you the
opportunity of offering aDy explanation which you may
deem advisable. (Signed) Critchett Walker, Princ'pal
Under-Secretary.
This person in brief authority, named Walker—
a good soul, who only says what he is told to say—
is backed up by a lengthy deliverance from Chief
Justice Darley, the same judicial authority who
recommended that Australian Nationalism should
be “stamped out ” by the heavy boots of military
or any other available form of violence, and in the
course of this statement he says :
With respect to hail having been allowed to the parsons
who were yesterday charged with riot, I have to say that
fcha allowing of bail in such a case is a matter for the dis-
cretion of the justices. I am, however, of opinion that in
the case in question, that discretion has been wrongly ex-
ercised, and that if bail had been refused, as I think it
should have been, and thereupon an application made to
me, I would, in view of the dangerous nature of the riot
in question and the probable injury to the public interests,
have refused to interfere with the discretion of the
justices in refusing bail.
These two solid utterances are endorsed, as usual,
by the voice of “Proputty” demanding the instant
removal of the justices by whom bail was
granted, and the case on behalf of “order’ is
loud —and miserably weak. For though the
police arrested a number of alleged rioters
they had, up to the date of this deliverance,
brought forward not a scintilla of evidence
against any one of the prisoners, and even in
granting a remand the bench had no justification
except the bare word of sundry constables whose
reliability they had no reason to estimate as being
any higher than the average run of police veracity.
The language used by the Colonial Secretary s
understrapper, in describing the accused as
“ enemies of law and order,” is an outrage upon
every principle of justice, and Sir 1 reijerick
Darley’s lofty utterance about the “ dangerous
nature of the riot in question ” is another leap in
the dark. So far as the prisoners were concerned
it was not even proved in court that there was a riot
at all, still less that they had beenengaged in it, and
the action of the police in demanding that the ac-
cused should be treated with the utmost rigour of
the law, was not supported by sufficient testimony
to justify their arrest, still less their further deten-
tion, The “ force,” in short, demand the privilege
of arresting any citizen in a promiscuous
fashion and keeping him in confinement —
if necessary for weeks—on the strength
of their own bare assertion that he should
be kept in confinement; and having thus got
their prisoner pent within four walls they proceed
at their leisure to get up a case against him, which
he, from the mere fact of being a prisoner, is
generally unable to disprove. The contest is
maintained by all the resources of the law on one
hand and on the other by a single man who is
carefully shut out from any effectual means of
collecting evidence to prove his innocence, and it
is probably the manifest advantages of this system
which make the police, as a rule, so strongly averse
to the granting of bail and leads them to use their
utmost exerbions, when a sensational case is in pro-
gress, to keep the accused shut up, and, as far as
possible, helpless. The merest rudiments of jus-
tice, therefore, demand that bail should not be
lightly refused to any prisoner, even when there
are strong grounds for believing him guilty, and
the monstrous claim of the police authorities that
it should be peremptorily withheld when they have
not brought forward a shadow of proof against
the accused is worthy rather of the code of the
Inquisition than of the procedure of modern
civilisation. Justice, if such a thing does
exist anywhere in Australia, demanded that the
Adamstown prisoners should have been instantly
and absolutely released when the police, on their
first appearance in court, failed to show any cause
for their presence there. Ever since Australia
began, the liberty, and even the lives, of her citi-
zens have been left practically at the mercy of the
ignorant “cop” from the bogs, and it is more
than time that this monstrous system should be
abolished. If civil and criminal law are to stand
on the same basis the plaintiff in a libel action
should be allowed to lock up the defendant, and
then proceed at his leisure to prove his claim to
heavy damages, but if such a course were even
suggested its atrocious injustice would at once be
demonstrated by a roar from the outraged organs
of Property which would arise and split the listen-
ing heavens. Or even if bail were refused in a
criminal case when a man of wealth and social
standing was placed in the dock the earth would
be shaken by the note of anguish which would rise
upon the air. But then the alleged “rioters” of
Adamstown are not men of property and standing,
and anyone who can’t see the difference which this
involves is unfit to be Colonial Secretary of New
South Wales.
4
Gimlet Morality.
The Australian Christian World recently
contained a scurrilous attack on Colonel Robert
Ingersoll, the eminent American agnostic, a re-
print from an American source. Doubtless our
sectarian contemporary was unaware when attri-
buting to a man who has a world-wide reputation
as a clean-living, philosophical humanitarian the
career of a bar-bummer, that every assertion made
in the article they have reprinted was disproved
in the New York Truth seeker at least six
months ago. If further evidence be de-
manded, the very last number of that journal
to hand contains a description of Ingersoll’s
home life that effectually upsets the charges
of debauchery and larrikinism with which
he is now charged. The mere bringing of
such charges, however, is a confession of weakness.
The backslidings of clergymen, church deacons,
and Sunday-school teachers will not be admitted
by Christians as evidence against the verity of
Christian doctrines, and, from a similar stand-
point, even if the charges brought against Ingeb-
soll were true, it would in no way invalidate the
vigour and logical soundness of his writings. No
act of his, no matter how immoral, can save Judge
Field and Mr. Gladstone from the overwhelm-
ing defeats sustained in the controversies lately
carried on in the columns of the North American
Review. This new style of attacking public men
is simply a revival of the ancient method
of disposing of over-powerful enemies by means of
assassination. The arguments of a disputant are
incontrovertible, therefore a routed antagonist
proceeds to demolish his reputation from a dis-
tance, convinced that the ocean is sufficient shield
against the unpleasant consequences that might
otherwise eventuate. He that would prove the
immorality of an enemy in order to impair his
influence must of necessity be devoid of true
morality himself; thus the attacks directed
against a well-known man like Ingersoll usually
recoil on the heads of his assailants, leaving the
man attacked unsmirched, and, if possible, in a
stronger position than ever.
4
“ Reasonably Supposed to be Stolen.”
Thursday Island (Q.) is a spot where a Sabbath
calm is accustomed to brood, but, like Todgers’
Boarding-house, it is ferocious when its angry
passions are roused. One morning recently a
strange sound was heard to mingle with the wash
of the sunlit sea, and presently the “cop” of
those tropical wilds ran in a Hindoo mercantile
person who had been painting the settlement red,
contrary to the peace of nations and the dogmas
of the Church. He was shortly afterwards con-
signed to a murky dungeon, and his clothes being
dragged off him and shaken, several valuable
pearls dropped out. Next morning he protested
in amazement that he had bought the pearls in
the usual way, and that he lived by dealing in
such things, but all the same he was found guilty
of “being in possession of proper by supposed to
have been stolen,” and was fined £5, while the
jewels were ordered to be sold for the benefit of
the Cooktown Hospital. Nobody else seemed to
own the pearls; nobody claimed them or could
give any account of them; and there was no evi-
dence whatever to show that they belonged to
anybody except the heathen who had so injudi-
ciously gone on the spree in a Christian land ; but
still that plundered stranger is deprived of about
£5O worth of property because a policeman who
knows nothing about his affairs “ supposes ” that
he shouldn’t have it. If that policeman were _ to
let loose the same copious faculty of supposition
upon a wealthy Queenslander he would inevitably
be sacked and probably prosecuted as well, but
when he strikes a man who doesn’t own a
large bank balance, he can deprive him of every-
thing he possesses, down to his clothes, by “ sup-
posing,” without the slightest evidence, that they
have been stolen, and he can also have him fined
for possessing his own property, and imprisoned if
the fine isn’t forthcoming. Also, when he has de-
prived him of everything by supposing that it has
been stolen, and his goods, for want of a
claimant, have reverted to some convenient
charitable institution, a favourable opportunity
then presents itself for running him in as a vagrant
and fining him again for the crime of not having
anything to pay a fine with, or else putting him in
prison as a punishment for not having any other
place to put himself in; and when he comes out
of gaol without a cent he is liable to be arrested
again for not having a cent, or, if by any chance
he has a cent, he can be fined some more and the
stray copper confiscated on the ground that it is
“ reasonably supposed to have been stolen.” The
barbarous fiction which holds that a man is liable
to punishment for owning anything which, to the
intelligent eye of any passing policeman on the
look-out for “another sthripe,” looks as if it
didn’t belong to him, is common to all the Austra-
lian colonies, and a day seldom passes without
some exarnpl j like the following, which is taken at
random from a Sydney paper :
At the Water Police Court yesterday, before Mr.
Fisher, Thomas Blakf. was sent to prison for 14 days for
having a milk-jug in his possession reasonably supposed
to have been stolen.
This simply means that Thomas Blake looked
like a man who didn’t own a milk-jug, and for
wearing this aspect he was sent up for two weeks.
Consequently it follows that a man who owns a
milk-jug wears a different aspect from the man
who has to keep his milk in a bucket or an old
hat, and it further ensues that the somnolent
“ cop ” can tell at a single glance whether a certain
man is the owner of a milk-jug or not. This
supernatural sagacity is the common property of
every member of the “foorce” and comes natural
to him. He isn’t examined or measured for it
when he enters the service, but it arrives along
with the uniform, and in the course of his patient
wanderings in quest of the pie which grows in
cookey’s pleasant bowers he carries the afflatus
round with him, and under its inspiriting
influence he runs in anyone who incurs his
official displeasure. The charge, too, possesses
advantages which attach to no other ever invented.
It doesn’t require any proof, for it doesn’t assert
that the prisoner has done anything; it merely
charges him with someone else thinking that he
has done something, and as he isn’t responsible
for what anyone else thinks, and can exercise no
control over such a variable quantity, it matters
very little whether he offers a defence or leaves it
alone. As far as ordinary logic is concerned there
seems little difference between sending a prisoner
to gaol for someone else having thought some-
thing and locking him up for another man having
done something, but Australian law, like its
British progenitor, is innocent of logic and desti-
tute of sense. So the old indictment plods on
and does good service, and seedy men who are so
rash as to own anything get terms varying from
seven days up to three months on the affidavit of
a muddle-headed policeman who spells his name
phonetically, and swears that he doesn’t know
to whom the article in question belongs, and didn’t
see anyone steal it, but he doesn’t think that it
looks as if it were the property of its ostensible
owner. There is something broad and compre-
hensive about the statutes of this alleged Christian
land. They provide equally for sending the poor
man to gaol because he owns something and be-
cause he doesn’t own anything; it matters little
which way the charge runs for he goes to gaol
with equal facility in either case. And yet,
somehow, these same statutes don’t seem to pro-
vide for sending the rich man to gaol at all.
♦
Lord Carington and Australian Art.
Dear Bulletin, —I read that the Sydney Art
Society’s Annual Exhibition was opened by Lord
Carington, and I feel intensely disgusted thereat.
Last year His Excellency was invited to perform
this harmless function but positively declined.
Perhaps the Art Society has grown in importance
and he has altered his mind. But how can any
body of men after having been snubbed on one
occasion condescend to grovel on another and
then then talk about Australian art ? Australian
art, I take it, is national, and how anything calling
itself national can owe its inspiration to the yawn
or the smile of an Imperial figure-head I am at a
loss to imagine. Have we no men of culture or
intelligence in our midst, men with some claim to
be styled representative Australians, who would
be prepared to perform the ceremony of declaring
the Arb Society’s Exhibition open, and who would
moreover perform it with a certain amount of
ease and happiness so conspicuously absent in
anything the Baron throws the vice-regal shadow
upon? Where are Dr. G ARRAN, Mr. W. B.
Dalley, or Sir Henry Parkes? One is the
father of the Australian press, another the most
splendid example in Australia of what culture
can do for a man, the third, one of the ablest and
oldest of Australian politicians. Each is a ready
and brilliant speaker, and each is a man of rare
gifts and attainments in his own line. No, the
Art Society must have the vice-regal person, be-
cause it is fashionable, dontcherknow. Now, as a
matter of fact, Lord Carington repre-
sents two classes fond of being considered
“ quite the thing—ah.” The official class
to which he himself belongs and the snob class
which flocks after his coat-tails. He intends to go
to England as soon as he can manage it and leave
the “ blawsted cawlonies ” for ever, and be sure he
intends to trouble himself with nobody’s Austra-
lian canvases. The snob section of the fashionable
world over which he presides is too ignorant and
too mean to patronise art, and artists gain nothing
by fl attering or toadying to it. Let any artist with
a great conception paint something which appeals
to the national spirit of the Australian people
and I am convinced the parby which is proud to
designate itself by the national name will buy it
if it has to pawn the Association’s furniture to do
so, but an Australian art which panders to the
snobocracy and endeavours to flourish beneath an
Imperial yawn is a misnomer and a stultification,
and as such will never gain a footing in this
country.—Yours, Australian Nationalist.
Practically, the Newcastle mine-owners are being
compelled to acknowledge that the claims of the
miners are just, and there are many signs
that they will not be such fools as to lose the
trade of their city rather than pay the wages of
their men. Many of the non associated collieries
are preparing to resume work, and some of the
members of the association are evidently tired
of it. Meanwhile, despite the efforts of the daily
press, the real facts are creeping out, and they
show, beyond all doubt, that the miners have not
found their daily labour particularly profitable.
The highly extolled wages now prove to have
averaged 10 s. a day for five days per week,
that is £2 10s. per week, out of which
the miner must find powder, fuse, and
tallow. Even without these deductions £2
103. per week would be no wonderful remunera-
tion for the mo3t laborious, the most monotonous,
and the most dangerous of all human occupations.
The fact that the mine-owners easily obtain five
and six shillings per ton for small coal is an amply
sufficient justification for the miners’ claim to be
paid for hewing it, and the capitalists’ com-
plaint that the prices named in the miners’ agree-
ment are from sd. to 7d. per ton beyond those the
mine-owners offer is conclusive evidence of the
truth of the assertion that the mine-owners
attempt to throw upon the workmen all losses
caused by inequalities in the coal-seams. If 20,000
miners from foreign countries were brought here
the mine-owners would be in the same diffi-
culty within six months, provided they per-
severed in their present courses. Human
nature likes to see all men tarred with the same
brush, and whether the hewing-rate were reduced
to a penny per ton or raised to a pound the miner
who had to take out refuse as well as coal would
expect to be paid for his extra labour. If one
seam of coal is less valuable than another by rea-
son of its faults the owner and not the miner
must bear the loss. Meanwhile, the owners would
do well to settle their difficulties with their work-
men before the coal-trade departs and the coal-
miners follow it.
+
In his recent address to a branch of the A.N.A.,
Melbourne, Judge Williams said he heartily de-
spised such Australians by birth as do not object
to pay a guinea per head to go to the theatre to
have a sniff at Governors and Governors’ wives.”
Some creeping thing, signing itself “Anti-Fenian-
ism,” has dipped its tail in the ink-bottle and
written out this overpowering problem for the
Argus editor :—“ Suppose the words uttered by
Mr. Justice Williams against His Excellency had
been printed as the opinions of a newspaper,
and that an action had been brought against
the offending journal?” This is madness.
Stand forward, “Antj-Fenianism”—you gibbering
lunatic, you—and listen to The Bulletin's
opinion. We hold that the man of any nationality
who would pay twopence extra for the mere privi-
lege of sitting within brick-throwing distance of
all the Governors on earth ought to be boiled. We
are also of opinion that if honest democrats stayed
away from the theatre on “ vice-regal command
nights” the Triumvirate’s obtrusive “loyalty”
would go bung, andjthey would pay Governors to
be sniffed somewhere else. Finally, we solemnly
assert that you, “ Anti-Fenianism,” ought to be
chopped into small bits and used for poisoning
cats. Now, hurry up with them actions. The
offending journal is prepared to meet its Gov.
♦
“ Don't nail his ears to the pump !” If any serious
disturbance did take place between the Newcastle
miners and the “ military,” there is no doubt that
the Sydney Press will not be altogether
unblameable. The other day the Syd-
ney D.T., in reporting strike movements,
headed a column with seven captions thus:
—“ The Colliers’ Strike,” “ Another Scene
at the New Lambton Pit,” “ Workmen Protected
by Soldiers and Police,” “The Miners have a
Wholesome Fear of the Military,” “‘Discretion
the Better Part of Valour,’” “More Arrests for
Rioting,” and “ Work at Some Mines Resumed.”
This is practically a challenge to the miners to
riot—to try it on and see what they would get.
“The Miners have a Wholesome Fear of the
Military,” “‘Discretion the Better Part of
Valour ’” ! This is how agitation is fanned and
violence promoted. Let the Sydney DT. look
to it!
4
An outrageous charge on the Victorian revenue is
that of £6OO subsidy annually paid to the lucky
individual who runs the Parliament pub. lie
pays no rent; fittings, crockery, and glass are
found for him, gas is c/ratis, and his thirsty cus-
tomers ante-up (or owe) for everything they
order. And, as though that were not a good
enough line, the State grog-seller receives a £6
bonus for each day that he keeps his restaurant
open. The Honourable Tommy Bent, by the way,
is in favour of increasing the £6OO vote, on the
ground that “ now and again there would
be a count-out or an unexpected adjourn-
ment, and the caterer was left with dinner
for 50 or 60 members on his hands.” Now,
let us double up the burly Bent with a hard
fact, straight from the shoulder. The Parliamen-
tary dinner is 2s. (id. per head, so if the caterer
had to throw 50 superfluous dinners to the Parlia-
mentary dog every day during the session his loss
would be more than covered. As for the liquor,
that doesn’t turn bad with keeping. Although a
number of members criticised the refreshment
item when it was under discussion the other day,
not one of them had a head clear enough to tackle
the figures in a practical way.
♦_
Some months ago Mr. John Norton, who poses
as a Protectionist, went to Lithgow apparently in
two capacities : firstly as the representative of one
or more Freetrade daily newspapers and secondly
as an ostensibly Protectionist orator. Having
made a Protectionist speech which was calculated,
had Mr. Norton been a man of influence, to split
the Protectionist camp in two, he or somebody
else reported it at length for one or more of the
Freetrade newspapers with which he appeared to
be connected. Mr. Norton is now in the New-
castle district posing as the miners’ friend,
but we notice that the evening newspaper
he appears to represent most scrupulously
avoids making any straight-out declaration
of its sentiments with respect to the quarrel
between masters and men. It is just about
time that the workmen of New South Wales
considered these matters in all their political bear-
ings. A newspaper which, while professing Free-
trade principles, puts forward an avowed Protec-
tionist as its representative and shows itself not
unwilling to profit by any kudos which its re-
presentative may gain in his private capacity by
talking Protection while feeding on Freetrade, is
unworthy of the political support of any square
man. Mr. Norton’s position as a Protectionist who
ostensibly represents a Freetrade paper, makes him
an object of equal suspicion to both sides, and if he
wishes to avoid being repudiated all round he
would do well to define his attitude. Either he
belongs to one or other of the great political
parties of New South Wales, or he forms a party
by himself and leads a ragged regiment of which
the head and middle and tail is John Norton. If
this latter is the case Mr. Norton deserves to be
congratulated on the versatile and double-join ted
nature of his small but compact organisation ; if it
is not the case then we ask Mr. Norton gently
but firmly to state what he is politically, and
where he thinks he is going to.
It is a mistake to suppose that Judge Noel,
who sentenced Kitt to three years’ for four
boots, is altogether callous and hard-hearted.
Only a short time back one Morey, a clerk
in the Queensland National Bank, was found
guilty of embezzlement. Judge Noel, in
this case, magnanimously passed over in
silence the appalling crime of theft from his em-
ployer, of which Morey was convicted. The
“gentle rain from heaven,” on this occasion, came
down in a perfect shower, and the prisoner was at
once released under the terms of the Offenders’
Probation Act. One cannot, of course, help won-
dering why the unfortunate Kitt wasn’t subjected
to a similar deluge. It is true, no doubt, that
Morey was a well-brought-up young man, son of
a high and respected official, with whom the com-
munity sincerely sympathises in the affliction
brought upon him by his erring son, while Kitt
was only an obscure salesman at a store, with no
education and no influential parents ; but we don’t
for a moment suppose such considerations as these
could have any influence on the decision of such a
man as Supreme Court Judge Noel. Obviously,
there must be something we don’t understand,
some subtle working of the Judge’s mind, some
nice distinctions on points of law to account for
this apparently gross miscarriage of justice.
Within the last year several presumably sane
correspondents have suggested in the columns of
the press that an expedition should be seat out to
look for traces of Leichhardt, and a small scrap
of paper which has just come to hand at this
office states that another effort is going to be
made in this direction. We ask the authors of
this project, firmly but respectfully, if they
imagine Leichhardt to be immortal ? It is now
40 years since he disappeared, and even if he
could be found after that lapse of time he would
probably be seriously decayed. Besides, Leich-
hardt seems to us to monopolise the searching
business to the utter exclusion of other gentle-
men who haven’t been heard of for s me time.
Manasseh, for instance, is a person whom the
public seem to have lost the run of, and traces of
Ham and Maher-shalalhashbaz might be dis-
covered on careful inspection. They are as likely
to be found as Leichhardt, and when found would
be quite as interesting.


Ecclesiastical <• lion Is and Body •Snatchers*
The hideous burlesque at the Waverley Cemetery
in connection with the “Christian burial” of
Henry Deniehy’s bones, and at which the Handy
Andy of New South Wales political life appro-
priately figured as “first grave-digger,” recalls,
rather awkwardly for the ecclesiastical dispensers
of double-distilled damnation in Sydney, one
or two historic dark-lantern proceedings of a par-
ticularly odious nature. The name of Dan. would
seem to be a most unfortunate one, as far as the
“ Christian burial ” business is concerned. Two
possessors of that name— Dan. Deniehy and Dan.
Egan— were, as the elegant phrase in vogue
among a certain class of sweet and gentle Chris-
tian gentlemen has it, “ buried like dogs.” Both
were politicians, and both incurred the displeasure
of Holy Mother Church, with the result that they
were accorded the public distinction after death
of being ecclesiastically damned, body and soul,
their poor clay being denied interment in
“consecrated ground.” If Deniehy and Egan
were flung over the garden wall of the blessed
after death, as we are told they were, “ simply for
mistakes committed in public life,” we shiver to
think of the possible fate of a certain living poli-
tician who is also a Daniel.
• * #
The outrage on Dan Egan’s body was one which
stirred up the whole Australian people, and to their
credit, be it said, the intelligent and liberal-
minded lay members of the Catholic Church,
headed by Dalley and Edward Butler, joined
in the general outburst of indignation and horror
which that brutal violation of the commonest
feelings of humanity and decency provoked.
Egan was actually buried with all the “ rites ” of
the Church. Priestly benedictions were mumbled
oyer his coffin, and holy-water freely sprinkled on
his grave. A day or two afterwards the authorities
at St. Mary’s pretended to discover that they had
made a mistake in giving “ Christian burial ” to
Egan, and straightway the benedictions were re-
called and replaced by curses, the saving effect of
the holy-water was destroyed by a copious ladling
out of fire and brimstone, and in the dead of
the night the ecclesiastical body-snatchers tore
open the grave, and carrying off the coffin flung
the corpse into the “ unconsecrated ” corner of the
graveyard set apart for criminals and outlaws.
• * •
In Deniehy’s case the “ Christian burial ” was
denied, and “ brilliant little Dan,” the scholar
and the orator, was laid to rest after life’s fitful
fever among poor abandoned wretches who had
worn the gyves of the convict, and who were
finally swung out of existence from the gaol
scaffold- In Deniehy’s case the action of the
“ Church authorities ” was just the reverse of that
adopted with regard to Egan. Poor Egan was
solemnly buried, and then brutally rooted up from
his grave and thrown into a rubbish-heap.
Deniehy is “buried like a dog,” is allowed to re-
main in a dishonoured grave for well nigh 30
years, and is then taken up, and, with the
strangest of mockeries, is accorded first-class re-
ligious burial in “consecrated ground”—his pale,
bright spirit meanwhile, we presume, being sum-
moned from Hades by the priests who, in their
sublime charity, consigned it there after his inex-
pressibly sad and pitiable death.
• * *
The stupid bungling over Michael Fitz-
patricks remains was the one dark blot on
Archbishop Vaughan’s administration, though it
is due to the memory of the dead prelate to say
that he was not so much responsible for it as two
fanatic priests of his Church, whom Car-
dinal Moran, later on, had sense enough to rele-
gate to becoming obscurity. Michael Fitz-
patrick was not considered worthy of Christian
burial, and though his family were graciously
allowed the privilege of interring the body in the
grave they had purchased in the Petersham
Catholic Cemetery the presence of a priest at the
ceremony was point-blank refused. The scan-
dalous treatment of the remains of a man of high
character, who was universally respected, and
who had never “kicked over the traces ” of his
Church, raised a perfect howl of indignation, and
even the Roman Catholic newspaper, the Free-
man's Journal —inspired, it is said, by Mr Dalley
—which, as in Egan’s case, had the pluck to
speak out straight, printed a fiery denun-
ciation of the outrage on religion and humanity.
What was the result ? A week passed and a
priest was despatched from St. Mary’s to bless
Fitzpatrick’s grave and pour out prayers
for “ the repose of his soul ” —a soul, by
the way, which had been “damned,” ecclesiasti-
cally at all events, only a week previously.
* * *
It is to the credit of the Roman Catholic body
that in the three cases to which we have alluded
the best of their public men stood up, and, doubt-
less, at the risk of their own “ excommunication ”
in the interests of humanity and charity and in
stout and manly opposition to clerical brutality
and malevolence. One man —and we make the
acknowledgment with all the more pleasure be-
cause we have expressed disapproval so often of
other public acts of his—made himself conspicuous
as the consistent critic and censor of the cowardly
and inhuman “persecution of the dead,” as
it was once characterised, and that man
was Mr. Dalley. It was a miserably mean
thing of the writer of the letter in the
Herald last week —of course the letter was
'anonymous—to accuse him of being the wire-
puller in the cases of Deniehy and Fitzpatrick,
and, in point of fact, with having used his influence
with the Church people to pay out after death
two political antagonists who had made themselves
offensive to him while alive. And if we
were disposed to believe the truth of the
charge to which the Herald lent itself by
publishing the letter in question, we would
instantly dismiss it from serious considera-
tion in the remembrance of Mr. Dalley's
well-known attachment to poor little Dan,
his affectionate devotion to him almost to
the day of his death, his faithful guardianship of
his memory, and his innumerable acts of sympathy
and kindness towards Deniehy’s mother and his
family. Messrs. Fitzpatrick and Dalley, too, were
intimate friends, and though a breach did occur
once through some words spoken in the heat of
political strife those in a position to speak with
authority say that the frank public apology made
by Dalley when Fitzpatrick became Colonial Sec-
retary removed all ill-feeling and renewed a friend-
ship which was never afterwards disturbed. As in
Deniehy’s case, Dalley showed a most gentle
consideration for those poor “Micky Fitz"’ had
left behind to do battle with the world. So far from
controlling the ecclesiastical thunders and having
the direction of the “damnation” departmentinhis
hands, we have reason to believe that W.B.D. had
more than one close shave in the long ago of being
himself excommunicated on account of his con-
stant preaching of perfect toleration and liberality,
and his demands for the total exclusion of the
clerical element from politics. Cardinal Moran
has not yet tried his hand at the outraging of
public feeling by the perpetration of church-yard
horrors, and it is to be hoped the grave mistakes
(this is not a joke) of Folding and Vaughan will,
at least, warn him against the employment of this
cold-blooded form of ecclesiastical tyranny and
malignity.
The Argus has published a plan of the first
ground allotments sold in Melbourne, June 1,
1837, giving the original purchase price and the
present estimated value of each lot. From this
it seems that a site at the intersection of Collins
and Swanston streets was knocked down to a Mr.
Henry Howie for £45. It is now priced at
£493,500, and, says the Argus: “An important
point is that the property has remained in the
possession of one family since it was bought.” An
important point, truly ! A point which should
penetrate the thickest skull among the drowsy
simpletons who can see no moral wrong in any
legal “right,’’and who regard Henry George as
the dangerous author of a book they wouldn’t
think of reading, sir. Let us examine that point,
Fifty years ago Mr. Howie bought a plot
of earth for £45. Other men bought sur-
rounding plots and erected shanties thereon in
compliance with the terms of sale. Natural con-
ditions being favourable, this collection of shanties
became the nucleus of a town. Emigrants from
England and colonists from New South Wales and
Tasmania poured into the recently-settled district,
took up more plots, and built more shanties.
These first inhabitants of Melbourne prospered in
their several occupations, not because they pro-
duced wealth from their freehold soil, but because
they obtained handsome payment for commercial
services rendered and social wants supplied to the
actual producers afar off. An important seaport
town was the inevitable outcome of a steady influx
of settlers to the interior, and Melbourne grew to
be that town. The discovery of gold some 80
miles distant assured to it a splendid future.
Thousands of men came there to spend the ready
money they had dug out of the goldfields, other
thousands came there with a view to doing busi-
ness-pretty business some of it was !—with the
enriched population, and thus Mr. Howie’s £45
allotment became a most desirable site for trading
purposes. Circumstances over which he had no
control made it the most 'desirable site in all Mel-
bourne,_ and had Mr. Howie departed to Tim-
buctoo in 1837, leaving behind him the few pounds
necessary to keep his shanty in proper repair for
the next 50 years, that site would still have been
worth half-a-million sterling to-day. Whether
the deceased gentleman contributed much, little,
or nothing to the sum total of labour done in Aus-
tralia is beside the question. He was allowed to
buy outright for £45 a certain quantity of dirt,
which the New South Wales Government of 1837
was holding on behalf of the people. And if the
people now wanted to repurchase that dirt they
would have to pay to the family of Mr. Howie
£493,500 of unearned increment on their relative’s
bargain.
' ♦
The lamentation of Zachary Pearce Pocock, in
the correspondence column of the S.M. Herald
Having oocasion to ask for some penny stamps at the
General Post Office in George-str&t, Sydney, I was sup-
plied with some coloured pieces of paper which to me, and
I have no doubt to many others, are extremely offensive
both in appearance and design, and only fit to be classed
with the carvings on the Pitt-street front of the Post
Office, the heathen gods, dogs, wolves, or whatever deities
they are intended to represent, on the obelisk at the
Bathurst-street entrance to Hyde Park, the’narrow road-
ways in the Centennial Park, and other similar monstro-
sities. Why the Queen’s head should be wiped off the
poßtage-stamp is probably best known to those who
banished the Exhibition’ which ought to have been held in
Sydney to Melbourne. My weak intellect would have
thought that it would have been time enough to scrape
the Queen’s head off postage-stamp 3 when Australasia
became a republic, with Melbourne for its capital—of
course supposing that the Chinese, or some other Euro-
pean Power, does not takei possession of the whole con-
tinent, or part of it. We could then please ourselves as to
the nature of postage stamps, grotesque figures, and
heathen divinities, which should mark the second century
of our existence—supposing that strikes, bad land-laws,
and a few other obstacles had not destroyed trade, com-
merce, and prosperity altogether.
From the above it will be observed among other
things that Zachary Pearce Pocock has been
gifted with considerable powers of expression.
The New South Wales postage-stamps remind
him of heathen gods, dogs, wolves, the Centennial
Park footpaths, and the Bathurst-street obelisk,
and similarly his letter recalls to cur mind dead
cats, ash-heaps, hash, the Soudan Contingent, the
Sydney tramway system, the smells of the Yarra,
the bad state of the Fitzroy bridge at Rock-
hampton (Q.), the early Cochin China rooster in
the next yard, and the awful quality of the beer
supplied at Wombat’s Misery in the island of
Tasmania. We don’t know exactly why it re-
minds us of these things but probably Zachary
Pearce Pocock is in the same predicament. But
the real cause of Zachary’s woe is that he no
longer licks the .Queen’s head on the penny stamps
as of yore. It is this sorrow preying on what he
candidly states to be an already weak intellect —
and he ought to. know best—which makes Mm
fancy that China is in Europe and then mix him-
self up in a holocaust of murdered syntax, and
battered verbs that lie down fainting in the dust
after a frenzied but futile struggle to agree with
their nominatives. Somehow the Australian
“loyalist” is always innocent of grammar. Per-
haps he never learnt any; perhaps it is impossible
to grovel properly with only nine parts of speech
and he wants ten ; possibly—but no, that would
be too awful.
+.
The Chinese question is solving itself fast in
Western Queensland. Hitherto the shearer ex-
pelled the agony from the shearing-shed, but
when he drew his cheque he walked to the nearest
township, looked around for the sign of Ah Hung
or Hung Ah, threw his swag on the Mongol’s
verandah, and melted the cheque on the beef,
beans, and vitriol of the countryman of him he had
just kicked from the shed. Nor was the digger
on his native heath a whit less illogical. He
would break the Chow’s neck who competed with
him in the gully, but when he wanted a billy and
a blanket he dealt at a Chinese store. Now,
if the news be true—and if it is not true
now it soon must be—the logic of consistency is
tying all whitemen with one string, and if one
works or fights the whole bunch are in the middle
of it. The Shearers’ Union drives John from the
shed, the New Workmen’s Union repulses him
when he seeks the township, and the Amalga-
mated Trades Union declines to touch him. Then
all these are being affiliated, and so Ah Hung’s
only customer will be Hung Ah, and Hung Ah’s
only customer will be Ah Hung, and this will be
as stale, flat, and unprofitable a kind of dealing
as taking money out of the right pocket and put-
ting it in the left. Thus the agony, like the
shearer’s cheque, will cease to be.
+
A leading article (supposed to be written by Mr.
Halley) in the Freeman’s Journal (N.S.W.)
makes the plea for Canon Kemmis, of Sydney, that
the lecturer stands to the original writer as the
engraver does to the painter. The plea is well
worked' out, but it just misses the fact that
the composition which the Canon copied was
itself a lecture. By the way, a case, Watt v
Cameron, was tried lately in the London Court)
and the jury found that Mr. Watt “ had appro-
priated largely from Mr. Daly’s book.” Whereon
the Publisher’s Gazette says:—
It is not exaggeration to say that half the philanthropic
(save the mark !) and “ emigrational ” lectures delivered
in this oountry are “cribbed” from responsible authors.
The Sydney D.T.’s “special correspondent” in
England is running that sober penny journal into
the utterance of wild, unaccustomed truths re-
garding the miseries of Ireland. Only three
short years ago the Telegraph would have fainted
on top of its own printing-machine rather than
have spoken “ disrespectfully ” of the powers that
be, and now—
I have been in England only a month, but I never even
faintly realised before what an impenetrable icy barrier
insular exclusiveness and traditional prejudice can build
up round this great English nation. I have realised now
with what callous cruelty your average Englishman wfll
put his heel on the neck of the wretched Irishman at his
door, while he stretches out the hand of welcome and
succour to the infinitely less wretched stranger in India or
Africa or Asia. I have discovered that your middle-class
Englishman—the man who votes Conservative or Liberal-
Unionist—has no conception of governing Ireland except
by martial law. It has come down to him as a tradition,
a part of his political inheritance. With every other part
of the British dominions he is prepared to compromise,
to make concession if his will is resisted, to con-
fer larger and larger measures of self-government
where the older forms of rule become irksome. But it is
a cardinal point of his political faith that with Ireland it
ever has been and ever mu6t be different If the Irish
murmur they must be threatened, if they protest they
must be coerced, if they resist they must be thrust in
gaol, and if they appeal they must have their sentences
doubled. _ He knows no alternative for this policy except
the historical expedient of submerging the island in the
Atlantic Ocean for 24 hours. God knows where it will all
end. The cup of Ireland’s bitterness has been filled by
the Balfour coercion policy and the Crimes Act. Free-
dom, such as we have in Australia, has no existence in
Ireland. Liberty in Ireland is a poor, scourged, manacled
creature, attired in prison garb, with a gag in her mouth
and a knotted cord round her throat that is being every
daymore tightly drawn almost to the pointof strangulation.
Every week we hear of Irish newspaper editors being
flung into gaol for articles that are mildness itself com-
pared to those I have read on the same subject in leading
journals in Australia, while Irish public men attend meet-
ings with a Government spy at tbeir elbow taking notes,
and are arrested in their beds or at t'ae very threshold of
the House of Commons for speeches no more “seditious”
or “ violent” tban many I have heard delivered by lead-
ing politicians in Australia. Public life in Ireland is sur-
rounded by a Bystem of galling espionage ; public writers
carry on their work under the very shadow of the prison
walls, and even the political liberty whioh permits the
people to send representatives to the National Parliament
is tempered by the tyrannical power of a Tory Govern-
ment to disfranchise an obnoxious constituency with the
aid of a machine-like majority or to thrust a troublesome
representative into gaol on the fiat of a single individual.
The wonder seems that the hungry, harassed and hot-
headed masses of Ireland do not break away from their
constitutional leaders and plunge the country into the
horrors of a revolution.
If Toryism lasts the revolution will come fast
enough, and when it comes there will be a
favourable opportunity for the despatch of
another Soudan contingent to fight for liberty,
and wipe out the disgrace which the other
contingent acquired while propping-up British
oppression on the point of its amateur bayonet.
The D.T. does not say this yet, but in another
three years it w I’. for what The Bulletin
says to-day the 'lelegraph says by-and-bye.
Public opinion is forcing that once respectable
journal along paths which it once regarded as
those of treason, and by its advance the mental
position of the nation can be ascertained. The
daily press forms the tail of popular sentiment,
and when the tail is visible it is generally safe to
conclude that the rest of the animal is close ahead.
♦
In detailing the arrangement arrived at for the
settlement of the strike of 1500 girls employed in
Bryant and May’s match-factories, a letter ad-
dressed by the London Trades Council to the
press concludes with the following pregnant
passage:—-
“ The moral outcome of the dispute, however, will be
poor, indeed, unless the match-makers and all of us
keep in view the labour question as a whole. It does not
rest in a contest with Bryant and May, or any single
firm. There is a line of cheapness below which nothing
but degradation to the workers is the result, without ad-
vantage to the consumers, as may be realised by the
ridiculously low price at which, for example, matches are
now fold The insatiable demand for the lowest price,
irrespective of methods or consequences, is the curse of
modern industrial life. The entire community must
bear its share of the odium if in this rush it drives em-
ployers to drive their workers. Much might be done by a
healthy public determination to encourage native produc-
tion in preference to so-called cheap importations .”
Now, what is this but a strong demand for Pro-
tection ?
*
When that eminent Foreign-trader and statis-
tician, Mulhall, issues the next edition of his
dictionary of statistics sundry curious facts are
likely to come to light. The last few years have
been dismal ones for the dervishes who scream for
the Freetrade superstition, and recent results
show that things are getting no better very fast.
In 1825 England was 10s. per head richer than
France, and in 1850, when the mother-land was
just entering on her career of Freetrade, her
population was £5 9s. per head wealthier than
their neighbours across the Channel. Twenty-
seven years later —in 1887 —England found herself
53. per head poorer than France, and every day
leaves her farther behind. In the last ten
years the commerce of France has increased 39
per cent.; that of the United States, 68 per cent.;
and that of Freetrade Britain 21 per cent only.
The total increase of the world’s commerce has
amounted to 26 per cent., so that the only alleged
Freetrade country on earth has actually been left
behind by almost all the rest of the globe. France
has now 57 per cent, of her land under tillage and
every year the proportion is increasing. Britain
has 30 pBr cent oi her land under tillage and the
area is diminishing every year. Everywhere the
arable land of England is turning into wilderness;
the farm-houses are crumbling into ruins ; and the
solitudes are growing wider and more dreary
where the richest crops in England used to be
annually sown and reaped.
A dull-witted individual who aspires to the com-
position of “ Plain English,” has a letter over that
pen-name in the S.M. Herald, wherein he asserts
that those who desire an “ equal distribution of
wealth” claim an equal sharing of the world’s
wealth among all the world’s inhabitants, and
then proceeds to bemoan the circumstance that
every man would then roam a v, out with only £3 in
his pocket-book, while he (“Plain English ”) and
kindred flunkeys would be deprived of their here-
ditary privilege of grovelling before millionaires
and sich. Such a fossilised intellect might gain
some information as to the meaning of the terms
“wealth” and “equal distribution” from a few
elementary works on political economy, but it is
to be feared that this Rip Van Winkle is not to be
so easily awakened. At the same time it would be
no bad thing could everyone be endowed with three
bright, golden sovereigns, while provided with a
mart where they could be ba tered for the ncces-
saries of life. However, what is urgently required
in the case of most Herald correspondents is not
so much a re-distribution of wealth as a fairer ap-
portionment of brains and charitable feelings.
Most of them assuredly came into existence on
Pancake Tuesday, on which day a vulgar proverb
informs us that those who are born have their
skulls filled with batter instead of the tissue which
is considered to be the seat of sensation and per-
ception.
♦
Some Pulsfordian logic : “ There are,” says an ex-
change, “ 112 persons on Pitcairn Island, two-
thirds being women. They use no strong drink,
tobacco, and money.” Now, first, we are to ob-
serve that these Pitcairn Island people use no
strong drink or tobacco. In the second place, ob-
serve that the people in North Queensland use
both strong drink and tobacco. What now
we want you to realise is that in North
Queensland, where strong drink and tobacco are
used, the two-thirds are men, whereas in Pitcairn
Island, where neither strong drink nor tobacco is
used, the two-thirds are women; that is, that
where there is no strong drink or tobacco there are
two women for every man, and where both strong
drink and tobacco are there are two men for every
woman. This is so conclusive that anyone who
can longer maintain the barbarous doctrine that
women in a population are not in inverse ratio to
strong drink and tobacco will derive little profit
from reading anything further which may be
written on the subject.
4
Queensland Figaro makes the following im-
pressively sensational statements with respect to
the “ Hopeful ” case :
“ I have no hesitation,” says the editor, “ in expressing
my conviotion that had not a reprieve been granted—had
those men been hanged, Sam Griffith would not now
have been alive. There actually was a number of persons
in Brisbane —respectable as every-day oitizens go—who
had banded together and sworn, by a binding and ter-
rible oath, that the sun that rose on the gallows that
hanged M'Neil and Williams, should set also uocn the
corpse of Sam Griffith. Another and more elaborate
plan—in which some hundreds of men were concerned—
was a scheme for the rescue by force of the condemned
men, and tbe partial demolition probably of the prison
which held them. These be facts. They have long been
known to me, but their discovery in detail to the public
would do no good now, and could bave done no good at
any time after the cause for them bad vanished. The re-
ference to them now is merely useful as a link in history',
for I assert that they are facts which future political
persecutors in this colony would do well to bear in mind.
During that agitation, Sam Griffith was never at any
time in any sort of a public or getatable place, but there
was always within a few paces of him a ma n carrying aloaded
revolver, and pledged by solemn vows to use it upon a
given signal.”
This reads like a leading article from a Central
American paper, and should rather tend to
paralyse Queensland securities in London when
Pritchard Morgan shows a Figaro to his
friends on the Stock Exchange and at the Bank
of England.
Godfrey, who was recently knocked ont
by Peter Jackson, shows a record of 37 fights,
27 wins, 7 draws, and 3 defeats.
It has been pointed out that thoughN.S. W.
sends away six millions of ounces of silver annually
no silver coin is minted in the colony.
The poet Kendall’s eldest son Frederick
has been appointed to a position in the Engineer-
ing Department of the N.S.W. Works Office.
Mr. B. R. Wise won the English mile
amateur pedestrian championship twice, and the
mile race at the Oxford and Cambridge University
sports twice.
Since the Redfern election those two ac-,
complished political trimmers Jacob Garrata
and Sohey, M’s P , are said to have become very
desirous of joining the Protectionist ranks.
Sydney Sunday Times says that the
Daily Telegraph “shows signs of ratting.”
This, coming from a paper which has calmly
taken the sharpest curve on record, is indeed mag-
nificent.
G. A. Sala has written for the Universal
Review a paper on “ The Reward of Journalism.”
In N.S.W. the reward of all “ respectable ” and
“ right-thinking ” journalism is Government ad-
vertising at 6s. per inch.
In a wild burst of that native humour
which hangs round him like feathers round a frog,
Sir Henry Parkes dubbed “Uncle” Abigail the
“Plying Philosopher of the Government.” If
Abigail would only call in at Broken Hill now, the
chances are that he would fly as he never flew
before, or if he didn’t something would probably
strike him.
During the year, 1880 tons of newspapers
are carried gratis over the N. S W. Government
lines for the Sydney newspaper proprietors, who
“gammon” that they only carry on business for
the purpose of instructing the people. Yet, while
giving this enormous and unwarrantable subsidy
to a privileged class, the Government occasionally
cut down the meagre salaries of Civil servants.
That entry in the German Frederick’s
diary anent Louis Napo! eon’s perfidy is having a
bad effect on English nerve?. Had Louis Napo-
leon only acted differently on the morning Sedan
surrendered —had he braced himself up with
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, the face of Europe
would have been very different from what it is
at present.
A recent London cablegram states that
the diary of the late German Emperor Frederick
furnishes evidence that early in 1871, while that
arch-impostor, Louis Napoleon, was still a prisoner
in the hands of the Germans subsequent to the
Sedan surrender of himself and his entire army to
Kaiser Wilhelm, he urged the latter to make
peace on moderate terms with Fiance, with
a view to the Germans and French
uniting afterwards in a common invasion of
England. This has, of course, set the En-
glish by the ears. It needed something that
affected John Bull personally before he would
credit the great denouncer of Louis Napoleon
Victor Hugo.
Among the very few industries which make
a fair show amid the desolation of the N.S. Wale 3
court at the Melbourne Exhibition probably the
most congpicuous is that of Mr. T. F. Wiesener,
of George-street, Sydney, manufacturer of tele-
scopes, theodolites, &c, watchmaker, jeweller,
optician, and a geart number of other things
besides. Mr. Wiesener’s exhibits show that his
business is one of very large proportions, and the
excellent quality of his work says more for his
remarkable skill and ability than a loDg list of
liaper testimonials, however eloquent, from the
ending statesmen and political dead-bsats of Aus-
tralia. New South Wales has little to boast of in
the shape of lccal industries, but the splendid dis-
play made by Mr. Wiesener proves that the Corn-
stalk is fitted for better things than dumping wool
or unloading nigger-manned ships at Circular
Quay.


£(OOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
The Popular Pleasure Resort.
Visited Daily by Large and Fashionable Audiences.
Saturday Next—Monster Holiday Attraction !!
OS’ THE FAMOUS 'geS
FAUST (12 In Number) FAMILY
Notice.— Trams leave Bridge-street each afternoon for
the Aquarium at 1.48, 2.9, 2.24, 3.55, 2.25, 3.52 and 4 5
returning at frequent intervals.
Sunday Next—The Inauguration or SPEC I 11.
AFTERNOON CONCERTS.
Great Programme ! Distinguished Artistes !
Including the Universal Favourite
a (
The Renowned Operatic Prima Donna,
Who, on her First Appearance last Sunday, was received
with an
Ovation of Continued Applause!
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. No Extra Charge ,
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.— “ Miss Esmeralda ” p. 18.
Her Majesty's.— “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin” ... „
Alhambra.— Minstrelsy
Criterion.— “ A Touch of the Sun” ~
Royal Standard.—” Outcasts ”
“ A Touch of the Sun ” opened its wild
career at Sydney Criterion on Saturday night, and
from the beginning of the second act its triumph
was a matter of certainty. The author has struck
something new in the region of dramatic art. He
has built an artistic madman without large red
iiands and abnormal chest-development; a lunatic
who is fit to hang out in any drawing-room or to
join a church, and yet is a lunatic all the time ; a
deranged gentleman of high character who doesn’t
drivel or stare blankly at visionary native bears
strolling through space, who wants blood but is
particular about whose blood he is going to shed,
and who owns an unearthly laugh and a look of
sanguinary remoteness, but has sense enough to
pull himself together every time he hears his own
scream and offer some perfectly feasible explanation.
And when he explains that he is imitating a hy sena
that he met once, or that he has a friend who laughs
that way, he does it with a pleasant affability
which sets everybody at his ease right off. Mr.
George Leitch’s lunatic is filled with a weird and
decayed awfulness which suggests skulls knocking
about in caves, and human bones reclining on
muddy river-banks, and spooks gibbering on wide
waste places by the sea or howling and clanking
their chains at midnight in the middle of an end-
less forest at a spot where four roads meet; it
reminds the auditor of gnomes singing horrible
tunes underground to the music of bags of coke
dragged over the remains of ancient martyrs ; it
suggests the dirge of Dante’s forest of sombre-hued
trees with each tree composed of a frozen female
tract-distributor of uncertain antiquity, and
underlying all this it faintly hints of fork-
shaped demons chasing mis-shapen apes over
the trackless miles of ice that surround the
frozen Pole. And yet Mr. Leitch’s madman
is the kind of lunatic whom any citizen would in]
vite home to tea and spend a pleasant evening with,
and then tell him to call again the first time he
was passing, and if the citizen had eight daughters
they would all lose their palpitating hearts to the
deranged gentleman and would want to elope
with him right off and make him a Mormon. A
kind of lunatic like this wants to be seen to be
fully appreciated. The company which backs up
Mr. Leitch is one of the strongest in Sydney, and
it revolves round an axis of crazy yet elevated
humanity with remarkable smoothness. Miss
Maggie Knight appears as a bride of unreliable
temper, who dissolves frequently into tears on
account of her aunt, and quotes that Gorgon
female at all times and seasons, and this exceed-
ingly clever little lady looks so pretty
in her distress that the audience would gladly
lend its bosom for her to weep upon. Miss
Myra Kemble occupies the bill as the
heroine, but her part is smaller than it
ought to be ; and Miss Nellie Mortyne is the same
favourite as of old Messrs. A. R. Lawrence,
Owen Harris, Cathcart, Montgomery, Miss E.
Homer, and a small and shrill but precocious boy,
or something,' who answers to the name of Quealey,
make up the balance of the show. Taking it in
all its aspects, “ A Touch of the Sun ” is a weird
and astonishing dream which whirls through
elegant drawing-rooms, and revolves on smooth,
green lawns, and spins round on dining-tables,
and fills the listening air with misty amazement,
and ascends the roof of the human soul in order
that it may shin down the water-pipe of mental
collapse; and through it all the thing which seems
about to happen hardly ever happens, and the
thing which seems as if it couldn’t possibly _ come
about comes about every time. In short, it has
almost all the elements of success, and if it doesn t
succeed something ought to happen at once.
*# * #
The “Hansom Cab” having jolted away
down the boulder-strewn track which leads to
forgottenness, its place has been taken at Sydney
Royal Standard by the “Outcasts,” a little thing
which somebody has dashed cff on the basis of
Miss Braddon’s novel, “H»nry Dunbar.” The
change is decidedly for the better. . Henry
Dunbar ” is built on a circumstance which looks
almost as improbable as the facts in the case of
Lazarus, a foreign gentleman who died twice over
in the vicinity of Jerusalem, but the authoress
spread a veil of plausibility over the story
which makes the audience feel that it could have
happened quite easily any day it wanted to. The
artless, golden-headed girl with the eight husbands
to whom Miss Braddon is so much attached—the
maiden with the big, baby-blue eyes who kisses her
last partner in life while the other seven glare at her
from behind a carpet-bag, has been judiciously left
out of this narrative; so has the honest squire
with the broken heart and the voice like a tame
elephant in a state of applause, who is killed ip
several districts and hanged in one or two conti-
nents ; and the usual closing row, where the
heroine’s voice dies away in a cat-like cadence
while she falls back against a view of a field with
several cows in it, and the old church is struck by
a flash of lightning which blows out a misty docu-
ment, which same reveals that everybody is every-
body else’s long-lost uncle, and a cask containing
eight hundredweight |of salt me it falls on the
fiendish schemer and crushes him flat, and the
ninth husband of the girl with the fair hair shins
down the water-pipe of the lunatic asylum where
he was confined, and walks 247 miles in an open
boat, which ultimately descends .through the gas
escaping and goes off the rails in a tunnel, after
which it founders in a heavy gale and he arrives
on horseback with the boiler bursting at the last
moment —all these things have been omitted,
and owing to their omission the “ Outcasts is a
good drama and deserves success. The leading
character, a gentleman who takes possession of a
bank and a mansion which don’t belong to him,
also a daughter that isn’t his, and a quarter of a
million of money which is the property of some
one else, and does it all with an easy felicity that
displays vast experience in the shifting of other
people’s daughters and banks and other things, is
filled by Mr. H. C. Sidney ; and the ability with
which this difficult character is rendered stamps
the actor as a man who deserves a leading part
in a big theatre with a large tank in it. Mr. Frank
Gerald is a jaunty and brilliant adventurer with
little visible linen, but possessed of a flow of
speech and a profusion of bangles on his right
forefinger, and he brings down the house as we
have never seen him bring down anything before.
Miss Alice Norton, as Margaret Wentworth, gets
the show which was denied her in the disappoint-
ing “ Hansom Cab,” and proves herself worthy of
the opportunity, and Miss Ethel Grey—the
daughter who is borrowed by Mr. Sidney along
with the bank and the other fixings—is a daughter
whom any man would be justified in borrowing,
no matter what rate of interest he had to pay for
her. A detective who looks like an agricultural
person with a soul wrapped up in horse-feed and
seeds in his hair, and a lover who is undemon-
strative and badly off for a shave, and one or
two other trifles, are the only drawbacks worth
speaking of.
*# # *
Mr. George Leitch, dramatic author, come-
dian, &c., whose intellectual countenance is de-
lineated in this issue, is a gentleman who has
roamed over most parts of the earth’s surface and
collected the gate-money from many races. His
stage career commenced 20 years ago, and he has
struck ile in the beloved mother country and else-
where along with almost all the leading actors and
actresses of the day. Having traversed the United
Kingdom at the head of his own company for some
years, he lighted out for new fields, and for a while
was manager of the leading theatre at Cape
Town. He appeared in Sydney as the Prince
in “Forget Me Not,” and Australia took the
hint and remembered him, as it also did his
companion star, Miss Genevieve Ward. After
this he struck up a partnership with Mr. James
M‘Mahon, and the new firm had a long and suc-
cessful career in New Zealand, in the course of
which they towed the veteran Dion Boucicault
through Maoriland to the profit of everybody con-
cerned. Mr. Leitch’s latest venture is the pro-
duction of “ A Touch of the Sun ” at Sydney
Criterion, and a visit to that house is sufficient
proof that the favourite actor has lost none of the
brilliance, versatility, and humour which have
earned for him so much popularity in the past,
and which—if they do nothing better—will at
least ensure him a big tombstone, with an inscrip-
tion setting forth that a grateful country has
squashed half-a-ton of granite on to his bones as
a token of universal sympathy and appreciation.
** * *
“ Uncle Tom,” with his frozen water-tank
across which the escaping quadroon mother flies
floating on a hunk of ice-cream, has still an in-
definite future before him at Her Majesty’s (Syd-
ney), but opposition is looming on the horizon.
On Wednesday (October 3) Carrie Swain re-ap-
pears at the Royal in the “Tomboy,” and that
Thomas youth also brings a tank, with “ the original
swimming and diving effects as first produced in
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENC. Cd- 8 ORIDCE ST. SYDNEY.
MR. GEORGE LEITCH.
Australia ” thrown in. From our recollections of
the “Tomboy,” we are inclined to say that that
play wants a tank or something badly, and, at the
same time, our memories of Carrie convince us
that she is clever enough to get along with-
out any tank, so that, taking everything into
account, we don’t know whether to encore the
tank or not Meanwhile the dark skinned
brotherhood at the Opera House go serenely on
their way, and look down with derision on worldly
scrimmages concerning tanks. The only tank
they want is a middle-sized one to put the money
in. The other niggers at the Alhambra want a
tank two siz c s larger for the same purpose. The
coloured desperadoes there show no signs of decay,
and while Misses Florence Schuler, James and
Blackie, Messrs. Holland, Cray don, Alf James,
Delowry, and other prominent pirates survive,
financial disaster is likely to remain afar off.
#* # #
Nellie Farren and the angels who tread
along with her the well-worn paths of public use-
fulness, sail for America on October 3, and conse-
quently the evening of October 2 will be the
fateful occasion when “Miss Esmeralda” will
smile upon Sydney for the last time. Saturday
next will be devoted to Miss Nellie's benefit, when
Governor Carington will lend the illumination of
his presence ; and on the ensuing Tuesday Fred.
Leslie collars the profits. May they prove so
heavy that six men won’t be able to carry them.
## * #
The Sydney Crystal Palace Rink woke up
on the night of the 18th inst. to dissipate in a
ball and skating carnival, and the large hall in
which the amateur rinkist balances for one awful
moment and then comes down on his head was
gay with fancy costumes, decorations, and re-
freshments. Some 200 people proceshed in
the national choral march, and an orchestra
which had been carefully educated up to
the occasion supplied sweet strains to re-
fresh the exhausted intellect. The proceedings
included an exhibition by Mr. Sylvester, a gentle-
man who imparts an aspect of indiarubber bounce-
ableness to his skates that would break any other
man up, and a skipping race on rollers which
looked as if it might prove fatal. Another equally
successful entertainment took place on Tuesday,
the 25 th inst.
## # *
A multitude of very moderate proportions
met at Melbourne Royal on Saturday to greet
Signor Majeroni as “ The Old Corporal.” Briefly
reckoned up, this five-act play from Italy dimly
suggests “ Struck Oil ” with Maggie Moore left
out, and is mainly supported by a dilapidated son
of Mars, who is mostly “ off his onion.” Signor
Majeroni—although comedy is his forte —puts
much power and feeling into his familiar repre-
sentation of this shattered warrior. The Signora
is also touchingly implicated in the prevailing woe
and a few corpses are scattered o’er the plain in
sad disorder. More than one other member of the
company would be distinct acquisitions if they
swelled the heaps of slain, but furbher comment is
needless because “ The Old Corporal ” retires
after to-night (Thursday).
m m m
On Friday (28th) Signora Majeroni takes a
benefit as “ Marie Stuart,” the meek-faced martyr
monarch who used to set her husbands on fire
when she had finished with them. His Excellency
and Lady Loch will most appropriately assist at
this glorification of a tottering institution (mean-
ing monarchy—not Signora Majeroni), and Mrs.
G. _B. Lewis has “consented to emerge from her
retirement ” to play that bloodthirsty, giddy old
virgin—Queen Elizabeth.
#* # #
“ On Change,” at the Bijou, is now played
with a dash and finish in connection with which
there is no such word as “ fail.” Credit for the
howling success of this farcical comedy—original
in sundry places—is equally divided between
Messrs. Brough, Anson, Boucicault, Titheradge,
and Miss Lilian Gillmore. In a darkened room,
Titheradge and Miss Gillmore transact a tender
passage with the aid of lucifer matches, which
throw fitful gleams of light upon the prettiest
situation seen for many a day. Finally the damsel
impulsively puffs out Titheradge’s last lucifer, and
they make a match between them straight away.
It is a scene that lingers in the memory, is mellow
on the palate, and warms the heart—like very old
rum. Tennyson was thinking about the Iris Bur-
nett of Miss Lilian G. when he wrote those im-
perishable lines :
“ In the Spring no lovelier Iris
Ever played the turtle dove ;
In the Spring a poet’s lyre is
Softly turned to songs of love.
Lo ! the worn and weary millions
Working on while parsons pray—
Better one sweet * bus ’ of Lilians
Than all the bicycles in Cathay.”
The Queen made Tennyson a Baron for doing
that.
*# # #
Somebody informed Governor Loch that
Miss Essie Jenyns was marblelously fetching in
the clinging habiliments of Galatea, so the symbol
of sacred majesty “ commanded ” that fairy vision
to appear at the Princess’s on Saturday night.
PJain Bill Holloway and the rest were also com-
manded to turn up (although they would have got
there all the same without any instructions) and
the dress-circle was so choked up with loyal sub-
jects that the King, travelling incognito, who re-
presents this journal on State occasions, found
himself commanded to stand on one leg at a time.
It was a scrumptious function entirely. There is
nothing fresh to say about ‘ 1 Pygmalion and
Galatea,” except that the story is too far advanced
when the curtain draws up. The world is seized
with a strange longing to behold Essie as she
looked in the rough before Plain William carved
her out. We should also like to see the gods
who gave her life.
#* # #
The congested state of affairs at the Alex-
andra these last few weeks is working a slight
change for the worse in other directions. “ Whose
Are They?” doesn’t cause money to be rejected
at St. George’s Hall; for all that it is full of in-
nocuous mirth and nice young women, who
chase a large assortment of husbands through
three delirious acts. And, considering that the
leading character can’t find his pants, the rather
neglected state of this tragedy calls for ex plana
tion. The Victoria Hall is also capable of ac-
commodating a few more lost souls than drop in
upon the proceedings just at present, but things
will probably re-assume their normal aspect when
the Alexandra niggers depart. This distressing
event comes off in a week’s time, after which
Alfred Dampier.
## # *
The Spanish Students are struggling along
under their painful inflections at the Opera House,
and will continue to make mad the guilty and
appal the free for one more week. Meantime,
Alice Rebottaro and Buzzi, the basso, have been
engaged to warble between the strummings, so
that Mr. Simonsen’s unfortunate spec, is merging
into Italian opera. But, honestly speaking, those
students will do no good until they are blackened
up for Federal Minstrels, and taught to pipe out
ballads concerning their mother or their dreams.
** # *
Grattan Riggs has been playing for the
past week or two among the dejected ash-heaps of
Broken Hill, and the Theatre Royal has been
filled by “Shin Fane,” or an attempt at him.
Shin feigned his best, and the other members of
the company attempted to feign Shin, but the
audience were not deceived. Grattan Riggs him-
self was not responsible for this result, but the
truth is that it takes more than one good man to
make “ Shin Fane ” a tearing success.
## # *
The comic opera season at the Adelaido
Royal has come to rather a sudden termination
owing to the want of appreciation on the part of a
thick-headed gathering of inhabitants. “ Dorothy”
was revived in an excellent manner, but people
preferred to attend prayer-meetings and the like
and business fell away. “ Pinafore,” for one
night, was the concluding item. The manage-
ment, after big expense over a company com-
manding high salaries, are naturally wroth at the
behaviour of the Adelaide public. Tommy Hud-
son sails for India, Professor Baldwin taking his
place at Garner’s Theatre, and Amy Sherwin and
her company warble at the Town Hall.
#* # *
The Anglo-Colonial drama entitled “Hands
Across the Sea,” and in which Mr. Charles
Warner plays a pecuniarily interested part, will
break out at Melbourne Royal on Saturday (2flth).
It is advertised with a verse, after this .style :
Hands across the sea,
The feet on British soil,
The old fool is big fool,
And snobs are “loil.”
#* # #
Leslie and Danby say that Australia is
“ the finest country they have ever struck,” and
they mean to come back to it as soon as possible
—very probably by themselves.
## * #
An English paper reports that “Miss
Minnie Palmer has been enjoying a little shooting
at Axwell Park.” What she shot is not men-
tioned. Probably one cow and her husband.
Charles Harding’s opera company is en route for
Java and Singapore, and, providing the tenor and
the basso profundo are not consumed by the tigers
and crocodiles, they will next steer for San Fran-
cisco. Sara Bernhardt’s bath has been seized by
a dark and gruesome bailiff, and the divine Sara
is now compelled to wash at the pump. Herr
Possart, a German actor, has just got married for
the third time. Each time he has married the
same lady, and he has had two divorces from her.
A train, heavily laden with Brough and Bouoi-
cault’s burlesque company, broke clown recently
on one of the New Zealand lines. Heavy villains
should always be conveyed in trucks. The
agent for a theatrical company, who re-
cently appeared in South Australia, put up
at a well-known hotel convenient to the
theatre, post-office, banks, public reading room,
wharf, and other interesting and important
places, ordered the best of everything, borrowed
half the furniture in the house for stage purposes,
drank the bar nearly dry and chalked it up, in-
vited roystering friends to dine with him and
chalked them up also, struck everybody for a
small loan, and then privately kicked the hotel half
to pieces and left by night. He wasn’t a theatrical
agent after all, as it proved, but only a Sunday-
school teacher. Theatrical circles are much
agitated by the fact that George Coppin has not
made a positively last appearance on the Sydney
stage for the past 30 years. Cagli, the well-
known operatic impressario, who piloted ttvo
Italian opera companies through Australia, died
suddenly at Singapore a few weeks ago. Sara
Bernhardt, who has often been coming to Australia,
but hasn’t been here jet, is coming some more.
She is so thin now that it is calculated the Aus-
tralian mosquito will be disappointed when he
samples her and will ask what we are a-givin’
him of. A gentleman writes from Melbourne
to say that the young lady who acted the part of
Boadicea or Britannia or some other ancient circum-
stance in the Druids’ procession at the opening of
Melbourne Exhibition is not dead, as reported by
The Bulletin. For our own part, we don’t com-
mit ourselves to any absolute expression of
opinion, only we don’t see how she can help being
dead. The Bulletin said she was dead, and con-
sequently she ought to be. If she is alive we con-
clude she is somebody else, and not the lady we
meant When The Bulletin says that a lady is
dead she ought not to dispute the assertion by
remaining in active motion. It creates ill-feeling.
Mrs. Langtry has quarrelled with her manager]
Mr. Keogh, and they no longer smile as they
glide past. A New York paper says sadly that
“ Mr. Keogh is a very beautiful young man,
with no end of clothes, and his departure from
Mrs. Langtry’s employ will remove one of the
finest spectacular effects connected with the lady’s
career.”


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW THE
UOS7 FOFVLAft LIQ7OB
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
When next you bake try Pemell's Snow-white Patent
Roller Floer, a d jo..r br u<J .till be at waist enow.
PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hookings 410 Oeorge Street, near King Street
Pepper
And
Salf
“ Jimmie.—Am still wearing trinket you
gave me. Would nob part with it for worlds. Do
send me one of your letters—the last one I gave
you back. So despondent and miserable. Blue
and Black.” (Argus advt.) :
The new Melbourne land-racket organ
lures its victims to their doom with poems like
this :
“ Oh, if you’d happy be,
Buy land for aye !
For other specs, don’t give a D. ;
While shines the sun make hay.”
Observe how the rollicking humour of “ don’t give
a D.” relieves the comparative heaviness of that
transposed proverb
Yet one more proverb we’ve heard men tell,
And—dash it all!—we’ll quote it:
“ A bad name give to a dog-gerel
And hang the cuss who wrote it.”
Bub, there ! The Bulletin sympathises with an
editor who has to woo the Muses at land-sales,
and find the divine spark on a splendid suburban
allotment, and then dash off a verse when, all the
time, he is built for grinding out good plain truths
about irrigation, and potato-blight, and influen-
tial syndicates. Besides, he is a modest bard and
perpetrates these shocking offences under the
heading, “ Rhymes of the Week.” He admits
his weakness. We, therefore, forgive him, and
request that he will pause and consider before it is
too late. Those ballads are calculated to burst up
the boom.
A little bird sitting below made reply]:
“You’re wrong, as they prove who are now passing
by ; An m <n > m
They say, though he’s poor as an average poet,
Yet when a youth offered to put in his hand
A bribe for a billet, his conduct was grand ;
He seized the soft knave with his ten-pound
temptation
And swore to his guilt with loud-toned indig-
nation—
They know it, they know it, they know it!”
The little bird sitting on high said : “ When he
Was told by men equal to him in degree
He begged like a brazen-faced, out-at-kneed
poet
And paid back by giving the lenders the name
Of statesmen, or something—he then was not game
To beard bo their faces those men of his station
And show off his virtue in front of the nation !
I know it, I know it, I know ib!”
Mrs. Lirceny-as-a-Gordon-Baillie has been
admitted to bail,
The fees paid to jurymen in the Dibbs-
Telegraph case amounted to £3OO.
Richard Anthony Proctor has passed away.
Henry Parkes is still alive. Survival of the fittest,
M‘Culloch and Co., Limited, the Mel-
bourne Carriers, have declared dividend and bonus
equal to 20 per cent.
The millennium is at hand. The R.C.
Bishop of Maitland, N.S.W,, took the chair at
one of Cold-water Burnett’s meetings.
A late cable to the daily press tells us that
the Hon. Thomas Holt’s death was “caused by
failure of the heart’s action.” We really shouldn’t
wonder.
While the conveyance with provisions for
the non-unionist coal-workers was entering the
THE “PROPHETLESS” EXISTENCE OF THE AUSTRALIAN CLERGY.
“The Rev. Mr. Dods, late of Scots’ Church, Collins-street, Melbourne, informed
a Glasgow congregation the other day that ‘the clergy in Australia are not respected,
and lead a profitless existence.’ ” —Australian paper.
Greta Company's ground the other day, the
horse attached to it dropped dead. He preferred
death to “black-legging.”
“ An exceedingly pretty wedding ” is the
f et phrase of the gushing “ sassiety ” writer now.
t arises out of the fact that two people are making
a pretty spectacle of themselves.
Dear Bulletin, —In reference to your
‘ ‘ Plain English ” item in re holidays. I am a C ivil
servant, but being only a caretaker of a Government
tank, when I apply for a holiday, it is granted on
condition that I furnish a deputy, who is paid by
myself. .Wish I were Engineer-in*Chief of
Harbours, etc.—Yours, etc., Lunatic.
The N.S. W. public, and more particularly
the N.S.W vignerons, will be glad to hear on the
re -assembling of Parliament by reason of what quali-
fications and through whose influence the appoint-
ment of Inspector of Vineyards has been con-
ferred on Mr. Pringle, who, it is understood, has
since his arrival in the colony from Scotland been
engaged as an agent for the sale of agricultural
machinery.
Writing to a daily paper on the subject of
the A. M. P. Society officers’ fund payment dis-
pute, Mr W. Cope remarks that though many of
the Society’s members agree that a better scheme
might have been adopted the Society’s promise
has been made and must be kept. Mr. Cope adds
that these internal dissensions are damaging the
A. M. P. and benefiting the rival companies, and
that though he likes his friends to protect his
interests he objects to their fighting for him in a
cause which he doesn’t approve, on the flower-
beds of his front garden. As to the threat of
legal procsedings, Mr. Cope says: “Do my
friends happen to remember any recorded instance
of a lawyer himself going to law if he could help
it?”
N.S.W. Art Society’s Annual Exhibition.
The N.S.W. Art Society’s Exhibition of the
present year is certainly the best of the kind ever
held in Sydney—probably the best ever seen in
Australasia. There are few really bad pictures
exhibited, and these are so different from the rank
and-file as to keenly accentuate the average merit
of these latter. And there are in the present
year’s exhibition pictures that would not be re-
fused in any similar exhibition in any part of the
world—pictures, too, of special and intrinsic
value, as establishing the claim of Australia to a
distinct and separate domain, however small, in
the great world of art. In the attempt to re-
alise the genuinely Australian picture, Godfrey
Rivers’ “ Near Katoomba,” Eullwood’s “ Went-
worth Falls” and “Early Spring, near Richmond,”
Mahony’s “ Chaff Cutting,” Atkinson’s “ Deli-
cate Question,” Mahony and Fullwood’s “ Drink
by the Wayside,” and Godfrey Rivers’ “ Liver-
pool Plains,” are characteristic examples. Among
pictures of a purely local character are Charles
Conder’s “ Departure of the Orient,” C. H. Hunt’s
“ Sydney at Eventide,” and Arthur Collingridge’s
“ Sydney from the Hornsby Light.” It is puzzling
to know why the trustees of the National Gallery,
who purchased Mr. Hunt’s picture, did not also
purchase Mr. Collingridge’s, portions of which
are better painted than the work that secured the
suffrages of the buying committee. Mr. Piguenit’s
one picture is not Australian. Presumedly the
scene he ventures to predict—a very sentimental
scene it is, by the way—is Tasmanian, but it
might just as well be anything in the wide world
except the Sahara Desert or the bottom of the
ocean. The best show is undoubtedly made by
the President, Mr. Julian R Ashton, who con-
tributes no less than twelve subjects, eight in
water-colours and four in oils, three of the latter
being portraits. Signor Nerli contributes nine
subjects, and the work of these two artists give a
solid tone of high-class merit to the entire Exhibi-
tion, From the brush of the latter is perhaps the
most striking picture in the room, a portrait of
that accomplished actress Miss Myra Kemble,
which, after all, is rather a study in the
treatment of rich masses of drapery than
a _ portrait. A coil of ambrosial hair, a
pair of sparkling eyes, a bright, smiling face
half-concealed with an ostrich-feather, an im-
perial cloak of ruby plush, richly draped over a
robe of gray, stand cut effectively against a warm
background and arrest the passing glance and
hold it. All Signor Nerli’s work is marked by
the same boldness and sensuousness of treatment,
though none of his other contributions to this
year’s Exhibition approach this splendid study.
Mr. Julian Ashton’s aesthetic portrait of Mrs. B.
R. Wise is another fine study, full of masterful
treatment, delicate in tone, and harmonious in
colouring, and is, despite the hardness of the
flesh-tints, without doubt the best work that this
artist has given to the present year’s show. A
fine, broad, melancholy, and somewhat coldly-har
monious landscape, representing Sydney after
sunset and called “ Evening ” from the easel of
Mr C. H. Hunt, has been purchased by the
trustees of the N.S.W. National Gallery, and we
are pleased that Mr. Hunt’s long and patient
devotion to art has been so well recognised as
well as having been productive of such a really
meritorious work. Mr. Arthur Collingridge has
painted a large canvas of Sydney Harbour in
which the foreground of rocks and bush shrubbery
is strongly and effectively handled and the effect of
the rays of the setting sun in the middle distance
is admirable. The President’s portrait of Mrs.
J. R. Ashton is not so successful as that of Mrs.
B. R. Wise; but the study of the head of a youDg
girl, crowned with a mass of copper-hued hair
against a background of dark-green, is very effec-
tive. Amongst Mr. J. R. Ashton’s water-colour
sketches we certainly prefer a scene near Rich-
mond giving a morning effect, which we consider
a perfect little gem in its way. Mr. J. Mather
contributes some very artistic water-colour
sketches painted in that broadly suggestive style
that marks all his work, and amongst them a
notable picture is “A Study—Moonlight ” We
are sorry that Mr. Piguenit has sent only one
picture to this year’s Exhibition, a careful and
meritorious oil-painting of a winter’s evening. A
youDg and hitherto almost untried hand has
turned out a vast quantity of work full of bright-
ness, dash, and suggestiveness. This is Charles
Conder, a neophyte artist with an intense feeling
for colour surcharged with sentiment, and revel-
ling in the high lights and bright tints character-
istic of Australian sunlight and of Australian
scenery. We prophesy that he will make a
name some day. Amongst the water-colours we
were pleased to note some good impressionist
work from the brush of Donald Commons.
George E Ashton’s pair of water-colour sketches,
“ Before ” and “ After the Sitting,” are very
dashing and clever, and, without entering into
minute and painful detail, we consider this year’s
show far and away the best ever held in Sydney
and well worthy a visit of any lover of Australian
art. One or two pictures have got in which should
not have been shown, but where there is so much
to be grateful for it would be invidious to be
hypercritical.
Alas ! Alack ! poor Blue and Black,
Her fair young head is swimmy.
Awake, asleep, she fain would weep—
And all because of Jimmy ;
It chanced, somehow, they had a row :
From lips which oft had met hers,
She turned in scorn, and said “ Begone !
And here’s your stupid letters.”
Alas ! Alack ! he took the sack,
Although she didn’t think it;
The love she.spurned has ne’er returned
To claim that treasured trinket;
What would she give again to live
A slave, in rosy fetters !
O ! for one note that Jimmie wrote—
One of those tender letters.
’Twas ever thus. Girls worry us
Until, in hot enragement,
We say “good bye,” and then they try
To get a fresh engagement.
This jilted lad has seen the ad.,
And doubless said—“ O dimmy !
The game is played, my pretty maid,
And you have lost your Jimmie.”
Quite right of Jim. Young woman’s whim
Is changeful as the weather—]
This love might turn to unconcern
Ere long they’d spooned together.
And vows which men on paper pen
Have dangerous attraction
For little “tarts,” who—bless their hearts ! —
Might want to bring an action.
HIMSELF.
Mr. J. Haynes, M.L.A., addressed his constituents on
Saturday night. The attendance was not large, owing to
its being Saturday night.—Daily Pai’er.
You could not guess, with many tries, why Mudgee
people stayed away
When Himself spoke !
You would have thought that they would swarm
from bench and bed, from bar and dray,
To hear him joke !
For, far away as Mudgee is, and simple in its daily
run,
It let you see,
By choosing John to make its laws, that it can
take a piece of fun
Right merrily.
But yet the fact is as above —these very people
stayed away,
And let Him talk];
They stood at bench, or lay in bed, or drauk and
smoked at bar and dray,
And let Him walk !
You’d best give up, and let Himself with modesty
explain the cause
Of this strange slight—
Well, then He says His mirthful words and looks
were lost because it was
Saturday night!
So thus we see that though a man can beat the
Pops, and with his wit
Make people shout,
He must sit down one night a week in Mudgee,
and with grief admit
He’s badly “ out. ”
TIMOTHY.
A little bird sitting on high in a tree
Was singing ; “ He’s not as I’d like him to be !
He may be, as Gloss lately lectured, a poet,
Or may be, as many say, able to sway
The crowd to his side on a theme of the day ;
But still there is nothing great-hearted about him
And, pose as he will, there is reason to doubt him !
I know it, I know it, I know it!”
Stonewalling In New Zealand.
Dear Bulletin, —The Land of the Maori and
the Moa suffers a deathly depression, but
the New Zealand legislator still cracks his
little joke and collects his little honorarium.
He is always gay. Dick Reeves, the lengthy
representative of the mining district of
Tnangahua, thus recently unbosomed himself in
the House on the Foul Brood in Bees Bill
“ Hon. members,” said the cheerful Richard,
“ were familiar with the little busy bee. In
childhood’s happy hour they had loved that thrill-
ing hymn by Dr. Watts, beginning ‘ Twinkle,
twinkle, little bee ! ’ The bee was a subject of
vast national importance ; no family circle should
be without one or more. The bee was of the same
family as the ant ; some bees were aunts—others
uncles. The aunt was the most gifted reptile ; it
built palaces, made streets, had its own sanitary
arrangements and Parliamentary institutions,
though he trusted it did not indulge in that most
reprehensible practice—stonewalling. He entreated
the earnest attention of hon. members ; the hap-
piness of unborn millions was bound up
in the Foul Brood in Fleas —in Bees Bill.
The bee was a docile beast, more tractable than
the dog even : the latter bit with his front moiety,
and could therefore see and choose where to plant
its sting; the bee bit with its latter end, and, con-
sequently, with less discrimination. Therefore,
the cultivation of the bee was more important
than that of the dog. True, the dog had a medi-
cinal property. (A voice: "What medicinal
property?”) Bark! Hon. members might have
heard of a gentleman named Napoleon Buona-
parte, He was dead ! He was born in a town
called Corsica. Now, what was Corsica noted
for? For locusts and honey. As a boy, Master
Buonaparte was suckled on these things. He used
to go out into the wilderness and live for 40 days
and 40 nights on wild locusts and honey. (Mr,
Levestam, a Hebrew: "Yon de Baptist did.”)
His hon. friend was right, John the Baptist did
the same thing, and look what a man John was !
He cut off the head of King Herod, and placed it
on a charger called Mazeppa. This was the effect
of a honey diet. (Great interruption ) He would
implore hon. gentlemen not to treat this great
subject in a spirit of levity. Could we but extir-
pate the Foul Brood and bring our young men up
on honey, we could rear Baptists and Napoleons
of our own, superior to the imported articles.
He would not go so far as to say that had
this Bill been law the first Napoleon would
have been with us now. The bee was intelligent
and had commercial instincts. In the district he
had the honour to represent they put boxes, which
they sold as containing ljlb. of honey, into the
bees’ den. In these boxes each bee laid just one
pound of honey, not one grain more or less, thus
affording to the vendor a slight additional profit
on the bee’s labour. There were three kinds of
bee known to conchologists—the humble, the
bumble, and the queen. The humble bee was of
unobtrusive disposition; the bumble wasn’t—it
was a kind of bee beadle. (Interruption.) He
stood or fell by his facts. The queen was so called
because she did no work and ate nearly all the
honey. There had lately been an importation of
the humble—he should say the bumble—perhaps,
however, it was the humble-bee into Canterbury.
This had so materially increased the clover that
the farmers there were now living in clover.” At
this stage Mr. Reeves debouched to a considera-
tion of the stupendous influence which honey
exercised on the morals of the human race. Hon.
members might have heard of Naples, so called
because it was the birthplace of the game known
as Nap. (Marchant, M.P. for Taranaki, rose to
order,) Mr. Reeves glanced at Mr. Marchant
with a look in which surprise, indignation,
wounded honour, injured patriotism, and other
things struggled for precedence. He was grieved
and pained that the hon. member for Taranaki,
of all persons, should interrupt his few and con-
densed remarks. Everyone knew that the hon.
gentleman had a number of bees in his—in his—
(Voice : “ Bonnet! ”)—constituency. In Canter-
bury, as before said, a gentleman had introduced
the bumble bee. What was the result ? (Here
several agriculturists in the gallery had apoplectic
symptoms in their endeavours to follow the result.)
Mr. Reeves frisked away from results and affirmed,
slowly, sadly, solemnly, “ Honey, sir, comes spon-
taneously and is produced from flowers.” The
Foul Brood was as important as the Californian
thistle or- Codlin moth. (A voice : “ What are
you giving us ?”) He was talking of the fluke in
bees. We all hoped to goto Canaan, which was a
land flowing with milk and honey. Honey was
the finest possible thing for a cold ; honey, whisky,
and water—or without water. There would be
no colds in Canaan. (Levestam : “ You vill be
varm in Canaan !”) He humbly trusted so. He
had at least endeavoured to do his duty to this
Foul Brood before him. (Interruption.) He had
said nothing which he need withdraw. The Foul
Brood he alluded to was the Bill. The Queen of
England was very fond of Athol brose. What
was Athol brose? Why a mixture —a most in-
vidious mixture —of honey, oatmeal, and whisky.
Could we only extirpate this Foul Brood, the
humblest peasant in the land might sit beneath
the shade of his own fig-tree, in the stillness of the
starless night, and quaff generous draughts of
Athol brose. Here Mr. Reeves addressed himself
to the subject of Scottish heather, tearfully de-
manding its acclimatization as being the very best
bee-producing herb. At the close of his second
hour Reeves was rapidly losing himself in poetic
frenzy, as he pictured New Zealand’s argosies,
deep-laden with honey, sailing Britain-wards in
order to supply her Majesty with material for
Athol brose. He is expected to reach the Cali-
fornian thistle in a week’s time. Ovi.


Personal Items.
The Queen gets stout—Guinness’s.
Edison, the electrician, is almost totally
deaf.
Mr. Phil May, of The Bulletin, leaves
for Italy by the Orizaba.
Cardinal Moran was for some years pro-
fessor of Hebrew in Rome.
The Pope always dines alone. So do we.
We like to be alone with the turkey.
The la*e Buckshot Forster, on some occa-
sions, appeared in public without his socks.
Von Moltke has invented a new punch.
It consists of champagne, hot tea, and sherry.
King William of Holland is afflicted with
stone. The Prince of Wales is afflicted with 18.
The Prince of Whales is beginning to
deserve his title. He’s getting as fat as a whale.
Sir William Clarke seldom attends a
theatre, and when he does the baronet usually
dozes through the performance.
Mr. Sydney .Jamieson, a son of the well-
known Sydney soft-goods merchant, Mr. J. S.
Jamieson, has jusb taken his M.B. degree at
Edinburgh University.
Mr. Brunker, the new N.S.W. Minister
for Lands, was born in Newcastle, N.S.W. He
commenced life as a butcher at Maitland, and is,
we believe, a teetotaller.
The richest heiress in America is Mias
Nellie Gould, the daughter of Jay Gould, who at
her father’s death will come in for perhaps six
millions of pounds sterling.
The Queenslander suggests that the
clergy be paid by results. The journal does not
see the grimness of its own irony. That they are
engaged on pease-work is the parsons’ pet pretence.
The Rock, a London Church of England
organ, says it is a scandal and a degradation to
have a man of Bishop Barry’s intellect condemned
to live at the Antipodes. Talk of Imperial
Federation after that!
The mother of the present German Em-
press is confined in a madhouse. She wanted to
become the wife of Louis Napoleon, when he was
president, and would have done so but for the
opposition of Queen Victoria.
Sir Henry Wrenfordsley, whom the in-
flamed Purves denounced as a “journeyman
judge,” cuts little jokes and professes to be “a
sort of workingman on the Bench.” One of the
Knights of Labour, apparently.
Constable Sewell, who was present at the
exhumation of Deniehy’s bones, has been doing
street-duty in Bathurst for the past 34 years, and
was present at the execution of the men whose
bones and boots were disturbed by the “ diggers.”
Colonel Disney, retiring Commander of
the army in Victoria, never used a big, big D.
during his five years of inactive service. His
successor, Colonel Brownrigg, is also a well-con-
ducted and domestic kind of warrior, whose harm-
less weakness is amateur theatricals
The rumour that the Czarewitch of Russia
will marry a daughter of “Wales is probably
well-founded. They are sufficiently consanguine-
ous, being first cousins, and already having one
common aunt in the Duchess of Edinburgh. How
these royal personages do love one another !
Baron Julius Reuter is 70 years old, and has
been hard at work for 50 years. He is well and
healthy, and each day is fully occupied with hard
work including a constitutional walk of five miles.
He has, however, we notice, in his old age left the
more burdensome sorts of lying to the other
■cablemen.
Premier Parkes’friend who “ would not
give £lO for the best picture ever painted ” is
mated with a well-known wealthy Irish-Victonan-
Colo Dist who once gave utterance to the sentiment
that he “ wouldn't pick Shakespeare s works out
of the gutter. Give me ‘ Handy Andy or Rory
O’More,’ them’s the books for me.’
Another ancient white native,. Mrs. Mary
Elizabeth Graham, daughter of William Wilson,
who came out with Governor Hunter as a mid-
shipman, and after whom, it is alleged, Wilson s
Promontory was named, has just died at Liver-
pool N S.W., aged 84. She leaves 72 children,
grandchildren, and great-grandchildren.
One of the latest English sensations is the
spectacle of Lord Hinton, the dissipated son of an
■earl, playing an organ in the street and wearing
round his neck a placard, inscribed . I a
Viscount Hinton, eldest son of Earl Poulett, and
am utterly destitute.” Probably he means desti
tute of brains, like the rest of the hereditary aris-
tocracy. .
The reports published at the time (Oct.
1865) of the magisterial inquiry into the causes
■attending the death of Daniel Henry Demehy show
that the unfortunate journalist lived some hours
after reaching the hospital at Bathurst. The ex-
ipenses of his funeral were defrayed—we are m-
Formed-by Mr. J. N. MTntosb, the solicitor,
‘who is still alive and hearty.
The food of the Sultan of Turkey is
cooked by one man and his aids. It is prepared
silver vessels, and each vessel is sealed by a slip
of paper and a stamp after the meal is cooked.
These seals are broken in the presence of the
'Sultan by the High Chamberlain, who takes a
’spoonful of each dish before the Sultan tastes it.
The annual expenditure of the Sultan s household
is over £8,000,000.
A Sydney “ journalist” applied for the
•N.S.W. assistant-hangmanship the other day. It
■ is, of course, quite unnecessary to indicate the
i newspaper to which he is attached. However, he
1 didn’t get the position, which was conferred upon
a cabman. The frequency with which such ap-
• pointments are filled from the ranks of Sydney
policemen ‘and cabmen points a valuable social
-moral which should not be overlooked by any
‘ citizen who ever goes out after dark and has not
purchased a bulldog-revolver.
When Melbourne Age was booming up a
f few years ago, David Syme was careful to record in
a conspicuous place in his paper, the daily increase
■in its circulation. At 12.30 one night he was dis-
turbed by a loud bang at the door of his sanctum,
■and demanded “ Whatthe was the matter. He
■ was asked togo down stairs, as someone at the front
■ door wanted him immediately, byme hurried
■ down stairs, where he met a discharged reporter
Who said he had “just called to enquire what the
circulation of the Age would be to day. David
• saw the joke, and appreciated it, and the reporter s
heart was made glad, by the offer of a billet.
••I have found Mr. W. F. Caunt’s Phosphorisedlron
.Quinine Tonio superior to any others I have used. It is
an excellent nervine. —Yours, Nellie Palmer. ' Prepared
nnlv bv W F. CAUNT. The Pharmaoy, Camperdown.
'Obtainable from all Chemists -Take no- substitute
POLITICAL
POINTS
The political situation in Victoria—£3oo
a year and perquisites.
Heavy weather for the N.S.W. Mtois'er
of Mines out Broken Hill way. Abigail brewmg
During last week’s big thunderstorm the
lightning struck two printing-offices in Sydney.
From this it is plain that the lightning still re-
members Ananias and Sapphira.
Mr. Brunker says he joined the Parkes
Ministry on condition that he was allowed a
“freehand.” The implication which protrudes
here is rough on the rank and file of his colleagues.
Premier Parkes says that Mr. S. E. Lees
is “a correct, trustworthy and faithful represen-
tative of the people.” Mr. Lees is one of the
PRAYERS FOR RAIN—ANOTHER ASPECT.
“What is this Reverend Gentleman doing ? Why, he is praying that, during the
time the Gas Company run short of coal, Heaven may send a Full Moon every
evening beginning at 7.30. sharp—carriages may be ordered at 11 o’clock.”
pig-vote Parkes party. He is a correct, trust-
worthy, careful and faithful, not to say dunder-
headed, representative of the Orange lodge.
The first recorded scheme of Land
Nationalisation was devised and carried out by
Joseph in Egypt- There was an irrigation system
wqrking in that same country several hundred
years B.C.
Exeter Hall is becoming frank at last.
Two speakers at a recent conference there advo-
cated foreign missions on the ground that they
prepared the way- for peaceful and cheap annexa-
tion of the lands of barbarous peoples.
In the trial experiments with the great
guns of H.M.S. Benbow, at Woolwich Arsenal, it
was found that every time each gun is fired in
action the outlay in ammunition will be at least
£lOO ! Ob, that our enemy would buy a gun !
Yet another big N.S.W. Ministerial scan-
dal —in reference to city property—is in course of
incubation. The s mount of profit, involved is
.about £70,000. and the syndicate have begun
operations by “ nobbling” a newspaper or two.
Premier Parkes has been picqicked at
Clontarf by his constituents. There is a fine sense
of the eternal fitness of, things displayed in taking
the old man to Clontarf. He owes as much to
Clontarf as he does to Kiama, and that’s saying a
good deal.
At Sammy Lees’ Penrith meeting a voice
chipped in to Premier Parkes, who, as usual, was
helping a thick-and thin supporter —“ What about
the tanner ?” “ Well,” said the Hairy Bismarck,
“ I know a tanner ” but he could not proceed
any further for the loud laughter his remark qc-
casloned. The audience thought he was alluding
to that hiitorical c-noked sixpence he picked up
the day after he landed in Australia.
Mr. Julia t Ashton, as President of the
N.S. Wales Art Society, at the Society’s annual
dinner the other day asked the Pokes’ Ministry
for their “moral support).” Th : s is about the
nastiest jibe thrown at) the Parkes Ministry since
it has been in office.
Owing to th 9 vetoing of a Bill by a Do-
minion Government, Lower Canada now talks of
secession and threatens to join the U.S. English
sovereignty is now but the shadow of a name.
The London Standard advises Upper Canada
and England to fight “ if necessary.”
The South Atutralian Speaker refuses to
wear the orthodox horsehair wig “ so long as God
favours him with a good head of hair ’’—greatly to
the disgust of several fossil politicians who favour
that hoary institution. These latter live in hopes,
however. Speaker Bray is a married man.
The N.S. W. Givernment sent a Norden-
fedb gun to Newcastle to encourage the miners on
strike. Whoever orders that Nordenfeldt gun to
be fired, no matter what the provocation, will
sound the death-knell of Imperialism and land-
lords, and knights, and shoddy generally, in this
country.
A majority of the Victorian Supreme
Court Judges hold that Governor Loch is not a
full-fledged viceroy, and that he can’t do anything
of a “ vice-regal ” nature except in newspaper re-
ports and advertisements, It grieves us to find
that the dear old “Vice regal Command Night ”
.is only a grovelling fiction, originated in the
heated imaginations of theatrical managers.
Mr. Ernest Hunter, one of the members
for the Burke, forcibly illustrates the anomalous
working of the Queensland Payment of Members’
Act. Two hundred pounds, the maximum amount
for a session, has, before the session properly com-
menced, been drawn by that member in terms of
the Act. He is a resident of Croydon, but could
not go there and return in the short recess. He,
therefore, lived in Brisbane, and was on this ac-
count entitled to the same allowances as if he
attended Parliament. No one can tell him how
he is now to pull through what promises to be a
long session.
The staffs of the various Sydney Foreign-
trade papers are now “standing by” for the
order : “ Right-about face and march for Protec-
tion ! ” It is a notorious fact that on the staff of
the Daily Telegraph, barring Editor Ward and
Mr. Pulsford, the commercial editor (who, by the
way, is stipendiary secretary of the N.S.W.. Free-
trade Association), there is not a man who is not a
Protectionist. In the S.M. Herald office an
almost similar state of things exists. The Even-
ing News, which has a keen nose for a decaying
political body, is now right on the job in trying to
accelerate the exit of Parkes.
The B shop of Manchester’s committee
have delivered themselves of an excellent joke by
inviting the British clergy to “take up sympa-
thetically the study of Socialism, with a view of
finding its proner remedies.” We regard the
Litany and Children’s Catechism as exceedingly
proper remedies. The Church carefully studied
this subject before drawing up a beautiful little
prayer for the Royal family, and instructing in-
fants to do their duty in that station of life to
which it pleases God to call them. If Man-
chester’s committee can find anything to beat the
Catechism—well, we shall smile. We are smiling
a little, even as it is.
Australia pays a pretty fair price for Ini'
gubernatorial whistle. Loch, of Victoria, draws
£lO,OOO per annum; Carington scoops £7000;
Kitts-Boots-Musgrave drains Queensland of £5OOO ;
the S.A. figurehead lifts £5000; the Western
Australian. £3000; the Tasmanian, £3500; and
he of N.Z £5OOO. Reckoning in the titled
flunkeys and other hangers-on with the allowances
made to them and to their masters, would make a
total of something like £BO,OOO a year. That the
money is well worth the services it secures seems
certain when we consider that Australia’s total
population barely reaches 4,000,000, and the man
who bosses the United States, with their 50,000,000,
receives only £lO,OOO per annum.
A correspondent of Sydney D.T. asks that
the Australian Governments request England to
exchange Heligoland for German New Guinea,
and at the same time buy out the Dutch so as to
bring the whole of New Guinea under the rule of
Great Britain. Now, as the German game is
evidently to annex Holland and all her colonir s,
including Java and Dutch New Guinea, it isn’t
at all likely that she would abandon so magnificent
a scheme merely for the purpose of acquiring
Heligoland, which, as it is located close to her
coast, she can take by force of arms whenever she
likes to set about it. Apropos, it is cabled that
the German Government have decided to con-
siderably increase the number of their ironclads,
in connection with the German colonial policy.
Principal Grant lectured the other night
at Sydney Y.M.C.A, Hall on “A Canadian's
view of Australia.” He began by saying that as
a Prebbyterian he disbelieved in titular distinc-
tions —and yet had Sydney been raked with a fine-
tooth comb for knights and sich there could hardly
have been more present There was a knight in
the chair, another on the platform, another to pro-
pose a vote of thanks and a fourth to second it.
Under these circumstances, and as proceedings
were opened with prayer, there was a distinct pro-
mise from the very outset of a first-class Tory
oration, and so the event proved. Principal
Grant said that he didna like anti-Chinese legisla-
tion, and he didna approve of Union miners pre-
venting blacklegs from supplanting them, and he
did believe in Imperial Federation and the Royal
family, &c.. &c.
The Sydney Sunday Times, which is now
controlled by Mr. Evans, a merchant, is coming
round very nicely indeed. It will be remembered
that when, under the editorship of Mr. Edward
Ellis, the Times made a series of trenchant,
not to say savage and effective, attacks on
Premier Parkes. that individual, though chal-
lenged to vindicate his character in court,
showed a remarkable unwillingness to take
any action. In the result, the authorities
whom Parkes controls, instead of taking the
manly course of filing a criminal information
against the Times for libel in rc the M‘Namara case,
adopted what, under the circumstances, looked like
a cowardly dodge—they got the Times runners
summoned for selling papers on Sunday. But all
that is to be changed now : the Times is, we
notice, to be henceforth only a moderately Protec-
tionist paper. It announces that it will in future
not deal in “personalities,” and it prints a
lengthy article in big type eulogising Parkes for
his services to the N.S.W. Freetrade party, and
pointing out how grateful the shoddymongers
ought to be to the good old man!! This is
“moderate Protection” with a vengeance. As
both the Sydney Sunday papers are now grovel
ling to the Foreign-trade party, it’s just about time
that a radical paper were started to cut into their
circulation.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they oan get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Perfumery Co.’s
Stands in the Melbourne exhibition. All Melbourne
la on this Snent
Biehard Anthony Proctor.
He strove to hold a forward way
Upon the sea that lies between
The coast where Ignorance has sway
And that where Knowledge reigns as Queen.
Behind upon the cloudy shore
The weeping ghosts of Law and Creed
Cried out to him to urge no more,
But lead the lives that others lead.
And sometimes, looking round, he seemed
Unto himself a man who tried,
Awake, to test a dream he dreamed.
So true the friendship at his side,
So true the love that covered him
While dwelling on the cloudy shore,
That sometimes, while his eyes were dim,
He said that he would urge no more.
For voices from his youth grew loud
And handgrasps stirred again, and they
Who spoke and held were of the crowd
From whom his mind had passed away.
And to whatever climes of heat
Or cold he went on his new way,
He felt no truer hearts would beat
Than those who called to him to stay.
This is the wearing, constant fear
That hangs around the man whose knees
Are bent to bear his soul from here
To realms his soaring fancy sees.
He loves the high, the higher yet,
The highest in the realm of mind,
But this does not make him forget
The weeping eyes he leaves behind;
And so, while passing from the scene
Of mortal work and mortal tears,
He grasps the form of what has been
Throughout the round of former years.
The place he goes to brightly glows,
And loud acclaim salutes his ears,
But what’s the use of praise from those
Who’ve not been with us in our tears ?
These are the thoughts that have made those
Who struck across the ocean blue
To lands whose Fancy brightly glows,
Go back and live as others do.
But Proctor rose from out the griefs
Of single lives, and more and more
Pushed on, and left the old beliefs
With those upon the clouded shore,
And when the end came, and his barque
Surrendered to the ocean’s might,
He kept his back unto the dark,
And kept his face unto the light.


r ii ,t & a^ J *^ssm
/ l I/'-/ 7r s J. dm*
I / >v| I |j[ I, ~ u /0
s 4/ *7/ 4 sr„*is ’«/ v * *’9** d *‘ 9 Z
Wa*e /**,«« '«/ '-t?*'** A J
Jytot,,/*?/ cJfio , 9 S'*ncl y«r s<>'?*'
Of Ook * 3/ac/e//oa> u>lofc« ***9 ? ™
f Co/;>y
tfe-aSy boots/
" “~ 1
yy ,_ A'Jry / nfapytr 'f |
e s e 70~
/ '39/ppj /fpy Cl/ ex// <x/~CI V/'
(fy UR
fy 7<v \b
y/- ,w/ f N
h I>j> 1 >j> s *'*
•<;>
6 ,•
j«h /jf /
W?^i\\\
m ftf?
II r
Hl'l .
jw - f
a e ?
v 4
" Oth borfer 1 1 oJ]
tf.lU^'V?'
ds vo«J b a i< t-
M**i_
n° / ==_
/tus7ra 7/Up Ba-i-cC. ,3 11-i? c< o«b /-
7>e- of
7us7 y7 ’/is /7~^>
■ eVC- e ? <2 Y*o ppa*' £<=
'ti / Citts '/s.*. /is/- Sc< 6U7- J-&C e?cc/ <r c~ ,/i^
1 Vy ~ «w.w»y ——— J®
' "o i
oe<j 0 e<j <<f G v ,
"s rcc r/ ° Qi 4 tJ,//
O/ Tfy <t "
Du* # e tit y /■/ 0 &
Prospecting’ for a Poet—A Collection of Literary Remains.
“SELECTIONS CRAVE AND CAY.”


NEW SOUTH WALES (to Permanent Artilleryman Parkes): “NOW, PUT THAT UGLY THING DCWN. IF I CANT MANAGE MY SWEETHEART, I CAN EASILY CALL A POLICEMAN, AND YOU'R WAVING YOUR GUN
ABOUT WILL MAKE GEORDIE WILD, AND HE CAN FIGHT BETTER THAN YOU CAN."


Claremont, Darling-hurst Road, Sydney.—A private
Medioal and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant,
(or the reoeption and systematic treatment of patients of
both sexes. The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, derive the great advantages of a oonstant medi-
oal supervision with the oare and attention of a trained
nursing- staff Pot partlnnlar* apply to tht, lady SnpeWn
tendent*.
SWEET BOKO\ia, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price 3s. 6d.,
ss. and 10s. Post Free to any addresß in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-street Fast,
MEl.BOrwv*
Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patented Arti
fical Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing cures have been effeoted. Send for 132’
paged illustrated book containing “ Essay on Deafness,’
llustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
from Dootors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
oured by these Drums, and who recommend them.—Dr.
VIOBOLSON B 5 Wii.mii Btb«t,
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTB UMENTS.
Special attention is called to the followin
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever
factored
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be
celled at £36.
ex
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Ester
Organ Company repeat that, while they have com
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
nrst-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
cheap ) Organs now being offered, and to main*
tain their reputation for superiority of tone work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W. H PALING ft GO , Ltd.
356 GEORGE STREET Wo doors from P.Q t
Society
Boll[?]
[?]
On a recent Saturday afternoon the Art
Society of N S W. threw open its rooms to ticket-
holders and indulged in the luxury of a private view.
1 he only thing to be seen was the atmosphere, which
was thick enough to be cut with a yard-axe. The
remainder of the show was heat, chaos, spring-
bonnets, crush, cheap scent, and fashionable
squeezing. The pretence of inspecting the works
of art was too hollow to be entertained even
by the few who really went there for that
purpose. The Art Society’s rooms are the
worst ventilated in Sydney—worse than many
theatres. In the evening the ceremony of sup-
plicating for the Government grant came off.
J-his humiliating ceremony, which always makes
an outsider very ill indeed, took the form of a
dinner, at which Premier Parkes, and Messrs,
llurns and Inglis, as representing the Govern-
ment, and Sir Alfred Stephen, as representing
the Trustees of the National Picture Gallery,
rallied up and allowed themselves to be “ mar-
maladed ’—merely in order that Art should be
allowed to appear as a mendicant, cap in hand, at
the door of the Treasury, instead of appealing to
Public sentiment from the necessity of i ts own being,
u cii j m a democratic country and we pretend to
be filled to the brim with national aspirations, and
y®? . w ® flock the while at the coat-tails of effete
officialdom and fomgn vice-regaHty. Mr. Justice
Williams, lecturing the other evening at Mel-
bourne, said he despised men of the class who,
taking their tone from fashionable clubs, “ paid
their guineas to have a sniff of Governors and
Governors’ wives.” Yet this is the sort of “tone”
that too often seems to find special favour with
the Sydney art world, from certain bright lumi-
naries thereof down to the talented individual
who ices puddings and frosts cakes under guber-
natorial patronage. The Bulletin will endeavour
to say something about the work of the artists
next week.
* * *
Broken Hill WA3 very much en fete during
the recent visit of Governor Caringbon, and
citizens of the Silver City who had been Radicals
up to the time of H.E.’s arrival, veered round and
proceeded to reverentially eat orange-peel that his
feet had trodden on. One of the incidents of the
occasion was a disgraceful row as to which hotel
the vice-regal party were to stay at. The Baron
was driven to the Grand, and very properly re-
fused to allow himself to be torn away by main
force and carried to the rival house, which had
been fixed upon as the scene of the public banquet.
Then some of the partizans of the Home of York,
who had been under the impression that the vice-
regalities would sleep at their favourite e stablish-
ment as well as banquet there, at once uttered a
war-whoop, and swore that there should be at
their place no banquet, and no Governor, and no
nothink. However, the matter was at last ar-
ranged amicably.
* • *
A fashion-writer informs U 3 that the even-
ing dress will go no lower. That’s palpable.
* - w
Poetry is two-foot lengths of the English
language written by a man who is respected after
he is dead. It is slightly incoherent and is used
for obituaries in the Even Noose. The following
item from the London Sunday Times— the
journal run by Princess Midas—has some of the
characteristics of poetry, but the man who did it
won’t be respected either dead or alive, which
proves that it isn’t the real article :
Mrs. Shaw, la belle siffl,euse, handsome and happy as
ever, gave some of her marvellous whistling performances
clear and faultless and free, like a nightingale playing on
the piccolo, and the plaintive charm of melodies in' the
minor was well demonstrated by an accomplished example
of Irish vivacity and variety.
“A nightingale playing on the piccolo” is im-
mense. The man who wrote that would lend a
cracked trombone to an angel.
Mrs. William Rattenburg, of Cook River,
Queensland, has been delivered of four children at
a birth. All doing well, barring Ratbenburg,
who doesn’t cobbon to quadruplets.
* * *
Our dearly beloved brother. Bishop Barry
—bless him! —thinks that the time has arrived
for “ recognising the position ” of Nonconformist
shepherds. O ! yes, dear friends, these inferior
toilers in the Master’s service must have positions
given to them. As things are at present the dis-
senting parson’s sermon carries no weight. His
terewths have not been satisfactorily established.
And although he may get to Heaven through the
side garden entrance his bishop doesn’t come for-
ward to welcome him, and he is not included in
the Board’s own particular set. There is nothing
so desirable as “ position ” in the Christian
Church. We ourselves have worked steadily on and
on for a position in our little tabernacle, and at
last we have got there. We take up the collection.
« * .
There are two matrimonial agencies to
provide business for one Divorce Court in Mel-
bourne.
• • *
A disagreement has arisen in the Woman’s
Suffrage Society at Melbourne. The chairwoman
recently ruled babies out of order.
» •
A certain Melbourne brewery-advertise-
ment soars into the regions of the sublime. It
consists of a flaring placard of great dimensions
on which Governor Loch is represented sprawling
on the counter of a bar-room while Sir William
Robinson waves an empty glass above his head
and Baron Carington perches himself on an up-
ended beer-barrel. The attached legend reads,
“fill’em up again,” and is, in our opinion, an in-
sult to the Imperial system, and a low attempt to
cast mud upon the Established Church. The firm
that would fix up such an advertisement must be
lost to all feelings of reverence for the emblems of
British greatness, and we shouldn’t even wonder
if their faith wa3 loose upon such fundamental
points as Jonah and the whale.
» . •
Things are getting healthy for vice regality
beneath the Southern Cro3s. Thus aS. A.,
paper
At a recent dinner of a farmer's society, an old resident
not far from Kapund* proposed the health of “ His Excel-
lency the Governor.” This was the speech with which he
horrified the Conservatives amongst his hearers : “ Gentle-
men cha-arge your glass-ess 1” (Interval.) “ I ’ave to
propose the ’elth of the Guvernor. It's tints he ivas
a-shifted ! Here’s to the ’elth of the Guvernor.”
* * *
An advertiser in a Melbourne piper offers
to marry any domesticated respectab’e female
under 30 who feels agreeable. He will have the
option of facing out 18 breach-of promise cases or
becoming an exaggerated Mormon.
* * *
AN hat sort of a convulsion would take place
were the founder of the Sydney Morninu Herald
to arise and find in the paper a sporting column,
and in that sporting column such a sentence as the
following, we leave to the imagination of those
who remember old times in Sydney :
Mr. W. Bennett had been booking a wager, and inad-
vertently plaoed his pocketbook in the outside breast-
pocket of his coat, whereupon a respectably-dressed
young fellow attempted to extraot it, but in doing so he
was detected by Mr. Bennett, who immediately hauled off
and landed the thief a hit under the ear that brought him
to grass.
Now, Mr. Fairfax, if you are going to give us the
language of sport, please let us have it properly.
In the sacred name of Ikey Moses, never let us,
we implore you, hear again of “a hit under the
ykt‘ ■ “ >le u pder the ear ” —that is the phrase.
We like not this piebald compromise, this nervous
paltering with the vernacular of that noblest of
institutions, the P.R.
* * *
The Commissioners have refused to allow
any but temperance drinks to be sold at an oyster-
stall in the Melbourne Exhibition. Who says
oysters and lemonade? Ugh !
* * *
A Broken Hill daily, of 11th September,
had a report of the departure of Lord Carington,
HE DEALS WITH THE FELLOW ACROSS THE STREET.
SERGEANT: "WHY THE DEVIL DIDN'T YOU SALUTE THE GOVERNOR?”
SENTRY: "OH SALUTE THE GOVERNOR BE BLOWED. WHY DOESN’T HE
BUY HIS BOOTS FROM ME INSTEAD OF FROM THAT MUTTON-HEADED
BLUCHER?"
and to the end of this report the weary proof-
reader appended a grateful “ Thank God ! ” The
proof was sent to the compositors, who, compo.-
like, set up the added words. When the “ revise ”
was sent to the sub-editor, he, being tired, after
the manner of sub-editors, passed it after a very
cursory examination, and the paper came out in
the morning with “Lord Carington then took his
departure, Thank God.” Over those two little
words “thank God ” a once happy home has been
broken up and the peaceful quiet of several re-
spectable newspaper men has been punched in the
eye and otherwise maltreated.
* * *
A “converted” South Australian abo-
riginal sang a solo at a big Salvation pow-wow in
Melbourne Town Hall one night last week. We
heard the song and are now reconciled to the fact
that so few original niggers outlive our civilising
influence.
• * *
That funny idea of Lord Carington’s about
the 12,000 English lives, valued at a million times
12,000 times £12,000, which England is ready to
expend in defending BananaJand against the
I ranch and Russians, has been causing some
amusement up North. The natives think that
Baron Carington must be a real good sort—that
he must have a keen appreciation of humour.
Imagine a * humorous Governor ! ’ Musgrave
couldn t have done it to save his soul. It reminds
one of that hymn that goes “ Ten thousand times
ten thousand.” The ladies sing it enthusiastically.
Fancy the dears chiming up over ten thousand
times ten thousand, when most of them have a
vague idea that two and two make five.
* » »
Another good illusion gone. A woman at
Warrnambool (Vie.) has a tongue two inches
longer than the average, and she cannot speak
at all.
* * *
The lofty moral elevation of the silver
forks of the earth made itself manifest lasb week
at Ballarat Police Court. A young gentleman
had just been committed for trial on a charge of
embezzlement. He wore an elegant tail-coat and
light pants and he had scent on his handkerchief.
Along with him was a bleary drunk who was
going up because he hadn’t 7s. 6d. to pay his fine
—a dismal drunk covered with coal-dust and
caked with mud, who thoughtfully caressed a
swollen and damaged no3e and who wore a tuft of
hair ca-efully trained to stand out through a hole
in his dismantled hat. They were both waiting
to be removed to gaol, and as they waited the
alleged embezzler sniffed scornfully at his com-
panion in misfortune, who smiled an unhealthy
smile in return and tried to look confidential.
This smile was too much for the silver fork, and,
shuddering violently, he produc’d 7s fid. “ I’m
nob going to be seen on the way to gaol with an
animal like you,” he said, in accents of disgust;
*' here, pay your fine and clear out and wash your-
self.” The amazed loafer cleared out accordingly,
and his benefactor went contentedly to gaol
without any mouldy drunk to taint the balmy
odour of the morning breeze.
» •
Three weeks ago a Melbourne man named
Anderson went out for the purpose of being
shaved, and has not yet returned bo his wife and
family. It is presumed that Anderson told the
barber he wanted to catch the next train.
* # *
Conductor Cowen is just too nice for any-
thing in the eyes of the lady members of the Ex-
hibition choir. Nearly 700 bouquets were fired at
his defenceless head on the occasion of the first
rendering of his composition. “ Ruth,” by those
dear creatures. Wielders of the baton are always
favourites with the females. Look at the police-
men.
* * *
Goldsbrough and Co., of Melbourne, and
Mort and Co., of Sydney, Australia’s two greatest
wool-broking firms, have amalgamated and will
carry on business under the style of Goldsbrough,
Morb and Co. Mort and Company, who are
careful and systematic people themselves, have
married into a careful family. Some years ago
the whole of Goldsbrough’s large staff of clerks
were kept back every night for three months to
discover an error of twopenc e-halfpenny which
had crept into the half-yearly balance.
* w
It is wondered, by the way, how the ladies
aforesaid smuggled that enormous number of
bouquets into the concert-hall unobserved. Those
who have studied the breadth and depth of the
average choir-girl’s smile can guess easily enough.
The old scare about the end of the world
being at hand broke out afresh lately in Birming-
ham. Some people spent the time in prayer,
others distributed their goods in charity, while
three old women proved the virtue of modern
thought by giving themselves up to the police for
protection.
The Sydney Record (Church of England)
calls on the public to pub do v n such Sabbath
desecration as that which it alleges took place a
few Sundays ago, when a Jewish merchant gave a
picnic to a theatrical company down the harbour ! !
Now. what would the Record say, we wonder, if
the Jews constituted a majority of the population
and determined on putting down cricket-matches
on Saturdays ? Our pious contemporary evidently
wants the godly Premier, who so enthusiastically
“put down” Richard Anthony Proctor, to at
once let a contract for pulling the teeth and clip-
ping the ears of the Hebrew who dares to enjoy
his special day of rest in his own way.
* * *
Commissioner Howard, of the Salvation
Harmy, who has just returned to Melbourne
with despatches from General Booth, is a lucky
man When in Rome the Commissioner raised
his hat to the King of Italy, and that potentate
mistaking the faked-up pilgrim for a real British
officer, replied by taking off his crown and waving
his sceptre in the most affable way. Inspired by
this beautiful story we intend to join the Harmy,
buy a balvation suit, and then prowl around until
we catch Ciringbon’s eye. Perhaps he will tin
us a gracious smile.
The Minister for Instruction in Queens-
land permits Slate soho-l-teachers to show the
evils of drink by means of object-lessons. This
proves that the educational mind is advancing in
that colony. Not so long ago the teacher who
drank even outside of school hours was said to
cause scandal.
* * *
The combustible nature of woman has
again found vent. Mrs. Andrews, of Wood
Lrreen (Eng.), a lady in affluent circumstances and
possessed of many noble traits of character, was
overhauling her Husband’s desk when he was out,
and by dint of holding his blotting-pad before a
mirror she read the words, “My dearest, ownest
darling, accompanied by the address of a young
lady whom she didn’t know, but whom she at once
set down as being a horrid thing. So she took
her umbrella and called at the House, and when
a young lady came to the door she hit her on her
red right ear and called her a cat, and then she
smote her violently on her Grecian nose and prodded
her several times. Further, she gave her one with
her open hand upon the other listener, and took
away some of her hair as a clue. As the injured
girl belonged to a family that had just moved into
the house that morning, she was naturally unable
to account for this excitement, and when the
visitor had gone she had several hysterics in the
middle of the flower-bed. The damage was ulti-
mately assessed at £3 and two guineas costs
* » .
There is a pleasant little story told of a
kindly old Sydney identity, a lady of Irish birth,
long since under the daisies, who had an only son,
a brilliant lad, who afterwards made an indelible
mark on the historical page of his native land.
After he was called to the Bar, in the fulness of
her heart the old lady’s great delight was to drop
into the drapers’ shops and order “ lavender
gloves for my son the barrister.”
■* * *
I ourteen South Sea Islanders followed
the remains of a fellow-countryman with the
semi-Scotch name of M'Ali to his grave in the
Waverley (Sydney) Cemetery on Sunday last.
One of them wept bitterly as the coffin was
lowered into the grave.
* * *
a Hill End (N.S.W.) hotel there is a
powerful-looking servant girl, 23 years of age
who, until she came “to town ” a month ago, had
never heard of a school and did not know the
alphabet; her occupation was diggirig in the
min°s with her father. Her hands are of enormous
size and she is a brawny person who would be
likely to develope considerable agility with a flat-
iron. Until she arrived at Hill End she had
never seen any woman other than her mother.
> oe is of a peaceful disposition, which alone pre-
vents her tearing the house down and cleaning
oub the town. On the whole, we consider that
she is the sort of girl that a man ought to marry
right off the first chance he gets. A young lady
who has made her hands of vast proportions while
digging with the old man, and who has never
talked wibh any woman except her mother, must
be free from a good many of the small vices which
disfigure lovely woman in her civilised state.
The “well-connected ” secretary* of a N Z,
Amateur Athletic Association has skipped to
Australia, and as there is a shortage of £l7O in his
accounts the electroplate merchants do not antici-
pute a boom in the trophy business this spring.
* •
At Burkefcown (Q.) there resides an abo-
riginal lady with two Chinese husbands. The
family got on well enough for some time, but ulti-
mately the gin resolved to withdraw her softening
and improving influence from the show, and
handed m her resignation, and then her joint pro-
prietors cowhided her and hacked her about with
a razor. They were fined £lO between them, one-
half being paid over to the bruised and injured
wife, and thus a happy home has been broken up.
and two Mongols are now compelled to catchee
their own hash.
* * •
A certain newspaper remarks that the
Australian team “ are now not holding their own
in England. Judging from the “rocky” form
displayed of late by Our Boys, we are afraid that
they have been holding more than their own bv
several jugsfull. '


Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whits P*tsnt Roi.i.sd Fi.orii in the
beet in the mark* t
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
bath?. Horses and buggies for hire.
Study your own Interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whitb
Patbnt Rollbr Flour. It 1b made In the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery
The quality is exceptionally (rood, and the prine very low
Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
given for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
Dress Suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QTTITTENTON BROS.. Ill
Russell-street, MELBOURNE.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Sept. 26, 1888.
My Dear Moorabixda,—
I hear that a certain notability recently married a ser-
vant-girl. He met her at the house of the young lady to
whom he was engaged, and immediately transferred his
attentions to the queen of the kitchen. The jilted one, I
am told, merely remarks that many a man thinks he
wants a wife wheD, after all, he only wants a servant. She
says she is very glad, and hopes they will be happy. She
adds that they probably won’t be happy if Bridget per-
sists in frying the steak.
On the 20th inst. poor dear Lady Carington [immolated
herself once again on the altar of social requirements,
and was “At Home ” at 3.30 to anybody who liked to
look in and grip the vioe-regal hand and puff their
variously pronounced “’Ow do, yer ladyship?” in the
sacred atmosphere of the red “drorin" room. Lady
Carington wore a deep fawn cashmere draped over a jupe
of brown velvet, adorned with gold galoon, with which
was worn a fawn lace bonnet trimmed with peacock-green
bows and strings, tan gloves, and a peacock-green satin
parasol. Mrs. (Admiral) Fairfax wore one of the
yet novel “ Directoire ” costumes with a crimson-
poplin front and redingote of sage-green poplin
—bonnet en suite. Lady Hay, black satin and
velvet striped, with a salmon-coloured bonnet covered
with black lace and salmon plume ; Mies Windeyer, a
charming gown of creamy-white silk trimmed with
galoon, and a cluster of primroses at the waist. The re-
ception was not so largely attended a 3 u3ual— perhaps
owing to the threatening weather. Notwithstanding the
humidity of earth and ether (I patent that phrase on the
spot), a game of tennis formed one of the attractions of
the afternoon, when a young society lady in pink and
white flannel appeared to be “knocking spots” off
another society young lady in a brown skirt and scarlet
blouse.
One of the most amusing things in life is, after you have
heard the flunkies send the order along the line at a
Sydney Government House reception for “Mrs. So-and-
So.’s carriage,” to see rumbling up to you a rusty
shandridan, the horse leisurely shedding his winter coat
and bestowing some of it on the unliveried coachman,
manifestly gotten up in master’s left-off habiliments.
At the opening of the N.S.W. Art Society’s 10th annual
exhibition Lady Carington wore a handsome slate-blue
poplin with skirt and bodice-trimming of brown, dusted
with gold and finished here and there with gold tinsel
fringe, tan gloves, tan. bonnet with short brown strings
and bows of cream and brown ribbon, white fall dotted
with black, and crimson en tout cas. Her ladyship looked
exceedingly well, and has evidently gained in health by
her stay at Katocmba. Miss Myra Kemble, whose portrait
by Signor Nerli is so prominent a feature of the exhibition,
was present at the opening and was the best-dressed
woman in the gallery, wearing a close-fitting seal-brown
dress with side panel of fawn moire,' high brown bonnet
edged with beaver fur and trimmed with brown aigrette
ribbon, and short strings. With her came Pattie Browne,
also “well groomed,” in a dark-blue cloth with wide skirt-
panel, vest, collar and cuffs of white, boldly designed in
gold tinsel braid. These two frocks alone stood out,
though I particularly noticed the Very fat lady who came
in bronze brochc and high bonnet with nodding feather,
A capital story is told of the obese Marchioness who
recently lent the light of her rubicund countenance to
these parts. While seated at dinner at one of the Govern-
ment hotels (Houses, we mean), her frizz fell off into a
plate of chicken-broth upon which she was making a
vigorous assault. Her Irish wit saved her from confiuion.
,She calmly directed a waiter to remove her plate, ‘ 1 as she
would not take any more Tmir-soup.”
. I am getting tired of chronicling successful race-meet-
ings at Rosehill. Success is a positive Old Man of the Sea
out there—the committee can’t shake it off, and every
succeeding meeting goes more smoothly and is more de-
lightful than its forerunner. The Centennial Hospital
meeting, on the 19th inst., was a triumphant hooray from
the time the gates opened, and the crowd in attendance
comprised most of those who hang on the top rung of the
Sydney social ladder. And the dressing ! Lady Caring-
ton (who went up per steam-launch) wore sage green,
with washing vest buttoned with pearl buttons: bhek
hat turned up at the back with green velvet, and ornate
with sage-green ribbons and tiny yellow flowers and
foliage; white spotted fall, brown fur boa, and crimson
parasol. Her ladyship was accompanied by two well-
known Sydney ladies, one of whom wore a delicious cos-
tume of smoke grey cashmere with full white silk vest,
and grey gauze bonnet ornate with grey and white bows ;
the other dark-grey green with beaded vest, cuffs, collar,
and skirt panel and high straw bat en suite,
ornate with ribbon and velvet. Mostly every-
body wore their spring hats and frocks. The
most fashionable gown on the course was a “Directoire ’
get-up of black poplin and steel-grey silk, with which was
worn a black gauze bonnet fitted with grey ribbon and
white aigrette, a smocked grey silk parasol and grey
undressed-kid gloves, completing a tout ensemble that
left nothing to be desired. Miss Paling wore mastic-
coloured summer-cloth trimmed with striped silk. Other
shining lights in the social circles of the Beautiful Har-
bour wore striped white liberty silk, with white hat
turned up at the back with white ribbon and trimmed
with a profusion of white “snowballs” and foliage;
pale pink with a cream-lace stripe, hat of brown
straw lined with cream and weighed down
with a wreath of cream and crimson roses ; dark-
blue spotted with white, washing-silk with white
moire panel, dark-blue straw hat ornate with blue and
white corn-flowers; white silk, with white Leghorn hat
with careless cluster of souvenir roses and foliages and
white silk bow and—well, there were ho3ts of others. The
butter-tub lady—l hate fat women, for you see lam thin
myself—wore carrotty-brown canvas touched up here and
there with yellow. Tan shoes and green stockings com-
pleted her attire, and I think she was proud of her hosen
because she crossed her knees and stuck her feet high up
on the grand-stand railing. The Baron Bob, who never
brings his yawn to a racecourse and always takes it to
church, sported a suit as rough as a Skye terrier in tex-
ture, a fawn hat and a dragon-blue scarf ; and the relent-
less “E. W.”—true to his cast of features—appeared in
bright brown checked with an exceedingly large check
and a huge bunch of primroses in his coat. And that’s
all about Rosehill at present. /
In a report of the recent ooursing meeting at Goulburn
the record ran : “ Bridget beat Lady Carington.” Pinch
for stale news ! Bridget beats everybody in Australia 1
The Spring campaign of the A.J.C , at Randwick,
began on the 22nd inst., when everybody who
anybody, and a great many more who were nobody
in particular, packed the course to the gates. To describe
half of the lovely gowns sported wou’d fill three numbers
of this “valuable journal” (as S.M.H. correspondents
invariably express it when they want their letters put
through). Lady Carington, despite the melting heat of
the afternoon, which made a Vet fern and palm-leaf fan
seem the most desirable get-up for the occasion—wore a
wintry sort of gown of purple velvet, bodice adorned with
gold galoon and embroidery, and skirt of purple
poplin and cashmere with loops of moire ribbon en
suite. A gold tinsel bonnet ornate with purple velvet bows
and short strings, tan gloves, a white complexion fall and
white satin parasol completed the vice-rtgal dressing.
Baron Bob, with the smile in full force, was like a judge
on circuit who comes to a town where the people have
forgotten to commit anything, for he went round in
a pair of snow-white kid gloves. The two ladies—
Miss Jervois anil Miss Hamilton—who accompanied the
vice-regal party wore—the one, cream, lightened with
spring greeD, bonnet en suite ; the other, p’nk and white
stripes, bonnet to correspond. The Hon. Rupert Caring-
ton had on a pretty collar with little pink spots, like
measles, on it. Then, of course, the Gaiety crowd, who
had postponed their matinde, were there—all there. Dear
Nellie Farren wore a tasteful and cool costume of white
embroidered muslin with huge sash and bows of white
moire ribbon, white gloves, white sailor hat adorned
with masses of white ribbon and tortoiseshell pins, and
white floral parasol (1 11 describe these floral parasols
directly.) Fred Leslie gyrated in a black top hat.
Charles Dauby—he can’t imitate Irishmen a little
bit—wore gaiters. Miss Windeyer wore cream siik
touched up with gold tinsel, and carried a olustre of
beautiful azaleas in her hand. Mrs. Burdekin
appeared in pale-brown cashmere with dark-brown
velvet bonnet ornate with fawn. Mrs, Dan O’Connor
wore black with a touch of old rose in her high-peaked
bonnet. Miss Carroll (her niece) wore a delicate French-
grey dress, livened up with silver galoon. A “ Directoire ’’
ccs’ume of sage-green poplin combined with crimson and
fawn-striped silk, was simply too gorgeous for expression.
Then a lady whose picture adorns the walls of the N.S.W
Art Union’s exhibition looked rather odd as she peacocked
about the lawn with a black broche train about three
yards long trailing after her, and a big white bat with
long, broad, white ribbon ends hanging down
in the front. Another gown of pink and white
stripes with yoke and front of insertion had a very night-
dreiey effect and I kept on expecting its wearer to give a
long and plaintive snore. But Mies Agnes Thomas (Mrs.
Haxton) looked charming in cream silk and gold braid
with a white rough straw hat trimmed with cream Au
reste, J. C. Williamson wore a heliotrope Buit checked,
with black-and-tan boots. B. N. Jones smoked a cigar as
big as a torch. Hon. J. White had on Indian-red gloves.
Dr. Cortis bore up under a “ nail-keg ” a mile too large
for him. G. B. Bowley sported an irresistible moustache
and a grey hat, and the elephantine female waddled
about the saddling-paddook in a big black stamped-
velvet dolman lined with flaring scarlet, and a black
bonnet with a huge daub of red on the front of it.
Apropos of Randw ick, one of the sights at a recent meet-
ing was a wild curate in white choker and clerical coat and
hat, placidly doing the lawn, stand, and paddock, and
putting his sanctified cash on the dark hones like unto
one who is verily in the know, selah. By-the bye, I
should think if this saint-eim-sport’s bishop hears of his
tryst at a carnal racecourse he will get ejected from the
fold by his flapping auricular, shouldn’t you ?
A lady unaccompanied does not take a cab, but a wag-
gonette, in Adelaide or Melbourne. In Sydney, waggon-
ettes do not ply for hire, so she takes a cab. If she has
lived in Melbourne or Adelaide, the S.M. Herald says she
takes a cab in Sydney with the consciousness that she is
committing an impropriety, but one she cannot avoid.
Editor Curnow has at last struck a point which gives the
reader something to meditate on.
“My ’usband,” says our Mrs. Malaprop, “gave me
bonne bouche in Melbourne to buy anythink I liked for a
whole fortnight.” Somebody lately talked scandal to
Mrs. M. about a mutual friend, which the lady did not
credit, saying indignantly, “I feel it isn’t true, and I
won’t believe such cruel alligators" That shut her gossip
right up.
Yes, and Mrs. Mai., of the Point, says that articles o f
vertu are night-caps made by nuns, and that her daughter
has too much consumption in thinking that she ought to
be allowed to go to the skating-rinks. Mrs. Mal.Jhas been
visiting all the hatters’ shops in Sydney, but yet a hat
can tbe got to fit her son. His size is six and nine-eights.
The infatuation of a certain youth for a married lady
quite twice his age, led to a queer mistake at a leap-year
assembly the other night, when a young lady remarked
to her partner—“ How very devoted young G. is to his
mother —he has danced nearly every waltz with her.” The
gentleman explained that, although their initials were the
same, the couple in question were not mother and son.
A correspondent writes me that a lady attending All
Saints’ Church, Hobart, received a severe shock on a re-
cent Sunday. A prayer being about to be offered, she
piously closed her eyes, and was in the act of bending her
head to the inviting support of the book-rest in front
when she was violently seized from behind by the collar
of her jacket and her head jerked backwards into an
upright position. A lady in the next pew had observed a
large tarantula reposing on the book-rest, and committed
the assault to save her neighbour from laying her head
on it.
I hear that the latest fashionable craze in Brisbane
(Q )is the covering of occasional tables with the photo-
graphs out of “ Old Judge ” cigarette-packets ! As some
of these divinities often wear little else than shoulder-
straps and a seductive smile, Kangaroo Point drawing-
rooms must now offer a fresh field to the local apostles of
the Auger.
A very enjoyable ball was given by Mrs. Sparke, of
Macleay-street, Potts Point, on Thursday, 20th inst.
The seoond cricket match between the Gaiety Company
and the N.S.W. Defence Forces, which was played at Vic-
toria Barracks on Tuesday, the 18th, resulted in a win
for the actors by 14 runs. Among those present to wit-
ness the match was Miss Nellie Farren in a cream-
coloured gown with large red sash, tan-coloured high-
heeled shoes, large red and white hat ; Miss Marion Hood,
in dark-green velvet with a very fetching hat of light
green tulle and scarlet poppies; Miss Kate Bishop, in
black cashmere and silk-white vest, black hat with white
plumes.
An engagement is announced between Major C. Bart-
lett (Adjutant N.S.W. Volunteer Infantry) and Miss Gale,
of North Shore.
Blueskin Royce’s ben. at Sydney Criterion on the 20th
' inst, resulted in such a cram that standing room even
wasn’t available 20 minutes after the doors were open.
The only support I could find was a cold iron pillar, and
as cold iron pillars require educating as places of rest, I
left early.
Mrs. Malaprop, of the Point, in alluding to a friend’s
establishment the other day, spoke of it as the most
“ perfect menagerie in Sydney.”
The Sydney Liedertafel concert on the 10 th inst.
eventuated in the presenoe of Lord and Lady Carington
and suite, when, despite the bad weather, a very large
audience assembled to bask in melody for the time being.
On the 3rd prox. Lord Carington journeys to Wollon-
gong to formally open the new line to Kiama. Whilst at
Wollongong his Excellency will be banqueted and
balled, and will also hold a levee for the worruking mahn,
“ when it is expected a great many miners will avail
themselves,” Ac. “ Keep those beastly Southern coal-
fellows contented yet know, deah boy.” Eh ?
The Balmain Bicycle Club Championship races were
executed in the presence of a large crowd on the 22nd
inst. at Sydney Association Ground, One charming young
damsel on the G.S. was so fearfully handicapped by her
understandings that I found myself evolving the fol-
lowing doggerel every time I saw her: —
I pity the girl who is “ mashed” on a “ dude”
With tight pants and ten shillings a week,
For the dress-cir 1 > maid who comes forth semi-nude
A tear of reg r „ wets my cheek.
But the thing mat I pity the most under Heaven—-
The most ur.der Heaven’s glad sun—
Is the girl with a fcot that’s in size number seven,
And a boot that’s in size number one.
Sydney Hunt Club hold a race-meeting at Rosehill on
Saturday, the oth October, d.v. and weather permitting,
when the last event—the Welter Handicap—will be
be ridden by members of the S.H.C.
The last Sydney re-union of the season ’BB occurred at
Needs’ rooms on the 18th imt., and took the shape of a
plain and fancy dress ball. The best-dressed character
was that of a Zingara, and a very novel and decidedly
Australian dress was “Native Rose” —the gown of India
muslin being adorned with horseshoes, belt and shoulder-
straps of the sweet pink flowers. Callaghan catered.
I read that Haydn Coffin, the “ Sherwood ” of the
London production of “Drrothy,” was married because
of the irresistible way in which he warbled “ Queen of my
Heart." Now this ought to act as a solemn warning to
Knight Aston, who must b 3 in rather an awkward
predicament just now if he still feels any affection for
Mrs. Gordon Badlie, for it is rumoured that the lady’s
ca3e would be ever so much more hopeful if it could be
proved that he was warbling a celestial “ Estudiantia ”
with a bright golden halo, and long white wings on.
Apropos of Mra. Gordon Ba'llie, it is said that a young
London barrister has taken up her case so enthusiastically
that (I quote from a Sydney daffy) “ People think that
she has fascinated him." “ Tell me the old, old story.”
Eh?
It is alleged that a modern dyer controls “ 15,000
different shades of colour.” What an Australian Premier
he’d make, wouldn’t he ?
Who was the society female at a recent reception at a
Government House in Australia who invited Lady
to join a party to go somewhere, and when the invitation
was accepted broke into a servile torrent of “ ’Ope I aint
taken a liberty in arskin' yer ladyship?’ Echo answers,
Who?
Apropos of cabs. A talented individual with large
ears, living up the suburban line, tells me that he is
about to patent an arrangement for directing cabby in the
way you want him to go (which isn’t, in many cases, the
way he ought to go, is it?) without plunging wildly for-
ward and waving an umbrella round the side, or else
thrusting your perhaps-too-short arm through the trap,
at the risk of split seams and waving five excited ex-
pressionless digits right or left. If his patent works I
think a grateful community should rise up and give him
a bust. Now don’t be scandalised—l mean a marble one
in Parkes’ Mausoleum.
The Kogarah Rowing Club ball happens at West’s rooms
on the 28th inst. On the afternoon of the 28th Kemp and
Hanlan try conclusions on the Parramatta.
On dit that the reason why a certain Sydney Low
Anglican church prelate wears such a stunning watob-
chain in opposition to all the specifications set down in
his holy Authority against the adornment of the person,
is that if he didn’t wear a chain he might lose his Water-
bury, and if that contingency arose he would have to buy
another, and that would be “ wasting the Lord’s money."
That’s the way he puts it, anyhow—as if Providence
wanted money, or was likely to get it on earth even if it
did—
If by chance you should be going by soms “ temple
fraught with sin ”
(A tavern or a theatre maybe)
And should see some smug-faced parson passing "peace-
fully within,”
O 1 don’t say " What a naughty man is he,”
But accept his explanation, “ I'm in search of recteation
For my congregation at my prayers are bored,
I’m in search of novel sayings just to smarten up my
praying,
And so ‘ pluck more burning brands out for the Lord,’ ”
At the recent gorgeous Masonic installation banquet at
the Elite Rink, when the Baron rose to respond to the
mass of taffy Chief Justice Way had oovered him with,
“ As the brethren continued standing Lord Carington
desired them to resume their seats.” Of course. Why,
nobody but a fiend would make a man stand at a ban-
quet. There couldn’t be enough fixed things for them all
to hold on to. (Ilic.) \
Ambiguously sentimental ad. from tha S.M. Herald :..
TWA NT FI), respectable Lady, view matrimony, to go
on a station ; new arrival preferred. A h
Herald Office.
H’m, I may be mistaken, but still I do think that the
“respectable” lady who goes on a station merely to
“view matrimony” would get dreadfully sorry she ever
went up to look at the prospect, doa’t you ?
Despair will soon settle on the high-collared youth of
the Beautiful Harbour, for the Gaiety Co. leave early in
October for the land of nasals and coyotes. Apropos of
the " Monte Christo ” crowd, I hear that one of the ladies
is a grandmama, and one of the male high kickists is
alleged to be a real live lord in disguise. If he is, I con-
gratulate him on being the first aristoorat who has
ever entertained anybody outside of the Divoroe Court.
By-the-by, I expeot when the Point of Potts scents his
coronet the stage-door will be blocked by gilded flunkies
bearing invitation-cards as large as a cab-window.
The Australian Club ball, which eventuated on the
evening of the 21st inst., was just simply a dream of
beauty, pretty gowns, tip-top catering, delicious music,
and “tone.” Dancing was kept up until next morning
and is responsible for the droopiDg eyes and listless de-
meanour observable at Randwick on Derby day. How-
ever, there were no pale faces. Not by a long way. The
society girl knows a great deal too muoh for that.
The Exhibition of Women’s Industries and Centenary
Fair is to be opened by the long-suffering Baron on Tues-
day, the 2nd prox. at the Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. That it may “ flourish like a green bay
free,” "fill a long felt want,” “give grate plezhur toorl,”
and do several other things is the deeply expressed wish
of yours affectionately, Sappho Smith.
During the Newcastle colliers’ strike, the
community suffers the loss in circulation of no less
than £35,000 a fortnight in wages.
St. Albans, the sire of Malua, Sheet
Anchor, Ringwood, Blink Bonny, and a hundred
good horses, died the other day, at the early age
A cynical man says there are two occasions
when he would like to be present—one is when
the Gas Company pays its plumber’s bill, and the
other is when the plumber pays his gas-bill.
A parcel of land in George-street, Sydney,
was sold for a keg of whisky GO years ago. The
same land was purchased by a syndicate for
£50,000 last week. The Crown grant bears the
signature of the first colonial governor.
In Trance there have been 7572 suicides
during 12 months. Among the moral causes
thereof, according to the Statistician, domestic
trouble stands first and alcoholism next. Woman
first, wine second.
Two out of four of the guns used by the
N S.W. Cadet Artillery are over 100 years old.
When the big burst comes killing half-a-dozen or
so of the attendant gunners an inquiry will be
made and a change come about, but not till then.
One of the smartest and best-written pro
tectionist dailies in Australia is the Grip, printed
and published at Grafton, N.S.W., by Henry
Fane Becher. It is just the right size, it is cleanly
gotten-up, typographically seductive, and the
matter is brisk, crisp, briefly stated, well-condensed
and newsy.
Three spinster sisters, of ages ranging
from 58 to 68, living in Collingwood (Melb.), be-
came affected by a peculiar madness recently, and
attempted to starve themselves to death, saying
they were held in bondage under the “ Silent
System.” Married women are not subject to this
affection to any great extent.
Those who are fond of big figures may
work out the followingThe sun’s distance
from the earth is about 93,000,000 of miles, and
its light takes eight minutes to reach this planet.
Alpha Centauri, the brightest star (or stars) in
the “pointers,” is the nearest of the fixed stars;
it is in reality a double star, the nearer of the two
being so far distant that its fight takes 3J years to
reach the earth. How far from this planet must
it he t (Before commencing to work it out the
student is advised to apply to one of the daily
papers for a reel of their printing paper.) The
two stars in Alpha Centauri revolve round one
another once in 76 years. How is that for high ?
—Notes at the Sydney Observatory, August, 1888.
A European and six natives left Thursday
Island, (Q.), recently in an open boat, and
weren’t heard of any more. A northern paper
states, with that noble consideration which always
distinguishes the Australian race, that “much
sympathy has been expressed for the owner of the
boat.” He stayed on shore and kept himself dry,
but the district is bathed in grief over the loss of
his property ; and a general opinion seems to pre-
vail that if the seven occupants of the vessel had
had the honesty to throw themselves overboard
when the weather became heavy, instead of hang-
ing on till everything sunk, the craft might have
been preserved to be a blessing and a comfort to its
afflicted proprietor for many years to come.


Something New in Sewing Machines.
THE
BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
WHAT IS THERE SPECIAL ABOUT IT ?
f ■ \HE restless march of invention has enabled
-®- us to bring before the public improvements
of immense value, to some short account of which
we beg your attention for a few moments. Our
calling is to relieve the home-mother of all that
may weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout, a pleasure. That we have during the
last seven years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
for the truth of which assertions, as of the follow-
ing, we humbly request that your own eyes may
be the judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTON
HOLE MACHINE in one. Tin re is no other in
this market. There is no other in this world.
The “Button Hole Appliances,” so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine,
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALE PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
as the Family Machine, but is expressly con-
structed and fitted to make Button H< les in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
a moat wonderful actuating mechanism in the
head. All this is the subject of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by us for the sum
of £7500. The whole cost of the Machine, extra,
to the public is, cash, eighteen shillings. We
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
ful Embroidery; a herring-bone stitch for blankets,
woollens, or other materials; you may do over-
casting or top sewing—never before possible with
Sewing Machines—as fast as you can feed the
work. And, above all, you can make single barred
or double barred button holes and eyelet holes
with the most marvellous precision and perfection.
Herein, the fingers of the practised seamstress
cannot with the greatest expenditure of time and
labour, produce work of similar quality. And
remember, the Machine-made button hole, in
addition to its beauty, is inherently far superior,
for each stitch is Locked. Button holes which
ought to embellish a garment, are often only a,
disfigurement. Look at our samples and judge
the effect of fine work for yoursolf. By all means
have good work instead of bad, especially when
you can make six perfect Button Holes while you
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand.
Get a BE ALE MACHINE, practise it —we will
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like,
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the rising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn freely to pass underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonder-
ful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all
clicking sounds having been obviated. As is well
known, a good test of the finish of any mechanism
is its silence when in rapid motion,
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL PLATING.—In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones. Heightening the appearance,
these improvements also tend largely to preserve
the parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
the place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance
of former year 3. When closed it securely fastens
the cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperatuie reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excelleno tension, is
strong and simple.
The BOBBIN-WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, windirg and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
We have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. No, the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing
machine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484, and 4Sfi GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
“FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL."
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-street (opposite Royal
Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers EITZ
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
In advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
the office, George-street, or from the runners In
the street.
s. FREEMAN A SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Eaths’s Baking Fovitn, Orient Smart Sint,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD A CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS, PEBSIAN SSESEET,
Ac., &o.
STEAM WORKS s
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
SEASON, 1888 and 1889.
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THE
PUBLIC.
J. H. WHITE,
(Member of Tattersall’s Club, Sydney and Vic-
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
175, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. H. White’s Weekly Circular of Current
Prices on all forthcoming events (as quoted at the
Sporting Clubs) forwarded Gratis to any part of
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name and
address.
Centennial Hotel,
SCOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
Newcastle.
Wines, Beers, and Spirits a Speciality.
Hot, Cold, and Shower-Baths on each Flat.
BILLIARDS ! BILLIARDS!
THIS Hotel is now opened, and admitted to be
the Best Fitted and Furnished Hotel in the
Colony. It is beautifully situated, being directly
opposite the Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to the
Railway Station, and convenient to all the Public
Buildings. A porter meets all trains and steamers.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
WALTER SIDNEY, Proprietor.
J^ELACHRINO.
This most Celebrated Brand of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES
Has now the LARGEST SALE in the World.
M. Melaclirino »V t'o., Cairo, and 21 Coekspur
Street, London,
Are by appointment Purveyors to H.R.H. Duke op Con-
naught, H.R.H. Prince Henry op Prussia, the Courts
and Ambassadors of Europe,
The KHEDIVAL CLUB ... Cairo & Alexandria
ARMY and NAVY)
CLUB j
London
~ GUARDS’ CLUB ... London
~ CARLTON CLUB ... London
and over
100 leading British and Continental Clubs.
The ROYAL ARTILLERY |
Woolwich, and 30
other Stations
>»
BLACK WATCH
...}
Perth, Dublin and
Malta
99
COLDSTREAM
GUARDS
Windsor
„ ROYAL ENGINEERS |
Chatham, Alder-
shott and Cairo.
~ LIFE GUARDS ... London
and
150 other Regimental Messes of the British Army.
WARREN & ROWN,
Sole Agents,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of the Choicest Brands of
MANNA, MANILLA ail HERMAN CIGARS.
ALSO
£3T Sole Agents for the Cadeineno I!rand of
Egyptian Cigarette.
Fresh supplies arrive by every Mail Steamer. Cigarettes
always fresh and fragrant. Price Lists forwarded on
application.
GBD. QBD. GBD.
SMB PAMOUB AMI PAYOURIXB BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Btlll maintain* It* Preitige and (land* pre-eminent amoa
tbe bait* of other brand* a*
XHB BBSX QUALITY BBIAB PIPS OSVBBBD SO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undesigned are prepared to anforaa tba Law aialail
all penoni imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT * 00.,
11l OLARBNOB-SXBBBS.
QBD. QBD*
We have Large Shipment* of thl* BRAND OS BBIAB
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipment* aomlng forward
WHOLBSALB ONLY.
T> RITTENBERG & 0 0.,
IMPORTERS,
81 CtABKNOB STBBBT, WyNTARD SQUABS.
Varnltare, Mirror*. Oleofirrephe end Moulding*,
Business Announcement.
JfEWTON and lamb
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS^
FULL'S SUITES for DINING-ROOM.—SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
qelf-adjusting hammock chair,
k Patented.
-set
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
DRAW ING-ROOM SUITBS, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
.
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari.
Otis sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
PH rp=
D
RAWING ROOM CABI-
NETS.
EABIiY ENGLISH
Chippekdali Designs.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RoNISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
A USTRIANBENT
WOOD
FURNITURE.
A VBBY OOMPIBXB
Asbobtmbnb,
Many quite new designs.
Nbwton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
HOCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
"jT>EDSTKADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.j
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
WTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
warehousemen,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
RPRTNO * fvnnNNWTJ, RTRTCETB
CORRESPON PENCE
W.J.M.” (Launceston): We have already
published in Tire Bulletin an extract from the Indbpen-
d.vnck Beloe covering the ground traversed by your
medical friend’s letter. The statement that the late Ger-
man Emperor died from cancer is one of those lies which
society has agreed to accept as true “EW.S.”: The
Queen is the head of the Established Church, and the Go-
vernor is the representative of the Queen, so how can you
possibly expect any Anglican dignitary to frankly criticise
tlie Governor ! It is true that, theoretically, there is in
Australia no Established Church ; but, as a matter of
fact, the Anglican Church is socially the Established
Church “Sco'.ty”: Ves, we’d like you to do it
from a Crimean-shirt-and-moleskin point of view....
George Smith ” : Thanks. Tne par. was clipped from
The Bulletin by the Glasgow paper in question “ W.
Ward ”: We have never said that we looked upon the
Government of the United States as an ideal Govern-
ment. The railway-magnates and syndicates are be-
ginning to rule the land. You might as well be ruled by
a king as by a joint-stock company. Better, perhaps.
However, the remedy is in the hands of the people them-
selves.. .. “ G. J.” : Frank Hewitt ran half-a-mile against
time on the Riccarton Road (Christchurch, N.Z ), August
-4, 1S7I, in lmin. 63Jsec. The first quarter was covered
m 53iseonds. The record is fully authenticated
by several most thoroughly experienced and reputable
sportsmen, including Messrs. Stead and II Red-
wood, who are still alive.... “ Cockney ” : Please call....
“ Ben Demmy ” : Yes, Captain Kerry is the same man....
“ Thom »8 ° Uonnell ” (L.): A good idea. Many thanks..
“ Wanda”: If your latest is original it’s pretty good
“Id Achates” (Queensland): Many thanks. As you re-
mark, it is not fear which takes possession of a strong and
brutal culprit when you torture him, it is revenge....
The Friend ’ (Queensland): Will use your story one of
these days “ G.W.” (Molong): Yes, for what is pub-
shed “J.Y.S.”: The verses, Missed his Voca-
tion,” were palmed off on The Bulletin as original by
one “ Nimrod,” of Brisbane, who appears to have oopied
them from a foreign paper. Who is it that now
dares fo say they were written for a Sydney paper?
“P.B.G.”: Your vertes are full of colour and imagi-
native power, but the form of expression ’is
lamentably weak, lame, an 1 impotent; the thoughts
and images seem to be hung on clothes-lines. You’ve
imagination enough to equip a dozsn ordinary verse-
writers. Improve your style....“ Dodger ” (Woomar-
gama) : We weep with thee, oh gentle Dodger, and if you
send the Spudbolter along in pickle we will wreak a
ghastly vengeance on his murphy head. Farewell
Doiger !....“ F.L.P.”: The point, if it is a point’,
at the end of the last verse is too thin to
need a poem in order to introduce it.... “A
briend”: You want us ti recommend a place for
your honeymoon. Go to Paris—if you can If you can’t,
go to Katoomta. However, there is an awful chasm be-
tween Paris and Katoomba....*• W.W.” : Why, Lord John
Russell, when Chancellor, 30 years ago, declared
that no one should hold a Commission of the
Peace who belonged to the Orange Institution....
“ Maguire ” (Kangaroo Point): Your yarn is good, but the
chief character is too profane for publication.. “ G.J.M.” :
Will bear it in mind “ H.G.JX” (Waverley): Thanks..
“Kurrajong” (Brisbane): Almost the only new point in
your letter is the assertion that Griffith is the leader of
the Anti-Chinese policy in Queensland. Against this we
would point out that Griffith was the man who prevented
the Chinese being taxed years ago; that he did not ex-
clude the Chinese when he g ot the chance ; and that he
has showed an inclination to take the part of the Mongols
in almost every difficulty between them and the white dig-
gers. If these things are the signs of Griffith’s anti-Chinese
sentiments that politician must be built upside-down
“W.L.”: Tae lawyers have more privileges and receive
greater protection in N.S. W. than in any other of the Aus-
tralian colonies....‘'J.H. ’ (Roper River): Afraid we can-
not make anything of it. Send us some good aboriginal
stories from your region....“ F.S.B.” : Don’t make any
mistake. Colonel Roberts is by no means the sort of man
to pick an unnecessary row with the miners. When last
he had a detachment in the great N S.W. coal district the
miners and the soldiers were on the bast of terms. They
constantly intermixed in athletic contests and at musical
entertainments. The miners bear no ill-will to the soldiers,
but they despise the miserable politicians who threaten
them with Nordenfeldt guns, and they are fully aware
that efforts are being made by fheir enemies to provoke
them to violence and put them in the wrong.
“ Ivo ”: We sympathise with you. Should we
ever have any girls with £800-a-year dots to spare
we will send one along —“ J. Armstrong” (Wool-
lahra): The subject is a goad one but tha form of ex-
pression is very much “off.” “Jonah Pedagogue”:
Certainly ; what is the use of a State school-teacher in
N.S.W. who cannot levy for distress and enforce payment
of sch'ol-fees at the point of a bailiff auction?....
“W.V.”: Will endeavour to ascertain the facts of the
case ycu write about — “ Gumleaf ” : Received with
thanks. Write whenever you feel like it ; always glad
to hear of or from you “ Nanto ” (Bourke): We have
got your “ screed ” under microscopic ob3ervaVon, but as
yet with no results.
The “ Escaped Nun’s ” announcement of
a lecture to ‘ ‘ both sexes only ” is reasonable ac-
cording to Voltaire, who said there were three
sexes—men, women, and the clergy.


NOW ! NOW !
IN THE SPRING OP THE YEAR.
IN THE SPUING OP THE YEAR.
During winter, Nature wisely arranges that we
should live on foods containing much fat, or, as
they are known, hydro carbons, for the purpose of
supplying heat to the body; the chemical opera-
tion necessary to transform fat into heat is the ex-
clusive work of the liver, and so during the time
stated it is constantly congested. £3T With the
approach of warm weather our diet changes to
muscle-producing food, and the work of the liver
is much lessened. In the majority of cases, how-
ever, it is K3' unable to completely throw off the
excess of bile, but remains congested, causing that
KS" lazy, tired feeling which many have in the
spring months, when the weather becomes warm.
83° This is evidence of an unhealthy condition,
and though people appreciate the necessity of an
alterative at this period, the common idea is to
take drastic pills and produce a cathartic effect,
only to make matters 83° worse. The liver must
be unloaded, and its proper action restored before
hot weather, if you wish to 83' preserve health,
and if this distinct call of nature is unheeded,
serious results will occur. 83° The blood will be-
come loaded with bile and lithic acid, and as
83° every drop of vital fluid passes through the kid-
neys to be purified, they scon break down, and
are rendered unable to cany out the deadly poison.
Warner’s safe cure and Warner’s safe pills have
not only a 83° specific action on the kidneys, but
on the 83° liver also. They thin the thickened
bile so that it will paEs out through its ducts,
enable the glands to unload themselves, act as a
solvent on all biliary acid's, and in a word, Kg’ fit
the liver for the season’s work, 83° preventing
blood poisoning, inflammation, abscess, and all
affections to which it is so liable. As you value
the blessings of health, do not allow the summer
to approach without giving your system a “general
housecleaning” with Warner’s safe remedies.
“ To be forewarned is to be forearmed.
Everybody should uss Pemell’s latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
The Kingdom of Sport.
New South Wales is the kingdom of sport.
It is the happy hunting-ground for all the “ cham-
pions ” of the different classes of athletics whose
ways that are dark and tricks that are vain have
disgusted the public in their own countries. It is
a favourite ground of complaint against Australia
that little attention is paid to mental cultivation,
and that athletics are worshipped to a foolish ex-
tent. We cannot quite agree with this logic.
“ Mens sana in corpore sano” is a goad motto
and true, and a nation of athletes is not neces-
sarily a nation of dullards. Mere fondness for
sport never did any harm to any community. The
danger is that we will neglect genuine sport and
follow after that which is bogus, and we are afraid
that the sport which is now being so lavishly sup-
ported in Australia is, for the most part, not the
genuine thing at all, but a kind of mock-turtle
arrangement which is always to be distinguished
by its ancient and fishlike smell.
» *
Let us begin with what is called the king
of sports —horseracing. New clubs have sprung
into existence lately in all directions, and we have
races on pretty well every Saturday. The number
of racehorses in training is something wonderful;
and besides the horses there is the expense of
keeping the racecourses in order, building grand-
stands, paying prize-money, and all the outlay
of the clubs which manage the races. Then there
is the noble army of hangers-on who “follow the
game ” and get their living out of the can tiding
public by the thousand and one swindles
at which they are adepts. Their name is legion;
they do no work but merely loaf round listlessly,
chewing tobacco, spitting on the sidewalks, revelling
in foul conversation, ever on the look-out for a
“mug” to rob, or a “straight tip” to enable
them to fleece some worse-informed sharper ; this
human scum can be seen any day floating in the
gutters outside the sporting hotels. The number
of men who make their living by “ sport ” alone, is
so great as to be almost incredible. They have
fearful and wonderful devices for getting the
better of their fellow-man ; the three-card game,
pea-and-thimble, under-and-over, break joint,
roulette, all have their specialists; some are
“ whisperers,” that is they get, or pretend to get,
information about racehorses from jockeys and
trainers and sell this information to those of the
public who are fools enough to pay them for it;
they rise in the morning with a fixed determina-
tion to make something out of somebody
before night, and to do them justice they
generally succeed. They never work—is it
likely that any man would settle down to
steady labour when he finds he can get a living by
his wits, with the prospect always before him of
some day making a big haul ? They reckon that
some day they will “drop on to a good thing”
and make a pile, and until that desirable con-
summation is reached they live, vulture-like, on
their pickings and stealings.
* O
Now, it is evident that somebody finds
the money for all this—for the training of the
sleek-coated thoroughbreds, the maintenance of
the foul-mouthed little jockeys, the building of
the spacious grand-stands, the support of the
bookmakers, the livelihood of the hangers-on.
The owners of the horse 3 don’t race for their own
money to any great extent. Racing for their own
money, we may explain, means that the prize is
contributed by the owners of all the horses com-
peting, but thi3 does not obtain in N.S.W. at all.
The prizes are large and are given by the clubs, and
the clubs get the prize-money where they get the
money for their courses and grand-stands, and
where the bookmakers and the sharpers get their
profits—from the public. The public of New
South Wales support racing most liberally and
roll up manfully Saturday after Saturday and pay
their good money to keep the game on foot.
And what sort of a game has it become, this noble
sport of horseracing? Go out to one of the
suburban meetings and what do you generally
see ? A field of eight or ten horses start
and only two or three of them are meant
to win; the others, in ninety-nine cases out
of a hundred, are simply “ out for an airing,”
“running weight off,” “doing a shunt,” as the
delightful gentlemen who own them express it.
There is no concealment about it. “My hor<?e
■sn’t very well to-day,” says the owner to the
friends to whom he wishes to give the “ straight
griffin,” and away they go winking quietly to
themselves and back something else. Meanwhile,
the confiding public back the horse which “ isn’t
very well.” Day after day in the sporting
columns of the newspapers we see that such and
such a horse will probably “ run well if wanted,”
“ will about win if on the job,” and so forth.
Now and again the committees of these clubs hold
an investigation and disqualify an owner—
generally some unfortunate up-country devil who
has no friends on the committee, and who only
owns one horse. The big men who run a lot of
horses are usually let alone. When a horse is
meant to win it is the usual thing for his owner
and his owner’s friends to back him heavily, and
if any dangerous opponent seems likely to have a
try for the same race they fix matters up quietly
beforehand.
* * *
The city clerk leaves the office where he
has toiled all the week for £3 or less, and goes out
to a race-meeting to bet £2 of his £3 on the race-
horses ; the other pound goss in incidental ex-
penses—los. to the saddling-paddock, tram-fares,
lunch, drinks, and so on. When he gets out there he
does not try and find out which horse has per-
formed best, or is the best-trained, or most favour-
ably weighted. Generally, he does not know one
end of a horse from the other, but he knows a
fellow whose mother’s aunt’s sister washes for a
jockey, or is in some other equally direct way
connected with the turf. To this gentleman he
applies, and asks whether he “knows anything
good.” Then they decide that if Snoozer (the
owner) has backed the Holy Show he will be on the
job, and then they try and find out whether the
Show is backed, and finally they invest on him.
Then the race comes on, and the Show makes his
appearance, his rider having neither whip nor
spurs, and showing a most wonderful indifference
to the advantages of a good start. “We are sent
for,” moans the clerk, as soon as he sees what is
going on, and “ sent for ”he is. The horse “ does
not try a yard,” and their money is lost. But
sometimes, by good luck, they get the “straight
tip,” and back a winner, and are encouraged to
carry on the game.
• • •
This is the way racing is supported nowa-
days, but it is not sport at all. The average race-
goer does not care for the “glorious uncertainty
of sport.” What he likes is a good old certainty
of which he himself has early information. It is a
gamble, pure and simple, and the public back
their inexperience and their untrustworthy infor-
mation against the knowledge of the bookmakers
and the roguery of the average owner. It always
ends in one way if persisted in, but in general
the betting youth sickens of the business after a
series of losses and gives way to others. How
long the ball will be kept rolling goodness knows,
but unless the turf is cleared, and that speedily, of
some of its impurities, the “sport of kings” is
doomed Eels get used to skinning, they say, and
the public are used to being fleeced, but the eel
can’t help himself and the public can, if they
choose. Before long they will choose.
* * •
How about other sports? N.S. Wales
holds the boating championship and, so far, there
has been very little trickery in that line. The
races have, lately at any rate, all been fair and
square, and long may they remain so. It was the
introduction of swindling which killed boating in
England. You surely don’t suppose they have
no big, powerful, plucky, athletic men in
England and that out of their many millions
of inhabitants they could not get at least
as good a man as N.S.W. out of her one
million? In England professional sculling has,
through swindling, sunk to the very lowest level,
and no one will associate himself with such a
degraded sport. How are they ever likely to get
hold of a good man when they can find no one to
help their aspirants for sculling honours with
money as the supporters of aquatics do here ? Any
one who took up a promising sculler in England
would, if he took past experience as a guide, ex-
pect to find himself “ taken down ” by his own
protege, who would sell the races for which his
patron backed him. Consequently, no one will have
anything to do wish sculling and it has gone to
the dogs. In England, at the time Trickett and
Hanlan rowed, there were plenty of people, well
informed on other subjects, who did not know
which was the Australian and which the Cana-
dian. They knew it was a professional sculling
race, and, therefore, as they supposed, a swindle,
and they took no interest in the matter. And so
long as the scullers here keep their good reputa-
tion, just so long and no longer will public interest
in their matches be sustained and money be forth-
coming.
"Lard Carington will be present, "&c.
CHORUS (from the box at Royal):
“OH, I SAY! THIS IS
SOMETHING LIKE CIVILI-
SATION. THIS IS LIKE
LONDON, YOU KNOW.
WHO SAID WE WANTED
TO RESIGN!” (For once they
for yet to yawn.)
The evil then will work its own cure in
tinne ; but it takes a long time. Meanwhile the
vicious influence exercised on Australia by the
mania for “ sport ”is tremendous Every little
barber’s shop has its totalisator where half-crowns
are invested by sickly boys on animals about
which they are profoundly ignorant; every to-
bacconist lays the odds. All day long at street-
corners and hotel-verandahs you can see gangs of
evil-faced youths idling the days away, looking
out always for a chance to “get a bit to go on
with.” The noble profession of bookmaking is
overdone, and even the “fly” and “dowDy”
birds who live on ‘ 1 flats ” find their prey not so
numerous as they were. It is a. pity that we cin-
not “ready-up” some legislation to clear out all
these human scum and set our sports on a fresh
footing.
The Newcastle strike means that 8000
men are out of work in that district.
In East London, at the Red church, the
Rev. Mr. Coke unites couples in marriage for
seven-pence-halfpenny.
The champion “ marryist ” hails from
Chicago. Mr. Brown has conducted 32 wives to
the altar and has subsequently, with all due
legality, escorted 31 of those trusting females to
the divorce-court.
The proprietors of Sydney Evening News
have issued a libel writ for £2OOO against the pro-
prietors of the Sydney Freeman's Journal, in
which a very tropical article recently appeared
impugning the general respectability of the daily
newspaper so ably conducted by the Messrs.
Bennett. The case will come on for hearing in a
month or two.
J. B. Patterson is now down very low
politically. For the last few years he has been
trying; to run the yellow pup, but he has found
that it can’t be made to fight in Victoria as in
N.S.W. To make things worse, J. B. P. recently
made a semi-Freetrade speech in the Assembly,
and was told by Mr. Mirams that he should not
sit any longer with the Protectionist party.
There is a donkey in Adelaide over 50
years old. He was imported from England more
than 40 years ago.
A Sydney girl has got £975 damages from
a steam-ship company through whose negligence
she fell into the water.
A string of camels recently arrived in
Bourke, N S.W., having travelled 300 miles,
carrying heavy loads, in three weeks. Each beast
had on its back two bales of dumped wool.
In a lecture oa “The Power of Language ”
last week, Rev. J. G. Eraser quoted a N.S.W.
country paper as having said that the late Sir
James Martin had “literally torn Sir Henry
Parkes to pieces on the floor of the House.”
Tha shearing tally at Dunlop station
(N.S.W.) where 30 shearers have been using
Wolseley’s machines, is over 100 per man per
day, the highest tally being 153. Thirty men
working the machine do the work of 40 men with
ordinary shears.
Amongst the applications recently sent in
for the billet of warder at the Prince Albsrb
Memorial Hospital, Tenterfield, was one from a
fiend in human form, who, by way of highly
recommending himself, declared that he “ was
musical and played the trombone.”
John Haynes in the Sunday News :
Were your legs cut off at their sockets, your brains
would be strewn in the street. Poor Bulletin !
This is the highest compliment ever paid to The
Bulletin. Even Haynes recognises that that
journal is stoked with brains all the way down.
“ It is reported in well-informed circles,”
says a Sydney daily, “ that the N.S.W. Govern-
ment is again going to turn Cockatoo Island into
a prison.” There is a fine flavour of Botany Bay
aristocracy about this use of the phrase “ well-in-
formed circles ” in connection with prison news.
Rabbits do climb trees in Western N.S.W.
The S.M. Herald’s special Commissioner “in a
score of instances saw the rabbits hanging dead
from the forks and limbs in which their feet had
caught, and in hundreds of other instances he
saw the twigs seven feet up stripped of their
bark.”
When they wanted a flogger the other day
at Townsville (Q.) they got him from the ranks of
the local Naval Brigade. After this we don’t
think very much of the Townsville Naval Brigade.
While that gallant body is on the job it may as
well supply N.S.W. with an assistant-hangman.
Now boys, don’t all speak at once.
Capt. Lee, assistant lighthouse-keeper at
the Hornby fight —a veritable ancient mariner, as
he was a shipmaster 40 years ago, being then 32
yca-s of age—has in his possession two egg-cups
which were turned in ivory (probably whale-ivory)
by Mr. Henry Parkes early in the forties. In
those halcyon times, says the captain, carpenter’s
wages were five shillings a day and work very
scarce at that.
The Royal Astronomer, in a lecture de-
livered recently in the Royal Observatory, Eng-
land, said that there are now more stars known
by name than there are meD, women, and children
in Great Britain. When we take into account
that each of these may have its Parkes and Dan.
O'Connor, we are able to understand why Carlyle
called the sky, on a starry night, “ a sad sight.”
At the Water Police Court, (Sydney) on a
recent day, a canvasser was charged with stealing
a copy of Holy Writ. “ Was I,” said he to the
owner, “ peculiar in my manner when you saw
me—was I suffering from any mania?” “Yes,
of course,” said Addison, S.M , “kleptomania.”
“ No,” said the book-fiend, “ dipsomania.”
Whichever mania it was will be curbed for one
calendar month.
Some more cheerful facts on the subject
of drink have lately come to light. The brain of
a tough customer who died of snakes in his boots
was examined by an inquisitive doctor, and
proved to be of the consistency of cheese. It
had been literally pickled in alcohol, and if the
deceased could only have held on a little longer,
his thinking organ bade fair to assume the dura-
bility of a paving-stone.
John Smith, late an engine cleaner in the
service of the Victorian Railway Department, got
both his legs cut off by a locomotive at
Spencer street sheds, and has been awarded by
a grateful government £3OO as compensation.
£3OO invested at G per cent, will yield about £lB a
year, or say Is. a day. Now, either John Smith
was entitled to compensation or he was not; if he
was, it is a mockery to give him in exchange for
his working force a sum insufficient to pay even a
third of the cost of his board and lodging. His
petition for more money will no doubt be
generously considered by the Victorian authorities.
Dear Bulletin, — From the report which
appears in the accompanying cutting from the
Narandera (N.S.W.) Ensign of 13th Sept, con-
cerning the case of Mary Newcome, a girl of 24,
charged on summons with unlawfully living at the
local Chinese camp and having no visible means of
support, you will see this :
At this stige of the proceedings Mr. Donaldson, P.M.,
sa ! d he should adjourn the Court for an hour, as he
wished to attend ohurcb, where prayer for rain was to be
offered; and in the meantime the g'rl, after some little
resistance, was placed in a cell at the lock-up. On the
case being resumed, Mr. de Boos for the defence, called,
&c., &o.
The report is in the main correct, but no mention
is made of the fact that the girl charged was at
the court answering a summons served upon her
some days prior to the trial She showed no symp-
toms whatever of a desire to abscond, yet while
the police magistrate and the C.P.S retired with
their prayer-books to pray for rain, of which there
were indications at the time, the girl was thrust
into a cold cell at the lock-up. Let us pray.—
Abobig.
Bertrand the murderer, who is under
sentence of inprisonment for life, and has now
served 23 years in gaol, is very despondent as to
his chances of release. He has almost abandoned
hope of becoming a free man owing to the manner
in which numerous promises of a direct and
indirect character made to him from time to time
have been broken. It is now clear, he thinks, that
he will not again see daylight until a certain high
official who is said to have both public and private
reasons for keeping him in prison shall haye
passed away. Bertrand’s mother died some
months ago. She was a most affectionate woman
and laboured night and day on behalf of her son
to whom her loss has been a great blow. Bertrand
while in pi ison has been most industrious and has
amongst other things acquired a complete mastery
of the Spanish language. He contemplated settl-
ing in South America in the event of his release
and there practising his old profession, that of a
dentist—in which, though but 23 when he murdered
the man with whose wife he had fallen in love, he
was most proficient. There has been much dis-
cussic n as to the advisableness of Bertrand being
compelled to die in gaol in accordance with the
literal terms of his sentence. In Victoria and
many other countries inprisonment for life is held
to mean imprisonment during the convict’s actuar-
ial expectancy of life as computed at the time of
his conviction, be being thus given the margin
between man’s calculation and nature’s intention.
The Bulletin, which has always advocated
the abolition of capital punislimi nt, is far from
wish'ng that men convicted of such delibarate
murders as that committed by Bertrand should be
treated with leniency, ss tenderness in dealing with
“ life-imprisoned ” murdereis would go a long way
towards convincing the public that, after all, there
could really ba no such thing as imprisonment for
life, and would afford a plausible reason for the non-
abolition of the barbarities of the scaffold. Yet,
nevertheless, Bertrand’s case is one which may
now fairly be taken into consideration by the
authorities.
Twenty Pounds For A Comet.
Many residents of Stawell will remember that
inihe month of January, 1887, a discovery of a
comet was made by Mr. W. H. Haley, who at
that time had charge of the local post and telegraph
office. In a private letter addressed to a friend in
Stawell, Mr. Haley states that he has been pre-
sented with the sum of £2O, as a reward for the
discovery, by the Melbourne representative of the
Hon. H. H. Warner, proprietor of Warner’s Safe
Cure. This prize is offered by the authorities of
the Warner Observatory at Rochester, N.Y.,
United States of America, and may be won by
any person in the world who makes the discovery
of a comet that appears unexpectedly. This is
the second prize emanating from the same source
that has been won in the colonies, Mr. Frederick
Cowle, of Lauriston, River Forth, Tasmania, hav-
ing been presented with a gold medal for an essay
on “The Red Glow of Sunrise and Sunset.”
— Stawell (Viet.) Times , Sept. 14,


Business Announcements.
To Tobacconists, Storekeepers, and
Hairdressers.
Craig & Ait ken,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR
MERCHANTS AND IMPORTERS,
680 and 682 George-street,
Sydney,
HAVE a Stock replete with almost every
known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and silver-
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,
Cutlery, Perfumery, &c.
Agents for the Celebrated
PLUM UZOBSjnd SCISSORS,
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
Army and Navy
TOBACCO
FOR
Smoking
AND
i Chewing
5
Is still the most Popular Brand in the Market.
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG & AITKEN.
FINE AROMATIC VULCAN RUBY, Us., 145.,
p p.’s, 7s. ; TWIST.
Cut Tobaccos.
ULC AN MIXTURE (American) finely flavored,
best value in the market, Jib. packets.
AMERICAN ROUGH-CUT RUBY and LONG
CUT, in Jib. packets. Finest quality.
Cigars.
EL TORO BREVAS, exquisitely flavored.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality !
New South Wales
» i
i
Saloons fitted out in first-class style at a very
moderate cost. Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inconvenience and delay. Orders, enclosing P. 0.
Orders or Cash, promptly attended to.
Pay Particular Attention to the Address :
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Price List on Application
A Lovely and Delicatb Complexion.— This is ob
tained by using Rowlands’ Kalydor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
ATKTR AT TA ma y be summed up as
the coming colony, and
the relation in which it will stand toward Austra-
lasia will evidently be one of great influence.—
E. Favenc
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Possesses Copper, Lead, Tin, Gold, Silver and
Iron Ore in abundance. Her climate is mild and
healthy, her timber—especially the .Tarrah—is re-
nowned for its durability and usefulness. Great
railways are being constructed connecting PERTH,
the Capital City, with the interior.
Telegrams respecting the Gold Discoveries ap-
pear almost daily in the newspapers.
The Colony is going right ahead on its prosperous
way. Investors are now offered a rare chance of
securing Blocks of Land almost in Perth, the
Capital City of this coming Colony, for a
“mere song.
The EVELEIGH ESTATE,
Perth, Western Australia,
Only about half-a-mile from the city, fronting a
Government road, excellently situated, good build-
ing land, must return a handsome profit to buyers.
ONLY £lO EACH BLOCK.
£1 deposit; balance 10s. monthly. No interest.
Torren’s Title. Free deeds to purchasers of 5 lots.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets containing valu-
able information posted on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Limited,
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
I
K.
yVcENTS ,
el
O
S
O
s
T
DELISSA & PHILLIPS
3&JBarmck Street.
ft
%
<2>
$
o
&
£
r
$
D
<m^
»
9
O
ft
X
V
e
o
?*
9
$
O
&
\
o
9
'X
s>
&
o
<3
s>
<o
*
X
<b
V?
<< N
v
<d
*
$
V
V
9
9
*
390 a GEORGE S T
byditbx
William's Australian Insecticide Is death to all Insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Inseot Destroying Powder, being oertain death to
all kinds ol insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Inseotioide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all ohemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 267 King,
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rouslllon, Madeira,
Musoat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-olass Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, ohemist, near King.street.*
yuxrii
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried.”
(Signed) Marie Roze.
THE
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not split in the Seams nor
tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
_ Corsetstamped“Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
Three G-old Medals 11
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
I F E PRESERVATION;
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdalb Sthebt East, Melboubne.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated nnder Companies Aot, 1872.
CAPITAL, £600,004.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
3 months, 6 per oent.
6„ 6 „
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months 1£ per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
FOR SALE. —Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, STONET.
*6
EXECUTE ZITEEITTS
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYIN6 OF TEAS.
tot
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
Tha Bast Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents to! the above foe New Sooth Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, including Machinery
Imported Leathers, &o. j and of the following Special LinesPEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH!
NUBIAN BLACKING i Tanner*’ Tool* and Material*, Indent* exeeoted on Favourable Term*'
Business Announcements.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitten.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken few!
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, Is more reliable for remov-
ing all Impure secretions than any other
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will And
these Bitters Invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twloe a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER,
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
How b Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
_ M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, Ootober, 80, 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure In recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
_ 0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August SI, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
the undersigned j—
“ I have for many years been obliged to 1
medicines of different kinds for affections of ’
jj™' Indigestion, pain in the chest, general de
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produoed an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change In
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of tham,
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
„ „ “ Carlisle Cottage, Leiohhardk,
Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney."
•I*
liii
m
raiiMi
mmmm
JOSEPHSOFS_ OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD. BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you 1
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, — I have tried your Josephson's Olnt
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
TUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROWS
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declarations.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
“Declared at Sydney, 12th August, 1881, before
me.
“)Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P,
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANI
BITTERS, prepared solely by
EI)W. ROW and COMPANY.


Business Announcements,
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
Pitt Street.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
BRUNTO ITS
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Oaa be obtained throughout New Sooth Wale*.
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ... ... 84 Pitt Stbim.
BRISBANE... ...Edwabd Stbmt.
MELBOURNE .. Sphnobb Stbbip,
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured !
The Greatest Success V
of Modern Times. /
CONSULT
I All Chronic Disease
\ are Curable.
Ur, H, L EISEUUHN, Consulting Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
60 WILLIAM BTKEKT, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Bead the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July, 1886.
To H. E. Kughlmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that 1 was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
inourable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month 1 was considerably worse ; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die. —I remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
lar All Consultations Erce, 'St
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
not being Effected.
4 SOVEfiEIGN EEKEDI
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tio
Dolokkux, Aching Fains In the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when on*
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure in a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No change in die?
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10a.
CUBE FOB BLIGHT,
ROSK’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
Thin Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sand;
Blight, bnt strengthens the sight. Numerous tes
Hmnniaia from those who have recovered through
Its agenoy can be Been. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured,
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
I. L ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 Georfire-fltreet, only.
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin, for the
• last nine years, Publisher, Bulletin
office.
Q-IR3>T 3 D t HOTEL,
CORNER OP
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
COSGROVE
r*
6.1
cUBMUn*
LA.
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’B Hotel) Proprietress.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THU BRIGHTON OB’ XT.S.W.
AT one CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., aie
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recheroM
dinner, you oan enjoy from the baloonies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country
here also you can have good company, good wines—ln fact, everything that oan possibly make one
comfortable oan be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Pionlo Parties provided. Tablt
da E6ta at 1 o'clock dally and Sundays, No expense 1b spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best In the colony.
Mr*. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
OvrOMT. OCBAN BEGAOB. MANLY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Gasfitters, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Medieval Metal Workers,
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Boad, Petersham.
F erdriau «Sc 00.
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS;
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber goodß for all purporei
Lists and Samples on Application.
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
In consequent of Imitations of TH& WOR CEST£RSO/RH
SAUCE Which art'calculated, Jofeeeioh', i the i
have id request that Putthastn m
heart their Sigtotufi ihu£i*
v t^ h4j J
without Which $0 bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE!
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask fot LEA and PER&IftS* Sauce, and sli Mam* on Wrapt*r. Label, Botßo amt
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester t. Crosse am§
Blackwell, London, &*e., &*C. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the WofiA
Mu i IB ii imi |l wiiT ump 11. .1 .jjl -—in ..ill ' 1 m i
vmw»4»hm ttimn mn>(kM
RECREATION! INSTRUCTION! AMUSEMENT!
I/,'*'™ l/f Kp W
* & "
El"
£gr, 4 J M,.TIIE LATEST AND MOST FASCINATING RECREATION IS
PIBOiTOGEAPHTI
PLEASURE and PROFIT!
• -i- \
t. I*' V- '
- 7
"v.fr-
v>-
a
*
■
'm,
«v
/(' > .
Pi
V
&W«!
780
¥**•«&*?
n
..v-r*
•**3
PLEASURE and PROFIT!
Largest Stuck at Lowest Prices for the Amateur and Professional Photographer.
INSTRUCTIONS FREE.
Commodious DARK ROOM and SKILFUL ATTENDANTS at the Service of our Patrons.
Call and see us or send for our Catalogues.
< : y
LICHTJNTER & CO,
PHOTOGRAPHIC - STOCK - WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, and
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH ST., BRISBANE.
Assurance Companies.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE.
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, IT Vlo„
No. 10.)
Registered Capital ... m (11,000,000
Paid-up and Subscribed ... (833,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman,
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 8 years _ 7 per cent.
For 6 months 1 per oent.
For 1 year _ 0 per oent.
For 8 months. 8 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the oorporate Beal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, Including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loanß granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, eto., Oolleeted.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Hiad Office—lo, &12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. 0. NEILD, Manager.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
Established 1849.
Head Office —87, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors:
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq., M.P., Chairman
JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Chief Medical Officer:
JAS. 0. COX, M.D.
Actuary:
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary:
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
This Society is the only Australian Life Office
which declares a BONUS EVERY YEAR.
The PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF PROFIT
are—the high rate of interest obtained on the ac-
cumulated funds; the small percentage that the
expenses of management bear to the annual in-
come ; and the extremely favourable rate of mor-
tality which continues to be experienced.
MEMBERS MAY BORROW on their Policies
to the extent of 90 per cent, of the Surrender
Value.
Policies are not forfeited so long as the Sur-
render Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
BONUSES VEST after Policies have been two
full years in force.
ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
The Australian Mercantile Loan & Guarantee
COMPANY, Limited.
Capital £600,000.
Sydney Offices: Corner of Market & York Streets.
Accident , Insurance and Guarantee Department.
General Accidents, Employers' Liability ,
Fidelity Guarantee Policies
Issued on the most Favourable Terms.
Proposal Forms and Tables of Rates upon
application.
Robt. B. Wallace • Accident Superintendent.
The Company also, in its Banking and Commercial
Departments, make Immediate Advances upon Deeds of
Land and all classes of Commercial Securities.
DEPOSITS received at 12 months, 7 per cent. ; six
months, 6 per cent.; and three months, 5 per cent., and
bonus at maturity.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL,
General Manager.
Busin—- »unounceiuents.
K IN G’S V'EWS
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLAN CAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&c., &c,,
316 BEORBE ST., between Hunter-si, ml S,P,Q,
TATTERSALL’B
IOXSTE& COimUTIOXS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year, For full particulars see
Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities In
“Evening News." Address, “TattersaU'e," eare
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Olub, Sydney, Per-
sona making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure.safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelope!, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
FOR SALE.—Two grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.


PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Subscribed Capital .. £540,151
■’aid-up Capital . £240,554
Total Income Last llaif Year £809,534
DEPOSITS S Pet tut. fit TWELVE UT.lt.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
EVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
this BRANCH offers the very best oppoitunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum, upon their Daily Balance.
AHPLE FUNDS {or Borrowers. TERUS LIBERAL,
m
:> a- : u : ii : a : aim.ijLia'j' a
rriTiiiiT 1
P„R E Mil E R
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
£JAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of Is. pe
SKare Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in Cash.
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received in October,
1885, £2O Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed only
£l4 Os., at the rate of Is. per Fort iglit for 11 years.
Hon. JOHN NIMHO, M.l\, .1.1*.. Chairman*
JAMES MIKAMS, M.l\, .1.1*., Secretary.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison
Doors open 7 Performance 7-45 : Carriages 10.45
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
Prices, 55., Ss., 2s. , Ib.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lasses. Mr. S. Lazar j Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
MISS NELLIE FARREN’S LONDON
GAIETY COMPANY in Miss Esmeralda.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Easbway’s.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thubsday and Satubday Evbnings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS
of
OUR BLONDINETTES.
THE JAPS, KOTOMO and MTTKEKE,
In an ENTIRKLY NEW CHANGE of ACTS
BONELESS and SINEWLESS.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony. Sd
1 BOTANY 1 BOTANY 1
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at S.SO.
Gband Saobed and Classical Concbbt of
Well-known Abtists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest 1—
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH Director.
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
IjT SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band every afternoon
and evening: conductor, Mr. Geo. Vassie.
EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING GRAND SPECIAL
NIGHT.
LADIES, Is.; GENTLEMEN, 2s.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL,
J\ George Street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Grand Sacred and Classical concert
every
SUNDAY NIGHT at 7.30.,
vhen will be rendered a choice and select Pro-
gramme, under the conductorship of
Mr. CHAS. AUSTIN.
SEE DAILY PAPERS OF SATURDAY.
Royal standard theatre,
Sub-Lessees...Messrs. Gerald and Duff.
Second Week and Unprecedented Success.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
Miss ALICE NORTON and Mr. H. C. SIDNEY
in the New Sensational Drama,
THE OUTCASTS,
supported by the Standard Dramatic Company.
Standard Prices—3s., 25., Is.
On SATURDAY, MASTER and MAN.
— f
A
OAD E M Y
Lessee and Proprietor
O F
... F.
MUSIC.
E. Hiscocks.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, and
EVERY EVENING UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.
, PROFESSOR CANNARIS
THE GREAT GREEK ILLUSIONIST.
THE WONDER OF THE WORLD,
Amusements,
ONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates —fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Pioprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
Mr. Brough and Mr Boucicault desire to notify
that owing to existing arrangements they can only
produce
A TOUCH OF THE SUN
for
THREE NIGHTS MORE
in which the popular comedian,
Mr. GEO. LEITCH will appear, and
Miss MYRI KEMBLE.
ADMISSION —55., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager— Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Business Announcements.
JOHN BUCKHAM,
286 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon
Covers (Greased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
Coolers, Whin Buckets all sizes, at lowest prices.
Note the Address.
Oldest established house In the trade.
JOHN 33 XT CHZ EE _A_ 3SA,
286 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
COURVOISIER’S BRANDY.
This celebrated Cognac, as supplied to the late
Emperor Napoleon 111., is guaranteed to be of
the purest and finest quality.
T. CURRAN & CO.
W. JAMESON A CO.’S
" MARROWBONE LAMB" WHISKY,
Which possesses all the delicacy of bouquet, rich-
ness and purity, characterising a carefully-prepared
article that has been favourably known to the
world for the past 130 years. In bulk or case.
T. CURRAN & CO.
CHAMPAGNE.
“ Beriet Fils & Co.” Dry, elite and first quality.
Excels all other wines, and commands favour in all
the Courts of Europe.
Thos. Curran & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS,
Temple Court, King Street.
ONUMENTS
T 1 in Granite, Marble, and Freestone.
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request.
J. CUNNINGHAM,
4ARGARKT BTRKKT. WYNYARD SQUARE. SYDNEY
“ Australia’s ” Monster Consultations. The
Caulfield Cup, run 25th October, 1888 6,000
Subscribers of 10s. each First Ho se, £1,000;
Second, £500; Third, £250; Staiters, £250; Non-
Starters, £250 (to be divided amongst
them) 100 Cash Prizes of £5 each ; 100 Cash
Prizes of £2 10s. each. The Melbourne Cup,
Run November 6, 1888. 10,000 subscribers at 20s 1
each. First horse, £4OOO ; Second, £2000; Third
£lOOO ; Starters, £7OO ; Non-Starters, £BOO (to be
divided amongst them); 25 Cash Awards of £2O
each; 25 Casn Awards of £lO each ; 100 Cash
Awards of £7 10s. each. I n this event there are
four separate drawings—lst, the horse, then each
of the money prizes, which reduces the odds of a
prize to about ten to one. Also, one of the Mel'
bourne Cup, 10,000 subscribers of 10s. each, with
the same number of prizes as in the above event,
of just half the value. Subscribers are particularly
requested to adhere strictly to the address at foot,
and register all letters, and apply early, so that
the fortunate drawers of horses may have time to
hedge. Enclose two stamped addressed envelopes,
for reply and result. Address “ Australia,” care
of Mr. Hugh Dalveen, Victoria Cafe Hotel, near
General Post Office, George-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
HAIItIutKS.SEKS about Commencing Business, as well as those already established, will find ab
CRAIG & AITKEN’S
New South Wales Barbers’ Supply House,
Shampooing Apparatus, American and Colonial Hairdressing Chairs, Scissors, Combs, Brushes,
Mirrors, Hot Water Urns, and every requisite at Prices which defy competition.
tS- AGENTS for the Celebrated 11 I'MIM ” Brand of RAZORS and SCISSORS, 'fel
Complete SALOON Outfit from £lO upwards. Assistants engaged for Town and Country Customers.
Note Address—
CRAIG & A n K F,N.
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
Price List Posted] 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. [on Application.
6
MEW BILLIARO TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY
BILLIARD jTJSHIONS, &a., MADE ON THE PREMISES
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men,
CUES .BALLS in stock, also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS ft BGWUh
BURROTJGHES & WATTS,
?, Little George Street, SYDNEY, M.S.W., and Soho Square,
The high-drawl-ic form of speech bespeaks
water on the brain.— Exchange.
Women are more modest about their in-
tellectual than their physical attractions. How-
ever low the corsage may be, the forehead is
usually concealed by a bang.— Puck. That’s so.
Women are more successful in concealing their
intelligence than in hiding their bust. — Bulletin.
The perky little Melbourne Heuald is in
a drooping state at present for want of something
to rai«e a scare about. As a scare-raiser it is left
behind only by the bull-dog running “amok,’’and
it is far ahead of that animal in its sober moments.
It is nothing if it hasn’t its hat standing on three
hairs and its green cotton umbrella waving in the
blast. It slaps the dirty dish-cloth of derision
alike in the faces of the just and the unjust; it is
the midnight cat of literature singing with a pre-
posterously loud voice on the roof of history, and
its tail is always in a swollen condition, significant
of its desire to claw down the heavenly bodies and
roll them on the floor. It never has been known
to fight since it first existed, but it always shows
signs of being just about to begin. In the course
of its stern career it has crushed one travelling
dentist who went round and pulled teeth with a
brass band ; it has been instrumental in “lumber-
ing ” an obscure person in the patent-medicine way;
and it has dealt so exhaustively with the question
of a Material Hell that everybody knows less
about it than when it started. It waved the oil-
skin of victory a good deal over these things, and
then it went with gory mien for a class of
humanity whose mission it was to devastate
hearths and homes with the mysterious watch-
word : “ Have you symptoms akin to the follow-
ing ?” But this last crusade somehow didn’t
seem to hook on, and for the moment the Herald
is desolate and has nothing to hoot about.
Mr. Clement Wragge, the Queensland
meteorologist, whom Messrs. Russell and Ellery
want to interdict from their separate fields of pro-
phecy, is not the novice that some of the news-
papers make out. He is a calculating Scotchman
witih his weather-eye open, and has charted all
sorts of meteorological tables in his time.
Editor Gallett, of Sydney, asserts that:
It is impossible lor any man, unless he were a critic of
great original power, to say anything really new on such
a work as the great poem of Dante.
Being possessed of “great original power” our-
selves, we rise to make the “ really new ” remark
that if Dante were beginning life to-day, and
came along with his “great poem.” not a single
journal in Australia, except The Bulletin, would
give it a show, except as a paid advertisement.
That is something really new, and it is just as
really true as it is really new. If Dante doubts
it, let him try for himself.
Tom King, the lucky knocker-out of
Heenan and the last (barring Jim Mace) of the
old prize-riDg fighters, is trying to renovate a
shattered constitution by sea trips. “Pendragon,”
of the Referee, who recently travelled in his
company from Norway homewards, writes rather
pathetically of the ex-gladiator and retired book-
maker, “now very much subdued and broken in
health.” King is not an old man—his contem-
porary, Mace, won a boxing-match only the other
day—nor has hs been a riotous liver, bull, some-
how, these champions are soon used up. Sayers,
Joe Goss —Deerfoot, Westhall, Perkins
—Chambers, Renforth, Boyd—moulder in the
grave. Most of those renowned bruisers, pedes-
trians, and oarsmen have been dead 15 years ;
some of them nearly 30 years. And the Grand
Old Man might have been father to the whole
crowd of them. Such is life.
*
m
*\
■>
BOTH IGNORANT.
MAGISTRATE: “DO YOU KNOW WHERE YOU WILL GO TO, LITTLE BOY, IF
YOU SWEAR TO WHAT IS NOT TRUE?”
BOY (of radical tendencies): “NO, NOR YOU NEITHER.”
—N.Y. PAIEB. ;m


OF THE
Coburg II Campbellfield laid Company, United.
TO BE REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES STATUTE, 1864.
Capital - £1,000,000, in 200,000 Shares of £5 Each.
The first issue, now offered to the public, is 100,000 Shares, of which 50,000 will be taken, paid up to £3 per Share, by the
Vendors of the properties to be purchased by the Company, in part payment of the purchase-money, leaving 50,000 to be sub
scribed for by the public in the following manner: —
2s. 6d. per Share on Application, ss. per Share on Allotment, and 2s. 6d. per
Share Monthly until <£3 per Share is Paid up.
It is not anticipated that any further Calls will be required, but should any be made they will not exceed 2s. 6d. per Share, or
be at intervals of less than TWO MONTHS.
NO PREFERENTIAL OR PROMOTERS’ SHARES WILL BE ISSUED.
All Shares will be allotted according to priority of application, the earlier applications receiving the fullest allotment.
TEMPOKAKY OFFICE OF TIIE COMPANY;
DPxexrriex ZB-a.lldLlxxg'©, 54= Coll ixme Street East.
PROVISIONAL WIRE! TORS :
Hon. JOHN NIMMO, M.P., J.P.
Hon. JOHN L. DOW, M.P.
THOMAS HUNT, Esq., M.P.
JOSEPH BOSISTO, Esq., M.P., C.M.G.
JAMES WARNOCK, Esq., J.P. (Warnock Bros., Maldon)
J. M. HIGHETT, Esq., M.P.
JOHN KERR, Esq., Glenroy.
JOHN ROBERTSON, Esq. (Haigh Bros., Collins Street).
J. E. GOURLAY, Esq., Hawthorn.
F. LINSEY FLINT, Esq., Hawthorn and Melbourne.
JOHN ROSS, Esq., Economic Building Society, Collins Street.
BANKERS :
CITY OF MELBOURNE BANK.
SOLICITORS:
Messes. STRONGMAN and CRAWFORD.
SURVEYORS :
Messes. BRUFORD and BRAIM.
BROKERS:
Messes. WILLDER and GRIFFITHS, Colllns Steed*.
AUSTRALIAN and BRITISH LAND DEPOSIT and AGENCY COMPANY, SHisbuey BuIldiNGS.
CITY AGENTS (MELBOURNE) :
Messrs. FRASER & CO. (Limited), Auctioneers, &c., QueeN Street.
SUBURBAN AGENTS:
SOUTH MELBOURNE
ELSTERNWICK & CAULFIELD
COBURG
FOOTSCRAY
CARLTON
ST. KILDA
Messes. LILLtE & DAVIES.
Mr. T. HOLT.
~ J. M. BARR, Nicholson Street.
Messrs. lEVERS & SON.
Mr. GEO. VALE LINTON, High Street.
COUNTRY AGENTS:
GEELONG
WANGAKATTA
BE KCH WORTH
BALLARAT
SHEPPARTON
SALE ..
Mr. JAMES HENDY.
„ J. CADDICK
Messrs. A. PORRIT & CO.
„ LAMBERT & WALKER.
„ S. M‘DONALD & WALKER
„ LITTLE & BORTHWICK.
SECRETARY (pro tem.):
JAMES H. MIRAMS, Esq., 54 Collins Street East, Melbourne.
This Company is being formed for the purpose
of purchasing and re-seliing certain properties at
Coburg, Campbellfield and Somerton, near Mel-
bourne, containing 4133 acres (more or less), and
thereby ensuring for the shareholders the oppor-
tunity of participating in the certain advance which
will inevitably be made in the value of these pro-
perties when the railway now being constructed
from Coburg to Somerton is complete, and the
consequent settlement in the neighbourhood is
obtained.
It is impossible to overstate the advantages
which these properties possess for the purpose of
suburban residences. The land is all high table-
land, from nearly every part of which magnificent
views of the City of Melbourne, with the bay and
its surroundings, can be obtained. The facilities
for communication with the city are complete,
no less than six Railway Stations being either in
existence or about to be constructed on or near the
land. The new line to Somerton runs right through
the properties, while the extension of the Coburg
Tramway, for which a Company has been formed,
will add to the convenience for travel of the whole
of the residents on these estates.
These properties will be purchased at various
prices, the average cost of the whole being a frac-
tion over £202 per acre. Bearing in mind the rates
at which land has been selling in the locality for
months past, this price is highly satisfactory to
the shareholders, and the vendors show their con-
fidence in the investment by their offer to still
retain an interest in the estates to the extent of a
quarter of a million sterling.
There is a valuable deposit of clay in one part of
the land, which is now being carted to Brunswick
for use in the potteries, and a very valuable
granite formation in another, which, if developed,
will ensure large profits to the shareholders.
There are three miles or more of frontage to the
Sydney-road, which, as settlement goes on, will
become as valuable for business purposes as are now
the frontages to the same road in the towns of
Coburg and Brunswick.
I {No one who has taken note of the passing events
of the day but must have come to the conclusion
that those persons have been most easily and cer-
tainly enriched who have invested their_money in
freehold land in the city and suburbs of Melbourne.
They must further have observed that the. largest
and most rapid profits have been made in those
localities through or to which new suburban lines
of railways or tramways have been or are being
constructed. . . „
This investment is especially adapted for the
convenience and advantage of Beesons Residing
in the Country, and who are unable, except in
the way which this Company offers, to secure a
share in the large profits which the townspeople
are realising through the great increase in the
value of town and suburban land, which increase
the extendt d settlement in the country districts
helps to produce.
The Residents in the City, Suburbs, and
Country Towns will find it equally to their ad-
vantage to become shareholders in this Company,
the terms of payment upon the shares having been
purposely so arranged as to bring them within the
reach of every thrifty person in the community.
A deposit in the Savings Bank will earn its care-
ful owner 4 per cent, per annum, while investors
in land, through the medium of Land Companies,
have been making for years past profits ranging
from 20 to 100 per cent. To all persons, therefore,
whose means are not sufficient to enable them to
make an investment in land upon their own indi-
vidual responsibility, this Company offers the
opportunity for making such an investment, to
any extent they choose, in partnership with their
fellow-shareholders.
The railway now being constructed through
these properties will, the department anticipates,
be opened for traffic by the end of this year, when
an immediate and large increase in their value may
certainly be reckoned upon.
It is now universally admitted that land is the
safest and surest investment; but in addition to
all the reasons which support this opinion as
regards land generally, there is one distinctive
reason for holding that opinion in respect to these
properties in particular. It is this : —Everyone is
aware that land on the south of Melbourne has
gone up in value much faster and much higher
than land at corresponding distances north of the
city, almost entirely for the reason that railway
facilities have been lavished on the one district
and denied to the other. This unequal treatment
will not be suffered much longer, and immediately
public opinion in the northern suburbs enforces its
just claim to equal attention, the Direct Line oe
Railway to the Flinders-street Station will
be made, with the result that these properties will
be doubled in value thereby. Let it be borne in
mind, too, that this increase in value will be inde
pendent of and in addition to the certain and
gradual increase which goes on daily through the
growth of the city and its population.
Applications for Shares can be made direct to
the Secretary, James H. Mirams, Esq., at the
Office of the Company, 54 Collins-street East, or to
either of the Brokers or Agents in Town
Country,


AUSTRAL PARK & RECREATION GROUNDS
COMPANY, LIMITED.
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES’ ACT, 1864.
Capital : £50,000, in 50,000 Shares of £1 each
Payable by Deposit, 2s. 6d. per Share on Application, and 2s. 6d. per Share on Allotment, Balance by Calls when
necessary, but no call to be made within one month of the previous call.
20,000 Sliaxes lxaT7-e already Toeexx applied, fox.
Provisional Directors:
G. H. BENNETT, Esq. (ex-
Mayor of Richmond).
G. C. CLAUSCEN, E->q. (ex-
Mayor of Fitzroy).
F. GROSSE, Esq., Torringa.
R K. MONTGOMERIE, Esq.,
New Brewery.
W. MANNING FOSTER,
Esq., Melbourne.
L. KONG MENG, Esq., Mel-
bourne.
G. MAYGER, E-:q., Mel-
bourne.
C. F. TAYLOR, Esq., 8.A.,
Melbourne.
JOHN ROWAN, Esq., J.P.,
Merchant, Mount Gambier.
G. M. PICKLES, Esq., Pickles
Carriage Manufacturing Go.
COLONEL MORGAN, U.S.
Consul of America.
JAMES MOORE, Esq., J.P.,
Contractor, Melbourne.
W. H MASTERS, Esq. (W. 11.
Misters & Co., Importers).
• -5
jft
MR
K
«i
il *
I
at»■ ‘»*ii ,
isC
I k
\iwrt
% j&lS&W^zx
ELECT/! IC PHO EM C
OFFId!
VIdIOFSOV MIAFI HI. IFS, SWAXSIOV STREET, MELBOURNE
Bankgrs:
BANK OP AUSTRALASIA.
Solicitors:
Messrs.TAYLOR & RUSSELL
Architect:
GEO. R. JOHNSON, P.V.I.A
Auditors :
HOWELL & MUEDELL.
Broker:
W. B. LOVERING,
Nicholson Chambers.
Secretary:
T. N. CURNOW
The AUSTRAL PARK & RECREATION GROUNDS
limited.
PROSPECTUS.
A Syndicate having purchased a large estate, beautifully situated on the banks of the Yarra, and close to the
e'ty, have decided to convert it into a People’s Park Garden and Recreation Grounds. Melbourne being the only City
of any magnitude that does not possess grounds of a similar character.
OBJECTS.
It is proposed that the grounds shall contain every form of amusement that can possibly conduce to the
thorough rational enjoyment of the people ; these will include an Aquarium, Aviaries, Ferneries, Fountains, and
Ornamental Waters. The grounds will be laid out by an experienced landscape gardener, and planted with the
choicest flrwers, shrubs, and trees, thus forming a charming r sort where families or pic-nij parties could, at a small
charge, enj <y the beauties of nature and art, no v only within the reach of a few of our more favoured and wealthy
Citizms. Lawn Tennis Courts, Bowling Greens, and Archery Grounds wilt be provided for the visitors. It has been
suggested by some of the Shareholders toat Bowling Breens and lawn Tennis Courts should be added to the
attractions of the Gardens, and that the Groundc should be of a thoroughly neutral character, thus all Inter-
national Club Matches can be played on a Lawn and Court with all the latest improvements, bo that the local
team may not have the advantage of knowing the Ground or Courts’ peculiar points, as against the visiting team.
TO CYCLISTS.
The finest Bicycle Track in Australia will 1)8 formed, so as to enable our amateur-cyclists either in private, or
in public performances, to compare their time records with those of England and America.
ELECT It 1C It AI LEV AY.
Arrangements have been made with an eminent American firm of engineers to light the whole of the grounds
and buildings with electric lamps, and to lay down an electric railway to convey passengers around the gardens.
Light refreshment bars, and an efficient staff of waiters will be provided, and patrons, if they wish, can be
served in the numerous alcoves, ferneries and arbours.
TO MERCHANTS, MANUFACTURERS, WAKE HOUSEMEN, Ac.
One of the main objects of the Company in forming these grounds is to cater for the increasing annual pic-
nics given by the warehouseman, merchants, manufacturers, &c., it being a well-known fact that, within 10 miles of
this city of Melbourne, there exists no spot whirs these gatherings can take place with any degree of pleasure, pro-
vision has be ;n mtde in the shape of a large banquettmg hall capable of accommodating two thousand people.
Kitchens, cloak-rooms, lavatories, St o., will be attached. A concert hall, large promenade platform with orchestra,
running grounds, bicycle track, aod quoit, skittle and bowling grounds. With such great attractions and facil.ties,
and in such close proximity to the city, the management are confident they will gain the unanimous support of tae
manufacturers, merchants, and others me atoned.
POSITION ANIk MEANS OF ACCESS.
The Recreation Park and Gardens are situated o a the banks of the Yarra, in a sheltered locality with lovely
s irrouadings, and are easy of aocess by either railroai, tram, or river ; fjr those who prefer the latter mode of tra-
velling, steamers will run at short intervals between Princd’s Bridge aad the grounds throughout the day and
evening.
ENTERTAIN MEN TS.
Tne grounds for evening entertainments will be made very attractive by the aid of the electric light and illu-
minated fountains with changiug tints, beautiful effects will also be produced by crystals, lime-lights, coloured glass
globes, Chinese lanterns, and different for ns of Oriental deorations A rreat feature will be made of the gran l pyro-
technical displays which will be seen on and near a large sheet of ornamental water, back d by a stage and scenic
representation 400 feet long. Noble terraces and slop :s, also a grand stand will be c instructed in f out of the lake,
affording accom nod ition for twenty thousand people. A plateau will be formed on tne summit of the terraces, on
which will b ' erected an imposing Byzantine pavilion 100 feet long.
A Bijou Theatre will be erected, and the Company propose to negotiate for any noveltie, s utable that may be
obtainable in the oolonLs, Europe, or America.
CLUB-HOUSE.
Toe Company also intend to bu'ld in a commanding position a Swiss Chalet, containing all the latest
improvements and conveniences for a Club-House. Members to be elected from amongst the shareholders, and they
Will possess special privileges for a small annual subscription.
INVESTORS.
In placing the balaice of the shares before the public, it is almost needless to remind them of th) enormous
sums of mcney spent annually in out door amusements, uch as racing, bicycling, ft e- work displays and other spur s„
and the profits derived from t 'ese gatherings are som jthing enormous It is also well known tn at tney take place, as
a rule, under tne most disadvantageous circumstance, there being no other attraction than the a tual perfor nance in
hand, ani in nrarly every caie, not half sufficient protection againit either sun or rain As an investment it is far
preferable to any mining or chance speculation. The receipts from the gates and the rents derivable from le-ting
the various portions of the grounds must pay haulsome dividends, and perhaps the greatest feature is that the
SliarrlmlmTs have an Interest In the Freehold of Lund Itself in propartion to the number of shares
thev hold, and When it is considered that this large block of land is with n l'w» Miles of the Gcucrul Post Ollier,
and will cost the Company £17,000 ; its value in a few years will be almost Incalculable.
OPINION OP THE REV. DR. STRONG.
RECREATION for the people.
(To the Editor of the Age.)
Sir,—l have read with interest your article on Saturday last on recreation for our working-classes The sub-
ject is one well worthy of attention. Would it not be well if something corresponding to the German Bier Garten
were adopted here ? Tnose wno have lived in Germany can appreciate the Bier Garten institution. In some modified
form it might, perhaps, with advantage be introduced here. The great obstacle is the difficulty of obtaining a suitable
place for a Bier Garten, where, of an evening or afternoon, patenamiliis and his household might spend a pleasant
hour or two, listening at intervals to good music. In our public gardens there is a difficulty in the way of charging
entrance money without which a Bier Garten cannot be maintained very well; and land being, unfortunately per-
haps, in the hands of private speculators, not a foot is to be had for such public purposes, except at a large price * If
some philanthropic, and at the same time wealthy, citizen would take the matter up, I think he would confer a <,"reat
boon on many who are compelled to live in the city, and who really have no place of resort with their families on a hot
a'ternoon or evening, unless they trudge off to Brighton or St. Hilda, to broil for a few hours on the beach at con-
siderable expense if there is a family.
Yours truly,
CHARLES STRONG.
OPINIONS OP THE PRESS.
THE PROPOSED AUSTRAL PARK RECREATION GROUND.
Extract from the “ ARGUS,"
Mention has previously been made of a project in hand for the providing of a pleasure resort which will add
to the popular and reputable attractions of the m jtropolis. The undertaking referred to is prompted by the Austral-
park Recreation Ground Company, who, having acquired nine acres of land abuttiog on the river at South Yarra pro-
pose to lay it out ornamentally and erect on it handsome buildings, suca as are found in attractive public gardens of
many of tie old world cities. The idea is to establish a pirns of daily amuse merit, available to visitors at a moderate
rave of admission, but it is contemplated to wholly let the park for such large picnic parties as may occasionally think
fit to en age it. The site is that of the old vineyard immediately opposite Law, Sumner, and Co.’s Cremorne nursery
and the lan d will c >st the company £17,000. It has a frontage to the river on its northern boundary of 750 ft and the
railway line forms its eastern boundary for a similar length. Mr. G. R. Johnson, architect, Little Collins-Street has
been entrusted with the preparation of plans, and it is intended that the work shall be finished in time for the opening
of the Exhibi ion next August or September. The designs provide for three entrances, one from a capacious riverside
landing-stage at the north west comer of the reserve, and two on the south side, namely at Murphy-street and Darling-
street. The latter entrance will be about five mmutes’ walk from Soutc Yarra station, a lake of considerable
dimensions will be a feature at the north-east corner of the ground, behind which will be a large fireworks
Extending from the Darling-street entrance, tnere will be a drive giving a sweep around the lower portion of the
park. Ovedooking the drive, the large lake, and the fireworks stage, a grind stand will be constructed, capable of
accommodating 5000 persons. On terraced ground to the rear of that will be bu It in brick and cement a large
pavilion, containing a dining-hall 200 ft. long. The promenade in front of tms wul give a commanding view of the
enti e park Other permanent structures include an o tagonal platform 100 ft in diameter for alfresco concerts a
b jou theatre n ar tne river eatrance, and at the soutn-east c Trier a large clubnmse, in the style of a Swiss chalet
Along the south anl we t boundary fences a series of summer houses will be placed, and no expense is to be spared in
order to give to the gardens a tasteful and elegant appearance. Operations are expected to be begun in earnest forth-
with, and some progress has already been made in enclosing the eastern boundary.
Extract from Leading Article in the “AGE.’
There is not much fear of Australians ever becoming as absorbed in dailv druigery a-i the kinsmen in
America. Our blue skies offer a protest against it. As holidays go no ”, there is manv a nard-working father nr
mother of a family to whom they only bring a change of occupation. This sin itself valuable bur, it is not recrea
tion. The a-pect presented by pleasure-seekers on on-i of our steaming Australian summer days- parents hampered
with the care of a postal of children dragged about to piaces whi ib fail to interest them—cannot be viewed with com
plete satisiac icn. It is easy to picture holiday enjoyment of a vas'lv superior kind. On the Continent of Eu rone
especially in tne Sunny South, artisans and peasants in the painting expeditions, and in their social gatherings’
m anifest none of tnat weariness so commonly perceptible among our excursionists. Family cares sir, more lin-htlv
upon them. What is wanted for our workers is to remove some of these cares. . . . Where is the charitable
organisation which will immortalize itself by establishing an airy , cheerful and attractive creche, in Melbourne
The SHARE LIST will CLOSE POSITIVELY on the 30th SEPTEMBER.
The Land has increased in value enormously during the last Two Months.


Hotels.
MiniUMt£M|lk& P*
$f®&OLABB accommodation for ssmmnelal
L BWtasa and others. Frlvata littlee rooms.
JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
®®** MORGAN HOTEL, QUBRMSLAKD.
***• Mitlngulahed patronage of His Esc-
j. Sir a, Musgrave, K.C.M.G. Aoaemmo-
Ki ® 8 ▼Wtors. Two-storey buildings. From
te » splendid view can be obtained of
Mg**®stsd mountain of gold, and within a few
Talk of the company’s works. Fasssngsr
afiOUNT MORGAN.
National Natal,
I, BEDROOMS.
Hotel has bean beautifully done up, and
j* sew read; for the reoeptlon of visitors,
i JHafort, Cellar stocked with best brands
' moderate. Mrs. Hnisan, Prop* lotesn.
" v/Ui>© dUinu
N,,
MHLBnUBN*-
KAIIWA* TURtSIHUO, SIPSNOSB-OOBNHO,
f r' patronising the above hotel, which
tin /*■ lately had an addition of over 108 rooms,
*U modern Improvements, such as light,
Ukfl «all L iaMva (inklla.
m •uwucu.u a _ ,
ijZ'i®’* weU-ventliated bedrooms, large public-
ly 1 “as&iag.room, hot and ooid baths, shower
-,in . . baths passenger elevator, electric
k j} '“•Phone, and all other hotel requisites, not
ln Australia. Visitors oanrely
called for early morning trains. Letters
called for early morning trains. Letters
promptly attended to. Prices very
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor
Medical.
t>R. SPEER’S
DIBPRNS *,RY 42 MARGARET 81RIBHZ
S I,
®*Wge ud Toi. Streets.) P.O. Box BIS. D».
» regular Graduated Physician, educated at
''•Uege, D.B. (for confirmation see New Zealand
J N»uary llet, 1886} also New Bonth Walee
Su Plf U ITth, 1888). The dootor has devoted 14
■- **• stud
ol OHRONIO, NERVOUS, AND
Pour of these were In the leading
opinion i
He
oomp)
ill guarantee
jjf. eme in every case he undert kes, forfeit
di«J reaB(m lor doing so is this—whe there no
la?** h e ’ * ni l nothing but an lnorganlo trouble, or,
“ ‘ toms produolng
cannot be re
he guarantees
"Honn'l u *swnotly understood that he does not olalm
Wlujj or to have power.
t ‘“Possibilities, or to have jmiraoulous] power j
KJBthlv i y . h be a skilled and suooeeeful physician
In his speciality— CHßONlC AMD
Cci 6 * .*?. K ASKB; op MEN and WOMEN. People
be u* “letanoe can, by explaining tb" 1 *
jCh ®**®d at home. The course ol
khd intArfovo uHfVi fiVioir hnaln
their troubles In
of treatment wflj
KLhiS , .!l*5 r Interfere with their buslneas. Examine-
CftiltT. v ‘ oe free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
filial Bviiw Margaret Street, between George and York
$K ta Post Office Box, No. 920. Office heart
V l l I*to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
***. Only.
H.
RICHARDS.
* Bc luge Bound TOOK on SBLF-OURB
Diseases} prloe, Including poet-
Hi I, H ItikmnH riA«iimlfiaHnn nnnttti notihlnv.
w >t*mps. Consultation cost* nothing,
S j?* °°otor will teU you at once whether your
U not. Addresr—
»o' RIOHARDB,
2® p RING STREET, SYDNEY.
l3a ess Announoemesis.
, Behan’s
f Gc/r oils
Embrocation,
Hurnu
Hair Grow over Oldest Soars.
®*LVER
MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
E°tJiK? led as a Dressing for FRESH
, ’» SORE BACKS, GIRTH
TO* q R °KEN knees, greasy
r an d QUARTER CRACK,
; and as an Embrocation
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS
*^gements.
- Bs. 6d. per BOITK9,
Sox,* Agumt
y/erfield, M.P.S.,
STREET WEST,
V Beth “
STREET, REDFERN 1
vl -* 11 Wholesale Houses, Druggists,
and Storekeepers.
Mir,Ea.
COMMISSION JL9KNT*
towers, Queensland.
Business Announcements
SjAPSfc
IT
AYDngy^
IP
W3RCILAS
i
fMr-CCJVSStpa
STUDY ECOKOIE
•*"*
!!»<« emir Umbrella Pnuilt
. ■»ereci, and jour
RarawOl* re-Uned and made
to New, at
J. SULLIVAtT".
Ml George Street,
Brickfield Hill, bettrvea
Hu tjrpool and BatLarat Bt»*s*
Jara'-ii* made to matct
terr-vj Repairs neatly'aser*^
PALACE FAMILY HOTEL
Corner of
SXANKBT AND MELBOURNE STREETS,
SOUTH BRISBANE
Vim-oiasß Accommodation. Suites of Apartment*
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID LYONS PsnpstnrOß.
Excelsior hotel, charters
towers.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
£60,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable In
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight In
Sold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
'ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Redfern, Sydney.
... "
.WANUFfICTURIKIf HATTESS
GEORGF STREET
SYDNEY
' i< PORTERS OF AIL THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE
v/j
hi
Ki
\K!NC
c<n
in
%
\V
*
>9
OBTAINED a
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR #'•
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT.
“JO
wc/gH’^
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
N ONE OTHER BUT
WAUGHS
Wi&EiVEOTHE INTERN ATfON AL
* Kr 1Z E MEDAL
Wanbfactured byJamesChannoH,
H arbouA SI SyoNiK
Sold by AH Grocers and Storekeepers.
Business Announcements,
A WONDERi-UL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
LLS
PI
A?
sE
*
4$
@
Are universally ad-
mitted to be worth,
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
1 old Chills,Flushings
of Heat, loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costiveness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
ling Sensations, &c. The first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A-. BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses ot them carry off all humours* and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions eiven with each box, they
will soon restore females o; all ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doees will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore, the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BEKCHAM’S PiLLS have the Largeit Sala of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and oppression of the Cheßt,
Wheeling, Ac., these Pills stand nnrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
COUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short urne be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. l}d. and 2s. 9d. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
N.B.— Full directions arc given with each box.
*T*HK BANE 07 NEW ZEALAND,
A Sydney Branchesi
14 PITT STREET, and 688 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 600,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the United States of Amerioa and
Canaan, cstd nan offer special facilities for dealing
In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills ot’looted on mo*t favour-
able terms, at rates which oan be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN Acting Manager,
SCIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE!
Ubr- ,
The Successful Treatment of > *
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and thef~- ~i
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No More MERCURY ob otheb NoxiousSl
Stomaohici Contaminations.
Or. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Ch. M., &0., w i m
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holder the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, hai
established the
Tltterlan Progressive Medical Institute, r, t
68, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Sorofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affeo-
tlons, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is ourable, he
will tell you so: if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting •
cure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your oose.
■CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Batterers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that I do not olalm
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I claim only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly Informed in my speciality.
Note Address—
PEO6EESSIVE MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
58, Fundees Street W., Melbourne.
MT Mo connection with any other Medical Institute is
Australia. Box 868. 0.P.0.
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
tAoe.
Business Announcements,
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
:*.V
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITIOK
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Balchm, Johnston & Go.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street. Sydney
Robert butcher m co
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
“ (Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out' 68
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
\\T E can recommend the Imperial Haim
f f Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address—
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS tND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into tho
Colonies. >
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will ceitainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
f ASttiMA 'BR®NCHfTISr;O UG H 3
i r iimlWrKgs
rtKST fSfclW 4 *' 1
6. STEPHENSON
HAS OH SALE-
WINK CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATPJ
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &0.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STE~» |
Between King and Mark-t Streets,
arr** u««i
OtpvriQht* |
■kouat*c£S wilSisrSn
}9*ar<fl Flixir Aid fki§. j
■rvrl UfiU fait on oithir frfflJdl'
head *sr hare fact. Fcrcoo
h*avy Moustache in from 51 t<> ,
4 weeks and never fails 30„0OC
- - young men aLrvady vtear full „. oc . „
beards, having used Sto $ pkto, JVo injury,, molly appliod 0 certain
in effect. Packets, I» tfcj each l for 3*. -S&, (?o/?£ paid l t «n9w>Jlop
wver 0 f~tefrom observatfan. idarena f £oI«
goa» TBo t g y.O, M »y ■*»<>»»
SW ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Ollsklr
• m PITT STREET,
Maronnas on Hire
;;t:
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
tin-passes all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Thrss Oold M*’its-
PARIS.IS7B, CALCI T1A.1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality
Atkinson's Newesi Perfumes
FAGIUEA & CYMBIDIUM
sre of rare and peculiar fragrance, anil being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents
ATKINSON’S
1 MMS
odour It far surpasses the numerous com
pounds sola under the same name
ATKINSON S FLORIDA 'WATER
an exceptionally fine pertume for nle hand
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics
Of all I , and of tin Manu/acturtrt —
. * B ATKINSON,
it, Otn Bond Btxxst, London.
L Trade Mark—“ White Rose on “ Golden
Lyre.”


ROYAL
POWiEi
Jkbg©!yt©lf Pur®
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
jreast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powdeb Co., 108 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS to 00.,
New South Wales.
*a»oins ot
m WINHB, SPIRIT B« BBHRS, &o. n OnO.« "M
George end Glppe Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES i-
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to It yeas* old)j W. Jameson’s, Dun villa’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
35.(01d dork) Whiskies. Henneßsy’s, MasteU'a and Sazerao’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Sooteh Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
*■" The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. HT All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled A Je and Stout, by monthly steamers.
Prlnca of Wales’ (Mat, 778 & 780 Georga-straat.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 Ueorge Street, Sydney,
m SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
nmm inns' umsim ran ui imrni,
■ :iM GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdbbn & Sons).
Prodaea Stores gipps street and darlinghurst road.
, HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales' Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.'
WHW
FURNTTCJRIfI WAREHOUSE]^
YORK rnUHTT. RYKYARD SQUARE,*”
AND
60 CLARENCE 'STREET,; SYDNEY,
■albtama, and '^London.
XLLUBTSATBD9OATALO9UH WRI PR JOB LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,'
WALLAOH BROTHERS.
wmm, not, ww*
i ,
Ftt Artiitd# Pnriitc »Ed
«u»m fining MftMM *Od WUlMmi
Photographs •* f . f *
IMJUKLIMON? I « 3
ROYAL
'STAND
CjLEMAHE & £ |f
EUCALYPTB 01“
AND
Victory
A Pure Extract from * he 1
Awarded GOLD MEDALA^®**^,,,
lit Prize Great Centennial
.. . . „ „
Can be need for o° nBa “J?fßad^SS
•hitla, Rheumatism, NeuraW». ld ,,T)f*»"l
and Gravel Oomplatnts, SproU^O®*
Goat, eto. Posted to any add
tD 1
oocyi^ u^Sff*3lS^‘
Manufactory übTB ®
Sydney .Depot : 227
Sold_byj|U_ob£s!=^^pi
OB R a J*
L.K.C.P., Bdla., L.K.OA Ml s» W»gj
registered In great Britain, and jjglrt
late surgeon to H.R.H. Prl “?f yreset ***igsfft**
Resident Medloal Offlcer to »** I JJ, *«P "
London, speolallst for the treatffl B || lj
and Heart Diseases, fco. _
Consultation by letter •* ?
charge, at Kdgar House, «•* 1
Hunter-street Sydney.
la every ttH?*
lues ei u»a«* * >* u
Ihomsed* of » a ®*S!S,? srllf jUi
men!!/ iSiele bena*^
lest<fireet»oi*|rt‘“ygf ***"|fl»
ir too surr*» w >,»**<* oi -
SWRSftSa"^
kllmanW of human!
■ognlied. Fullest
svery disease ir i»w
featured only at 78 Nrw
ihasers should look
If the addrsss Is
ipurlens.
WILLIAM
BULLART), 342 GEORG E
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
Fans, Easels, Brackets, Purses, Card Cases and Japanese Carlos*
BALL PROGRAMMES.
CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THE
W ertlieim
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
V I C T O RI iL.
MELBOURNE
Richmond
Windsob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
EOHUOA
BEECH W ORTH ...
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL...
SALE ... .
MARYBOROUGH...
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bonrke street.
69 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
66 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aesohlmann’s.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
TaylopQrtf’
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OB PACKETS THROUSHaUTTH 2 ® 1
«So SOWS, Caxxla.gr©
a-. r\
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
City Repository:
Metropolitan Manefactory
B, 7,9, II LATROBE STREET
32, 34, 36 BRUNSWICK
El®®
O'
IT2"
ASSURANCE SOCIETY
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
H
WIESENER'S WATCHES! WIESENER'S WATCHES! WIBSENBR'S WA^
~2* -* ftnd PubUo °“ rely upon being Beryed and chea P<* the long ran than
ROTHERHAM and ENGLISH WATOH OOMPANY'S/ISILVBR ENGLISH PATENT LEVERS, from 70b. m WALTHAM
Remember the Address-!
AVE proved a success as Useful and Reliable Timekeepers these 20 years. The reliable lines of cliaa*** * i{ , aa . ia-s . .
. the PubUo can rely upon being served better and cheaper in Se ddly > g
WATOH® 3
T. F. WIESENER, Watchmaker, Jeweller and Optician, 334 George-street, Sydney (half-way between Hunter-street and Post
Office)-
