

9
The HITCHCOCK Patent Lamp.
THE BEST KEROSENE LAMP IN THE WORLD!
Vastly Superior to any Gas ever made in Australia!
SOLE AGENTS—
1. WILSON l CO., late R. Allinghao,
5Q Street, 537-d.ra.e3r_
c:
a?
LS
to J, \
1
.gas ev VViiU °ck Lamp is universally admitted to be the best in the world. Gives a soft, steady, brilliant light gieatly superior
0 £ er yet made in 4ustralia. Costs only One Farthing per Hour. Entirely free from odour. No smoke. No
1L ex plosion w.
I L|GHTe ° lamp may be overturned on top of the most combustible material
| J t WITHOUT DANGER, AS IT INSTANTLY GOES OUT.
a y be capsized without a single drop of oil escaping Exceedingly strcng and durable in every part.
Will born steadily in a strong breeze.
For Halls, Churches,, Theatres,
% Sh
P Windows the Hitchcock Lamp with Bracket has no equal. „ _ , ,
®iw ls gre a +i tea nilioats, Hotels, Billiard Tables, Warehouse Interiors, &c., the Hitchcock Lamp with
h ’ su P erior to gas, and at one quarter the cost. Admirably suited for Dwellings, Railway Carriages,
f Cars? and innumerable other purposes,
in many Country Townships throughout New South Wales and
with great success. Adopted on the leading Intercolonial Steamship Lines.
k w None genuine unless supplied through
ON &, CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
ALSO AGENTS FOII
*
r’s Patent Kerosene Oil Stoves!
h jp TOVE 3 s Safest, Cheapest, and most Portable yet known. Burns at a cost of One Halfpenny per
d Kettle in Seven Minutes ! No smoke ; no smell; no danger of explosion. Equally invaluable in the Kitchen.
anger ot exph
the Sick-room and the Bush. Light, Clean and Durable.
Kitchen.
o X-oxg-ex tixa,xx ©. Pamily ZBiTole l
: Wilson & CO., Sole Agents
(Late R. ALLINGHaM),
X* 58 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
C lCot ‘k l amps Cleaned and Repaired at the above address at a Nominal Cost.
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.
Hard man Bros.
«K
rBSSBE
ANUFACTURERS
sv.
I
ISCUIT
' tQuar* sr/tvp/
( ‘ IR£ACI£ jty
Rff/HffiS /A
7 esro
/398 (
A 3NO AS xS 330037 HONVOQ
9 A,
IMk
NMOIMJN A001DVJ1331330 i¥^H
mmmmumm
sb crTtyOTJTOrag) 1
Waverley Motel,
OOLLINS-PLAOE, COLLINS-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
Comfort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513
MRS. M. COLES, Proprietress.
Business Announcements
CO
TO BA
W
m
*
a
o
=0
0
§s®
\?o&V
SIR ROGER
50
r
o
r
1a
DIXSONS
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
CONTRACTING CARRIERS,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office :
TOWNSVILLE, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
{OZEIU ’ BOUnOT AGENCY,
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable
information.
79 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. Kilda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and its after effects.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
•imply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
MOULTON’S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured,
not merely relieved, and we can prove what we say.
There are no failures and no disappointments.
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cures all
BILIOUSNESS, prevent , CONSTIPATION
and DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve
distress from too hearty eating, correct DIS-
ORDERS of the STOMACH, stimulate dhe
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
Extract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Business Announcements.
HK
REMINGTON
TYPEWRITER.
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, ae d condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.
410 Kenb-sbreeti.
"O M. RILEY
(late of the Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agenoy Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Rents and debts collected. From R. M. R.'s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution,
expedition and strictest secrecy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his care.
EHI>F PRBaCRIPTIQNS are co
■ HkCi be found In the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De-
bility and'Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps, Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
G. STEVENSON
HAS ON SALE-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, See.
COOPERAGE,
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
E CAN RE C O M M E N D
B. EIIBENE’S
Ladies’ and.Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address—
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
caxj HE] IsrSIL.-^2SriD„
Millar, carter and co.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency —T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
a nmun mim
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, TiCj
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days f
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 65., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. i. BOSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George-street, only.
Business Announcements.
McLEAN BEOS., RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
c
o
6
IRONMONGERS
o
**/
o
<9.
RE&o
<fc
S
Hauls’ Rawing, HLacJaina, AsXjeaXoamxa-wcoQl.'eaxnX., AWvvi Rs^waiA'gJaS?
KX.KCTHO -PLATED WAKK, CTJXXJMCX:, IOOLS, ~
GAS COOKING STOVES t—UffiONIS KIiBTCHER’S JEANS fc WALKER'S,
••• <■ ..’V. ■ • _ - V,.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &o.
WILUAMS’S
TEAS!
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
BREAD, TEA-CASES, PASTS'?. * 6 ”
abb m
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIB^’
WHKN MADE WITH |
Wlaas’ Australian least Fop
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THKJ SEA.
BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
SOLD IN TINS AT 6d. THE HALF P°
*
as
j£cE«m& on
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
7BOM
m
y*
PIMPLES to
if|IBFIGURIiSTG- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
MJ tions, Itching and Burning Skin Torture*,
Kioathsome Sore*, and every specie* of Itching,
[Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
Mtic Disease* of the Blood,.Skin, and Scalp, with
ILos* of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
ShmoUBA Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
toternally, and Gutiouba and Oiiticuba Soap, the
fp’eat Skin Cure* and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Baker*’, Barbers’, Grocer*’, Washerwoman’* Itch,
Etching Piles, and Delicate Irritation* peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
With Gutiouba Soap and a single application of
©utiouba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
Sally, with three do*e* of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
£Bealp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
With Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
amnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for year* fr-om Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
Have been obliged to shun public places by reason
#f my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
Blcians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
»o relief until I used the Cutioura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
Okl pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
&®ok» "How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
S. lirnni A Co., Hew South Wales,
CUTICURA RESOLVED , the M
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, ®^ e9 ® n( j P°*Vr
and Perspiration of all Impurities frjgfi- ' l( '
Elements, and thus removes the
it cures speedily, permanently, and ®
Cuticura, the Gbkat Skis' o®**Jl v&jfit
Jelly for external use), instantly wjBVLot hjfK
Inflammation, clears the Skin and S c 9 s 0
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead P ytjo'P
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging^
stores the Hair, and beautifies the
Cntlcura Soap., an exquisite P*
and Toilet Requisite, prepared fr°® Be g, r
indispensable in treating Skin Disea nas* /
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly H e9t U
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or
Cnticnra Remedies are the
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers irc e L e xei ? t oWs
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other nam , pVLfI
table poison whatsoever. Guarani® f^e n
pure by the Analytical Chemists 01
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists ‘‘fV f
druggists throughout Australia, Taenia
Zealand. Cutkjuba, 60 cents per bO*’, o #s, y
$1.1)0: Ctjticuba Soap, 25 cents;
ino Soap, 15 cents; Cuticuba R bs
per bottle. .}y
PBBPABXD BT T»*
Potter Dtb» * Chemical Co..
FALLON’S GEORGE HOTEL,
Al*»
mHE above Hotel has unsurpassed accommodation for families and others. < mi $
■ - • • 1 '■ • ■ *• • 1 • • 1 -osite u ‘jid'
I
i fjapare no pains to make the comfort of visitors his special study,
Halir Sitting Rooms without extra charge. First-class Tables,
promptly attended to.
GOOD STABLING AND LOOSE BOXES.
J. J. FALLON, Propr^ 1 J


The Bulletin
VV. 9-'To. 431
SATURDAY, MAY 5, 1888.
Price, 6d
J. B. Patterson: A Victorian Political Veteran.


NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony— you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere. , %
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... £lO 0
Half-yearly OIX 6
Quarterly ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
" Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But w*
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
ihtJ^aUetin.
SATURDAY, MAY 5.
The Philosophy of Suicide.
A few days ago at the Circuit Court held at
Goulburn (N.S. W.), Judge Innes avenged
the outraged majesty of the law on an un-
happy wretch who had attempted to commit
suicide within the confines of Berrima Gaol.
The criminal system of an alleged Christian
country had sentenced him to a prolonged
term of imprisonment in that fastness of old
convictism, and the monotony of his seclusion
was ordered to be varied by occasional terms
of solitary entombment —that peculiar kind
of discipline ranking next to the “cat” in
New South Wales as a means of elevating
the moral tone of the community. But in,
this particular instance the spiritual aspect
of the case seems somehow to have missed
tire. The long agony of loneliness and
misery within the four dull walls of that
grey sarcophagus, the sense of utter desola-
tion and abandonment, the awful conscious-
ness that the world had suddenly shrunk to
a few square feet of dull hideous sameness
whose leaden monotony beats upon the brain
like a hammer pounding out a dismal tune to
the clang of accompanying fetters, the un-
speakable silence which preys upon the mind
until the grey flag-stones and .the white-
washed walls seem to he smothered voices
all keeping time in the same pitiless, endless,
changeless, unchangeable rhythm—all these
features in the great reformatory system
exercised their maddening influence upon
the prisoner until his mind became
unhinged, and he wanted to get away
from a world where men invented
such refined and picturesque torments.
But, somehow, he failed in the attempt, and,
having thus uselessly outraged the doctrines
by which the divine plate is animated, he
was dragged before Judge Innes that that
Fijian nobleman—did he leave his mercy
in Fiji ? —-might minister to a mind di-
seased. In cases such as this, the one
fixed idea of Australian law is that imprison-
ment is a cure for everything—even death
itself—and the offender in the present
instance having been already broken cuyiyrii
by confinement, the Judge promptly deck"
that an extra three months’ incarceration
would about meet the demands of the ease,
Probably he himself saw nothing grotesque
about the sentence ; but then, the Bench
lias no sense of humour. It is made of
wood.
* * *
In cases where the “ cat” cannot be ap-
plied imprisonment is, in the view of Aus-
tralian justice, the appropriate remedy for
every evil. It is to the law what eternal
damnation is to the Church, and though the
Church swings the larger and heavier
weapon, the Law can console itself with the
recollection that its peculiar implement is
more manageable and more reliable than that
of the rival establishment. And, in addition
to this, it has a sort of compound or reflex
action, which enables it to produce beneficial
results under all circumstances, no matter
how adverse. The Church cannot eternally
damn the sinner for his own good and then
damn him some more in case the original
sentence fails to produce the desired effect,
but when the Law consigns a criminal to gaol,
and the dismal sameness of prison life'drives
him mad, it cheerfully prescribes more
gaol to cure his infirmity ; and when he
seeks to die, as the only possible escape
from the hideousness of his existence, it
piles up these horrors in order to induce him
to live. The old traditions of convict Aus-
tralia tell how the prisoners in those bygone
days were flogged when they were unusually
quiet, on the ground that their conduct
probably covered some deep-laid scheme of
revolt, and when they were driven by this
means into insurrection they were flogged
again to get them out of it, and, having been
got out of it, they were flogged some more
to prevent a recurrence of the mischief. On
a somewhat similar principle, an offender is
now sent to gaol because he is not bad
enough to be hanged, and when his misery
drives him into an attempt to hang himself
he is ordered more gaol to prevent his re-
newing the endeavour. In the Australian
criminal system great things and small are
mingled together in picturesque confusion.
Australia, as a so-called Christian land,
builds its judicial policy on the Scriptural
code which, in its turn, is built upon the
flames of Tophet as the last great immensity
of torment to which the souls of the evilly-
disposed are consigned ; yet when a miser-
able mortal deliberately seeks these ever-
lasting fires he receives a sentence of three
months’ confinement to terrify him from a
repetition. of the experiment. Sometimes,
by way of piling up the bathos of the situa-
tion to the uttermost, the sentence sinks as
low as seven days’, and at this point the
great absurdity must culminate—there is no
further pinnacle of folly left to scale. Hell
was built as the worst and final terror which
could be threatened to scare a hardened soul
into repentance, and the Australian magis-
trate finds it necessary to tack a sentence of
seven days on to this gigantic scheme of
vengeance in order to scare man away from
hell itself.
* * •
Suicide, as an offence, has never been ac-
curately defined. It is the one transgression
recognised by law which is at once crime and
punishment in itself, and the greater the
crime the greater the punishment to the
offender, as he is himself both criminal and
victim. In the eyes of priestly dogmatists
it ranks as murder, and, in a feeble and
grotesque effort to effect a compromise be-
tween dogma and common-sense, the law-
adds a legal penalty to self-inflicted suffer-
ing and mental aberration, and ranks at-
tempted self-slaughter on the same plane
with drunkenness and petty theft. The
penalty, however, only applies to the would-
be offender ; the successful criminal is be-
yond the reach of human vengeance.
“ Committed self-destruction while in a
state of temporary insanity ” is the inevit-
able verdict over the complete suicide. Ac-
cording to an old-established legal precedent
the suicide is always insane, but the proof
of insanity lies solely in his success. The
man who is cut down by some meddlesome
stranger half-a-second before life is extinct
is adjudged to be of sound mind, and is
consigned to prison as a responsible being,
while the man who is cut down a second too
late is morally whitewashed because he has
proved his innocence by being dead. Thus,
according to the legal practice of a presum-
ably sane country, madness and death are
synonymous terms and only corpses suffer
from insanity. Moreover, the difference
between mental soundness and hopeless
derangement lies not in the patient himself
but in the strength of the rope by which
he suspends himself, or in the presence or
absence of a vagrant policeman with sense
sufficient to release him before life is ex-
tinct. If the intelligent officer chances to be
present, the offender is sane ; if he is
absent, that is held to be sufficient evidence
of lunacy. Suicide is thus a strangely ano-
malous, offence. It consists essentially in
self-destruction, but the only man who is
responsible for the crime is the man who
does not commit it; the man who does com-
mit it is declared to be irresponsible because
he has committed it.
• • •
But there are other and stranger anomalies
in the existing system of law as applied to
this offence which is only punishable when
not perpetrated. The wdiole legal system
of civilised nations is built up to protect the
individual man from injury at the hands of
others, and taxation is the price which the
individual pays for this protection. But no
man pays the State for protection against
himself, nor does any State undertake to
protect anyone from the consequence of his
own misdeeds. Man is permitted to injure
himself in a thousand ways and the law
takes no cognisance of his action, but in this
one case only it attempts to avenge itself for
an act which does not concern it so much as
one iota, by a punishment which is either
ridiculously excessive or ridiculously inade-
quate to the magnitude of the offence. Suicide
is either a crime against the State or against
the moral law. In the former case even one
hour’s imprisonment is an absurdly severe
sentence, considering the trifling nature of
the injury wrought, for the damage to the
State is merely the loss of one worker among
millions, and in almost every land on earth the
number of workers is now in excess of the
available means of employment. Even in
New South Wales, with its scanty population
of a million souls, there are nearly 10,000
unemployed male citizens at the present
moment, and the one citizen who commits
suicide thus relieves by one-ten-tliousandth
part the aggregate misery of his fellows,
and by so doing ranks in his humble way
as a benefactor to his species. Already the
world is strewn with monuments to men
who in their whole lifetimes have done less
for the human race than the obscure toiler
whose one public appearance was at the end
of a rope dangling from a rafter —Governor
Phillip, who hanged sixteen-year-old boys
for stealing eatables, is to have a statue at
the instigation of a man named Smith —and
yet the world has no gratitude for this
humble and self-sacrificing philanthropist, and
even attempts at times to refuse him Chris-
tian interment. But if, on the other hand,
the sentence passed on tile would-be suicide
is based upon Scriptural law, then it follows
that a term of imprisonment varying from
seven days to three months is held as suffi-
cient to square the crime of attempting to
consign a human soul to endless torment ;
and in that case it can only be said that
human souls have fallen very low, and that
endless torment is at a discount. But this
latter view of the position is hardly permis-
sible. The State takes no account of souls—
if it did, the clergyman or the priest would
be an essential witness in murder trials, and
one of the most important points for the
consideration of a jury would be whether
the victim’s soul was lost or not, and the
punishment of the murderer would be
meted out according to whether lie had or
had not hurried an unprepared being before
his Maker. Legal research stops at the
grave, and the law concerning attempted
self-destruction remains still unexplained.
» *
The first and simplest law of Reason is
that man belongs exclusively to himself. So
long as he abstains from harming his fellow-
men his actions are supposed to be un-
trammelled, and, so long as the would-be
suicide conducts his operations so as to injure
himself only, he is acting strictly within his
rights as a free citizen. No law can possibly
give him the right to blow out his brains in
his neighbour’s back-yard or otherwise
create a nuisance in his last hours, but
otherwise his doings concern himself alone.
He belongs to himself and not to the .State ;
if the State claimed him as its chattel it would
assert its right by making emigration a pun-
ishable offence, but while no legal enactment
is directed at the man who leaves his native
land by train, the man who prefers to leave
it by death lias every claim to similar im-
munity. Self-destruction cannot be sup-
pressed by any human law, for the man who
attempts to take his own life contemplates
placing himself by the act of a single second
beyond the range of all earthly statutes, and
no Act of Parliament ever constructed can
possibly affect his mind at a moment when
the gates of the Infinite are opening to re-
ceive him. Therefore the punishment which
is meted out to him when he has failed
in his endeavour is merely a sickly act ‘of
sentimental revenge and religious persecu-
tion. There is no reason on earth why the
atheist should not commit suicide ; there is
every reason why the Christian should not.
Consequently the atheist is sent to prison on
account of his unbelief, and because he does
not build his faith upon the great mystery of
after-existence on which neither law nor
judge nor jury is competent to pass an
opinion.
• * •
It is seemingly a custom with Sir George
Inne-s to write to the press to explain away
his decisions when they present to the lay
intellect an aspect of more than ordinary
foolishness, ancl we now offer to that judicial
light ten columns of The Bulletin in which
to cast one ray of sense upon his performance
at Goulburn. Furthermore, we give him
three months in which to fill the space in
question and to prove that his ,sentence in the
case under discussion was anything less than
an outrage upon the Christian faith. Accord-
ing to every accepted canon of the Scrip-
tural law, man is responsible to God alone
for the use to which he applies himself ; for
the care of his own soul he is answerable to
none but his Creator. Therefore, we accuse
every judge who passes a sentence upon a
would-be suicide of usurping the authority
of the Almighty, and encroaching upon pre-
rogatives which belong only to the Supreme
Power. T*f suicide is regarded as a social
nuisance, let it be treated as such by muni-
cipal bye-laws or otherwise, and, if neces-
sary, let abattoirs be built in our cities where
men can shuffle off this mortal coil at will
without inflicting annoyance upon their neigh-
bours, but let the enlightenment of the
Nineteenth Century be kept apart from the
barbarism of the First, and let the law-courts
of Australia be run on principles as widely
apart as possible from those of the Spanish
Inquisition. Suicide is a matter which re-
lates only t i the religious views of the soli-
tary actor in the performance, and for these
he alone is liable to account.
A S rrnion In the Young.
The careers of celebrated men always afford an in-
structive lesson to the young'. From the biogra-
phies of George’Washington, Uncle Abigail,
Gehazi, Ah Haynes, Titus Oates, and th e
Widow of Nain there is a moral to be derived
which should be chalked up in every gaol, lunatic-
asylum, skittle-alley, public-house, billiard room,
desert, or other place of popular resort, and the
salient points of their history deserve the prayer!
ful consideration of Kanakas, Chinamen, and
others? Man is an eminently imitative animal,
and where the elephantine bluchers which another
man gave a bill for have left their gaping prints
upon the tracks of life he is always prone to tread,
and thus it becomes the duty of all men of elevated
station to set an example which, when followed
by the coming generation, will prevent them out-
living their usefulness and dropping with a hollow
sound into a premature sarcophagus. Conse-
quently it was a proud moment in the career of
Uncle Abigail when, in the course of his late
tour in the noi them parts of New South Wales,
he stood up on a platform at Armidale, and,
spanking himself eloquently on the stomach, said
that he was all there. And then to a hushed
and awe-stricken audience Uncle Abigail did a
gruesome tale unfold.
* •
He arrived in New Bouth Wales at the age of
16 with 6|d in his pocket, and that sum had been
the foundation of his fortunes. If in these early
days of privation he had “blowed ’ the odd half-
penny in riotous debauchery his name might never
have been published by the husky foghorn of
fame, but he abhorred extravagance and hung on
grimly to the coppers. Later on he had 13
children, so that there was a halfpenny for each of
them, and in consequence of this embarrassing
number of descendents he was frequently mis-
taken . for a private academy when he took his
■walks abroad. His accent and his spelling, no
doubt, militated to some extent against this idea,
but as he didn’t look large enough for a kidnapper,
the public, after trying to account for him in a
variety of ways, always fell back on their original
impression. He had no rich relatives to assist
him and he had to struggle against the opposition
of a venal Press which slung a low-minded quill
in opposition to his shoe-emporium and other
undertakings. But, in spite of this circumstance,
he rose slowly and steadily, until he became an
elevated member of society. This result was
entirely based on the original Old., which had
been judiciously invested and perseTveringly turned
over. The frequent “ turning over ” of capital is
the source of all true greatness, except when the
capital takes the form of stewed tripe and the turn-
ing-over is done with a fork, in which case the result
tends rather to deterioration than otherwise.
Unhappily, however, Uncle Abigail’s G.'d. does
not appear to have been lent out for the whole 2G
years on the 100 per cent, basis which has charac-
terised some of his more recent transactions, or
the result would have stood thus :
First year (original capital of the shoeless Abigail,
aged 1(>), GUI.; second year, Is. Id. ; third year, ‘2s. 2d.;
fourth year, 45..4d. ; fifth year, Bs. Bd. ; sixth year, 17s,
4d. ; seventh year, £1 14s. Bd. ; eighth year, £3 9s. 4d. ;
ninth year, £6 18s. Bd. ; tenth year, £13175. 4d. ; eleventh
year, £27 l£s. Bd.; twelftli.year, £. r . 5 9s. 4d. ; thirteenth
year, £llO 18s. Bd.; fourteenth year, £221 17s. 4d. ;
fifteenth year, £443 14s. Bd. ; sixteenth year, £BB7 9s. 4d. ;
seventeenth year, £1774 18s. Bd. ; eighteenth year,
£3549 17s. 4d. ; nineteenth year, £7099 145."8d. ; twentieth
year, £14,199 9s. 4d. ; twenty-first .year, £28,398 18s. Bd. ;
twenty-second year, £56,797 17s. id. ; twenty-third year,
£113,595 14s. Bd. ; twenty-fourth year, £227,191 9s. 4d. ;
twenty-fifth year, £454,382 18s. Bd. ; twenty-sixth year,
£908,765 17s. 4d.
Furthermore, during the time spent in drawing-
up the above calculation the original 61 d. would
have earned an additional sum of £lojooo, and
before this article is finished and in print another
£30,000 would probably have to be added to the
pile.
* • •
This, however, is only the beginning of the
gigantic operation which might have been entered
upon had Abigail known as much when he
started as someone connected with his “Bank”
appears to know now. Uncle Abigail has 13
children, and these, he proudly states, are tread-
ing in the footsteps of their progenitor. Thirteen
children, each engaged in lending out at 100
per shent, would, in the course of another 26 years,
produce accumulated wealth to the amount of
£11,813,945, and if during this,same period the
old man were still pursuing the even tenor of his
way his assets would have increased to somewhere
about £57,108,864,000,000. And, further still, if at
the end of this epoch the whole Abigail family
lent their money to each other at 100 per shent,
the total which another year would show would
be calculated to make the human intellect reel in
its pawnshop. And yet in all these stupendous
millions the ‘‘ sliding scale of commission ” charged
by Abigail’s “ Bank ” has been persistently
ignored, and nothing has been allowed for the
“stamp on the bill-of-sale,” or for “valuation”
or “ legal expenses ” in drawing up that monu-
ment of commercial enterprise. A desire to
adhere closely to undecorated fact has prevented
us garnishing these dull and soulless figures with
the glowing hues of poetic fancy, and consequently
they stand forth in their bald and stern simplicity
as the living evidence of what 63d. comes to when
lent out perseveringly at 100 per shent without
any trimmings.
* * •
In conclusion, therefore, we rise to denounce
the working man as an ass and to call upon the
dull labouring clod to ponder on how money is
made. Few of the striving multitude ever dream
by what simple means the exploiter can live; they
struggle on and on in a dull routine of toil, envy-
ing the rich and yet never recognising the fact
that riches are within the grasp of every
man who possesses 6gd. Many a man who
was closing boots at £1 9s. per week 26 years
ago is closing boots yet, and is no nearer being
Minister of Mines, boss of an Orange Lodge,
owner of a grindery-store on Brickfield Hill, and
director of a “bank” which lends money to
poor tradesmen at 130 per shent, and a sliding
scale of commission, with a trifle for drawing up
the bill-of-sale, and then grabs their chairs and
bedding, and turns the borrower into the street,
than he was at the outset of his ignoble career. It
is to these dull working-bullocks of everyday life
that we address ourselves, and bid them keep their
“hi” on Abigail. Yet even he is not perfect.
Had he entered the banking business early in life
instead of merely taking a paltry and inconsider-
able part in it in the very autumn of his career, his
assets, as we have shown, would now amount to
hundreds of thousands, with hundreds of millions
in the near future, but still in his own poor, im-
perfect, “h”-less way the head of theN.S.W. “Habit”
Department has done his utmost to set a bright
example to the community. And the moral
taught by the 6hl. episode in his early career, when
taken in conjunction with one memorable
financial incident of his political life, is
that no man has any occasion to work.
The money which is to be gathered by making


boots for the poor is only a drop in the
ocean compared to the millions which may be
realised by taking the boots off the poor, and by
making small advances on the socks of the social
outcast. Man was sent into the world to lend
money on good security that his days might be
long in the conditional purchase which he fore-
closed on under mortgage, and the man who
labours is flying in the face of Providence. The
central point round which the universe revolves is
the pawnshop, and the pawn-ticket is mightier
than the sword. It is for the money-lender that the
earth reserves its crowns of gold, and they are the
only crowns worth fighting for—the laurel wreath
of which the poet sings is a valueless circlet of
more leaves, and both the singer and the wearer
are generally up the spout. The great statesmen
of the earth pass away and leave nothing but three
insolvency schedules behind them ; the great
warriors drag out their old age in dull obscurity,
and when at last they drop into the grave a
thankless nation sends round a slow, exhausted
hat to collect the wherewithal to place a bust
above their remains, as the symbol that they were
bust during life, and that the ruling passion has
followed them to the grave ; the great actor and
the great singer live till their voices fail them, and
then they are mute, like the man who broke a
blood-vessel while crying fish round the back-
yards of the suburbs ; the witching danseuse gets
paralysed in both feet; the grass wither eth, the
flower fadeth. But the compound interest wprketh
night and day, and the pawnbroker goeth on for
ever. All through life lie lends small sums to
the widow and the fatherless and then sells them
up, and when he dies he leaves a good business to
his heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns,
and goes to make advances on good shecurity
among the stars. He is the symbol of eternity,
for no one ever gets rid of him, and he realises the
dream of perpetual motion, for his shecurities
mount up even in his sleep. Therefore, The
Bulletin speaks to the young and says, “ Go and
be a pawnbroker. - ’
Another Home Rule Movement.
After nearly 200 years of Parliamentary union
with England, during which period Scotland ha
virtually enjoyed all the blessings of Englisl
government, the northern kingdom is starting
powerful Home Rule movement of its own. Eor
some reason or other the blessings of Englisl
sovereignty seem nowhere to be appreciated. A 1
the world over, every country which has tastec
the joys of British civilisation is burning to
throw off the yoke, and even where the subjec
race has been allowed centuries in which to assi
milate itself to its conquerors the animosity is as
keen as it was on the first day of subjection
France owned Alsace-Lorraine for two centuries
and in that short period the German inhabitants
became French in heart and soul, in manners
customs, and even to a great extent in language
and none fought more bravely for France than
the men of the old Rhenish provinces, when
in the dark days of 1870 their own Teutonic
brethren descended upon their land. Alsace
Lorraine has now passed under the Kaiser’s
sceptre, but the population still long to be re
united to the Republic, and so thoroughly
have they become reconciled to the mercifu
rule of their old conquerors that the Germans o:
the Rhine are now governed as a hostile race by
their own countrymen, and the cry of Vive la
France has to be suppressed by Prussian bayonets
Corsica, too, which only a few years ago was
purely Italian, has already become French in
every sense and aspiration, and everywhere the
truest sons of France are the men of htr con
quered provinces. But, somehow, England has
met with no such go d fortune. Seven centuries
of English rule has only embittered the ferocious
hatred of the Irish to their alien oppressors, anc
the aversion of the Celt to the Saxon is even
keener in 1888 than it was in 1170. The inborn
turbulence of the Irish race is the reason which
England invariably assign** for this state of things,
but against this must be set the fact that Irelanc
has been flooded over and over again with English
c <lonists, and that these, on tastmg the pleasures
of English rule as applied to a subject land, have
become Irish themselves, and have thrown in
their lot with the oppressed, and declared war
against the oppressor. The leaders of the liish
party are almost all of English descent, and
the Engli h in Ireland are the bitterest foes
with whom the English out of Ireland
have to contend. Wales, also, has been for six
centuries a part of England, and Wales is now on
the verge of insurrection and is founding a Home
Rule movement of no mean dimensions. India
has been blessed by English government for 130
years, and as a result it is honeycombed with
treason and sedition; and Scotland, which sent its
kings to reign in London, and which has sent its
members to the Imperial Legislature since 1707,
is building up a great National party in the cities
of the Lowlands with a view to the re-establish-
ment of a Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh,
while the ruder Celts of the Highlands are resist-
ing the British troops with arms in their hands.
Wherever English rule is known there is dis-
affection and incipient revolt.
The insufferable conceit and vanity of the
English people is the chief cause of this world-
wide sentiment of hatred and disgust. Wherever
the Englishman rules he endeavours to forcibly
carve the subject race to the English model; he
fl 11s all places of trust and emolument with English
officials because he regards the English official as
so immeasurably superior to any other on the face
of the earth that his rule must be the surest path
to universal happiness and contentment amongst
a conquered people; and he plunders remorselessly
without the faintest idea that he is doing wrong
because he does not believe it possible that he can
do wrong. As Cobden rightly expressed it: —
“ The greatest obstacle to any improvement, or change
in John Brim’s sentiments is the egregious vanity of the
beast. lie has been so plastered with flattery, for which
h : seems to have an insatiable appetite, that he has be-
come an impervious mass of selr-esteem. Nothing is so
difficult as to alter the policy of individuals or nations
who allow themselves to be persuaded that they are the
1 envy of surrounding nations and the admiration of the
world.’ Time and adversity can alone operate in such
eases.”
Sjotland has suffered the “egregious vanity cf
the beast ’ lor nearly two centuries, and at last,
finding him to b i incapable of improvement, she
lias resolved, if possible, to cut herself loose from
him, and to manage her internal affairs by herself.
* • •
The manifesto of the Scottish Home Rule Asso-
cia* ion states clearly and emphatically a few among
the innumerable acts of supercilious tyranny w liich
have made English rule no longer sufferable in
Scotland. Scotland entered the Union without a
single penny of debt, whereas England even then
was burdened with national obligations which
made her well-nigh insolvent. To-day she finds
herself jointly responsible for a debt of nearly
£800,000,000, almost all of which was incurred in
causeless wars against France, England’s ancient
enemy and S Gotland's old and steadfast friend. As
a result, taxation, which was almost unknown when
Scotland was an independent kingdom, is heavy.
In Ireland it amounted in 1871 to £1 Os. per head,
in England to £2 35., in Scotland to £2 12s. Od. per
head, the ratio in the northern kingdom being
swelled by an elaborate system of valuation, pro-
perty in Scotland being assessed at its animal
rental, in England and Ireland at about half that
standard. Expenditure, however, is on an inverse
ratio. In 1885 £490,000 was spent out of the
Imperial Treasury on public buildings in England,
£280,000 in Ireland, and £lO,OOO in Scotland, half
of which miserable dole had co be repaid out of local
taxation, and grants for other purposes run in even
smaller proportions. Scotland is taxed to support
the London metropolitan police and to maintain
the London parks, both of these, items, and many
more of a purely local character, being meanly
evaded by the richest city on earth and charged
to the general revenue; she is taxed to provide
pensions for English and Irish police, while her
own police are refused any such benefits; she is
taxed to pay for Irish education, and lias to de-
fray her own educational expenses out of local
rates ; and at the same time Scotch business is
utterly and systematically neglected in the British
House of Commons, and the northern kingdom
gets practically nothing in return for her vast ex-
penditure. It is a part of the general “blasted-
ness” of the high-bred Englishman to jeer at
everything Scotch. Scotch business is hooted out
of the Commons, and Scotch bills are voted out
“ for a lark ” by the swarm of English legislators
who neither know nor care anything about their
merits. It took 25 years to pass the present
Scotch Education Act, and the Criminal Law
Amendment Act was delayed 30 years, while
many other reforms which the people of Scotland
have demanded almost unanimously for a quarter
of a century are still as far as ever from fulfil-
ment. The Scottish law-courts are contemptuously
overridden by English judges whose usurped
authority is upheld by the English majority in the
Imperial Parliament, and North Britain is treated
with the same contempt which marks the lofty
English snob in his conduct towards all foreigners.
The average Englishman has a half-formed idea
that Scotland is a small and barbarous district in
the Far North where everybody wears a kilt and
speaks Gaelic, and where the Crofters need to be
kept down by English troops, and beyond this his
information on the subject is nil.
* * *
Nearly every country which is governed by the
Imperial Parliament at London now boasts a
growing Home Rule movement of its own. The
lofty, snorting derision with which the English-
man looks on everybody and everything which is
not English, and his utter contempt for the rights
of any land except England are the rocks on
which the Empire will shortly split. The grand
old mother country has conquered many lands,
but she has conciliated not one, and nine-tenths of
the population of Victoria’s dominions are held
down by the bayonets of the other tenth. When
the bayonets break—they are lotten even now—
then all will be ruin and utter destruction.
Innatural Sentences.
Unnatural offences would, under a Chinese
system of logic, be sequently enough punished by
unnatural sentences. William Williams was,
the other day, condemned at Wagga to 14 years’
imprisonment and two floggings. We would re-
spectfully inquire of Chief Justice Darley
whether, in imposing such a sentence, he is only
carrying out in a mechanical way the illogical
brutalities of the present New South Wales con-
vict code, or whether he really believes that lash-
ing is a cure for such morbid conditions of mind
as produce the act for which Williams is now
immured ? And if Judge Darley really does be-
lieve that the “ cat ” is a cure in such cases, would
he advocate the flogging of an asylum patient
who, while suffering from mania or melancholia,
committed acts regarded by “sane” persons as
filthy? And if not, why not? Judge Darley
may, however, consider that the curative pro-
perties of the “cat” are amongst the least im-
portant aspects of flogging. Men are to be deterred
as well as punished, and the flaying alive of one
for committing an “ unnatural ” offence prevents,
perhaps, dozens from imitating his example. But
how can a deterrent operate on a brain which
instead of being swayed by logic was carried irre-
sistibly to every point of the moral compass by
insanity ? Though even admitting the deterrent
effect of flogging from the standpoint of abstract
justice it is immoral to punish one man for the
prospective crimes of another.
* * *
If the impulse imparted to a diseased brain cul-
minates in an unnatural offence, why should it be
treated so philosophically in the lunatic asylum
and so brutally and uncompromisingly in the
Circuit Court? The cause of an “unnatural”
act is nervous derangement. The very wording
in the charge-sheet admits this ; the offence is
described as ‘ ‘ unnatural, ”i. e. , outside nature and
the laws that regulate ordinary human conduct.
In attempting to deal with something beyond
every-day human experience an effort is made to
calculate an unknown quantity, without the
known quantities of the equation being given,
and moral algebra is a science not yet sufficiently
advanced to apply to the problems presented to
philosophy by the great, vague, and hidden region
we loosely designate by the word Psychology.
But if the cause of an unnatural offence is ner-
vous derangement, how do you cure the pro-
pensity to commit unnatural offences by still
further deranging the nervous system by flogging?
And it is no moot question that the “cat” does
produce nervous derangement. The records of
the gaols bear witness to the fact that the sense of
disgrace and degradation is far greater in its ter-
rors than the mere physical pain. Yet it is pro-
posed—nay, attempted to be concreted in practice
—to effect a cure in poor, nervous, trembling,
broken-down and mentally-degraded wretches by
still further degrading them.
* * *
If the use of the “cat" can be reasonably de-
fended ; if it can be proved that the fear of it works
reform, then let its application be reserved to cases \
of garrotting, to deliberate swindling of all kinds,
including usury and the manipulation of sliding
scales of commission, but do not attempt to make
of the public flogger a physician for the treatment
of the insane or those on the borderland of in-
sanity ; do not transfer the lunatics who should
go to Gladesville or the Yarra Bend to the solitary
cells of Berrima or Pentridge prison ! The very
word “ unnatural ” relieves Williams of re-
sponsibility, removing him, as it docs, outside
the pale of nature and casting upon society
die duty of placing him in seclusion without any
intention of liberating him after 14 yearg'systematic
endeavour to make him still furthel deranged.
Let us be logical! If Society comes » the hard 0
conclusion that men of the WiLLiAiis™ype when
at large threaten its best interests, what folly is it
to imprison them with a view of torturing them
with floggings which may aid to a great extent in -
confirming and increasing their mental malady,
and then letting them loose after a term of im-
prisonment, enough in itself to drive any sane man
crazy ?
* * *
Society might even shirk the responsibility and
expense of locking up such a man as Williams
for the term of his “ unnatural ” life ; society
might conclude that an act of economy and mercy
would be combined in physically suppressing
Williams and gently removing 'him from the
sphere of human activity. Very good ! Such a
course would be consistent, even if merciless and
drastic. It certainly would be more humane if
carried out without any of the disgusting and
brutal paraphernalia that now disgrace our at-
tempts to legislate man into the realm of death.
But whatever we do let us act like civilised men,
and not like savages. Let us not “pander” to
any “ sentiment ” either maudlin or brutal. Do
not let us introduce Protestantism—the theory of
compromise—into anything which should be
founded on an ideal of abstract justice!
•
If we are compelled to sacrifice a victim, let us
do it with all firmness yet in all sympathy.
If it is necessary to eliminate a man, it is
totally unnecessary that his elimination should
be performed after the manner of the Choc-
taws and Sioux. We do not wish to peg
him down on the ground and dance upon his
diaphragm, to blast his eyes out of their sockets
with gunpowder, or even to send him to a brutal
and gruesome scaffold with all the attendant
hideousness of sheriff and parson and gaping
reporters and bestial wantons who love to gather
like birds of carrion round any spectacle of blood.
* * *
But this aside. We do not think that elimina-
tion is the only course. Humanity, all the wide
world over—save in New South Wales—-is grow-
ing more averse to the shedding of blood. In
England and in America “unnatural” offences
are not punished by the administration of the
lash. In France and in Germany the lash is not
administered at all, and just as New South Wales
stands alone in the brutality of its code against
the rest of the world, so do Chief Justice Darley
his Australian colleagues and those who made the
odious laws that they administer stand alone in
regard to the world of science Were Judge
Dalley to write to Herbert Spencer or to Dr.
Maudsley, and enquire from these two great
psychologists the nature and extent of human
responsibility in such mental disease as that of
which Williams exhibits symptoms, he would re-
ceive replies which would make him blush for
shame.
* * •
It is an eternal disgrace to the medical pro-
fession of Australia that the doctors do not
interfere, and make, in regard to these matters,
scientific representations of physiological and
psychological facts such as would materially
inflect the attitude of the law in regard to them.
Of course, the doctors do not interfere because it
would mean a bold and determined fight, and as
individuals they are too cowardly to undertake
the contract. Too many of them are content, as
the lawyers of the colonial Parliament are content,
to lead, for the sake of social and professional
advantages, a life of diplomatic hypocrisy—to sur-
render their reputation for mental acumen for com-
mercial considerations, like the veriest huckster.
They recognise the fact that enthusiasm would be
fatal to their pecuniary prospects—that a dis-
play of interest in anything beyond the symptoms
attending the indisposition of their patients would
jeopardise their position in that “fashionable” and
hollow-hearted world which shudders even at the
mention®f anything “nasty.”
• * •
The legal and medical professions of New South
Wales, the convict code inflicted on that un-
happy country by an ex atiorney-gf neral of
Vandemonia, judges and barristers down to the
most infinitesimal suckling of them all, act as if
they really believed that a man when suffering
from paralysis of the extremities “had something
the matter with his two feet”—only that and
nothing more. The legal medico, the Supreme
Court Judge, tinkers around a mental cancer, and
expects to effect its eradication by irritating its
surface.
The way of the renegade is ultimately hard.
The other night, at the would be Australian
Nationalists’ meeting, Alfred Miller, with the
greatest difficulty, obtained even the meagrest
hearing ; but it is noteworthy that the boohooing
he received was awarded not because he had
sold the lamp-post interest or turned dog on the
culvert faction or acted obliquely with the Hard-
shell Baptist party. Australian Nationalism is
creating greater issues and the sentiment mounts
a rung higher. He was hooted because “he was
a traitor to his country.” Twelve months ago
such a cry would never have been heard. Young
Australia is finding out that he has “a country,”
and when once this fact is driven finally home the
Kyardinal will fulminate in vain at the altar of
St. Mary’s against the Education Act, and Sir
Henry Parkes will toot the bugle of Kiama-
ghostism till he is black in the face. They will
not be recognised as war-cries in the political
battlefield of the future. Australia will turn its
back alike on Bomish Church and Orange Lodge,
the Hibernian Brotherhood and Abigail\s Bank.
♦
“ The law is a hass.” At Sydney Central Police
Court, one W] t.son was charged with attempting
to perform the operation known as “ running the
rule ” over one Edward Daley, and relieving
that gentleman of the sum of sixpence. Mr.
Wilson had only partly performed the feat when
he was arrested and taken to gaol. Next morning
the Bench, being unable, under the existing New
South Wales statutes, to deal with the case, com-
mitted the prisoner for trial at the Quarter Ses-
sions. Now, had Wilson got clear away with
the sixpence he could and would have been sum-
marily dealt with for theft, but, as the case was
one of attempted theft only, the country must be
put to the cost and Mr. Wilson to the incon-
venience of a trial at the Quarter Sessions. This
should be a solemn warning to sneak-thieves in
(general to perfect themselves in their profession.
* /
Cardinal Moran is said to be poor, and his
friends are endeavouring to make a virtue of his
lack of funds. This is evidence of the gap between
the Christianity of to-day and the Christianity as
it was preached by Christ. Cardinal Moran is
poor by the veiy nature of his ecclesiastical office,
and according to the traditions of his Church.
His reward is not of this world. He has—it is
assumed by those who still believe the statements
contained between the covers of the Bible—laid up
for himself treasures where moth and rust do not
corrupt, neither do thieves break in and steal.
His poverty is his aureole of salvation.
The world expects in the head of a great section
of the church founded on the splendid self-sacri-
fice of Christ, some slight resemblance to his un-
selfish master. The follower of the meek and
Jowiy Naza-renc is not expected to roll about in a
gilded chariot like the soulless foreign-trade
potentate of York-street, and we must beg of
Urdmal Moran’s friends not to destroy our
little pallid adumbration of a grand ideal. Car-
dinal Moran is not living a life of extreme and
OHRiST-like poverty; he is only living poorly— for a
Cardinal. He goes to Rome in the luxurious mail-
boat sa oon, and by the same ship, no doubt, many
poor men and women will travel third or fourth-
class and eat their food off tin plates.
♦
In New South Wales the morality of piece of
literature or a work of art is for the purposes of
prosecution decided by an ordinary policeman
whose education did not probably begin until he
had joined the foorce ” and is perhaps only copious
enough to enable him to fill in a charge-sheet
against a “ drunk. ” And yet Policeman Xis the
critic of literature, the patron of belles lettres , the
arbiter litterarum, the censor librorum , in the
heritage of the sons of Pinchgut Island. What
an outrage on the reputations of men like Zola
and Daudet that their books are to be gauged
and appraised by Private Fogarty, who can just
write his own name correctly, and who has pro-
bably never read six books through in all his life.
Only the other day a bookseller was prosecuted
for selling an alleged indecent publication and the
evidence m support of the charge was ‘ ‘ solely
that of two police officers of a lower grade!”
Dubbo Dispatch, of 17th April, comment-
ing .upon the conduct of Mr. Justice Windeyer
during his recent visit to Dubbo on circuit, re-
marks
the interests of the public arc no doubt worthy of
grave consideration ; but their conservation is very dearly
paid for if there remains in the mind an impression that
justice has been imperfectly administered, and that men’s
liberties have been unduly jeopardised bv the indecent
hurrying of trials. Yet this is the feeling which will be left,
by the present sittings of the Court. It will be many a year
before that respect for the majesty of the law, as imperso-
nated in the person of a Supreme Court Judge, which has
been so rudely shaken by J udge Windever, will be re-estab-
lished. His Honor has disturbed the faith of a class of
men whose confidence it would even be prudent to secure
by deflecting in the direction of leniency. He has shown
them that it is possible for even a Supreme Court Judge
to be so carried away by his feelings—righteous, it may
be, but not the less unfortunate—as to lose that balance
which a long line of illustrious judges has maintained
under the most trying circumstances. The present sittings
of the Circuit Court will be long remembered in Dubbo.
They will, in our humble history become as traditional as
certain assizes which stand out so vividly in the great
historical tablets of the motherland. All that good
citizens can hope is that time will prove an anodyne "that
when future Circuit Courts come round we may be visited
b. v judges whose zeal for the public convenience may not
lead them into such extremes—whose anxiety to protect
society by convicting the guilty may not prompt them to
forget that society is already sufficiently protected by
having the services of an able Crown Prosecutor.”
“A Voice from the Bush."
Dear Bulletin', —As regards “A Voice from the Bush,’ (
I don’t think that we shall get much more light than was
thrown on the subject by Marcus Clarke in the Leader
(Melbourne) of October 30, 1880. Therein he says that
the “ Voice ” was published in the S.A. Register, of April
26, 1871, among Geoffrey Crabthorne’s “Echoes from the
Bush,” G. C. being Howard Clarke, who told half-a-dozen
personal friends that it was written by Mowbray Morris,
aide-de-camp to Sir James Ferguson. However, he (Mar
cus Clarke) goes on to say, but evidently erroneously,
that H. Clarke and M. Morris being both non est, no one
could state authoritatively what was the case, but that a
Mr. F. Johnson and a Lavington Glyde both positively
asserted that H. Clarke had told them that the versi s
were written by the “Cherub,” as Morris was affec-
tionately called. Shortly after this, Morris left South
Australia and went home, and the verses appeared in
“Temple Bar” under their present title; howbeit, one
Walter Tyas declared that Gordon gave the thing lo
Morris, and he to Clarke as his own. That assertion is,
of course, nullified by Sladen’s note to the effect that the
author had desired his name to be withheld, for I fetl
confident that Gordon would never leave comforts and
good company in the other world to hunt up Slushy
Sladen, and beg him to withhold his name from the
“ Voice”—although ’tis such rotten rubbish—and certes,
it is such stuff as The Bulletin’s pipe-lights are made of;
and maugre Mr. Adams’ commendation, which is colder
than Clarke’s, I cannot outrage my sense and critical
acumen, if I have any, by allowing to the thing any merits
whatsoever. Of oourse it is imprudent for me to lift my
feeble pipe against the two Antipodean authorities, who
are doubtless with regard to Poesy—
“ In luminous shades of her secret places
la depths where her marvels are manifest.”
But I shall be ineffably obliged to Mr. Adams, or any
other admirers of the “ Voice,” if he will give me either
the sense or the scansion of —
“ A sweet but if a short time back,
While now if one can call
This life, I almost doubt at times
If it’s worth the living at all.” !! !
After said admirer has pointed out how “the cat jumps,”
in that, he might as well go on to show an instance of
poetical felicity of phrasing in the whole thing—the whole
“rigmarole,” as Mr. Adams calls Elizabeth Barrett
Browning’s “ Cry of the Children!” The secret of
Clarke’s and of Adams’ praise is the fact that both are,
or were, town-trammelled new-chums. The thing is
popular, I admit, but I deny that it is more popular than
plenty of snufflebusting Sankey or Sharkey hymns, or
even the scraggiest specimen of nigger minstrelsy. Jts
very trashiness is the cause of its “take.” It appeals
to the shoddy sentiments of the average “soul,” which is
worried and wearied by anything above the tritest truism
and most customary imagery, in a way that true and
genuine poetry never could appeal. Besides, it’s in Gor-
don’s book and must be good, “ bless yer life ! ” No, it’s
just such rubbish as a “ cherub ” would write while aide-
de-camping, and reading Gordon’s Poems by the
“ Gov’ner’s” kitchen-fire, or basting the roast-beef for
tiie vice-regal dinner. Who ever heard of a “ Bill the
Bushman” outside of new-chumicalsnobdom?—especially
when hung on to a drover ! As for Mr. Adams’ assertion
that Gordon wrote “worse, much worse, verses,” my poor
tongue is all curled up and black and blistered like a
piece of scorched green-hide with asking “ Where, oh
where?” I would as soon believe that Sternhold and
Hopkins were noms-de-plume of Shakespeare and
Spenser, as 1 would that “ A Voice from the Bush ” was
an outcome of the soul that created “ From the Wreck ”
and “ The Rhyme of Joyous Guard !” which latter rhyme
alone is worth all the Antipodean poetry written, or to ba
written, in this century. Yours, &c., Svr>. W. Jephcott.
Yet another N. S. W. Town Clerk in Western
N.S.W. is suffering from a weakness in the spinal
column of his ledger.
You likee cabbagee belongin’ China man ?
Welly ni’! What you think ? Says Inspector
-Seymour
“All the Chinese-tenanted houses visited (in Sydney)
were very small, and with very small back yards, in
many cases fruit and vegetables in considerable quantities
were found stowed away in sleeping-dens, reeking- of
opium and dirt, while in other cases the stock was stacked
up beside'! he W.C. and over the floor of the yard, which
was wet with sewage. In one case a large collection of
vegetables was gently reclining against a heap of rags,
which had been gathered at night time from the dust-
boxes about the city. Who would not eat Celestial vege-
tables after this V
“ Gently reclining ”is good. But we don’t believe
it. _ Any self-respecting onion placed against a
Chinaman’s dirt-box would not “ recline gently,”
It would lean up hard and breathe stertorously.
What you thinkee ?
Gustavus Davis, sentenced to death at
Dubbo Circuit for assault with intent, is a Chinese
half-caste, born at Wellington (N.S.W.)


CORRESPONPENCE
“ Waihola ” (Yass): Suggestions good, but the
article wouldn’t arouse any excitement. When the news-
paper in question describes a mountainous district as a
“plain,” it comes nearer to fact than usual.... “H.M.”
(Braidwood): Wc suspect your sanity—“R.A.S.” (Wel-
lington) : Thanks. The babe which was discovered in a
box 14ft. by Bft. has already been dealt with.... “ Robert
ltowan” (137 King-street, W. Melb.) : Write to 100 King-
street, Sydney, for full particulars....“ Telescope ” (Tweed
River): Thanks “Wai Rimmerai”: Thanks. Will
consider “ A. 8.” : Held over. May yet print....
“Omeron”: Thanks....“ Zeph ” : The last verse on
l’arkes is good :
“ It pays them well his purse to swell,
Although the price seems tough;
iNo man on earth could name his worth,
JVo coin in small enough.”
..." Anser”: Glad to hear from you “ W.W.J.” : The
Emperor William was not Emperor of Germany ; he was
only Emperor in Germany. The late Kaiser got over the
difficulty 6f the “of” and “in” by simply styling him-
self “ Deutscher Kaiser,” “ German Emperor,” but even
that title is not officially acknowledged by the King of
Prussia’s fellow-sovereigns forming the German Federa-
tion “E.M.”: The British Government talks about
presenting the Nelson to Australia merely because it is
antiquated and useless, and the Admiralty doesn’ know
what else to do with it “E.M.A.”! He could not so
practise, because, under French law, a medical practi-
tioner is forbidden to dispense his own drugs ..... “ A Sub-
scriber” (Mount Morgan): Yes, Mr. Dailey accepted a
Privy Councillorship, which is a distinction taking prece-
dence of knighthood.... “ Moi-meme ” (Brisbane): Then, in
that case, you had better write direct to Bernard
Quariteh, bookseller, London, also to Sotheran and Co.,
booksellers, Strand, London.... “Mulcoa ”: Much obliged.
..“An Old Man”: Tub Bulletin reverences justice and
respects the forms of law. The forms of law are for the
protection of rich and poor alike ; it is not meet that a
rich man should have a formal trial and that the poorer
criminal should be merely lynched. Seeing the gross
and murderous iniquities which are daily perpetrated
w ithout remonstrance in N.S.W. and elsewhere in the name
of justice, The Bulletin will use every means in its power
to expose and castigate all who do not adhere alike to the
letter and to the spirit of those forms of law which cen-
turies of growing civilisation have placed as safeguards
around the lives and liberties of citizens committed to
take their trial in the courts. If we are to have formal
lawj let us have formal law ; if we are to have Lynch
law we are ready to toll the bell and pull the rope. But we
are not going to ring the vigilance-bell for any judge who
ever tricked himselfjout in ermine since the world began..
“ VV.D.” (Whitton): If Garrett’s 18th clause is passed
into law the selectors who take up land under conditional
leases may confidently expect to have a bad time “A
Voter at Last Queensland General Election”: .M ‘II wraith
is no worse than Griffith in regard to the land question ;
but Tiie Bulletin regards MTlwraith as the champion of
Australian Nationalism while Griffith is a thorough-going
convicted Imperialist. The cause of United Austra-
lia looms a deal vaster than any question of colonial ad-
ministration ....“ AAV.” : The parody of the Englished
lloratian ode is neat but too involved in construction for
the comprehension of the average reader. Natheless, we will
print.. “A.H.8.”: Letter posted. “Camoenoe”: Thepoemis
too long, the verses are disjointed and unmetrical, and the
sentiment just about as robust as a moonbeam.... “ Hir-
bra) ” (Wattle Tree Flat) : Very unequal ;, really good
verses mixed up with awful nursery rhyme....“ Hue” :
I low long wilt thou continue to persecute us “ C.C.”:
Right! Protection would not impose any exclusive taxa-
tion on any separate class. The producer is also a con-
sumer “Effie May Dent”: Very sweet and musical,
but just a trifle gushy.... “ Duncan Love ”: By-and-bye.
“ Guppy ”: Now what are you giving u 5?.... “ Gum
Leaf”: Have not quite read'your last letter yet....
“Oyster Johnnie”: Your story of 20 sovereigns
'is capitally told “Ben Demmy”: Received
“J. Mayall ”: Many thanks.. .. “ Enquirer ” : Cannot tell
you at once ; will look the matter up.... “M. M'Cormack:”
(Tweed River): Received....“ Subscriber”: He was
reared on “ Higher Law,” but that was before he landed
at Botany 8ay....“ Anti-Rows” (Gertrude-street, Fitz-
roy): Quite right, too; at Dresden, in Germany, piano-
playing is forbidden after half-past 10 at night. The
Germans want all their men for fighting, and they can’t
light if they aren’t allowed to sleep... .“Demi the
Waler ”: Your autograph looks like bad language ; will
read.... “ R. Murchison ” : Thanks for hint....“ Thomas
Buffirey ” (Mount Arrowsmith): (1) The Australian Star
is the only Protectionist daily paper in Si dney ; address,
King-street. (2) Thos. Walker, of the N.S.W. Parliament,
is not a Bradlaugh, and, not having heard otherwise, we
presume he took the oath. (3) Bradlaugh did take the
oath. (4) He supported Gladstone’s Bill “J.P.8.”:
In a future issue, perhaps “True Bill”: Received....
‘G. Inn.es ”: Not important enough to notice
“Enigma”: Next week, mayhap....“H. Mayne”: No
immediate means of obtaining the information you re-
quire. ...“ Cornstalk” : You need not be astonished at
the meagreness of the report of the last meeting of the
Australian Natives’ Association in the daily Press. It is
not press policy to give prominence to a battle-cry which
would drown the whoopings of Parkesianism, sectarianism,
Cobdenism, and Orangeism.... “ A.F. ” : Good. Handed
.to artist....“ James M.” : Good story “ I). K. Wat-
son (Maryborough, Q.): Thanks. The first of the poems
is not likely to add|anything to Gordon’s reputation ; the
•“ Inter Flmnina Nota ” is, on the contrary, a very good
specimen of poetical workmanship “Zeph”: Will
read “Bathurst Admirer”: Your “facts” are too
odoriferous for publication....“ Oyster Johnnie”: Re-
ceived. ...“ A Subscriber” (Wollongong): Should like
to oblige you, but afraid interest in the subject is too
local Australian Native” (Charters Towers): The
Sydney branch of the A.N.A seems inclined to make con-
cessions. ...“ John Alexander” (S. Brisbane): Enclosed
“ eompo,” mislaid.....“ Broken Hillite ” : Application
would be understood by only those locally interested....
“Queensland Liberal”: We have already explained
that the reason why we support MTlwraith is that
he is a Republican and works for Australia,
and not, like Griffith, for Great Britain... . “Mae-
guire” (Sty Hills): For further consideration.. .
“Northa” (Newcastle): Will read and let you know...,
“Subscriber” (Rookwood): Say “ Yours, etc.,” it’s merely
a matter of form anyhow and purely optional
“T. Emmerson ” (Mitchell, Q.): Too h0t.... “ Vraiment ” :
Your pars, are not up to par yet. Try again 1..,.
“ A.L.C.”: The metre is rather crooked, and the rhymes
are not much above zero.... “ O-Reginal-d ” (Eaglehawk):
The pun was execrable.... “H. R. Green ” (Orange): The
Bulletin was first issued in February, 1880 “ J.. 8.
Fitzgerald”: Will enquire into the matter....“ Hems-
ley ” (North Melbourne): We don’t remember having seen
the paper to which you allude.... “ A.M.J.” : (1) Cannot
tell you. (2) Reputedly the best claim on Croydon, so
far, is the Caledonia, which lately crushed 28540 z. from
123 tons of stone. The reef is oft. wide.. .. “S. Lyon ”:
Better appeal to Piggy Parkes “ New Chum " (Mary-
borough. Q.): If the Australian Governments take no
steps to restrict Chinese immigration the people are jus-
tified in taking the matter up “J. P. Meagher”
(Wagga Wagga): Have not yet perused article “J.
Holland ” (Cooktown, Q.): Will examine your grievance.
“ Exile ” : Received “ Sleepy Hollow ” (Singleton):
Read the death of the clown in'“ Pickwick Papers.”.. “J. S.
Bryant” (Dubbo): Point rather strained.. “ Scald ” (Bairns-
dale, Vic.): Verses are very good “ Friend of the
Poets”: Have not seen the poem you praise so highly.
...“ D.A.T’,”: Will look your MSS. up and return
“ Michael Hayes ” : Thanks “ C. Ley ward ”(Melb.) :
The “ Monarchical Tie ” is contained in a volume by Max
Nordau entitled “ Conventional Lies of our Civilisation.”
History of Botany Bay.
The assignment of women-convicts was a
responsible task, and one that taxed all the
delicacy and tact of the officials of those
days. The women were of many classes—
from the harridan to the lady-pickpocket.
Anyone who has read anything of the
hideous state of things that obtained in
Newgate when Mrs. Elizabeth Fry began
her prison-work will not require to be told
anything here about these ladies’ apprentice-
ship for Botany Bay. The voyage out was a
dismal orgie, of which the less said the
better. “Every convict ship,” says one
writer, ‘ ‘ carries out a herd of females of all
ages, and of every gradation in vice, from
the veriest trull to the fine madam who dis-
played her attractions in the theatres. All
who can carry with them the whole para-
phernalia of the toilette, with trunks and
boxes stuffed with every kind of female
dress and decoration they can come at.”
These women had unlimited freedom of in-
tercourse among themselves in the prison-
room, and on a certain portion of the deck
at a fixed part of the day, and this com-
pleted the corruption of the younger among
them. The discipline of the female convicts
was entrusted to the surgeon, and many
stories are told about the lady-favourites of
the surgeons, and their conduct towards the
rest of their fellow-convicts.
» * * *
“ The madams on hoard,” wrote a sarcas-
tic person, “occupy the few days which
elapse before their landing in preparing to
produce the most dazzling effect at their
descent upon the Australian shore. With
rich silk dresses —bonnets a la mode —ear
pendants three inches long—gorgeous shawls
and splendid veils —silk stockings, kid gloves,
and parasols in hand, dispensing sweet odours
from their profusely perfumed forms they
disembark, and,” adds this poetically imagi-
native observer, “arc assigned as servants,
and distributed to the expectant settlers.”
Then we get descriptions of the triumphant
passage of these syrens —of the offers of
marriage made them loudly from the way-
sides, and the besieging of ardent swains
at their new homes. Sometimes the settler
wanted only a servant and received a sul-
tana ; and one writer describes how a fair
creature so assigned him swept down on the
devoted homestead with a cargo of attar of
roses and botanical cream, Macassar oil and
cosmetics and scented soaps, and a profusion
of the delicate trifles that adorn a lady’s
toilette-table ; and even then the flighty
thing wept for an exclusive dressing-room of
her own.
Of the other-class of women-convicts it is
said that their language, manners, and con-
duct were infinitely "too dreadful for pub-
lished description. “Their language, dis-
gusting even when heard by profligate men,
would pollute the eyes cast upon it in
writing. Their open and shameless vices
must not be told. Their fierce and untame-
able audacity would not be, believed.
Were the veil raised, and the appalling spec-
tacle exhibited as it really is, the picture
would be too horrid for affrighted humanity
to look upon.” A good deal might be said
on this subject, but we prefer to leave
these extracts to speak for themselves in
this unsavoury connection. At the same time
it may be added that if the writer oh Aus-
tralian subjects is to be squeamish on those
matters there would be no such thing as
Australian history at all. Most of our early
story is made up that way.
* * *
When the Australian colonist of to-day,
who does not belong to the past of Australian
history and has no sympathy with it, looks
back to see what the coming nation owes to
the mother-country, the disembarking of the
cargo of one of these convict-women ships will
afford one crushing answer. The women
who were sent out here with the full and
avowed intention of making them the mothers
of the future Australian men and women
were such demireps and harridans as our
eye-witnesses extracts have described.
When it shall become necessary, by-and-
bye, to tell Imperial officialdom that its day
j.n Australia is over, those who are called on
to say as much will have to remember this
fact, and nerve themselves to meet the sneer
that will remind them of what the mother
country kindly decided in their regard.
The female convicts were assigned within
eight or ten days after their landing, and
when the applicants were all supplied the
remainder were sent to the Women’s Fac-
tory, at Parramatta. That den of iniquity
contained at times many hundreds of women,
of all classes ; from the rustic girl to the
swell mobsman’s “lady.” They were divided
into three sections. The first was made
up of those who had never been as-
signed. or who, having been, sent out to
service, had been returned to the Factory
without any recorded complaint against
them. The third class contained those who
had been returned from service for insubor-
dination, or otherwise giving trouble, and
female convicts who had-been sentenced for
offences committed in the colony to terms
not long enough for transportation. The
second class was filled by those who had
completed their term of sentence.
• • *
For the demirep class of convict women
the factory was rather a • pleasant asylum
than otherwise. “ The females pass their
time in sufficient merriment, we are told,
“ relating to each other their former his-
tories, their amours and debaucheries, the
thefts in which they have been concerned,
and the crimes for which they respectively
received sentence of transportation.” So
much was this recognised that it was said to
be a common thing for female convicts of
this class to demand of their mistresses to
send them there, and “ flatly and with fear-
ful oaths to disobey their orders for the pur-
pose of securing the accomplishment of their
wish.” But it was the women of the other
class—the poor creatures who, for some
petty offence had been torn away from their
homes as hundreds were in those days, and
sent to herd with felons at Botany Bay, that
felt the full horror of this dreadful abode,
Thc chaplain Marsden—he was familiarly
known as “ Old Flog’em ” by these Factory
women—prescribed a flogging for all
breaches of discipline, and the lash was
• always going in some part of the establish-
na ent or other, so that the chaplain’s nick-
name was suggested by his favourite phrase,
• • •
The Factory waa also a kind of matrimo-
.rial bureau. W the convict could obtain
his master’seonsent, he repaired to the Factory
to select a wife. Then the unmarried belles
were drawn up in line before this modern
Paris of Botany Bay, whose duty it was to
award the prize for which the goddesses dis-
puted of old, Many were the languishing
graces and captivating arts used to influence
the hesitating swain, and some future poet or
painter of Botany Bay will doubtless arise to
do tardy justice to these novel conditions of
love’s young dream. When Paris made
his selection and his critical eye was
satisfied, lie beckoned with his finger
to the blushing damsel, capriciously coy, on
wliom he had fixed his young affections,
They talked it over together, and the other
ladies looked on. Sometimes the fair one
was difficult, and the terms could not be
arranged. She was sent back to her place
in the. ranks of female loveliness, and
another selection made'without a moment’s
ENGAGING A SERVANT IN THE GOOD OLD DAYS.”
hesitation. There is no record of any swain
having been rendered desperate by this out-
rage to his blighted affections.
In some cases when free settlers made
their selection in this way, it was found after
the honeymoon that the dispositions of the
twain were incompatible. Then the dis-
carded wife was promptly “turned in to
the Factory, and a new selection made.
There was an easy facility about this method
of divorce that recommended itself.
The ill-treatment of the convict women
among the settlers was so general that most
of them preferred to be in the Factory to
being sent out to service. Servitude under
one °master for two years entitled these
women to a ticket-of-leave, but during that
time they were very often the creatures of
the irresponsible caprice of their mistresses
and only a woman with power over another
can really exhaust the art of cruelty in all its
ramifications and possibilities. Of the five
or six hundred women with which the Fac-
tory was always peopled, from one to two
hundred were always mothers of illegitimate
children.
* • *
The distance from Sydney to Parramatta
by water is about 14 miles. A omen were
conveyed there in boats under the escort of
a guard of soldiers. Judge Therry, in his
Reminiscences, gives an account of these
water-picnics. He describes the soldiers as
taking provisions and rum with them in their
boats -provisioning them as if for a
lengthened cruise. As soon as they got
away from the city a scene of drunken
revelry commenced. It took the soldiers
and their convoys'sometimes seven days to
perform that journey of 14 miles. The
reader may consult the Keminiscences of
the learned Judge for further information on
this and offier kindred subjects.
* *
Another feature about the assignment of
convict servants was that men were' often
assioried to their wives, and wealthy trnns-
portees to their friends. When a man was
convicted in London or elsewhere, he was
sent to Botany Bay as a convict while his
wife or any woman who passed as such-
forged certificates were always common in
Botany Bay—followed him in the first ship
with the booty. She got her husband
assigned to her. Sometimes the arrange-
ment worked well, and sometimes not.©But
this novel matrimonial device had certain
advantages. For it often happened that
when the husband forgot his changed
position—that he was a convict assigned
to his wife, in short —these matter-of-
fact women were careful to impress the
fact on their affectionate spouses. This
produced words and sometimes a quar-
rel. But the women were quite equal to
the conflict. They just handed their quon-
dam lords and masters over to the nearest
constable, who brought them before a magis-
trate. That excellent man promptly sen-
tenced them to be flogged as convicts who had
shown themselves insubordinate in -their
assigned service, and so the balance of mari-
tal power was in some measure equalised.
These playful proceedings put the domestic
question in quite a novel and captivating
light.
• • *
After what has been said it is almost un-
necessary to add that the morality of the
town of Sydney itself was at a hopelessly
low ebb. The practice of concubinage was
common up to the time of Governor Bourke,
and a general profligacy had gangrened the
whole of the community. The immoral
customs of the town were so flagrant and so
notorious that no one ever thought of cen
suring another unless it was for falling
behindhand in these brutalities of wanton
ness that had no redeeming feature to
soften the repulsiveness of their vice.
People have been brutal and coarse be
fore, but most that have distinguished
themselves in that way knew how to throw
a glamour of some kind or another over
their excesses. The villa of Lucid]us saw
strange sights, ancl azure Capri has mir-
rored other scenes besides those of cloud
and sky in its day. The story of such
places has been told in more than one way,
but most of those who have told of them
have had something else to relate besides
mere records of salaciousness. But in Sydney
everything was bestial. There was no public
redeeming trait. Perhaps the most repul-
sive picture ever limned by the historian is
that cruelly graphic description of Sydney
of 40 years ago that stands on record in the
second volume of Justin McCarthy's “His-
tory of Our Own Time.”
The share list of the Hero Freehold Silver
and Gold Mining Company Limited, (Queensland)
was definitely closed on the 9th ultimo. Applica-
tions were sent in for 71,150 shares, against only
50,000 available, and a pro rata distribution of 66|
per (sait. was made by the directors. Applications
for upwards of 40,000 shares came in too late and
were thrown out. The secretary, Mr. J. J. Slade,
advises that work has been commenced on the
mine.
Dr. Hearn, of Melbourne Cniversify, who
died the other morning, was 62 years old. He
was the ablest economist and historical philosopher
we have ever had in Australia. His “ Aryan
Household,” “ Plutologv : the theory of efforts to
satisfy human wants, ’ and the ‘’Structure and
Development of the Government of England,'
are monuments to the memory of their author
more enduring than marble. Some of his books
have been selected by University authorities out-
side Australia as students’ texts, and Dr. liearn
Was held in the highest esteem in the learned
societies of Europe. His death, however, has
made little stir in Australia. • v _
The Eight Hours’ procession in Melbourne
was, this year, enlivened by one or two strokes of
humour. The Typographical Society s lorry bore
black “devils” in fancy costume, who printed
bills (which genuine “devils ” don't do) en route,
and the coopers displayed a funny little automaton
working a miniature churn. But public enthu-
siasm was concentrated on the brewers' men. who
conveyed real barrels, containing bona fide beer,
to the scene of action. It was noticeable that
cheers for the Governor came mainly from the
(jailors, in whom a spirit of “ loyalty is carefully
inculcated by superior officers and worth-eaten
tradition.


FRECKLES
eon be effectually eradicated by
theuse of Clements’ Frecklebane.
Frecklebane is the only reliable cure. Perfectly harmless.
Post free from the inventor, F. M. Clements’, 141 King
Street, Newtown, N.S.W., for 2e. lOd. N.S.W. stamps or
P. 0.0. Sold by Washington Soul and all chemists,
i Seware of worthless imitations
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.— " Princess Ida.” p. 15
Her Majesty’s Theatre.—" Faust ” „
Criterion Theatre.—“ Bachelors ”
Royal Standard Theatre.—Burlesque Company... „
Alhambra Mitsio Hall.—Minstrelsy „
Robert Buchanan’s new comedy, which
figures at Sydney Criterion under the name
of “Bachelors,” is brighter by a good
deal than the ordinary run of comedies.
The new production is a tale of three gentle-
men who are bound under a case of dry
champagne never to depart from the tracks of
single blessedness. The eldest and most cantan-
kerous of the three is unavoidably the uncle of a
gaudy youth newly returned from abroad, and lie
promises to introduce this gay dog to the
brotherhood as soon as lie can shake off a widow
to whom he is engaged. Between them, they
shake off the widow so effectually that the
youth rounds on his mother's brother, and
•calls him a wicked old hyaena dragged
out of the depths of infamy, and offers
in a frenzy to shed the old man’s ear in single
•combat, and the uncle falls back in his chair and de-
clares that the ways of mankind are as unfathom-
able as a Chinese washerman s receipt. Meanwhile
the old man has temporarily lifted his eye off the
•other bachelors, and in his absence the two of
them have got engaged to one girl, and three girls
have got engaged to one of them—a gentleman
•who looks as innocent and unobtrusive as cole
victuals, and an elderly girl is skirmishing rounc
(unattached. This elderly girl appears in the per-
son of Miss E. Romer, and is a good-looking anc
artful creature and a marvel of deep diplomacy.
These circumstances arouse all the available
Ananias in the old man, and the way he acts on
the bank of the Thames is absolutely degrading.
'The man with the three girls moans - abjectly and
•wishes that he were in Turkey so that he could
•marry them all, or dead so that he couldn’t marry
.any of them ; the two girls whom he doesn’t care
.about hang on to him, and the only girl he ever
loved abandons him ; the two men who are in
llove with the two girls whom he can’t get rid of
wish to bounce a brick off his head, and he asks
[them piteously why they don’t take the girls and
ihis blessing also and be done with it; and the ole
man dances ponderously amid the ruins of their
happiness and says he rather likes it. Then he
goes away and gets engaged himself, which is a
[terrible piece of treachery.
• * •
A jot of the dialogue in “Bachelors” is
somewhat old, but many of the situations are
[Strikingly novel and very effective. The inimitable
Titberadge distinguishes himself as the gentleman
•who is engaged to three girls at once, and meets
his troubles with the.ipeek aspect of a dray-load ot
baa-lambs, M,r. H. R. Harwood has been speci-
ally engaged for the part, of the fierce and bounce-
Ablc old man who runs the establishment, anil
ayith a noble appreciation .of the fitness of things
She makes himself up as like Judge Blank as
possible. His roar heightens the resemblance, and
the smothered ferocity of his action completes the
,'C‘haraeter. Cpc.il Ward has not quite shaken off
•the influence of Tom Jones, and throws himself
.about rather loosely at times; J)ion, jun., makes
;i* moderate success of Potts, and Mrs. Rpbert
Brough a big, overgrown triumph as Mrs. Lynn
Aoseby. Some other features of the case may
possibly suggest themselves in the course of neyt
•vwv?k.
A
W *7y* *7V* 'TV
King’s Congress of Specialists, who—yye
imention this merely in passing—are not
• quite so special .as they might be, maintain their
ground at Sydney Academy. This week the
Professor performs a striking trick by dropping a
•wooden ball on his corn in the first act. He has
• dropped the same ball on the .same corn for many
■years in every part pf the habitable globe and in
rthe presence of the crowned heads of Europe and
• other potentates, and in all his lengthy experience
he has never missed foe corn once. The corn is
.-still in good working order and ready to be
. dropped upon at the shortest notice. The great
•attraction of the evening, however, .is the,lady
•who is and left ,in the pir pn
itop of a clpthe f S'prop. The Professor first
tthrows a magic influence at her heap and then lie
(fools about in, a manner tlia,t ,is absolutely sicken-
iitig in ,its .stupidity, tying wings on her Back,
(hanging dish-cloths over her, and otHprwifo fixing
[her up, and-shoving her fppt into, new' positions in
• order to who w foa,t,stie is so unconscious that she
• doesn’t know -..even that slie h,ns foot. This
• effect, he kindly explains, may be produced in
1 private by any amateur, foe moil ns qperariefi
• being simply to place one’s grandmother on a
•chair and mesmerise foqr foil she .is too tired to
,-stand, and then take the chair away and hear the
• deceived old woman drop. When the mesmeric
sseance is over the Human Serpent puts his head on
(the floor and runs after it with his legs, and then
t there is some more seance, a,nd Mademoiselle
lEranzini does some wonderful tricks of bicycle-
s-ihip, and the Human Serpent performs agai n
Vidfo enchanted hoops and other articles of furni-
ture, .and the show concludes as before with the
thing with the long name. It does not .strain foe
intellect in any way to look at King’s Congress of
Specialists, and the >gh the excitement rises to a
high pitch, it is a perfectly harmless emotion, as
can be readily proved py anyone who cares to
drop a ballon his own .corji ~ip- the ’sanctity of
private life.
*# * *
The “Merchant of Venice” .y,ill foe pro-
duced on Thursday night at Sydney Gaiety, and
on Friday Mr. and Miss Dampier will make their
final appearance in a hash of tragedy, farce, and
things in general. Messrs. Rainford, Barry, and
Herbert ensue on Saturday with the Australian
Dramatic Company, an association which con-
sists almost entirely of Australian natives,
and whose aim it is to play Australian
native dramas in an Australian native theatre,
and generally to be as Australian native as they
can all round. The season commences with
“ Foiled,” a drama which, according to the largo
yellow bill of the company, is the work of the
iate Walter Cooper. The cast includes Messrs.
,1. H. Rainford and James Hasker, Miss Marion
Willis, and several other artistes. Among the
•■scenery is a saw-mill ’in complete working order,
’.with a full head of steam —an item which m itself
•should ensure success. Few things appeal so
strongly to the finer feelings of the Australian
native as a saw-mill in complete working order
with a full head of steam. The men of colder
climes whose sluggish blood stagnates in their
veins may be appealed to by the simple pathos of
a tank of rain-water, but the fiery sons of the
South require a stronger mental stimulant and
nothing short of a saw-mill in complete working
order with a full head of steam can divert their
minds from the dull, sordid environment of every-
day life, and arouse those images of poetic fancy
which linger in the melancholy music of the Aus-
tralian bush, but which are crushed out'by the soul-
less routine of existence in great cities, where
man standing apart from nature ceases to
commune with the spirits of the mighty past.
As a moral agent —as a potent lever to lift mor-
tality to a higher sphere of thought—as a means
of exciting noble aspirations and yearnings after
all that is good and great, there are few things
that can compare with a saw-mill in complete
working order with a full head of steam.
'A' %
Remenyi, Dan ()’Connor\s friend, was
never drowned in the Hooghly, or off the
coast of Madagascar, or anywhere else. He
wanted to be, but something intervened and the
sharks missed a musical matinee. The entertain-
ment didn’t come off, and Remenyi is hurtling
round somewhere in South Africa with his clean
shave and his velvet tunic and the silver bracelet
that some celebrated Queen of Song gave him be-
cause he cried for it one day when he was lonely.
No one will be more concerned to learn that
Remenyi has not gone where the good fiddler
goes_ than the. protege of Demosthenes and
Deniehy. Dan, in his love for poet’s bones, worked
on the feelings of the little Hungarian till he
enthused and wanted to do something for Kendall.
At the. darksome instigation of Cicero’s nephew
he gave a recital in the Lecture Hall of the Sydney
University, and raised no end of coin for a monu-
ment to hoist above the poet’s wraith. He com-
posed a Dirge for Kendall, and went away fully
persuaded that the world had given birth only to
three great men, viz., Remenyi, Kendall,
and Dan Cicero Wentworth O’Connor. Be-
fore he shunted to be drowned in the
Hooghly, or off the coast of Madagascar,
or wherever it was that he wanted to be
drowned at and couldn’t manage it, he
made said Dan Cicero Wentworth O’Connor pro-
mise with a fatuous appeal to the saints
that a “leedle, very leedle vile-een ” should
be carven on the monument—and Dan promised.
MISS NELLIE STEWART.
Remenyi wanted to link his fiddle with the
“Harp of Australia,” a sort of melange
of music and song, and the faithless Dan
has gone back on him.
Jfr # # #
A fresh crop of plays sprung up in Mel-
bourne last. Saturday night, some of the crop
being healthy and the rest bearing strong external
evidence of an early blight. Mr. Charles
Warner’s votaries 'filled the Princess with the
enthusiasm which is now lavished upon that gush-
ing Child of stage Nature'whatever character he
happens to be putting" through. On this occasion
he played "Claude Melnotte in “The Lady of
‘Lyons’, ’ and his one great, old, familiar weakness
was painfully in evidence. In a word, Mr.
Warner brought out'the emotional side of tawdry
Claude with such a sni veiling, and a sobbing, and
a-catelling of his breath a's is never Heard in real
life outside of a ladies’ seminary suffering from
hysterics. The manliness of Mr. Warner's
steam-power style is made to appear spurious by
his strange pro]tensity for melting into tears. J t
has discounted the merit of his performances in
plays innumerable, though suitirig admirably his
strongest part—Coupeau. Live men snivel only
when they are mad or drunk, and as the Princess
audience applauded Claude Melnotte’s tears when
he brought a high-born bride to his mother’s three-
roomed cottage, they evidently concluded that
Claude had got into a maudlin state at the nuptial
feast. Miss Isabel Morris played the name part
with real power, and the company is smart all
round. Next Saturday the long talked of “ Bar-
rister ” makes a start.
* * *
Red-hot blood and cold pallid misery arc
filling most of the other bills. The Alexandra
assumed quite a festive appearance at inereased
prices, when Miss Ada Ward debuted in a five-
act monstrosity called “Left to Perish,” but fes-
tivity wore off as the evening advanced and ter-
minated in blank despair somewhere about mid-
night. A much worse play than “ Left to Perish ”
was never rolled up into a ball of manuscript and
chucked at an ambitious author when he called to
ask if it would be accepted. In the first act a
flash of lightning struck Ada Ward blind, and in
the last act another flash struck her all right
apm. During her long period of total darkness
that unfortunate lady was at the mercy of a
beetle-browed villain, who kept grabbing her
by the arm and pouring fortli volumes of
reiterated tommy-rot. Miss Ward bore
up as well as she could, and wore several
letcrung costumes in honour of this melan-
choly occasion, but no earthly power could save
such a show from swift damnation. A military
masher, played by an apparent novice at his
business, excited some mild tittering, yet, never-
theless, he showed promise of becoming a gen-
tlemanly actor. “ The Chain of Guilt ” dragged
its crimey length across the Opera House stage
without any startling results worth mentioning.
Ihe V mans pack up their dramatic horrors and
clear in a fortnight, and effective scenery will
likely enough keep this latest trouble from disap-
pearing before Amy Sherwin’s company take over
the house.
*# # #
“ Mankind,” with the best Bland Holt
polish on it, commenced to hum at'the Royal with
no uncertain sound. There are many weird pecu-
liar specimens of mankind in this drama, and they
don't generally carry on with a strict regard to
the usages of a narrow-minded society, but they
are gifted with the power of keeping an audience
glued to their seats until there’s nothing more to
shudder at. In the matter of scenery and stage-
management, “Mankind” is really a first-class
spectacle, and it offers occasional openings for
y ivid gleams of ghastliness. G. W. Anson came
out in quite his best form as a centenarian money-
lender, while his ancient partner in crime, B. X.
Jones, made a grand old corpse when
Anson choked him with a pocket-handker-
chief. Bland Holt rollicked through a con-
genial part, and the ladies shall receive the
honour due to them at some future time. Miss
Essie Jenyns took a two-nights’benefit at the
Bijou amid demonstrations of popular admiration
for her youth, beauty, and success. A frail-loolc-
ing laurel wreath in silver—provided by the
management or some other unknown admirer—
was placed upon her brow and a small barbers
pole, with flag attached, was stuck in her
trembling grasp by Mr. Holloway. Bou-
quets abounded on the scene and
floral tributes of strange design were also plentiful
during the 'benefit. Miss Jenyns deserved them
all. She lias carried her relatives and friends
through a prosperous season by aid of a magnet-
ism which is better than genius. Essie is an un-
conscious mesmerist, and her finest subjects are
ladies moving in the best dress circles.
## * *
Mr. W. Holloway ’ kept up Shakespeare’s
birthday by a reception on the stage of Melbourne
Bijou. That rugged tragedian made a species of
speech, and the company drank to the “Glorious
and Undying Memory of Shakespeare,” linked
with the name of Bill Holloway. The Divine
Essie was also toasted and buttered amid wild
enthusiasm, after which the meeting dispersed in
good order.
*7v* '/V* 'A' *7\*
A deputation from the N.S.W. Zoological
Society asked the Government to grant assistance
to enable them to tide over their financial diffi-
culties. Premier Parkes was deeply touched at
the impending insolvency of his brother animals,
and having been “ often there ” himself promised
to consider the matter.
1 A'- 4L.
W W W "A*
“Dorothy,” the joint production of Messrs.
Cellier and Stephenson, will commence at Sydney
Royal next Saturday, vice “Princess Ida,” that
badly-broken-up lady retiring to another sphere of
usefulness. There will also be a complete change in
the personnel of the company. Mr. C. H. Leumane
makes his first appearance in Sydneyin “Dorothy,”
along with him Billy Elton, Knight Aston,
Ida Osborne, and the charming Fanny Lid-
diard appear on the horizon ; and, lastly,
comes a greater and lovelier creature than
them all m the shape of Nellie Stewart—
may her shadow never grow less and may her
trunk never again be embezzled! Seats at the
Royal are already at a premium. “Faust” is
now in his fifth week at Her Majesty’s and boom-
ing. Miss Lucy Pinkstone, the well-known elo-
cutionist, has now taken to the stage, and plays
the part of Rachel at the beautiful George’s em-
porium with considerable success. “ Venus and
Adonis ” holds up with unaccountable vigour at
the Royal Standard, Mr. D’Arcy Stanfield as
Mercury, a god in blue knickerbockers, is partly
responsible for this, and he is energetically sup-
ported by a number of the things which we see
when we are out without our gun. The Fisk
Jubilee lingers still trill their high, convulsive
Is flat at the Opera House, and the Alhambra
Minstrels are playing to crowded houses. All
these things, however, are vanity.
** * *
ihe story about pretty Miss Fortesciie,
Gumboil’s rejected, haying fallen down a lift and
been taken to the hospital proves to be wrong in
two particulars. She didn’t fall down any lift
and she wasn’t taken to the hospital. Otherwise
the story was correct. It is reported that the
I airfaxes, of the S.M. Herald, are going to pur
chase Sydney Criterion and the attached hotel.
When the S.M. Herald comes down to owning r
gati and a pul), chaos can’t be far distant
Osmond Tearle and his wife (formerly united u
our old friend Levy, the cornet-blower) are about
to tour the English provinces in Shakespeare
learle has long been leading man at Wallack's
iheatre, New York, where we saw him play
Silver King” considerably below Titheradge’s
torm. Mr. Fergus Hume, the Hansom Cal
Mystery man, is reported to be working night anf
day on a play for Carrie Swain. Thus is I. Reginald
Rlank once more left. Dion Boucicault, sen.,
is reported to be barn storming in Massachusetts
At the theatrical costumier’s. Enter coryphee
I want three pairs of tights, sir—one pair foi
me, one pair for mother, and one pair for grand
mother. Me all belong to the same ballet.” Al;
Brisbane the Majeronis have been playing to good
houses, but this result was partly owing to the
tact that there was a distribution of prizes each
niMit. What kind of a falling off is this ? “ The
silver Ling ” is to be the next production at tin
Opera House, Brisbane, with George Leitch as
• faikes and George Ireland as the Silver King
Gracie Plaisted is en route for America. .1 immj
South and Barry O’Neil are going to the Fai
North in search of another alligator. Grahan
Berry has written to Gillies stating that Cowar
the composer, who is to have charge of the music
at the Melbourne Exhibition, has “ favourably
impressed ” him. Great Scott! Fancy the Soutl
xarra retail grocer being the final court of
appeal on a question of musical talent
Seven chorus girls in tights at the Avenue
Iheatre clubbed together and sent a loyal tele-
gram to Wales on his silver wedding. Tummy
wired back thanking them for their congratula-
Gons, and they sent the answer to the Sportino
Times. The whole seven were near being dis-
missed by a debased and ghastly management foi
this act, but they got off with an awful blowing
up. The management called it “ cheek,” as if
ciioras girl in tights hasn’t a right to be
loyal as well as anybody else. An amatem
dramatic company which has been playing “ Les
Cloches de Corneville ” at Dunedin (N.Z.) has
been sued before a prosiac magistrate, and doomed
to pay 10s, damages because a copy of the score
which they had borrowed was returned in a dog-
eared condition. Thus do the miserable cares of
sordid earth chain down the soul of the apprentice
barn-stormer.
When the late Judge Fellows was at the
Bar, in the early Fifties, he was able to employ a
full-fledged, properly■■raZZed barrister as a clerk.
Business was brisk in those golden times, and
Fellows was looked upon with envy by fellows less
prosperous. Many thought the immense business
done by the eminent counsel was solely due to his
undoubted talents. The secret, however, oozed out
one day when it was found that Mr. Fellows’
barrister-clerk kept a couple of hogsheads of
M ‘Cracken’s best colonial ale on tap for the benefit
of thirsty clients and bibulous attorneys’ clerks.
When Fellows made the discovery, the unprofes-
sional practice was stopped, but the business went
on all the same, as he had made a name which
could not be wiped out.
Surgeon W. H. Campbell, who died the
other day, was one of the oldest identities of the
Southern metropolis. He settled in Melbourne
in the forties, and lived for the last thirty years of
his career in a dusty and neglected-looking man-
sion in Russell-street. Every Christmas, fcr the
last quarter of a century, he used to appeal
through the Press to all smokers for donations of
tobacco for the poor old fellows in the Immigrants’
Home. The weed always rolled in in rolls, and
the old men at the Home used, narcotically any-
how —to spend a happy Christmas, and bless the
genial doctor. Now poor Campbell is gone home,
an immigrant to another land. He was remark-
able for his clean-shaved, highly-purple counten-
ance, which used to intensify to an alarming
degree when he heard a good joke and chuckled
violently.
Hapi Moko, an old Maori chief, has just
died. In 1836, whilst on a whaling cruise on the N.Z.
coast, on board a Riverton whaler, Hapi took ill
and, to all appearance, died, and was duly sewed
up in canvas, ready for burial at sea. In those
days the whalers took their wives on board, and
they, as usual, were far more affected by the death
than their lords and masters, and protested
against his burial at sea, preferring that the body
be kept for a few days longer till they reached
terra firma. The vessel put into Riverton, and
the body being taken on deck to be put in the
boat for removal ashore, was in process of being
handed over the rail, still clothed in the canvas
bag, with the weight at the feet, when, lo and
behold ! Hapi Moko began to stretch himself.
This naturally produced extreme excitement,
especially among the females, and it was a con-
siderable time before anyone had the presence of
mind to undo the package. Hapi Moko was
taken ashore, and lived, only to die fifty-two
years later like an ordinary mortal.
“Princess Midas” is the title bestowed
on Miss Alice Cornwell by the gallant old London
dogs under whose patronage that fair lady
floated the Midas Gold Mining Company. Before
Miss Alice became of royal lineage she assisted
her husband, the poet Whiteman, in running a
modest pub. on the site of the present City of Mel-
bourne Bank. YVhich reminds us that tempu's
fugit. John Wliiteman—blacksmith, bard, and
M.L.A.—was quite old enough to marry when he
persuaded the future Princess to quit the parental
roof by stealth. He was a mature widower, in
point of fact, and Cornwell, senior, smiled so little
upon the escapade that he prowled around with a
loaded pistol inside his shirt, on the off-chance of
getting a pot-shot at his poetic son-in-law. But
after a while the angry father relented, blessed
his eheeildren, and embarked them on the stormy
sea of beer, at the place aforementioned. They
were not peculiarly successful in the liquor-trade,
and Mr. Cornwell gave Mr. Whiteman notice to
quit. Thereupon his blushing bride also gave him
“warning,” and the poet was left to the unsub-
stantial society of the Muses. Somebody was
good enough to bequeath his fortune to “Miss
Cornwell,” she invested in mining shares, and has
finally blossomed into as fine-looking a Princess as
we can think of for the moment. Phil. Robinson
is Minister for Literary Affairs.


Pepper
And
Salt
On an after-dinner occasion at Miller s
Forest (N.S.W.) the other day, and while the
drinks were in progress, Mr. Fraser Martin up-
heaved himself and said he “ would not go into
Parliament to be among wretches who ought to be
hanged.” Yet, strangely enough, Mr. Fraser Martin
is in Parliament already, so he must mean that lie
wouldn’t go there again to be among the wretches
aforesaid, supposing they got in and he didn’t.
Or, to put the circumstance in another way, it
some wretch fit to be hanged ran against Mr.
Fraser Martin and took his seat from him then lie
wouldn’t go in to be among the individual in
question, On the other hand, as the wretches
alluded to appear to be in Parliament and not out
of it-- or else what is all the gas about —it follows
that Mr. Fraser Martin’s opponent would not be
a wretch fit to be hanged till he got in, and then
he would fill the bill as exactly the kind of wretch
in question, and yet, on the other hand, the
wretches fit to be hanged don’t appear to be in the
House, for Mr. Martin says he wouldn’t associate
with them, and if they are there he is associating
with them daily. Where are the wretches then ?
Also where are we, and where is Mr. I raser
Martin? In fact, where is anybody ? This point
wants clearing up at once.
In merciful consideration for the feelings
of the hero of this story we will simply say that
the affair happened somewhere between Bagdad
and Bega. A cattle-duffing case was before the
Court, and the learned Judge having charged the
jnrv, they retired for consultation. Hour after
hour passed, and no verdict was returned. The
Judge, who holds an unbeaten record as a knife-
and-fork performer, grew hungry, and so incensed
that hejwould have willingly h a nged the twelve good
men and true as well as
the prisoner, and helped
to soap the ropes for the
occasion also. His rage
came to boiling - point,
however, when he learned
that one obstinate juror
was holding out as un-
convinceable as a wooden
idol, or a paid Freetrade
lecturer, against eleven.
Ordering tiie lot to be
tiled out before him he
savagely told them that in
his charge to them he had
so plainly stated the case
and explained the law
that the densest dunces
should have been able to
comprehend the whole
affair ; that their verdict
ought to be unanimous,
and the man who permit-
ted his individual opinion
to weigh against the judg-
ment of eleven intelligent
and conscientious men
was totally unlit to act in
the capacity of juror.
Just as he had worked up
a Lor’- have - mercy - on-
yer-soul expression, and
was about to fire off
something stronger, a
squeaky little voice came
from one of the 12,
and asked : “ Will yer
’Onor allow me to say
a word ? ” And permis-
sion being granted, the
miserable little voice
again piped out: “May it
please yer Onor, I am the
only man out of the lot
as sides with your summing up of this ’ere case.”
And then his Honor fell back on his perch with
the crumpled-up air of a man who had just been
whacked over the head with Blackstone’s Com-
mentaries bound in brass.
* * *
When there isn’t a “ Norrid Murder ” on
hand things lag heavily in the office of Alfred
Bennett’s Sydney E. News. Occasionally a wel-
come',suicide comes in to fill the gap, and then the
reporter grasps his fluent quill and revels in, a
description of how the lurid, Blood-stained Maniac
Cut his Throat with a piece of hoop-iron on top,of
a threepenny ’bus, and drove through the town
with a Fiendish Smile on his features and three
bath bricks in his tail pocket; but Blessings like
thpse are not of daily occurrence, and in the dull
season thp. News has to weep over very small
aggravatipm. A few, days ago it got down so low
that it had begun to contemplate the necessity of
hiring a man, to fall down a cellar, when a merciful
dispensation of Providence led, a “well-dressed
young lady ” to the office. She wanted to tell
how a, fellow had promised to marry her and
hadn’t done it, and the man who listened to th
outpouring of her anguish gathered up his head
and wrote
“ ‘ It is a shocking case of which I have to sp eak,' said
a well-dressed, heavily-veiled young lady who called at
the Evening News office to request that, for the sake of
others, her sad experience of one man’s duplicity might,
be made public. It was indeed a long, pitiful, and,
touching story which she had to relate. The whole nar -
rative cannot be given in these columns, bit ere the end;
of these lines is reached sufficient will have been laid bare
to show that there is abroad one m m who deserves to ,be
ostracised from the company of dece it men, and that
women should shun him as they would a pestilential reser-
voir. [‘ Pestilential reservoir' is very good indeed. —Ed. I!. |
It is hardly possible to believe a man so absolutely devoid
of moral principle, so reckless in his fiendish deceit, and
so shamelessly wanting in regard for the feelings of a
woman. Yet the truth of the depths of his degradation
is evidenced by his own hand, in the letters he has written
to the victim of his disgraceful design.”
These sad moral reflections having been’executed,
the voice of the cow rampant is elevated to a
scream :
“ She was a widow with two children dependent on her
labours, and had, since the death of her husband, braved
the battle of life in a highly praise worthy manner. Her
enprgy had won for her the admiration of a gentleman in
a fair position in life, and, had not the agent of wicked-
ness stepped between them, there would probably have
been by this time a happy pair rejoicing in the presence
of each other’s smile. But cruel tVe willed otherwise.
She gave heed to the voice of the deouver, and cast aside
the sf udfast hand that was extended to her.”
At this point we listen to hear something drop.
A little further down the tear-stained page the
soot of the moral reporter crying in a brewery
booms forth afresh :
“ She received a letter that went straight to her heart
as though it had been a thunderbolt. He had bid her
good-bye for ever. He could have nothing more to do
with her. She was reduced to the last state of despair.
For him she had given up all, and he, like a mangy cur,
had shrank from his daylight haunts that he might evade
the retribution that would overtake him did he remain.
He said he was going to Adelaide.”
At the time when this last international outrage
was heaped up it appears that “he had fixed the
happy day when the realisation of his object in
life was to be consummated,” and regarding these
things with the eye which has been so often fixed
upon divorce court items and indecent outrages,
the moral but very dirty News heaves at his head
the epithet of “ gay deceiver.” Up to the present
moment, it appears, the realisation of the article
above mentioned has not come to pass, neither has
the object of his consummation in life been realised,
and consequently the life of his object is blighted,
and the consummation of the realisation of the
but this story is drifting into a wilderness of ruined
and betrayed parts of speech, and an indecent out-
rage is being perpetrated on the Australian gram-
mar. Moreover, we have a “Hideous Act of
Revolting Barbarity ” to write up, and a man is
waiting to give us the particulars of a “Horrid
Murder Down a Well, by a Maniac Husband, in
Five Fits,” and we must hasten on. Just now we
have only time enough on hand to tender to Mr.
Bennett this curt piece of advice ; Wash your
paper, Alfred.
Justice Williams, of Victoria, sentenced
an old man the other day to 15 years’ imprison-
ment for stealing jewellery. This sentence for
life was all Very Well, but the niggardly dispenser
of the gentle rain from heaven lectured the old
man on his past sins as well. His Honor knew
they would never meet again—in any world.
The stream of Irish emigration to the
United States and Canada is increasing instead of
decreasing ; 8000 or more embarked at Liverpool
during a single day a fortnight ago. And yet
people are to be found who talk absurd twaddle
about a future union of the English-speaking
nations in one Imperial confederacy. The idea
is absurd! Let the Daileys and Consul Griffins
and Dr. Jefferises remember that these Irish
people are driven out of their country, their
THE BABBIT CONFERENCE.
“It was resolved that in the opinion of this Conference the usual vegetable diet provided by Nature and the agricultural
classes of these colonies is good enough for us, and that we vigorously abstain from trying any innovations in the shape of
so-called Microbes that may hereafter be imported for our use.”—Carried.
fatherland; that the tender associations which
have grown up through centuries of years are
rudely wrested by the ruthless hand of Imperial
and iandlordistic England; that Irishmen and
Crofters alike leave the homes of their childhood
with grief and bitterness in their hearts, and rage
and vengeance stirring them to the very depths of
their being.
An unseemly disturbance lately occurred
at a fashionable funeral in a small Western Vic-
torian town. An oldest inhabitant was being in-
terred, and the elite of the district had followed
the remains to the cemetery in spring-carts,
wood-drays, and other useful vehicles. With the
rest came two. young ladies, who in the homely
vernacular of the plain pastoralist, “ fancied their
mutton. ” They were rival's, and eaeh had bedecked
herself regardless of cost, with intent to make the
other squeal with envy. But the contest only
eventuated in a tie. They, in fact, did equal
credit to the district, and were so evenly balanced
ih gorgeousness and bustle that the best judges
were unable to proclaim either belle of the funeral;
consequently the homage of the male mourners
was, equally divided, an arrangement at which
both of the damsels were grievously displeased.
So they elevated their noses and sniffed at each
other in a contemptuous manner, saying in a loud
voice,. “Ain’t she a guy ?” and “ Oil!/what a hat!”
and so on. At the graveyard they continued to
cast supercilious glances and painful criticisms at
each, other, and to, pull wry faces, and oscillate
thpir improvers disdainfully ; and' presently they
come up, closer and waxed redder and more
heated, and said it again a number qf times, and
kicked up, behind and! called each other “ Irish.”
Then, there came a sound as of things ripping and
cats talking at midnight ih high places: the two,
maids had met in combat. As they flopped and
floundered and beat up the dust aud tossed hair
and cuticle and torn raiment to the breeze
the rest of the funeral imagined for a moment that
a whirlwind had got tangled in a lineful of wash-
ing, or that a fight to a finish had started between
a Tasmanian devil and a candidate for Parlia-
ment. The combatants ploughed round, and
rolled over, and grass and chips flew high into the
air, and they phinged, and reared, and pitched
into the grave with a dull, sickening flop, where
they continued to harangue with undiminished
vigour, till a man went down and reached Miss
Geraldine Mooney up by the hair, and then the
young ladies were held apart by large bodies of
agriculturists, and the funeral terminated with no.
further mishap. The girls were led home, and
put away to cool; they will probably be about
again by the time this appears in print.
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin, —Here is a temperance
sermon from a gum-log altar. The uninitiated
may not know the curriculum of a “bust” or
“spree.” Here it is :
First glass : Warmth in the stomach.
Second glass : Jolly feeling- in body and brain.
Third to fifteenth : President of the Australian Re-
public—in imagination. N.B. —To evilly-disposed per-
sons the fighting stage here supervenes ; to others the
singing fit, and to some maudlin sentimentality.
Fifteenth to end of first day : Chaos.
Second day: Awake at dawn; pubs, hot open; curse
the publicans ; rap at door ; round to kitchen ; tea from
cook ; ah ! pub. open ! Right after second drink ; break-
fast ; drink again, and the second is. like unto the first.
Yea, and unto seventy times seven if the pewter (both
senses) lasts.
HUT (iii capital*) after dearth (dead-drunk, you know)
the JUDGMENT.
If the publican is a decent fellow, for a publican, you
get a bottle for the road, and repair to the nearest shady
water-hole,
Finish the bottle and hump blue)' a mile or two. Lie
down and awake to
lladeb !
Walk a mile at a time, lie down, ugh ! your dog sneers
at you, the trees laugh at you and you’ve got ’em.
No sleep that night drink water ; shake like a leaf ;
no tucker ; no sleep again.
Very weak next morning, but you can drink tea.
As soon as you can eat damper you’re right.
Then conies an enormous appetite, and the spre£ is
done,
That’s me after shearing,
Scotty the WrinkLeH.
The lineal heir of the Crown of Tahiti is
feeding pigs for a Chinaman in New South Wales,
at a salary of 10s. per week. Hereditary monarchs
find their own level in Australia,
• * *
The N.S.W. Premier, who has abolished
the barbers and tailors on horseback yclept “Lan-
cers,” announces the intention of Ids Government
to raise a force of bush cavalry. Let him call
them “Bushrangers,” and the new corps will be
most popular in the horse-stealing districts,
\
It was Easter Sunday in the remote bak-
blox. The heagle-lieyed mimbir av the foorce (he
was a Scotchman, by the way) “perceived”—a
policeman always perceives, never merely sees —an
individual going out of Smith’s pub. with a black
bottle. He took the bottle. He could not smell,
as inflammation of the mucous membrane of liis
nasal organ prevented the passage of the odorifer-
°tf» particles into the olfactory chamber. He took
a swig, and then half-a-dozen “leps.” It was
holy water, and the holy water, being stale, is
very unutterable in that part of the bush.
• • •
English as she is spoke. Sample of colonial
English taken from a Sydney sporting paper :
“ In the next heat Lightfoot was reported to be a stiff
’un, and the push planked it down in style. He, however,
made Straddler hump himself to get home in a quarter
under even, and those who thought they had him in the
hag' nearly got a slew. For the same heat Diddle went
out at fours to one on, and it was only when the talent
commenced to lay threes against, as if they would never
sicken of it, that his unhappy hackers realised they were
sent for.”
What language, mate ?
* • *
Here is a ghastly story of Lambing Flat
(N.S.W.) in the golden “sixties.” A very dimi-
nutive butcher, after killing a dfozen sheep, hung
them in the shed at the rear of his shop and
covered each with a sheet of white calico. The
claim in which he held an interest was reported
that day to be a “ duffer.” Maddened by bad luck
he went into the shed and hanged himself beside
the sheep. The butcher boy on entering the shed
noticed something hanging without a cover, so tied
one round it and went to his bunk. That same
night two robbers entered the shed and cut down
the body of the butcher in mistake for a sheep,
and it was not until next morning, when one of
the pair was going to cut a few chops off the
“sheep,” that the horrible mistake was dis-
covered. The midnight booty was a fearful
possession in daylight. Needless to say there
was no mutton feast that morning : neither
did they return the stolen property, however much
they regretted the robbery. The butcher was soon
buried in an abandoned shaft. That day the
diggers were telling one another of the strange
disappearance of a man who had lost heavily in a
mining speculation. That was all, and soon such
a common occurrence was forgotten. One of the
robbers “cleared” soon after to California; the
other died recently at Kimberley (W.A.). The
butcher was unmarried and alone in the world,
and the only monument marking the spot where
his bones are deposited, according to the late
Kimberley man, is a post which once helped to sup-
port a windlass.
• •
Like all old gentlemen who have led a
free life, Blackguard Sandy, senior sundowner of
the Murrumbidgee since the death of Joe the
Whaler, is becoming religious at the finish, and
Jimmy the Rambler must now read him a chapter
of the Bible every night. Sandy’s comments
thereon are interesting and original. Readers of
Mark Twain will remember how the irreverent
youth in the Holy Land sneered at the Israelites
'or taking 30 years over a journey which Ben Hal-
liday, the Californian stage-driver, could accom-
plish in 24 hours. Sandy sees nothing improbable
m it. Between Grundel, Togramaine, and Cor-
roboree, all with a dozen miles, he has passed
time from one shearing to another. He thinks
that with good stations like Big Yanko—known
as the fattening paddock —and by “ whispering ’
the cooks, the Chosen People could easily take all
the time on the road. Besides, he believes they
carried heavy swags, as proved by the many re-
ferences to the tents of Israel, which might also
have been supplemented by a “fly'’ after the
manner of the Complete Swagman of to-day.
Sandy avers that the unleavened bread of the
Passover was “damper,” nothing more nor less,
that “Johnny cakes” correspond to manna., and
the fleshpots of Egypt to a modern “ billy ” of
large size, such as the “ Port Fairy.” In fact he
makes out that the Israelites lived like our owlt
Murrumbidgee whalers, and in his opinion the
ten Lost Tribes would never have been “bushed”
had they looked out for the bends of the river.
* • •
The Aboriginals on the Maloga station
(N.S.W.) sham religion a good deal, and, In order
to please their pious teachers, often act pieces of
Scripture. They were rehearsing a piece of the
New Testament in the bush the other day, and
one of them left his leg behind him When he was
going up to heaven. At any rate, it is presumed
he did, for only the leg has been fohnd.
* • *
He is an M.P., renowned for his parsi-
mony. Just after a political meeting, the M.P.
and a dozen local lights were whiling away an
hour, and “liquoring” at regular intervals in the
leading local hostelry. “I am quite hoarse,” ob-
served the member after putting down his tenth.
“ Not with shouting,” remarked a political op-
ponent.
The other day a rich Western squatter
met an “old hand” and said, “How is it that
you are always poor and I am rich? We both
came to the colony together, you brought money
and I had none.” “ Oh, that’s easily explained,”
said the old hand, “You hired with a rich man
and robbed him. I hired with a rogue and he
robbed me.”
This is a pretty story
of the colonial digging
days. A lot of young
fellows, with good claimn
each, were sitting round
the fire of a shanty smok-
ing and drinking grog
served by the hands of
a comely barmaid. She
was a good girl, and the
manly diggers admired
her more than any other
girl on the creek. But it
was of no use wooing
her. She had refused each
in his turn. One of the
diggers, whose claim had
already brought him in
a few thousands, was
more persistent than the
rest. On the night in
question he did not sing
with the other jolly fel-
lows, and with all his luck
and health he was not
happy, and presently he
took out his clay pipe,
filled it, and went towards
the lighted candle on the
bar. Then he drew from
his pocket a £5-note and
held it to the flame. The
girl instantly drew his
hand back. “ Don t
stop me, old girl. There
is m one to look after
m 3, and I’ve no one to
care for ; let it burn —it
is better that it should
burn than that the grog
should burn me, ” sighed
the love - lorn digger.
“Never mind, then, let
me take care of your
money for you,” said the girl. “Will you also take
care of me?” The question was very direct.
They were separated by the bar, so she ould not
fall into his arms right away, but she held his
hand and meekly said, “Yes.” Well, they were
married, and that was 30 years ago. The couple
have had a happy and prosperous life on a fine
Murray River station. One of their sons has
been in Parliament and another is studying medi-
cine in England. The girls are as handsome as
was the mother, and the old man does not forget
the happy inspiration which led him to try to
light his clay pipe with a five-pound note.
# • •
We didn’t make a pile on the Palmer, but
there lingers in our mind a reminiscence of .Cau-
casian superiority that goes far to set off our dis-
mal memories of existence on leatherjaeket and
shin-beef, vain nugget-hunting and lank “ sham-
mies.” It was a Lazarean claim on Sandy Creek,
not far from the pole set up to mark the Chinese
line of demarcation. Bag after bag did the weary
proprietor hump to the waterhole with the mono-
tonous result of grains, nothing but grains, and it
fell out that one evening in the dusk he saw Ah
Mow and Ah Co'w critically inspecting the claim,
and he further saw the lemon-faced heathen fur-
tively remove the covering-stone from the jam-tin
that contained the result of a week’s weary bag-
humping. And it also came to pass that the
sphinx-faced twain came along next day, and
having addressed the luckless fossicker suavely as
“ too mutchee welly good man,” asked, “ How
mutchee gole you catcnemone day ? How mutchee
you selli m killiam ? ” And there came devilish
promptings to the fossicker’s mind as he answered
“ One day one ouncey, John V Me sell him one
hundred and fifty pounds ; you look ’em jam-tin.”
And, scrutinising the grimy white man, John
saw the jam-tin, and asked, “What for you sellem
welly good claim ?” And came the reply : “Me
go Rockhampton sellem gold.” And next morn-
ing saw Ah Mow and Ah Cow in possession of
the coveted ground for a consideration of 250 z.
gold. And it eventuated that next day as the
vendor went gleefully on his way, he came by the
place of his former bootless toilings, and cheer-
fully asked the sweating heathen “how you get
along, John?” And the reply came in shrill
pigeon-English accentuated by moon-eyed malice :
“What for you talkee me? You too mutchee
.ogue! What for you no go Lockeyhamp-
ton ? ” We were that fossicker, and we went our
way rejoicing to Oakey Rush, where we get some
gold and grew tolerably honest.


“I have found Mr. W. F. Caunt’s Phosphorised Iron
' Quinine Tonic superior to any others I have used. It isi
an excellent nervine.—Yours, Nellie Palmer.” Prepared
only by W. F. CAUNT, The Pharmacy, Camperdown..
Obtainable from alt Chemists. Tabe .no substitutes.
Character by Hand-writing.— Professor Alcott, Graphi-
■ologist, will, on receipt of sample and Is. stamps, forward
full clearly defined character of the writer, answer
questions, and recommend the most suitable occupation
without extra charge.—Address, Prof. TlrflH AIjOOTT,
P.<> , Sydney.
When next you bake try P'emell’s Snow-wiiitb Patent
Roiit.Hn Fi.ot'H. and your bread w ill lio as white as snow.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that PemelPs Snow-whitb Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market
Personal Items.
Gresley Lukin has a new Brisbane daily in
his eye.
Sydney has a policeman who is a Bachelor
of Arts.
Ex-Judge Faucett left Sydney for England
by the Cuz.co.
There are in N.S.W. eight Q.C.’s, 9(i
junior barristers, and 563 attorneys.
The Melbourne Exhibition Commissioners
are “ raising Sheol ” among themselves.
Governor Wobinson, of S.A. imported -
buggy fame, will flit to Ceylon instead of Hong-
kong.
Lord Alvanley used to speak of a man who
“muddled away his fortune in paying his trades-
man’s bills. ”
The whole of the late Henry Miller's
horses—draught, stud, and in training —are to be
sold at auction.
Not one of the Sovereigns of Europe be-
longs to a family that had its origin in the country
Over which he rules.
Louis Kossuth is now 86. The old hero
lives at Turin, whence he writes that he feels his
end rapidly approaching.
David Gaunson is suffering from an affecr
tion of the sight. His lungs are all right, but lie
can’t catch the Speaker’s eye.
Francis Adams writes the Queensland
essay for the Melbourne Exhibition catalogue, and
also the Queensland pamphlet.
Marcus Clarke’s widow is bringing out an
edition dc luxe of her late husband's works, bound
in morocco, at £2 2s. per volume.
None of the Melbourne papers mentioned
the enthusiastic jeers with which Governor Loch
was greeted on Eight Hours’ day.
Mr. Charles Addison, Q.C., a member of
the British Commons, is brother to Mr. Addison,
the Sydney stipendiary magistrate.
Rumour says that Premier Parkes was
once a bullock-puncher. He certainly takes every
possible opportunity of talking shop.
Gladstone has an interest in a squatting
property in Victoria. What a reception the old
man would get if he came out to look at it!
“ Permanent minister of Scots Church ”
that is what Melbourne D.T. calls the new pastor
of that fane. “ Praise a fair day at night.”
A Sydney bookseller, on being asked
lately for “Erithof and Injebgorg ” (by Sladen),
■replied that he “ didn’t keep French novels.”
It is remarked that since James Tyson,
the Australian squatting Croesus, turned his sixth
million, he has patronised the cabin when at sea.
It is a significant fact that nearly all of
Tummy’s silver-wedding presents from private
friends were liquor-vessels of some sort or other.
Monarchical joke from the Tory Sportin'*;;
Times
“Mr. Cunninghame Graham, M.P., has had all his
teeth drawn because they had crowns to them.” v
Mr. T. Whiteman, of Liverpool (N.S.W.),
is 95 years of age and a great-great-grandfather.
The two ends of a chain stretching over five/
generations.
In the “Dictionary of Manufactures,”
■against the word Brassey we see; “Iron pyrites in
■coal, mullock, sometimes applied to any rubbish
'(Staffordshire
The Sydney press denies that Lord Caring-
!ton has “ gone in ” for land speculation. It does
not, however, deny that he has “gone in ” for
mining speculation.
Judge Dowling he is the oldest police-
Tnagistrate in N.S.W. His first appointment as
P.M. to the Central, in Sydney, dates January 1,
1851—just 37 years ago.
A Sydney commercial celebrity is known
as “George the Fourth” —because he has been
bankrupt four times. On this principle somebody
■else is Henry the Third.
Three of the most distinguished living
German officers—Counts Moltke, Blumenthal,
•and Waldersee—have, or have had (for Moltke is;
•a widower) English wives.
T. P. O’Connor, M.P., editor of the Lon-
don Star, took his degree of B.A. at 18, and
■•started life as a reporter On Saunders’ News-
Letter, a rabid Orange print.
Lord Sherbrooke—known many years ago
'in Sydney, where he still owns much oily
property, as Robert Lowe—recently underwent,
•a successful operation for'-cataract.
Bismarck’s devotion to his departed Enm-
iperor is shown in a delicate attention he pays thei
widowed Empress by sending her every morning
■from Friederichsruhe the finest roses.
The breakfast of a late well-known Sydney
R.C. dignitary usually consisted of five dozen fat.
■ oysters and a bottle of Guinness’s pig-brand. A
‘ capital menu to. mortify the flesh upon. *
Mortimer Franklyn, the"“ hypothecator,”’
■declares that Parkes is the Father Of Australian'
-Federation. The bonds of sympathy between
Mortimer and ’Enery are very numerous.
‘ ‘ Let me be Queen of Prussia for one
•single hour and I shall die happy.” This is an
■exclamation which is said to have escaped the
. present Empress of Germany 25 years ago.
The dynasty of the King of Bavaria have
■ reigned over their oountry for more than a thou-
■• sand years in unbroken "record. Compared to
■them the Hohenzollerns are the merest of par-
■ venus.
Campbelltown Herald (N.S.W.) gays:
‘“Henry George is the greatest .man \yho has;
lived since the Redeemer was upon earth.” A
■ certain Premier considers that this was merely
said to annoy him.
Among the mining swells of , the N.S.W.
: Silver City is a ’possum-fed blackfellow, who is;
said to draw some thousands a year from his scrip,
and who, better still, looketh not upon the rum
'■ when it is amber-coloured.
Despite all the London triumphs, there is a.
Tfly in the ointment of Graham Berry: The com-
■ moil hangman is a namesake of his, and, it is nia-
i liciously said, one day left a card with enquiries as
to whether Graham knew- his (the hangman’s)'
1 Uncle.
“ You say your name is Scott, sir,” said
the undertaker. Yes,” was the reply. “Ah”
(deferentially) “ may I ask with how many ‘ t’s ’
you spell it?” “That depends,” was the grim
answer of the journalist, “ upon the amount of ink
I have.”
An English society journal brags that
“ the eight ladies who acted as bridesfnaids at the
marriage of the Prince and Princess of Wales are
alive, all married, and none divorced.” Well,
if it comes to that, neither are the Prince and
Princess.
Pasteur is a devout Catholic and goes to
Mass with shocking regularity. He observes the
Saints’ days with extreme minuteness, and prays
with the ardour of an anchorite. This ought to
burst him up with Habigle, the N.S. W. “ Rabbit ”
Minister.
The Landgrave Frederick Wilhelm
Nicholas Carl von Hesse, who is now visiting the
Australias, is 33 years of age. He is first cousin
to the Princess of Wales,, nephew of the late Ger-
man Emperor William, and second cousin to the
present Emperor.
Her Gracious Majesty lavished £lO,OOO
(she was “ rushed ” into that extravagance, but
the story is not new) over a Jubilee present to the
Pope, and now the head of the Roman Catholic
Church has bestowed his holy curse on the boy-
cotting movement.
McKean, the Melbourne attorney, whose
body is at least 4ft. bin. longer than his mind,
says he has known men to be drunk from eating
grapes. That is nothing. We have known Good
Templars and Reeha kites to get into a beastly
state from merely taking medicine.
Editor Stead, of the Pall Mall Gazette,
speaking of the hubbub raised over his allusion to
the Prince of Wales? as “the fat, baldheaded
little man in red clothes,” says he “firmly believes
that flimkeydom wouldn’t have been half so much
horrified had he attacked the Trinity.”
Many extraordinary remedies have been
recommended to the German Emperor. He has
BRIDGET'S REASON.
“SO. BRIDGET, YOU ARE GOING TO LEAVE ME, ARE YOU?”
“VIS MUM,”
“WHAT IS THE TROUBLE? IS THE PAY TOO SMALL: OR IS THE WORK TOO
HARD?"
“NO, MUM, BUT IT'S JHUST THIS. Y’SEE, MUM, OEM A BRUNETTER. AND
WOUR KITCHEN, MUM, WAS FITTED UP FOR A BLONDE. OI WOULDN'T
SHTAY AND THRY ME COMPLEXSHIN IN IT, DAY AND NOIGHT,
MUM, NOT FUR ALL THE GOOLD THAT'S IN AUSHTRALLY.”
Veemfcold to hang around his necka dead dachshund
pwpjjw/, killed before i.s eyes .opened ; tp..allow .a
frog 6o die in hi's hand:; to .drink the water jn
whiie&L a dead mac had been washed.
RoAand Oakes, .J.R., the wealthy squatter
who, a few months ~*fter marrying a yoimg and
■ beautiful wife comm, teed s.uicide at his station
near Bathurst, was 70§^ar.s ( Qf age. He was a son
of. the late Mrs. Oake& .cf Parramatta, whp was
■said to. be the first white, woman born in N. S.
Wales.
“Daddy” Lloyd, the veteran ex-crier of
Melbourne County Court, is a shining light among
the Secularists, and a moderate supporter of Joe
iSyines. “Daddy” is dead opposed to Anarchy,
which he considers .would be detrimental to the
■due collection of small debts in theUoort he long
adorned.
The talented Brennan family of Mel-
bourne are going to d© -some more wonderful
things. Thomas Brennan, brother of the torpedo-
inventor, has gone to England to develope and
patent several inventions which he has made.
T.B. has hitherto earned small wages Sin a tailor’s
shop in Fitzroy.
Dr. Madden, the well-known Melbourne
barrister, is a clever carpenter. He can even do
a little in the coach-building line. He has made a
capital dog-cart. Whenever the Doctor attempts
to argue about anything special or technical, cross-
examiner Purves, Q.C., reminds him that “this is
not a dog-cart, you know. ”
,A : story is being told about a well-known
pressman, who is a devout Catholic. On a recent
fast-day, he went into his club, and called for some
boiled cod. ‘‘We have no cod to-day, sir; only
steak, roast beef, and some game,’’ said the waiter.
“ Well,” said , “ you may bring me a
isteak, but Grid knows I asked for fish.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
A bone of contention—Jawbone Neild..
Playing_a loan hand—New South Wales.
Italy proposes a line of mail steamers from
Genoa to Sydney.
Garrett’s claws—the 18th clause of the
N.S.W, Land Bill.
The population of South Australia de-
creased last year by ,337.
B. R. Wise has not talked so much lately.
A still tongue makes a Wise head.
All the Queensland Labour candidates will
vote for the Naval Defence Bill to be burnt.
The excess of births .over deaths in the
Australian colonies was, during 1887, 72,479.
Four hundred political prisoners in Eng-
lish and Irish gaols. Let us federate, and be
jugged.
Both Harcourt and John Morley intend
to advocate payment of members of the English
Commons.
The N.S.W. Government has paid .to
Messrs. Kidman for groceries diujiug the past tqn
years £557,958.
The population of N.S. Wales is 1,042,919 ;
that of Victoria is 1,026,110; that of N.Z., ex-
clusive of ,608,361.
It is said that a Chinaman presides over
one of the refreshment-room's on the ,N.S.W.
Government’s Southern railway-line. 1 v
It is a fact that Parkes promised Neild
the N-S. W. Comihissidnership at Melbourne 'Ex-
hibition, and then broke his promise.
The population of the Australias at the
beginning of the year was 3,426,562 ; the increase
for 1887 having been 120,155, or 3.39 per cent.
The number of electors on the Victorian
rolls for 1887-88 is 211,132. Of these 196,208 are
on ratepayers’, and 14,924 on manhood suffrage
rolls.
In some of the largest Victorian vineyards,
Chinamen are employed to pick the grapes. They
have supplanted the white man for the last three
or four seasons.
The Sydney Painters’ Society has resolved
to expel all members who in any way deal with
Chinaman. The boycott is the remedy where
Governments are apathetic.
Mr. Chanter, M.P. of the N.S.W. As-
sembly, has his head screwed on properly. He
recently obtained a grant of 25 acres each for the
aboriginals at the Maloga blacks’ settlement.
Russia confiscates the property both of
absentee lords and of foreign landlords. _ The
(lerman magnates of Hohenlohe and Wittgen-
stein have been thus dispossessed of their Russian
estates.
One good turn deserves another. The
secretary to the Parkes banquet at Bathurst was
Mr. C. J. Pruen, father of “ My-dear-Cortis ”
and “ My-dear-Wise ” Pruen, of railway-accounts
celebrity.
A deadlock in the promotion of teachers
has occurred in Victoria ; so the N.S.W. system
can go up one. _ In N.S.W. there are 11 daises of
schools ; in Victoria there are only five : hence
the trouble.
Ninety-live per cent, of the floating trade
in Australian waters is British. Australians have
allowed their K.C.M. Geed Premiers to pay for
protecting this on the pretence that it is Austra-
lian trade.
Editor Drake, of Brisbane, arrived in
Queensland, 15 years ago, an enthusiastic Free!
trader. The difference between the people of
N.S.W. and Victoria subsequently converted him
to Protection.
Sir Psalmyell Griffith stated the other day
at Ipswich (Q.) that his Government “had been
going steadily in one direction for four and a-half
years.” So it has. And now it has just about got
there.. At least we hope so.
Brazil is about to liberate 450,000 slaves,.
This means that their masters have grown tired of
the responsibility of keeping them in damper and
salt mutton, and desire to turn them on the
country as M urrumbidgee-whalers.
Janies Service has yielded to “the soli
citations of his friends’' and .consented to
become a candidate for a seat in the Leg. As-
sembly. Be and bye James will become Premier
of Victoria once again—after a deal of pressing.
Lucie ” Abigail, the N.S.W. Minister of
Mines, at Armidale public school, impressed upon
the children the necessity of “ minding their own
business.” What a pity for N.S.W. that Mr.
Shoemaker Abigail does not follow his own
advice '! Ne sutor ultra crepidam.
The question, “Is separation of the Aus-
tralian colonies from Great Britain desirable?” was
negatived by the Melbourne Trinity College
Dialectic Society the other night. The next sub-
ject for discussion is, “Is suicide justifiable?” Of
course this proposition will be affirmed.
Sir Sam. W. Griffith endeavours to explain
away the charges of Imperialism made against
him by the Press. He has been hunting the dic-
tionaries for a euphemistic definition for the word
“renegade.” In some people’s vocabularies “ex-
pediency ” is the synonym for “ treachery.”
Twenty-seven years ago the late Sir Alex-
ander Stuart gave this Protectionist truth in a
speech in the N.S.W. Assembly, amid cheers
“If buildings could be imported by the calico-
merchants of Sydney, mansions with the prison-
,mark of Portland Gaol would ornament our
harbour.”
According to Parkes there is not in the
.whole of N.S.W. a firm that can manufacture the
locomotives required by the Government. This
statement can be supplemented with a prophecy
to the effect that if Freetrade continues to
dominate that unhappy Parkes-ridden country
there never will be.
Cunninghame Graham, M.P., though
merely a political offender, was compelled to pick
oakum, wear prison-clothes, rise at (i a.m., clean
out his cell, feed on prison skilly, gruel, and brown
bread. And still the British Government expect
him to remain loyal and sing “Rule Britannia”
and “ God save the Queen.”
In narrating his wonderful legislative and
administrative achievements at Bathurst the other
day, Parkes omitted one important item, viz.,
that he foisted on to the new Supreme Court
Bench his political jackals, Windeyer, Innes and
Foster. If Parkes were possessed of any sense of
shame the omission might be accounted for.
It is cabled that the Pope officially con-
demns boycotting in Ireland and the “plan of
campaign” as unlawful. We know they are un-
lawful, but are they unjustifiable ? —that is the
question. The poor old Pope doesn’t count for
much in the shuffle for liberty. He has his blind
eye bn Heaven and the other one on “ temporal
power. ” In a word he is, metaphorically speaking,
in quest of a C.M.G.-ship.
The heirs of the peerage in the United
Kingdom are almost unanimous in petitioning for
a reform of the House of Lords. This is a thinly-
disguised dodge. What they really want is not a re-
form ; they want added powers of legislation, and
that is just what they are nbt likely to get.
Abolish the House of Lords if you like, but don’t
entrench it behind genuine legislative functions.
It is the fashion to rail at the N.S.W. Legislative
Council and compare it with that of Victoria,
which is elective. Democracy makes a mistake
here. An elective Upper Chamber which repre-
sents a capitalistic class is a • real danger to the
people, and this was never better brought about
than in the Berry-mfm-Deadlock days of eleven or
twelve years ago.
“NATIONALISM AND M'TLWRAITH!”
The Queensland Political Cry.
Australia listened ! Through the bawling game
Of played-out rascals gambling for her gold,
The rotten-hearted traitors who had sold
For flimsy English gauds her righteous fame—
Through the foul hubbub, it did seem, there came
The still small voice of nobler things untold,
‘ But How, but now with wonder manifold
She hears a'voice that calls her by her name !
Australia listens, as the mother will
To hear her first-born cry : “ Say, is it death,.
Or life and all life’s hope made audible
That thrills my heart and gives my spirit faith ?
From out the gathering war-hosts leaps forth
shrill ’ "
The double cry, “ Australia, M‘llwraith
The dawn is breaking northward ! Rise, O Sun,
Australia’s Liberty, and give us light !
And thou who through the dark and doubtful
night
With great clear eyes of patience looking on
Even to that splendid horn Republican,
O know what things are with thee in the fight -
What hope and trust, what truth, what right,
what might
To never leave this work till it be done !
Not as these others were, the helpless slaves
Of each diurnal need and cringing debt,
Australia's statesman, have we known thee
yet !
The world’s great heroes call from a thousand
graves :
“ Thy land, a nation, cries to thee to he set
Free as the freedom of her ocean waves ! ”
FRANCIS ADAMS.


GarreT[? ]S Claws: :The 18th Clause.


THE O'SULLIVAN: “MR. DIBES IS NOT THE OLD ARFETRADE MR. DIBBS. HE HAS BEEN BORN AGAIN.”


The troubles that never come are the gratest we have
to bear Skill and science has done much to lessen actual
or anticipated labors and annoyances. Oyster Scollops.
Ramakins, Groton Moulds, Cullenders, Vegetable Drainers
Divided Vegetable Dishes, Pie Cups, Saucepans, and other
little useful things in Crockery, opened this week at
P>r\y Bros., 40*2 and 404 Georg’*? Street.
FRECKLES
can be effectually eradicated by
tne use of Clements’ Frecklebane.
Frecklebane is the only reliable cure. Perfectly harmless.
Post free from the inventor, F. M. Clements 141 King
Street, Newtown, N.S.W., for 2s. lOd. N.S.W. stamps or
P. 0.0. Sold by Washington Soul and all chemists.
Beware of worthless imitations. *
A Slight Mistake.— lt turns out the person charged
with personating a detective was innocent. At the time
the constable arrested him he was busy in his garden
sprinkling his flowers. After some conversation, the con-
stable asked him his name, and the person thinking he
asked, “ What is the name of that?’ meaning the liquid,
replied “Detective Soap.” Hence the arrest. The
prisoner was discharged. The S.M. remarked on the value
of Detective Soap, and said no doubt the insects and grubs
were arrested in their ravages on the flowers.'
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED
Established 1853.
Are as usual showing the largest and
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low prices
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED
Special attention is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru*
ments: —
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS,
The Wonderful VICTOR PIANOS,
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESTEY I Co, AMERICAN OROANS,
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtained Elsewhere.
Ilustrated catalogues mailed on application, but
enquirers are requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W. H. PALING ft GO-, Ltd,
350 GEORGE STREET, three Doors from G.P.O,
Society
A most distinguished visitor of very ancient
family has just arrived in Sydney. We do not
this time allude to any English nobleman. We
are speaking of the Chinese Leprosy; which has
come to the City of the B.H. arm-in-arm with
Mr. Wek Sing.
Benjamin Grarret, of Gippsland (Yic.), has
taken a very bad turn. Some time ago he con-
ceived a deeiJ, dense passion for a big-limbed girl
With a cropped head and overgrown ears, and when
she faded over the horizon he immediately stopped
work and went galloping mad. For two weeks he
did nothing but ride about Sale on a cart-horse
and grind tunes out of a broken-backed concertina.
Then he bit a hole in his own father and chased
his grandmother into a dam, after which he took
a rest, preparatory to informing the Municipal
Council that he was going to marry a kangaroo,
and inviting the councillors up to dance with the
bride. At which stage he was taken up bodily
and thrown into an asylum. He is madly in love
and only matrimony will cure him.
• •
Says the S.M. Herald
GENTLEMAN Would be g'lad to hear of a lady who
would mend his clothes, shirts, &c. Indigens,
Herald.
We should say that “gentleman” wants a wife.
This is probably a new appealing way of introduc-
ing the effete matrimonial advt.
• *
Advt. from a Sydney daily newspaper :
WANTED Housekeeper, not over 30, for young
gentleman, business. Sea-port town.
Just so. It’s a heap nicer to have your coffee
poured out by a young thing in a pale-blue
wrapper, in whose luxuriant ‘ 1 fringe ” there lurks
not one tinge of grey, even though she may burn
the steak and drop it in the ashes afterwards, than
to have an old worn-out clothes-stand of un-
doubted experience, who might annex your latch-
key. Besides, there are lots of other reasons, too !
A certain reverend gentleman of Western
Victoria has been doing things which he ought not
to have done, and loving his neighbour’s wife and
sister as himself and carrying on in a carnal-
minded manner generally, and the Bible Christian
Conference has rounded on him with a delirious
snort and driven him forth from the fold, calling
him “accursed” and other hard names. The
reverend one is a young man of very modest
exterior; he has a blue eye and parts his hair
down the centre, so as to give both ears an equal
chance to flap ; but his soul is filled with the gall
of iniquity, and a ferocious cussedness dominates
his every action. He has trifled with female
affections, the tranquil calm of trusting husbands
and the peace of large families, and his guile is
like unto the pit with its bottom kicked out for
depth, breadth and howling infamy. He has been
so satanically wicked that, after calm contempla-
tion, the Bible Christian ministry professes that
it has never before been shocked by such im-
morality, and the country press only speaks in
whispers, and darkly insinuates that droves of
grown men are pawing around the district carrying
clubs and axes and mauls, seeking the holy one—
who is just now up a tree, keeping his eye on the
big brother who prowls around with the duck-gun.
* * *
The “Queen’s Bounty” for triplets has
been reduced from £3 to £2. Another instance of
Victoria’s womanly sympathy, &c.
Some months ago, a post and telegraph
master in a northern N.S.W. town, had occasion
to send his wife to Sydney. Thinking a little sea-
air would also do him some good he resolved to
accompany her and travel free. So he went to
his commanding officer and gave as a reason why
a railway-pass should be granted him, that his
uniform required fitting and altering. Ihe boss
of the Northern Reserves, who is very particular as
to the fit and style of his togs, considered the
pretext a valid one, and duly granted the postal
man a first-class pass. At the various ticket-
examining stations en route to Sydney muttered
exclamations of “Well Ini' - ! were hearr
from the railway employees who examined the
pass. All N S.W. volunteers should peruse this.
It may teach them a wrinkle.
, * •
The Sultan has ordered the ladies of his
harem to wear low dresses. He has evidently
been looking at the English illustrated papers,
and is determined not to be outstripped by the
British Court. By-the-way, the Sultan’s expendi-
ture, for self and harem, amounts to about
£2,200,000 a year. His income amounts to about
£OOO,OOO. He must feel like a customer of the
Coffee Palace who has taken his girl to supper at
Gunsler’s by mistake.
* * •
Justice Butt, of the beloved mother
country, has laid down as a precedent that “if a
man constantly spits at his wife that alone would
entitle her to a decree of judicial Separation.”
SThus is a long-disputed point tif social order
cleared up at last.
* * *
The following is an unconscious joke from
the programme of services at St. David’s Cathe-
dral, Hobart (Tas.) for Good Friday last
“ Litany and Ante-pommunion Office, 7.30 a.m. Matins
and Sfermon, 10.30—Preacher, Minor Canon Dicker. The
Three. Hours' Agony -Meditation* on the ‘Seven Last
Word#,’ by the Dean, 12 to
Probably the Dean was guiltless of any evil in-
tention in the matter, after all. The parson who
possesses a sense of humour is as extinct as the
megatharium:
* * •
Mr. A. Buckley, of a Melbourne suburb,
is a man with a poetic sold and a strawberry tiose.
Viewed from the front, he looks milder than a
drink of milk, and his back .aspect is only remark-
able for patches and vacancies for patches. He is
a bachelor, but when sewing up a hole with a har-
poon one day a while back he was suddenly
smitten With the almighty fact that it is cold and
hungry and sore for man to be alone, and he sat
Up with a start, and transferred his emotions to
paper on the spot. Next morning one of the
dailies, for a moderate charge, conveyed the
intelligence to all whom it might concern that
an industrious tradesman was anxious to
correspond with a young woman with a view to
matrimony. No particular size, stamp, or colour
was specified, and Mr. Buckley took a holiday or
A DISTINCTION WITH A DIFFERENCE
"WHY DO YOU SMOKE SO MUCH, AUGUSTUS?”
"WHY YOU SEE TT STRENGTHENS THE TEETH, MY DEAR.”
“OH DOES IT? I THOUGHT IT ONLY STRENGTHENED THE BREATH.”
two to be prepared for results; and lo! on the
second day, came a missive purporting to be from
a fair girl named Florrie, who had “ a thorough
knowledge of cookery and plain sewing, was
fond of children, had a sweet temper, and was
radiant as the morn. She felt her soul go
out towards the lone mechanic, and hungered
to be somebody’s darling at the earliest oppor-
tunity. If satisfied with the sample would
Industrious Tradesman visit Florrie at above ad-
dress’” Inclosed was the photo, of a sweet young
creature with soft, mournful eyes and an ingenuous
air. Mr. Buckley was so well satisfied that he
tried to stand on his head, and go through various
other acrobatic evolutions by which he was wont
to demonstrate unrestrained joyousness when he
was yet a child, and he bedecked his person with
fine raiment, raked up his hair to make a big
show, greased his whiskers, and hied him out to
interview the fair Florrie. Following the directions
conveyed in the letter, he knocked at a cottage
door in St. Hilda, and was asked into the parlour
by a large carrotty man, with a cold eye and a
cruel countenance. The large man maintained a
stony expression whilst Mr. Buckley explained
his mission, then he invited his daughter into
room, and asked her with unnatural calm what m
thunder it was all about, and she said she didn t
know anything about it at all, and furthermore
protested that Mr. Buckley was a cranky old guy,
and thought it would be just as well to kick him
on the ear before he went too far. At this stage
the visitor endeavoured to justify his proceedings
by producing the photo., which the Wicked
Father recognised as the likeness of a popular
music-hall siren, and, without more ado,
he seized upon Mr. Buckley, and hauled him
over the furniture, thumping his nose and bump-
ing his head at every opportunity. Then he towed
him into the garden by the ear, and dropped him
on to an American-aloe, and kicked him off again,
and “ plugged ” him in the ribs 40 times, and when
the lone mechanic broke away, he chased him
round the house with a rake, whilst the daughter
unlatched the dog, and a small boy ran for the
police. Details of the subsequent proceedings are
too harrowing for publication, suffice it to say that
before our hero could find breath to explain that
it wasn’t his. fault, but that he was the victim of a
dastardly conspiracy, those parts of his person
which were not chewed or abraded were too deep
for detection. We beg to state that the party
who compiled that letter is a miserable and iniquit-
ous outcast who will assuredly come to a bad end,
and have his grave caroused on by wombats.
* * *
Sonie jokers bound the clapper of a Mel-
bourne church-bell so that it could not be rung',
and thereby incurred the indignation of a local
paper, a couple of Sundays back. The gaggers
can, however, congratulate themselves on having
the great body of the people with them. There
is a popular wish that all church-bells were
tongue-tied.
* * *
A Melbourne thief, whilst easing a woman
of a purse containing a few shillings, dropped a
diamond ring worth 30 guineas into her pocket,
and she found it there when she went to feel for
her cash ; and now Melbourne women are wearing
their pockets more exposed than ever.
* * *
Miss Bock, recently tried in N.X. for
theft, is a most unfortunate creature. She is
passionately fond of stealing, and has broken the
world’s record with the number of her convictions.
She would rob anything or anybody, from a one-
legged beggar to a blind asylum. She confessed
to her weakness, and requested the magistrates to
lock her up securely till her friends could place
her in a private asylum. So they stowed her m
the lowermost dungeon and double-locked the
door and set men to watch her, as it was feared
she would steal the gaol. It is sad that a person
so gifted should be debarred from the one calling
which she might adorn—as a policeman, honour
and affluence and many terraces would await her.
* * *
In Melbourne, Mr. Bible has just married
Miss Cross i
Her name she loses, but her loss
Is gain : with it she yields her Cross,
Unlike the Christians who faith libel,
He bears his Cross besides his Bible.
Asocial friend struck a new idea in re-
gattas the other day in a N.S. Wales township,
where etiquette appears to be at a low ebb. He
placed on the programme a pair-oar event, ‘‘each
boat to be pulled by a lady and gentleman, and
the race promised to create great excitement,
until it transpired that only one lady in the whole
district knew how to accelerate the wash-tub over
the bounding billows. She had duly entered her-
self along with a gentleman who was not her hus-
band, and had laid in a lovely blue costume, cut
short at the ankles, with red stockings and a semi-
nautical hat of a pork-pie tendency, and when she
learned that there was no prospect of exhibiting
these glories while catching crabs on a two-mile
course, she melted into tears, and wept copiously.
Ultimately, however, the matter was compro
mised. Her loving husband entered himself with
another boat so as to make up a race, and in order
to fu ii -h the necessary crew his clean-shaved
groo.n was put down for the time being under the
name of Maria Jane, and rowed in a bonnet and an
unaccustomed bustle. The lady in the blue cos-
tunie got away with the lead, while Maria Jane,
on receiving the order to “gee,” floundered
abjectly in the rear. The stable language which
she used when she caught a crab and her mode of
shrieking “ woa !” at critical moments in the race
excited a good deal of attention, but the lady in
the screaming hat of the pork-pie variety achieved
a triumph, and this is the first intimation the
committee have received of the riiean trick which
was played upon them.
* * *
Any person in Victoria who wants a Govern-
ment billet should now apply to a certain widow.
N.B.—This statement is without prejudice.
• • *
Our opinion of ; the brave old British tar
gets lower and lower. In the days of wooden
ships that rollicking sea-dog used to imprecate his
eyes and kill six I'tenchmen with a naked cut-
lass. But now he only kills time, with original
poems dedicated to I\aron Brassey. «1 ack cannot
curse, and to get blind drunk he is ashamed. He
has sunk to this :
The man who acts as his own lawyer does
not always have a fool for his client. At the late
Dubbo (N.S.W.) .Assizes the pnly prisoner ac-
quitted was the only one who defended himself.
* • •
Now that the Master Bakers’ Society is
talking of abolishing “improvers’” Sydney ladies
threaten to boycott their bakers and eat cakes
instead of bread.
C. E. Jones, M.L.A., of Paschal Lamb
and Mint-sauce fame, although a Welshman, in-
variably becomes mildly hilarious on St. Patrick’s
Day. Irishmen at Ballarat used to vote for him
on that account, thinking it was his love for Ould
Oirland, but it leaked out that the 17th March
was C.E.’s birthday. This year he was (SI,
A bust of Sir John Robertson has been
placed in Sydney Free Public Library, The fol-
lowing inscription should be written on the
pedestal :
1. Patriarch of Watson’s Bay.
2. Father of many children,
3. Hater of Victoria.
The ‘ ‘ Vagabond ” has not yet learnt how to
safely dismount from a running tram. He tried
it in Melbourne the other day, and was thrown on
to his features, and much shattered. The peculiar
thing about this accident is the fact that Julian
admits the mishap was entirely his own fault,
from which we gather that he is quite satisfied
with the damages received,
James Ferguson, teetotal-leader and ex-
M.L.A., who died in Melbourne last week, only
distinguished himself on one occasion in Parlia-
ment by shying a big book at the head of
another member in a full house. The other
member hadn’t accused James of bribery or cor-
ruption, or of Kensington Hill-ism, cr of selling
gravel to the Government; he had simply charged
James with—dyeing his beard.
Patteson Jolly, the oldest man in con-
nection with the printing trade in the world, has
just died in Dublin aged 104. He was fourteen
years of age at the time of the Irish Rebellion, in
1798, and had a distinct recollection of all the
events of that troubled time. Seventy years ago
he printed the first sheet of theEmxBCROH Journal
for Messrs. Ballantyne, with whom he served his
time. He it was who printed all Duffy’s Irish
national publications.
When an Englishwoman poor
Had three little ones, or more,
At a birth, ,
The Monarch gave three “ quid,”
Which she thought (as many did)
Was their worth.
But it seems that at the Court
Ready money’s getting short—
Rather tight ;
And these calls upon her means
Were so many, that the Queen’s
Taken fright.
So now, when mothers need
Three more baby mouths to feed 1
All at once,
Less, by thirty-three per cent.,
Is the Royal Bounty sent
(Call it “ bunce.)
Changed to thirteen “ bob ” and four
Is the golden pound of yore,
Which she gave;
! Tis a prudent cutting-down
In the charges on the Crown—
What a save !
Mothers may be ailgry, but
Babies now are quite a glut
In the land (
P’raps Her Gracious would imply
That there’s rather more supply
Than demand.
“ God bless the noble Brassey, generous peer—■
For ever may he live in brilliant fame ;
May all the future Christian world revere
Lord Brassey’s noble, great, illustrious name.
God bless his brilliant, gifted lady wife ;
May glorious fame revere the path she trod,
And may they both receive eternal life
With angels singing at the throne of God.”
price is the modern gallant tar when he slings
slush at a conversazione (tea and cake) held by
the British and Foreign Sailors’ Society in honour
of a puffy parvenu ? Gilbert had the measure
of the “splendid seaman” before he wrote
“Pinafore.” Here’s another pome for the next
eonversazione :■ —
God bless the noble Brassey and his yot !
And may his coin increase and multiply,
And may he hear a lot more tommy-rot
Like this recited, ere he has to die.
God bless the lady missus, gone before
(Whose doleful fate forbids all further jeers),
And when he joins her on the Golden Shore
We hope they’ll put him in the House of Peers.


Among’ the many improvements we have noticed in the
city is that of the well-known and old-established Royal
Hyde Park Hotel, corner of Bathurst and Elizabeth streets,
opposite Hyde Park, Sydney, The proprietor, Mr. M.
Sum.vby, has spared no expense to make las hotel the first
in Sydney *
J. B. Pack’s and Co.’s Bangle Brand smoking Tobacco is
the most delicious smoke in the world, acknowledged by
all connoisseurs to he the most delicate in flavour. Pre-
pared so that the combustion is perfect. Burns out to th e
last particle with pure white asN. Try it.
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow- whits
Patent Roller Flottr. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality ir exceptionally £>-ood, and the price very low.'
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Skow-wkitb
Patent Holler Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, May 2, 1888.
My dear Moor a bind a—
On Wednesday last Lord and Lady Oarington left
Government House for Norfolk Island. A more splendid
day could not have been prayed for —to be followed at
sunset by a glorious full moon in cloudless sky. Lady
Oarington went on board the Nelson in a straight dark-
blue skirt with a deep baud of Matching velvet round the
feet; a grey jacket cut coat-shape, with brown velvet
Collar, brown hat With brown ribbons and cream flowers ;
and a brown tulle fall. Dark-blue parasol, tan gants de
su6de, and canvas yachting-shoe 3. She also wore a
pretty breast-knot of chrysanthemums and looked as
happy as she confessed to being. The three vice regal
infants were alike in light cinnamon-coloured ulsters,
black hose, and brown hats trimmed With brown and
cream ribbon. I like the vice regal infants, they are
always so enthusiastic. The Baron deserted us in a high
black hat and with a flower in his coat. I know he is
pleased at getting away from the social treadmill for a
brief season—l should be. Lady Oarington has taken
only one maid—but, gracious me ! that Abigail will have
her hands full, for the vice regal household have with
them enough luggage to sink a ship ! Of course we had
the National Anthem when they got on board the old tub,
and a salute of 17 guns made me wish that my tym-
pana were cast-iron for this occasion only. Well, they
steamed out of the harbour and out of the Heads at dusk,
and, considering that they enjoyed the idea of the trip,
that the Nelson officers are just perfect loves (with one
solitary exception !), and that the weather seems set fair
for an indefinite period, if they don’t have a good time in
the land of mixed relationships it will probably be owing
to themselves.
Perhaps you don’t know that I am a perfect authority
on Norfolk Island? We went there yachting a year ago,
and I didn’t like it at all! The people are uncompromis-
ingly “good,” They attend church whenever it occurs
to them (whicli is often), and there is always the hum of
the preacher abroad. It is owing, probably, to this cir-
cumstance that they are so dreadfully extortionate. 1 f
you wish to buy from them, it’s “ whatever you please ! ‘
Then, when, in desperation, yon fix your own figure, they
say that you cheated them over the bargain ! As to Sum
day! Oh dear me! A Norfolk Island Sabbath is the
dreariest piece of business this of the equator unless
you happen to belong to their pW . Gar religious “pizon.”
If you do well the “ elders” L for unlimited kissing
amongst the sisters of the tabernacle, and that livens up
matters somewhat. Norfolk is a perfect Promised Land
for the bibliomaniac. They have any number of ancient
Works stowed in corners, and part with them willingly—
at about thrice their original price, which is, of course,
dirt-cheap for the book-worm. When we were over there,
the excessively agreeable and civilised Doctor Metcalfe was
the Mikado of the territory. He was married to a native
of Norfolk—a very pretty woman, The Sydney press is
over there, too. A onetime S.M. Herald reporter went
over to the island several years ago and never came back,
and, as the nursery book says:
“ For all / know or all you know,
He may be living yet! ”
Apropos of Lady Carington’s visit to Norfolk Island,
She is the first Governor’s wife who has ever trod the his-
toric soil. When Lord Loftus went Lady Loftus stayed
behind to look after the fowls and see that the household
maintained its usual economic standard.
Having nothing else to do for half-an-hour one day last
week, I went up to St. Andrew's Cathedral to see Bishop
Barry confirm some Sydney youth (as I thought). * But,
gracious ! some of the girls were old enough to have been
confirmed ten years ago! There were 19 of them.
Eighteen in the orthodox white get-up and one repentant
sister in maroon cashmere, with linen collar and cuffs and
white tulle headdress. She looked just like a housemaid !
The dear Primate wore a gold ring and clean shave as
usual, and told them, with great stress, that they were,
then and there, renouncing the pomps and vanities of this
wicked world. Once a girl was about to submit to the
ordeal in a pretty white India-muslin gown trimmed with
old point, and she showed it to me. “It's nice, isn’t it?’
said she, blushing. “It will do well for small dances after
I’ve been confirmed ! ’ That naive remark made me some-
what sceptical as to the everlasting benefits in all cases of
the “ laying on of hands.” I couldn't help wondering if
one of those girls would have refused had I asked her to a
fancy-dress carnival next week ? There were present some
of the “ trousered,” who were patted on the top-knot, too.
One was over 40 ! He had probably run through the p’s
and v’s—he ought to have done so. One sandy-whiskered
visitor took a prominent seat, and stared the poor, cold-
looking religieuses out of countenance the whole time.
You no doubt remember the story about the pool-
woman who, when upbraided by the clergyman for ap-
pearing at the marriage-altar with an intending bride-
groom who was tipsy, and asked “ why she did not bring
him when he was sober ? ” cried bitterly and said it was
“ because he wouldn’t come then.” But I really believe
that an occurrence of which I heard the other day was
even more amusingly illustrative of the determination of
a woman to keep the husband she had caught. At a
fashionable church, just at the most momentous part of
the ceremony, a large rat rushed from under the organ
and darted flirecti 1 towards the “ happy pair.” Every
woman hut one in the place looked round for something
to stand upon, and that one was—the bride.
Of the many who travel by rail I don’t suppose over a dozen
k how that the order to leave the carriage by the door next
the engine is the idea of a lady, for a loilg time teacher of
music and singing- in Sydney ! It’s a good idea, and if it
were only adhered to would prevent a great amount of
confusion in the aisles. I always follow it, but many
don’t.
I have just come from viewing the wedding-trousseau
of a friend of mine who is about to light By men’s torch;
and though the clothes were well made'and super fin 3
they weren't what / would be satisfied with ! Phooh !
< inly—certainly the best—lrish linen? My underwear
should be what the upper-cut Americans now universally
adopt—white silk. By the way, the ton themselves wear
coloured silk -occasionally, when in evening dress, at
which time a silk undervest, pointed back and front, is
worn to match the costume in colour. Speaking of under-
wear, a friend told nle the other day that Mrs. Langtry
(/icl wear corsets in her ante-stage days. He met her on
one or two occasions, and on each she was pinched in
round the diaphragm and obviously wore a pair of
Parisian compressors ! This vandal then went on to say
that the Lily wore such tight boots that she could
only walk with difficulty. He also commenced to
allege that the Lily's complexion wasn’t altogether inno-
cent of Piver—— but I stopped him ju3t there. I never
like to hear a man telling a woman how another woman
cosmetics.
I haven’t bought my review-costume yet—partly be-
cause I have half made up my mind to ride—partly be-
cause I don’t know whether to buy “ Ruddigore ” stripes
or something which will transform your innocent Sappho
into a Charlotte Corday or Scarlet Woman ! I have a
great choice of colours, though. I have all the reds (the
most popular of which will be a scarlet of the most
dazzling poppy tint) —a Very bright green—nearly every
shade of yellow and mastic ! In any of these I shall
know that I am shaped to suit the times, but still I hesi-
tate. I don’t like green—l hate red—and the yellow
doesn’t become me, and perhaps if 1 wear an unbecoming
frock I’ll meet the same fate as a Sydney lady who got
into a ’bus crowded with men the other day: None rose
for some time until one who seemed but just to grasp the
situation offered her his resting-place. “ I thank you,”
she said, clearly, “ but I don’t like to deprive the only
gentleman in the ’bus of his seat! ” She surely must have
been a dowdy or something ! Wear a becoming colour and
there isn’t a male in Australia will allow you to stand whilst
he sits! I’m afraid I can’t have a silk this winter, for
fashion decrees these sweet fabrics must be either
striped or spotted, and Fred, will have neither. He calls a
woman in stripes a “tiger,” and iii spots a “ leopard,”—
so, as Yum Yum says, “ You see my difficulty, don’t
you?’ But, really, it doesn’t make much difference what
one wears. Australian gowns are rags— just rags com*
pared to what they have in England. Fancy the “ silver
wedding ” costume for wedding or full dress, fashioned of
very thick, soft white silk with bunches of lilies of the
valley in brightest silver brocaded upon it! Others have
large hunches of oats, barley, and wildflowei’s, in gold or
silver damassc on their pure white surfaces. In London
coloured brocades show the dainty devices of Louis
XIV. and his successor. Some have a ground tint
of vivid yet pale green, thickly strewn with tiny
bunches of many-coloured rose-buds tied with
true lover’s knots of celestial blue! A ball costume
is of black Lyons velvet, lined with satin, and
studded with diamonds, the entire front of the dress being
covered with diamond stars, and on the left side were
velvet bows clasped with diamond buckles. Tiara of
diamonds and plume and necklace of diamonds. The
“Miss Dash looked well in tulle skirts and ruby velvet
bodice ” of the Sydney and Melbourne fashionable scribes
becomes a terribly unworthy description in the glare of
those studded diamonds.
If the theory that whenever one gets into a “ wax ” an
unseen influence snips ten years off one’s life is true, your
own Sappho hasn't much longer to meandel- across this
paper, for the other night I got into quite a rage at the
theatre (I won’t use a more distinguishing adjective !) and
over what do you think ? Why our national nuisance, the
tyro in music of the sex that does its hair up. I was
Unfortunate enough to be placed immediately behind
one of these. In her bony, ungloved left hand she carried'
the vocal score—with her bony right forefinger she one,
two, three’d, one, two, tlaree'd in time to the orchestra
till I thought I'd either go mad or stab her with a hair-
pin. If perchance a performer sang a semitone under or
above the scored note she flounced and frowned and
“shoo’d” and “tut-tutted” (perhaps, even swore!) and
otherwise publicly indicated that she was mentally verv
uperior and very much shaken up indeed. One
hing I noticed—that when the tempo altered frequently
in the one aria and required careful treating—that bony
forefinger wavered in mid-air and descended hesitatingly,
more frequently out of time than in it ! I’m perfectly posi-
tive that that woman (she’s by no means singular, though !)
has no more real harmony in her soul than has a tram-
motor ! Beating time with a virtuosi frown, on the open
score, no doubt awe 3 many small minds, who, probably,
don’t reflect that, given impudence enough, they can do
the same themselves any night of their lives ! A few
shillings will purchase the score—the “ musician’s frown ”
can be put on by anyone not absolutely idiotic—and, as to
beating time ! why you needn’t know a note ! Just keep
your eye on the conductor’s baton and follow' it with your
finger!
There is a boys’ school at one of the Points where the
sons of the Chosen People may he found in shoals. These
youths (amongst whom—according to the Semitic re-
ligious code—may be the coming Messiah !) started a
school newspaper, of which I have a copy, and—it con-
sisted almost wholly of racing fixtures. How delightfully
characteristic !
The sunsets are getting glorious now, and there’s a
snap in the air that reminds one winter is perilously near.
Of course, we’re all eyeing the furs displayed in Jones’—
meditating purchase. In Paris rabbits are the staple fur-
producers. The domestic, long-haired bunny makes that
deliciously lovely and expensive fur known as “ Siberian
fox ” (oh, the mendacity of milliner mankind !). The
common rabbit becomes “real otter,” while the repu-
diated black cat, which we are eternally shooing off our roof-
. trees as a common pariah, is metamorphosed by those clever
Parisians into the most expensive black fur cape procurable.
Australia should be studded with fur manufactories. It’s
a way out of the rabbit difficulty, too ! I'm sure I shall
grudge paying through the nose for the skin of an animal
that our Governments are willing to fill a big cheque to
get rid of.
, I hear that a resplendent youth with much money and
possessed of an ancestral hall on the confines of Woolloo-
mooloo, has gone and married a nymph of the pavement.
Mrs. Gordon-Baillie, according to “ L.H.J.” in a Sydney
paper, was a fluent woman. Now I don’t like flat contra-
dictions, but still, on the strength of some acquaintance
with the lady, I must say that Mrs. G. B. was not a fluent
woman at all ! No, she was far better—she was about the
best listener you ever met! All women are talkative—it
is, I think, one of our chiefest failings. The crofters
spurious championess let everyone have his say, merely
interjecting her own comments when opportunity offered.
She tempted you to talk to her—her aptitude for listening
was so marked ! “ L.H.J.” was evidently ensnared like
the rest, and, being garrulous and charmed also, he re ;
members the air was full of voices, but forgets that the
major portion of the dialogue was his own. How vain
men are ! '
At one of the recent recaptions at Government
House, Sydney, a poor soul from Gum tree Flat
got in; I’m sure by mistake. “ E.W.W.” tried his
hardest to put her through, but it was no use. When he
introduced her she let something fall, picked it up, and,
ooviously at sea as to what was requirel of her, turned
her back on Lord Carington's outstretched hand and
marched off. His Excellency walked after her, to shake >
hands, I suppose, and kindly and gently touched her on
the shoulder to arrest her attention. The lady looked
around (for she resented such shocking familiarity) and
marched off in a tantrum to join the crowd of guests who
had already passed into the reception-room j. And I was
told the other day that when a Sydney lady’s servant
orally announced a visitor to her mistress the latter re-
marked : “ You have not brought me Mrs. ’s card.
Did she not give you one ? ” “ No, muni,” was Bridget’s
reply > “ I didn’t need One, for you see, mum, I knew her
well, for I often saw her at Lady Carington’s receptions.”
I have a good coachman-story to tell you. A certain
Australian magnate advertised for a coachman, and
amongst the applicants was one who took the Master’s
eye by storm. He was engaged—chiefly on account of
his duke-like behaviour—and entered on his duties with
a grace that won everybody, from his mistress to the “ but-
tons ” of the establishment. On the box he was the
cynosure of all eyes feminine, and when he was off duty
he blossomed out as great—nay, a greater swell than his
master. By and bye his mistress, grown tired, probably,
of admiring his back from the cushions of her carriage,
had him elevated to the position of butler, and in that
capacity he bowed before her every afternoon with the
tea-tray, and she could lingeringly gaze on his facial
charms and enjoy his particularly recherche behaviour as
she creamed and sugared the Bohea. And wasn't she
envied ! Lady visitors used to stealthily eye this paragon
of a butler. He took the “tuck” out of ever}’ man in
the room as he handed the cups about, and his mistress
was delighted with him even though he made her own
lawful hub. look as shabby as a last year's bonnet. Even-
tually came a lady visitor who gazed on this dilettante
servitor with the gaze of familiarity and remarked to the
hostess: “Why you have P -here!” “Do you
know him?” came the astonished rejoinder. “ Well, yes.
He’s my husband’s late secretary—brother to the Earl of
L !”
The season of skating is upon us, and the roar of the
steel roller is heard in the land. This season skating-
parties will he of frequent occurence—to the detriment of
hops—although the stewards of the Woollahra Private
Assembly tell me that they intend re-organising the
Nithsdale dances this season. Five balls are to he given :
the .first on the last Friday in May, and the four others on
the same night in each ensuing month. I prefer dancing
to skating—although the new skating-costdme—a redin-
gote trimmed largely with fur-cap en suite looks “ rather
fetching.”
Miss B. Prescott and Mr. Frank Bonthorne, of Maitland,
w4re wedded on the 4th inst. The bride wore a pretty
innocent sort of frock of white ottoman silk with a front
drapery of Brussels net covered with crystal pendants. A
crystal clasp held the net on one shoulder. A crystal
girdle with huge white ostrich-feather fan accompanied
the get-up. Nine bridesmaids and any number.of guests
helped to assist the principal performers, who departed
by the evening train to the mountains. The bride trans-
formed herself into a danger-signal for travelling, wearing
a red cloth costume, red hat, arid red umbrella. In the
evening a ball was held at West’s Rooms, which was well
attended, pretty faces and nice frocks being the rule.
Another wedding which has caused some pleasant ('hat in
Sydney and'Melbourne drawing-rooms was that of Miss
“Gussie” Mein (whom so Many of us remembef)
and Mr. Leishman, of the land of bananas and
Premier’s manifestoes. The lady’s frock was of
ivory-white duchesse and Point de Galle dentelle,
and was mads with a court train and petticoat. Only one
bridesmaid was permitted—Miss Annie Mein —who, being
one of the beauties of the Cabbage Plot, necessarily be-
came irresistible in the pretty artistic drapery of white
silk and gauze, with irresponsible gleams of daffodil-yel-
low here and there. Still another wedding—this time at
Parramatta —was nicely “ staged’’—Miss Lily Fullager, of
the -City of Oranges, looking like a blossom in white silk,
lace-draped, and huge bouquet of white roses, as she
Vowed to see to the buttons of Mr. E. Tanizstti (son of
Dr. Vanizetti) for henceforth and evermore. Dr. Marano
(by the by, I wonder what the Doctor’s thoughts are on
marriage—the ceremony, I mean) stood nobly by the
groom, and six bridesmaids cams to back the bride up,
each carrying a bouquet, the gift of the happy he.
Honeymoon at Katoomba, in the domains of
Host Goyder, who complacently gazes at the melting
couples whom you meet arm-in-arm and hand-in-hand on
the staircases, and says, “ Ah ! dear me ! they’ll get over
it in time.”
They are, f.o n what I read, now trying to make it the
fashion in Sydney to get married in the evening, in low-
necked dre3S and short sleeves. A certain clergyman of
my acquaintance says there can he only one step further
than this, and that is to get married at 11 p.m.—with a
little more on. Yours affectionately, Sappho Smith.
[lnteresting items of fasnionable intelligence intended
for this column, will at all times be thankfully received
and acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.
“Judge Wincleyer is said to have much
beiiefited by his trip to England, and is actively
performing his functions again. He sentenced a
man to death this week at the Dubbo Circuit
Court, and held out no hope of mercy. ” —Lithgow
Enterprise.
The Hitchcock patent lamp, an invention
which is run in N.S.W. and Queensland by
Messrs. T. Wilson & Co., of 58 Market-street,
Sydney, is doing a large trade and casting a new
light on many hitherto obscure subjects. In point
of illuminating power it engages in a tough con-
test with the gas supplied per medium of a menda-
cious meter, and in many cases succeeds in leaving
that deceitful fluid in the rear ; and it is con-
structed on a novel plan which effectually prevents
fire or explosion. On being capsized it is instantly
extinguished, and this inestimable quality opens
out for it a vast field of usefulness in back-blocks
hotels, political meetings, and other scenes where
lamps are thrown about in the midst of heated
discussions. It is also valuable in the domestic
circle where the family infant hauls the ordinary
kerosene lamp down on top of itself and becomes
a corpse in consequence, the Hitchcock being built
so as to defy the attacks of the most suicidal baby
on record. It burns at a cost of one farthing per
hour and is largely used for street-lighting- pur-
poses in up-country townships where funds are
low and precarious.
Brief Mention.
Of great interest—Abigail’s bank.
The L.O.L. (ly) Pop Shop Abigail’s
bank. ”
A queer case—Parkes’ imported Eurasian
compositors’.
More jumping at the Queensland mines.
This is leap-year.
Melbourne Age speaks of local dairymen
as 1 ‘ milk-producers. ”
Dr. Hearn, one of Australia’s greatest
men, is dead. Hearn to urn.
New South Wales can float a loan. There-
fore she ought to cut the painter.
A spoon is larger than a piece of charcoal,
therefore a donkey can eat a raw kanaka.
“Beer is being liberally discussed in
banco,” says Melbourne Herald. The jug and
the court closely associated.
The “ Vagabond’’ lias gone to keep an eye on
the state of Europe. We had hoped Julian was
going to give his “ T’s ” a rest.
From Bega (N.S.W.) Gazette 1 :
ANTED, a family of four Milkers, including' two
active boys. Apply Gazette Office:
At the hearing of a recent bull-stealing case
up North the plaintiff, a Kennedy squatter and
J.P., described himself as a “glazier.”
A Broken Hill paper says Parkes ‘ ‘ wants
to be Premier until he dies.” And then, we
guess, he’ll be an Under-Secretary for Mines.
Avery bald Victorian M.P., speaking at
a banquet the other day, remarked that “Nature
had been hard on his head.” Nature abhors a
vacuum.
Armstrong—-Hare—ln the holy bonds of
wedlock at Kyneton (Vic) the other day. We
wager that Armstrong goes bald before he loses
his Hair.
“Our patrons” was one of the toasts at
the Eight Hours’ Association banquet in Mel-
bourne the other day. Toast and butter—especij
ally butter. 1 J
“ Big bell-sleeves are again becoming
fashionable in ladies’ walking-dresses,” says a
Melbourne paper. Of course big bell mouths will
remain as of yore.
A Chinaman in Queensland choked him-
self with his own pigtail. Now that a use has
been found for the article, we hope that it will
not be allowed to get rusty.
Tawhiao, King of the has agreed
to take the oath of allegiance to Queen Victoria!
Poor old Tawhiao ! When he, the representative
of a splendid race of warriors, was in England,
whither he had gone to see the Queen, she refused
to receive him, although, in the course of the same
week, she paid a visit to a pair of repulsive
baboons sent her as a present by the King of
Abyssinia.
The unfortunate “ Lady ” Munro (sister
to Lady Mordaunt and Lady Dudley) attended
church the other evening in Newcastle, N.S.W.,
and, after prayer for the poor had been offered,
arose and requested a special act of devotion on
behalf of “a daughter of the house of Moncrieff.”
The prayer proved effectual. She was fined at a
police-court as a “ drunk and disorderly ” the very
next morning,
Sir Charles Dilke is a man of bad judg-
ment in a crisis. After his marriage with Mrs.
Pattison, and in the height of the scandal, for
several successive Sundays he attended church as
a communicant. Por the benefit of those who
mayn’t know, a communicant is a person who is
thoroughly identified with his faith and supposed
to be an example to the young and uncertain in
the congregation !
The final bulletin issued re old warrior
William and his imperial dissolution ran, “ The
state of weakness from which the Emperor was
suffering yesterday increased during the night,
and has now attained a high degree. ” There is a
fine Court polish about that. His very weakness
was illustrious, so to speak, and attained a high
degree. When a vulgar outsider comes to the
solemn sinking condition, the doctor says he’s
getting lower and lower.
Premier Parkes has just had his portrait
painted by a Chinaman--probably for half-a sove
reign or so—which is extremely'flattering to the
artistic world of a city containing such a painter as
Signor Nerli. The Hi Ham is represented by John
as a young and comparatively innocent man with a
hairless face. The Mongolian daub is on view at
Mr, Aldenhoven’s, Hunter-street, Sydney, but it
will very soon be put out of the way when Parkes
“has his attention drawn ”, to this paragraph,
‘ Hi never read The Bulletin,” dontcherknow.
An architect who was up before Judge
Dowling in Sydney District Court last week,
swore that 15 years ago his income was £4OOO
a-year ; now it averaged £3 or £4 a-week. In his
days of prosperity this architect built one of the
finest theatres in Australia, and some of the most
costly residences of the Australian millionaires ;
in those days, too, he was renowned all over the
Continent for the number, size, quality, and value
of the diamonds which he carried on his person.
He was, in fact, Beaney’s rival. When he ap-
peared before Judge Dowling, the other day, he
wore no diamonds.
Lord Rosebery, who as the world knows,
married one of the wealthy Kotbsehilds, once took
her to India with him. They attended a dinner
in Madras at which the Duchess of Manchester
was seated next to the Rajah Bundlesomethingor--
other. The Rajah asked: “And this Lord
Rosebery of your great country—has he brought
his wives with him?” “S-sh!” exclaimed the,
Duchess, blushing scarlet. “That’s Lady Rose*
bery over there, next the viceroy ! ” The Oriental
regarded Lady Rosebery for some moments, and
.then remarked with a sigh: “Poor young man !
I hope they allow him a nicer one at home ! ”
MTlwraith’s confidence in the power and
permanence of the National movement, not only
in Queensland but all over Australia, is complete.
He says that the Naval Defence Bill was rushed
through the other Houses of Assembly, backed by
the eclat of the distribution of titles, &c., in Eng-
land, but that, if the other colonies had had the
same chance of discussing the measure as the
Queenslanders have, then, beyond a question, it
would have been thrown out. And that is about
the everlasting truth of the matter.


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney.
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
.The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live,
'we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
The hapsburg double iron-framed
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos.
Sncl. The action is perfect check repeater.
Srd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
sth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
6th. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg,
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth. Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
9th. The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods ; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
: >":3 1
V
k&
as
a&
BEALE patent new hicix-arm sewing machine
VW-"'V
Special Qualities and Improvements.
Loose wheel; self loosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter ;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle ; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are will-
ing to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of. a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
m
■mj;
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may. be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely sus-
pended in the water., is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing, process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
careful. When the washing is done, the tub should
he wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
‘There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
llate greasy sediments. , T , ,
Catalogues and Price Lists Iree by Post.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482 48-f AND I>6 Oronu-GS'wn Svdnb'
Business Announcements.
WTON AND L AMR
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUF A CTIFRERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS,
Large stock of pianofortes by th
most Celebrated Makers.
NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
j Spring and O’Connell Streets.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. - The Economic;
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wardrobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Wakhstani >, with marble;
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 1G guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O'Connell and Spring Streets.
Austrian bent
WOOD
FURNITURE.
A Very Complete
Assortment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
m at
Ci ANYAS FOLDING
J COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. (id.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending’
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
0x 8, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality),' fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, Os. Od.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. Od.; 12x8, 12s. Od.;
12x10, 455. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
A
MERIC AN PATEN
SIIUT-UP
LOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
0 ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs.
Indian Long-Arm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
_T2
JC E CHESTS,
All Sizes,
from 275.
NEWTON & LAME.
XCELSI OK
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,,
various sizes, from 455.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,.
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O'Connell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON Jfc LAMB
Edwin J. Welch.
(The Man Who Found King, the Sole Sur-
vivor of the Burke and Wills’ Expedition. )
There is now living in Sydney the man who
discovered King, of the ill-fated Burke and Wills’
Expedition. He is one of the two survivors of
the Howitt Relief Party—Alfred W. Howitt, of
Gjppsland, is the other. Mr. Howitt is a son
of William and Mary Howitt, names well-known
in literature. Edwin J. Welch accompanied the
Howitt Expedition in the capacity of surveyor
and was unfortunate enough to lose the sight of
his right eye while taking a solar observation.
After adventures multitudinous enough to float a
second (1. P. R. -James down the stream of time,
with material gathered from a hundred perils and
hair-breadth ’scapes by flood and field, Edwin J.
Welch is meditating a descent on the land
of the facile Yankee with the ta]>er leer.
In America, Mr. Welch will lecture on all
things Australian and enthuse over the
land of the broiling sun and the bounding
drought and give the offspring of Salem Scudder
generally, a notion that this is hardly the be-
nighted couritry i nto which he can pitch interminable
lines of bound-books and shagreen spectacle-
cases. And E. -J. Welch is just the man for the
business. He can talk like a seraph—anyhow, we
shall be very much disappointed if any seraph
whom we may hereafter meet doesn’t warble just
in the manner of-E. J. Welch. In the second
place, his experience of Australian life is panoramic
and variegated, and his knowledge of human
nature is absolutely Balzacian. “ He’s been
there, ” and has, in the course of his stormy life,
rubbed shoulders with almost everybody ex-
cept Archibald Forbes’ special brands of
“ Kings that he had met,” for Mr. Welch
is an armour-plated and copper-fastened Repub-
lican. As a boy he spent from 1853 to 1857 on the
quarter deck of a man-of-war. He served in the
Baltic fleet as cadet arid midshipman under Sir
Charles Napier, was present at the bombardment
of Helsingfors and the capture of Bomarsund.
He was afterwards in the Black Sea under Sir
Edmund Lyons, engaged in landing troops for
service in the Crimea, and in the attack on Kertch
and the bombardment of Sebastopol For these
services Mr. W elch holds the Baltic medal, the
Turkish medal and the Crimean medal and
Sebastopol clasp. In 1857, being young “i’ th’
blood ” and allured by visions of good red gold,
he resigned the service of Neptune and struck
Bendigo and Forest Creek. His first digging ex-
perience was a dry damper and nothing but ruin
elearned ahead. ' He filled in the next two
years in a hopeful albeit laborious fashion
turning up the ground for the humble
potato in the dank and dripping fastnesses of Bul-
larook Forest, breaking quartz to fillup the in-
satiate stump-holes on the Clunes and Creswick
road, with outside amusements, done up in the
alluring form of side-shows for edging off the
green and yellow melancholy that drives its ser-
pent fang into the tender and budding hope of
lush uew-chumhood ; as, for instance, shepherd-
ing, sheep-washing, tailing cattle, chef-de-cuisine-
inf/ at a bush shanty in the distant wilds of
lUverina, and doing anything that wanted to be
done that looked like work. In 1859 a streak of
sunshine burst upon his rocky path, and he was
appointed meteorological assistant to Professor
Neumayer, at He Flagstaff Hill Observatory,
Melbourne. Two years after we find him sur-
veyor and second in command of the Burke and
Wills search party, led from Menindie northwards
by Alfred W. Howitt. On SeptemDr 15, 1861,
Mr. Welch turned off the line of route, and
found John King, the sole survivor of
the Burke and Wills catastrophe. To Welch was
entrusted the work of taking King to Melbourne,
and an exciting operation it was, for Burke’s
camel-man was time and again carried away by
the wild diggers of the fifties’ era. In 1862 Mr.
Welch went to England, but came back again
during that year, and left Melbourne for Queens-
land in the general exodus to the northern land of
Beulah that set in just at that time. He sur-
veyed and superintended the construction of a
line of telegraph from the Darling Downs to
Port Denison with many lateral branches ; he
opened some of the principal stations, and ulti-
maff'ly took the supervision of the entire system
as Inspector of Telegraphs for the colony of
Queensland. From this post he was transferred
to the Works Department, and in this capacity
built the bridge over the Pioneer River at
Port Mackay. In 1877, however, he gave up
the service altogether and founded the Mackay
Standard, which, after running two years, he sold
and then purchased and ran for three years the
St. George Standard in Western-Queensland.
After selling the latter, Mr. Welch again found
himself in Victoria, where he had had such a
rough experience in the early days. Here he
started a wild and hilarious career as a sort of
Earl Warwick of newspapers, of which he turned
out a whole catalogue in a very short while. Later
on he purchased the old Mansfield Guardian
(Vic.), regenerated it under the name of the
Mansfield Courier, made of it a smart little
paper, sold out arid came to Sydney, where he has
lived for some time with a keen piratical eye on
some half-dozen papers. Now he suddenly drops
journalism, takes to the lecture-field, and quits
Sydney for the City of the Golden Gate with a
caravan of Australian pictures. And as a lecturer
he ought to succeed, for he not only thoroughly
knows his subject, but he has the rare art of
putting himself en rapport with an audience. In
private life he’s as genial as a fortnight’s holiday,
and there is no surer way of undermining a man’s
probity than saying of him that he has an aversion
to E. j. Welch.
J. F. Lambie, the S.M. Herald’s Soudan
special, leaves the Hunter-street Morning Mis-
sionary to take a billet on the staff of the Mel-
bourne Age.
Sir Henry Parkes considers it a crime to
live in Melbourne and hold property in N. S.
Wales. The absenteeism is only one of degree.
We allow people living in England to hold pro-
perty in N. S. Wales and we do not tax them for
it. 'The English Government taxes us. _ It is the
old squabble of Ereetrade and and if
there is any truth in the doctrines of Cobden,
Parkes is making an elephantine fool of himself.
Dear Bulletin,— Can £25 Abigail and Tiger
Inglis explain why the N.S.W. railway officials received
instructions from head-quarters to gazette and record as
a goods train the special passenger which conveyed them
from Armidale to Glen Innes on their recent tour through
the North? The local railway officers were authorised
not to attach any goods trucks to this train, as the dis-
tance (61 miles) had to be got over in three hours. What
perversion of facts is this ? An explanation is also wanted
as to the reason an extra sleeping-car was put on the
down mail for their exclusive use when travelling from
Newcastle to Murrurundi last week. It is not to be won-
dered that our “ railways don’t pay ” when Ministers of
a jHire and honest Cabinet connive at such practices as
these. —Don.rv. April 25, ISSS.
Unconscious truthfulness—The Naval
Forced Bill.
A leading N.S.W. politician was seen
n King-street, Sydney, one afternoon last week
onsiderably inn-disposed.
W. H. L. Bailey, the Sunday News man,
is in London, and his eye-glass is the sensation of
the season. He intends lecturing on Australia.
The German authorities have issued orders
that in future the infantry soldiers are to grease
their feet instead of wearing socks. The grease
plan enables the men to march more easily and
show fewer blisters.
Says Sydney E. News : —“ The funeral
of the late Mrs. -—, of Newcastle, on Saturday,
was largely attended. Her death was due to in-
formation of the brain.” That is what the Ben-
nett boys will all die from.
Mr. Dailey is going to remove from Manly
to Darling Point. This is good news ; Darling
Point badly wants civilising. Only, unfortunately,
Mr. Dailey will have nobody to talk to there, ex-
cept Tom Butler of the Freeman’s Journal.
The other day Stipendiary Delohery sen-
tenced a woman to three months’ imprisonment for
being a worthless character. For disrespect to the
Bench (himself) he, it is alleged, gave her three
months additional. And yet they say Justice is
blind.
“ W. Armstrong ” writes to the Armidale
Chronicle (N.S.W.) to say that a Mr. Thomas
Daunt recently showed him a free pass which
carries him over the railways of the colony,
because he is an officer in the Salvation Army. To
simplify matters, Minister Sutherland might
abolish the obnoxious payment-for-railway-fares
system altogether.
A deputation from the Fruitgrowers’ As-
sociation asked Sir Henry Parkes to introduce a
short Bill to prevent the importation of fruit from
places known to be affected by disease. Too late !
The importation of the Ulster orange is now a
firmly established Freetrade industry, and num-
bers most of the prominent N.S.W. political
job-grubbers amongst its diseased-fruit purveyors.
There is, in Sydney, a fellow who groans
beneath the name of Smith. He, not long ago,
appropriated another name and joined it to that
of his forefathers with a hyphen. To anybody
who addresses him without the prefix he posts a
circular courteously drawing attention to the
error, and stating that he is now Mr. So-and-so-
Smith, and don’t you forget it.
Double or quits ! In the Irish political-
offence appeal cases the sentences have been con-
firmed and doubled. Father M‘Fadden had his
term of imprisonment raised from three to six
months, and Mr. Alex. Blaine, M.P., from four to
six, and the same ratio of increase was employed
in other cases where sentences were appealed
against. The Court of Appeal is turned into a
court of review. It no longer confirms or quashes,
it prosecutes. This is sheer malignancy.
A French resident in Sydney describes
Boulanger as merely the embodimmt of the war
of revenge fever against Germany, very popular
with the French army because a war with Ger-
many would bring the military to the front as a
ruling faction in the nation; absolutely without
striking ability of any kind, capable of being
brushed aside by any man of average power who
would phrase the same political anti-Teuton long-
ing ; coarse, mediocre; -an appealer to the
“bloody-shirt” sentiment, and a sort of Kiama-
ghost-raiser in French politics generally.
An old and respected Australian identity,
Mrs. Edward Cox, died at Penrith the other day.
The deceased lady was 83 years of age, and had
been 77 years in N.S.W. She was the third
daughter of the late Captain Brooks, who sailed
his-own vessel, the brig Spring, through Sydney
Heads in 1813, and soon afterwards settled down,
and built a residence at the corner of Hunter and
Pitt-streets, opposite the present Herald office.
Mrs. Cox had eight children, only three of whom
survive her, viz., Dr. J. C. Cox, of Sydney ; Mr.
It. W. Cox, of Mudgee; and the wife of Colonel
Macleod, now in Scotland. Her husband, Mr.
Edward Cox, died 20 years ago.
Dear Bulletin, —We have a plague of
mice here (Wardell, N.S.W.). Four of us caught
70 the other day with our hands in the open pad-
docks, finding them under bits of bark and stick.
It is most exciting sport (I really mean it), and
sometimes the catcher get* a nip from the catchee
which makes him hop. My tame emu (which is
now sft. 3in. high) eats them alive in dozens. I
gave him over 40 alive on one occasion, and then
he winked, as much as. to say he was only just be-
ginning. He gorged a piece of mother’s hand the
other day, and seemed to appreciate human flesh
highly.— Oyster Johnnie.
Under the terms of “Money ” Miller’s will
nearly all his freehold estates are to be auctioned.
One little lot will be 250 acres of land at Alphing-
ton, within four miles of Melbourne, for winch the
astute financier refused a syndicate’s offer of
0250,000. He originally secured four fifths of that
land at £2O per acre, and the balance at £BO per
acre. His Craigieburn estate of 1800 acres cost
him a lump sum of something over £14,000, and
will certainly fetch £135,000. Miles of land in
sundry localities will mostly realise a correspond-
ing profit on the original investment, but whether
the Miller family intend to hand over this un-
earned increment to the State (after deducting
compound intrest) is not quite as certain as it might
be. -
There is an article in one of the dailies on
silver-mining as an investment. It is pointed out
that in order to return anything like paying divi-
dends on original investment, the Broken Hill
Proprietary—which at £290 a share stands at a
capital value of £4,640,000— should pay £1,160,000
a year for seven years certain. At how-
ever, it pays only 8 per cent, instead of 20, and
the other Barrier country mines do not return
so much. Now, supposing all the mines were
to preserve a similar ratio between output
and dividend as that given by the Proprietary
Mine in the six months ending November, 1888,
viz a yield of 1,267,6990 z. of silver from which
accrued a profit of £120,201, £lOO,OOO of which
amount was paid in dividends, then a gross out-put
would be required of 34,227,8730 z. of silver annually
to yield the amount of net dividends named. Yet
the total silver production of the whole world, ac-
cording to the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica,” is only
between 50 and 60 million ounces yearly, at which
figure it has remained pretty steady for many years.
Notwithstanding this the rage for speculation,
judiciously fanned by unscrupulous mining sharks
and investment leeches, has boomed the prices up
to such a figure that in order to return anything
like a paying yield a gross output of silver equal
to more than half the entire production of the
globe would be required from the Barrier field
alone. From which it would appear that the recent
mining boom has been a gigantic imposition on
public credulity.


Amusements
A I E T Y THEATRE.
H Lessee ... ... Mr. Laurence Foley.
Sub-Lessees—Messrs. Rainford, Barry, & Herbert.
Stage Manager—Mr. James H. Rainford.
Secretary—Mr. Geo. Herbert.
Accountant—Mr. W. Boyd.
General Business Manager—Dan. Barry.
AN AUSTRALIAN DRAMATIC EVENT.
Messrs. Rainford, Barry and Herbert have the
honor to announce that they have leased the above
popular and elegant Theatre, and will inaugurate
their Dramatic Season by the production on
SATURDAY, MAY sth,
and Every Night to follow till further announced,
of the absorbingly interesting Australian Drama,
by the late Walter Cooper, entitled
FOILED ; OR THIRTY Y r EARS AGO.
Written by a gifted Australian Author. Played
by a Powerful and Carefully Selected Australian
Dramatic Company and which will be represented
as above announced before a generous and en-
lightened Australian Public. New, Beautiful, and
Appropriate Australian Scenery by Atla and
Assistants.
Doors open at 7.30; commence at 8. Admission
—Dress Circle and Orchestra Chairs, 3s. ; Stalls,
25.; Pit, One Shilling. Box plan at Nicholson’s.
Day tickets at Bohemian Club next Theatre, and
at Mrs. Kavanagh’s, opposite.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7 ; Performance 7.30 ; Carriages 10.45.
FAUST. FAUST. FAUST. FAUST.
Mb. Geo. Rignold as Mephistopheles.
Miss Kate Bishop as Marguekite.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Open at 7.15. Commence at 8. Carriages at 10.20.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
PRINCESS IDA,
or,
CASTLE ADAMANT.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s.
STANDARD THEATRE.
FIFTH WEEK
OF
FRANK SMITH’S BURLESQUE COMPANY.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS OF
- THE GREAT LONDON BURLESQUE,
VENUS AND ADONIS.
Most efficient Company, powerful Chorus, mag-
nificent Scenery. Popular prices—3s., 2a, and Is.
ORITE R I 0 N THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
IMMEDIATE and PRONOUNCED SUCCESS
Of r
ROBERT BUCHANAN’S
IRRESISTIBLE and SPARKLING COMEDY,
BACHELOR S
BACHELOR S.
. THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
BACHELORS,
with the
STRONGEST CAST IN AUSTRALIA.
Business Manager Mr. Joe Davis.
BRUNTOI’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY 34 Pitt Street.
BRISBANE Edward Street.
MELBOURNE Spencer Street.
Amusements.
Alhambra music hall,
George street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith
Stage Manager ... M r. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
THIRD YEAR. THIRD YEAR.
AUSTRALIA’S QUEEN.
absolutely and beyond all doubt the premier
MINHTBEL ATTRACTION ill AUSTRALIA.
MINSTRELSY OLIO and FARCE
EVERY EVENING.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls, Is., Balcony, 6d.
JgOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists,
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH, Director,
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
and
GARDEN PALACE.
Skating evert Afternoon and Evening.
The splendid Recreation Ground Band
will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
Coming Events i
April 28—Summer Hill Bicycle Sports.
May 24—Manchester Unity of Oddfellows Fete.
Catering on Reasonable Terms,
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
COOGEE PALACE, AQUARIUM, BATHS,
AND PLEASURE GROUNDS.
Gigantic Success of the Palace Skating Rink.
The Great Swimming Bath, 100 ft. long.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Entertainments Every Afternoon.
Open from 10 a. m. to 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling. Children naif-price.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“Evening News.” Address, “Tattersall’s," care
of George Adams. Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery )
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
mHEATRE ROYAL, KEMPSEY.
This commodious and well-fitted place of amuse-
ment, replete with all modern improvements and
adjoining the Royal Hotel, is now completed.
Dramatic and other professional companies can
be treated with on most liberal terms.
CARL BASCHE,
Proprietor.
LEA & PERRIN S'SAUCE
In consequence of Imitations of THU WORCKSTERSHIRS
SA UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea, and Perrins
have to. request that Purchasers see that the Isabel on every beltl*
bean their Signature thus^~
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE!
SAUCE is genuine .
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper , Label , Bottle anS
Stopper . Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ;. Crosse and
Blackwell , London , drV., <5rV. ; and ijv Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents: Mqntkotorb, Jqsbpb & Ca; Davu> Cohbn fc CdT. Sydney.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE!.
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spencer-street.
VISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
will find all n odern improvements, such as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large pub.ic-
room, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
and needle baths passenger elevator, electric
bells, telephone, and ail other hotel requisites, not
to be surpassed in Australia. Visitors can rely
Upon being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate.
: PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
White as the Driven Snow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Cleanser
GOLD-WATER SOAP.
Trade Mark—" IMPERIAL.”
All Grooers, City and Suburbs, Storekeepers.
The SYDNEY SOAP and CANDLE Co., Ltd.,
50 Clarence-street,
. Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
rriKciHj Brighton ou 1 ist. r •w,.
A T R SwS L n AH t^' D ? N f H ? B ' mqUGts ’ Su PPera, Private Dinner?, Evening Parties, etc., are
voTi can enilfv n°i ICe - m l? 6 Lai ’ se Dinil) ® HalL Besides having a most recherche
here a’i*n from fcl \ e balcome s the magnificent view of the sea and snrioundiDg country ;
comfortable can he frmnH l, • com Pf r 7’ B°°d wines in fact, everything that can possibly make one
de Ifdte at 1 oVlnct Hail thl H r | al a flrst ' c lf ss hotel - Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
visitors^om/ortabS^ k «Sffir H?wS?e fl fit £°t£SS y ? by K ™ STBit make her
Nirs.
KILNBINSTER, Clarendon Hotels
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
"Victoria,,
The CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, is
the most fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladies’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
Baths. Beverages Iced.
k S. faring S Cl,
PROPRIETORS,
Late of
BOYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
The PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, is the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEARING’S
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer is
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con-
sideration all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public Baths.
■Alcock s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out of
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
invalids.
J. 2. 2. Sfiiriig,
PROPRIETOR.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel is constructed on the most modern principles.
Large and well-ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suits, s of Apartments, Best of
Comfort of Guests first consider tion, position most central, Hydraulic Lift for Guests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. GURTIN, Proprietor
Business Announcements.
V-
m
m
|3ARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Trade, Mark~“ The Greenwich Observatory.”
Specially prepared from Ripe Fruit, and is tlie best o
all Fruit Salts.
health-giving, meshing, invigorating,
A Preventive of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache
Heartburn, Indigestion and Sea Sickness. ’
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Get it only at Grocers, Chemists, and Storekeepers.
Protrietor :
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., Greenwich, England,
Agents :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
P&fjgQglg* GBiIFE g^LIME.
THE
“PLUM
RAZOR.”
1P&
THE
“PLUM
RAZOB."
FOR private use is unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground, set ready for use Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee it for two (2) years. Price, 10/6 each. Send P.O. Order.
One of the finest Russian Leather Graduating Strops, 7/6 ; a Tin of the best Razor Paste, 1/-; Stick of
Transparent Shaving Soap, or a Jar of Non-irritant Shaving Soap, specially prepared by ourselves to
suit the climate, 1/-; good Shaving Brush from 1/-; a real Badger Shaving Brush, 3/6; Bottle of Bay
Rhum or Yaddo Water for use on the face after shaving, 3/6. '
CS3-A.IO- staad. -^ITSETEIIiT,
Fotosoi Hair-dressing Saloon, SSI! Geom-stmt, Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
MaeaAAarOil
t.A* been known for nearly 100 years as the best and safest preserver, restorer and beautifier of
•Sl&® b ;man hair; it is warranted free from any lead or mineral Ingredients, of w hicb most haij
•Wkwxs are composed and which ruin the health (vide Medical papers), will keep fresh and
rweet in the hottest climates and has a delicate and fragrant bouquet of roses; St prevents hair
foiling off or turning grey, strengthens weak hair, eradicates scurf or dandriff. and ren.Ws the
piair seft, silky, curly ana glossy ; it also stimulates the growth of whiskers and mo- staches i
It t® especially recommended for children as forming the basis of a beautiful bead of Uair and
M also be had in »
GOLDEN COLOUR.
jrWch. »ft*r ejrpst time and trouble, lias ?>een f*r*eia!)y prepared
jMWrenaaiJ fair or grejr-haiml adult* Si/*s St. «.• ?*.; fjKciSj
jv*. 6(1.; and di witiie ? hat size, 2i.«
the hi* of
ettlsa, aqn&l i
nlitsn-!i*lr*S
i Soar imallc
ROWLANDS’ KALYOOR is a healing and MKfreahfaig propagation for
.he race, hands ami arras; it eradicates freckles, fan, sunburn, eczema, redness and rough nes*
the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., au;*l produces a beautiful fend delicate
complexion.
ROWLANDS’ OCONTO whitens the teeth, prevents «n& arrests decay,
SfSSfirX!? 8 > © ? uras » an d S ive3 a delightful fragrance to the breath, Ask anywhere for
KUyy LANDS* articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid spurious imitations unde r
nmilar names.
Wholesale and Retail Aarento— Kixiott Bbos,, and B. Psosshb S 5 do,, Sydney.


Business A nnouncements.
mHE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
X MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BRACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES OE INTEREST for long term
deposits.
B INK DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under three years.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upward'.
NOTWITHST aNDING fall in Bank Rates, this
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing
£7 per cent, for 3 years A With Gash Bonus if renewed
£6 „ „ 12 months lat the rate of £1 per cent per
£5 „ „ 6 months ( annum, or withdrawable on
£4 „ „ 3 months J notice n terms of prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “ TEN MINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post Free.
The Company solicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments over term ; of years.
Chief Offices: Australasian Chambers, 8, 10 and
12 Hunter-street, George-sffreet, Sydney.
UK ini HITT
i sub »suns.
FRESH CONSIGNMENTS of the above well-
known brand show that it still possesses the fine
qualities so greatly appreciated by lovers of a
GOOD SUE or a GOOD CHEW,
THE ARMY AND NAVY TOBACCO
is the largest plug and the best value for 6d. in
the market.
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG and AITKEN.
None Genuine unless branded ARMY & NAVY.
Vulcan Navy
in s’s, B’s, and 10’s. This old established and
favourite brand ALWAYS IN STOCK. Good
line for retailers.
Vulcan Mixture,
Jib. PACKETS AMERICAN.
SOLE AGENTS, CRAIG AND AITKEN.
AMERICAN CUT TOBACCOS.
LONG CUT and RUBY in Rb. PACKETS,
GUARANTEED FINEST QUALITY.
CIGARS!
To those who enjoy a Fragrant Cigar, we recom-
mend our
SPECIALLY RIPOSTED LINES,
ASK FOR
U and I
Extra Quality, A MAGNIFICENT CIGAR.
Our own Importations of
HIGH LIFE,
EL TORO,
BREVAS,
SPORTS, &c.
Wholesale to the trade.
MANILLAS A SPECIALITY !
CRAIG and AIT KEN,
IMPORTERS OF ALL KINDS OF
HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
Saloons Fitted With Every Necessary,
COMPETENT HAIRDRESSERS ENGAGED
FOR TOWN OR COUNTRY.
Fleyse pyy Attention to the Address :
CRAIG & AITKEN,
WHOLESALE
lota, Cigar, and Cigarette Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF
H VIRDRESSE RS’ REQUISITES,
PERFUMERY, , ,
FANCY GOODS, &c.
Sole Agents for the
ARMY & NAVY Tobacco & CIGARETTES.
Country Orders Promptly Despatched.
TERMS CASH.
Price Lists on Application.
A Special Invitation.
We especially invite a tr al by alltho e sufferers
from kidnry and liver complaints -who have failed
to obtain relief from other remedies and from
doctors. Nature’s great remedy, dr. bell’s
bitters, has effected cures in nraDy obstinate
cases. It acts at once on the kidneys, liver and
bowels, cleansing the system of all pononous
humours and restoring a healthy condition to those
important organs. Do not be discouraged, but
try it.
Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cod Ld er _ Oil with Hyio-
phosphites, acts both as food an i medicine. It not onl t v
gives flesh and strength by virtue of its own nutritious
Properties, but creates an appetite for food that builds up
the wasted body. Read the following Scorns Emul-
sion is, in my opinion, an excellent and valuable com-
pound.’ I have given it to consumptive patients, and
have been delighted with the results obtained. It is
pleasant to the taste, and can be borne by the most
sensitive stomach. —E. A. Rodway, M.D., Butter-hnowle,
Darlington, England.” Any Chemist can supply it at
4s. 6d *
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to he had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
A Lovely and Delicate Complexion.— This is ob-
tained bv using Rowlands’ Kalydor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms ; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skm,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gntty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands
artmles. jj o MORE HARD TIMES.
If vou will stop spending so much on fine clothes, rich
food and style, buy good, healthy food, cheaper and better
clothing, get more real and substantial things of life
everv way, and especially stop the foolish habit of em-
ploving expensive quack doctors or using so much of the
vile humbug medicine that does you only harm, but put
your trust in that simple, pure remedy Dr. Soule s Amen-
can Hop Bitters, that cures always at a trifling cost, and
you will see good times and have good health.—
“ Chronicle.”
GUILTY OF WRONG.
Some people have a fashion of confusing excellent
remedies with the large mass of “ patent medicines,” and
in this they are guilty of a wrong. There are some
advertised remedies fully worth all that is asked for them,
and one at least we know of : Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters. The writer has had occasion to use the Bitters in
just such a climate as we have most of the year in Bay
City, and has always found them to be first-class and
reliable, doing all that is claimed for them.—Tribune.”
Colonial Maladies.— The Colonists of N.S.W. are to be
congratulated on two grounds. First, that they inhabit a
land where disease, as a rule, prevails in a mild and cur-
able form, and secondly, because the majority have ready
to hand a remedy that does away with the doctor and
medicine chest. This important Medicine was discovered
by Mr. Richard Freeman in 1844, and named by him Chloro-
dyne, which medicine continues to maintain its supremacy
all over the World as a special and specific remedy for the
treatment and cure of Diarrhma, Dysentery, Cholerine,
Malaise, Hysteria, pain of every kind, Nervous affections,
Gout, Asthma, Consumption, Coughs, Colds and fever.—
Sold everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist upon
qaving “ Freeman’s” only. Reject substitutes as they are
worthless. Trade Mark, an Elephant.
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. ' This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
A Bilious Headache.
Is easily cured if you use the right medicine,
which is dr. bell’s bitters. The headache so
very uncomfortable and the medicine so cheap ; do
r ot delay, but call at your druggist’s and get a
bittle.
tea and eastern merchants,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
’indL^bvZ
II
I3iT3DE3ITTS
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for Neiy South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, including Machinery, Imported
Leathers &c ; and of the following Special Lines PEERLESS GLOSS, SATIY POLISH, YITSIA Y BLACK-
IXG; Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents Executed on ravoiiraldc.Teriiis.
Business Announcements.
ROTS
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day ; a w;n°glastful f„r an adult,
smaller quantity for chi d en.
For general Deblicy, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dande ion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys is more Reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One v ineglass two cr three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quan ity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
W ith thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Enters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faPhfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,— I have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them. —
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, Augnst 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned:—
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indiges’ion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
hordbly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been msy take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dpar sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
»Y»XvM
KIHMi
iiJSS
-
3/6
Lilli,
JOSEPHSON'S OINTMENT.
By Bov ai, Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD. BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
he as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from ale Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,-I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen :
Statutory Declarations.
“ I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEaNE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
“ Declared at Sydney, 12th August, 1881, before
me.
“ )Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P.
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANE
BITTERS, prepared solely by
EDW. ROW and COMPANY.
The Melbourne Age has opened a Sydney
office at 91 Pitt street, with Mr. Gabriel Mont
gomery as local agent.
Here is an eloquent fact—J. P. O’Connor’s
paper, The Star, organ in London of the Irish
Home Rule party, which has only been started a
few months, circulated, at latest dates, 135,250
copies daily.
GETTING EVEN
Midgely who spent several hundred dollars for theatre tickets last season, without
seeing the stage once, on account of the high hat nuisance, adopts a scheme for revenge
this year. He lets his hair grow, and combs it up. — Puck.
“ That veteran ” is dead again. John Sin-
clair, for some years past a guard on the express
train, died at Albury on Tuesday last. He was
formerly a trooper in the 11th Hussars, served witli
his regiment through the Crimean campaign,
fought at the battle of the Alma, and also in
India and New Zealand. He was deservedly re-
spected, and never once even hinted that he had
been at Waterloo or Salamanca.
“What’s become of Stanley?” Ask Sir
Alfred Stephen.
A correspondent enquires how it came to
pass that Judge Windeyer, in defiance of the
spirit of M'Laughlan’s Act prohibiting judges
from taking part m the hearing of appeals against
their own decisions sat on the bench m appeal in
-the divorce case Dorn v. Dorn and Nicholson.
The Mount Morgan (Q.) Gold Mine is
divided into a million shares, each of which is now
worth over £lO. That figure, however, is far from
warranted by present dividends. The new chlori-
nation works, approaching completion, will prob-
ably more than double the returns; but to all
appearance the body of ore being operated on at
present constitutes the “ fancy stuff” of the mine
so far as explored.


Business Announcements.
OUR
NEW ADDRESS
5 Doors from Liverpool-street
♦
THE ONLY
musical Dinnon
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
BEG to return thanks to their numerous
patrons and friends for past favors,
and, at the same time, to inform them that
they have opened their new establishment
at above address with a new and complete
stock of
Musical Instruments
and all kinds of fittings, in fact it is the
grandest and most superb show in Australia.
We have specially imported over 750 new
instruments for our new premises, and can
safely say that no other house can equal us.
Our line in
AGGORDEONS
is something marvellous.
o
PATENT BRASS NOTED ACCORDKONS,
10/6, 12/6, 15/-. 17/6, 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-,
50/-, &c.
PATENT STEEL NOTED AC CORDEONS,
30/-. 32/6, 35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 4"/-, 45/-, and 50/-.
PATENT BROAD REEDED ACCORDEONS,
25/-, 27/6, 30/-. 35/-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, up to £5 10/-.
PATENT GERM vN SILVER ACCORDEONS,
30/-, 32/6-, 35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, up to £4.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/=, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German..
~ steel notes
35/-.
50/-.
We have a special line of splendid Organ Con-
certinas in wood box, lock and key, complete
for 21/-.
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen In Ane
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30/-, up to £l5 15/-,
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE:—
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
6, 6 or 7 ~ „ „ 4 10/-.
VIOLIN STRINGS.
Celebrated Zamplnanl's at 6d., 9d., and 1/-, each
AMERICAN BANJO STRINGS,
Celebrated Ewington's at 6d., 9d., and 1/-, eaob.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SiMONSEN,
658 George Street,
SYDNEY.
'iKmma hah
SYMPTOM*.
rallowness of
Complexion
Lassitude
Pain in Eight ide
Indigestion
General Debility,
etc.,
Hot and Cold
Flushes, Dropsy,
etc, etc, etc
The liver is the
largest gland in the
body. It is the
great filterer of the
body. All the blood
passes through it to
be refined or poluted
according to the
condition of that
organ. If, by reason
of disease, whether
it be what is
termed Hot, Cold,
Inflamed, Ulcerous,
Obstructed, Jaun-
diced, or whatever
not —it fails to per-
form its true func-
tions, disease and
debility promptly
follow. With a
sound, healthy stomach and pure blood, the liver
will never become diseased. The evidences of its
existence are numerous. Exhaustion, even upon
slight effort—going up hill or up stairs ; costive-
ness of the bowels; a sense of weight or pain
across the lower part of the chest; a greenish hue
of the skin ; sometimes liyer spots on the surface;
burning palms and heat in the soles of the feet;
frequently a dry cough; furred tongue; saltish
taste in the mouth; dull headaches and very
heavy eyelids. Those who suffer from Liver
Complaint are familiar with one or more of the
symptoms above described. A weak, defective
stomach and a bilious state of the same, are the
prime causes of this disease. Any remedy that
will tone up the stomach, cleanse the blood of its
impurities, give strength, vigor and action to the
constitution, will remove the exciting causes and
effect a cure of this common disease. No medi-
cine is st) well adapted to remove it, produce pure
blood, and thereby relieve all the organs from the
terrible effects of Liver Complaint, as belr’s
bitters. It has no equal in all cases of Liver
Complaint.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
NEW SOUTH W ALES AND QUEENSLAND
££T None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown
in the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisonous
stuffs made to imitate the above.
LICHTNER & CO..
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
IPli.otog'ra.pla.ic Z3eq/u.lslte&.
Instructions in Photography
FREE OF CHARGE
To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit!
AT EITHER
3 2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES' BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES AMD PRICE LISTS FREE.
lichtneiT & CO.
Business Announcements.
EDWARD HANLAN'S VERDICT.
Sydney, N. S. W., Feb. Ist, 1888.
Not feeling well, I procured some of Mar-
shall’s “ Tonic Nervine,” having been advised
to lake it. The proof greatly exceeded my
expectation, and I am now thoroughly convinced
of it s grand staying and strengthening properties.
(Signed)
CU^_
Kx-Champion Oarsman of the World
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
W
E beg to notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES!
M. MELACHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. CADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
MARSHES, also FINEST BRANDS of CMS,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices I
F3T Note this Pkice !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
“ SESOSTRIS ” Brand—in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHILLINGS EACH !
KS" By buying from us you will save at least
25 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
11 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Savings Bank).
GBD.GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BXtXAR PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS G LdToHMIDT & OOi,
231 CLARENCE-STREET.
GBD
GrSD.
Wehaye Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
WHOLESALE < ONLY^ BgUlar Shipments oomin * forward
rpHOMAS BUCKLAND.
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln,
ii ii Langland’s Foundry Co., Melbourne, Vio.
Hotels
GLOBE HOTEL, Albury.
THE Undersigned, having become Lessee of
the above well-known Hotel, begs to inti-
mate to the Travelling Public that every atten-
tion will be given to the management to ensure
comfort and the very Best Accommodation pro-
curable in the colonies.
Private Suites of Rooms for Families.
The Cuisine Department will be under the
superintendence, of Mrs. Solomons.
Sample Rooms, Billiards, Hot and Cold Baths
Reading and Smoking Rooms. Magnificent bal-
cony and every convenience.
All Liquors best brands. N.S.W. and Vic-
torian papers. Letters and telegrams promptly
attended to. Night porter.
L. SOLOMONS, Proprietor.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
Alfred Lister, Proprietor. \
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies
Replete with every comfort and convenience
modern times for the travelling public.
FOR SALE.— Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office. '
Matthew Arnold, the accomplished English
critic and poet, has died suddenly of heart-
disease, aged 64.
Among the grotesque masked balls re-
cently given in Paris was one called a njedical and
surgical ball. It looked as if the wax figures in a
museum of anatomy had all come to life and begun
to dance. There was one man dressed from head
to foot m skin-tight black stuff, on which was
painted in white a complete and perfect skeleton.
Another was a similar representation of the veins
and arteries. A third had his face, neck, and
arms painted in exact imitation of a case of small-
pox- , Others displayed semblances of other hor-
rible diseases, malformations, and disfigurements.
Nor were the ladies—for ladies also attended this
ghastly gathering—a whit behind in the startling
display. A more utterly gruesome and re-
pulsive scene than this entire ball presented has
seldom been seen.
The other evening in the N. S. W. Assembly
it suddenly occurred to Premier Parkes that he
had been using too many “I’s” in liis speech, so
lie stopped short and informed the House im-
pressively that whenever he used the pronoun “I”
he referred of course to the Government. What
a humorist! Parkes is the same man who last
week coarsely told a recalcitrant supporter that
he was only squealing “because he could not find
a teat to suck ” —like the other little pigs of the
Ministry.
Rufus Clarke, who adorns the office of
Minister of Justice in N.S.W., really blushed the
other night. A member of the Assembly said
that he would take the opinion of M‘Millan on
any question in preference to that of Clarke,
whereupon the gentle M ‘Elhone insinuated that
Clarke’s knowledge of one subject was greater
than that of M‘Millan and the whole of the
Y.M.C. A. tribe put together. Members roared,
Clarke blushed, and immediately sought refuge in
the Ministers’ room.
The notorious Isaac Kalloch, sometime
Mayor of San Francisco (and father of the man
who murdered Charles de Young), has died in
obscurity.
Honour has been sent to prison. Honour
among thieves.
Mr. Theodore Bevan, the New Guinea
explorer, tells his friends some strange tales of his
New Guinea experiences. One of them relates in
part to a half-bred dingo which some kindly native
souls bestowed upon him with a fixed idea that he
would like to eat it. Mr. Bevan has been naming
mountains after all sorts of Sydney people. Mr.
Critchett Walker has a mountain named after him,
and so have “Ughtred Joseph” and “Beryl
Joseph. ’ But who on earth is Ughtred Joseph ?
Ugh !
Coranentirg on the recent attempt to
h >at, a fresh Panama Canal Loan, an English
trade journal caustically says :
“ The French authorities refuse to consent to De
Lesseps’ new proposal. His memory will go down to
posterity with anathema. Years ago he promised to
complete the Canal, with the then capital, in 1883. With
the additional loan of 1885, which only realised 360 francs
fora 1000-franc certificate, he again had the audacity-to
tell the poor, saving, hard-working French investor that
it would be finished in 1887. January 1, 1888, found
this venerable Frenchman relying upon his Suez reputa-
tion to still further appeal to the unfortunate ones who
have sunk their all, to still further sink their credit for
his benefit; and all the man offers is his promise that
the Canal will be finished in 1890—’91—’92—’93—1900—
2000, &c. We know the actual condition of affaire there,
both from an engineering and financial point of view, and
are ready to convince doubters. The Times correspond-
ent has his labour in vain. The French will never finish
this work. The children of unborn Frenchmen will curse
the memory of the most unprincipled financial scoundrel
of the nineteenth century—if. de Lesseps
Millions upon millions have been squandered, and billions
will be sunk in the maelstrom unless his foolhardiness be
not stopped. ... In the name of humanity we say
stop the works !
Beltsville, Prince George Co., Md.,
May ‘26tb, 1886.
Maryland, My Maryland.
* • * Pretty Wives,
Lovely daughters and noble men. ”
“My farm lies in a rather low and miasmatic
situation, and
“My wife!”
“Who was a very pretty blonde ! ”
Twenty years ago, became
“Sallow!”
“Hollow-eyed ! ”
“ Withered and aged ! ”
Before her time, from
“Malarial vapors, though she made no particular
complaint, not being of the grumpy kind, yet
causing me great uneasiness.
“ A short time ago I purchased your remedy for
one of the children, who had a very severe attack
of biliousness, and it occurred to me that the
remedy might help my wife, as I found that our
little girl, upon recovery had
“Lost!”
“ Her sallowness, and looked as fresh as a new
blown daisy Well the story is soon told. My
wife, to-day, has gained her old-timed beauty with
compound interest, and is now as handsome a
matron (if I do say it myself) as can be found in
this country, which is noted for pretty women.
And I have only Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters to thank for it.
“The dear creature just looked over my
shoulder, and says ‘ I can flatter equal to the days
of our courtship,’ and that reminds me there might
be more pretty wives if my brother farmers would
do as I have done.”
Hoping you may long be spared to do good, I
thankfully remain,
C. L. JAMES,


“A Policeman’s Life is not a happy one.”
No person who has been privileged to witness
the performance of the popular “Pirates of
Penzance ” is likely soon to forget the scene in
which the Chief Policeman, who, in answer to re-
peated entreaties, replies in the affirmative, but,
notwithstanding, is slow in making a move in the
required direction When a petty thief is being
pursued through the street, a free fight or drunken
row occurs, who is so often conspicuous by his
absence as the policeman on the beat ? There may
be reasons adduced, however, to account for this
lack of energy. Some of our guardians of the
public peace are not in robust health, the exigencies
of the service having had the effect of causing a,
feeling of lassitude, and even of pains, indicating
positive disease, as in the case of Mr. Alexander
B. Walker, sub-inspector of police in Young,
N.S.W., who, under date 6th March, 1888, writes:
—“During the past four years I have suffered
very much from disorder of the liver. In conse-
quence I was afflicted with indigestion, acidity
and. distension of the stomach after meals, with
at times entire loss of sleep. I tried a number of
proprietary, medicines, but received no benefit
from them. Three months ago it being highly
recommended, I was. persuaded to try Warner's
safe cure.. After the first bottle I felt greatly
improved in health, and now, after taking twelve
bottles, I am perfectly well and free from my
dreadful liver complaint, which had lasted so
long. ” If all who are thus troubled would imitate
Mr. Walker they would find themselves able to
come to the front as promptly as their friends
could desire.*
GLORIOUS NEWS FROM AMERICA.
The eminent physicians of America are recom-
mending the Anheuser Busch St. Louis Lager
Beer as being the best tonic for building up a weak
constitution. The same can be said for the
physicians of Australia. This pure and un-
adulterated Beer, we wish to impress upon the
public mind, is the purest Lager Beer brewed in
the world.
It is made from pure hops and malt only by the
Anheuser Busch Brewing Association of Sr,. Louis,
U.S.A., who spare n > expense in procuring the
best material from which to brew it, and whose
famous brewery affords # every facility for its per-
fect manufacture. It is in the interest of health
and temperance that the famous St. Louis Lager
Beer should be drunk in preference to any other
brand. Be sure you get the genuine, as we hear
of imitations. Sold by all wine and spirit mer-
chants.*
The Referee
A Parliamentary return shows that no less
than £42,074 Bs. lOd. has been got out of the
'general public by the managers of the N.S.W.
Association ground in ten years. All there is to
show for this enormous sum is a grand-stand, the
exorbitant charge to which makes it pretty well
prohibitive to the general public, and a white ele-
phant in the shape of a pavilion. The balance-
sheet shows a deficit —as it will at the end of the
next ten years if the same people are allowed to
handle this portion of the public’s estate. The
act of dedication prevents the trustees from ex-
pending a single penny outside the Association
Ground, yet they have not only got rid of the
handsome total revenue —£33,429 14s. 9d. —but are
actually in debt £8644 14s. Id.
The English foot-
oallers are a heavy lot,
averaging 12 stone. One
giant stands 6ft. 3|ir.
and weighs 15 stone. He
can’t come up to the
only Bonnor, however,
in either particular.
* * *
“ Pendragon ” in
the Referee, heaps ridi-
cule upon Burke’s list of
alleged performances, and
says it is an extraordin-
ary thing that Burke
should, as the Irish-
English-American stated
to an Australian reporter,
have been amateur and
professional champion of
England without his
(Pen’s) knowing it.
• * *
Next Saturday after-
noon Hanlan and Kemp
meet on the Parramatta
to row for £lOOO and
“ the world’s champion-
ship.” On performances
it is 10 to 1 on Hanlan,
as Kemp has invariably
shown himself soft when
pressed, and it remains to
be seen if he has patched
up his weak spot. “Beach
knows what he is about,”
is the popular cry, but
William may be as far
out here as he was in
England, when he was
daily on the river with
Kemp, whose wonderful
trials he docked and—
over whom he duly drop-
ped a “ pot.” However,
Mudgee Haynes’ tip is
the safest to go on. In
one part of his paper lie
says “Kempshould win,”
and in another “ he sees
in his mind’s eye Hanlan
doing up the Australian. ’
* * *
The Chinee is not
without competition in
his peculiar blanches of
industry in Melbourne.
After devastating half
the poultry-yards in Col-
tlingw'ood, a large dog fox
w'as caught in the act the
other night, and promptly
killed.
* * *
Dear auld Donald
Dinnie is challenging
Miller to all sorts of
things, now that the Pro-
fessor is in America, and
asks, “ Why did he leave
Australia?” To get aw*ay
from Donald, very likely.
* 2 *
u
Broken on a wffieel
stamped on at the bicycle
sports.
« * »
| |Bush, the half-caste
athlete, has gone over
to his ancestors, the
native kings of Narrabri
(N.S.W.). When con-
sumption laid him low
his black mother nursed
him in the old camp at
Narrabri, where his boy-
ish days were passed;
those who shouted loudly
when he made his famous
leap of 23ft. tin. at
"Botany cared little how
he died.
The Association Ground trustees will, for
the future, allow wheelmen and others to use the
ground at a charge of 20 per cent, on the gross
takings. The Bulletin’s constant digs at their
exorbitant charges have therefore borne fruit,
•
It K possible that an Australian eight will
go to England next year. N.S.W., by the way,
can never put forth the full strength of her eight-
oar rowing force until more encouragement is
given to pair-oar and four-oar pulling.
• « *
The expression “dead bird ” originated in
the old Sydney days of pigeon-shooting when the
birds were thrown out of a spring-trap. At a
match near Sydney a. certain “sportsman” was
dropping bis birds with marvellous precision when
his cap napped, but to the mrprue of the on
ookers down flopped the bird. Enquiry showed
that the trapper had been “ squared ” and was
sending up stiff ’uns every time. The saying
“dead bird’’for a sporting certainty was much
used at the time, and has now been revived after
years of disuse.
» «
At Warrnambool meeting some consistent
running and queer betting took place between
Blue and White and St. Louis. For the Wan-
goom Handicap the market was evens against
Blue and White (at first 3to 1); 10 to 1 against
St. Louis (at first 6to 4). Blue and White beat
St. Louis by a short head, but was disqualified for
crossing another horse, to the disappointment of
St. Louis’ party. For the Railway Stakes Blue
and White again beat St. Louis by a short head.
This time the winner started at 5 to 1, after open-
ing at 20 to 1, so both stables were satisfied, pre-
sumably. But how about the public ?
* * »
Laing and Slaviu had a mill
For a hundred pounds,
Did their level best until
They had fought five rounds ;
In the sixth a thump from Slavin
Settled Laing, and so he gave in.
* * # •
Clark, of Melbourne, showed a clean pair
of heels to T. Hayes, of Castlemaine, in a half-
mile race. There was a “ pony ” a side at issue.
* » •
Larry Foley proposes to start a new
enterprise in Sydney sometime within the next
fortnight, in the shape of an athletic club, under
whose auspices boxing, calisthenics, and other
departments of muscular exertion will be taught
by professional gentlemen of great size and lm-
AN UNSAVOURY "POLITICAL SITUATION.”
“Just as the Premier was about to begin his address there was a sudden commotion in one portion of
the building. It was ascertained that the noise arose from the fact that some evil-minded person had thrown
some offensive material into the room. During the confusion which ensued, which lasted a few minutes,
there were loud cries of “ Turn him out,” and one person in a very excited tone said to the chairman, “ I
beg to move that you send that man to gaol.”- Report of Parlies’ speech at Bathurst.
A BOTTLE OF DISINFECTANT WILL HEREAFTER BE PACKED UP AMONG SIR
HENRY'S TRAVELLING REQUISITES.
mense vigour. The retired champion will him
self take a leading part in the management, and
the science which he has exhibited while wiping
up the dust with many a huge antagonist
will be imparted to new aspirants at
a reasonable figure; and the other professors will
include the leading members of the hard-fighting
crowd who have made Foley’s establishment
famous. The fee for membership in the new club
will be 10s. per month, and a number of the le id-
ing gentlemen of Sydney will form the committee
and supervise the proceedings.
* * #
An old rowing-man can only remember
one occasion on which the favourite in the Oxford-
Cainbridge boat-race was beaten. That was when
West, of Christ Church, stroked the Oxfo cl crew.
Starting at a stroke of 44 to the minute, lie demoral-
ised his antagonist-: at the outset, and triumphed,
though the odds were sto 1 against. In all other-
years the betting has effectually foreshadowed the
issue, and in 1877, when the odds were even at the
start, the result was a dead-heat.
* * *
The most terrible warning against the
egregious folly of attempting to amass wealth by
betting on horse-racing is to be found in a careful
analysis _of the tips given by sporting writers to
the public. There is nothing like the cold logic
of figures to clinch an argument.
* * •
Pearl of wisdom from the San Francisco
Argonaut :
“ Sincerely, most simerely, do we hope that America’s
biff Irish slogger, John L. Sullivan, may be so beaten by
Mitchell, the Englishmen, that he will never disgrace and
dishonour this country, more by his unwelcome presence.
Boston may slobber over him, the Prince of Wales may
make him his companion and 'friend, plug-uglies anil
prize-fighters may run after him, if he should commit
murder in the prize-ring some fool of a female would
doubtless desire to ms rry him, and some humbug of a
priest would endeavour to save his worthless soul if he
has one. But all the same, we look upon the prize-ring as.
a most vile institution, and a slogger as a most vile .char-
acter. It is our conviction that,Sullivan is a coward, and
our impression that Mitchell will thrash him. Perhaps
the wish is father to the thought. Our prize-ring bullies
—thank God !—are never American, generally English or
Irish.”
* * *
The Referee’s report of the Sullivan-
Mitchell fight said : “Sullivan’s body, right eye,
and mouth are more punished than Mitchell’s. . .
Sullivan as a ‘terror’ is completely exploded.”
Quite in accordance with Bulletin reading of the"
bare account cabled. After the fight Sullivan
hinted that lie was getting too old for heavy busi-
ness, which is sheer bosh, for the American’s
friends declare that he is only 28 years of age.
Anyway, he is very little older than Mitchell.
* *■ •
Jake Kilrain, the American pugilist, offered
to present Torn Lees, the Australian, with £lOO if
the latter would box him, Kilrain using 3oz. gloves
and Lees ioz., for £lOOO a side, Kilrain had, it is
said, become irritated at Lees having challenged
Mitchell when the latter was disabled after his
fight with John L. Sullivan. Lees replied that
he would fight Kilrain if the latter (who is 16st.)
would come down to his weight (list.) Kilrain
gracefully declined, and Lees has now challenged
Jack Dempsey.
• * *
The Sydney pugilists have been informally
fighting among themselves, and then taking
assault cases into Court. Mr. Fogarty points out
that Mr. Foley hit him, n.pd appeals to the laws
of his country for redress. It is the old gate-
money trouble under a new aspect. Mr. Fogarty
lives by being hit; he gets his clothes by being
hit, also his boots; the whole duty of his life, in
fact, consists in being hit, and Mr. Foley recog-
nised this fact and hit him. Why Mr. Fogarty
should object to this it is difficult at first to
imagine unless he dislikes being hit out of office
hours ; but then the idea suggests itself that under
ordinary circumstances Mr. Fogarty gets hit and.
is paid for it, while in the present case he was hit,
gratis. This probably explains the difficulty—it
is the old dismal, mercenary job once again.
Mr. Salomons has returned from Europe
to_ rejoin his friend Garrett in the N.S. Wales
Eighteenth Claws Ministry.
The Sydney Domain Gardens are closed
every night before (5 o’clock and the public are
turned out like dogs. The keeper wants his tea !
He lives at Balmain. So the public have to clear
out_ of the Gardens at sundown in order that
Smith or Jones, whoever he may be, shall catch
his boat. “Wretches swing that jurymen may
dine. ”
“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. Queen’s
Birthday Cup, May 24 ; 2000 Subscribers at 10s.
each. First Horse, £400; Second, 200; Third,
£lOO ; Starters, £lOO ; Non-starters, £lOO (divided
amongst them), and 50 Cash Prizes at £2 each.
Also The Queen’s Birthday Cup, 3000 Subscribers
at 20s. each. First Horse', £1,500 : Second, £OOO ;
Third, £300; Starters, £300; Non-starters, £3OO
(divided amongst them): The Winter stakes, run
dune 11th. 4000 Subscribers at 10s. each. First
Horse, £BOO ; > econd, £250 : Third, £l5O ; Starters,
£250 ; Non-starters, £250 (divided amongst them),
and 100 Cash Awards at £3 each. For further
particulars write for one of our Yearly Cards,
which are well worth keeping for the information
they contain. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please registrar all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result.
Address “Australia, "careof Mr. HughDalveen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office,
George'Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, I88S). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
L‘200.. Ilis reason for doing so is this—-where there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a.conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
mo\ ed with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood, that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
lie claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining* their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course" of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to ail. Charges moderate. H. J
Speer, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to S p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
The City Provident Dispensary, Go3George-street, Brick’
field Hill, between Liverpool and Goulburn streets. Advice
and Medicine, Two Shillings and Sixpence. The Resident
Medical Officer (a Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
and Surgeon, registered in Great Britain, New Zealand,
and by the Medical Board of New South Wales; late of the
Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, and University College
Hospital, London). Sees Patients daily from 9 a.m. to
10 p.m.; Sundays and Holidaysfi to 10, Evenings 7to 9.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and saltwater baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and- buggies for hire.


Belle
Hotels.
Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE,
Houses, Botanical Gardens,
and Queensland Club.
®TRST- CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
ACCOMMODATION FOR NINETY.
*A. Waiter meets every Steamer.
an d Telegrams please address proprietor,
S. M. COLLINS.
Retti
hotel,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
jj^^dezvo AL R ° TEL ' Private Sitting Room.
US for all parties engaged in mining
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
C E,
P 0 TOWnsvht^ 1 a l hot e l,
to t’Class a S^ILLE > QUEENSLAND.
{j?' ari d PaS lno ? ation f° r Commercial Gentle’
In * c *iarg e Pi S ‘ P riv ate Sitting-room without
Hofl 0c!i ’ s )' ' Y r '*=° an d Shower Bath. Billiards
lj7 ta te. w . f-dass Chef. Charges strictly
everv S (. an<i ®P irits of the best brands.
er i steamer.
HANRAN, June., Proprietor.
\ n URT A N T NO T I
'CafLTON (of ,, .
n, ° inform tv ttle flrm of Lowry & Bolton
travelin d; 6 nu merous friends of the Firn
fiOW t„ ? Public that he has gone t<
win A 6 chai ’ge of the SUNBURST
sudopt . . ence f or th be carried on unde
kki ’ IS - l0n ’ Sunburst Hotel, Moun
Nwo^^tain J rj Luate d, and facing the cele
Will firin Arsons visiting the celebratec
It,. e ®a on tv. 6Ver V c °mfort and convenienci
kt tL on BILLIARD TABLI
hoo 4 >ihmodltin RE , MISES ’ also STABLINC
S lt;j ABLootr aof T HIRTY HORSES, anc
Co«cf n hia flve minutes’ walk o
T p S from and to Rock
iii
the 6
address—
Cit 7 UUI
i^7. A E e BOLTON
- m °f Lowry & Bolton),
R g Ip XT
M °unt Morgan.
STRe et, Rockhampton,
1Us *-Ct
Rw v Plun<, ASS I ' AMILY Hotel.
Sitt in ® e aUd Sh °wer Bath.
®fa.bH n J°° ,n ’ without extra charge.
JAS \\ RVery acc °mmodation. -
4 Proprietor.
'V. E hotei
. ■ A v or iier of
Vr.i. SouJ h Melb °ußne Streets,
B HISBANE.
h 6(1 tie (77 tion - Suites of Apartment
~ °7f st and Best Ventilated
A>
V^< 0 -
in the City.
Proprietor.
V f **B? SALES' hoth:
i 4^t. clas r> r ilda.
VV and to vife 1 offer s superior accomir
Q ! Wa ta,i Cot ‘ tl, al nn E a ? d residents » being in
N[u A® v an d Ran,t ltlon ’ frontin g the Ba
N B %at t b 1 p ; -? ld within fi ve minuti
\ ]3. ail , wa y Station. Priva
«K-Wg 6 g ‘i'Oom’ tT CS drawing-room, gent
*AOt and P.nld LofFa xxrHVi
'AAaYYHIg-rUUm ) gtJIIL
Blot and cold baths withe
%r -
k J?. F ART ho
K A Y.
S^|l?o c ?„ a s Sp “ lal
Pri
\ L, P a >i„7 ar hath. ’I
p rOl
hot
K;
ofßoi
' Per diem. All
,q tt
Cqf
her of
a hd
IIs fGTON
\Nt, ' dl — __
X^^S‘^ UKTEI
° T Gm ing erei
. \ a uu Ch
Hi
la n«k
rs * Haig]
Hotels.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, 80ULBURN.N.S.W
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting roams,
sample rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
Masonic hotel, east-street, Rock-
hampton.—t. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings:—The “Western Cham-
pion says : “I can recommend the Rockhampton
Masonic to my western friends.”
jyjfOUxNT MORGAN HOTEL, QUEENSLAND.
' Under the distinguished patronage; of His Ex-
cellency Sir A. Musgrave. K.C.M.G. Accommo-
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey buildings. From
the balconies a splendid view can be obtained of
the celebrated mountain of gold, and within a few
minutes’ walk of the company’s works. Passenger
and mail coaches daily from Rockhampton and
Kibra railway-stations. W. MONCKTON, Pro-
prietor, of the firm of Monckton and Co.
Business Announcements
E. 33 MILES.
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Mining Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
a.
1
KAMPCAf TU*t B 5
* IMPORTER?, Hr
Patuapsl
4 sb ceokce s;
3YDNEvH
%
S:-
UMBRELLAS
RE-£3V-:r \C,
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames ri
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equa
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
" '-“.'ld Hill, between
,<1 Bathurst Street
» >o match cc
Cl
OR!
NAL
oA King
s\\s
%
*
OBTAIN CO A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OK
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MErill
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!
NONE OTHER GUT
WAUCH’S
RE C£ IV tO TtiE <NTERN AT lON AL
PRIIEMDDAL
UADUfACniftEO BYjA|(EsQiAlf]ffifl
4 rsroBif
£l „ fitidtaAD CiccMwadStofaU©***
MARSHALL'S *
TONIC NERVINE
l ■ " - ■'■■■■■' ''■*
Trade Mark— “ TONIC NERVINE.”
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion.
Cures Nervous Debility.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Price 1/6.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Sydney, N.S.W.; London, England.
Business Announcements.
M
0 N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request.
J. Cm A INGHAM,
Mabgaret-stbeet, Wyn yard-square, Sydney.
a mmrni medicine.
BKECHAM’S PILLS
c
V
*
PATENT
IS
M
PILLS
$
$
*3
Arc admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervout and trem-
bling sensations, <feo. The
first dose will give relief
In twenty minutes. This
is bo fiction for they have done it in thousands of cases,
■very sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Mb, and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
M a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring about all that is required. No
female should be without them. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
oording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
bo found to work wonders upon the most important
organs of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
In Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills stand un-
rivalled ; and any one labouring under any of the above
oomplaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the best ever offered to the public for Asthmatic and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com-
fort to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with anjr of the above oomplaints give Bison am’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be re-
moved.
Caution. —The public are requested to notiee that the
words “ BwscHAirs Pills, St. Helens,” are on the Govern-
ment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills. lUnot on
they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Robert b u t«c he r & 00.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to *
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out' of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF All THE'
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches:
61 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,000,000
Reserve Fund... ... ... 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canaaa, can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred*t.
Drafts issued and Bills cc’lected on moßt favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIE Acting Manager.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYENS
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Balchin, Johnson & Co,,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney,
ofjSydmtj.
JLNQUJratoIS, BLUtJMOUNTALtiS»
WE, can recommend the Imperial Hair
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address—
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
jy RIDGE’S
FOOD
m INFANTS, no INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in EnglaYid,
4inJ is now being introduced into tho
C JiCr.iCt.
£ very Storekeeper should get asupjply,,
as every wise mother will certainly*
uee it.
ROYAL FOODMILI.S,
LONDON. ENGLAND,
s
AM
H
(5
pituu^lS
MAT, BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
CHEST AFnECTION
ALL
AND
astf
GENUINE SODA WATER.
THE
Sjilti Md Water Co,
IS CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY,
Perfect Purity Guaranteed.
XVtcj» ■ i* onstache *nd Wklskdra,,
■EFONB
Copyrighted, /
Boyd’e Beard Elixir did thus,
|'iN(f will do it on either bald
head or bare face • Forces
heavy Moustache in from a fa
4 weeks and never fails ,2o,ooo°
young men already wear full
On tyrtekM.
beards, having used Ito 3 pkta .Vo injury p easily applied c certain
in effect. Packets, le. (J/J earth 4/or 3s* 6dpost paid,, sent under
sover a free from obeervatum « ddreee D IPiraak JD©ißglft* 0 Sole Agent ,
B»x T3Q-
s
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker
• 296 PITT STREET.
LU
on Hire.
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for.its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Thksi Gold Msmr.s—
PARIS,IB7B; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE I YLANGYLANG
STEPHANOTIS lOPAPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled tor thair delightful and lasting odour
Atkinson's celebrated
E ATT DE OOLOCFNE.
Unsurpassed for Its strength and delightful
fragrance. It is far superior to the numerpua
compounds sold under the same name.
Of all Dtalert, and of the Uanufacturtri—
i. A E. ATKINSON,
M, Oi*d Bonn Stxbbt, Londox.
a. Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on“ Golden
fek le yre.” A


nm\
YAL
m
*4ki8 c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure,
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
nnffina, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
-east, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
hem lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
is caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
■he flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
heßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
jy dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
md by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only m tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
South Wales.
IMPORTER OP
“WIITEJS, SI 9 ! El ITS, BEERS,
<ScO-, &o.
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:—
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 tolo years old); W. Jameson’s gunville’s and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell s and Sazerac s Brandies (o, 10, 15 and Zl years )
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
4®" The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. m All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales’ Hotel, 778 & 780 George-street.
Wholesale aiid Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney-
as- SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
MSf-tIiSS HUES' EEfSISIIII MEM nl HIM?,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
Produce Stores - iM) darunghurst road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prmce of Wales Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
ISTEIW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYHYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne, and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALL AAH BROTHERS.
VENI, VIDJ,
For Artistic Posing an *Lf briStoWf.* 1
™ mbtoto -SSS»^ O ‘ _ .!
combinin' .
JARLEMOMT I "
royal arc* 0 ”*
STAND PRE-BMINBNTI^^^
—■" tb» 41
HE w ONDBB ° g
COLEMANS AND
Pure Volatile ng
; vuicuuv ■ jjjß fl'g
the only Genuine jVB^
GOLU A
All those suffering from
sumption, Rheumatism,
Kidney and Gravel ComP^oß^
OIL ? »“ ®S.»
stands without a rival f
We have more u
Bad Eyes. We have m ° r ® „ r id. p soU,J*
than any medicine in * mt)S , Pri°®
address on receipt of sta V 3fl 6d» (jofl*
and 2s. 6d ; Ointment, , 2s. »>'
CJvrrl £>TT fmrl P\n"hTlFt)S« W •
ailU. 40* UU , r-rT
Sydney and Suburbs, vv
Moore Park, SydneTi
T
HE SC IBN 0 ® jI,P- J
BY W. KNOX PAj id M eoJVl
bound in
«- r>x \y. "... nid J» e 111(1 pfs
A Book for Young and O 0
<***■„& zsri:*.*?
LII UiUWI,
tions. Price, post P a jr>
pose froifl
sample free. Those su .®!* 1 1 ( j ! send
haustion and Diseases sh . rj oC to r
valuable work. Address • ur &e a
Ani„ni,„ m wa corner
V Ctl U.C* U-lv? VYUIA*
Post Office Chambers, corner
streets, Melbourne, Vic.
.0
H
A Blessing m every^p^jj
OLLOWAY’S '^***gS&
There is not a country
11 There is not a counbij . ive&y s
;he healing virtues of these Bjt erer e, J *L (
recognised by thousands of
ailments of humanity the** ~ e r linT) -
ailments of humanity s up
cognised. Fullest directions ,
every disease IF YOU bjJ*‘ „ t>n .si.
very disease IF YOU '
actured only at 78 New Ox oIJ
hasers should look to the ™
If the address is not 523 Ox:
spurious
<3- KEAT - OF
STATIONERY, BOOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BBACKETS, KasELS, BAGS, AND PURSES.
tnr Cash only m consequence of the Premises having been sold and great alterations pending,
Startling rednortons for a period C^ rH -y ßaMiTT^ofig Wi _ L RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
WILLIAM BULLA HO. 34,2 STRI
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS* of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts.
HYDRANTS, SHIP AND HOUSE SANITARY WARE, PIG AND SHEET LEAD, SPELTER, &C.
D -nr) Roll Fmindinff Finishing, Art Metal Work, Cot>persmithl«g, Blacksmlthing. Plumbing,
S»3£b Siding, Electnio and Pmmmatio Bell-atting, o( .very dn.cn.pt, nn.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,’
“VALVE,” and “ PAN ”, CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Meters,
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
ALFRED LAWRENCE a
130 COLLINS STREET, WEST,
Melbourne.
91 PITT
g r rß E# r >
Sydne?*
B
ARNETT & FOSTER’S Beer Crating, Soda-water, Wme and Cider C g Cid
_' Machinery. Steam and Hand Presses for Vignerons for lees Candleg
Merchants, Distillers, etc. Books on Brewing and Maitmg. Dayid
Waters, a guide to their manufacture, with recipes. Boakes Liquid Al , 0 (>
Finings and Preserver. Antiseptic for Butchers, in 18-gallon casks. Crawl
Lignozote for coating inside of vats and casks, preventive of fustiness.
family use ; makes block ice in three and a-half minutes, cools water or win ( ric e, * #
invaluable little machine will be found a perfect boon m country Aj
"-’-—nan Hop Extract, »»nw, nor .
Corking and Capsuling Machines. Hop Aroma, Bohemian nop jiixcracw
supplied for making Dandelion Ale, Dandelion Bitters, Lemonade, Ging
lllustrated Post-Free on^Apphcatio^^
tar
illustrated uataiogue ruau ncc uii
Publishing Office of “THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, p 0 gt ™
WINK AND SPIRIT TRADE REVIEW.” Specimen Copies
loriSro
• #
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
G. S. CURTIS,
.
Auctioneer &. Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS
a^coisT^srs
NEW ZEALAND
HERBAL REMEDIES
TESTIMONIALS.
From the Soudan Contingent Hospital
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
vva;
9<3SS
MONK'S PILE MIXTURE,
‘2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask lor it and take no substitute.
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonials
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A Positive Cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
& -fe
MvUtUUiIA FIXTURE;
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Sole Agents ■
Mathey, Nathan & Co,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
44 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne.
3DR_ R,
L.R.C.P., Edin., E.R- 0 - tfetfjVj
SgISSSKSS^Sfef
Resident Medical Officer 1
London, specialist for the : ',,j|
and Heart Diseases, &c.
Consultation by letter N T 0 , &
charge, at Edgar House,
Hunter-street Sydney.
0
n R & L-
a i>Qsq {
Send for large Bound o g, .
for all Nervous Diseases ’ at joD
age, 6d. in stamps. git efi
and the Doctor will tell ,
case is curable or not. —-
RlC#*>
DR
7 SPRING STlih
,0'
,rujt p t,
quarter, or One Pound P
- * ■
The Bulletin will be
the office, George-street,
the street.
Commercial Hotel,
THE above is one ° f tP e
Squatting Boteu %
reasonable. Sample l 0 , oJii h ,
Superior accommodaG wjf
Mrs. CO*«* .
aro
S"CriE3*\7
STOIEcS
js.f
I*
A. few of the many reasons for this bold assertion^
with traversing head.
reasons tor this ooia asseiunm , r iPo o t
■lindrical stem with broad steady r-'
~a- <»•••• f e et; any number of '
Wieaener’s New Patent
HE most perfect Theodolite Tripod in the world is w «* uo ® A"" the old atv i e
i„„di t i cf (Government and private surveyors of the present time, it is lighter than the oia sty
the leaaing.uovernmeni; ana pii au j alternately of gun metal and brass); can be i
possesses ample traversing motion ; cj
T
saves its cost in a month’s u®
as ns cost m a tc „ -
ghest mountain worK,
line in Australia,
