

your
grocer for
FRY’S ’ MALTED COCOA.
J. 8. PRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydnny.
" An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter."—Lamoni
ext SATURDAY, 20th October
At Three o’clock, on the Ground.
. PHH ._. __ w„, v jv _, ... l f , " a _ JMWI
. e Sales held last Saturday, Maribyrnong Park Estate, with £33,570 13s. 7d n heads the list, proving beyond a doubt the
estimation in which the public hold the Maribyrnong Park Estate.
Second Sale of Maribyrnong Park, Ascot Vale.
sale
Vas verily a
DA? IS MELBODRSD,
feu, 1 0 people being in
l6O Lots sold
j>or?^ es t Bidders for
■3,570 13s. 7d.
l** preparation for
l|( Jo||D SALE,
% lot will be posi-
° to the Highest
'Reserve what-
TN O Jo fictitious values
. the land and bought
v dummies.
%
SALE on its MERITS.
j
C ° investors and
s that is seldom
offered.
p| >
\ i*Ui olis re( l u i re( l as to
he same locality.
'—
X; tendance and
if? tJ l 0 ? s voice of the
i|%ai° Vln g beyond a
$ *> estate in the
compared to
°ng Park.
Locality Sketch
SHEWING
MARIBYRNQNG PARK
MILES FROM MELBOURNE ROC
SSIII
MlkE
ROAD
Y KASipYRiIbNC m ASCOT VALP
% STATION
GRQUNO\V&,
I mm ii W „y~ \
REM»NC7QNW!^4 NeW WARKET
|RAC.ECOURS£\\°m®TATION
RACECOURS
MELB£UR.W,e\
Pos-p
\\OFFice
Ma
m
a ‘Vc3
h P 1
V . >
A
1
t
The Vendors —Hon. Thos.
Bent, M.L.A , E. E. Selman,
Esq., Gustave Lachal, Esq.,
J.R. —assure the public that
the next sale will be con-
ducted on the same lines, and
NO UPSET PRICE,
Evsrv lit to be sold to tbs IbheotSbiddor,
Giving the public of Melbourne and
the surrounding districts a chance to
secure a Block in an Estate that^has
No Equal in Melbourne,
BEAUTIFUL LAND.
The Minister of Railways
has promised an Examina-
tion of the District with a
view to the Racecourse Line
being continued through this
Estate. The Chief Secretary
stated that with railway
accommodation the property
would be a Second Glen Iris
or Toorak.
Perfect Drainage.
River frontages i Business frontages,
C. B. PISIIER, so well and favour-
ably known in Squatting and Racing
Circles, spending over £40,000 in
Improvements.
OlfcT a-11 OTrer tla.e g-BCTT.i\T t-i
TERMS TO SUIT EVERYONE.
£lo Deposit.
Balance, Quarterly Bills, up to Two Years, at 6 per cent.
- '■ ■■— ——
in preparation for Second Sale. Plans now in preparation for Second Sale.
, BHEVILL & CO., 16 Collins Street West, Melbourne;
E. SHATTOCK, )
J. J. SENDEE, )
In conjunction.
The Bulletin


f/ttACce
ANUFACTURERS
GOWiTiHWeiTiOHS
: s*mer
TOBACCO
L«l
ISOPSONS
ffi
a
33
O
V
V
r >
<•' r
SIR ROGER
DIXSONS
E. D. MILES.
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Minins Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND,
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured,
tot merely relieved, and we can prove what we say.
rhere are no failures and no disappointments.
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cures al
BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION
tnd DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve
llßtress from too hearty eating, correct DIS-
STOMACH, stimulate the
xe BOWELS, and PURIFY
e Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
fxtract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
t is possible for a Pill to be.
3RDERS of the
BIVER, regulate
THE BLOOD. T
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 3d.
0. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
LI F E PRES ERVAT I O N;
BY
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonbdaliß Stbeht East, MeiiBOUBNB.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment witheut the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any colonial Btamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
McLEAN BROS., BIGG ft CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
518 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
64 COLLINS STREET EAST.
RabKilbed Capital ~ -
Pal«l*«ip Capital .. ■ ■
Total Income but Half Tear -
*549,151
£240,554
£809,534
upisiTS i h ini. tn min Minis.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Panda who daahra tewt by small sumsof mwertain Amount
wish to secure INTERESTupon such stuns at a FA]E RATE, and f«t
aVBRY DATraAI THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK.
&is BRANOI off an tha Yery best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
neelve FIVE per cent, per annum upon their DnUy Balance.
AXFLS FtPDS ffor Borrowers. TG&XS LIBERAI.
J
©
Co
6
IRONMONGERS
%
&
%
SPKOIAX.im \
BMW lairtu?. ULacMua, MtosßM\»SA\AsjA\
KLKOTRO V'IiATRU WARS, OCTLBKY, IOOIA,
SAB COOKING STOVES I—DKONIS FXiKTOHKR'S. JEANS k WALKBKB,
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, Ice., Ice,
WILLIAMS’S j
10SMUI TEISI FOP
THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST*
!>L3lr'.
tfi'*
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBL®’
' WHEN MADE WITH «
Wlais’ Australia! least V l,
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
BOLD IN TINS AT 6d. THE HALF ?
PREM ,
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.,.
54 fcOLLIHS STREET
£25 Contributing SH» L
payJh ellt #
BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon
V-/ v
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon
—v, -“V i o^ a
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with in
amount to £25, when that sum is paid oyer to the
r eceN e
ntP
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares
d Co* 11 '
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum ? they ha
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for
Hon. JOHN NfflMO, M.P., J.P.,
JAMES MI RAMS, M.P., J.P.,
IF
F.
AT THE CORNER OF
Collins and King Streets, ME LB OU** l^
is * # 9
Now Open for Busifl e l
THE PALACE CONTAINS FIVE HUNDRED and FIFTY (550) R003I&
r FpA- 1
THE CUISINE and TABLE APPOINTMENTS ARE A SPECIAL
Special Accommodation for Families and Permanent Boarders.
G-eo. Colxeaa


The Bulletin
Vol 9—*o 454
SATUftIH-Y, OCTOBER 20, 1888.
Price, 6d.
An Ecclesiastical Relic.


The Bulletin
fflie National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the Australians.”
SPSOPBIETORS i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. t
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
A.® 34 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... ... 06 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles ,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs , Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct jo The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
san have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1888.
The Dying Fetiches.
The old, decaying “shores” of Monarchy are
stooping to their fall. Every day the great
machine which for ages and ages has ground
out human misery with every revolution of
its jarring wheels shows new signs of the
deerepfcitude which accompanies unhonoured
age, and every day the cataclysm comes
nearer. All Europe and two-thirds of Asia
are filled with the whispers of a stupendous
upheaval which is to break out —somewhere,
and in which armed millions are to tear each
other to pieces for some undefined purpose
which never takes visible form ; and every-
where a shapeless terror hangs over the Old
World and portends the approaching break-
down of the hoary tyrannies which link the
nineteenth century to the era of the Goths
and Huns. Long years of ceaseless retro-
gression have brought Europe back to the
point from which she started 20 centuries
ago ; arts, science, Christianity, civilisation,
have added a polish to the barbarism of
older days, but the system of Government
has undergone no material change ; now, as
in the distant past, every man is a soldier,
and all Europe is a camp, and public policy
is summed up in the sentence, “ Let us kill
somebody,” and the world is growing weary
of this dismal era of bloodshed and intrigue.
The tired old figureheads of monarchy, which
never, since monaichy was first invented,
served any one useful purpose in the scheme
of creation, still refuse to recognise that a
new era is dawning on mankind, and that
the time is approaching when the many will
refuse to be butchered for the amusement
of the few ; but princes are more obtuse than
common men and the deluge always comes
upon them unawares.
© * *
A few months ago a great potentate was
prematurely removed from this mundane
sphere when well on towards his hundredth
birthday. For many years the eyes of
Europe had been fixed upon him as he sat on
his throne gorged into insensibility with
buttered crab, and filled almost to the top
of his head with a soup of barbarous con-
struction, in which red herrings, sour wine
and ancient cabbage soaked in vinegar were
prominent features. Apart from his crown
this commonplace old cast-iron drillmaster
was nobody in particular. He was always
hungry and always anxious for something to
eat. Practically he swayed the destinies'of
the world, but the destinies of the world
troubled him little in his later years ; the
fate of nations was in his hands but a cease-
less stomach-ache harassed him, and so the
overfed old man drifted on as a living
example of the meanness and littleness
of kings. Teen he died, and half the
world was stricken with panic, because a
race of fools had entrusted to this gluttonous
patriarch the power of drenching the earth
with blood, and spreading ruin and desola-
tlon and death and bankruptcy over all the
lands between the German Ocean and Kam-
tschatka, and the clay god having eaten
himself to death, all was a blank. And now
the eyes of Europe are turned on a young
prince with a distorted frame and masses of
cotton wool in his ears, on whose head the
crown of the Hohenzollerns has devolved,
and whose single intellect must decide
whether the results of centuries of materia
progress are or are not to be undone.
♦ * •
Further East a drunken and ignorant Czar
sits uneasily on a seething mass of disaffec-
tion and prays the only prayer which now
passes the lips of a Romanoff —that things
may last his time. His father offered up tie
same petition before him and offered it up as
he does on the points of four million bayonets.
In his case the petition was answered. He
went forth one day to show himself to his
loving subjects, and an hour later an almost
unrecognisable mass of crowned cats-
meat was brought back in a carriage,
and the world knew that Alexander
had been taken from the wrath to come.
His predecessor, Nicholas, died a natural
death—of rage and liquor and, it is more
than whispered, of poison, and so he also
escaped the deluge ; but few of the Czars
come to so peaceful an ending. These
memories of the past are fast driving Alex-
ander 111. into insanity. He has already
become a dreary hypochondriac who sees
visions and dreams of phantoms, and starts
from shapeless terrors ; and, in his distrac-
tion, he masses great armies and conducts
incoherent manoeuvres and dictates in-
ebriated protocols, and is steadily drinking
and drivelling Europe into a war, of which
no one can see the end And meanwhile,
throughout his empire, the clank of fetters
is in the air, and the cries of thousands of
tortured prisoners, as they eat their lives out
in noisome dungeons, go up to heaven, and
all Russia exists in a living death that one
worthless Romanoff may not die.
* M
In Austria a dull and commonplace man
of no account sits on the throne, and, with
stupid, cumbrous motion, prepares for the
war which everyone feels to be inevitable,
though where or why or by whom it is to be
waged none can tell with any certainty. He
belongs to the oldest reigning house in
Europe, a family which is slowly decaying
under the pressure of insanity, epilepsy, and
other hereditary maladies, but the Hafs-
burgs cling with a tenacious grip to the
Roman crown, and a stupendous levy of
armed men has been ordered to prop
up their bedridden dynasty. To the
south of his territories a mystic and melan-
choly Oriental, whose father and brother
were both lunatics, and who is alternately
the deepest schemer and the most harmless
driveller of the East, lurks in his seraglio
and orders the rifles of his guards to be kept
unloaded lest they should go off by their own
accord and scatter his corrupted brains
against the wall; while to the North another
crowned madman, brother and successor to
a madman, howls in a padded room in the
Bavarian capital and gibbers through the
windows upon the subjects over whom he
rules by virtue of the divine right of kings.
The rest of the German states which sur-
vived the disastrous days of 1866 are
governed by a multiplicity of petty princes—
shadowy potentates with morganatic wives
and families of dubious origin ; hungry,
drunken monarchs who sway their hereditary
sceptres in ramshackle chateaux and whose
sons polish their own boots in Prussian
barracks while awaiting the advent of the
day when they will succeed to the inverted
kerosene-tin of their fathers and guide the
destinies of a little territory a day’s donkey-
ride in diameter. History, so far, tells of
no German prince who ever took in washing,
but the royal beadles of the Fatherland
have experimented on every other form of
degradation, and persistent intermarriage
has spread an ineradicable taint of insanity
through the ancestral humpies in which they
wield the green-cotton umbrella of sove-
reignty.
* * *
Danmark, which exerts in Central Europe
an influence altogether disproportioned to
its size and resources, is slowly dying under
the rule of a foolish and stone-deaf tyrant,
who has long posed before the world as a
philanthropist of the first magnitude ;
and his stone-deaf family promises favourably
to keep up the traditions of the dynasty.
The taint of scrofula and mental disease
which a constant series of royal alliances has
spread throughout nearly every reigning
house in continental Europe is now making
itself felt in the at Copenhagen, and
is also fast corrupting the sturdy physique
of the descendants of Bernadotte in Sweden ;
and the ceaseless flow of the impure blood of
the minor German princes into England has
given to that country a series of wooden-
headed and sordid rulers of whom the
Anglo-Saxon race has little cause to be
proud. For many years the Guelrhs with-
stood the contagion. Dull, stagnant, illi-
terate, mean, immoral, parsimonious, and
unsentimental as so many wooden gods, this
cart-horse race of thirsty beer-drinkers held
out well against the destroying diseases
which, in Europe, have become the preroga-
tive of kings ; but of later years epilepsy,
the sure forerunner of insanity, Las ap-
peared among them, and the great
States of the Old World can now boast
without fear of contradiction that very
few of their anointed rulers are thoroughly
responsible beings, while more than one is
incompetent even to come in when it rains.
Of kingly rulers there are none left, unless
Humbert of Italy may be so described ; the
only other sovereign of recent times who
even aspired to the designation was the
gilded Caesar who went down at Sedan, and
left behind him a legacy of woe which France
will never forget.
• » •
Such as they are, the monarch* of Europe
are now filling that continent with rumours
of coming bloodshed and new disaster.
Lunatics, epileptics and drunkards are mass
ing gigantic armies to guard thrones and
crowns which are of use to no one but the
owner ; diseased and tottering potentates are
feebly shoring up each other with treaties
and parchments ; almost every able-bodied
man in a whole continent is posing in uni-
form ; and yet no one knows even now why
the great struggle which everyone foresees
should be undertaken. A huge phantom of
coming desolation looms through the mist
of intrigue and royal aberration but there
is still no visible casus belli, and no
national issue is at stake. Meanwhile,
underneath the thrones of the dull, ignorant
tyrants, the ground is being hollowed out
by the undermining influence of disaffection
and incipient revolt, and the time is steadily
approaching when crowns and sceptres will
topple together into the abyss. Out of the
chaos which is dawning a new world will be
built. Monarchy has proved itself too ex-
pensive an institution to be much longer
endured. The barren waste of history—the
arid, lifeless, interminable desert of sand on
which is written the record of the past—tells
of nothing but bloodshed and horror ; every
hill in Europe and Asia looks down on a
battle-field where human misery was piled
up to avenge the petty differences of kings,
and the kings of the present day are the
same a 3 those of long ago. And war has
now become a terribly expensive experiment.
Six months of strife costs hundreds of thou-
sands of human lives, and amasses debts
which three centuries of Industry cannot re-
pay. The last hundred years of waifare has
mortgaged Europe for 3000 years to come,
and yet in the whole ghastly catalogue of
murder and wrong there is not written the
story of one campaign which was undertaken
for any other purpose than the gratification
of one man’s lust and malice. And, great
as have been the horrors of war, it is ques-
tionable if the horrors tf pease have not been
greater still. Morally and intellectually the
monarchs of the present day are the very
dregs of humanity, and, if history is not a
gigantic fiction, they have mostly been little
else since Monarchy began.
© v
It is for the purpose of taking a hand in
this great game of insanity and demoniac
folly that the shirt-sleeved Caesars of Aus-
tralia are invited to come forward and be a
pale and ignominious reflex of the other
Caesar —the bounceable crusader who did
not dare ti die at Sedan. Compared with
the politicians of modern Europe the hysena
follows the higher walks of diplomacy, and
the policy of the kites and crows is a refine-
ment of the science of government when
contrasted with the ruffianly violence and
dull hypocrisy which pass for statecraft in
an era which is called Christian btcause its
empty oaths are sworn in the name of a dis-
honouredGoD. Yet “Loyalty,” as now under-
stood in Australia, means that this country is
called upon to cast in her lot with the dying
world and share the destinies of Europe at a
time when Europe is on the brink of a
fathomless abyss. We are cheerfully sum-
moned to touch pitch and not be defiled ; to
challenge an Imperial lunatic let loose ; to go
16,000 miles out of our path to place our-
selves between two millstones which grind
exceeding small. There is so much to lose
and so little to gain that the programme is
not an attractive one. The man who seeks
the lion of the desert for the express pur-
pose of treading on its tail is not generally
regarded as an individual of genius, but his
action is an inspiration from heaven com-
pared to the programme of the Imperial
Federation grovellers who are now loose in
this Continent.
The Revolt. Has Begun!
Were it not so, what need of the late New South
Wales military preparations on behalf of Capital?
What need of Nordenfeldts and armies if it were
not recognised that this strike differed from the
rest in proclaiming war, not against individuals,
but against a System ? The revolt has begun :
what though want and the fear of military assaults
compel the strikers to resume slavery upon a com-
promise, or even less ? In that very display of
force is the recognition of this fact : that those
who produce are entitled tc the material and the
fruits of their production—entitled to the full
exchange value of the latter, and entitled to keep
away all who would deprive them of their places
at the raw material when they wish still to utilize
their own labour at those places. What though
for awhile suffering and soreness of heart be sub-
stituted for active protest ? It is only that fresh
fuel is being added to the fire which smoulders
beneath the surface, and which will break out
above so much the more surely for all that
is fed into it, for such fuel can never
stifle the flame of its own burning until
it stifles the flame of life itself, leaves the
millionaire slaveless, and bids him labour or die.
A small jet of flame subsides, but a huge ember is
glowing, from which shall burst presently—if the
cause be not taken away—one vast searing sheet of
fire. It is noo alone the miners who have suffered
—it is the People. Capital has made its thousands
by retailing that for which it paid nothing, and
waste, at famine prices, of the best. And the
People have come to see that they too are the
chattels of every slave-owner ; that there is profit-
slavery as well as wage-slavery. The People are
beginning to say : “My children are the members
of my own body ; their freedom is mine; who
wounds one of them, wounds me.” And the
People will shortly also say : “ Get you gone, you
who have taken a monopoly of my earth. The
world is mine, and I am going to use it with these
workers, the members of my body. He who
denies the freedom to these my limbs, bids Man-
kind cease from the Earth.” Presently the People
will add : “ He who bids Mankind to cease, is not
in truth human. He shall cease himself.” Then
will be the Revolution !
* •
Will it be a revolution of blood ? ' Let the
usurpers answer for themselves. If they feel the
force of what is coming, and gradually abandon
their monopolies ; if, under the gradually-increas-
ing pressure of public thought, they leave usury
and teach their sons to produce material or mental
wealth, instead of wringing their needs from
others, and urge those sons to stand foremost in
the ranks of the revolters, that they may not be
ground down by other usurpers as the masses had
been : the revolution will be under the red flag of
fraternity, and its blood will run in torrents
through hearts of joy.
• • *
But if they short-sightedly cling to the trade of
plunder, and their sons learn to regard it as their
right—if they rely on anti-labourer laws and Nor-
denfeldt guns to crush the masses into subjection
—they will see the red flag waving over bayonet
and rifle, point to point, muzzle to muzzle, charge
to charge ; they will see blood without flesh, and
flesh without blood. They will see—and they will
see no more. The Revolution will pass over
them, and it can never be stayed. The People are
invincible.
• * *
The revolt has begun ! In France, as here, the
military have been employed to prevent the
strikers from meeting those not yet on strike, with
the result that a good many of the latter have
thrown down their tools and left work, and
already blood has been shed. In America, as
here, spurious “ dynamite-plots ” have been laid
to throw consternation into the ranks of Labour,
and estrange sympathy from those who are bat-
tling against greed and fraud, and already lives
have been sacrificed. In Germany, in England,
in Italy, in Roumania the same things are going
on, and blood streams on every side, shed not by
the Revolution, but against it. Perhaps it will
not be long before it pours out in Australia to in-
timidate those who are claiming their rights.
Within three years the periodical cycle of misery
is due in Melbourne, and its effects will be felt in
the course of a short time all over the continent.
Then we shall see what we shall see !
a m
But, sharp and bitter as it may be that the
struggle shall grow, it is not for ever that humanity
is going to suffer at the hands of its taskmasters
and plunderers. The signs that are looming over
all the earth are signs that have not been seen since
legend was repeated or history written. The con-
ditions of life have altered so that all things
are seen face to face. The race has grown so close
as to form only one being—Man—and there is no
room for another to be master. Already the
Voice of the People is heard murmuring dimly in
all the quarters of the globe. Already the indi-
viduality of malcontent and proprietor is felt to be
merged in the solidarity of Human Right against
Privileged Appropriation. Already the weapons
of the Nations are being withdrawn from the reach
of the people and filched to guard the interests of
the Privileged Classes. Already the great mer-
chants and speculators of the earth are whispering
for a federation of strong Governments that they
may be able to concentrate their forces the more
effectively and prevent the preachers of liberty
from having a refuge or a place to stand. And
already the workers are steadily, silently making
their preparations by literature, organisation, and
tacit comprehension, to nullify all these schemes
of oppression and possess themselves, once and for
*6l peaceably, if it be possible, but by any means
and at any cost—of the full heritage of men. The
Revolt has begun!
The Room of 1975.
Among the latest wonders of science is that
diabolical application of the electric light by
means of which a medical sharp, after insinuating
a smooth and slippery tube into your throat, pre-
sently illuminates your viscera as a candle-end
lights up a Chinese lantern, and forthwith pro-
ceeds to demonstrate what is wrong with your
conscience, or liver, much the same thing, and
how many whiskeys-straight it has taken to bring
your stomach into the condition he discloses.
That which the doctor does for the body cor-
poreal the statistician does for the body politic,
and New South Wales’ Mr. Coghlan may cer-
tainly claim that, so far as his colony is concerned,
his Statistical Register, just published, lets the
light in on its dark places with vigour and suc-
cess. He wisely eschews the paragraphic form in
which the poet Hayter presents the statistics of
Victoria. Perhaps he has heard of that dreadful
day when, times being bad, every paragraph dis-
closed a corresponding falling-off from the return
of the previous year, and each of the inspired
Hayter s accurate statements read like an indict-
ment of the Government which straightway in-
formed him that they were a great people, and
must be cracked up. Poor Mr. Hayter ! The
astute Mr. Coghlan gives tables only and lets you
form what conclusions you like. If you are the
proud possessor of his 405 hugepagesof little figures
and big ones you can make quite a variety of pleas-
ing deductions for yourself. Indeed, you will follow
an excellent example in so doing, for Premier
Parkes led the way the other night at St.
Leonards and indulged himself in a number of
fairy visions of the future, for all of which Mr.
Coghlan’s figures were avowedly responsible.
• *
Let us imitate the imaginative statesman, and
disport ourselves awhile among deductions. It
appears, according to the Premier, that, at the
present rate of increase, the population of New
South Wales, which is now little over a million, will,
in 37 years, be close on five millions, in 62 years
12 millions, and in 87 years almost 32 millions and
a-half. All right. Now, Mr. Coghlan’s figures
also show a decreasing marriage-rate, for the mar-
riages per thousand of the population were, in
1883, 7.16 per 1000 ; in 1884, 6.74 per 1000; in
1885, 6.42 per 1000 ; in 1886, 6.16 per 1000; and in
1887, the last for which statistics are complete,
5.99 per 1000. In five years, therefore, the mar-
riage-rate has decreased from 7.16 per 1000 to 5 99
per 1000, or by considerably over one-seventh. At
this rate, long before New South Wales reaches
the latest of the three periods mentioned by Sir
Henry Parkes weddings will be entirely obsolete,
and this colony will have become like the
kingdom of heaven, where the Bible tells “ there
is neither marrying nor giving in marriage.” |_j|


As a country does not always depend entirely
upon the births for an increase of population, it is
not of so much consequence that the birth-rate
diminishes also, especially as the rate of diminu-
tion is slight. Still it may be worth while to
notice that the birth-rate has since 1883 fallen
from 37 "49 per 1000 to 36 42 per 1000. Seventeen
years before —in 1871—it was 39'63 per 1000, and
since that time it has, on the whole, steadily
diminished. The same process of reasoning which
leads Sir Henry Parkes to calculate that in 87
years New South Wales will have nearly
millions of people will enable him also to find out
the number of years in which, with a diminishing
birth rate, the population will reach the condition
described by the lady who said “it was hereditary
in her family not to have any children.”
» » •
There is, however, another aspect of this part of
the subject which to a moral man like Sir Henry
Parkes must be fraught with painful reflections.
That is the gradual but certain increase in the
proportion of illegitimate births—in other words,
the (immortal phrase !) “ Rise and Progress of the
New South Wales Benevolent Asylum ! ” In 1883,
the rate of illegitimate births was 4 21 per cent. ;
in 1887 it was 4'59 per cent. It has steadily in-
creased since 1871, when it was only 3.88 per cent.
It is therefore a very simple matter of calculation
for anyone so expert as Premier Parkes to prove
by reasoning from Mr. Coghlan’s undoubtedly
accurate returns—firstly, that the custom of mar-
riage will at no distant date become extinct in
New South Wales ; secondly, that in a somewhat
longer period children will cease to be born in the
colony ; and, thirdly, that long before births
entirely cease all the children born will be illegiti-
mate. Neither the figures nor the conclusions are
ours. The figures are those of Mr. Coghlan, the
conclusions are arrived at by following the method
of Sir Henry Parkes.
♦ •
It is only just to a large and influential bcdy of
tradesmen to give them timely warning of a
coming change by which their interests will be
seriously affected. The tradesmen alluded to are
the fellow-craftsmen of that admirable and much-
respected orator Mr. Ninian Melville, whose
industry, necessary at present, will by and by b 9
extinguished, for how can the most energetic
undertaker bury the dead when there are no dead
left to bury ? The death-rate is diminishing with
a rapidity which however delightful to the people
of New South Wales musb needs be alarming to
the masters of funereal ceremonies. The New
South Wales death-rate last year was only 13 15
to the 1000. It was 14'88 the year before and
16 '4l the year before that, and on the average of
17 years it was 15 40. Here be news indeed, and
glorious news, too, for everybody but heirs-at-law
and dealers in annuities. The time is coming, and
moreover, according to the mebhod of reasoning
pursued by Premier Parkes, is not far off, when a
lease for life will mean a lease for ever, when in-
surance companies will have nothing to do, when
cemeteries will be closed, mortuary masons bank-
rupt, and the first columns of the daily papers will
be deprived of interest since nobody will die,
nobody be born, and nobody get married. What a
country it will be, to be sure, and what a fortunate
land is New South Wales to have a Premier whose
mode of reasoning leads to such brilliant and
satisfactory results !
•
When that blissful day shall have arrived—when
the entire population of New South Wales shall
be at once immortal and illegitimate, when births,
deaths, and marriages shall have ceased in the
land, and the Registrar-General’s duties be
lessened by the total abolition of vital statistics—
various other consequences will have come to pass
which are worthy of contemplation. The number
of landholders holding more than 10,000 acres
steadily increases, and that at a more rapid rate
than the growth of the total number. In 1883
there were in New South Wales 39,760 land-
owners, of whom 403 held more than 10,000 acres
each ; in 1888 there are 40,142 landowners, of
whom 566 hold more than 10,000 acres each. The
increase in the total number of landowners is a
little more than 13 per cent, in five years • The
increase in the number of large landholders is just
upon 20 per cent, during the same period ! The
date at which the operation of the larger rate of
increase will arrest, conquer, and absorb that of
the smaller rate can be easily ascertained by any
one who will follow out Premier Parkes’ infallible
method of deduction.
The immortal and illegitimate posterity of the
present population of New South Wales will be
well provided w ibh live-stock, for the existing 47
millions of sheep will, according to their present
rate of increase and Sir Nordeneeldt Parkes’
mode of calculation, have attained the satisfactory
number of 48,128,000,000, which will give every
man, woman, and child of the great man’s 32
millions no less than 1504 illegitimate and possibly
immortal sheep each. But the citizens of that
epoch will not know the taste of beef unless they
import it, since the number of horned cattle
steadily decreased from 1879 to 1886, and, al-
though the process of decrease stopped during
1887, there does not seem to be much chance of
a turn of the tide. But the lack of beef will not
matter since there will be plenty of money to buy it.
The million of the New South Wales population
last year owned, according to Mr. Coghlan and Sir
Henry Parkes, property of various kinds having
a total value of 1,015 millions sterling Adopting
the same method of calculation used by the Pre-
mier, that is merely taking it for granted that the
rate of increase which has characterised the past
will be maintained in the future, it follows that
the fortunate inhabitants of New South Wa’es in
1975 will be possessed of something like 600,000
millions sterling, which will give every inhabi-
tant, old and young, something like £lB,OOO in
hard cash.
• ♦ *
There’s not much to fear in a future like this.
No marriages, therefore no mothers-in-law ; no
childbirbb, consequently no monthly-nurses ; no
legitimate kindred, and so necessarily no squab-
bling about inheritance. Plenty of money, plenty
of meat, and plenty of large landowners to bow
down to and worship—what can the average Aus-
tralian want more ? Talking of worship,
by the way, brings forward the fact that
the average rate of attendance at church
increases in so much greater a proportion than the
growth of the population that the 32 millions and
a half of people who are to inhabit New South
Wales in 1975 will have to go to six churches a
day every day in the week to keep up with it. If
this is not the millennium it’s something very
nearly like it, and we ought to be very grateful to
know that it is so near at hand. Indeed, when
we come to thick of it, we feel something of its
glories in advance. r lhe people of New South
Wales have Mr. Coghlan to describe to them how
great they are, and Sir Henry Parkes to
prophesy what wonderful people they will be, and
probably those two circumstances added together
make quite as much joy as could comfortably be
endured at present.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Frauds of Greece.
Burke died boo soon. Had he lived in the pre-
sent year of grace, in the sunbright land of New
South Wales, he would never have exclaimed :
“ The age of chivalry is dead !” Two humble
oystermen have saved this century from so foul a
reproach. With the specious aid of the succulent
bivalve immortalised by Lewis Carroll, two
descendants of Miltiades, two inheritors of the
glorious past of ancient Greece, have crowned the
labours of Pericles with a coup de tramway
stroke of high diplomacy which bathes our age
in the golden atmosphere of noble statecraft.
Dreaming daily, mayhap, of Salamis and Ther-
mopylse, opening oysters amid visions of the spicy
Archipelago, dreaming dreams of the land of the
oily olive and the fruity fig, flooding their
artistic souls with memories of the opaline sky
which hangs its golden-fretted canopy athwart
the blue waters that lave lonian coasts, these
worthy childien of Ulysses parted wide the shells
of tramway mis-management in sunny New South
Wales and extracted the juicy oyster of profit to
the tune of £2OOO. Ooe of the llomerjp.-i; then
ostracised himeelf—after selling out of the oyster-
trade—and made tracks for bhe many-tinted isle 3
of lovely Greece. There is a poem in this, an
epic, an idyl], a romance, a lyric, a drama, a chef
d’cßuvre. To swindle uu so magnificent a scale
demanded talents hitherto found only in
the versatile accomplishments of an Auet-a-
lian mem Per of Parliament. What, in
must be bhe sensations of this worthy in-
dividual at being dished by an oyster-splitter, a
low Greek, a purveyor of piscatorial mud-
fruit ? Is civilisation a failure, and is the Austra-
lian played out ? We fear so, and it all comes of
nob being versatile enough. To the Greek nothing
is too great, nothing too small. In Bret H arte’s
parody of Disraeli's “ Coningsby,” the American
humourist makes his hero ascribe the success of
the Jews in everything they undertake by the ex-
planation that the Children of Israel never despise
any underbaking. With equal care and readiness
they contract to found an empire at 200 per
shent or float an orange-stall at the same figure.
The Greek is greater tban the Australian swindler
because when he undertakes to be ‘on the job ” he
does not encase himself in a billy-cock hat, neither
weareth he fine apparel and much jewellery. He
simply squabteth at the seat of custom and thence
retails plates of shell fish and pints of periwinkles
the while he scoopeth the pool of the ungodly.
When his biz. is on the boom and everything
glowebh with a rosy hue he selleth out and de-
parteth for the land of love and song.
+.
A Plea I'or the Chinaman.
Referring to bhe recent prosecution of Ah Mow—
a Chinese agent for the dissemination of zymotic
disease in the town of Sandhurst, Victoria—
“ Vegetarian,” of Bendigo, writes as follows
Dear Bulletin,— l enclose paragraphs from the three
Sandhurst papers re the prosecution of Aii Mow for allow-
ing his premises to be in a filthy condition. For some
reason the case is not fuliy reported in any one of the
papers. I was in the Court during the hearing and
listened to the evidence of Constables Rvan and
O’Farrkll and of Dr. Hinchcliff, which was to the
effect that they bad found five pits of night-soil
mixed with blood in An Mows garden, and that the
vegetables vended by him were prepared for mar ket by being
soaked in water mixed with nightsoil. For this offence
Ah Mow was fined 55., though at the same court on the
same day Pat O Keefe was also fined ss. for merely being
drunk. Constable Ryan said: “ I found close to the
house two large jars full of putrid urine with roagg t s
moving in it. I also found five pits of nightsoil mix-d
with blood in the drains in the garden ; maggots were
moving about in this s uff, and the stench was strong 300
yards from the place. I thereupon gave the defendant
notice to remove the filth. He did not do so, and I re-
ported the case to the doctor.” Dr. Hinciicliff corro-
Dorated this evidence, atd added that “ vegetaoles grown
in An Mow's garden would be very dangerous to health.”
An Mow was fined s>. Is this not farcical ?
This is something more than farcical; it is hor-
rible. It is all very well to object that Nature is
a wondrous alchemist, that the ro3e of Gul may
bloom in beauty on a hot-bed of disease, that the
modest violet may draw its perfume from the
breast of bhe dead leper, but we enjoy the beauty
of the rose and the perfume of the violet all the
more when we know that they havenotfecl theirtints
and their scents on putrescence. Besidep, we do
not eat roses or violets, and would not smell them
with pleasure coming from such a source. We do,
however, eat “lettuc-ee ’ and “ cabbage-ee,”
green with a top-dressing of liquid manure which
has nob gone through the transmuting process
from mould to vegetable-cell, and the deadly
character of which cannot be changed by a p; r-
functory washing in cold water at the hands of
Bridget Murphy, or even by boiling. Professor
Bastian, we think it was, who discovered
life-forms in organic substances submitted to
a temperature of 200 degrees Fahrenheit. We
know that this thing is difficult bo combat for
the white vegetable-vendor will buy from the
Chinaman all the while he can procure cheap
wares There is only one course open for those
who like clean food ; let every householder who
objects to Chinese-raised vegetable* subscribe to a
company for the purpose of buying a block of
land and growing white-tended kitchen-garden
stuff, and thus practically boycott the “cabbag-ee”
man.
*
"Is Marriage a Failure?"
Melbourne Herald has had its soul shattered
and its soft emotions torn by the great marriage-
que.-tion which is, during the present season, going
the rounds of the press in default of well-
authenticated perjuries from valued corres-
pondents concerning the overworked snake.
Ladies have rushed headlong into the fray
and poured their sweet convictions into Editor
Winter’s columns with a persistency and
callousness worthy of a tax-collector : soulful
sylphlike things with appealing eyes and lips of
the rose-petal pattern who want to be married,
and tough and leather skinned old maids who pro-
test they would die before linking themselves to a
“horrid man,” and dames who have bloomed in
wedlock into florid maturity, and soured, crabbed
wives who have been thrashed and starved into
man-haters, and parson-loving females whose
hearts haye been turned against the “old man”
by the voice of the pietistic turtle, and whose
dreams of connubial bliss have been rudely
shattered by the ecclesiastical kiss of peace with
which church going ladies disturb the set of their
friz. - Amongst others who have plunged their
little feminine pens into the ink-bottle of contro-
versy is that well-known champion of “Women’s
Rights,” Mrs. Harrison-Lee (with a hyphen),
'who so'emnly paints a frigid picture of polar
moonbeam happiness by marriage according to
the tenets of the Abilites. The letter is such a
funny one that it deserves immortality—as an
early specimen of unconscious humour in an Aus-
tralian woman. List to the wailful strain of the
Abelite, “ Bessie Lee ”
“Tha general reason given by the gentlemen for not
proposing seems to ba the one of small salaries, anl I
kno v that in maDy cases this objection holds good ; but
have we not often baen told that two can live as cheap as
one? And this has been dearly proved. But, says one,
what about a possible family ? My advice to those who
cannot afford a family is not to have one. Marriage
should ba a union of souls, a sweet oompanionship, a
mutual help and sympathy ; but marriage, as it is ’
Well, the end of the matter is that Mrs. Lee
advises poor people to live together platonically
and “know what genuiae love and happiness
means. ’ And she concludes by
Trusting that my views may lead many to regard mar-
riage in a new light. I will close, first assuring my
re iders that it is because I so dearly love the gir's and
boys of our fair land, and so earnestly desire their
greatest happiness, that I have, after much consideration,
decided to write as I have done.
After reading this letter over one would naturally
ask : “ Why marry at all ?’’ Or, “Whyshould not
women marry each other, the old maid joined in
icy wedlock to the other old maid ? ’ Or, on the
above basis : Why should a man not have a dozen
wives, or a woman a dozsn husbands, seeing it is
purely platonic and thoroughly make-believe ?
The truth is that not thus will the difficulty be
bridged There is no reason why a man should
not have dummy wive 3, but he will always pro-
bably yearn for one, or a fraction of one, of a bona-
fide and provokingly real description. As woman
has become purely a specialist (for you don’t find
now-a-days many of those homely old-fashioned
wives who could not only sing but also cook) there
is really no reason why a man should not have
several in order to thoroughly experience what it
means to be married. He thus might have a wife
to dress and a wife to keep house, a wife for the
carriage, and a wife for drawing-room receptions.
Tndeed there is no limit to the number. He
might have a walking-costume wife, a winter-
costume wife, a wife for fancy dress carnivals, and
a wife for the apparel of the ordinary ball. To
make him _ perfectly happy he would require a
button-sewing wife and a chop-grilling wife, one
whose speciality was warming slippers and
another whose strong point was the wearing of a
spring-bonnet, and even then, perhaps, he would
be miserable. We are told that in Heaven there
is neither marriage nor giving in marriage The
cynical man will admit that that would he Heaven
indeed.
+
Sir Anthony Musgrave.
The cynics of Queensland and Brisbane have just
had a prime treat. You might have to wait many
a long year before you had such a simple of tihe
false and canting twaddle which seeks to cover
itself under the sickeningly stale adage of Dc mor-
tuis nil nisi bonum. A few weeks ago, with
scarcely an exception, the Queensland Press was
running Sir Anthony for all he was worth as a
narrowminded, would-be despot. Now, all the
columns of the newspapers have turned the place
into one huge assembly of toinb-stones, lifting
their greasy lies up to the insulted heavens. From
the Brisbane Courier downwards to the most
hopelessly obscure local weekly rag, the words
of yesterday give the lie direct to those of to-day.
Listen to this, and guess to whom it refers. A
certain person “ brought to bear on the Govern-
ment of a great and rising province qualities of
hears and intellect of which few Governors are
possessed. His social qualities were genial, and
his keen intellectualism was best appreciated by
those who had studied the literature alike of Eng-
land and France, America and Australia”
(Matthew Arnold, par parenthese, denied that
America had a literature, and not even Sir
Henry Park its has yet suggested that Australia
h as one—
So far as his reign in Queensland is concerned, there
was nothing with wlish the most fast dtous oould find
fa ilc, exoep: perhaps in the attitude he assumed in the
K ITT case. But de mortuis nil nisi bonum. He has gone
from amongst us, and we prefer to remember him for his
gracious presence, his courtly manner, his unaffected
sweetntss, and bis beautiful gentlemanlines3.
It seems incredible that all this balderdash was
writben about Sir Anthony Musgrave, or by the
fditorial pen of the leading daily of Queensland.
But it was. There is not a single statement
made, that truth does not compel one to traverse.
Sir Anthony M use rave was a man of the nar-
rowest caste ideas and caste sympathies. His
“qualities of heart and intellect” were those
proper to a man who.e career is a shameless
sample of the manner in which the caste rule of
England, founded on the abject subservience of
the ruled, is carried on. Tne list of the ap-
pointments he held is astonishing. For a public
career of some 30 years they run thus : —Treasurer-
Acc mutant of Antigua, Colonial Secretary of
Antigua, Administrator of Nevis, Administrator
of St. Vincent, Governor of Newfoundland,
Governor of British Columbia, Governor of
Natal, Governor of South Australia, Governor
of Jamaica, Governor of Queensland. And
in every one of these he manifested the same
profound want of sympathy with the people he
“ governed ” that made his rule in Adelaide as in
Brisbane that of a highly paid nonentity ! To
call his “ social qualities genial ’’ is quite comical.
At one of his wife’s last receptions not a single
visitor put in an appearance. Sir Anthony’s
“ geniality ” was too much for them. His “keen
intellectualism ” was evidenced by a little
idle dabbling in third-rate contemporary litera-
ture. His wife was an American, and he had
held two long Governorships in America,
but the calibre of his “studies” in “American
literature ” may be judged from the fact that he
looked upon that greasy, claptrap, “popular
universal knowledge ’’ sausage-machine, known as
the Chantauqua University, as the ideal of culture!
The man as he was was just an average sample of
the painfully narrow and effete social type which
a grovelling nation once worshipped as “the
English gentleman !” “ Only that, and nothing
more.” '
Denfehg's Re-burlat.
Editor Bulletin,- -Your correspondent, “ V.K.,”
endeavours to maintain, in The Bulletin of a
fortnight since, that Deniehy's re-burial was nob
the evidence of inconsistency on the part of the
authorities of the Roman Catholic Church that
you would have your readers believe, “V.R.”
bases his argument on three points—first, that
ecclesiastical law may, like secular law, undergo
many and important changes, and that it may be
increased or decreased in severity as occasion re-
quires ; second, that the sentence of the Church,
pronounced by her pastor, was fulfilled when
Deniehy’s remains were committed to the earth
23 years ago at Bathurst without the rites of the
Church; and, third, that the Church has, in
reality, taken no part in his re-burial, since the
ceremonies Were celebrated by the Ihanciscan
Brothers, acting, he would endeavour to show, in-
dependently. Now, as to his first point—“ the
changes of ecclesiastical law”—the law of the
Church is the same to-day on this particular
subject as it was 23 years ago ; certainly it is
placed in the hands of a bishop or priest as the
case may be, to be adjudged alike to rich and
poor—truly a great confidence to be reposed in one
man ! As to the necessity for the rigid enforce-
“™ of: the law in question, I think that even
\.R. will admit that it is as great at the pre-
sent time as it was 23 years ago—perhaps greater.
Mis second argument is equally baseless. The
ceremonies of the Church were withheld through
the action of the pastor at Deniehy’s funeral ; his
f! fv, Wa, t • U P as . an exa mple, an awful warning
to the faithful; his remains were cast into the
ground “ unwept, unhonoured, and unsung” to
await the “ corning'of his Maker and now, after
a lapse of 23 years, the once denied rites are per-
formed over his decayed remains. Why ? Has the
fact that the flesh has rotted from his frame
altered the circumstances of the case, or do the
authorities of the R.C. Church consider that a
mistake was made in at first refusing the funeral
rites, and wish to make some reparation to the
unfortunate’s bones ? To his bones 1 say, for by
“ V.R s. ’ own showing the rites in question do
not affect the soul; they are merely a “matter of
form a weapon of intimidation to the faithful,
to be used at pleasure. “ V.R’s. ” third point,
the fact that the ceremonies, at Waverley
Cemetery, were celebrated by the Franciscan
Brothers, the “ free-lance 3 ” of the Church, as he
terms them—will not bear investigation. Does he
mean to say that the Franciscan Brothers, or any
other religious order, would act, independently,
against the wishes of the Bishop in whose diocese
they were placed ? Assuredly not ! And I think,
in the present case, I am correct in saying that
the ceremonies were celebrated by the Franciscan
Brothers at Waverley Cemetery, with the full
knowledge and consent of the highest dignitary
of the RC. Church in Australia. Deniehy’s re-
burial wa’i doubtless, a grossly inconsistent act on
the part of the authorities of the R.C. Church.
The talented unfortunate was, 23 years ago, de-
prived of Christian burial by a clergyman -one of
the 1 ranciscan Order, I believe —anathemas were
hurled at the head of a gentleman who dared to
read the funeral service at the grave, and now,
afber 23 years have elapsed, his supposed remains
are carefully gathered and deposited with full
religious ceremonies i n Waver.'ey Cemetery through
the action of several well-known Sydney citizens.
Deniehy picked up in the gutter, a penniless
wretch, an unfortunate drunkard, is beneath
the .notice of the pastors of the Church —he is a fit
subject for their scorn only. At his death his
body is thrown into the condemned ground with-
out even, as far as they are concerned, a prayer ;
but when several socially influential meD, moved
by a patriotic desire, take the matter in
hand, his decayed remains are suddenly
deemed worthy of religious burial. Need more
be said on the subject? Facts speak for them-
selves ! I would leave your readers to judge
whether the authorities of the Ohurch acted
through a sense of charity or through worldly in-
fluence. Far batter, it would have been, to have
allowed poor Deniehy s remains to rest in the
Potter’s Field at Bathurst, there, among the
bones of murderers from the scaffold, to await the
sound of the last trump. And perhaps it may ba
seen, when all—rich and poor, clergyman and lay-
man alike—stand before the Judgment-3eab, that
the talented miserable has at least as honourable
a page written in the great Book of Life as have
many of the Church’s seemingly consistent (?)
followers.—Yours, E.
+
Westward 110 !
Dkak Bulletin, —Rip Van Winkle awoke 20
years ahead. The man who is transplanted from
one of the Eastern colonies to Western Australia
finds himself 50 years back. Fremantle is an
antiquated-looking place with old-fashioned stone
houses and convicts working in the streets —re-
minding one of the old-world pictures of old-time
Sydney. Perth is still worse in theee respects.
The despotic Governor lives there and is sur-
rounded by a circle of Government House toadies
known as “ the six families,” whose male members
are pitchforked into the best billets quite irre-
spective of capacity ; such things, however, are
not utterly unknown under Responsible Govern-
ment. In regard to hotels, even Eastern Aus-
tralia is not too well off; but at Perth, at the
supposed leading hotel, my first lunch consisted of
some vile fish, salt hirse, and unco iked cold
mutt an. The attendant! were two Polynesians—
an old one and a young one—in sweaty pyjama
Buits. Somebody wanted some mutton ; the
younger one commenced to saw at the leg, but
failed to get any off, and this so excited the wrath
of the elder that he addressed words to him in the
Polynesian tongue which nearly brought on bicod-
shed. Then the elder pushed the younger away,
and hacked at the joint himself until he had sawn
off a lump, which was handed to the applicant.
A small bottle of claret cost 4s. Gd. This was
Australian-grown claret, Is. Gd. anywhere else.
All power being centred in one man, who cannot
oversee everything, queer things are done daily.
For instance, a contract is let for the carrying of
mails to an important pastoral district, and the
contractor cannot read or write ; at least not well
enough to read the addresses on letters. He em-
ploys a man to drive, who cannot read or write at
all; in consequence the letters are thrown down
for every enquirer to “ take his pick, and help
himself.” This mail-route covers over 300
miles, so you can faintly imagine the consequences.
The local tax-system is unique. If you own a dog
of any sort you have to pay registration fee, as in
the East, but if your dog comes under the denomi-
nation of a “lap-dog” you have to pay an extra
per-centagefor it; and if you possess a wheelbarrow
you have no pay a tax on it as a wheeled vehicle.
Beyond taxation and the retention of all Govern-
ment billets in the hands of the “six families”
aforesaid, the Government of the “ Crown colony ”
has no idea of legislation. Telegraph-lines
have been erected through districts devoid of
habitation, whilst in the interior the traveller
is as much cut off from communication with the
outer world as he would ba if he were with Emin
Bey. Through a desolate sea-coast track, where
Grey nearly lost his life in the old days, the line
has been carried to the detriment of the pastoral
districts to the eastward, whose inhabitants have
seemingly been considered quite unworthy of con-
sideration We are in the habit of hearing of the
great pearl-shelling industry of W.A. As a
matter of fact, almost every boat is owned by
N.S.W. men and Queenslanders. The pearlers
have to pay duty on all stores transferred to their
schooners (lying some 10 miles from land),
although the goods are never landed, and would
be considered as in bond anywhere else. And they
have to pay on all imported shell, even though it
never touches land. —Yours, W. S.
The British Constitution appear j to weigh
out official woe with the greatest nicety. The
death of an Australian Governor is mourned with
the firing of 17 minute-guns, no more and no less.
A European monarch, as was very recently
shown, gets one gun for every year of his life, so
if the infant King of Spain were to suddenly ex-
pire from a surfeit of royal pap our revenue
would merely be saddled with the ’cost of two ex«
plosions.


Brief Mention.
A sonny retreat —The reformatory.
Squatters are always praying for fine
wether.
Jarndyce v. Jarndyce : The Underwood
Equity case.
The reported death of Abdurrahman turns
out to be Ameer Khanard.
Asses are admitted free under the new
Queensland tariff ! We knew it.
Ananias has had to shut his mouth awhile.
In other words, the cable has been interrupted.
THE LATE SIR ANTHONY MUSGRAVE.
More ancient municipal embezzlements
discovered in Sydney. They now call it the Town
“ Haul.”
A Brisbane newspaper says that “the
ultimate Queensland inebriate asylum is Queens-
land itself.”
Jn Yictoria a man has just shot his
mother-in-law. We thought it would come to
this, sooner or later.
Ninian Melville told the Stockton miners
he was “able to hold his own with anyone.” Most
undertakers are good at “ boxing.”
In his speech at the N.S.W. Art Society’s
dinner, Premier Parkes, while eulogising the arts,
forgot one—the art of borrowing.
P. Pie is the secretary of the Melbourne
Pastrycooks’ Union. We presume from this that
the pastrycooks make their own secretary.
John Dallas, a sexagenarian saddler,
dropped dead while engaged in a boxing match at
Lilydale (Vic.) Bashes to ashes ; box to box.
An Austrian who has just died has made
the Devil his sole legatee. Which reminds us
that, after all, old Flood did not leave Parkes any
money.
A Government “inspector of cave 3” is to
be appointed in N.S.W. Let Parkes be that
inspector. The caves are in the heads of his
colleagues.
A cow that died at Navarre (Vic.), the
other day, on being cut open was found to have
swallowed a small brass water-cock. That cow
knew her business.
A converted Maori killed his wife with an
axe at Waiapu (N.Z.) the other day. He misin-
terpreted the passage of Scripture which bade
him cleave to his wife, no doubt.
There has been a marked decrease of crime
in New South Wales, says the Comptroller of
Prisons. We quite believe this. The burglar
has gone into the silver syndicate biz.
A Sydney daily paper publishes an ad-
vertisement of a particular brand of whisky
which is alleged to have, amongst other qualities,
the merit of producing twins in families using it.
Pulsford hasn’t been heard from much
lately, but Sydney butchers have started the
“ blowing ” and “ ppoutiog ” business once more.
There's always something to make people sad and
swell the list of suicides.
The success of Edison’s new phonograph
has made the bushmen of the Australian wilds re-
joice. They will now be able to order a wax tube
charged with M'Elhone's oratory and set it going
of nights when treacherous blacks are on the crawl.
“ The Po’ice Paralysed ” was a Melbourne
Herald cross-heading in connection with the
outbreak of ’orrible murders. If the police are
very much paralysed a London drunk will be able
to reel home “ unassisted,” with his watch still in
his pocket.
Wellington (N.Z.) has enjoyed 74 earth-
quakes in the last seven years, and all the rest of
New Zealand has only had 61. It is rather rough
on the imported Governor that he should be
dumped down on about the shakiest spot in all
the southern hemisphere, but, no doubt, the New
Zealanders did it in mistaken kindness under the
impression that it would amuse him.
Mr. L. J. Brient, of the Sydney Daily
Telegraph, is a tolerably experienced smoker and
until now has rather fancied himself as a judge of
cigars. The other day in France an “American
gentleman ” gave him a cigar and asked him to
smoke the same and state his opinion of it. Mr.
Brient took the cigar and after a fair trial gave it
as his verdict that it was a beautifully-flavoured,
well-seasoned, mild Havanna. It was closely and
neatly rolled, drew freely, burnt slowly and evenly,
and gave a nice white ash that lasted until three-
fourths of the cigar had been consumed. The
Yankee said that Brient’s opinion agreed with
that of numbers of experienced cigar-smokers
whom he had consulted about the same brand, but
that all the same the cigar was made not of
tobacco but of brown paper, shaped, pressed,
coloured, flavoured and stamped with the little
veins and tracery of the true tobacco-leaf, rolled
and dried with the most perfect appliances, packed
in the regulation boxes, exported under Govern-
ment supervision and sold as a medium quality
Havanna cigar. Well, if we have wooden fhams,
why not brown-paper cigars ?
Mr- Phil. May.
Mr. Phil May, who with his amiable wife left
Australia last week by the Orizaba, did not depart
through any lack of pecuniary inducement on the
part of The Bulletin proprietary, by whom he
was engaged in London three years ago, to stay
here. He has gone from this country simply be-
cause he has an ambition above mere money. No
finer draughtsman or more gifted character artist
than Mr. May bas ever left England for “ abroad.”
But Mr. May is not content with being a mere
draughtsman—he means to become a painter.
Nine years ago, when a boy of but 15, he left
Yorkshire for London with a yearning to be
known as a distinguished member of the profession
to which he felt he had been born. He had made
sketches ever since his early childhood, but had had
no regular lessons in art; he studied from Nature
and learned as he went along. By-and-by he got
to work as a designer of theatrical costumes, then
he went on the stage as a comedian, and turning
his attention to caricature in his leisure time he
became almost as well known as any youth of 20
years could hope to be in the great world of Lon-
don, as a genius in the art of caricature. Now he
is 24 years old, and with all the world before him.
He will continue to contribute to The Bulletin,
and hopes in a year or two to be able to send to a
Melbourne gentleman who has promised him a
thousand guineas for the first picture he succeeds
in exhibiting at the Royal Academy, a painting
which will recall to the mind of Australia an inci-
dent which, when it occurred, was on all lips.
But it is not alone by Mr. May’s artistic genius
that his memory will be kept green in this
country. A recollection of his kindly and generous
nature will be affectionately treasured by hun-
dreds of sincere friends.
The Newcastle Miners' Strike.
The Bulletin acknowledges the receipt of £2 7s.
6d. from Fred Toy (South), on behalf of the New-
castle miners.
Editor Bulletin. —Dear Sir, —I have very much
pleasure in acknowledging your favour of 10th
inst., enclosing cheque for the sum of £l3 18s. —
subscriptions received by you for the benefit of
the miners on strike. May I be permitted to
tender you the thanks of the Amalgamated
Miners’ Association for the use of your columns
for the above object, as well as the donors who, by
practical action, thus endeavour to uphold equit-
able conditions for the physical toiler whose voca-
tion is plied amidst hazards and difficulties known
alone to miners.
I am yours faithfully,
James Curley,
Miners’ General Secretary.
Newcastle, 22 Oct., 1888.
THE BULLETIN FAIRLY IN IT.
Don’t know whether you happened to have twigged our own little
“feature” of the Eight-hour Demonstration last Monday. The above cartoon
was the very best our Ait department could possibly do under the circumstances,
as the managing director seemed to make a point of driving over all the biggest
cobblestones.
Melbourne Herald has increased its size
by four whole pages.
The land-boom in the Victorian capital
shows no signs of abating. On Saturday last
there were some 50 special trains put on for land
sales.
Is marriage a failure ? Not much. Brig-
ham Young, junior, is coming to Australia in the
next American mail steamer, the Mariposa. He
has about 70 mothers and he knows all about it.
The Melbourne Gas Company raised the
price of gas 3s. per 1000 several weeks before their
stock of ante-strike coal was exhausted. Em-
ployes of the Company, whose duties take them
down among the coals, have turned the gas on this
latest extortion.
One more unfortunate drowned herself in
the Yarra last week. She had been led astray in
Holy Adelaide, where her particular saint de-
serted her, poor girl! She was so young. She
was likewise so pretty. She lived in Adelaide —
and she fell. The last few sentences are after
Robert Browning and George Darrell.
It is cabled that Dr. Bergmann and Dr.
Gerhardt intend to sue Morell Mackenzie for
libel in having stated that by their treatment the
life of the late Emperor was shortened The
Bkitish Medical Journal publishes a fac simile
of the Emperor Frederick’s writing, which con-
tains the expre : sion “ Bergmann ill-treated me.”
The night before the execution of an Eng-
lish convict the culprit asked if he could have
what he liked to eat. He was answered in the
affirmative, and selected sausages. Two pounds
were bought and cooked for him, and he ate
them all.
A deputation of the Porkbutchtrs’ Asso-
ciation of Manchester and Salford recently waited
on Sir Michael Hicks-Beach to draw his attention
to the fact that horseflesh was largely sold in
their districts as ox-flesh, and poor people were
un tble to distinguish between the t wo. Another
of the moral aspects of Free Competition and the
landlord system. The roast beef of Old Eng’and !
In the year 1988 the Professor was d -
scribing Melbourne of a century back and after he
had given some particulars of a great preacher he
proceeded to illustrate his remarks by means of
Edison’s Phonograph. The words which the in
strument poured out electrified the audience, half
of whom were trampled to death in their efforts to
escape. Too late the Professor sa v the mistake.
“Wretch!” said he to h’s assistant, “Your
stupidity has ruined me. I asked you to give
them the R v. Chas. Strong and you’ve turned on
Editor Winter of the Herald.” “The language
was strong ,” replied the assistant.
The Mount Morgan Goldmine has declared
a dividend of Is. a share (or £50,000) upon its million
shares. This is from the old works only ; gold
from the new works, it is said, will not be avail-
able for a month. It is just about time that this
much advertised companv did something in the
way of dividends to justify the recent ruling
prices of its shares, which we notice have during
the last few weeks sustained a heavy fall Que ens-
land has of late years been pretty well run in the
interests of Mount Morgan ; it would be interest-
ing to read a list of the important public person-
ages who have been large shareholders in the
mine during its more troublous times.
The student of Colonial Statistics will find
some curious items in the N.S.W. Blue Book for
1887. Amongst others that Sir Alfred Stephen,
as ex-Chief Justice, receives £lB2O per annum,
while Sir Wm. Manning, as an ex-puisne Judge,
gets exactly the same amount for a much shorter
period of service and in addition draws the neat
little sum of £BOO annually for services as
Attorney-General under the old Imperial system.
Sir Alfred Stephen, after his 35 years’ service as a
Judge, receives £BOO a year less than does Sir
William for his much shorter service as Attorney
General and puisne Judge ! There is something
about this to ponder over. Another distinguished
pensioner is one Mr. Mereweather, who has care-
fully drawn £9OO a year since 1856—just 33 years !
We also note that our old friend the poet Halloran
has been drawing £BOO for the past 10 years, but
in this particular it must be remembered that the
old gentleman has inflicted his poetry upon and
given his valuable official services to a suffering
country for 60 long years.
It is said that 500 chances in “ Tattersall’s”
big sweep have been taken up by English people.
“Tatt.”is advertising N.S.W. even better than
Alphabet Bailey.
IffcheA.J.C. and Tattersall’s thought fit
to disqualify for life the rider and owner of the
Nun, why have they allowed the betting-men who
were implicated in the transaction to escape ?
Moore is deprived of his means of living, while
those who led him into his present fix are allowed
to continue their malpractices under the very
eves of the racing authorities.
CORRESPON PENCE
“Ease” (Patina): We shall always be glad bo
hear from you “R. 8.” (Melbourne): You diagnose the
d : scase very accurately, but the remedy is ill-defined.
Governments, Parliaments, politicians, elected assemblies,
nominee assemblies, all are dishonest, self-seeking, and
time-serving, but what is there to put in their place ? We
are as ready as you to vote for blank anarchy, but, un-
happily, anarchy almost always ends in despotism. We
want to found a republio, not because we have any pro-
found faith in the honesty of that same republio, but be-
cause republics are a little more honest than monarchies
and the swindling is not quite such a close monopoly....
“ Subscriber ” (Ferr mount): Your letter is very parochial,
very ungrammatical, and too badly written to decipher.
• •.. “ Basil Morris ”: The verses are pretty—pretty and
thin. Will use your “Radiant Memory.” Please send
name and address.... “ Arthur Tyson ” (Bellinger River) :
The latter is a libel. (2) The population of such towns as
Goulburn and Grafton can be readily ascertained by
reference to Gordcn and Gotch’s “ Australian Year-Book.”
“Kurrajong” (Brisbane): Verses alluded to have
already been published in Bulletin “E.W.” (Cow-
abbie): Your poem bas ideas in it, but you have no ear
fcr music “The Dodger” (Woomargania): Your com
munication from Dixon Swamp stall be duly attended to.
“ E.M.D.” (Sydney): Your verees jingle prettily, but
lines to “Home ” and “ Mother,” and things of that sort,
are hopelessly hackneyed “ Historious ” : Please don’t
dish up these “fathers” of ours who met at Runnymede.
They were a mean lot at the best, these *‘ fathers ” were...
“ Thos. Ryan ” (Manning Rivet): The Judicial Committee
of the Privy Council.... ‘ ■ Bushman ” : Letter for you
at your tddress “Snooks” (Brisbane): We can’t
tell what male the girl fly into a rage with y0u....
“A.D.E.” (Adelaide): Is that yarn about flies quite
original? —“ Girondin” (Reedy Creek): Your poetry is
not in sufficiently good verse “ Debility’’: Why not
go to a reputable doctor ? Look at the Victorian Medical
Register and select the name of someone practising in
your district. Do not fool about with people who may be
quacks and don’t fill yourself up with every medi-
cine you see advertised in the newspapers. What
is one man's medicine is another man’s poison
“ Seapool ” : Will read....“ W. Pearce”: For news the
S.M. Herald ; for politics, the Australian Star. The
best weekly is, of course, Tiie Bulletin “ L.S.”
To the fact of his having been a Roman Catholic the in-
dividual named owes the support and favours of a politi-
cal body led by the high-minded and cultured Abigail.
If, as he avers, he has gained by the change of religion, it
is certain that the denomination to which he once be-
longed has lost nothing by the transaction....“ Edward
Lennox”: Will look into the matter “Erin”: Will
consider for next week “ J.F.8.” (Victoria): Will
print next week “ J. 8.” (Maekay): Many thanks,...
"John Collins” (Vic.): Is it original?....“ Marg. H.”
(Sydney): Many thanks. Cannot you send us some com-
ment occasionally for pay ? “ J.W.” (Carlton, Melb.):
Judging from the style of your letter we are afraid it
would be of no use... “ H.M.N.” (Brisbane): Sir Anthony
Musgrave being dead we can hardly print the verses now.
As a matter of fact the picture in our last had been
through the press before Sir Anthony’s death was an-
nounced. ... “ Siroooo ” (Burwood): If the verses were not
terribly bathetic they would be exceedingly “off” on
account of their false sentiment... “ Resurgam ” (Hobart):
Thanks for the information. ..“Starline” (Newtown):
Thanks for items, whioh would be all the better were they
condensed “ James Giff ord ” (Tarrara): A mere abbre-
viation in whioh the ellipsis is re adily supplied by the
reader—“E.L.”: You can’t properly discuss the mar-
riage-question in public. The newspaper oorrespondenca
on the subject is a farce. The clargy dare not look
at the matter from a psychological and physiologioal
standpoint. Read Max Nordau's chapter on marriage in
“ The Conventional Lies of Civilisation.” “ W.W.S.” :
Doctors and nurses never agree—unless they agree too
well “E.W.H.”: Many thanks for suggestion, whioh
will be adopted next week, when also j our matter will
have a show “Lex”: You might as well ask us how
Sydney daily newspaper shareholders are interested in
the tram-lease syndicates which are now “on the job.’
“R.S.”: Is "Donald Chapman” original?
“Trotter Bethune”: Yes, we had one letter “The
Snoozer”: Next week “J.A.T.”: Please call
“H S.” (Merri Merri): We can’t guarantee the bona jidcs
of any such institution.
It is alleged that one Plunkett, a hanger-
on of the Salisbury Government, will be the new
Governor of Queensland.
The Cheshire salt-mines have been bought
by a syndicate. Now that salt is dear let us hope
that some of the Australian brewers will pub more
sugar in their beer.
The young Emperor of Germany counsels
the Pope to abandon all thought of the temporal
power and seek the alliance of the Conservative
powers. Quite right. Let the old man keep his
eye mostly on the next world and for the rest help
his church bolster up tyranny on earth.
One of the great causes of the deteriora-
tion of man in this nineteenth century is his lack
of an enthusiasm. He has no faith : hence he
withers. Anyone in search of a faith has only to
pin it on to Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, and the
grisly king of terrors is practically abolished.
Fact 1
The Bulletin’s Illustrated History of
Botany Bay has this week been issued at the
popular price of one shilling. The greater part of
the first edition of 20,000 copies having already
been absorbed by trade orders from all parts of
Australasia, it is quite evident that this, the first
attempt to present to the Australian public
in book-form a reliable history of her
past and an exposition of those principles
which since the memorable Soudan fiasco
have rendered a sentiment of nationalism
possible, has been a remarkable success. More-
over, it proves that it is not unprofitable to
tell the truth and shame the devil of tradi-
tional bygones. It proves that a book free
from the honey of lies and flattery is as readily
sold as one which prepares its clientele by pro-
pitiating the powers that be, and it proves, too,
that The Bulletin is, throughout the Australias,
recognised as the avant courier of a national
future and a glorious destiny free from the stain
of the iron-gyved Past.


Ladies’ wire dress-stands for draping; dresses on
—you can have them skirts only, plain, or with
extending skirts, full figure, plain, or with extend-
ing skirt and bust —at tna Wire Works, Eastway’s,
411 George-street, Sydney.
Everybody should use Pemell's latest best Snow wiiitf.
Patent Roller Floi r. It is the greatest success of the
age.
'iOOQEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
Visited Daily by Large and Fashionable Audiences.
The MAGNIFICENT SWIMMING BATHS —-
(Greatly Improved) are Now Ofen\
The Performing Seals and fish are FEB DAILY
At 10.30 a.m. and 4 p.m.
The Largest and Best Collection in Sydney !
SKATES and FLOORAGE FREE of CHARGE.
Saturday, at {\%>.mGreat Holiday Entertainment
Sunday Heat, Inauguration of Summer Concerts.
The Quintette String Band will perform favourite
selections of music on the Lawn during the
afternoon. The following distinguished
in an
Universally Attractive Programme, including the
immensely popular Quartette,
The Madrigal from “ The Mikado.”
No Extra Charge.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal. —“ The Tomboy” ...p. 14.
Her Majesty’s.— “ Richelieu ” „
Alhambra. —Minstrelsy „
Criterion. —“ Sithors to Grind ” ~
On Saturday last Mr. George C. Miln
drew the awful circle of his solemn church around
Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and demonstrated with
Seat force an axiom which we, when thinking of
ajor-General Richardson, are not likely to
seriously dispute, viz., that the pen is a vastly
superior weapon to the Nordenfeldt. Mr. Miln’s
acting is full of vitality and passion, and he repre-
sented the Cardinal-King of France as a very fine
old tyrant whom we could better appreciate on
the stage than in our domestic circle in the
character of a father. The one specially enjoyable
feature of Richelieu was the deft manner in which
he sat on the gilded chests of monarchs and clove
to the waist Englishers who had no right to inter-
fere with his profession as business-manager of the
French nation. The delightful way in which the
Kyardinal indulges in chiackery with the haughty
nobles of the Gallic Court, and invites them to have
their beards trimmed without the intervention of
a barber is highly commendable, and calculated
to subserve all the principles of morality, besides
being eminently .conducive to the cooling of hot
feet. Mr. Miln looks every inch a Cardinal with
a tendency to swoons, but we wish he would not
strike a nineteenth-century table-gong whenever
he wants the attendance of his blood-stained myr-
midons. Miss Louise Jordan looked beautiful
enough to undermine the tottering paternity
of half-a-dozen cardinals, and delivered her
speech in the light of a stage-moon with
considerable fervour. As Baradas, the naughty
courtier who conspires against everybody in his
professional capacity as the villain of the play, Mr.
Jewett was far and away ahead of all the rest of
the caste, but seemed a little off in his conception
of the character by wearing the flaxen wig.of virtue
instead of the raven horsehair of vice. The good
boy of the drama, Adrian de Mauprat, was
carried through to bliss and ever-afterwards on
the shoulders of Mr. Walter Howe, who affronted
all the traditions of the stage by making a hero
jump around with sable curls. It is well
known that good young men always grow
golden locks upon their baby brows, and a blonde
moustache always droops athwart their pinky
cheeks. In addition to this crime, Mr. Walter
Howe hops about a deal too much for a hero, and
puffs and snorts and gesticulates to such an extent
that everybody is sorry when Richelieu allows
him to dodge the headsman. For the rest every-
body looked pretty and wore all the gar-
ments they could seize belonging to an age
when men dressed up like wax dolls. The King
was moderately good—that is, good enough for a
king, and very much like the thing we always
imagined a king to be —and the remainder of the
characters got through the piece without missing
their cues to any appreciable extent, or sitting
down on the lime-light, or otherwise injuring the
tout ensemble of the scenic menagerie. On the
whole, “ Richelieu ” assuageth our soul.
** # #
The “Spanish Muleteers” at Sydney
Gaiety were probably so named because they don’t
even pretend to be Spanish and because their show
contains no vestige of an honest, unaffected mule,
the company preferring to present that animal in
his disguised form, and to endow him with an
aspect not his own. The show is more military
than mule, in fact, and the actors are got up as
shedders of blood at Is. a day, and they keep
things going by asking each other to sing. A
group of officers carouse out of common pint-pots
in the background ; an organisation described as
the “Military and Tramway Band” bash the
tinkling cymbal away in the rear; and the
rest is melody rather old melody, too.
Fred. England enquires about the present
location of the boys of the Old Brigade,
and pretends not to know that most of them are
in gaol for stealing wood, and the rest are dead-
broke or else paralysed. Mr. Hastings piles up
the agony of the inevitable “ Australia 1” Mr.
Clay supplies “ White wings,” and Robinson fills
up the old tale of “A Soldier and a Man”—a
combination which is often found to be of less
practical use than a cook and a boy. Harry
Carroll, Alf. Moynham, Miss Bell Stuart, and a
tired semblance of Horace Bent are the chief
remaining features of the show —excepting Miss
Nellie Symonds, a clever little actress who
ought to have better luck. There are pro-
bably lots of disguised gocd points about the
“ Spanish Muleteers,” but we are of opinion
that that combination would get on better in a
sittirg position. Under present arrangements it
stands up all the time and folds its arms across its
chest with a sternness that seriously threatens to
rend its coat asunder, and when it isn’t doing this
it is shifting from one leg to the other and looking
exhausted. Two infants in tight boots are a
pretty feature of the show, and in various other
ways the cold east wind is tempered to the shorn
audience. The stray visitor doesn’t necessarily
die in the house, and the management takes all
possible and reasonable measures to alleviate the
horrors of the scene. The business interests of
the concern are carefully looked after by a long
and clamorous human being at the door, and,
providing he doesn’t come to an untimely end by
knocking his head against the rcof, this gentleman
may yet have a long and useful career in front of
him.
## * #
Another association of disorganised ruins
appeared and sang and fled in front of a thin
audience at Sydney Academy on Monday night.
It is generally understood that they don’t intend
to repeat the performance for some time. A vague
impression prevails that this last combination of
wreckage is indirectly connected with the remains
of something which attempted to play “Fun on
the Bristol ” at the same emporium a week pre-
viously ; at all events, it has inherited all the
lugubriousness of that great sorrow upon the sea,
and the two shows have a similarity of feature
which suggests that they are brothers. The first
part of the recent hearse consisted of four songs,
and the “world-famed ventriloquist” followed
close behind. He perspired less than he did last
week, and looked a trifle less agitated, but still he
was husky and unsettled and obviously glad to get
away. The “ celebrated acrobatic song-and-dance
artiste ” then rushed athwart the programme, but
the house did not receive that famous child of
music so cordially as might have been expected.
He was dressed in a petticoat made out of two old
curtains and waved the flinders of an umbrella in
the face of society, and he was possessed of several
gags of great age. He sang in a woefully dismal
strain and turned two somersaults and then re-
moved himself off the stage. Another dark person,
who was sadder and more depressed still, warbled
a long paragraph and went away in a condition of
deep despondency. The orchestra which used to
pound out the melodious jig at the Academy has
left, but the proceedings were enlivened to some
extent by the action of a gentleman who flogged
a piano at the back of the stage. This musical
artiste stuck to his post like a Roman father, and
his noble self devotion to some extent alleviated
the general downfall.
## # *
The other Sydney shows present no ele-
ments of an amazing character. “Sithors to
Grind ” will be ground no longer at the Criterion
after Friday, and “In Chancery ” will ensue in
its stead, with Misses Myra Kemble, Maggie
Oliver, Brenda Gibson, Ida Herberte, Messrs.
AnsoD, Robert Brough, Harris, and the rest of the
mighty combination known as the Brough and
Boucicault Comedy Company to keep it afloat.
“In Chancery ” is a yelp of deathless merriment
by Pinero, and, if report can be trusted,
it is eminently suited to cheer the heart
of man. The “ Tomboy ” also falls on its
fierce red ear at Hsr Majesty’s, and i f s place is
taken by the “Miner’s Daughter a piece which
is worth 1000 “ Tomboyp,” even though they fell
into 700 tanks unto 70 times seven. This latter
is a Scriptural figger of speech. At the Crystal
Palace Rink the patient Wyburd takes a benefit
on the 31st inst., but the public mind now yearns
for the balmy aquarium and the cool, damp,
slimy seal, and the cold, collected shark, rather
than for the frantic tear of the roller-skater,
and the rinking season is abcut to close.
Meanwhile the Bondi establishment is look-
ing up in its nook among the sandhills,
and the invigorating breeze blows odours
like those of ancient Gilead over the Switchback
railway where passengers are carried across “ from
cliff to cliff without danger, daily.” It is difficult
to grow poetic over an aquarium, but the above is
a vigorous effort in that direction.
*# # *
Time writes no wrinkle on the azure
brow of F. Smith, of Sydney Alhambra. The
company has recently been reinforced by the ad-
ELECTCIO PHOTO-ENG. CO., 8 BRIDOE-ST., SYDNEY-
MISS AMY SHERWIN.
vent of Mr. A. W. Filson and Miss Lee Errol,
“ sketch and comedy artists,” and iheir come-
dietti, “ No Trespassing,” has proved a great
success. The company has made a departure
from the beaten tracks of nigger minstrelsy by
producing “ Nan, the Gcod-for-Nothing,” as a
concluding item, and it has taken well and given
pleasure to all. This is positively the last time
this well known metaphor will appear in these
columns. Anybody found attempting to insert
it at any future date will be demolished with the
office-axe.
## * #
The well known figure of Captain Gingah
will delight Australian play goers no more.
Johnny Hall, who created so many screams of
merriment in times past by his representation of
the impecunious officer, died last week of con-
sumption in Melbourne Hospital, and in this, and
many other characters, there is no man left in the
colonies to fill his place. Twenty years have now
elapsed since Mr. Hall came to Australia, and
during the whole of that period he has
been a public favourite of the deepest
dye. He was twice married, his first wife
being Miss Emily Wiseman, of the troupe known
as the Wiseman Family, and his second-
who survives him, Miss Jessie Grey, a favourite
actress whose name is well-known throughout
Australia, especially in connection with her
splendid representation of Grirolet in the “ Tam-
bour Major.” Mr. Hall was one of the great host
of high-class artists who make little profit out of
their art. The large sums which he realised from
time to time were invariably swallowed up by un-
lucky speculations, and he was alternately
rolling in luxury and dead- broke. He began life
in a circus, and by the aid of genius _ alone he
reached the highest rank in his profession. All
through his career he was a Bohemian to the core,
and with his death a brilliant tradition has been
consigned to the property-room of oblivion. His
last appearance was as the first grave-digger in
“Hamlet” at Melbourne Princess, and when he
abandoned the part his own grave was nearly
ready.
#* * *
Charles Warner has purchased the Austra-
lasian rights of “ Captain Swift,” the drama with
which young Haddon Chambers has lately made a
name in London.
#* # *
Mr. Melton Prior, special war artist for
the Illustrated London News, delivered two
lectures in Melbourne Town Hall last week. They
were—in The Bulletin language of truth—dark
and dismal failures, the second lecture being so
poorly attended that the whole audience was in-
vited to contract itself into the front seats, irre-
spective of petty distinctions as regards prices
paid for admission. Mr. Melton Prior opened the
proceedings by signifying his deep disgust at so
few people being there, but after about five
minutes of lecture the few who were there
found themselves pondering over the ques-
tion of why they hadn’t stopped away.
Mr Prior is an aggressive, bald-headed,
little gentleman in glasses. His entertainment
consists of showing enlarged reproductions of
sketches on a sheet, while he reads a disjointed
sermon explaining what it is all about. The
matter of this sermon is drivel, interlarded with
nauseous references to our soldier Prince (the
Duke of Connaught) and the British Crown. But
the subject is too contemptible to dwell upon. It
is not a matter for regret that Mr. Prior was
frozen hard in Melbourne. We want no more war
correspondents and special artists to spread the
miserable gospel of Guns and Glory in this
hemisphere. Battlefield “ glory ”is an iniquitous
bubble, the professional soldier is a sin in the
sight of God, and campaigns are a bloodstain'd
shame.
** # *
If Mr. Alfred Dampier were a minstrel
entertainment then Melbourne Alexandra might
be more generally full up than it is at present,
nevertheless things are looking healthy as times
go. On Saturday the company held a mirror up
to Nature in “The Green Lanes of England,” a
drama which contains one well-drawn character
and a quantity of appalling incident. Mr. Alfred
Dampier, in his old part of Gentleman George,
threw a glamour of reality over several occurrences
that stood in urgent need of his moral support,
and when he declaimed “ The Charge of the
Light Brigade,” he carried the whole house
away on a whirlwind of passion. But the
voice of this sterling actor is a continual feast.
Messrs. Boothman, Baker, Stark, and Watkin
Wynne (there is a Sir Watkin of that ilk) are
also intelligent and intelligible, but Mr. Edmund
Holloway distinctly fails to make himself heard in
the large space. A certain want of go holds back
several of the ladies, and even Miss Lily Dam-
pier discounts the merit of her performance by
dropping into the Jenyns baritone. After this
week the management will set up William Shake-
speare on Friday nights, plays to be voted for by
ballot like members of Parliament.
#* # #
“ Hands Across the Sea ” booms along as
usual at the Royal, but several other shows are
suffering from Exhibition. The bright Bijou
comedies —not sufficiently inartistic to fetch the
gods—breathe their last this (Thursday) evening.
To-morrow Titheradge takes a benefit in “ David
Garrick,” and on Saturday sweet “ Sophia,” whose
father persists in smelling as he chooses on his own
premises, will take up the thread of success where
it was dropped a few months back. The Opera
House was the scene of another drama on Satur-
day night, but nobody appeared to be much
affected by this circumstance except certain mem-
bers of the new Italian Opera Company, who sat
in the dress-circle and lost themselves in be-
wildering mazes of inscrutable plot.
*# # *
At the Princess’s a sorrowful event will
transpire on Friday, the 19 th, when beauteous
Essie Jenyns appears for positively the last time.
As a matter of hard fact popular interest in this
fair blossom has been falling off slightly, owing
to a widespread rumour that her voice and manner
become monotonous after long acquaintance.
Which again reminds us that Essie generally
sacrifices sense to sound in her delivery of blank
verse. Her long speeches leave no more im-
pression on the mind than does the echo of a song
sung afar off. But, on the other hand, several
members of her suite, notably Mr. Stewart, have
of late put a pleasing polish on their diction. The
full strength of the Triumvirate’s comic opera
company opens here on Saturday in “Olivette.”
## # #
The Coghill Brothers and John Gourlay
have fixed up a taking trifle at St. George’s Hall
called “ The Brook.” An introductory act leads
up to a prettily-staged picnic at which everybody
obliges with a song, and sometimes several of
them oblige at one time. Finally, the picnic con-
cludes in a thunderstorm, and the curtain de-
scends on a heavy shower of real rain. It is more
impressive than the tank.
## # *
Mr. Simonsen starts his Italian season at
Melbourne Opera House on Saturday. “Ermani ”
is advertised.
## # #
At the Adelaide Royal, Mr. Darrell’s
“ Mystery of a Hansom Cab ” has done a week,
and, although the business has not been altogether
brisk, the drama has merit in it. Bland Holt,
with a big company, opens in “ Taken from Life,”
and George Darrell wends his way to Broken
Hill. The Jungfrau Kapelle have had a real good
time of it at the Town Hall, considering all
things. Hiscocks and Friedmann have an excel-
lent show at Garner’s Theatre, but the people will
not turn up as they should —silence and repent-
ance prevail.
*# # *
In a general sort of way we don’t like
things presided over by saints, and the recent
performance of Byron’s comedy, “ A Hundred
Thousand Pounds,” by St. Joseph’s Literary and
Dramatic Society at Newtown (Sydney), confirms
us in this sentiment. We don’t profess to know
much about St. Joseph, but judging of him by the
capacity of his followers we conclude that he was
no great shucks as a comedian. Beyond the fact
that a number of young men were visible stagger-
ing about beneath gigantic moustaches made of
the inside of a mattress, there was nothing in the
show that anyone could get hold of, but the audi-
ence being in a good-natured mood no deaths
ensued.
#* * *
Melbourne Theatre Royal took close on
£lBOO gate-money last week.
## # #
A correspondent of the Hawk (London)
prophesies a big English success for Essie Jenyns,
“ if her step father doesn’t play the lover, as he
persisted in doing here.”
## # *
At the last performance of the London
Gaiety Company, Fred Leslie was the recipient of
a bouquet consisting of a huge cauliflower em-
bedded in a fringe of carrots and onions.
Spring’s Delusions.
Ip there is anything in Nature which can awaken
enthusiasm and arouse the heart of men and
women, it is to be found at the present season of
the year. Poets have sung about it; artists have
§one wild over it, and meanwhile the beautiful
pring has gone on luring people to their graves.
Under every blade of springing grass is the germ
of death. Beneath every budding tree lurks the
demon of disease. It is not necessary to enquire
why this is so; it is sufficient to know that it is
so. And that it is so, the languid feeling of
nearly every individual amply shows. The
sluggish condition of the blood; the malarial
poisons which are drawn in with every breath ;
and the germs of disease that are absorbed in in
numerable ways all prove the dangerous nature of
the season that divides the Winter and Summer.
But the query naturally arises : “ How can
this be prevented ? ” The Spring comes every
year and must be met. It may be dangerous, but
how can it be avoided ? There is plainly but one
way, and that is by keeping the system in the
proper condition to repel these influences. Nor is
this an easy undertaking. Indeed, for years it has
been a study, not only with the public, but with
the most eminent physicians, how this most desir-
able end might be attained. If the vitality is
weak, the poisons in the atmosphere have an easy
task. If, on the contrary, the vitality is strong,
these evil tendencies are of no effect, but are re-
pelled frcm the system and fall away harmless.
It is not our purpose to lay down a rule of action
for anyone, but observation and the careful ex-
perience of hundreds have shown that for putting
the body in a condition where its vitality can
throw off the enemies of health and retain its
strength, there is nothing equal to Warner’s safe
cure. This remedy is not a cure-all, but it
possesses the unquestioned power of fortifying the
system, and so invigorating it that it can resist
the inroads of disease and death. Can anything
more be asked of any medicine ? When the body
is bowed by pain ; when the food fails to assimil-
ate ; when a dull, laflguid sensation is experienced
and life seems a buixlen ; when appetite is a thing
unknown, or must be coaxed to have even an
existence, and when something must be done in
order that life may be even endurable, if a pala-
table preparation can be secured that will remove
all these evils, is it not a blessing ? It is just here
that the evils of Spring should be met and can be
overcome. It is not a privilege but a duty, and
one which will take no denial. Procrastination
may be pardoned when only money is at stake,
but when human life and happiness are involved
it is too serious a matter to admit of trifling. It
is then that some action must be taken that may
avert impending disaster and avoid Spring’s
subtle dangers.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW THIS
most mms upuos
IN THX
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES,
Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patbntbd Arti
hcal Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing oures have been effeoted. Send for 132
paged illustrated book containing “ Essay on Deafness,’
illustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
from Dootors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
oured by these Drums, and who recommend them.— Dr.
VIOHOLBON. St W tj.Tilam Rrerwr.
Exhibition Visitors ought to oarry handkerchiefs beoause
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Pkrfumbry Co.’s
Stands in the IHelbonrne Kxbibitfou. All Melbourne
It nc nt
PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hoclnogp. 410 George Street, ne*r King Street.
A Finished Crime.
[FROM TICK FRENCH OF JEAN RICHEPIN.]
For ten years before the day when he became a
rascal Oscar Lapissote had dwelt upon the sixth
floor of a tenemenb house in the Rue St. Denis.
Lost in the midst of some thirty or more locataires,
known only by one of his numberless pseudonyms,
he had for a friend a gossiping bonne, who re-
counted to him, when opportunity offered, all her
own and her mistress’ little affairs. This mistress,
R ing an aged, semi-invalided widow of consider-
able wealth, who had only been there some two
months altogether, was quiet, retiring, and with
the exception of the physician who attended her
as much of a stranger in the city as in the house
Thus matters stood when one evening, as
Lapissote was going out after visiting a friend, a
patient in the Pitie, he recognized lying in one of
the outer wards the bonne of the old window,
whom for several weeks, he remembered that he
had not seen. She called him. and he entered to
spr'ak to her. “ She was very ill,” she told him,
after talking a while, “ and had been absent from
her employer's nearly a month. Her place was
temporarily filled by the concierge, assisted by a
charwoman—her mistress was too infirm to visit
her—she was desolate 5”
“ Of course, ” said Omar, “ you are lonely—you
wish to see her ?”
“Yes, but it is not so much for that I am
desolate; it is because lam afraid that madame,
should I die here, will read the letters that I have
received while with her and scorn me when I am
gone !”
“Why should she scorn you?” asked Oscar,
surprised.
‘ ‘ Listen, ” answered the bonne; “I will tell
you everything, for you loved me once ; it is
passed now, so long ago that I can speak to you
frankly and ask assistance. Ah, well, it is this i
I had another lover in the house, nob a gentleman
like you but a man of my own rank, the coach-
man of the lower floor. If madame knew it I
should be lost for I have done such evil things
for him, the scoundrel. I was mad, but you see
he was the father of my child ; he promised to
recognize it, to marry me ; it was for that I did as
he wished. He lied. I know it now when too
late, but the little one should not suffer for my
sins, I have written to madame that I had a
child ; she is good, she will cafe for it—that is if
my papers, are burned beforehand. She would be
pitiless if she knew my guilt, and that he, the
child, was the son of a gougardine and a thief —”
“ Wait, my friend, wait l” cried Oscar ; “you go
too fast; you confuse everything; be more ex-
plicit. _ If I am to aid you, and I ask nothing
better if possible, you must tell me clearly from
the beginning ! ”
And at the moment Lapissote was honest, not
thinking of crime, and yielded simply to the
curiosity of a writer, a professional scenting a
romance and preparing copy.
“I must be very brief,” replied the bonne. “ I
fell, as I told you, without warning on the street,
with an attack of apoplexy. They brought me here
to the hospital. I was unable to be moved and
madame was forced to leave me here, but she does
not and must not know what it is that is worrying
me — my papers, a packet of the coachman’s
letters, villainous letters, full of wickedness that I
have done at his council, of which he speaks and
thanks ine ; of things he has carried away, of the
money I have stolen—yes, stolen from my mistress
for him. I ought to have burned them, but I
kept them because they were full of promises for
me and the little one. I feared him and that if
master of those papers all would be ended for me.
To guard them from him I confined them to the
the care of my mistress as family papers. They
ari> in her secretary, in a drawer—l have the key.
I dare not trust the concierge to bring them to
me. There is no one, no. one, I say, to do me a
service but you, if you will be so kind ! ”
“Certainly, Blanche ; but tlie service, what is
it ? ”
“ To bring them to me.”
“ I, my girl, I ? How ? ”
“ Very easily. Every evening by ten o’clock
madame has taken the chloral that makes her
sleep. She sleeps heavily and alone. The woman
who is in my place leaves her as soon as dinner is
served and cleared. Madame, fearing thieves,
has told no one but me that she takes this sleeping
draught (in me, poor soul, she had every confi-
dence). Enter then; she will not hear you.
Secure the package and bring it to me, but enter
by the staircase of service, that the concierge may
not see you. Promise me to do this, I beseech, I
entreat !■”
“You are mad, Blanchette, mad and foolish.
How could I pass the door of the apartment or
open the secretary ? ”
“ The keys to the staircase and kitchen by
which I enteied are here, also the key to the little
drawer and a duplicate—to my shame I confess
it—to the secretary itself. Take them and bring
me my letters, that I may die in peace.”
Lapissote accepted thp keys like a man in a
dream, his eyes fixed, a, sudden pallor upon his
features, the muscles of his face twitching ner-
vously. The feasibility, nay, possibility, of the
coveted crime had dawned upon him like a revela-
tion. This woman dead it would be easy to
execute.
“I choke—l strangle!” cried Blanchette
hoarsely ; the long conference had exhausted
her. “ Give me a drink—some "water to wet my
lips!” The dormitory lighted by a single taper
was in shadow, the night watch absent, the in-
mates of neighbouring beds wrapped in slumber.
As if to do her bidding, Lapissote leaned over
the sick one, and with a quick movement drew
the pillow across her face and held it there with
a hold of iron. When at last he lifted himself and
readjusted the clothmg, Blanchette was dead—•
asphyxiated—and you would have said, to look at
her, by anobher stroke. After this the murderer,
with the thread of a cat passed into the corridor,
gained the postern and thence the sfreet, all un-
seen. It was 20 minutes past 9,. By rapid walk-
ing Lapissote was in the Rue St. Denis as the
clocks struck 10. He was in excellent time—the
widow would be well asleep.
Situated on the second floor, it was the work of
a moment to mount the stairs, enter by the kitchen
door, gain the sleeping-chamber, and finish the
mistress as expeditiously as he had finished the
maid ; this completed, to turn his attention to the
secretary. In the middle drawer were bills and
title deeds ; in the right one rol's of gold and
silver pieces—4o,ooo francs all told —with which
he crammed his pockets. The letters were there
also, in the reces3 to which Blanchette had given
him the key. He carried them to the fender and
set them afire, taking care, however, to leave in-
tact a sufficient quantity of the most compromis-
ing scraps to pDce out the story. A few of them
well selecbed would be all that was necessary to
reveal everything ; the child’s existence,; the pro-
vocation to theft, the thefts committed—in short,
the connecting-link between the motive and the
crime. Leaving them arranged to convey the
idea of hurried destruction, and the rest of the
apartment as he he had found it, he departed as
he had come, by the stairs of service, and began
to stroll the streets again with the tranquil,
meditative air of a dreamer. Decidedly Oscar
Lapisote had not deceived himself—he had a
genius for crime and worked with the hand of a
master.
A crime, to be truly a finished! one, requires
that its author should be unknown, likewise un-
punished ; but the immunity is net complete until
Justice secures and condemns a culprit— Vue or
false matters little. O-car Lapissote's crime,
therefore, was the perfection of arb, for Justice
was not at fault a moment in discovering the mur-
derer. It was the coachman, of course. The
fragments of the burned letters proved it. Be-
sides, who else save the coachman could have
known the conditions so favourable to crime ?
Who else have keys to the service stairway, the
kitchen door, the secretary itself ?' Beginning by
robbing the widow in concert with the bonne,
was it not logical that he had cleared the step
ROYAL AMENITIES.
"H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, who is now on a visit to Emperor Francis
Joseph, is going on a chamois hunting excursion with the Crown Prince Rudolph.”—
Daily Paper. — But it’s no use; corpu’ency runs in the family.
between thief and assassin ?
Besides this, his antecedents were bad ; he was
unable to tell his whereabouts at the time of the
crime, and he protested too fervently. Every-
thing was against him. He was tried, condemned
and guillotined, judgep, jury, advocates, and
journals uniting in a harmonious chorus as to the
fitness of his end. There was but one obscure
point in the whole chain of evidence—what had
he done with the money the widow had certainly
possessed? “ Hidden it,” said eve»yone, “after
killing her.” In short, if ever criminal was recog-
nised guilty of his crime, this one was.
( “Consciousness of a good actioD,” they say,
“gives a peace profound !” Few people, however,
have the courage to admit that immunity from
punishment for one as bad produces the same feli-
city. It is true, nevertheless, as rascals will tell
you. Imagine then how Oscar Lapissote was
enabled to enjoy his double murder, and taste its
sweetest fruits iu absolute serenity. Itsmorse and
terror passed him by as completely as glory had
done. He experienced but one troublesome senti-
ment that increased hour by hour, and that senti-
ment was pride, the pride of an artist. That which
deadened him to all moral consideration was
precisely the perfection of his work, the know-
ledge that he has shown himself truly flawless;
and in this, for a while at least, his thirst for
superiority found ample gratification. Still he re-
mained as before commonplace, obscure, and
nearly unknown, despite the fact that he had used
his ill-gotten fortune to fete the critics and force
the doors of the journals and reviews. The public
continued cold and |car ping. “His essays were
tiresome, his verses fifth-rate, his criticisms
marked with the brand of stupidity.” Even the
profession knew Anatole De3erole, the pseudonym
he was using at the time, as a man of more means
than brains, and unanimously refused him an
atom of genuine talent. To convince him of his
stupidity, however, was impossible,
“It would be very different,” he said to him-
self, “ if I co ild recount my chef d’oeuvre. Anatol
Heserole is doubtless a fool, Osca r Lapissote was
noi; ha was a genius, though his great achieve-
ment, powerfully conceived, executed, and success-
ful, is yet unheralded ! That day I had an in-
spiration, a true one; it is that which makes
things perfect. All the same, it would have been
better to have written it instead of executing it;
I should now be celebrated, for I should have
written what all the world would desire to read
a story, the only one of its kind—the story of a
finished crime.”
This notion became at last a possession,- that he
struggled against for ten years, allowing himself
to be devoured by it more and more, at first
chiefly by regret that he had not thought of and
related it as a dream instead of an action, and
then by the desire to relate that action as a dream.
That which haunted him was not the demon of
perversity (that forced the personages of Edgar
Poe to cry aloud their secrets), it was a mania for
literary renown, an inordinate craving for sensa
tional fame. Like a sublte counsellor who, one
by one, pursues and conquers all objections, his
fixed idea pursued and conquered him with a
thousand reasonings.
“ Do it, Deserole,” it urged persistently j “ycu
are safe behind the shield of justice. The crime
is old, the incidents forgotten, the culprit dead
and buried, his head between his legs It will
seem, your story, by an ancient judicial history,
artistically arranged. You can put in it all the
thoughts and rancors that pushed you to commit
it, all the skill and ability used in its conception
and execution,, all the circumstances furnished by
that marvellous inventor who styles himself
Chance. You alone are in the .secret of the work,
no one will know you have drawn it from reality
—they will see in it but the efforts of a wondrous
imagination—you will be a great writer, as you
have wished to be, revealing himself late, but by
a master stroke. You will enjoy your crime as
never criminal enjoyed it before. Recount it then
earlessly, without circumlocution, in all its
majestic horror. Oast aside your pseudonym that
has the air of being ycur namp, and sign your
name, that has the air of a pseudonym. It is not
Antoine < f uirland, Jacques de la Tour, or even
Anatole Desero.le, that trio of unknowns, but you
yourself. Oscar Lapissote, who should be illus-
trious ! ”
One evening then, in consequence of this de-
cision, he seated himself before his desk, his brain
on fire, his hand burning, and wrote with a dash
tho history of his crime, his miserable debiit and
struggles, his Bohemian life, his multiplied
failures, his rancors, revolts, and idea of revenge
upon the actual for the sins of the chimera,
that had led him adray—in short, in this romance
of merciless psychology his soul was laid bare.
Drawn with sober strokes but frightful clearness,
he depicted the meeting and the murder at the
Pitie* the scene in ths Rue Saint Denis, the death
of the ‘ culprit,” the triumph of the true mur-
derer, the cause that had decided the author—
given with curious and satanic detail—to publish
his crime ; winding up. with an apotheosis of Oscar
Lapissote, and signing his. name Oscar Lapissote,
at the bottom of the confession.
“A Finished Crime” appeared first in the
Revue des —and scored, as a line or two from
the leading critiques of the day will show you, an
instant success, Gille, of La Dame Blanche, de-
daring that M. Deserole had at last given then!
lus true measure, and in abandoning petty jour-
nalism for the field of fiction his former failures
were amply atoned for. All of them to a man
lauded “ The <Jrime ” to the skies and agreed that
the skill of the writer had turned a vulgar assassi-
nation into an astonishing work of combination
and psychological dissection. Gaboriau sank into
insignificance !
Nevertheless, in all this torrent of popular
applause, two things disclosed themselves that
greatly irritated Oscar _ Laphsotte—first that
every one persisted in taking his true name for a
false one and continued to call him Anatole
Deserole j second, that they talked too much of
imagination, and failed to bring forward with
sufficient prominefice the probability and natural-
ness of his recital. He was tormented by it to
the extent of making him forget his new-born
glory. Artists are always sensitive, and thus one
day as a friend was felicitating him upon the suc-
cess of his wonderful romance he responded coldly
that his congratulations would be more suitable
>f he recognised that his work was Pot a romance,
but a fact, as recounted. “It was I, ’he added#
carried away by arrogant pride, “ I who com-
mitted it! ”
“ Charming ! cried his hearer, “ charming! ”
and the next day the papers were filled with the
whim of the great Anotole Deserole, who wished
to pass himself off for an assassin. Oscar Lapisotte
was furious ; in saying what he had he had done
he had been led into by irritation and pride ;
now, however, his prestige was slipping from
hina—his word questioned ; he renewed his con-
fession to all the friends he encountered on the
boulevards. At first they considered it droll,
next monotonous, at the end of the week the
behaviour of a fool. This was too much —his
prestige must be regained—he declared the facts
in the public cafes with the same result. “So be
ib,” said he, “so be it —I have told you the truth
you refuse to see it—then I will prove it—all
Paris shall know 7 who Lapisotte is ! ”
True to word, the following morning he ap-
peared before the .luge d’lnstruction who, ten
years before, had conducted the affair of the Hue
eb- Denis, “Monsieur,” said he, “I come to con-
stitute myself yoi'ir prisoner. lam Oscar Lapis-
sote!”
“It is useless to continue, M. Deserole,” cried
the judge. “Your book and the whim with
which you have amused us for a week past are
equally familiar to me. I congratulate you. An
author myself once, I appreciate the feeling that
induces you to try the effect of pleasantry upon
me also. It gives me pleasure to know you. ”
“ But I tell you lam Lapiesote. I committed
the crime. I can prove it.”
“ Good, monsieur, good ! lam amiable —I lend
myself to the play. But before you proceed to
prove it allow me to say a word. I have read
your book, as I told you, and I wish to point out
as a friend, of course-—that it has faults—grave
ones. In imagination it is rich, singularly so 5
well plotted, and well expressed; but you have
passed the boundaries permitted to the fancy of
writers. Certain of your circumstancea sin against
probability ”
“ But I tell you ”
“ Allow me, allow me—l pain yen, perhaps,
but surely you can see, though latitude must be
given in matters of crime, that yours is not
naturally combined. The meeting with the
bonne at the Pitie is too much a chance ; the
chloral—pardon the humour—hard to digest ;
other circumstances the same—your famous
crime, in short, impossible. As a writer, M.
Deserole, I admire you greatly ; as a criminal—”
“You shall admire me, too ! ’ and with a howl of
rage Lapisote precipitated himself upon his
critic, his eyes bloodshot, bis lips flecked with
foam. But for the timely arrival of assistance,
brought by the hubbub, a third victim would
have gone to keep the company of the other two.
Ten days later he was carried to the Charenton
as a full-fledged lunatic, the journals of the city
coming out with flaring headlines descriptive of
the sad event.
“Behold,” said they, “a man whom genius
crazed. A modern Pygmalion in love with his
own creation. Anatole Deserole allowed success
to turn his brain.” He was not crazy, however,
as we kno w too well, and his suffering was all the
more acute because of ib.
“ I should not mind it,” he cried continually*
“ not even to be guillotined, if for a moment they
would recognise the truth, and give me a taste of
the glory that is justly mine; but they will not;
in death even I shall pass for Deserole, I, Lapis-
sote, the man of nerve, decision, action !”
At last, by force of living in a fixed idea and in
the company of madmen, Lapissote’s brain was
truly turned, and just at the moment when he
ended by believing himself truly Deserole, and
that he had never assassinated any one, the
Paculty declared him cured.
Two weeks ago he died in Paris, convinced that
his crime was a fiction and that he had dreamed
instead of acting it.
Extract from the sworn testimony of Con-
stable W. O’Hooligan, of the Sydney foorce : “I
was the only person in the house at the time ex-
cept another policeman who was outside.”
The late Judge Meymott was doing the cir-
cuit in a certain N.S. W. city. The men of wigs
and gowns had been well in among the guineas
and were resolved on having some fun at the
Judge’s expense They accordingly chartered an
old woman (an ancient celebrity) for the purpose ;
her recompense to consist of a silk dress and a
dozen of champagne. According to instructions
she entered the breakfast-room just as they were
all assembled. “ A word wid yer anner, if ye
plaze.” “ Well, my good woman, what is it?’
“Just come aside, sorr, it’s not for all ears.”
Drawing close to the legal dignitary, as though
intending to whisper something, she imprinted a
smacking kiss on his cheek and bounced from the
room with a ghoulish “Ha! ha !ha ! Oi've won
me silk dress ! ”
A shooting case came on in a Queensland
court the other day, and the customary police-clod
“shwore” to certain cartridges which he found
on the prisoner. He hadn’t examined the caret
ridges, but he felt morally convinced they wer-
the right ones. When the lawyer asked how he
knew that the substance in the cartridges was
gunpowder at all, he replied, with the confidence
of an ancient martyr, “ Bekase it’s in the cart-
ridges.” Did he know the taste of gunpowder?
No,, he wasn’t aware it had any taste. Could he
distinguish gunpowder from coal ? Yis, av coorse
he could, and was prepared to do it any day.
Then the lawyer drew himself up several feet, and
prepared to crush this beaming witness with one
fell blow. “ Now, sir,” he said, with awful deter-
mination, “will you tell me how you would dis-
tinguish a quantity of powder from a ton of coal?”
“By the soize ov them, sorr.”


Study your own Interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whiti
Patjnt Rollsr Floor. It Is made In the oolony Irom the
best oolonial wheat by the newest patented maohinery
The quality ie exceptionally crood. and the price very low
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Fishing-Nets, all sorts and sizes, i
Depot, Fastway’s, 411 George streel
the Fishing
Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell'a Snow-whitr Patknt
Rolt<kr Flour, and your bread will be an white as snow.
Personal Items.
One of Graham Berry’s sons keeps race-
horses.
Sir Anthony Musgrave died on his wife’s
birthday.
The plucky and lucky Mr. George Lansell
has strfick gold at 2400 ft. at Sandhurst (Vic.)
The late John Tait left his portrait in oils
by Gladstone Eyre to the Victorian Racing Club.
Miss Speney, the well-known artist, has
married Major Gilbert Mair, one of the “ Heroes
of N.Z.”
J. Mann, a Napier (N.Z.) hospital-porter
has come into a fortune of £130,000. Happy
Mann.
M. Sala, who is described as a brother of
the great journalist, George Augustus Sala, is
running marble quarries in N.S.W.
The outward visible signs of poor Sir
Anthony Musgrave’s greatness—his cocked hat
and sword —were placed on his coffin.
When “the Jaynil” is done with
Deniehy’s monument he had better start with one
for Charles Harpur, just to keep his hand in.
From the accounts given in the daily
papers it would appear that Sir Anthony Mus-
grave died from poisoning of some kind or other.
Bishop Kenyon, of Adelaide (S.A.) says
colonial statesmen are not religious. The Bul-
letin puts Haynes forward to confute this state-
ment.
Sir J ulius Vogel is not, it saems, engaged
upon a novel, but upon “ An Autobiography of an
Adventurous Life; or How I Made my Mark in
a Colonial Parliament.”
The oldest coroner in N.S.W., and, for
that matter, in Australia, is Dr. Maurice Isidore
Blake, of Yass, who has held crowners’ quests and
sat on bodies for over 40 years.
The Prince of Wales has 17 brothers-in-
law, 1G uncles, 57 cousins, and 58 nephews and
nieces. It’s the 17 brolhers-in-law that loom up
upon his otherwise cloudless sky.
Ratu Timothy, just deceased, would
have been King of Fiji had his father not abdi-
cated in favour of Her Gracious. He was
educated at the Wesleyan College, Sydney.
Mr. G. W. Taylor, a wealthy Melbourne
speculator and religionist, has given £50,000 of
superfluous lucre towards establishing a congrega-
tional college affiliated to the local University.
“Fritz” Emmett has paid £lOOO for a
dog. That dog is not half so fine an animal as
the one which used to be seen regularly by a cer-
tain actor we once knew when he had the jim-jams.
Neal Dow, the originator of the Maine
Liquor Law, is now in his 85th year, hale and
hearty and kicking against the “cussed drink”
as fiercely as ever. “ Those whom Bacchus loves
die young.”
Chang, the Chinese giant, who visited
Australia some years ago, is an opulent merchant
in Shanghai. It will be remembered that Chang
married a Sydney lady, sister to a well-known
public official. a
One of the biggest insults ever levelled
at any woman by a man professing to bear her
friendship is the dedication to Miss Alice Corn-
well by Fergus Hume of that trashy book,
“Madame Midas.”
All the belongings of Joe Smith, the Nor-
man Prophet, are religiously preserved in Salt Lake
City, from his umbrella down to the fender. The
latter is kept, so says a negro convert, because it
is de fender ob de faith.
Sir Arthur Palmer, President of the Legis-
lative Council, hasbeensworninas Acting-Governor
of 'Queensland. It is understood that during his
term of office Sir Arthur will entirely suspend the
use of bulloeky language.
Dr. Charles Mackay, who wrote “ Cheer
boys, eheer,” and other songs which are known
wherever the English tongue is spoken, is now in
his ,73rd year, very poor, very ill, but bright,
•cheery and industrious as ever.
Zola says that the Vizetelly prosecutions
will rally friends round him in France. People
will ask what business has England, with her
Shakspeare, her Byron, her Fielding, to set up a
puritanical standard in literature.
Apropos of Mrs. Mona Caird’s now
notorious review article, “ Is Marriage a Failure ?”
a London paper warbles—
I Caird for nobody, no not il,
And nobody Caird for me.
The erstwhile slighted Benjamin has been
re-elected Mayor of Melbourne by his brethren.
This is a delicate mark of sympathy with the
worthy man in his disappointment at not getting
a Jubilee K.C.M.G.-ship last year.
Bir Anthony Musgrave is the second
Queensland Governor who has died in harness,
Governor Blackall being the first. Sir Arthur
Kennedy, a former Governor, died in the Red Sea
immediately after resigning the same governor-
ship.
Air. Frederick Greenwood, who retires
from St. James’ Gazette because he objects to
being regarded as the instrument of the new pro-
prietor, one Steinkqpf, a German Jew, was
Thackeray’s successor in the editorship of
COKNKILL.
Sir Anthony Musgrave was a bosom-friend
and intimate associate of Kossuth, the Hungarian
•patriot, when the latter was in exile in England.
Had Sir Anthony been born under any Constitu-
tion but that of England he would have lived and
died a rebel.
Mr. Christopher Sykes, the whilom chum
of the Prince of Wales, has gone to the dogs ; he
is reduced to selling off his library. However,
any man who took very much pleasure in the
company of the Prince of Wales would probably
not trouble much over his library.
Mr. Henry Vizetelly, the London pub-
lisher who has been committed for trial for pub-
lishing close translations of Zola, is the Vizetelly
who, during the Franco-Prussian war, attained so
much celebrity by sketches made in besieged Paris
and sent out of the city by balloon-post.
The Governor of Greenland receives his
supplies annually, and the slip th ‘ - 5- tkm
brings him also the daily paptm of it . mhn.
He does not let curiosity or impatience m ster
him, but first sorts the papers so that the c ates
run consecutively and then, beginning with the
earliest, reads one paper each morning for the
following 12 months.
Mr Banzon, the “Jubilee Juggins,” who,
before he came of age and into his fortune of
£(100,000 two short years ago, lived for a time in
Sydney and freely distributed long-dated paper,
all of which he has since taken up, has been
SHOO r '^' a^ersa^'s > London, as a defaulter for
Mr. G. C. Miln, the latest Shakespearian
exponent on the Sydney boards, was atone time
a Unitarian clergyman with a screw of £2,000 a
year—at Chicago. Finding, however, in the
limited area of the pulpit small scope for his
latent talent, he forsook it for the stage a few
years ago.
The Duchess of Montrose’s example has
been copied. Sir William O’Malley, a rich
baronet, aged 75, has married at Dublin Miss
Caroline Favey, a damsel of IG. The baronet
advertised for a housekeeper, and was so taken
with Miss Caroline that he at once proposed and
was accepted.
Benjamin Talbot, one of the whitest men
of Western N S W., suicided a few days ago. He
was not born to be great, but to be loved by all
who knew him, When the last tribute was to be
paid to Ben. there flocked to his funeral old men,
young men, and little children, A sad ending to a
bright career.
An alleged natural brother of John Bright,
the veteran politician of England, is dam-sinker,
shearer, and fencer about the North-west of
Queensland. He is younger than John, and the
features are like enough to support the allegation.
The strongest reason for taking the statement as
true is, however, that the knockabout Queens-
THOSE SHEARS.
“His Excellency Lord Carington visited Danlop wool-shed this morning.
His Excellency expressed great satisfaction at the manner in which W olaeley's
sheep-shearing machines are worked on that station. Hia Excellency was asked
to shear a sheep with ope of the machines, which he did in a very creditable
manner.”—Recent S M. HERALD Jelegram.
lander is in receipt) of regular remittances from
the Bright household.
“Oaida” ha 3 refused to meet Mr. Can-
ninghame Graham, the Socialist MP., on the
ground that “he is a dangerous member of
society.” Judging from her writings, there are
few fathers who would like their daughters to
meet the famous novelist, and on precisely the
same grounds.
When picnickers, passing Hawarden, jvant
to get a look at Gladstone, they go to the front of
the house and start the old man’s favourite hymp.
Before the singers are half through, Gladstone
appears and thanks them in an interesting speech.
The expedient generally succeeds in fetching out
Mrs. Gladstone also.
The World avers that the reason Canon
Liddon has not been nominated to a bishopric is
that heiis not a persona grata with the Queen,
and that the reason of this is that on one occasion,
when preaching before Royalty, he addressed Her
Majesty as “ Madam.” The suggestion is that
the Queen considered this style as too beastly
familiar.
The latest aboub General M‘lver, the hero
of “ Under Fourteen Flags,” is that he (so says a
London paper) has received an important appoint-
ment to proceed to Nicaragua, Central America,
to assist in the organisation of the preliminaries
of the great canal enterprise which is to unite the
Atlantic and the Pacific across American soil at
that point. “In this brilliant and gigantic scheme
some 20,000 men will be immediately set to work
under the organisation and supervision of the
gallant General himself.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
One firm of wine-and-spirit merchants in
Sydney publicly admit having 30 houses “bound ”
to them.
Germany has a surplus of 1,000,000
women. Another war would leave her ready for
Mormonism.
Rlngnose Wise declares he “ knows better
than to play the fool.” That’s a fact. He gener-
ally works on the job.
The Newcastle miners say there is far less
danger to bs feared from the Nordenfeldt guns
than there is from the Norton-felt influence now
darkening the district.
The Melbourne Age says N.S.W. is mov-
ing with giant strides towards Protection, and
nothing can stay the advance.
Charles Hardie Buzacott will draw most
of the bills for the M‘llwraith Government. Sir
Samuel Griffith, notwithstanding his host of
avocations, looked on the drawing of Parliamen-
tary Bills as recreatiop. The Cockier journalist
has much the same mania.
It is cabled that “the Chinese Govern-
ment are furious with Sir Henry Parkes.” Bung
Hi hates to hear a man drop his “h’s.”
The R. M S. Alameda took away to ’Frisco
£141,000 in gold. In return N.S.W. will get
some prison-made doors, sashes, and brooms.
A certain Sydney daily newspaper pro-
fesses not to know why the S. A. people object to
being “ governed ” by the Marquis of Normanby.
Bismarck being asked recently who, in
the event of his resignation, was likely to be his
.successor, significantly replied, “No one. The
new Kaiser will be his own Chancellor.”
Cardinal Moran says that Australia is the
brightest jewel in the British Crown, and that
Australian Catholics are the warmest supporters
of the Papacy. This sounds paradoxical.
A Sydney daily says that Parkes declined
the offer of a banquet from his constituents be-
cause he had secretly discovered that if he did not
decline it the banquet would decline him.
At the Melbourne Quarter Sessions Judge
Quinlan pointed out that of 26 prisoners for trial
23 were Victorian natives. Judge Quinlan is not
a native, hence he points out the nationality of
the prisoners.
There were 137 persons receiving pensions
from the N.S.W. police-fund on Ist January, 1888,
the largest annual sum paid being that to ex-
Superintendent Lydiard, £375. Six of the pen-
sioners receive their money through the Agent-
General in England, and one has been in receipt
of Government money since 1855.
Mr. Turncoat Miller says he has certain
lines laid down for his Ereetrade lectures, other-
wise he might express himself differently on many
points. Just so. Every mule respects the prod-
ding of its driver.
At present there are 63 miners at work on
the Sud-Est (New Guinea) diggings, and the
niggers are talking about poisoning the water to
get rid of them. Simple-minded savages ! As if
a digger ever drank water !
Parkes and Co., fn order to bring about
another glorious season of prosperity, have had
two million worth of Crown lands marked out for
auction sale. This hideous job is to be consum-
mated within the next month or two.
Parnell’s private secretary, who is now a
member of the House of Commons, will proceed
against the Times for libel in having stated that
he wrote, at the behest of his chief, the famous
“ forged letters ” inciting to murder.
At the Biuoker banquet, Premier Parkes
declared it was “a most satisfactory state of
things to see a body of men opposed to him to
whom the government of the country could be
fairly trusted on his retirement from office.”
Rats ! Rats ! at last.
The Age was once a Liberal paper. Its
weekly issue, the Leader, effusively endorses
Salisbury’s coercion policy. What Melbourne
now badly wants is a really Radical daily papei—■
one which, to be a success, must not even be sus
pected of being “Irish.”
It is alleged that Yogelism has sunk New
Zealand to her present low condition. The query
is now what is Parkesism doing for N. S.W., and
will the oldest colony also take a pfirnge to find
“ no bottom '!” If not, why not ? For in what
does the policy of Parkes differ radically from
that of Vogel ?
Sydney IJ. News says that Mr. Prank
Farnell, M.L.A., has been “very warmly re-
ceived ” at Gladesville. Which reminds us that
when the Duke of Edinburgh visited the Yarra
Bend Lunatic Asylum, Melbourne, the word
“ Welcome ” was displayed conspicuously over the
entrance-gates.
Chat ia cheap. Premier Parkes declares
that “the act of taxing food is a species of bar-
barism which would disgrace the tenth century.”
And yet it is Parkes’ Freetrade Government bar-
barians who tax tea, coffee, chicory, rice, cocoa,
and even the poor man’s beer. Parkes can’t urge
that beer isn’t food. Bob Lowe says it is, and
Parkes’ supporters eat plenty beer.
At the opening of the railway to Kiama,
Premier Parkes said that more than 20 years ago
he represented a part of the Illawarra district in
Parliament, and throughout his life he never had
any political connexion with a constituency that
was so pleasant and happy. We can faintly
imagine with what a snort—if ghosts can snort—
the Kiama ghost broke up on hearing this.
Says the S. F. Newsletter :—
Perhaps the pettiest thine: a great Government ever
did was to allow the Australian colonies to pay the whole
expense of an American steam line for 18 years, whilst
the United States declined to refund the postage which
the line brought it. That was betraying a commercial
instinct with a vengeance. Tt would have resulted
differently if there had been a job in it out of which some
politician could have made money.
Guinness’s Brewery Co. has divided 15 per
cent, on the year’s work, the net profit after
making allowance for bad debts being £790,930.
In addition to the dividend, £49,000 was carried
forward, £30,000 transferred to the depreciation
fund, and £150,000 to the reserve fund. Apropos
the Pall Mall remarks that if the land, which
pays a small percentage, should be nationalised, so
also should the quasi-monopolies which pay 10 to
15 per cent.
Of the total of £40,434 Is. Id. received by
the committee of the so-called N.S.W. “Patriotic”
(Soudan) fund, £6753 93. 8d, was paid on account
of members of the Contingent, £31,509 19s. lOd.
was returned to subscribars, and £806 Is. Id. was
paid for expenses, leaving £1364 7s. 9d. in hand,
to be distributed among the Sydney charities.
The patriotic subscribers of the larger amounts
having got 85 per cent, of their money back have
thu3 had an excellent advertisement at a very
small cost.
What is described as a “ disgusting scene”
took place last week in the Queensland Legisla-
tive Assembly. “ While business was proceeding
a member came in so drunk that he was unable to
keep on his legs. He fell several times and had to
ba removed.” Well, anyhow, that’s much better
than being sober in your legs and drunk in your
head and standing up and talking by the yard and
having your speech solemnly reported in Han-
sard. When the M.P.s get drunk may they
get dead-drunk.! And so say all of us.
Dancan Gillies and his colleagues have
turned their backs for ever on the deposed Vic-
torian Speaker, Mr. Peter Lalor. A letter from
the old Eureka hero, complaining of the Electoral
Bill, as a measure to secure seats for eertain Go-
vernment supporters, to the exclusion of himself
and others, was read in the House last week.
Gillies openly expressed his official opinion that
said letter was “something scandalous,” and the
faithful crew behind him wagged their heads in
approbation. Eighteen months ago they ter-
rembled under sturdy Peter’s gaze.
The question of the right of any news-
paper representative to a seat in the reporters’
gallery of the Victorian Parliament has again
cropped up and has been left to the Speaker for
settlement. The sole right to the gallery was
claimed by the leading morning journals for some
years and was first challenged by Mr. Graham
Berry when he became the proprietor of a small
weekly print, the Colling wood Advertiser. The
wealthy newspapers beat the democrat then, but
he soon after sat as a leader upon the benches
below and ruled where once he had been refused
admission.
Dear Bulletin,— lie your par. on the dis*
continuance of the ’Frisco mail subsidy by the
N Z. Government, I think you were misinformed
as to the cause, which you attribute to the anti-
pathies of the old Provincial days and the jealousies
of Auckland and Otago. The fact is that the
day before the question of the subsidy was to be
discussed in the N, Z Parliament a Press telegram
was received from ’Frisco stating that Spreckels,
the contractor for the mail service, had decided to
ship back the white men sent from Sydney to man
his vessel and continue to employ Chinamen
despite the strong feeling against them in New
Zealand and Australia. That Press telegram cost
Mr. Spreckels several thousands of pounds, as
there is little doubt that but for its (to him) in-
opportune appearance the N.Z, Parliament would
have voted the subsidy, although probably at a
retrenched figure.—Yours, A.S.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1888.
0 ?
o
to
w
o
jn
tu
— w
-
'O
"Is Marriage a Failure?"
A HYMN TO HYOIEAN.
A / nd I is Marriage ? Can you tell me, ladies, dear ?
ye 'w / Do not tell me what the maidens think of it,
* • But enlighten me, I pray —
Let me know without delay
W a" the weary wives and mothers think of it
New clothes for a time, and then
Old ones o’er and o'er again ;
Joy for some few months or so,
Then a round of work and woe,
Smoking chimneys —howling brats —
Sickly poultry —squalling cats ;
Some time later, children sent
Off to school, come home with rent
Pants and dresses, faces cut,
Also grimy, too, as soot—
Make them clean and lit to see
Ere papa comes home to tea.
But papa don’t come till ten.
Then he comes, but—drunk again!
Watch is stolen, hat awry,
Clothes all dirty, sweet black eye ;
* ‘ Inrltr sVi " Lie fnna oil vod


& y
F
A
d
)
%
a- J
~o
A
*/'
&
r
\
fcr/
Mend tlieir clothes through naif the night ;
Just about- of bed to think,
Pa gets up to look tor drink,
Somewhat sober —wants to eat —
Nothing ready — here's a treat !
Hates cold victuals — they won’t suit,
Makes them hot and feeds the brute!
When he’s fed, to bed he goes,
Rolls around him all the ctothes,
Snores like forty thousand hogs —
Snores like sirens sound through fogs.
This indeed is woman’s lot—
Lucky woman if it’s not.
When dawn brightens she must rove
Down to start the kitchen-stove,
Del the breakfast ready so
All the children off may go ;
Sauce and toy-men come and knock,
Chinese hawkers show their stock,
Canvassers call all the day.
Barrel-organs come and play ;
House all dirty, clean it up,
Some kind friends drop in to sup.
Toil and trouble day and night,
This is marriage. Am I right t
This is matrimony, girls —
Yes, it is, don’t shake your curls,
Never in its mazes roam.
For its h— 1! “ God bless our home ! i
JJ
X
E
o
o
ZEPH.


Everybody says -and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Study your own interest by using PemelFs Snow-wiiite
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by tbe newest patented machinery
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.
For Abuse of Alcohol.
USE iiorsford's acid phosphate.
Dr. Edw. Young, L.K Q.C.P., and F.R.C.S., Hounslow,
Eng., says: “I used it with marked success in nervous
prostration and insomnia, and found it especially useful
in such cases which have resulted from the too free use of
timulants ”
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the followin
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Ester
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-oalled
cheap ) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W. H PALING i GO-. W.
85(5 QEOROPI STRIHRT. two doors From P.O?
Society
Boll[?]
[?]
Some very curious and interesting state-
ments have lately. gained currency respecting
the testamentary dispositions of a very wealthy
deceased New South Wales colonist. The legiti-
mate members of the deceased’s family, it is
said, conceive the provisions of the will to be of
such an extraordinary nature as to do them much
injustice. So keenly is this felt that active steps
are being taken to contest the will • and the
aggrieved persons, feeling their case to be of ex-
ceeding importance, involving, as it does perhaps
the largest amount of money which has ever locally
been the subject of any similar action, and to re-
quire the most skilful handling, have been engaged
for some weeks past endeavouring to obtain re-
gardless of expense, the services of the very be=t
legal talent which the choice of not merely NSW
but of all Australia gives them.’ With this
view it is reported on excellent authority that
strenuous efforts have been made to induce the
.Kight Hon. Mr. Dailey to accept the leading
.c j>j w ,. famous “cross-examining
fiend o f Melbourne, Mr. Purves, Q C., as
second; both gentlemen to be supported by the
ablest men available in the whole of the colonies.
Ihe fee offered to Mr. Dailey as leader is said to
be by a long way the highest ever marked upon
a bnef in Australia. But it is feared that the
state of the right honorable gentleman’s health
will not allow of his taking the part it is wished
that he should, and which, under other circum-
stances, it is understood he would have much
pleasure in doing. It is therefore probable, unless
some marvellous change should take place in Mr.
Dailey s health, and render it possible for him to
accept the brief offered, that the lead will fall to
Mr. Purves. It is reported that Mr. Dailey has
expressed the fullest confidence in that gentle-
man s power for such a position, and that he re-
gards him as one of the few able men available for
the conduct of the case.
• * *
The letters “ E.W.1.” are written on the
many of the Sydney ladies by this time,
r j •’ „ stands for “Exhibition of Women’s
industries, and for months past in the female
world everybody who has the slightest claim to be
anybody, socially speaking, has been organising
writing, committee-holding, persuading, touting,’
cadging, bullying, snubbing, quarrelling, and
generally raising Cain,” to bring to a successful
issue the huge bazaar now being held at the old
Exhibition Building, Prince Alfred Park. As
might have been anticipated, the control of the
affair having been left solely to women, the ar-
rangements are delightfully mixed up. The
catalogue is a hollow fraud ; nobody knows where
anything is, nor what is going to happen, nor
what you have to pay to see it happen if it doe 3.
A part of the huge hall is curtained off as a con-
cert and lecture-room, and energetic ladies occa-
sionally deliver addresses there to thin audiences
while the weary, bored, perspiring crowd in the
body of the building are in hopeless, apathetic
ignorance of the fact that anything whatever is
going on anywhere. Sometimes a singer lifts up
her squall for the edification of a chosen few, but
the bulk of the visitors hear nothing but faint
shrieks which wander ghostlike through the
building, and lead timid females to think
that a murder is being committed somewhere.
Dramatic performances are given nightly by some
more or less aggressive amateurs, and serve to add
another and deeper grief to hearts already bowed
down with the loss of Nellie Farren and Fred.
Leslie. It is a wonder those amateurs are allowed
to live. Heaven sends theatres and the devil
sends amateurs. The various exhibits in the show
have tickets on them, giving the following par-
ticulars Exhibition of Women’s Industries.
Section, blank; class, blank; delegate’s name,
blank; exhibitor’s name, blank; number of ex-
hibit, blank. For sale for the benefit of blank •
price, blank; other particulars, blank; every-
thing, blank. This is a useful design for a ticket
for agricultural shows. Suppose a show bossed
by stupid, blundering men were studded with ex-
hibits marked with tickets consisting entirely of
blanks, the management would be lynched. The
gallery is devoted to “fine arts,” and the first
thing one sees is a boudoir, or what poor Fred
Marshall used to call a “boirdoo.” This boudoir
has obtained some unspecified prize for tasteful
arrangement. It is a great agony in yellow, un-
speakably bizarre in colour, tasteless in decoration
and stiff in arrangement; the formal-looking
furniture and artificial ornaments bear aboub as
much resemblance to a tastefully, decorated
boudoir as the trimmed and shapen box hedges of
a German garden do to the studied negligence and
easy beauty of a properly-arranged greenhouse,
bo far as the lady visitors are concerned there is
but one thing in the show—Lady Carington’s
dressing-case. A lot of gold vases, scent-bottles
trays, mirrors, &c, with the monogram in
diamonds on the top of each, make up this most
attractive exhibit. The women hang round and
gloat over it all day long. For a man there is
nothing whatever of attraction except the girls.
A wilderness of daubed pictures, badly-dec:rated
screens, plaques, fans, stools, table-covers, cups,
all covered with feeble unoriginal attempts at paint•
ing, make up the fine-artsection. Thenumber of ori-
ginal pictures is considerable, and nothing in the lot
would have been entitled to even a sky-high place
on the walls of the Art Society’s Exhibition. The
affair is drawing fairly well now owing to the
amount of “tone” imparted by a management
mainly consisting of Darling Point duchesses and
others of the now far-famed “Napkin Noblesse,”
but the general public stop carefully away, and
after a week or two, when the tone shall have
lost its savour, the affair will dwindle down to its
natural condition of an unattractive, unremunera-
tive parody on a big bazaar.
•
We read in a London paper an interesting
account of the career and adventures of our
vivacious, plucky, and good-hearted friend, Mr.
W. Pritchard Morgan, once of Cooktown, the
“ Welsh gold-king. Says our contemporary :
Mr. Morgan is a keen sportsman, and a remarkably
fine shot. He and another man were considered the
two best shots in Australia, and it is related that some
friends arranged a contest between them to see which was
the better of the two. A small target, the size of a penny,
was chalked on a tree, the distauoe being 150 yards. The
other man shot first, and hit the ring in the middle, then
Morgan fired. The trunk was closely examined, but, to
the surprise of everyone, no trace of a second bullet could
be found. His rival then shot again, and hit the chalk
line. Mr. Morgan took his second shot, firing with great
° ar ®’ Again no trace of his bullet! To all appearances,
he had twice failed even to hit the tree. Admitting him-
self defeated, he paid over the stakes. A few days after-
wards, however, some one, out of curiosity, dug the
bullets out of the wood, when he was astonished to find
tour altogether, one on the line and three right in the
fu n ; r ?V all ma kiDg the same hole. This clearly showed
that Morgan had hit the centre twice to his opponent’s
once, but whether he received the double stake we have
not heard.
Strangely enough, we have never heard, either.
Continues the writer :
Mr. Morgan has bought thousands of acres of land in
Wales, together with beautiful Bentyrion, a castellated
residence overlooking the estuary of the Mynach The
lovely Italian terraces face the estuary, arid on a quiet
summer evening the view can only be described as mag-
nificent. Here the “gold King” lives in quiet enjoy-
ment of well-earned repose, entertaining a large circle of
friends with lavish hospitality, and enchanting his lady
guests with his rich musical voice and capital per-
formances on the guitar as he rows them about his lake.
That’s him ! They’re writing about our Pritchard
Morgan and nobody else, we’ll take our affidavit.
* •
Ihe Ravd. J. A. Sopar (he doesn’t spell
his name with an “a”) in his lecture on
Woman’s Bondage,” at Petersham, Sydney, the
obher Sunday, said : 66 Any woman married and
not appreciated by her husband was in bondage.”
He omitted to say what she was in when ap-
preciated by some other woman’s husband, who
might be in the temperance-lecture line, say, as
Mr. Yates, of Melbourne, was, but he scored well
with the neglected darlings when he continued :
Fancy living 10 or 20 years with a man, making
him nice things for dinner,” (angel-cakes, war-
ranted to kill at a thousand yards) “ stitching bub-
tons on his shirts, darning his socks, nursing and
training his children, and ministering in a thou-
sand ways to his comfort, and yet never
getting a single kiss.” The facb is, how-
ever, that most married women are un-
appreciated simply because they do not do the
things Mr. Soper referred to. They are unappre-
ciated, and their kissing is boycotted because they
set before their hungry hubbies a chunk of burnt
meat that looks like a navvy’s fiat with the thumb
and fingers cut off, jabbed into a morass of cold
fat and call it grilled rump-steak; because their
poor martyred husbands’ shirts are generally
fastened with lemonade-wire or a bent nail, and
because all the nursing and training of their
children is done by a goat, a dirty feeding-bottle,
and a slatternly slavey who hasn't brains enough
bo enable her bo raise a clutch of chickens pro-
perly. The good wives are appreciated and kissed
boo, Brother Soper, but they are scarce —very
scarce and they seem inclined to grow scarcer.
* •
That those responsible for the nomencla-
ture of the pictures in the N.S.W. National Gal-
lery are somewhat weak on the education ques-
tion is made manifest by the facb that they have
translated the title of a photogravure of one of
De Neuville’s pictures, representing an attack on
a French gun by the Prussians, from “ A Piece in
Banger ”to “ A Piece of Danger.” A stranger
who was surprised at this evidence of the progress
of erudition in N.S.W., turned his back on “ A
1 tece of Danger ” and sought a crumb of comfort
in gazing at “Rorke’s Drift.” A lady whose
costume and well-appointed victo ia proclaimed
her a member of “ the first families, ” was descant-
mg on the masterpiece to some frie id and de-
scribed it as “ General Gordon ab Khartoum.”
Thi3 is a melancholy “ piece of fact.”
* * •
The general reliability of police evidence
was well illustrated at Melbourne Criminal Court,
the other day, when a constable swore that—ac-
cording to his knowledge and belief—it was 400
yards from Lonsdale-stresb to Little Lonsdale-
sbreet, and a mile from Scott’s Hotel to the Bank
of Australasia. “You are not a native, I pre-
r ' Purves, Q C., contemptuously.
Oh, yes, I am,” was the ready reply, whereat
the A.N.A. President looked sick, and Judge
Wrensfordsley smiled benignantly.
* * #
A gentleman calling himself “Non-
Churchman,” complains in the correspondence
column of the Sydney D.T. that marriage is too
expensive ia N.S.W., and points out that £5-the
fee charged by Church of England clergymen—is
often more than the girl is worth. To this a
melancholy incumbent replies, with bitterness :
There ia a saving “if ” in “Non-churchman’s ” letter of
Saturday last I hasten to catch him before he decides.
1^ assure him that “ the general fee given ” is by no means
*' That is to say, few of my acquaintances among
the clergy live where that happens much. Against
“Non-churchman’s” instance I quote one which is not
only actual but typical. The marriage ceremony is over
and the vestry almost cleared of muslin, tears, and things
The bridegroom says to the clergyman, “ What’s the
damage V The clergyman replies. “ There is no fee for
the solemnisation of marriage.” It would sound odd to
say, “I leave it to you,” But, practically, it is left to him.
It is this style of leaving it to him which fills the
parson’s cup with sorrow, and the case certainly
calls for Government interference, and the estab-
lishment of a regular tariff. If the parson could
be licensed like a cab for hire at so much an hour,
with an additional charge if kept waiting, or else
be chartered at a fixed rate by the job, provision
being made for the imposition of a fine for furious
driving through the marriage service, and if affairs
could be so fixed that he could be run in for over-
loading if he was found trying to marry two
couples at once, things would probably go a good
deal more smoothly.
* • o
A Sydney barrister, who is as popular in
the drawing-rooms of Darling Point as in the
Supreme Court, and whose fondness for children
is one of the best known of his characteristics,
recently meb with a queer adventure. He called
at a house where some of his little friends lived,
and asked the servant, “Are they upstairs in the
drawingroom?” On being told “Yes,” he said,
“AH right, I’ll go up by myself.” The servant
thereupon left him in the hall. The man of law
then book up a rough sheepskin rug and put it
over his shoulders. On arriving at the drawing-
room door he went down on all fours, slowly
opened the door a little way and began to groan
and roar like a wild beast; then he advanced a
little way into the room making a hideous noise.
Unfortunately for him none of the children were
present, only two English visitors staying in the
house, who were scared out of their wits by this
extraordinary apparition. They screamed loudly
and rang the bell violently, thinking a madman
was coming, and it took a deal of explanation to
put matters to right.
Two old Sydney land-marks are going. A
house in Lower George-sbreet, built by Isaac
Nichols—at one time Postmaster—in 1808, the
year Governor Bligh was deposed, is being pulled
down. So is the one ad j oining, built and inhabited
m 1812 by a well-known colonist, Mrs. Margaret
Reibey.
* * *
The Contagious Diseases Act is in force in
Brisbane—that is, it is on the Statute-book. It is
a real protection to the Chinaman and the wharf-
loafer, as the hags who associate with such are too
besotted to care to escape police-surveillance. The
more fashionable ” classes of the clemi-monde
avoid the operation of the Act by frequent change
of residence. The police acclerate their flit tings
and keep them moving round. The contagious
diseases move round, also, alas for young
Queensland !
* . „
IS MARRIAGE A FAILURE ?
SOME PRACTICAL ANSWERS.
“ I was a ohorus singer; now lam a Duchess.
“Tottie de Verb”
“ I married an actress who earns £lO a week, and gives
me half her salary. “ Peter Jones.”
“ I’m a clerk who married on 30s. a week. I have
many children, but no new clothes.
“ William Wigglesworth.”
“ I married my cook. Her keep now costs less.
“ Gregory Grumpy.”
“ I was a dressmaker. I married a navvy, who gives
me black eyes. lam still a dressmaker.
“ Fanny White.”
“ I married an English Princess, and the ratepayers
allow me five thousand a year. Good old England !
“ Fritz von Splattenberg.”
“ I married my poet, and we now live in one room, and
go to pawn every Monday. “ Maude Templeton ”
—Funny Folks.
* * •
Tgh hart is not much appreciated in the
Australian back blocks. In a certain township,
not so far removed, after all, from the refining in-
fluences of civilisation, an art union was recently
held, and the townspeople were much disgusted
to find that it consisted almost entirely of picturs
and statters, and other dashed things that they
knowed nothink about. The managers of the en-
terprise, however, recognising the necessity of
meeting the public taste, judiciously added one
hve pig, one tin biscuits, one pair of pants, one
DESIGN FOR NEW HELMET FOR THE NEW-
SOUTH WALES FORCES.
botble brandy, and 12 bottles of assorted liquors,
and when these had been carefully interspersed
through the programme the tickets were taken up
with a rush.
* * *
A QUESTION.
The folk of old said, “ Love is blind.”
Tell us, we pray you, sages kind,
Is that why he depends so much
Upon the magic sense of touch?
—Life.
* * *
A new “ Free trade industry ” has arisen
in Sydney. We allude to the copper-boiler-
lifting business. As soon as you see an empty
house you sneak round the back way to the wash-
house and annex the boiler. There are now in
Sydney a large number of gentlemen who are as
smart at lifting a copper-boiler out of a brick-
setting as a hospital-dentist is in pulling police-
men’s teeth.
• t» •
Managing Mamma (lately arrived at the
hotel and not sure of the matrimonial status of her
new acquaintances): “Ah, colonel, how many
children have you ?” Colonel (a confirmed bache-
lor): “Well —er — none to speak of.” — TOWN
Topics,
• • •
At a N.S.W. country hospital a few weeks
ago a married couple were advertised for to act as
warden and matron. Amongst the numerous ap-
plicants was a man who wrote stating “ that as he
had been accustomed to overlooking side sheep in
quarantine he thought he would be available for
the position.”
* ® •
Mr. “ Gordon Lawrence ” is not the first
man the Victorian police have laid by the heels
for masquerading in female attire, as many (then
young) sprigs of colonial nobility will remember.
Some 20 years ago a stately lady, known as the
“ Great Eastern ” (?) nightly did the “ block ” in
the neighbourhood of Eastern Hill, Melbourne
and had quite a string of fashionable youths it
ner tram. Whispers were heard that the gushing
ereature was not a frail daughter of Eve, but one
of the sterner sex, and an astute detective was
put upon her track with a result disastrous to the
fair promenader, who proved to be a man. He
was sent to Pentridge Prison for 15 years.
* e
The Committee of the N.S.W. Womens
Industrial Exhibition has b3en the means of
giving to the world the interesting information
that on her wedding-day Queen Victoria wore a
pair of cream-coloured corsets. A properly-
authenticated duplicate of these sacred articles,
together with plan and specification of the same, is
now on view ; admission, Is.
• * *
A lovely legend is told of two N.S.W*
Civil servants who recently found themselves
pecuniarily in a tight place. The first man, whose
name might be Muggins, but isn’t, went to his
friend,| Juggms, and having explained his troubles
said : If you would only oblige by putting your
a hill for £1 oO I can get the money from
old Isaac Moses at once. I have done business
with him before.” Juggins, fancying he saw a
way to get out of his own troubles, replied :
Certainly, old man, but on one condition. I’m
in a little temporary difficulty myself, but I’ll
back your paper if you agree to put your name to
a bill of mine for £2OO. Id’s a mere matter of
form, and my friend, Moses Isaacs, will imme-
diately hand over the cash.” As both parties
jld high positions in the Service, the money was
advanced in cash instanter, but in a few days
after Muggins cleared off to a foreign land, and
the duped Juggins is now responsible for both
amounts.
• * *
The Carington Centennial Convalescent
Hospital benefits to the extent of £541 by the re-
cent race-meeting at Pose Hill. The Bulletin
hopes the goody-goody mem liars of the committee
will not object to receive this amount because of
the Fource from whence it is derived. Some years
ago in the democratic suburb of Colliugwood ( Vic.)
a club of enthusiastic amateur theatricals got
up a benefit for the local poor-box. A substantial
profit was duly sent to the lady treasurer. She
happened to be pious of the pious, and having
handled the amount most gingerly, returned it
with a curt note declining the coin in consequence
of the ungodly manner in which it had been
obtained.
•
A London barmaid who died suddenly the
other day was described as of a cheerful disposi-
tion and not addicted to drink. Upon a post-
mortem examination it was found, however, that
her liver weighed 110 ounces. Here, remarks a
local paper, is a sad case of a girl whom nobody
ever saw the worse for drink and who yet must have
killed herself by constantly taking nips. What
livers some of the women must have who visit the
private-rooms at the Sydney restaurants !
* • #
At a dinner given within the last two years
to a certain Australian Governor the chairman
was a gentleman who had done his little six years
for embezzlement. The vice-chairman, however
had only put in three years for cattle-stealing.
The Bulletin notices with some surprise
that one industry which has been embarked in
with much success by at least two Sydney ladies
is so far unrepresented at the N.S, Wales
Women s Industrial Exhibition. We refer to the
underbaking trade, and hope that the genial Mrs.
Pirby, whose success in the “planting” business
is already a household word, will no longer hide
her light beneath a bushel. She really ought to
sh ow something neat in the coffin-line. An
exhibit of this sort would be by no means so
ghastly as are those awful dinners cooked by
amateur Brillat-Savarius of the feminine gender.
* •
It will be remembered that the land on
which the R. C. College, &c., are built at Manly
was a Crown grant which so rapidly increased in
value that it could at the time Cardinal Moran
commenced budding have been sold for £lOO,OOO.
lhe Cardinal, however, decided not to sell and he
has now spent all his available funds on his huge
white elephant and finds himself in debt. Has he
realised on the grant and bought some rich
<£™ tr y la ,“ d * ay £lO,OOO he would have had
£OO,OOO wherewith to build and endow his institu-
tion. The college is located on bleak and barren
ground and is in that regard by no means a
pleasant location for students.


SWEET KOROMA, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price 3s. 6d.,
ss. and 10s. Post Free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-street East,
MELBOURNE.
Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
given for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
Dress Suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS.. 11l
Russell-street, MELBOURNE.
Pepper
And
Salf
The desolate region of Cooper’s Creek has
blossomed like the rose. It has produced a hair-
less mare, and Lady Carington’s commendation
has fallen upon it There are only a few people
in that quarter of Queensland, anyway, but from
a Sydney standpoint it may be said that the an-
nouncement of Lady Carington’s pleasure at being
introduced to a hairless mare made some of them
wish that they too were hairless mares. If not,
refined society at Cooper’s Creek is uftlike refined
society at Potts Point. For instance, listen to
this monologue from the lips of our best girl, who
is only a womaD, and therefore a Tory, after
all
“ One hundred and fifty Nonconformist
ministers and lti Q rakers have signed a declara*
tion expressing their approval of the legalisation
of marriage with a deceased wife’s sister.”—Cable.
An Argus advfc. •“ Wona.—Fear not,
dearest; I will be careful now I know my life is
precious to you, for whom ’tis happiness to live.” —
O happy, happy, hairless mare,
For you good luck shone brightly,
You were not spent with anxious care,
You were not sleepless nightly.
You did not look out daily for
The postman with a letter,
Announcing you’d be welcome, or
Suggesting Would be better
If you would curb, a month or t wo,
Your wild anticipations—
O happy, hairless mare, you knew
Not one of these sensations !
’Tis these that score the brow with carp,
And mark the features over,
And turn away the soul from prayer,
The heart from friend and lover !
We know if she will take our hand
And draw us from the masses,
That we can travel round the land
AmoDg the select classes.
And thus instead of wedding one
To whom hard toil is vital
We’d catch a man of wealth, or son
Of someone with a title !
O happy, happy, hairless mare
Pronounced at once a treasure !
While hope alternates with despair
Ah we await her pleasure !
Good Nonconformist ministers, and Quaker men
sixteen,
We’ll tell you in a simple way exactly what you
mean;
Each of you has got a wife, and each of them, we
guess,
Is blessed with single sisters who are dreams of
loveliness,
Lil, Laura, Loo, Evangeline, and darling little
GracB
Are fond of paying visits to “ their married sister’s
place,”
And when, perchance, that “better half” don’t
happen to be by,
They sit upon their “ brother’s ” knee and re-
arrange his tie.
They rough his hair in merriment, and say he
“ looks a sight ”
They pinch his arm, and tickle him with feminine
delight—
They call him “ wretch ” (and other names as ter-
rible as this),
Until he has to punish them by giving them a kiss.
And, now and then, the “brother” shakes his
dear, fraternal head,
And wonders which he’d marry if his Mary Ann
were dead—
Yea, whether he’s a sinner, or regarded as a saint,
He always wants the one that is to be the one she
aint.
For there’s nothing half so beautiful and wonder-
ful in life
As Anglo-Saxon fondness for the sisters of your
wife;
0! Nonconformist ministers, and Quaker men
sixteen,
We all are one in spirit, though the ocean rolls
between.
Dear Wona, take a handkerchief and wipe your
weeping eye,
For, now he knows you dote on him, he doesn’t
mean to die;
He’ll have a care, you may depend, and nothing
reckless do,
For O!it is such happiness to keep alive—for you.
Did he not think your woman’s heart was throb-
bing for his sake
We might be drinking whisky at your faithful
lover’s wake,
But since he came to understand the price you set
on him
He’ll never court a cruel death to gratify a whim.
He will not get into a train until it fairly stops,
Nor take a thousand other means to be a bleeding
“ cops 9”;
And if into the river cold he tumbles by mistake,
The chances are he’ll swim ashore for pretty
Wona’s sake.
He will not gaze adown a gun to see it going off ;
He’ll take a cup of gruel when he has a little
cough;
And into any vital part he will not stick a knife,
Or otherwise take measures to destroy his precious
life.
So, Wona, keep your pecker up, and wipe away
the tear,
That noble fellow’s message bids his darling never
fear;
He was a reckless divil once (we know not why or
how),
But—Heaven bless him for those words !—he’s
very careful now.
[?]
846 Macquarie street North, Sydney, Oot. 17, 1888.
My dbar Moorabinda, —
It is rumoired that a giddy N.S.W. M.P. of many
summers has just re-married.
There has, I hear, been a grand flare-up at an Austra-
lian vice-regal residence in consequence of the little game
played by a dashing lady who has for some months been
palmed off upon looal sooiety as somebody’s wife. Which
she wasn’t.
I am told that a oertain foolish young man managed to
part with most of his money during the Australian tour
of a certain leg-show. While the Company oocupied a
MR. PHIL. MAY.
certain metropolitan theatre he took a lease of a box at
£lB a week and spent £l5 a week in flowers for the
objeot of his adoration, whom one night he endowed with
£lOOO-worth of diamonds. And now he is not in a posi-
tion to give anybody £loofl-worth of diamonds. Her
troubles!
I am told that the Southern doctors marvel much at the
lack of details which are forthcoming as to the causa of
the sudden death of Sir Anthony Musgrave. They say
flatly that, failing a specific explanation of the symptoms
set down in the newspaper accounts of the late Governor’s
death, the cause of his disease must be set down as
poison. Poor Sir Anthony ! He was very worried-look*
ing when in Sydney— 3o muoh so that he might well have
been called the Knight of the Rueful Countenance. A
sprightly Sydney young society matron was dar-
ing enough to actually pun upon his name when he
visited the South during the Centennial sorrows. “Sir
Anthony," she said crisply, “ your name becomes you so
well that I believe you must have chosen it! ” “ And why
does it become me?” enquired H.E. in his habitually re-
served manner. “Oh,” was the pert reply; “because
you certainly are the mus grave individual possible ! ”
This friendly sally was met very frigidly indeed by Her
Majesty’s Queensland representative.
For the enlightenment of Potts Point widows who stay
at home in their gilded boudoirs when the remains of
Smyth are being jolted to the bone yard, “because it’s
not ‘ etiquette ’to follow one’s husband to the—ugh I—
grave, my dear,” I mention that Lady Musgrave was pre-
sent in the vestry of the church where they read the ser-
vice over the body of her husband, to whom she was
sincerely attached. She had quietly slipped away from
Government House to avoid the glare of the “ hydra-
headed ” public which always regards vice-regality as a
puppet-show no matter under what conditions.
In consequence of the death of Sir Anthony Musgrave,
Lord and Lady Carington postponed their second official
ball from the 10th to the 16th October. As the alteration
was only publioly announced on the day the .ball was to
have been, one or two guests—possibly belonging to that
large and fashionable section of Sydney society which
can’t read—turned up dutifully on the evening of the
10th in full war-paint, but were politely requested to
make themselves scarce that night, and “look in” on
“ Chooseday ” instead. Upon which they beat a con-
fused and hasty retreat, wishing that the heavens would
fall and hide them. But the heavens didn't, and these
hapless individuals are still making the air sizzle with
their blushes.
I went to see Carrie Swain bathe in a tank irf the pre-
sence of a crowded house, at Sydney Royal the other
night. The fat woman had a front seat and wore black
with a large red feather fan. A nice toilette was of helio
trope satin embroidered in silver; bub the prettiest get-
Up possible was ‘ 1 sported ”by a fair young girl. It was a
white silk cut square and not too low and carelessly
trimmed with soft) white lace. At one side of the square-
cut corsage a large cluster of primroses and maidenhair
fern was artistic illy placed* and round the throat was a
single string of pearls. As for the dressing of Carrie herself,
she hasn’t muoh opportunity until the last aot, when she
appears in a blaok velvet polonaise over a skirt of moire,
black velvet hat with mauve and blaok plumes. Every-
where else she is “ disability,” as Mrs. Jarvis would say—
but what does that matter ? She is the bright particular
star of a not very bright and particular play, eveil if she
acts with a horse-rug on.
Miss Swain, by the way, reoeitfed a present from the
working staff of the Melbourne Theatre Royal, the other
day. It oons’sts of a silver scent-flask, which being
opened, reveals a niiniature representation of the tank
scene in the “ Tomboy." Accompanying the gift was a
letter oomplimenting Miss Swain upon being “the first
theatrical artiste who introduced the real water-tank
scene ” upon the Australian stage. Now, George, a penny
for your thoughts ?
Mrs. M alaprop is understood to adore the oity, because
as she said recently, “ you see so many different phrases
of life in it.”
Tiokets for the banquet tendered to Frederick Cowan
by the musical community of Sydney cost 31s. 6d. each.
Which was rough on many local disciples of Euterpe who,
though they would fain have sat at the feet of the com-
poser of “Ruth," yet coaid not spare the necessary
shekels. For the followers of music like the followers of
art, don’t exactly swim in coin in the land of the Golden
Fleece.
Clement Scott, the celebrated London theatrical critic,
says: “If ladies in the audience would dress with more
propriety those on the stage would soon follow suit.”
Competition kills decency.
Here is a beautifully lucid advt. from the S. M.
Herald
“M’OTTCE. To Exhibitors for Paris Exhibition.—
Will take charge of exhibits for N.S.W. and Vic-
toria. Speaking both languages.
Actually speaks the N.S.W. and Victorian tongues 1
On'y fancy !
A correspondent tells me that in a back-blocks town-
ship there resides a polished specimen of cornstalk who
is considered by his circle to be the Chesterfield of the
district, for, whenever he attends a bush ball he never
roughly invites the lady to “ git up ” after the manner of
the wilds, but says elegantly, “ May I indulge ?” This
formula appears to me to require a lot of beating.
A correspondent requests me to state that the Mercan-
tile Social Club ball and the Bachelors’ ball, held at
Young (N.S.W.) on recent dates, were both simply “ har-
monious wholes.”
The very latest pastime amongst the English aristocracy
is wheelbarrow races. Each barrow contains a lady, and
is worked by a gentleman, and, as the barrow is decidedly
erratic in its instincts, the fair riders are often spread out
very promiscuously on mother earth. But all this is
“ fun, dontyerknow,” and the girls don’t mind it a bit !
Wheelbarrow races ought to be popular. Just think of
the golden opportunities they offer for a free display of
pretty hose and well-rounded ankles when the barrow
“goes over”—as it invariably does !
The Rosehill October meeting takes place on the 20th,
not on the 28th inst, as I stated last week.
I read that the death of the German Emperor will cost
the London theatres a million sterling as a nation in
“ complimentary weeds ” doesn’t go to the play.
Apropos, a good story is afloat in Lond on anent the
Morell Mackenzies. A few days after the death of the
Emperor, Lady Mackenzie had an “ at home,” to which
friends rallied dubiously, half expecting it would be post-
ooel. Upon arrival, however, t l, ey found it to be in
progress, and, upon somebody remarking on this expec-
tation to Lady Mackenzie, she instantly replied: “Why
should it be postponed ? He wasn’t a relation of ours,
you know.”
Our Mrs. Mala prop doesn’t like cruel scaiidal. Ilet
coterie were maligning somebody recently and hinting at
very weirl doings in certain quarters, when Mrs. M.
broke in with, “Now, step, pray do. It makes me ill to
hear such importations made against anybody 1”
Apropos of the now far-away and possibly sea-sick
Gaiety Company, a correspondent in a post-mortem frame
of a letter pensively asks “ Why Letty Lind's skirts ait so
beautifully ?” Mis3 Letty’s garments used to oling like
that because they were divided, after the fashion vainly
advocated by the celebrated Lady Harberton, who
couldn't get a footing in eassiely for her invention.
I used to repel the idea of split pettiooats, but when I re
member the perfect fall of Letty Lind's skirts I don’t
think Id be very difficult to convert to them. And;
speaking of the Burlesquers, Fred. Monte Christo Leslie
confided to mo that he was an amateur actor once in “the
dear days long ago.” Wasn’t it quite an odd thing that he
should have grown up under the oircuinstances ?
Sir Henry Loob, accompanied by Miss Deverell, Lieu-
tenant Ogilvy, A D C. (for the benefit of the educated but
careless I submit that this name is pronounced “ Ovy
and Mr. F. S. Cowan arrived in Sydney on the loth inst.,
for the purpose of visiting the Fish River and Jenolan
Caves. The vice-regal squad went almost direotly to the
caves, staying but a few hours at Government House, and
arriving at their hollowed-out excelsior at noon next day.
Wilson, of the Cave House, had lavishly decorated his
premises in honour of the gubernatorial visit, and “ Wel-
come to His Excellency ” became almost obtrusive. The
vice-regal party admired duly the marvels of the cavesj
and were also duly bruised on the head by stalactites and
prodded in the calves by stalagmites during (heir stay in
them. Friday night was spent at the Carington Hotel,
“on the mountings,” the parly returning next day to
that other “Carington Hotel,” Inner Domain, until the
lfith, when they wafted back to the “wickedest city in
the colonies,” per express.
At the last Skating Carnival at the Crystal Palace Rink
one y'oung lady—who wore a white satin dress and appro-
priate trimmings, which had been put through one of Tun
Buluktin presses— assumed the character of “The Bul-
letin,” and looked charming.
Sydney, socially, just now is very limp, and, were it
not for the theatres, many a pale dude would literally
yield up the ghost. There was a grand opening meeting
on the Moorefield race course, at Kogarah, on the 13th
inst. Canterbury Park races happened on the 15th.
There have been one or two flower-shows, and the
Women's Industrial Exhibition, like the poor, of course,
we have always with us. But what are all these save a
weariness to the flesh ? As for fixtures in front—the out-
look in Sydney is “ far, far from gay.” The Horticultural
Society of N.S.W. hold their rose-show in the Inner
Domain (“by kind permission of his Excellency”) on
Nov. 8 and 9. On 3rd Nov. the Naval and Military sports
pursue their mad career at the Association Ground in the
presence cf Lord Carington and three brass bands ; and
early in November the Southern Amateur Theatrical
Society give their inaugural performance of the dual bill
—“Boots at the Swan” ccmedietta and “The Crimson
Scarf ” operetta.
At an ambulance lecture and demonstration given at
the W.I.E. the other afternoon, the lecturess said : “ All
those who take an interest in ambulance work hoped at
the time that the many meetings then held would be fol-
lowed by the opening of numerous branches in the city,
the suburbs and the country. Unfortunately, this has
nob been the case. The Sunbeam left us, carrying with
it, I am afraid, most of the enthusiasm for the cause.”
Of course I A certain class of Australian female would
go rag-picking if a “ distinguished person ” came out
with a rake and a fad that way for the purpose of getting
a nod from the distinguished head, or a dab of the distin-
guished paw—but she wouldn't like the pastime all the
same. The women who tore round with lint, binding up
dummies’wooden legs and left their own babies to take
headers into the fire while they banged their umbrellas
on the fbor at ambulance-meetings, are now heard and
seen no more, andhnly a handful of genuine enthusiasts
remain to give demonstrations on sticking-plaster before
a crowd that ought to be ashamed of itself, as I am sure it
must always contain dozens of backsliders from Brassey.
Lady Musgrave purposes returning to England by the
Jumna leaving Brisbane on 30th October.
Sydney sassiety looks with cold disfavour on the new
flagship Orlando because she is absolutely too warlike.
Actually there is no deck-space for dancing, and the
poor Admiral has almost to climb over a cannon to get to
his cabin ! No space for “darncing” (as the itinerant
midsbipmite always pronounces it) is quite awful enough
to contemplate, isn’t it ? But when it comes to a real
live admiral having to get over a gun to go to bed—oh,
horrible !
Somebody asked Mrs. Malaprop to what country a com-
mon friend belonged by birth ? “He is of Scottish con-
struction,” replied our own, elegantly.
I received a letter the other day from a lover—not my
own, of course, but another’s Romeo—who calmly and
despairingly stated “ I am engaged to a young lady
who is cursed with a black moustache, which she is com-
pelled to shave so frequently that her upper lip has
assumed a bluish tinge.” Then he asked for a remedy.
The best and only depilatory is to pull each separate hair
out (any lover will operate with the tweezers), but never
shave, as each hair then becomes a hundred. However
I don't suppose they’ll mind that—some young men
would tweak blue bristles off Popsie's upper lip for
ever, and then collect them in a soft paper bag and w 7 ork
’em up into a watch-guard—now, wouldn’t they ? For to
the lover
Stray hairs on his coat are but sources of bliss
And of joy that is utterly utter,
But when he is married it soon comes to this:
“ Here’s some more of your hair in the butter ! ”
A London journal says: “It cannot be alleged that
strenuous efforts are made in this country to counterfeit
virtue. There are English women whose apparent
anxiety it is to counterfeit vice. No doubt it is un-
pleasant that immodest women should effect the dress of
their modest sisters ” (modest only, if in sassiety, when
O'lt of evening dress anyhow), “but it is far worse that
tie latter should think that by copying the style of the
dtmi-mondaines they can mo.st effectually render them-
selves attractive to men.” After all, it appears to be a
case of “diamond cut diamond.” Society steals Aspasia's
robe and puts it on, with her manners. Aspasia makes
like reprisals, and things appear to me to be about even
Society and Aspasia generally manage to get even, don t
they ?
If Lady Carington keeps a “ diry ” I believe her entries
for last week would read (a la Mark Twain): “Arose
went to the Women’s Industrial Exhibition,’’ right down
from Monday to Saturday, for both Lord and Lady Caring-
ton have been there almost every afternoon. They have
sat out concerts, and eaten Exhibition dinners, and
listened to lectures on everything, from Kindergarten up
to coal, with a devotion to duty that may well make
everybody blush. However, there's a good time close in
front, for the Melbourne Cup week commences on the 3rd
prox. with the Derby ; the Cup is to be run on the 6tb
Oaks day the 8th, and Steeplechase day on the 10th of
November ! As I gloat over this festive programme I can
effuse no more, but only in a subdued kind of anticipative
rxp'ure fub;cri' e myself
Ycius -ffectionately,
SAPPDD EMITIT


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney,
Bole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High- Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live,
we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
intensely sensitive; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos.
2nd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
6th. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
6th. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg,
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
BKALE PATENT NEW HIGH ARM SEWING MACHINE
Special Qualities and improvements.
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter ;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are wili-
ng to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely SUS-
PENDED in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process whicii in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
oareful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments.
Catalogues and Prioe Lists Free by Post.
BEALE ANtToOMPANY,
482, 484. anp 486 <4bokov Svpnbv
Her MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison
Doors open 7 Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45
ANOTHER TRIUMPH SCORED BY
Mr. GEO. C. MILN,
_ in
RICHELIEU. RICHELIEU.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 18 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager,
Grand crystal palace
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band every afternoon
and evening; conductor, Mr. Geo. Vassie.
EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING GRAND SPECIAL
NIGHT,
LADIES, Is.; GENTLEMEN, 2s.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL,
A3L _ George Street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Grand Sacred and Classical concert
every
SUNDAY NIGHT at 7.30.,
when will be rendered a choice and select Pro-
gramme, under the conductorship of
Mr. CHAS. AUSTIN.
SEE DAILY PAPERS OF SATURDAY.
Theatre royae.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgro r«.
bessee. Mr. S. Larar ; Treasnrer, Mr. Goodman.
IMMENSE SUCCESS OF
CARRIE SWAIN,
in her Great Success,
THE TOMBOY.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
Jg O N D I AQUARIUM.
The most popular plcnio and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. a — l — u n **- ■ ’
Free to
■* —— ) wu fwj lug UiUUi VilU uu VIIU
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
t* Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Ib. ; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
LAST 2 NIGHTS
of
Mr. GEORGE LEITCH.
LAST 2 NIGHTS
of the POWEREUL DOMESTIC COMEDY DRAMA, by
GEORGE RALPH WALKER, Esq.,
‘SITHORS TO GRIND ”
“SITHORS TO GRIND.”
ADMISSION —55., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULI
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS
of
OUR BLONDINETTES.
AL. W. FILSON and MISS LEE ERROL
AMERICAN SKETCH and COMEDY
ARTISTS.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orohestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d
jgOTANY 1 BOTANY! BOTANY I
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 8.30.
Gband Saobhd and Classical Conobbt Of
Well-known Abtists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the uonductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH Directob.
A3HFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND GARDEN PALACE
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thubsday and Sa re r Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnios, &o.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
M. C. A. H A L I.
TO-NIGHT,
LAST NIGHT BUT ONE
OF
MISS AMY SHERWIN
MISS AMY SHERWIN
MISS AMY SHERWIN
MISS AMY SHERWIN
MISS AMY SHERWIN,
Prior to her departure for Europe, Supported by
the following Artistes :
Last Appearance in Sydney, Prior to her departure
for Europe, Supported by the following Artistes :
Miss MINA FISCHER, Mezzo-Soprano
Mr. HENRY STOCKWELL, Tenor
Mr. ARTHUR SHERWIN, Baritone
Mr. GEO. C LUTS AM, Pianist and Accompanist
Mr. JOHN LEMONE, the Great Flautist.
POPULAR PROGRAMMES.
Change of Programme Every Evening.
Box Plan for the Five Nights now open at
Paling’s. Reserved Seats, ss. ; Family Tickets of
FIVE for £1; Gallery, 35.; Organ Gallery, 2s.
G. A. SHERWIN, Manager.
HUGO GORLITZ, Acting Manager.
MR. EGERTON CLAIRMONT is no longer
in our employ, nor is he authorised to
canvas for Subscribers or collect Accounts,
Bulletin Newspaper Company, Limited.
S' FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS
Ms'i Sakis* Powiers, Orient Satan Bine,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD Ss CASTOR OILS
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS
SELF-RAISINO FLOUR.
TOILET OILS, PE&SIAH HUBEI
&0„ ko.
STEAM WORKBa
EAEEIB STEEET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY,
]VTEW HAYMARKET MUSIC HALL,
J3I Georg -street, Hay market
Lessee George Barr.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT,
SATURDAY OOT. 20.
For this occasion the Management have spared
no expense in engaging »n array of TALENT
EXTRAORDINARY. Grand and Original First
Part. Oar Litde Beauti-s, in which the whole
company will appear, in dud in g the great and
wonderful
FAUST EAMIY.
Herr Yon Der MEHDEN,
the great Cornet Soloist and Mu deal Wonder.
The Beautiful Whita Mar ole Statuary,
as performed by them at the Theatres Royal,
Melbourne and Sydney.
New and Magnificent Scenery by J. R Setright.
Popular Price i, 2s. and Is.
General Manager, PRED. DARK.
“ Australia’s ” Monster Consultations. The
Caulfield Cup, run 25th October, 1888. 6,000
Subscribers of 10s each First Ho.*se, £1,000;
Second, £500; Third, £250; Starters, £250; Non-
Starters, £250 (to be divided amongst
them) 100 Cash Prizes of £5 each ; 100 Cash
Prizes of £2 10s. each. The Melbourne Cup,
Run November 6, 1888. 10,000 subscribers at 20s*
each. First horse, £4000; Second, £2000; Thirds
£1000; Starters, £700; Non-Starters, £BOO (to be
divided amongst them); 25 Cash Awards of £2O
each; 25 Cash Awards of £lO each ; 100 Cash
Awards of £7 10s. each. In this event there are
four separate drawings—lst, the horse, then each
of the money prizes, which reduces the odds of a
prize to about ten to one. Also, one of the Mel
bourne Cup, 10,000 subscribers of 10s. each, with
the same number of prizes as in the above event,
of just half the value. Subscribers are particularly
requested to adhere strictly to the address at foot,
and register all letters, and apply early, so that
the fortunate drawers of horses may have time to
hedge. Enclose two stamped addressed envelopes,
for reply and result. Address “ Australia,” care
of Mr. Hugh Dalveen, Victoria Cafe Hotel, near
General Post Office. George-st., Sydney. N.S.W.
Tuo death, in the R d Sea, of Proftsstr
Henry Martin Andrew, of Melbourne Univer-
sity, wi 1 come as a shock only to those who knew
the deceased gentleman years ago, and were not
aware of the weakness of hi 3 physical condition in
his latter days. Broken and dispirited, with an
evidently weakening brain, there is no knowing
what might have ha; p ined had he lived to suffer
much longer as he did.
L : t'ig > v Farrell declares that 35 years
ago Lord Salisbury, then plain Robert Cecil, and
Sir John Millais were trying their luck on separate
claims on the Bendigo rush, while Woolner, the
great sculptor, was hanging out in Melbourne, and
Henry George was humping bluey among the
goldfields. Toe Cabbage Garden was then “ en-
tertaining angels unawares. ” T > dav. Salisbury
runs the British natioD, Millais and Woolner are
at the top of their respective trees, and Henry
George, like a second Messiah, has shed the light
of a s ipreme revelation upon the world.
Editor Bulletin.— Sir, —Allow mo to
corn ct an error app taring in your last issue You
state that “ the Opposition are endeavouring to
get Sir Thomas M‘Jlwraith to piss an extrem ly
drastic Inebriate Act,” and yon further refer to
S r S W. Griffith in connection with the metsare.
The fact is that the proposal is the outcome of my
experience as h f n. sec. of the Queensland Dis-
charged Prisoners’ Aid Society. At the annual
meeting held September 14, I moved that steps be
taken to establish an Inebriate Home, Gentle-
men of various shades of political and religious
opinion are acting with me in the matter, and as
power to compel patients to remain in the home
until fit for discharge is a sine qua non, we waited
on the Premier to urge the intro iuction of an
Inebr’ate Act, which he, fully realising its import-
ame, has promised to do next session. lam sure
you will be glad to learn that the motive is higher
and nobler than any Opposition desire to hamper
the Government.—Yours, &c., E. Parr Smith.
All the dear old familiar names —all the
names of the Sydney land-resumption heroes,
company bosses, and professional directors, are
on the share-lists of the colossal syndicates formed
to collar half-century leases of the N.S.W. Go-
vernment tramways and trade them off in London
at a few millions advance on cost price. One syn-
dicate has calmly reserved 100,000 shares for
such members of Parliament as choose to apply
for same—here we cough faintly—after the bill
has been engineered through the Legislature.
The public cannot expect the Sydney daily
papers to show up th's iniquitous scheme to dis-
pose of a great State asset, practically without
competition, just at the moment when the new rail-
way commissioner—who, if let alone, might easily
place the property on a paying basis —is about to
enter on his duties. The Bulletin cautions the
N.S.W. public to keep its eye open, and to resist to
the uttermost the introduction of the thin end of
a wedge which, when fully driven home by the
sledge-hammer of corruption, will divorce the
people from the control of their own streets and
railroads.
Why be without fish when, by having one of
our Fish-Traps, you can have plenty ? Eastway’s,
til George street, Sydney.
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, In any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, In various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. - The Economio
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wardrobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Stbeetb.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE,
A VIBT OOMPkIVR
ABBOBTKIN9,
Man/ quite new design*.
Nvwton & Lamb.
CANVAS FOLDING
OOTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
PATEN
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
136 feet of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
QANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low,
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Sfbing and O’Oonnbh Stbbbts.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustio
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Nbwton
and Lamb.
ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs
Indian Long-Abm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Nbwton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Nbwton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Nbwton & Lamb, O’Oonnell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, be*
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. eaoh.
NEWTON and LAM


The PRESTON PARK ESTATE
TO BE INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES’ STATUTE, 1864.
£69 ? Q00 ? in 25 Shares £2760 each,
Payable as follows:—£36o per fhare on Application, and the balance in equal Bills of One,
Two and Three Years, bearing Interest at rate of 6 per cent, per annum.
This Syndicate is being formed for the purpose of purchasing and subdividing 265 Acres of Land situate at corner of the main
High-street and another main road. This property has an extensive main road frontage of about one and a-half miles, is within 200
cr 300 yard< of the Railway Stati n and is in the centre of the c >mieg Township and immediately o posite the Recreation Ground,
State School, Post Office, Public Hall, Church, etc.
The position of the land is simply p-rfection, being in the best part of this lovely district and of a charmingly undulating
character. It is land that must undoubtedly be largely sought for m sub-divisioo. The views to be obtained from this property
cannot be surpassed.
The sub-division may be proceeded with almost immediately. There will be an imme se main road frontage, and the estimated
profit to tha Syndicate is about 100 per cent, on the nominal capital.
The Venders have agreed to sell the property hr £69,000, which is about £260 per acre, the terms to be £360 cash each
share deposit, a~d the balance by promissory notes at one, two and three years, bearing interest at rate of 6 per cent, per annum, with
option to pay cash at any time with full rebate of interest.
A copy of the agreement under which this property has been acquired can be seen at the offices of the Solicitors, Messrs.
Tuthill, Geoghegan and Perry, 19 Queen-street, Melbourne.
It is anticipated that only the first instalment of the purchase money will be required.
In submitting this land the Vendors have the fullest confidence in its progressive character. Land all around this favourite
locality is being rapidly taken up. The “ Preston Park Estate Syndicate *' will rank second to li me in the district for pop larity, its
convenience to the new Railway Station, which is a settled fact, making it of such easy access, and the position of the land marking it
out as one of the most beautiful spots near Melbourne.
Application for Shares to be made to
THOMAS SWEETMAN, Auctioneer, 1 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Keferee
No previous Caulfield Cup has been the
medium for such market finesse and “cleverness” as
next Saturday’s race. A week ago, or evenlater, there
were not half a dozen horses, out of the 77 entries,
that could be reckoned upon as certain starters,
so carefully were owners hiding their hands.
Touts and ‘ 1 timers ” were never more barren of
ideas about the big event, for the reason that most
of the supposed “good things ” have been moving
in a mysterious way far from the madding crowd
at F.emington and Caulfield. But by the time
this appears things are likely to be tolerably well
straightened out for the wretched punter, who has
been lured into backing fewer “ stiff’uns ” than
usual, and will probably succeed in picking the
absolute winner in 10 tries. Of Victorian horses,
The Charmer is a likely one, and Mick O Brim's
mount is likewise good enough to carry the public
shirt.
• •
*
At last meeting of the Sydney Hanfc Club
on Rosehill Course, only one horse—Happy .Tack
—got round in the steeplechase. Rather a poor
display for an alleged Hunt Club.
* *
Mr. Tom Haydon, secretary of the Vic-
torian Club, has been interviewed touching racing
mat'ers in England, and one of his remarks
fairly indicates the absurdity of accepting hastily-
formed opinions as hard facts. Mr. Haydon says
that none of the London sporting resorts can
come up to the Victorian Club in Melbourne, and
then goes on to speak of the Albert being the
“ principal club.” Now, if the interviewer had
gone to any one of 10,000 new-chums in Melbourne
he could have learned that the Victoria in Wel-
lington-street, Strand, is the principal book-
makers’club. The Albert plays a very second
fiddle to it. Again, Mr. Clibborn speaks of San-
down Park as a place where “ coming from the
train high and low jostle each other in a half-mile
walk across a narrow pathway. ” As a matter of
fact, the “ high”—or members of the club —have
special trains, special railway platform, and pri-
vate pathway to the grand-stand.
• • *
Several Sydney papers seem anxious to
act as stakeholders in pugilistic and other
sporting matches. The English papers never
care for such an invidious task, and in Eng-
land no decent daily newspaper ever ostentatiously
announces that it has allowed two common
bruisers to meet at its office and fix up a punching-
match or prize-fight to which one of its staff has
appended his name as a witness.
*
Fancy a three-year old colt by a full
brother to Goldsbrougb, out of a very fashionably
bred mare, only fetching (at Melbourne’s sale the
other dav) 20. guineas—why, it isn’t the price of a
hack l The sire’s (Gloucester’s) fee would be ab jut
10 guineas, and then there is the expense of feed-
ing the colt for three years, breaking him in, &c ,
&c. One would be inclined to Eay that ho se-
breeding was a mighty poor game to go in for,
but it must be remembered that the price of a
crack three-year-old, say, Melos, would be a
couple of thousand pounds, and it costs no more
to breed a good one than a bad one. It is much
like a lottery, and where there are such big prizes
to be gained there must be a good many blanks.
Sydney is ab ub the cheapest place in Australia
to buy horses in ; residen's in the bush can never
understand how it is that when they tend a real
good hack down to Sydney for sale they never get
anything like a good price, but when they ask
the fellows about town what they give for
their hacks they find that they part tre-
mendous figures. The explanation is that the
average Sydneyite does not know enough to go
and buy his animal at a sale, and is too knowing,
as he thinks, to buy him from a friend, so that
the horses which cure to town for auction are all
sold to the d( alers, who keep tbom awhile, get
them quiet to the trams, and sell them for double
what they gave. Only the other day a breeder
sent down a mob, among t them a nice hack, and
was astonished to find thad the good hack only
brought £1 '. A few weeks after he met a friend
of his riding this very horse, which he bad
“ picked up a regular bargain ’ at 35 guineas.
The dealer had got all the profit out of the horse,
and the owner had got nothing. This is always
the way with good quality horses, and if our bush
readers wani a wrinkle about selling their horses,
let them listen to the followin'? :—The buyers in
Sydney are divided into classes. Those looking
for good quality hor-es will only buy from the
dealers, who get their horses up into show condi-
tion and are on hand to stoke the buyer up with
the requisite amount of lies, and to show the
horses off properly. Middle-class horses, such as
spring-car 1 ), cab, and van sorts, v. ill only sell well
when quiet and fat If a cabman goes into a yard
and sees a horse play up at all he won’t buy him—
he lets the dealers buy him at a low price and
they drive him round and show that he is quiet,
and get a good price for him afterwards. The
same remarks apply to poor conditioned horses.
The dealers take them and fatten them up, and
make all the money out of them. The only way
to get a good sale in Sydney is to send down any
sorb of cheap “crocks,” so long as they are quiet
and fat. The men who intend to use them will
then bid for them, and will give the same figures
which they would otherwise give the dealers ;
and, as they don’t know much about horses, a
hopeless, broken-down, 15 year-old nag, which has
been worked right oub and then given a spell an
fattened for sale, will often briDg just as much
and more than a real good, sound-legged
youngster, so long as he is in good condition and
is quiet to knock about with. Therefore, let the
bushmen send down the cast-offs and they will
make a lot more money than by sending good
ones. We won’t charge anything for the advice.
The chapter of accidents which occurred
to Searle in his recent race recalls the wager-boat
race at one of the regattas, on a frightfully stormy
day, when Messenger won after everyone in the
I race had been swamped, by paddliDg in sitting
astride of his capsized craft, and using his sliding
seat to paddle with. Talking of rowiDg, the
1 eight-oar crew to represent N.S. Wales are start-
ing work, ft seems that there is some hitch about
getting the best men of the Sydney Rowing Club,
b cau e they are not pleased with the choice of a
coach. When a man is asked to row for his
colony he ought to be superior to such considera-
tion and it will be a good job if none of the pot-
hunting crowd referred to are ever asked or
wanted to row again.
A French horse, Tenebreuse, is cabled as
the winner of the Ciesarewitch Stakes The lively
Gauls are proverbially danserous for thi' race, and
for the Cambridgeshire, although of late years the
English handicappsrs (Mess-s. Weatherby) in-
variably allot a respectable weight to anything
trained on the other side of the Channel.
•
As the ti ne for the great Melbourne race-
meeting draws close the umal flavour of “ turf ”
pervades the atmosphere. Men who h *ve only
seen a race or ce in their lives discourse Jearredly
l about ths chances of the Peer and Abercorn, and
tell othtr men equally innocent and ignorant
dark stable secrets and macteavres which the
owners and trainers never knew or thought of.
The knowing men who er< supposed to be “ in ”
with the stables and to have valuable info) lmtion
get more and more important and retic c nt »s time
goes on ; they always have some lorse “going
for ” them in the Cup to v.in about £lO 000, ac
cording to their own Btory and, by the wav, it is
a surprising fact that the more “ information ” a
man has the less cash he seems to be possessed of.
The ultra-knowing ones are alvays hard up. ft
is the same with the horse owners—the men who
win when they can always do better than those
who go in for the waiting game, because
these latter, when they at last do send
their horse, generally run up against tome
other “ waitist,” who al.o has been biding
his time and losing races to make a cer-
tainty when he is wanted. It often happens when
two hcrses meet in a race for which both have
been waiting, that they will race light clean away
from the rest of the field, and theieby show the
handicapper what they can do. The winner, of
course, scoops the pool, but the second horse gets
a steadier next time he is handicapped, and wins
nothing by it Talking of information—if you ask
an old, experienced racing man, who has made a
study of performances, gallops, &c., what is going
to win the Melbourne Cup, he will tell you that it
is a very open race, and that no one can make a
very accurate guess, but if you ask a barber’s ap-
prentice, he can always tell you the winner for a
dead certainty. A little cheek goes a long way
sometimes.
• • «
The Sydney University eight-oar crew that
went to Melbourne to row appear to have had a
“ sick ” time of it. When they arrived, the local
’Varsity scullers rolled up in force—to the number
of two, or thereabout— and it is whispered tha
the Sydney men had to propose an adjournment
to a pub before their hospitable entertainers made
any suggestions about irrigating their Bystems.
The secretary of the Melbourne crowd did not
ap>pear on the scene till after the race was rowed,
and the dinner which was given to the Sydney
crew was a perfect Barmtcidal feast—most of
those pres=nt got nothing to eat, as grub ran
short. Of course, as the Sydney men got beaten,
it may pcssibly be that there is a little of the
“ whipped dog ” business about their remarks.
• • •
A mania for going into sweeps has settled
on the community which is sending every pound
it can beg, borrow, or steal, for a chance in these
gigantic lotteries. The history of past sweeps is
somewhat instructive. Ore was annexed by a
policeman It is said that the owner of the
; horse which the policeman had drawn, got to
k:ow the name cf the bobby and sent him word
to say that uoless he would lay him a thousand to
nothing the horse would be scratched, as he
couldn's afford to train horses for mere fun. The
astute policeman did not say that he would not
make the desired wager, and the horse won; then
theuwnerwentround for his cool thousand, and the
policeman with an airy, graceful smile absolutely
declined to pay him a farthing. Of course the
horse-proprietor had no remedy at law. The
policeman was on duty outside Tattersall’s when
the news came and he fainted into a crumpled
blue heap in the gutter immediately on hearing
that he had won. Another man went into a
sweep and drew a horse, and as he was a soft,
unsophisticated chap two dear friends advised
him to lay the owner £lOOO to nothing, and they
even Uaderbotk the arduous duty of arranging the
bet with the owner, and fur this they got the
simple fello w to lay them each £5OO to nobbing,
and when he won the sweep and paid them
honorably they asked him whether he didn’t think
he ought to stand them another hundred or so
aj iece. How was that for h’gh ?
• •
The Melbourne Racing Carnival —dear old
term ! —made a large commencement at Caulfield
on Saturday. Backers fell heavily at the first
fence, for the vastly-improved Mentor, little
fancied by his stable, beat a splendid field of
horses at weignt-forage, and established himself a
favourite for the Melbourne Cup straightaway.
That flying filly, Montalto, won the Great Foal
Stakes as easy as falling off a log, and Volley,
who palpably desired to turn it up, just beat
Wycombe for the Guineas. Volley’s performance
was nob calculated to strergthcn shaken faith in
her Derby chance, although it added another leaf
to the laurel crown of Thomas Hales, Esq. A
Hunter’s Cup was chit fly remarkable for the
fact that Mr. Jnglis was hissed for his riding
of Daphne, bub Mr. Inglis is so often hissed
on such shadowy grounds that he probably
doesn’t mind woith mentioning. Mr. Sampson
wound up proceedings by running first and second
for the Tooiak Handicap with Bobhwell and
Maggie. Gots'p on the course rather pointed to
the possibility cf the dark horse, Tradition,
having a very good 1 tok in for the Caulfield Cup.
THE CAULFIELD CUP.
If you ask for a tip
(A regular “snip,”
A “moral,” a “griffiD,” a “cert.”)
Wherecn you may plank
Every cent in the bank,
As well as your boots and your shirt,
There is one in the race
Who is good for a “ place ”
(A “ shop ” is a term that’s allowed),
The Charmer’s the mare
Very sure to be there —
Unless she walks in with the crowd.
A LONG SHOT.
A tip for the Cup : When the numbers go up
And the cheering is loud on the flat;
When Ensign is beat, and the Peer owns defeat,
The winner is Aristocrat.


Business Announcements.
tar tjelieq oxsTL'sr «
ISim IffSTEUMENT
Direct Supply Acscciation!
r
658 George Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
6 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
/
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and purchasers will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others.
Over 800 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. 6d. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 35 5 .
>» n ii n steel notes ... 60s.
Organ Concertina, in wood box 21s.
The finest show of ACCORDEONS to be seen
n the colonies from 10s. 6d. up to £5 at any
P r «»s- SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 30s. Od.
ai lv ? ” ” 32s - 6d.
Patent Steel „ „ ... 35 5 . od.
. 7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and extra set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up bo £7 10a.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents In Australia
FOB
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
SOM Mil STEM,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola Doable Sus, Harp,
Zitbar, k, Sc,
In Banjo ve have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, ha\ i .g by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
6,6 or 7 „ ~ „ £4 10/-.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
special lines, we at once despatch Instrument. In-
struments packed carefully and sent to any part of
the colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SinaONSEN, Manager,
658 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.— To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthened and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
m perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Sfi“”S™ y ?a n a d
the relation in which it will stand toward Austra-
lasia will evidently be one of great influence.—
E. Favenc
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Possesses Copper, Lead, Tin, Gold, Silver and
Iron Ore in abundance. Her climate is mild and
healthy, her timber—especially the Jarrah—is re-
nowned for its durability and usefulness. Great
railways are being constructed connecting PEItTII,
the Capital City, with the interior.
Telegrams respecting the Gold Discoveries ap-
pear almost daily in the newspapers.
The Colony is going right ahead on its prosperous
way. _ Investors are now offered a rare chance of
securing Blocks of Land almost in Perth, the
Capital City of this coming Colony, for a
“mere song.”
The EVELEIGH ESTATE,
Perth, Western Australia,
Only about half-a-mile from the city, fronting a
Government road, excellently situated, good build-
ing land, must return a handsome profit to buyers.
ONLY £lO EACH BLOCK.
£1 deposit; balance 10s. monthly. No interest.
Torren’s Title. Free deeds to purchasers of 5 lots.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets containing valu-
able information posted on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Limited,
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
K
Agents
ei
O
11 ,
s
o
S
T
DELISSA k PHILLIPS
3&J Barmck Street.
&
*
%
o
$
G*
sK
V
*
*
A
&
sr
o
V
*B5
Jr
O
S*
*
V
<p
O
V*
>o
0
£
o
0
&
a -
r\
O
<2>
%
<c N
V
*
-V
&
x>
A
*
o
390 a GEOEGE S t -
SY3
William's Australian Insecticide Is death to all lnseots.
simple In application—sure in efleot. This is the only
genume Inseot Destroying Powder, being oertain death to
all kinds of inseots, while it is perfeotly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Inseoticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all ohemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemißt, 267 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Blliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Old Pom, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rouslllon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled Hlgh-olass Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, ohemist, near King.street.*
SEASON, 1888 and 1889.
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THE
PUBLIC.
J- H. WHITE,
(Member of Tattersall’s Club, Sydney and Vlo-
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
175, PITT STBEET, SYDNEY.
J. H. White’s Weekly Circular of Current
Prices on all forthcoming events (as quoted at the
Sporting Clubs) forwarded Gratis to any part of
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name and
address.
Centennial Hotel,
SCOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
Newcastle.
Wines, Beers, and Spirits a Speciality.
Hot, Cold, and Showeb-Baths on each Flat.
BILLIARDS ! BILLIARDS!
THIS Hotel is now opened, and admitted to be
the Best Fitted and Furnished Hotel in the
Colony. It is beautifully situated, being directly
opposite the Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to the
Railway Station, and convenient to all the Public
Buildings. A porter meets all trains and steamers
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
WALTER SIDNEY, Proprietor.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated nnder Companies Aot, 1871.
CAPITAL, £500,001,
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITB :
3 months, 5 per oent.
6 n 6 ii
12 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months 1£ per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager,
A. MILLER, Accountant.
FOR SALE. —Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Oove Rivers. Apply,
g DL LETIN Office.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
HO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
M
essectttes
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE.
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYINB OF TEAS.
10!
ngPBNTB ARB EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES.
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. "
Tbs Bssft Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Go..
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS. ?
IB YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
FfflU Agents lor the shove lor New Sooth Walea sad Queensland
Also Importers ol Requisites lor the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all details, Including
imported Leathers, &o. ! and of the following Special LinesPEERLESS GLOSS RATTN
‘NUBIAN BLACKING - T.nirn, Tool, and Material.. Indent, exesnted o.F.Too..bJ* TW*
Business Announcements.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
„ We recommend these BITTERS to be taken fcwl
or throe times a day j a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affeotions.
aotl °? of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
suffering from Skin Diseases will fled
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
aboutl half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER*
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
„ ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
-With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of yout
Row s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
Port Adelaide, October, S ” Kn * land
Gentlemen,-—I have great pleasure In recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several dootors for it without any
ourative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I oan, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
_ O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tam worth, August 11, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness reoelved
the undersignedi—
“ I have for many years been obliged to
medicines of different kinds for affections of
I ? di ,? eBtion ’ pain in the chest, general de
Dlllty, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find haf JrStoSd an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
boaily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“I am glad of the opportunity to make known
exoeUent Qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully youra,
“ MARY TERRILL,
~ „ " Carlisle Cottage, Lelohhardt.
Messrs. Ed. Row end Company, Sydney.”
DOWS
O-EMBRO CATION
)/ <5O LD
''EVERYWHERE-
Rowe Steal e s Wine
Is a safe and Bure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Row's Steane's Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity.
" Having ca efully examined a bottle of Row b
‘Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I consider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly free from any injurious
chemicals, too often used in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M’KILLOP, Analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1884."
Row s Steane's wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile Is unsue
passed,
TRY THEM.
Hotel-keepers all keep
SOW'S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROWS STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW'S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW'S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW'S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITT&KR
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
Sou Proprietors,
Edward Row & Company,
43, 40. 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Business Announcements,
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
BRUITO IPS
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOTJR
Omm be obtained throughout New Booth Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ... ... ... 84 Piit Sthuk.
BRISBANE... ... ...Edwabd Stbbbt.
MELBOURNE ... w Sp«K3BB Btriif,
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
Pitt Street.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured !
The Greatest Success \ / All Chronic Disease
of Modern Times. / CONSULT \ are Curable.
Ur. B. E. BUSELUANN, Consulting Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist foe all Chronic Diseases,
60 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE,
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at onoe what it is, and the cost for a
oomplete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1886
To H. E Kugelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the oure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of mv previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that 1 was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
ourable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse ; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die. —I remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
£3F All Consultations Free.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given whioh
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
not being Effected.
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Dolobeux, Aching Fains In the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Fains when ene
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure in a few days 1
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
necessary, In Bottles, Ib., 2b. Bd., os., and 10s,
OUBB FOB BLIGHT,
ROSE'S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Nnmerons tes-
timonials from those who have reoovered through
Its agenoy can be seen. Admitted by the Medloal
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured,
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. 1. IOSS, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
581 O-eorsze-s treat, only.
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin, for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
office.
a- 13 .a.arc t hotem
. • CORNER OF 7
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
COSCKOtfI
ijgSii
s3*
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon's Hotel)
Proprietress,
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
TBCEI raKIQ-KCTOasr OB 1 BT.e.W
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evoning Parties, eto., ass
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most reetarcJkl
dinner, you oan enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the Bea and surrounding country
here also you oan have good company, good wines—ln faot, everything that can possibly make one
oomfortable oan be found at this really flrst-olass hotel. Fishing and Plcnlo Parties provided. Tablt
it Hdtt at 1 o’olook daily and Sundays, No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminstm to make her
rlsltors oomfortable, and her Hotel the best In the ooiony.
In. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hetol,
Ovvomit* OCEAN BEACH. MARL'S
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Gaseitters, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Medieval Metal Workers
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
F'erdrlau <Oo.,
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURER 8 P
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
:o: ■
Rubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber goods for all purposes
Lists and Samples on Application.
LEA&PERRINS SAUCE
Tn tdHuquenci of imitationt tf TEEiWORCEST£RSiUSU9
SaUCE whkh an calculated"»
te »
worn
<%&
&S&8& QtSuM 90 hcllh of tfo original C VORCESTERSEJW
SAUCE & genuine.
Ask fist LEA o*4 PERRO& SdUce, end ifl tfamt on WrapUr, Label, BotSt ft*9
Stoppers Wholesale end for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester i . Crosse earn
blaetfoitl, London, &C...&C. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the Woftd,
IfrQM £Ut6) COBE9 mCdm &<*■»
T77“l}.a,t Is 37'o'dx Ho"b"b3r"?
■K.
Most people have one of
some sort. If you don’t
happen to have one, or
if you have been indulg-
ing in one which returns
but a poor satisfaction for
your outlay, g*et rid of it
as soon as possible. Better
be without than keel) a
bad one. If you have a
taste for Akt : if you
want a remunerative
hobby—try
Photography !
Instruments and Materials are not the costly toys they were. Anyone can learn it—every-
one can profit by it. The cost of every requisite for a beginner is so low it will surprise you.
SATISFY YOURSELF BY A VISIT TO OUR
WHOLESALE va PHOTOGRAPHIC va WAREHOUSES.
LICHTNER & CO.,
2 4 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Albert Street, BRISBANE.
Mf Send 2d. Stamp for our Illustrated Instruction Book and Catalogue, “ THE AMATEUR PHOCOGRAPHER.'
Assurance Companies.
THK AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MBNT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Aot of Parliament, 17 Vie.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... «. ~. 41,000,000
Paid-up and Subscribed ... ~ 480,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 8 years _ 7 per oent. I For 1 year 6 per oent.
For 6 months 1 per oent. | For 8 months- 8 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST oharge on its entire real and personal
property, including its unoalled oapital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, eto., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auotion and
Private Contract.
Hiad Ovvioh —10, & 12 HUNTER STREET
JNO, O. NEILD, Manager.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
Established 1849.
Head Office —87, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors:
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq., M.P., Chairman
JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Chief Medical Officer j
JAS. C. COX, M.D.
Actuary:
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary:
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
This Society is the only Australian Life Offioe
which declares a BONUS EVERY YEAR.
The PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF PROFIT
are —the high rate of interest obtained on the ac-
cumulated funds; the small percentage that the
expenses of management bear to the annual in-
come ; and the extremely favourable rate of mor-
tality which continues to be experienced.
MEMBERS MAY BORROW on their Policies
to the extent of 90 per cent, of the Surrender
Value.
Policies are not forfeited so long as the Sur-
render Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
BONUSES VEST after Policies have been two
full years in force.
ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
The Australian Mercantile Loan A Guarantee
COMPANY, Limited.
Capital £600,000.
Syiney Office:: Coraer of Met & York Streets,
Accident, Insurance and Guarantee Department.
General Accidents, Employers’ Liability,
Fidelity Guarantee Policies
Issued on the most Favourable Terms.
Pkoposal Fobms and Tables of Rates upon
application.
Robt. B. Wallace - Accident Superintendent.
The Company also, in its Banking' and Commercial
Departments, make Immediate Advances upon Deeds of
Land and all classes of Commercial Securities.
DEPOSITS received at 12 months, 7 per cent. ; six
months, 0 per cent.; and three months, 5 per cent., and
bonus at maturity.
A' By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL,
General Manager.
Business Announcements.
K'ng’s Views
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLAN CAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&c., &c.,
316 SEIM ST, i between Buater-et, ini S.f.D,
TATTERSALL’B
XOVSTEI COXSOLTIIIOIS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“ Evening News.” Address, “ Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, TattersaiJ’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing. ’
FOR SALE.—Two grand Water Frontages.
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers, Apnlv
Bulletin Office.


Fishing Tackle of every description for sea and
river fishing, Wholesale and Retail, Eastway’s,
411 George street, Sydney.
Ihe Model Suburb Notion.
In Sydney, the City of the Beautiful Harbour, a
city furnished by Nature with a site, on a lavish
scale, of hill and dale and inlet, creek and bay,
the system of overcrowding bids fair to rival in i‘s
stifliog densiby any aggregation of human dwell
iDgs on the face of the earth. The same system
that crams two or three “ drunks” in one narrow
cell and packs crowds into buildings whence in
the case of fire is no escape, op; rates to build
workmen’s model dwelling-houses and ventures to
palm off the hugglesome horrors of French flats
upon a trusting and apathetic co nmunity in the
name of heaven-inspire 1 and heartfelt charity.
It is too thin ! In business we believe the re is
very little philanthropy, yet in business also
there is much sense shown in providing the best
article for a people who have the money to pay
for the luxury cf having wh&t they want
Sydney is one of the most beautiful, and at the
same time one of the most hideous, cities on the
face of the earth. The beauty is Nature’s, the
hideousness is man’s. A tremendous Bheeb of
water capable of affording anchorage to the navies
of the world indents, in a hundred coves and bay-
lets, the outline of the city-shores. High ridges
swepb by the ocean breeze, gently graduated
valleys, steep descents, grassy knolls, and ver-
durous slopes exist only to afford man an oppor-
tunity of dressing beauty in a garb of ugliness.
Glued side by side, with a brain straining uni-
formity are streets upon streets of stifling, stuffy,
soggy terraces with Lilliputian yards badly
drained, rooms badly lighted, ventilated not at
all 5 rows rather of fever-dens and v motic disease
depdts than human habitations, Recently, how-
ever, a company has been formed with the purpose
of building a model suburb, and this company
has been so successful as to obtain for the purpose
1000 acres of the best land outside Sydney. It
is portion of the famous Cooper Estate, and bears
the old-world name of Kensington Park, situated
to the south-east of what are known as the
Eastern S iburbs. The promoters intend to avoid
the possibility of unsightliness and unhealthiness
in their model suburb ; which, by the way, adjoins
Moore Park on its southern boundary—a broad
surface of bre< ze-swept and undulating landscape
This area has long been leased to the Sydney
Municipal Corporation as part of the Botany
watershed, and it is intended to erect thereon an
actual extension of the City, laid out on most
modern principles and affording all the advantages
and conveniences provided in this age of advanced
scientific and hygenic knowledge and engineering
skill. The tramline will be extended from the
Moore Park and Crown street termini, and
will probably bisect the estate; Mr. E. D.
Cowdery has been secured to make a minute and
perfect levelling survey of the whole area ; public
and private squares will be provided ; a complete
and ideal system of sewerage and drainage
will be aimed at; and the Legislature will be
asked to constitute the estate —which is large
enough to the bounds o- amplitude for such a pur-
pose—into a separate municipality, and to pa-s a
special Building Act to insure the comfort and
convenience of the purchasers. In addition, this
model suburb will contain mews for the keeping
of horses, cows, and fowls, and thus set
apart from the area reseivad for human
habitation the noises and smells of the cow-
shed, the poultry-yard, and the stable. Here will
be built houses of whatsrver acceptable tj pe the
purchasers of the land may please, subject, of
course, to a special Building Act, on allotments of
a quarter-an acre each. There will be heard in
this model suburb no fish-criers, no milkmeD, no
butchers, no roar of street traffic, of tram or train,
no shrieking of steamboat-whistles, no blast of
foghorns, no chatter of parrots, no tinkettling of
pianos, no bands of Teuion origin, no organs re-
lated to monkeys or irritated into discord by the
sallow Neapolitan, and the voice cf the Salva-
tionist will b 3 hushed in the land. These at
least are some of the advantages claimed
for their model suburb by the members of
the syndicate, and if it be but only a tithe of
what they claim we shall be forced to remark
at some future date when this splendid ideal is
realised, in the language of Dr. Watts :
We have been there and still would go
’Tis like a little heaven helow.
In the meantime, we shall draw off and await
developments.
tint
H
. sv
*******
A (ItUEKSe.
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENC. CO., 8 BRIDCE-ST.. SYDNEY.
i. DELEUSE
I'ritprlitliiri
riEST-C X*A.©S HOUSE,
Wines, Trenth Liquors i Haranna Cigars a Speciality ,”. f , Sense, Cuisine Francaise,
LOVELY SKIN,
1 complexion, soft, smooth and delicate neck, faoe, hands and arms cam heat be obtain®*]
Sty discarding all leaden and greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, mot Jjataf sJtownS te
■KWfflaJta om this sMm cannot possibly hays any good effect on it, and by using
‘Rowland^’
JCalydor
3 aooling, soothing, healing and refreshing preparation for the face, hands and amts o£ all
nxposed to the heat and dust of summer or the cold and damp of winter; it eradicates freckles,
Han, sunburn, stings, redness and roughness of the skin caused by cold winds or the use of hard
water, removes pimples, spots, discolorations, chilblains, eczema, etc., relieves inflammation,
hums, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully smooth and
pleasant. Gentlemen after shaving will find it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin;
it is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, can be used with Impunity on the
«kin of the most delicate lady or child,
*s. 6d. and Bs. ®d, par bottle; bottles oi half the uaua,-
size at 2s. 3d.,
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL promotes the growth o 2 the hair, a®s
is also sold m a golden colour for fair-haired people.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevent* decay, and gives «
pleasing fragranoe to the breath. Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS’ articles, of *5, Matte*
warden. London, and avoid cheap, worthless imitations,
Wholasate »fl(1 tietall Agentß Elliot® Bbob., and B Pbossbb A OO m Sjdttßf.
THE
1 1
(Razor.
THE
PLUM”
Razor.
FOR Private Use la Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor, 10s. 6d.,
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CR/U6 & AITKE9S, Potosl Haircuttlng Saloon,
US' Nine Haircutters always Employed !
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
This most Celebrated Brand of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES
Has now the LARGEST SALE in the World.
M. Melachrino «Se Co., Cairo, and 21 Cockspur
Street, London,
Are by appointment Purveyors to H.R.H. Dukb of Con-
naught, H.R.H. Prince Henry of Prussia, the Courts
and Ambassadors of Europe,
The KHEDIVAL CLUB ... Cairo & Alexandria
” AR Sb AND N AV Y } London
„ GUARDS’ CLUB '.!! London
„ CARLTON CLUB ... London
and over
100 leading British and Continental Clubs.
The ROYAL ARTILLERY} W °£°StaSs 30
„ BLACK WATCH
„ COLDSTREAM \ Windsor
GUARDS | Windsor
„ ROYAL ENGINEERs} C s h »‘^ d
~ LIFE GUARDS ... London
and
150 other Regimental Messes of the British Army.
WARREN & ROWN,
Sole Agents,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of the Choicest Brands of
MASHA, mm and GERM CIGARS,
SW Sole Agents for tlie Cademcno Brand of
Egyptian Cigarette.
Fresh supplies arrive by every Mail Steamer. Cigarettes
always fresh and fragrant. Price Lists forwarded on
application.
»l« AAA given away ti buyers of a Bottle of Breadalbane
iiUjUUU Whisky. Shipped by Alex. F-reuson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from ail Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
BOSISTO’S ORIGINAL AMD GENUINE
EUCALYPTUS OIL is the best Remedy
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Sprains,
Chilblains, Whooping Cough, Asthma, Croup,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat, &c. Preserves furs from
moths. In the stable it is valuable for broken
knees, cuts, &c., whilst it keeps off the attacks of
flies. Ask for Bosisto’s ‘•Parrot” brand, and
avoid imitations, which can only lead to disap-
pointment. Full directions with each bottle. At
all chemists. Bosisto’s “ Parrot ” brand.
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried.”
(Signed ) Marie Rote.
™ e Y & N
PATENT
LiagopJ Seam Corset
Will not Stolit in the Seams nor
tear in tife Fabrio.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Bewire of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y&N
Corsetstamped “Y&N Patent
Diagonal seam Corset, No. 110,” in oval.
Three Gold Medals 11
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
JfHIS 3AIWOUO A STD lATOUEIXB BRAN*
Of
BRIAR PIPE 8.
SUU maintain! Iti Prertige and standi sura-amlnant amoa
the be iti of other brands aa
EH> BBBT QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OimiD SO
BMOKBRB
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
rr e onSerilgced are prepared to anfortg tba Law acabiH
ail psriom Imitating tbe brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT A 00.,
11l OLARBNOB.BTRBBS.
C4BD. a BD.
We bate Large Bhipmenu of this BRAND OP BRIAB
PIFBB <o band and Regular Shipment* aoaaing forward
WHOLBBALB ONLY
BICKIIOAKD BUGGIES j^2Q
Regular shiprn nts of the Best Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
I
1 Old Cent-1 emarf seems to be
look Bad Has he been ta~
kind Rouh on Rats'? Guess <k-cfd)n.
Vvfeli I wilJ tell you He hds been
to the Wo-mens Jndustridl Exhibition,and
tdrted their cook-ery.
A LEAP PROM “THE BULLETIN” PRIMER
Parsonal Pars.
The Prince of Wales has contributed 50
guireas to the building fund of the R.C. Church
at Lynn, England.
A wrinkle for parsons’ wives. A Mel-
bourne congregation has assured its minister’s
life for a cool thousand.
Da Witt Talmage Is quoted as sajing : .
“ Men in our days speak of Heaven with a
shout, and of hell in a whisper.”
David Buchanan says ths Salvation Army
approaches nearest to the religion as established
by Peter and the other Apostles.
Dr. Moore, R.C. Bishop of Ballarat, is
bringing out a marble altar which has cost 2000
guineas. The parishioners want the bread of life,
and get the orthodox stone.
Revd. Inglis, of Walapu (N.Z.), says the
belief in universal salvation is “ pleasing to the
carnal mind.” Bad look-out for Inglis when this
belief becomes universal too.
A Melbourne clergyman went to sleep in
his pulpit during morning service Sunday before
last. The incident is considered peculiar as he
was not preaching at the time.
Canon Soares recently delivered a lecture
at Goulburn (N.S.W.) on “money.” The local
paper noted that he “ handled his subject well.”
That is a way the c’ergy have got.
The Christian World (Sydney) leads off
a scathmg article with the words : “ What is the
reward for lying ?” It all depends on the style of
the journal for which the lying is provided Some
editors receive £lO a week and some only 10s.
Speaking of the growing penchant of
clergymen for “ annexing ” the sermons, lectures,
and general brain-work of other men, the S. M.
Herald asks, “ How can any man accurately
state where he obtained all his mental furniture ?”
Bishop Barry is to return to Australia
proforma, but will at once resign his See and pro-
ceed to England to rejoin Mrs. Barry, who firmly
declines to live in Australia. As so many Aus-
tralian prelates are on the move it is suggested by
a Sydney newspaper that an import and export
duty be placid by the “ kawlinies ” upon bishops.
The C. E. Synod of Melbourne has decreed
that in future appointments to bishoprics in Aus-
tralia local men shall have their claims for the
positions honestly considered. This will be a
further incentive to parsons to keep their names
well to the front by writing regularly to the cor
respondence columns of the S. M. Herald and
Argus.
Archdeacon Julius, of Ballarat, declares
that the custom of offering prizes for the best-
dressed young ladies at rinking contests, and so
on, “ h simply iuvitmg them to come to the devil.”
As one of the chief incentives young ladies have
for attending church is to show off their head-
gear we want to hear the rink-proprietor’s
opinion as to the fate which awaits the girls who
go to hear Archdeacon Julius.
Canon Wilberforce recently declared that
brewing and distilling are the main industries of
Dublin, that one Protestant Cathedral was built
by porter-brewing, the other by whisky-distilling,
and the largest Presbyterian chapel there was
also ra ; sed by a whisky-manufacturer. Eather
GodsJvo Kavanagh should cow figure out how
much of St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney, has been
built by the brewers and publicans.
At the closing services in connection with
the Pan-Anglican Conference, in St. Paul’s
Cathedral, London, the Archbishop of York de-
clared that Socialism is “ the result of avarice and
luxury.” He might have gone a step farther, and
pointed to the “ frightful examples ” of these vices
which are to be found amongst the ranks of the
clergy. On the other hand, the human misery
accruing from avarice and luxury is the result of
our not having Socialism.
Though that godly organ of parsondom
the Melbourne D.T. professes a holy horror of the
turf, still it reports race-meetiDgs, training-
gallops, and starting prices, while the unregenerate
Evening ’Erald utterly ignores these things—for
Editor Winter reserves the turf for his other
organ, the Sportsman. To be consistent the D.T.
should follow the example of Sir Edward Baines,
of the Leeds Mercury, who eliminated from his
paper all allusion to horse-racing.


Hotels.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN, N.SAV.
Ij'IRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
■*- gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
n le rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
"OUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QUEENS-
i' LAND.
J“der the distinguished patronage of His Ex-
Uency Sir A. Musgrave, K.CM.6. Accommo-
l° r v i s ' tors - Two-storey buildings. From
thp , con i es a splendid view can be obtained of
® celebrated mountain of gold, and within a few
lutes’ walk of the company’s works. Passenger
w Ena G coaches daily from Rockhampton and
railway-stations. W. MONCKTON, Pro-
i! letor > of the firm of Monckton and Co.
MOUNT MORGAN. |
ft, ■ F" J,CZn wiK
Queensland National Jiotel,
BEDROOMS.
20
I'SIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
tc 18 now ready for the reception of visitors,
comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiskb, Proprietress.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
°f?o
MELBOURE.
' si tk Railway Terminus, Spencer Street.
VISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
'fill latel y I 13, 1! an addition of over 100 rooms,
loft modern improvements, such as light,
r ot) F and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
iels t L eec^e baths passenger elevator, electric bells,
Phone, an d all other hotel requisites, not to be
u Passed in Australia. Visitors can rely upon
and ? I ca, H e d for early morning trains. Letters
telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
PETER WOODS,
w Owner and Proprietor.
Medical.
DR, SPEER’S
DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET^
- en George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dri
g 6r * 8 a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
m ar( l College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
q. ette > January 21st, 18S0; also New South Wales
j, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
8{ F S <*> the study of CHRONIC,: NERVOUS, AND
tosn?J4E DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
all on 8 fbe United States, which enables him to treat
hi lri °^Plaints with excellent results. All applying to
lioevT! 1 . receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
A ; no Mercury used. Ilefwill guarantee
£2f)() tr? cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
6tg a '. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
it ot ,' c disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
a Cert - Wor ds, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
hloverf -111 - resu h, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
tie w; the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees,
to p e !f es it distinctly understood that he does not claim
iieU; m impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
tW n ,, I s , °nly to be a skilled and successful physician
Spjwddy informed hi his speciality—CHßONlC and
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
detail .'M at a distance can, by explaining'their troubles in
hot be Seated at home. The course of treatment will
ti° n any way interfere with their business. Examina-
a d y ice free to all. Charges "moderate. H. J.
Stw’H.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Ifj a Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
It ten i to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
a.m. only.
R I
C H
I
R m. -
fop for lar ee Bound BOOK on SELF-CUTtfe
all Nervous Diseases ; price, including post
in stamps. Consultation costs nothing.
Doctor will tell Vou at once whether your
curable or not. Address-
RICHARDS,
7, SPRING STREET, SYDNEY,
f *ee
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
■■ be found in the “'LIGHT AND
t 5,p t 5, ’ for the s P eed y Gure of nervous de:
and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of
s/ bo °k will be sent Free, scaled, for Six Penny
P 9, Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street Sydney.
°OLEMAN£& SONS’
Ettcalypte Oil
w AND ■'»«
,;igtory Ointment.
EXTRACT from the. Euoalypte Tree.
j M a • „„< IM
rde <i GOLD’MEDAL* Adelaide Exhibition,'
t» . beating all other competitors.
riz e Great Centennial Exhibition, Sydney.
Can , 1 M
s used for Consumption, Asthma, Bron-
r|Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Bad Legs, Kidney
1 Complaints, Sprains, Colds, Dysehtry,
1 etc * Posted to any address.
Manufactory : Cootamundea
Depot
_ : 227 .ELIZABETH [STRESS
Sold by all Chemists. :.Ji
GaXJ BUNBLAND. ISTZ ZZ
*BL A R, CARTER ANDj [CO.,
jjrj, Shipping and Forwarding Agents, n KfWj
° C K iAND
W** Office—227 Queen-street. 2T: JCJ
Sb A l onc y- Joh n Btob*. 17 Custom House
k
fhPelh^ 8 ’ Cir cular Quay.
‘.oOUruo a m
v?hih,? Urne Agency
a , rs > Market St
W%JI
T. H. ? Young, [Phoenix
Street.
and Agencies throughout’Queensland.
hri SYDNEY JDUljl-iBTINj
a Edition, Publishers FITZ-
v'-AjJJ /rtavablfl Rlirinfilv
BROS. Subscription (payable Btriotly
Shillings and
he Pound per annum.! j
a *te )t ~“*' :e b Six Shillings and
r iot O; ~ - “
Ae Brr ~
will be on sale every Friday at
Ceorge Street, or from" the runners'in
. Hi
Business Announcements,
MANUFACTURERS
& IMPORTERS
OF
&
$
oV
HATS CAPS &t
438CE0Rc7s t
SYDNEY m
/?p/>o3t(~e LassetCerv
UMBRI It. LAS
RE-COVE RE 0.
STjiosr Kca&rowi
*nd
Bare y our Brohrella Pnbarffe
corered, and yotte
ParasOkrre-lined and QUtgMHB
to <New, at
J. SULLIYAir^
541 George Stree|
. Brickfield Hill, Bet*.
lAreepoot and- Bathurst i
Parasols made to
tumea. Repairs neatly <
PALACE FAMILY HOTEL
Corner of
Stanley and Melbournb Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE
Slnt'daßß Accommodation. Suites of Apartments
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DA VXD LYONS Proprietor
E
XOELSIOR HOTEL,
TOWERS.
CHARTERS
Seoond Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS,
OTHERS.
AND
£60,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
Btreet, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable In
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES, i "1
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight in
fold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
'ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Redfern, Sydney.
, MANUFACTURING. HATTWS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
1 1< PORTERS Of At l THE
ME WEST SHAPES.
HNvasraH ‘iHHHis jcaaa'iv »« p«v
; j 1 j: .)rti
;W,H mm p 0 ,
~, iiin i i v ”%a
»i.
FIRST CLASS AWARD
c> r
DEGREE OF MERIT
I
•A
t..
& 7
yj
*
ISTHE BIST INmWORi:O
S*BJ
waug hs
j KECKiVECTHfc INTERNATIONAL
PRjZEME DAL
m
Business Announcement*.
A WONDERr UL MEDICINE,
BEECHAM’S PILLS
&
PATENT
s
xn
LLS
Pi
a?
&
£
$
Are universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Biliou* and Herrons
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
('old Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Doss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costiveness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
ling Sensations, &c. The first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Tor females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humours* and
bring about all that is required. No female should
b® without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
wilf soon restore females of all ages to sound aqd
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BEECHAM’S PILLS have the Largeet Sal a of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
WTaeesing, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
oulty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
Satient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
OUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. l}d. and 2s. 9d. each.
Sold by all Druir gists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere..
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
FPKH BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
A Sydney Branchesi
SI PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Pald-np Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund... ... ... 500,000
The Bank haa Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, Mtd can offer special facilities for dealing
In Bullion, Bills of Exohange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred’t.
Drafts Issued and Bills ot’leoted on most favour-
able terms, at rates which oan be ascertained on
application.
N. F, GIBLIN Acting Manager,
s
OIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mobb MERCURY ob otheb Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHTp
M. 8., Ch. M., &0.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds, the Diploma of Physioian and Surgeon, has
established the
Victorian Progressive Medical Institute*"!'
SB, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
for' the; soientiflo and effectual oure of all phases of Net-
vous Debijity, Chronio and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright ouree Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Inoapaoity for Study
Or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, oall or write to Dr. Wright, and ret his
honest opinion of your oomplaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so : if not, he will tell you also, lor he will
not undertake a case unless he is oonfldent of effeotlng a
oure. It will oost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yonrs that the Dr. understands your oase.
.CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Bnfterera can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish It distinctly understood that I do hot olalm
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
1 claim only to be a skilled and euooessful Physioian
thoroughly Informed In my speciality.
Note Address—
fMlUHin KEDICAL
68, Flinders Street W., Melbourne.
tBT Mo connection with any other Medical Institute In
Australia. Box 868. G.P.O.
w
office.
ANTED, Files of The Bulletin tor the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
Business Announcements,
Guiness’s Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
’a Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Balchin, Johnston & Go.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, SytbMM
Robert butcher at oo
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine ani
Spirit Business to -j
692 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and out* tf
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should geta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
G. STEPHENSON
HAS ON BALK-
WINE CASES, BREWERS’ CASES, VAlt|
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISEY PUNCHEONS.
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCEETS, &C.
COOPERAGE,
887 EENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STRESS
Between King and Market Streets,
aft«. Hr«m Mottsticho Mi Wklhtri. »Ero.»
OWfeAtwK. i
Bbyd’e Bear A Elixir did this,
\and trill do it on either bald
'head or bare face- Force*
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fail*, 20,000*
young men already wear full
beards, having used Ito 3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, oertako
in effect. Packets, It. 6 d. taeh, 3 for 3». dd. post paid, sent undoes
cover, free from observation „ Address, B , e»«k BougUs, Sols Agent,
BoaTS
s.
WALDBR, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin kICBQI
188 PITT BTRKKT,
Min bo laeobMT*
JOHN BUCKHkI,
286 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon
Covers (Greased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
Coolers, Whin Buckets all sizes, at lowest prices.
Note the Address.
Oldest established house In the trade.
JOHN BUCKHAM,
286 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL »
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-streei (opposite Royal
Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
A
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
torpaaset all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Tnaea Gold M*nxtft-«
PARIS,IB7B, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson's celebrated
gEATJ BE COLOGNE.
It unequalled for it* strength and delighttal
fragrance It far surpasses me numerous
compounds sold under the some name.
ATKINSON'S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
"hi* world-renowned soap is superior to all
others for cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use
0/ aU Beaten, anti sf the Manufactweri—
}. & B ATKINSON,
21, Ow> Bond Strxkt, London
Trade Mark—'*White Hose" on“ Golden .
Byre.” Jk


BEHAN’S
Slack Oils
OR
EMBROCATION,
FOR
HISSES, MILE I US.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Scars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES. GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGE;
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS aud ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Wholesale :
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co , S. Hoffnung
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power
Eagle Street, Brisbane ; E. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J, BEHAN, V.S., 33 Pit* Street, Redfern.
PBIGE ... 3s, 6d . Per Bottle,,
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the ciivHsed world where
th h a!i■ g virtues of these grand medicines have not been
ret! » nised bv rhousauds of sufferers. In ail the ordinary
a iments of humanity their benefleient notion is at once
r- C vviised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
it. every disease,’ IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured onlv at 78 New Oxfoed-st., London. £3T Pur-
chasers s oh Id look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they are
spurious.
IMPORTER OB’
9
S3T WINWS, SPIRITS, IB 33DEHXS & C., <ScC_ «£*
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years ole); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’a, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerae's Brandies (5, 10, ’5, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported arid Bottled by P.R.L.
AST The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes.-. 43T All B ands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arrivs> g by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wliolesa e and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney,
42T SEND EOR A PRICE LIST. W
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' REFRESHMENT" ROOM and LAVATORT,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street , Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MAfcON BROTHEBB,
-
(MMITBD,) OTRjBIX,
263 to 269 KEN I
STOSB*. gu|
Have always in
to the Trade and Wholes
Buyers OPo*
ironmongery
GENERAL
GLASS, CHINA,
E ARTHE^NWAB*
WINES, BEERS
BITLK^eSS^
g ON9
J. SORIN AND CO.'S
Cognac*
S* 5
W E 0A N REOOM
B. EUGEIS'*
(From Paris)
Ladies’ and GeNTI® 8 *
Hairdressing
As the most central and well-apP o *®
French and English Perfumery. 1 jjalr.
Private Rooms for Dyeing t
NOTE THE ADDRESS-
»TIiSbwk snog*.-*
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to
MELBOURNE.
IB-a.lla,rd-, 3-42 G-eorgpo Street, S'srd.rr©^'
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIO. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
FANS, EASELS, BRACKETS, PURSES, CARD CASES & JAPANESE CURIO 9,
BALL PROGRAMMES. CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
INSPECT THE SWEET
APSBURG PIANO
AX XHB
Wertbeim
SEWIM3 MACHINE DEPOTS
' IN
"WIT T » "W £Sk
JSL JL JbW& JHn «1
MELBOURNE
»l •••
91 *»«
Richmond ...
Windsoh
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
BTAWELL
EOHUOA
BEECH W ORTH ...
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL...
SALE
MARYBOROUGH
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanaton Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourse street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
... ... Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
... ... Sturt Street.
... ... Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
... ... 56 Moorabool Street.
... ... Main Street, next Aeschimann’s.
... ... High Street.
... ... Camp Street.
... ... Gray Street.
... , ... Fairy Street.
... Foster Street.
... ... High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROU9HOUT TH*
G-« 3T 1 .. PICKLES d© SDITS f Ca,xxlstgre
THE MOST EXTENSIYB ESTABLISHMENT OE ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA g«
City Repository i - - 8, 7,8, 11 LATROBE STREET WEST, MEi
MatropoUtan Hanntectory s - 32, @4, 36 BRUNSWICK STREET, FiT2B°V^
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETf U
*55
NEW TABLE. —TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in ttie Event of Survival, FULL
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. KST Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
|| E R V O U' • O € S,J 4. i 1;
a rasft MsojOAt. book. r,r j£3\
HERR RAfM(J3|SSr, T&a Qjlebratjd Danish Herbalist. Span*.;** la Met’'
Will Bead (past f»sa) to aa/oaaa Bees Medioal Book on Sabr-Oia* roa Wsmiro■»* ’Daw* ®* t
Disease*. It gives apaalal alvies to all kind of jafferers. AiDa a-, ; i
IBE3R [BASHIJSSEIf, * ' -
167 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARR* SYDNEY, NEW|;SOUTH
MFW BILUARIi TABU SHOW ROOMS & „ s
TO,UtABr- WSqtONS,. <*»., H4i)B ON THF PKE "
Old ‘Tables re-Htted by our owo «* e - u '
c&4MmtTJES,BAU,S jr, *tock,aln« CBICSIT, LAW®
BUBBOUGHES & WATTS
% m lt Seorge Street, SYDNEY, S.S.W., ail Sote
