

“rn
LOO 230 ©TTT’
ME BULLETIN’S" ANTI-CHINAMAN.
A SPECIAL NUMBER. PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED.
Sla.o-wi CLgr T’v r li.37‘
LEPER MUST CHANGE HIS SPOTS.
To ensure supply, distant agents will please mail their orders at once.
PRICE, 6d.
CORNER OV
H u
"Her & pgtt Streets, Sydney.
V(4 Family Hotel is constructed on the most modem principles,
huVs c ate d Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
to a 8 * 1 °°aalderatlon, position most central, Hydraul_[ Lift for Guests and
0l!0l]a Pti &f*,r fran S e,: dents perfect, Bath
on.
perfect. Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.
JfiETH like pearls,
Wth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gvms, and delighft-
u,l n« daUy re *™ Cftn best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powder* and acid wash**
Odonto
free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients; it whitens and pi
nd arrests decay, eradicates scurvy, strengthens the gums, and „
the breath, while its anti-septic and anti-scorbutic properties exercise
" ‘ ' ’ ns. All Dentists allow that neither washes ox
r the teeth and preventing decay as a pure *nd
ODONTOJba* always proved ifcelf.
Uftta 1 No other”Odonto i* genuine.
'"••“mMNDS’ macassar oil
R fill and children.
n 2»a"‘rANDs’ KALYDOR beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneou*
Wh-, " B Ofw, the skin soft, smooth and delicate. Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS*
- . nation Garden, London, and avoid spuriou* and pernicious imitation*.
l gredlent* of the Oriental
It whitens and preserve*
givee a
b now sold in a golden colour tog
n oW
ail< l Retail Agents—Elliott Bros., and E. Prosskr & Co., Sydney.
l,ltl K to i
a»ert I'amUt
AN ° OINTMENT,
’**^ a to»' £,?.*“ ‘he olTllUed world where
, to " “°* '""
lj a < 4,® j* »l ‘heir ssaettoent
S'* »Jw *i?i»lied e »I B< !S* n i*ed.
<f BR Qlf fn t S 6il ' aae ln e,er *
NjS©* »hlti T 8 THEM
\z**« ?W4 loQSr?" London
\ ** hot sj, ‘he Label on tbe Boxim »nd
Oxtard-itraet Lon*«n *w
St *^IBYJBIIABSIt
s?ss cr™ N oprioa -
A N Dnd » warohed tor.
jj- ** Bu PPUed witih reliable
6IU «BANE.
c
I
*
TS CAPS it
mceoßcz sr
A.dSm
“PLUM
RAZOR.”
THE
“PLUM
RAZOR.”
F
OR private use is unsurpassed, (?e» uine German Hollow Ground, set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee it for two (2) years. PRICK, 10s. 6d. each. Send P.O. Order.
CEiilG- staacL iiITZIEIT,
POXOSI HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
680 GEORGES XREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
BEAD
“The Lithgow Enterprise,
AND
" Australian Land Nationalise!*.”
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW. N.S.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
IT to the authorised organ of the Land Nationalisation Association of New South Wales. Its
object) is to firmly inaugurate in Australia Henry George’s great scheme of Land Reform-to d
for these colonies what the Standard to doing for America. It has already a more wide-spread
circulation than any country paper in the colony, and reaches nearly every part of New South Wales
It to smartly and fearlessly written, and every man who has the Interests of hjs fellow-men at heart
should get it, and Induce others to do so. Everybody interesced in this movement who does not al-
ready belong to the Association to requested to write to the editor.
AGENTS WANTED.
THE SUBSCRIPTION IS—l2s. PER ANNUM.
LIBERAL TERMS GIVEN. SEND FOR SPECIMEN COPIES,
' Jt-jtf ****** ■
-JS'SAUCE
saug
In consequence of Imitations of THIS WORCJSIi 1. RRSHIK.M
SA UCE which art calculated to decern; the Public, Lea and Perrin§
have to request that Purchasers m that the Lab's m mtp bottle
bears their Signature thus—
without which n$ bottle of the original WORC ESTERS MIMM
SA UCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRONS’ Sauce, and see Nam* on Wrapper, Label, J&ottto tend
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, <s r*c., (fc.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World .
0- ——l. ■■'■lll—lll
Wbuletale Agents : & Co,, i David Co,, Sydney.
The Bulletin


THE LEADING AND CHEAPEST HOUSE FOR
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
and Musical Instruments of every description, Is
V. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.
856 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, 3 DOOR FROM G.P.O.
ALL the best makers kept In stock, and every Instrument guaranteed. The Iron-framed
“ VICTOR Plano excels all others, and Is fully equal In every respect to Pianos sold at £52 and £55.
Call and Inspect, or send for Photo, and particulars. UEBEL AND LECHLEITER Pianos, and
BBTEY and Co,'s American Organs are both marvels of cheapness.
EABIEBT TIME PAYMENTS, FROM 20s. A MONTH.
iArd man Bros.
iscuit Manufacturers
COWAMORS
' erf’cc i factory, ncwtowk
TOraßjTiiTairr
GcL*f*Srx*f
TftCACU
r sro
ess
B/fJUfCH. Ccaret SI. Snwrr
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE CORNER 0* PITT anfl
MARKET STREETS. SYDNEY.
Incorporated by Act of Executive Council.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
The Hen. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A.
J. F. Marlin, Esq.
John Vann,
J. H. Nathan,
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathay, Esq.
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business, Current
accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and makes Advance*
upjn all kinds of Commercial Securities. Agencies in Lon-
d n and throughout the world. Overdrafts granted against
deposits of Deeds. Deposits received. Interest allowed
at oall, 8 per cent.; 3 months, 4 per cent.; 6 months, 5 per
cent.; 12 months, 6 per cent. By order of the Board of
Directors. H. M'N AMARA, Secrerary.
THOS. BUUKLAND,
MINING MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AOIII
Ohartbks Towbbs.
Agent for Bo bey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln!
„ i, Langland's foundry Co., Melbourne, ▼!§.
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION ABXMt,
Minins Exchans*,
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
A
ILAS
ED.
STUDY ECONOMY
*nd
■an four Umbrella fnan tt-
eovered and vonr
Faraiol* re-Uned and atada e«aa
to Hew, at
J, BULLIVAN’B,
Ml George Btreet,
Brlekfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathnnt Street!
Faraiol* made to mateh sm
Bepalri neatde exaeated
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
C HARTERS TOWJBRB
QXJE3BISrS3L.-A.3SrP-
If ILLAB, CARTER, AND Ca,
T 1 Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office. —227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency.—John Bros., 17 CustomlHouse
Chambers, Circular Quay.j
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branohes.and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Robert butcher at co
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
692 a GEORGE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, In and out 01
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
Belle Vue Hotel,
*1 *
BBIBBANa."IT’Pe
Opposite. Parliament Houses, Botanical Gardens,
and Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
ACCOMODATION FOR 90.
A Waiter Meets Every Steamer.
Letters and telegrams please address pro-
prietor.
8. M. COLLINS.
>
=
° Co
X
m
>
70
r
ir,
m
Tbade Mark— "TONIC N3RVINE.
M
ARSH ALL'S TONIC NBRYINB
Promotes Appetite,
Improves Digestion.
Cores Nervous Debility*
Sola by all Chemlstß and Storekeepers—Price 1/8.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Rnm, N.B, W, j London, Bnqland,
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner or Starlet and Melbourne Streets
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-olasa Accommodation, Suites of Apartment*.
Admitted the ooolest and beet ventilated
house In the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
SWALDER. Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilakln Maker
• 896 Pltt-street.
nk
-7r
m
- fer
OmULt*
9*6
Marquees on Hire,
THE ORIGINAL
Baking
m
O^O
%
OBTAINtO A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR
HIGHEST DECREE OFMEHII
ISTHEBESTWTH£WOfUD|j
HOWE OTHERB UT
WAUC H S
RECEJVtIiTrtE (NTCRNAT jON A L
PRITEMCDAL
MABUfACTUBED BYjAIiEsOIAIIIBMI
Bamvub «*«*©«**
&MtyAD toc«»*iuf startup®
% 'jtVQLMXAnS.BIUC MOUNTAINS
516CEQRCSI Sffcrara* n«m£«cJ>.a
JAY'S PRINCE OP WALE S HOTEL,
ST. KILDA.
THIS flrßb-olaHB Hotel offers superior accommoda-
tion to visitors and residents, being In a healthy
and central position, fronting the Bay, near Es-
planade and Baths, and within flve minutes’ walk
of the St. Hilda Ballway Station. Private suites
of apartments. Ladies' drawing-room. Gentlemen’s
smoking-room. Hot and cold baths without
extra oharge.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MAOKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for ocmmer-
olal travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer,
I make oomfort of travellers a special study,
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor,
TOBACCO
♦
DIXON & SONS
TOBACCO WORKS,
SYDNEY.
IXSON ft SONS' CONQUEROR *
not only manufactures
mob®
1>
“ wu rnvstJMKS
THAN ANY OTHER, but CO>»
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LfCAF
r nto New South Wales, and hence the
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any
Australia,
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, C:
gold leaf.
HIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S NO 1 ma °
10,000 per hour, the choloest V
and Paris .rice tissue. Eu'l 9 * W
retailers at .per packet. I®
Q
&
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & a
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &c., MADE ON THE PREMISES
Old Tables re-fltted by our own men.
CLOTHS, CUES,BALLS in stock,also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS «
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Square,
MIMING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
‘GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitt Room.
Rendeßvooa for all parties engaged In mta
business.
H. G, BAILEE), Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Showei
Bath. Billiards (Aloook's). First-olass ofcsA
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, June., Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS
Head Office) Townsville, I. Queensland,
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henoeforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst. Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every oomfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the aooommoda
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel Coaches
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Noxr shr Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm tf Lewsy fc Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL,
MOUNT MORS AD.
{Si
1:
=*3
P*^*ittU*JUßsEß
a*l m
g®&sB
: '
rsx*9-
«■**
SSS?
J ' .?
„ .>«
rjIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
F Sarea labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner In the letter-press,
j Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agen ,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kent-street.
M:0 ivmvfl M E N T
1b Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs"and Estimates forwarded on request.
ZT *J. CUMRIBJGHAM,
(Margaret-stkeet, Wyn yard-square, Sydhey.
'XJtTJS oan recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
v v ting Saloon as the best In Brisbane*
Tobacco and cigars of the beat brands. Address >
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Queens-street. A. COOPER, Proprietor.
TH Kj| science of live,
Bt W. Knox Pabkbb, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. SOO pages*
bound In cloth, and oontalns over 100 prescript
tlons. Prioe, post paid, Bs. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases Bhould send at onoe for this
valuable work. Address: Doctor W, K.
Parker, Post Offioe Chambers, corner Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vic.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
2B_ HncxGKEnsrEFe
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
A the most central and well appointed [of any In
the oity.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK
Frenoh and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
Not* the Address—
-06 KLIZABETH-STREET
(A tew doors from G.P.0.),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
HTKR COMPLAINT positively j
FRUIT PILLS. W» m«re eared, no* (ofl“ r *J| < i> ?.
*r» oan pro re what we aet. fher* w* P l .
dlisappclntnlcnta. MOULTON'S Pa ~A T iOH
all BILIOUHNRBB. prerent
PERSIA. promote DIGESTION. J?i® T sf tW ffl' ,
bw»rtf eating, corrvct DISORDERS W (IA )(A
•Simulate pie LIVER, regulate th< l! Y (retuW P*
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and "T g*v»f‘, u »
known, purely Vegetable (made of . t o r» 1
«JL*y are u nearly perfect ae It U jd- .
Said Irerywhere. * >r frOP t>[
C. £. MOULTON Sol
OUNT MORGAN HOTEL. <3
Under the distinguished pac-r, q §
oellenoy Sir A. Musgrave, K,c „ unil ~
dation for 60 visitors. Two ■ storey p O I P
the balconies a splendid view o*
the celebrated mountain of 8°* d ' jjta. ‘
minutes' walk of the company
and mall ooaches dally from
Kibra railway-stations. W. "* nd Co.
prlbor, of the firm of Monokton an
R
M.
i Detective ■/
• (late of the - (
Private Inquiry, Missing P fl e®£ o’ei 0 ’ ei
Business Agency ° n jjjjfi
12 ROYAL ARCADE, sY \
fession and others. Copies of
marriage, or death, obtained in aI JJ j>.' e °Vi clJ ,ij',.>
Rents and debts collected. Prom »•“iyaled.,[
in the Detective Force of New South " i 0
ad, and established WfX
in a position to conduct ail ss
New Zealand,
globe, he is '
expedition and strictest secresy, a ““ )( j
promptly attend to all business entrust
MACHINERY
LAND
ANO
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
HO 1
/
/
0
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS,
ESTIMATED FOB CO
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
l
me
s tb
KING
22,
FREE
PRE SOBIP2
be found In the
LIFE,” for the Speedy Care eof
bllity and Kindred Diseases, & 0 ' {o r 3
book will be sent Free, seaio /
Stamps. Address-
Sydney Phar
unter- 6
76
a WARD « CO,
r
BAST STBKKT, J
MrVIRST-OLASS FA*«^
Plunge and Sbowe*
Private Sitting Room. witM*”’
OOOd Stabling. Ktott AO«^
JAS. WILUAMSON'


The Bulletin
Tol 9 -*?o. 423
SATURDAY, MARCH 10, 1888
Price. CML
The Man of Destiny—If he only Liked.


LOOK OUT FOB
" THE BULLETIN’S ” ANTI-CHINAMAN.
A SPECIAL NUMBER.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED.
SHOWING WHY
THE LEPER MUST CHANGE HIS SPOTS.
To ensure supply, distant agents ] will please
mail their orders at once,
PRICE-SIXPENCE.
"THE BULLETIN,"
The National Australian Newspaper.
Proprietors : BULLETIN! NEWSPAPER CO ,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... Os. (Jd
Half-yearly ... .. ... 0 12s, OJ.
Quarterly ... ... 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques, Drafts, <be., and all Business Communications to he
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communicationstobcaddressed to J. F. Archibald.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shilling
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to reside its of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered bit mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, -with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, MARCH 10, 1888.
Free Newspaper Postage.
Mr. M'Elhone’s motion in the New South Wale 3
Assembly last week to the effect that the free
carriage of newspapers through the post be
abolished revealed a serious falling off in the num-
bers of the loud and voluble gang of brigands
who have rallied up to whoop for so many vil-
lainous steals in the course of the past year. Out
of the 126 members who mate up -the New South
Wales Lower Houm only 36 ventured upon any
expression of opinion, and of these 19 voted for
and 17 against the continuance of the perennial
robbery which is carried on binder the name of
free newspaper postage. Sir Henry Parses, as
the unnatural father and dry-nurse of the system
by which the Freetrade Press of Sydney is sub-
sidised at immense cost to the country at laTge,
led the opposition, and poured forth the balm of
his husky eloquence upon the ponderous journals
which support his policy in columns of chloro-
form and lead ; and the Cabinet followed him and
voted as one brigand on behalf of the cause, but
the arguments put forth in defence of the Premier’s
cherished institution were in every case lament-
ably weak. In an assemblage of ordinary intelli-
gence, indeed, the pleas urged in defence
would in themselves have sufficed to damn
the cause past all redemption, but then in-
telligence is the article in which the present
New South Wales Assembly is most defi-
cient. Manners and honesty are both in short
supply, but, however conspicuous their absence
may be, the dismal folly of the House is the
feature which will make it most prominent in the
future days when it will be dead and stuffed and
relegated to an honoured position in History’s
Chamber of Horrors.
• * *
The New South Wales Post-Office is at present
run at a loss of £BO,COO annually, and for this
condition of things the Barnacle of the gin-shop
who is responsible for the management of the De-
partment, has no remedy to suggest. r J ha cause
of this tremendous shortage is undeniably the
system of free newspaper postage, Even allow-
ing that the published statements of the Sydney
dailies as to their circulation are one-half
Ananias, the imposition of a charge of a half-
penny upon each journal carried by mail would
almost be sufficient to restore the financial equili-
brium and make the Post-Office a self-supporting
institution. The wealthy newspaper proprietors
of Sydney—the Fairfaxes, the Bennetts, and
the crowd of escaped parsons who print their
washy platitudes in the daily press—are, in the
lowest sense of the word, pensioners on the
nation. They receive their annual dole out of the
Treasury like the meanest pauper, and the fact
that they receive it indirectly does hot lessen the
degradation of their position. Every citizen,
from the wealthy merchant down to the hungry
r ag picker, is taxed, more or less, to sup-
port this race of clamorous mendicants, who
take the country’s alms with a patronisingly
cut-throat air, and are perpetually demanding
more, and threatening ruin and destruction
and political convulsions and social smash if
their demands are not supplied. And not only
is the nation taxed to the extent of some
£BO,OOO per annunrthat this race of sturdy paupers
may have their goods carried free by post, but a
further outlay of £4O 000 a year is incurred for
special trairs to convey their merchand'se
gratis to all parts of ihe colony; and so tenaciously
do they assert their right to raid the Treasury
of a semi-insolvent land to tte extent of
about £lOO,OOO annually, that no Government,
seemingly, dare interfere with this stupendous
national steal. Tin? Minister who ventured to
insist that the Fairfaxes and the Bennetts
should pay their way, instead cf turning the tax-
payer into a beast of burden to carry the load of
their political sermons and dirty divorco reports
all over a weary laud, wtuld inevitably he written
down, and, worse still, suppressed down ; acd
rather than run the risk of facing tbo undying
malevolence of that glorious Palladium of t.ur
liberties-the daily Pre?e—each member of the
Cabinet gives his obsequious vote in defence of
the greatest political fraud ever perpetrated out-
side the halls of Tammany.
* » *
Newspaper postage, according to Mr. Garrett,
the ex-“ red-hot burning brand of shame ” of the
New South Wales Assembly, is a “tax upon
knowledge," and, as such, a thing to be ahhorred
by the apostles of light, but the gentleman from
Milburn Creek does not attempt to csrry his
opinions to their log'cal conclusion, or to suggest
that the Education est'mates should be debited
with the cost of sfreadirg abroad those unclean
divorce reports of which the Evening News is
so fond, or the “outrage" items ia which the
soul of the J ERNii, wallows with delight.
The application of Mr. Garrett’s noble senti-
ment is - woefully narrow. The works of
Darwin and Huxley are taxed in course
of transmission to illuminate the bucolic in-
tellect ; Shakespeare and Milton do not
travel free; Byron has to pay his way by the
ouiics, while the drivelling rhymes of Mary
Jane Smith, in the Mail, are transmitted
at the cost of the nation ; and while know-
ledge is thus subjected to a pos al tariff, all New
South Wales is plundered to pay for the distribu-
tion of shameless ignorance and imposture and to
spread patent medicine advertisements, announce-
ments of land swindles, garbled reports of Parlia-
mentary ear c.hewings, and lying “ boosts” by
which the miserable agriculturist is induced to
swamp his savings in wild cat mining enterprises.
The degraded uses to which some members of the
Ministry have applied the system of free news-
paper postage should have sufficed for very sname
to smother their high falutin’ bathos about the
spread of knowledge through the medium of the
clammy sheets of a venal press. It is only a few
years since one of Parkes’s present colleagues
engineered a new journalistic venture, wfiose
contents consisted almost entirely of a gigantic
puff of the owner’s wares ; a few scraps of hoary
intelligence were added to prevent it degenerating
too openly into a price-list; sundry advertise-
ments from va - ious sources defrayed the cost of
publication ; and 100,0G0 copies of this journalistic
sham were scattered over the length and breadth
of every colony in Australia at the cost of the
long-suffering tax-payers of New South Wales.
By this scheme the ingenious, politician saved
some £4OO in postage alone bn the first issue, and
the device, by which a trade catalogue was
turned into a newspaper, has since been repeated
by various persons in a hundred different ways,
each more shameless and more elaborate than its
predecessor.
* * *
The colony of New South Wales is run solely in
the interests of Sydney. All the railway-lines
converge on the one centre, thus defrauding the
smaller ports of their share of the general trade
and gathering it in to swell the commerce of a
single overgrown city; the manufactures of the
whole nation are crushed by the policy of the
Government in order that the importers of York-
street may monopolise the sources of supply; and
the system of free newspaper postage was invented
to enable th> newspaper owners or the capital to
crush inland competition and to handicap the
journalists cf the small provincial centres cul of
existence. The large city paper, thanks to its
great array of profitable advertisements and i s
wide circulation, can be produced as cheaply as
the smaller country sheet, but the sordid press
adventurers of Sydney were not satisfied with
these advantages, and by means of all manner of
well-understood influences they succeeded in
effecting an arrangement by which the nation
was forced to bear the cost of conveying their
wares throughout the country and distributing
them at every door. The State has gunk so low
as to act as light porter to the warehouses of a
Fairfax and a Bennett, and yet it would he
difficult to define what public service these men
ever rendered that their goods should he humped
gratis through the length and breadth of the land.
Both are merely the sons of their level-headed
fathers ; both are dull, commonplace persons who
inherited enterprises which the energy of their
predecessors had creattd, and who would appear
to much greater advantage as presidents of
corner groceries than as the formnlators of a State
policy, or as arbitrators of the value of literary
wares ; yet it is to swell the profits of these men
that the people at large are taxed to the extent
of £lOO,OOO per annum. The Hera ld, out of its
fathomless dullnefs, yields a profit cf £BO,OOO
annually to its fortunate owners ; the News and
Journal return, probably, £40.000 yearly; the
Telegraph, run by a set of land-auctioneers—
the patriotism and self abnegation of whose
operations can be faintly guessed at in view of
what transpired at the Circular Quay taxpayer-
on-toast enquiry—and filled with the maunderings
of parsons who have turned their backs
on the service of God to edit fashion-
notes and to start a new policy every day and
turn dbg on it the next—aspires to some
day attain a similar level, and every year the
Post-Office acoounts show another huge deficit in
order to enlarge the profits of these sordid traders.
No research could possibly reveal what the Sydney
Press has ever done to deserve the enormous sub-
sidy it receives. It has always voted consistently
for what it thought to be the winning side. It
has allowed citizens to go to the gallows without
the semblance of a fair trial. It sounded no
note of condemnation when an insane prisoner
was interviewed in his cell by a Minister,
who sought to trap him into an admission of
his guilt, while a newspaper shorthand-writer
took notes outside the door in order that the
doomed wretch’s ravings might be used to pro-
cure his own condemnation. It has always voted
against local industry because the importers who
ruled Sydney advertised in its columns ; and the
importers have in turn supported the principle of
free postage because by that means their adver-
tisements were carried gratis all over the colony,
thus obviating the necessity of paying for their
insertion in the country Press; and successive
Freetrade Governments have supported tnth par-
ties, and have loaded the taxpayers with the cost
of transmitting trmk-loads of dismal maunder-
iogs to every town and village throughout New
. outh » ales because by thac msans tney made
things right with the importers and right with the
Press and everything was quite correct all round
*
The Sydney daily P. esi is run for backsheesh,
not for principle, and it* arrogance has risen to so
trem ndous a height through a long course of
political greasing, that it refuses to hear its thare
of taxation in any shape or form. When, some
years ago, a oertain Treasurer proposed to levy
a small duty cn printing-paper, one semi-illiterate
newspaper proprietor called at the Treasury and
thundered ou : a threat that if the tax were imposed
he would proceed to smash the Government, and.
when the morning papers were accommodated
with a special train at a charge of £40,000 a year
to the na ion, the evening papess demanded a
similar concession for their own speoial benefit,
and dropped obscure hints that the Ministt r who
blocked them in. this new raid on the Treasury
would have cause to wish he had never been born.
The Sydney Press is hampered with libel-restric-
tions which would be held as intolerable in Eng
land or America, but instead of using their in-
fluence in the true interests of the Fourth Estate,
so that it may, when charged in Ihe courts with
libel, have the same piivileges as a citizen charged
with slander, these Freetrade journalists sell
their hollow souls for dross —the Minister who
gives them special trains is written up as a
god, and the Minister who proposes to put a
small tax on (heir imported material is de-
nounced for ever afterwards as a fiend from the
nether slums of perdition. Some day, possibly,
the free-carriage system will be followed out to
its logical conclusion, at d then the gin from Post-
master-General Kobkkts's pub’ic-hou'ewillbe con-
veyed at the cost of the working classes, and Tiger
Ikglis's tea wili be placed on the N.S W. Post-
Office free-list alo-g with the w T ares retailed by the
Fairfaxes and the Gosmans and the Bennetts,
and with an equal claim to the privilege. The
latter gentlemen, it is argued, are subsidised for
the spread of knowledge, but they themselves
have no knowledge worth speaking of to spread,
and while they annex the subsidy, their subordi-
nates, who supply the small stock of unreliable
lore which escapes being crowded out by adver-
tisements about dubious infants for sale and
notices of sham “ consul' ations,” have no shar* in
the steal The arrangement is illogical, > o say the
least. The country is taxed fur the benefit of
mind, and mere matter appropriates the proceeds.
• * *
The argument that the public reap the profits of
the existing system is too transparent in its
hypocrisy to be worth considerat'on. The imposi-
tion of a postal charge would, no doubt, raise the
price of the city newspapers to country readers,
but the result would be that the latter would
immediately transfer their patronage to local
journals, and thus the great monopo’y of the
Sydney press syndicates would be serious'y is-
jured. As it is, the country papers of N.S.W. are
reduced to the lowest ebb, both intellectually and
financially, by the pressure of the great monopoly
which weighs them down. Most of them depend
entirely on the support of a single town, conse-
quently they derive no benefit whatever from the
boasted system which Parkes claims to have ori-
ginated, and, while themselves paying the expenses
of distribution, they have to com- ete against large
city journals, carried free in spe ial trains,
towards the cost cf which they have to con-
tribute in comm- n with their fellow-tax-
payers, and delivered at every door by the
State in its oapacity of errand-boy to the
monopolists of Sydney. Sydney new.-papers can
send tons weight of printed matter by rail, free,
while the country newspaper p T oprietorhasto ray
full railway freight on eveiy ounce of print ng
paper consigned to him from Sydney. Under the
weight of such tremendous handicaps, few can
afford to pay for talent or even for decent
mediocrity, and the country press, the re-
presentative of two-thirds of the rising nation,
struggles feebly along, scarcely earning bread
for the literary wanderers who endeavour to
maintain a hopeless battle against a body
of huge capitalists backed by the entire Trea-
sury of New South Wales. But the Sydney
importers demand the sacrifice, and the im-
porters rule the venal Government with a rod
of iron. Sydney lives by foreign trade, and its
interests require that the whole country should be
dependent on the outside world for its supplies in
order that this trade may not be impaired ; the
country, on the other hand, seeks to promote local
manufactures in order that its dismal, semi-
insolvent little townships may become centres of
industry, and, in the face of these conflicting
interests, the State must pay for the distribution
of the journals in which the beauties of Calico
Jimmyism are set forth, and in which the advan-
tages of beiDg unemployed are made clear to the
meanest understanding.
• • •
The Sydney D.T., in writing upon the subject
of Mr. M'fiLU one's motion, suggests that a pro-
perty-tax would appropriately supply the place of
a postal charge cn newspapers. In other words,
it proposes that the brigands who profit by this
unholy raid on the Treasury—the bloated sons of
the horse-leech who defray the expenses of their
businesses out of the earningsof the masses—should
trade upon the State as before, and that a direct
tax should be put upon every form of wealth to
makeup the resulting shortage. On the same
principle, it might be argued, that the pirate or
the bushranger, instead of being suppressed,
should be allowed to pursue his calling until he
has accumulated a fortune, and that a tax ehou'd
then be levied upon those he has plundered, so
that he should he compelled, along with them, t o
pay a fraction of his ill-gotten gains into tha
Treasury. The argument is worthy of the sodden
intellect of the paper which originated it. To
pay it a higher compliment would"be an insult.
* " *> *
The success of Mr. M‘Flhone's motion would
have involved to The Bulletin a less at least
as great as that of many of its city contempo-
raries, but this journal is fully prepared to face
aDy consequences which might arise from the
abolition of its old-established privilege. Should
The Bulletin ever feel it incumbent upon it to
loot the nation, it proposes to do it with a revolver
and a crowbar, instead cf plundering with a
moral text, a precept, a snufile - and, most
potent weapon of all, a suppression A news-
paper has no more claim to be conveye d at the
expense of the State than has a cabbage, a dress-
improver, a cask of Postmaster Roberts’s rum, or
a tin of opium, and if it cannot stand without
being shored up by a huge Government bribe, it
deserves to fall and die. Centralisation has long
been the curse of New South Wales, and the cen-
tralisation of journalism has been no inconsider-
able portion of the burden. When the artificial
suppoi tit now eDjoys is removed, the city Press
will find its own level for the first time, and if its
own merits are not sufficient for its support the
waste-paper basket of oblivion must bo its rofuge.
The [?]
Tmrnumber of capitalists and employers to-day
who in any way recognise the wrong which they
perpetrate on every form of Labour by means of
competition—robbing Labour of the worth of its
work and reducing its wages down to what wiil
barely support existence—is so small that we can-
not let one of them pass away without a few
wi rds of comment. The Ban March 6, or Cheap
E-tablishment of Paris, has achieved a reputation
more than local, more even than national. It is
the greatest drapery and millinery establishment
in Paris, perhaps in the world. The Boucicauts
—husband and wife —to whom it belonged, were
true children of the people. Madame Bouciciaut
wes originally a washerwoman. The washer-
women of Paris, as readers of “ L’As ommoir "
will remember, are a large class, and one which
suffers more ar d more from a cut-throat competi-
tion that makes the margin of profit in their
work grow ever less end less. The pitiless
rich or well to-do systematically go to the
cheapest workers, and the poor women chop
one another’s prices down till they end in giving
a’l their toil for nothing and barely cover the
expenses of material. The simple but shrewd
provincial girl saw all this, and when she met a
young Parisian workman whose head was full of
the wrongs of the people, who realised how the
robbery trick was worked by the rich, and who
saw in co-operation the.only means of resisting it,
she felt she had met the man who could satisfy
her soul. They were married, end the rest of
their lives was taken up in the effort to make
their theory of work practical and a success
Boucicadt would say (we have heard him say
that he looked forward to the time when work-
men would co-operate well enough to realise the
whole worth of their work. But this would bs
contemporary with the limitation of that equally
cut-throat competition among employers which
was inevitably driving them on in their oppression
and plunder of their employ6s That time has not
yet come, but that it will yet come is the hops and
trust of every Socialist. Meantime, so soon as he
got the chance, Bounc <ut intended to show to
what a much larger extent than anyone thought
possible, the system of recompensing employes
considerably above the current wage could be
successfully carried. He was nothing if not
practical, and he saw quite well that a willing
worker is worth two unwiUing, and that to make
a willing worker you must change a plundered
slave into a man who feels 1 hat he is getting some-
thing like the worth of the work he puts in. All
along Boccicaut made those who worked under
him feel that they were a part of the concern, and
had a right to profit in its prosperity precisely ac-
cording to the amount and quality of their
contribution to it. The leap from a small bakery
in an obscure quarter to the Magasins of the
Bon March 6 is immense, hut the bridge is all of
one material, and that material is the persistent
effort to do justice. When Eoucicaut died, he
lefc everything to the dear wife and friend who had
stood by him from the first, sharing every thought
and cars. By this time, he had realised his
original scheme. Close on three and a-half
thousand employ6s worked in his magasins. All
were bonded and lodged by him. All received
their share of the net annual profits by an elabo-
rate system of calculation. Sickness and retire-
ment were provided for, and even dismissal,
which only took place for a serious offence did
not rob the offender of what he had earned in the
past. Nevertheless, Boucicaut had amaseed a huge
private fortune, and under his wife’s administra-
tion that fortune grew and grew. She held it,
she would say, as a tenure for the people. The
people—le peuple —the masse \ as we say in
Engli-h: always that— the people l But she re-
cogeised, with her noble, stubborn practicality,
that you could only advance at a certain rate.
Generations of wrong have made the people un-
ready to take the management of their house
straight upon their hands at once. Owens’ ex-
periments of handing over his factories to the
workmen failed. Madame Eoucicaut has made
possible the time when the Bon March 6, this
immense property, shall belong solely and entirely
to those who work it. Every farthing of her
private fortune is for the people. She has edu-
cated them up to this point, and ste believes that
the day is at hand when they can show, in
complete possession of what is their own,
the same faithfulness as she has shown as the
steward of it on their behalf. Paris has seen
no such sight as her funeral since Victor Huso
lay under the Arc de Triomphe, and all France
stood bare-headed around. All honour, reverence,
love to these two peerless souls—thia man and
woman of the people who have wrought out for
their fellows such hope and trust. Kings and
queens, the greedy gluttons of a played-out bre9d (
grow mean beside them. Greasy “philanthropists,’’
who rosed as petty God-Almighties and prated
of “ charity ’’and a free gift where they Bhould
have whispered “ Justice ” and the restitution of
their robberies, what are such beside these simple,
serene figures of the French baker and the washer-
woman 1 All honour, reverence, and love to the
noblest man and woman of the day I
The United Stales of Australia.
Tj tk Bulletin has long advocated Protection,
but it has advocated Protection in the interests
of the Australian workman. In the of
every reform there are sure to be selfish reaction*
aries who join a movement for the sake of the
spoil. With such we have not, and never had,
any sympathy. The worst type of Protectionist
is the Sydney foreign-trade importer. Mate Pro-
tection the policy of New South Wales and the
foreign-trade importer becomes the manufacturing
monopolist clamouring loudly for 26 years’ protec-
tion a ainst the other colonies, in order that ho


in that period may make hia fortune and retire.
He little recks what dissension, what heart-
burning, what blocks have been thrown in the
road of Australian National Federation ; his sel-
fish purpose has been served, and, for aught he
cares, the avalanche may follow. Nothing is it
to him that border-duties develop into border
wars; that the Custom-house officer be super-
seded by the armed patrol ; that seizures of con-
traband goods be but the prelude to the border
foray and the tightly raid. He has had his 25
years of plenty ; the years of famine, of bloodshed
and internecine war are for another generation’s
reckoning. The colonist —be he Victorian,
Queenslander, South Australian, or native of New
South Wales—is not an Australian !
* * *
In 25 yeara such barriers could be raised be
tween the various colonies as might never be
beaten down; suoh wounds inflicted as Time
would be powerless to heal; such sentiments bred
as would outlinger centuries of rapine and murder
and dominate the entire fature of this Australian
continent. And why should this uncatura
division of Australia—a division effected years
since by a power 16,000 miles away—a 3 absurd as
unnatural—to which geography could never assent,
and which can only be, while it endures, an
obstacle and a menace to Progress—be perpetuated
merely to benefit a selfish and egotistic minority
at the cost of the sacrifice of all the true interests
of that nation which we are ambitious to built
up beneath the Southern Cross ? Why is this
splendid and shining future -to be imperilled for
the benefit of a little commercial ring of would
be monopolists as small in soul as it is in in-
fluence ? We admit the fact that other colonie3
have erected customs houses on their frontiers,
but is not the rapidly-growing and intense jealousy
thereby created a lesson to us to use every means
of breaking down rather than of raising up any
further barriers between peoples separated neither
by race nor by the geographical features of the
country ?
* * *
There was once a period when the whole Aus-
tralian continent was known generically as Ne w
Holland, Botany Bay, or Sydney Cove, simply be-
cause civilised man had made a settlement on the
shores of Port Jackson and elsewhere his enter-
prise had not extended. The entire eastern shore
was called New Smith Wales, and continued New
South Wtfles until, in the course of time, Moreton
Bay and Port Phillip, as well as Port Jaekson,
were breathed upon by the breath of enterprise,
and they, too, became important settlements.
Diversity of interests brought about separation of
p rovinces; Victoria and Q neensland became colonie
ii their own right. South Australia and
Western Australia will go through a similar pr j-
cess of dismemberment as soon as it is
discovered that different industries are cultivated
with the greatest success in different portions of
their territories. The present boundaries of the
various Australian colonies are purely artificial
The 142nd meridian of longitude is powerless as
gossamer to cut off silver ion and Broken Hih
from commercial alliance with Adelaide. The
Riverina is held in loyalty of a hypocritical char-
acter to Sydney by the ruse of the Freetrade
variety of Protection afforded by a cooked railway
tariff; but the Riverina is ever and anon menaoing
secession. The vast West, g ittering miles and
milei away from the Lachlau to the Darling, and
again northward to the remote outpojt of Mil
parinka, and beyond to the arid Central Desert
sometimes refreshed by the intermittent waters
of the season-lived creeks; the great pastoral
West sees not its future or its hope in the per-
manence of Sydney or the prosperity of Adelaide.
It has, time and again, threatened insurrection
and withdrawal from the cast-iron colonial scheme
forged and welded by the quid-nuncs of Downing-
street, London, and fastened and fitted by th-
Imperial officials sent out by them, on to the
shoulders of this Southern Continent. Glen Innes
and Grafton look to Brisbane as their natural
seat of Government, and Townsville persists
ia claiming her right to the title of capital of
Northern Queensland, although if the Carpentarian
country continues to be populated, and its mines
ouninue to be developed as of late. Northern
Queensland’s capital will be far distant from
Townsville, wnioh may then agitate for the dis-
tinction of the chief city of oencral Queensland,
and so on Jhe settlers and pioneers of the
Northern Territory are fiudin z oat speedily enough
that their interests are set aside by the Chinese-
loving syndicates who rule from Adelaide, and
the gold district of Kimberley can expect in the
futu e little sympathy from a remote southern
city like Perth. Everywhere ia there dismember-
ment, and this spirit of di integration is the
motive force and life-blood of Australian federa-
tion. Pro serve the “ colonies ’ and the national
spirit must die ! Facilitate the destruction of the
1 ‘ colonial" spirit with the colonial mapped territory
and the reconstruction of the colonies into small
states, and the idea of an United Australia will
have become a reality.
* * •
The Imperialists desire nothing better than the
maintenance of the present irrational divisions—
it insures a permanence of Imp rial rule. The
Freetraders know this and point out triumphantly
that Protection against each other amongst the
colonies is tantamount to a declaration of war.
But Imperialistic freetraders and Imperialistic
Protectionists can both of them be checkmated by
apolicy cf Frote otion for austral ia against the world
with a policy of Freetrade between the colonies.
England’s greatest deb ire for a “closer union”
spriugs from a commercial reason. England
wants a market for her manufactured goods. Let
the colonies close their ports, and England is abso-
lutely battled, ana intercolonial Freetrade, by de-
stroying int rcclonial jealousy, would destroy her
last remaining hope of a vast coerced empire in
the south. then would Australia be in truth a
nation. Suppose each colony g -anted to its con-
sti uent electorates a full measure of local self-
government, the present absurd boundaries, sanc-
tioned not by U ographyand unblessed by Nature,
would melt aw y into a diaphanous adumbration
of s m thing more impalpable than smoke ; men
would cease io bo Victorians, Queenslanders,
South ustralians, and naives of ew South
Wales and, like the inhabitants of America, they
would take the great and comprehensive title of
their country, they would boast of being Austra-
lians ; Sir John Robertson, and like malcontent
mischief-contrivers, would bo gathered to
the sarcophagi of their fathers, and the
men, whom they, by fomenting the petty
jealousies and little envies which disgrace the
name of man, seek to dtvlds, would rally by
a common impulse, to a common battle-cry,
around a common standard; the sentiment of
nationality would then be concreted in practice
and in action, and the United States cf Australia
would become fj, name on the muster-roll of
nations.
• * *
The American civil war was one of the finest
sights presented to the gaze of humanity in the
panorama of heroic endeavour. Would such a
grand victory for the right have been
possible had the principle of Protection been
applied by state against state ? Hardly!
Freetrade amongst 60,000,000 of people and
Protection against the world has been the
policy wnich has ensured to tie United States a
continuance of unique and, indeed, almost un-
exampled prosperity in the commercial bistory of
the world. Instead of urging retaliatory mea-
sures of Protection, let us endeavour to persuade
the various colonies to join us against the out-
side world on a basis of reciprocity. For the
measure of Protection proposed affects only
■Sydney. If it is good to encourage the Sydney
monopolist in his demand for Protection against
the Melbourne monopolist, why should we be
deaf to the cry of Riverina, to the prayers of the
West, to the discontent of the Hunter and the
muttered threats of New England? This ques-
tion is an Australian question. It is the question
of Nationalism versus Parochialism, and with the
issue the future of Australian nationality is
involved.
* • *
When we are ripe far union ; when the dif-
ferent colonial centres of local self-government
become the nuclei of many little states, it must
not be imagined by the inhabitants of New
South Wales that they will take the lead in ruling
and guiding the confederation, for then there will
be no New South Wales. Pakkes, who now
when he catches sight of the reflection of
his bulky form in a plate glass window, puts up a
mental apostrophe to the future President of the
United States of Australia, makes a prophetic
blunder. He sees therein the leflection of only
the possible future Governor of the State of Cum-
berland —if he lives long enough—in no way more
important than Gov. Melville of the adjoining
State of N ji thamberland;carrying with him no more
political weight than the Governor of Monaro, or
the Governor of Rosebery or Palmerston in the
distant North, of Gawler or Hindmarsh, of
Maranoa or North Kennedy, of Stirling or
Kimberley, of I/alhoufle or Talbot. Sydney will
then be only a capital of a stato, like Newcastle,
or Melbourne, or Brisbane, or Perth, or Adelaide,
or Wilcannia. Local State-Government leaves
little for a central he I Government to do beside s
roll departmental logs and grind political axes’.
Washington’s machinery of administration, like
an empty stomach, is forced to prey upon itself,
and j jbs have to be manufactured for its states-
men to waste tneir energies up jn. Therefrom a
lesson might be learnt by the unborn States of
United Australia. We want no cxpitol! Each state
in turn might be selected as the seat of central
government. Thus ihere would be no assumption
of permanent dominance and jealousy wouldbeim-
possible. There would be ne oded n y standing asm/,
no glare, no glitter, no State-house, no psuedo-
national frippery, no imperial navies proudly
wafted to victory—or Sheol —under the direction
of a foreign admiral. Every citizen might be a
soldier. It would be no loss to the nation if every
man who boasted its name was able to protect it
—perhaps from some future invasion of German
descended New Guineans. But there need be
none of the bespangled paraphernalia of sham
regality—no jubilees, no naval subsidies, no vice-
regal cohorts of tinselled lancers —barbers in mufti
—no unveiling of queen’s statues, no banquets to
peripatetic noblemen; no fireworks, no faucy-
tlnted flame ; no cultivation of false sentiments ;
no grovel; no shams 1
* * *
The Australian nation is coming! Swifter,
perhaps, than the Machiavellians of Downing-
street imagine. The Democratic party with each
day grows stronger. The Australian nation is
approaching more rapidly every year —like the
avalmcne, its speed increases during the pregrest
of descent. With its advent the past fates away
into oblivion. The errors and follies, the crimes,
the blood-hued butcheries of the convict-days ;
the rule of the New South Wales Ccrp3 and of
their descendants, with all the inhuman traditions
of lash and gallows, pale in the rosy hue of the
approaching dawn of Australian national indepsn
dence. But before the sun rises the work of the
night must b 3 accomplished. We m cst destroy in
order to re-create ; break down to re-construct;
divide to rule. New South Wales will lose her
hated memories with her dis asteful name
when she shall merge through the media
of her states into the coveted status of an integral
part of an indurated whole —Australia will not
then represent je*lou3 provinces with diverse in-
terests, but a vast confederacy of united cantons
bound together by the broad band of a national
sentiment. “ Australia for the Australians ” will
nob then be used to gather a crowd round the
feet of a demagogue, but it will be the motto of
a c ontlnent; it will typify a sentiment of pro-
gress which carries Protection against the world
in its van, and Land Nationalisation in its wake ;
it will summarise and embody a faith intense as
that embodied in the idea of Holy Russia ; it will
be the spring of national action, and men will dare
danger and couit death for the principle it an-
nounces, and women wfll withhold their snoile
ftom these who may betray it; to-day it may be
nothing more than a catch phrase, but the day
will oome when the ground shall tremble with the
trampling of men who gather at its bidding to
hurl into the sea the plague inflicted upon ns by
the Imperial connection and our own disunited-
ness, and our country will be freed of the curse of
the leper by those from whose lips comes only a
sentence —“Australia for the Australians.’’
PLAIN ENGLISH,
The New Alliance-Wool and Shoddy.
“Freetrade” in New South Wales being in a
desperate fix is forced to resort to desperate ex-
pedients. As Freetrade and Parkes cannot hope
much longer to stem the risii g tide of wrath, a
new and powerful ally has been let in to the con-
spiracy against the country. The new-comer is
that confusion-creator of local politics, the always-
dissatisfied squatter. The i rice of his support is
to bo the lee-simple of his holding, the gifc being
effected by a gradual process described by tbe
specious title of *' compensation for improve-
ments ” t here was in the condition of the country
a strong reason for the consummation of this con-
spiracy. The Freetrade policy, whatever may be
its redeeming points, has a shocking tendency to
unemployment of the working classes. The
more “ commercial freedom ” prevails the more
[do the armies of the unemployed increase. And
in their misery these idle ones rail at the policy
which took away their means of maintaining in-
dependence, and by their complaints cause much
indignation to centre upon Moses Puls ford and
Aaron Pariles, who are leading them around the
tuckerless Freetrade wilderness. To satisfy or
silence the moanings of these miserable ones
became a necessity ; some attempt had to
be made to provide work for ths multitude,
and something likewise had to be done to prop
up the staggering Parkesian party. To catch the
squatter vote nothing more was required than the
promise of compensation for improvements, and
this concession will, it is averred by the pas
toralists, create anew and enormous demand for
labour, a double object will thus be achieved by
the grant of this so-called “ tenant-right’’—the
wool-kings will prop up the rule of the shoddy-
kings, and the unemployed will be placated by
dam-sinking and fencing-work. The Bulletin
has long since demonstrated the fact that “ tenant
right ” for the squatters is only a new method of
nublic robbery ; the pastoral tenants have made
their bargain—presumably an equitable one—for
the leasing of the lands they cccapy. It is now
proposed to review this contraot and grant a new
advantage to the lessee, and that an advantage
which would give a freehold of the lands leased.
That is one side of the iniquity of this unholy
alii an c, 3. With regard to the question of increased
employment for labour at present superfluous,
there are many points to be considered. It can
scarcely be urged, for instance, that this new area
of employment would he productive of wealth to
the community. For, although many new dams
would be dug, and many new fences erected,
these would go to increase the pastoraiists’ power
to blackmail the Treasury—to obtain the freehold
of the land much more than to increase its pro-
ductiveness.
Two Pictures.
England is the land of contrasts. Vast wealth
shoulders away unutterable poverty. The 37
millions are run in the interests of 37 thousands.
Once it was all for birth—the “ upper ten thou-
sand.” The eldest sons were millionaires, and the
y ounger sons lived on the sinecures of the “pro-
fessions,” the Army, the Navy, the Bar, the
Church. That has been modified somewhat, and
the greatest tyranny to-day is not that of Birth
but of Wealth. Pitiless competition has reduced
wages to the life-line, and now everything is con-
ducted io the interest of the Capitalists as it oaco
was of the Aristocrats. The robbers and the
robbed, the possessors and the dispossessed, the
swindlers and the swindled —behold them cheek-
by-j owl!
The marriage of Mist Ger-
trude Romilly, youngest
daughterof Lady Elizabeth
Romilcy, to Mr. Harrt
Stewart (Gordon High-
landers), which was cele-
brated at St. Gabriels
-Church, Warwick Square,
was a very gay affair. The
Princess Christian was
present, and there was a very
select company of friends and
relations, including the Duke
and Duchess of Bedford,
the Earis of Minto and
Airlie, the Countesses Rus-
sell and Spencer, Lord
and Lady Roicilly, and
Lady Charlotte Portal.
The hride wore a diets of
ivory white satin, trimmed
with fine old Brussels lace,
and veil to match fastened
by a diamond crescent, the
gift of the bridegroom The
six brides naids were prettily
dressed in pale yellow satin,
trimmed with white lace, and
wore Liberty hats to match,
and bronze shoes and stock-
ings embroidered in gold.
Each carried a basket of
bronzs and gold cbryeanths-
mums, tied with Gordon tar-
tan ribbons, and among their
ornaments were diamoad
safety-pin brooches, the gift
of the bridegroom.
A horrible d!s:ov iry ia re-
porbsd from Lambeth. Police-
constable John Edwards,
81 L dlvisi >n, was called to a
house in Glasshouse-street
when he fouud the body of a
woman lying on the floor ia
a small bac* room, dead, bat
not cold. He at once went
for Dr. George Frederick
Farr, the divisional surgeon
of the L division of polio- 1 ,
who states that in all his ex-
perience he never before wis
nessed such a horrible sight
as this room presented wit a
two human beings in it. The
dead woman was lying up n
the floor, with a few flltfcy
rags clinging to her t ereon,
but so dirty and emaciated
that it would be impassible
to guess her age. On pro-
ceeding t } examine the body,
which he found still warm,
he noticed something moving
close by the dead woman s
side under a piece cf sacking,
on removing which a still
more horrible sight presented
itself—a man, who was stated
to fie the husband of the
dead woman, being found,
alive in the same filthy an i
emaciated state, too ex
hausted to rep’y to any quo)
tions put to htm. The doc
tor, considering his case
critical, ordered bis imme-
diate removal to the parish
infirmary, where he was
taker).
Here are two pictures taken at random from the
assortment of thoir fellows. Such things occui
every week in London, nay, every day. They
arouse no comment—they are coo familiar. The
appalling iniquity, whereby the ease and luxury
of the few is drawn from the toil and degradation
of the many, is not apparent. The fact is accepted
as the fact of the weather or any natural pheno-
menon. But this is not to he so for ever. The
classes slumber, but the masses slowly awake, anc
then woe to these sosial assassins and thieves !
In that hour to be,
The hour of oar desire,
Wh rt shall our slayers be ?
As the stubbie to the fire!
+
Protection to the Lawyers.
Recently the New South Wales Parliamenc
passed a Banaruptcy Act wherein was inserted a
provision which, being a long-sought-for innova-
tion, was hailed with satisfaction by a large num-
ber of people. Hitherto the right of audience in
all Australian courts of law has been restricted to
lawyers who have al ways been extra watchful to
prevent any encroachment on their preserves.
Several attempts have been m ude in various Par
liaments to introduce a principle which has worked
so well in America and other places—that of
allowing non-professional agents to appear in
cases in which teohnioalitlss were not involved.
When the Bankruptcy Act was before the New
South Wales Assembly the party of reform seized
the opportunity, and, despite the fierce opposition
of the legal members, an amendment was agreed
to providing that certain proceedings might
be conducted by a “ creditor’s representative
authorised in writing,” The conservative mem-
bersof fheT'pper Hou e, true to the time honoured
custom of that body, did not care about conceding
the whole of this desirable reform at onoe, a,sd
they struck out the word “ repreTentative" and
inserted the words “manager, accoun ant or
cle'k.’’ Tne Assembly would not give way on the
poini, and in,the message sent fo toe Council
drafted and propo .ed by Attorney-Genial TVtsc
—it was stai ed that the Council's amendment was
object od to be au3e “ it was thought to limit un-
necessarily the privilege of a creditor in appearing
by another at the examination of a bankrupt.
Nothing could he clearer, therefore, than that
Parliament meant 'be word “representative ’t
have a gane al application hut bare aga n Mr.
R ngnose Wise has shown tuat ha is a lawyer first
and a patriot afterwaids, if at all. He is th
editor of a book on the new N. S.W. B nkruptcy
Act, in whi h. dealing with this particular pro
vision, he says - -
The w ord 1 representative ” has bean held in England t
apply tj a solicitor, who mu t, therefore, if required pr
duce an an hor.ty from rile cr ditor ; cur they do not ay.,l
to a banister. It is questionable wh ther the term inclidi
aay agent or clerk of the creditor, since they cannot be trul
saidto' represent’ the creditor. To extend the term (re
presentative) to include agents, would be practically to ove<-
ride the acts which limit the right of audience in the
Supreme Court to officers of the Court over whom the Court
o an exercise control.
This is legal quibbliog quite worthy of the ex-
Attorney-General. This interpretation may be
sound law, but nevertheless it is uncommonly bad
common-sense. Giving Mr. Wise credit for the
expression of an honest opinion as a lawyer, he
staiuls convicted ,as a politician of having deli-
berately misled Parliament. One of the mo3t im-
portant duties of an Attorney-General is to watch
the progress of legislative measures in order
to see that Parliament gives correct legal
expression to its views. According to Mr
Wise, Parliament has not done so in this
instance, and if that be the case he is solely
responsible for the blunder. The question will
hav« to be decided by the Supreme Court, and it
is to be hoped hat the Judges w ill take a rational
view of it and discard the greedy, grasping, sel-
fish, ultra-protective motive which seems 10 have
prompted the extraordinary opinion given lev Mr
Wise.
+
The Chinaman is hot to Go.
The Chinaman is not to go after all. The Aus-
tralian fore gn-trader cannot spare his yellow ally,
acc } ® ven v '^ ien the force of the public wrath com-
pelled the Free trade par „y to make a pretence of
hostility to the ,j ain dice-coloured aposilo of un-
limit'd competition, The Bulletin prophesied
th*t every presautioa wou.d be taken to let the
bland Asiatic down easily. The result shows that
he is to be let down even more easily than was
anticipated. e Northern Territory of Australia
is now a huge Mongolian colony, in whica the
white Australian is outnumbered in the ratio of
ten to one by a s ant-eyed race of lepers, whose
Joss has taken deep root in the soil, and where
the white man’s alleged God is be wledou.jb> deities
stuffed with hay. It is not worth wnile being a
European in the Territory; the whole trade of
that fertile region is in ths hands of the pig-tailed
raco; the mineral fio.d.i are rushed with them;
the whole land is yellow with the procession of
aliens who are swarming to take possession of
the ruby-mine 3 ; tvyo or three times a momh a
huge steamer comes in from China, and shoots
down a few hundred more slaves on the wharves;
even the transcontinental railway works are
c nrud on solely by low-priced heathens, as
provided by Government contract, and the
white trash ’ are told to go and starve; and
the country is full of Chiaese epidemics and Chinese
horrors. Foit Darwin has one of the finest
climates in Australia, and it gives access to the
richest lauds and the richest mineral-fields on the
Continent; its harbour, too, is one of the best in
the South Pacific, but the land is held almoso en-
tirely by syndicates of speculators who make then-
profit out of the Asiatic companies which export
their slaves by thousands to the Territory, and
t.eice pass them over the borders into the adja-
cent colonies, and the Mongols, gaining confidence
by their numbers, treat the “ white devil j ” with
derision, and systematically close every avenue of
industry against them. And, in the face of these
stupendous evils, the Government of Adelaide has
reluctantly resolved to oppose the invasion of ihe
lepers by the imposition of a poll-t.x of £lO ptr
head ! The amount, ic is well-known, wi 1 not be
paid by one heathen out of every five ; the rest
will enter as free “ Bhtish ” citizens from Hong-
kong, or will present the receipts obligingly for-
warded by their brethren in Australia, and will
then lend bacx the papers to serve for the im-
portation of a fresh cargo of- human scum ; and,
even supposing the duty to he collected in every
case, it represents nothing more than the differ-
ence in the wages of ihe Mongol and the Austra-
lian for a space of rather less than two months.
Even thu lady who opposed her broom to
the rising tide of the Atlantic cannot compare
for fathomless imbecility to the politicians who
thus propose to stay a cataract with a straw.
The pretence is too hollow to deceive even the
ignorant Ah Sue himself, and the object of the
measure is simply to a.day the storm of public in-
dignation without; inflicting the slightest material
injury on the horde of unprincipled speculated s
who are budding up fortunes by the importation
of Chinese slave labour into the Territory. The
Adelaide Government has shown itself a traitor
to the interests of Australia by this act of miser-
able hypocrisy or dismal folly, and unless the
lepers who swarm and multiply at Port Darwin
are ultimately to overrun the whole Continent it
will be necessary for the united nation to briag
suefi pressure to bear as will shut the back-doir
of Australia against the race for e /er,
, ■»
The Townsvil'.e iQ.) Telegraph, a rampant
organ of Imperialism, pounds out a few observa-
tions :
Certain Southern papers, some conducted, by avowed
enemies of the Empire, which may be said to exist by ecur-
rili y, and pauderiog to v,;hit is most base and unworthy in
hum .n nature, delight to represent England as a very leech,
draining the life-blood of her colonies, and even stoop to dis-
gusting cartoons attacking the person of the Sovirngu.
Politicians, sseking somewhat unworthily to catch a porion
of th 9 public ear, sometimes endeavour to tickle the imagina-
tion of th-ir hearers by pictures of the future independence
of Australia Other papers have taken to discuss the matter
from a calm and philuiophic standpoint, and although we do
not think it is set a burning question in the pumic mind, wj
agree with them that it is one to be faced Hooner or later.
We go so far as to believe that some day Auatrlia will be
dividedinto two parties, namely Separatists and Unionist!.
There is a melancholy backing-down in these re-
marks. A paper devoted to English interests ad-
mits that the time is coming when Kepublicans
and Imperialists will be so evenly balanced in aus-
cralia'that other parfiis will be obliterated, an I
politics will become a duel between the two.
Hooray I This means that the Australian Party
is so steadily rising and the Imperialist one so
steadily sinking that they will one day find them-
selves on a level. If the movement stopi there
the imperial cmnection may possibly be main-
tained a little while longer, but such a stoppage is
impossible. The party which has risen so far will
continue to rise, and the singling party' to sink,
and even the organs of Monarchy can ses the
inevitable result. Probably the only man who
fails to get even a glimmering of the truth is
Primate Alfred Barry, of whom the S.M.
Herald writes : -
In his sermon at the cathedral yesterday afternoon, the
Primate said that in some form or other we all feel that the
unity of the E upire muss be maintained if our ra -e is to
hold its own in taesj cays of gigantic nationalities, and
play tne great part which Hon in ms providence is obviously
preparing for us,
the Primate here gives a very straight hint as to
what he would do if he were the Uord, and sug-
gests mildly to the Deity that, if He wants
fce mate Australia great, He can only do it
by fixing her firmly to England, At the same
time, it is just possib e that Providence Enows
what it is about better thafi Alfred Barrv, and,
anyway, there is a chance that it may decline to be*
shoved by any mortal and may gote work its own
way And. j ast supposieg that Providence take!
no notice of the Bishop s hint, the a wnat the
deuce is h> g )ing to do about it ? The Bi hop, by
the way, purp i es acting up to his cr ed, aid
whether Australiais annexed to Eagiand or not
he proposes to annex himself to that country
shortly. He has »ept his eye on Providence in
tdiB part of the world for a good while, and now
he gives the Higher Power a hint how to manage
things in his absence, and solemnly packing up
his reverend carpet-bag he prepares to “ get.”


HISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
Anyone -with the slightest experience in
the Bitting of evidence or the examination of his-
torical records will see at a glance the value of
the claims put forward by John Macarthur and
his party. The unparalleled impudence of the
attempt whica has been made to exalt them to
the pedestals of patriots would only be possible
in a country where the term itself is one of ridi-
cule and derision. The Australian patriot has
the great advantage over those of other lands in
that he has known how to make the trade pay.
Patriotism has been defined elsewhere as the last
refuge of the scoundrel; in Australia it has
alwaysbeen the first trickcf the huckster—political
or otnerwise. The term has such unsavoury as-
sociations that it stinks in the nostrils of Austra-
lians.
* * *
It requires courage to deal vigorously
with these first chapters of our history, and par-
ticularly with the character of such a man as
this John Matarthur. Long before his death his
wealth— acquired as we know —gave him a com-
manding influence in the growing colony, as we
shall see as we go on. His influence was used, up
to the last, against the people of this country, end
some of tne worst and most despicable passages
in that part of our story that is to follow wi 1 be
found connected with his name, as were those
that have been already told. That such a man
and his accomplices should have continued to oc-
cupy their false position so long is a serious
charge against writers of Australian history, as
well as the popular spirit cf enquiry which has
allowed these drivellers to mislead it. Miserable
attempts have been made in the face of facts to
gloz j over and conceal Macarthur’s delinquencies
because he introduced the practice of wool-grow-
ing ; in view of which, says one of his apologists,
“ the faults of the man have bsen almost forgot-
ten in the patriotism of the citizen.’’ 'Jhe
“ patriotism of the citizen ” consisted in his laying
the foundations of his own private fortune. Aus-
tralia has had many patriots like that!
* • *
“ The genius of New South Wales,”
Bonwick writes, “ as if in imitation cf the pitying
tear of the recording angel, has blurred the page
that told of John Macarthur s errors, while light-
ing up by her smiles the letters which blazoned
forth his glorious deeds in the path of peaceful pro-
gress." This hopeless cant is a fair sample of
the saponaceous idiocy on which the public senti-
ment of the Australian people has been hitherto fed.
Such is the dismaldrivelthatmarks ourrecordfrom
the beginning, and stamps it with its own fatuous
character, which it will continue to retain until
the Australian voter and taxpayer is able to think
for himself. It is for this reason that the writer
who would set the facts of our history in their
proper place and order, must cull them laboriously
from manifold sources, taking facts alone and
leaving behind him the wllderniss of dreary plati-
tude and veneered venality in which they have
been hitherto embedded and concealed.
The facts of the Bligh case, candidly told,
are a sufficient condemnation of the officers. They
sold goods, having dishonestly obtained by fraud
and force the command of the market, at a
usurious profit running up to 1500 per cent. ; they
robbed the poorer settler of the produce o’his labour
for a t ithe of its value, and they demoralised the
settlement with licentiousness and rum. Bligh,
as we have Eeen, had express instructions to stop
some tf these inquities, and his honest efforts in
that direction aroused the trading officers’ enmhy.
They put in force against him the same vile tactics
—more appropriate to a gang of thieves and pick-
pockets, which they were, than to British offioers
and gentlemen, which they certainly were not—
that had driven Phillip, Hunter, and King out of
the colony, and for many years ruined its chance
of progress. When they found that Bligh was a
stronger man than any of hia predecessors, and
shrewd enough to recognise the moving spirit
of all their rascality and put him in gaol, then the
officers and their worthy followers deposed the
Governor “in the public interest.” The facts of
the deposition itself are damnatory. Johnstone
was too ill to write to the Governor, but not so
ill as to be unable to write to the gaoler at
Sydney, ordering him to deliver Macarthur at his
peril—thus compelling the psrfonnauce of an
illegal action under a direct threat, which the
gaoler knew only too well how to appreciate.
Johnstone was too ill to attend BHgh’s summons,
but not too ill to come Into town the same after-
noon and depose him. He charged Bligh with
orimes that rendered him unfit to exerc’sa the
supreme authority another moment in the colony ;
but he forebore to say what these crimes were.
From first to last, as was clearly proven at the
court-martial later on, this man was a mere in-
strument in the hands of Macarthur, who in-
stigated Johnstone to hia squalid rebellion for his
own miserable purposes. He found ha had gone
too far with Bligh, and, being afraid to take his
trial, he moved his weak-minded superior officer
to rebel against the Governor so that he himself
might get out of trouble and out of gaol.
The action of Colonel Paterson, who cer-
tainly knew the state of affairs in the colony well,
and understood the charac er of his officers and
men, has a significance of its own. Teat officer
refused, point) blank, to have any act or part in
the “ rebellion,” when he heard of what had been
done. Yet it is impossible to believe that he
would have held aloof had the circumstances
been, as M>carthur and Johnstone described
them, such as to warrant recourse to the extreme
ms as area taken by the Corps. The fantastic
tricks played before high heaven by the persons
who officiated as ordinary, chaplain, ard the
solemniser of marriages would, perhaps, make
the angels weep were they not better employed.
All authorities agree (hat the debauchery and
licentiousness of the officers knew no bounds.
Many of them, we are told, kept regular harems
of convict womeD, and very few indeed held aloof
from these shameless exoesses, which, like every-
thing else connected with these men, were squalid
and revolting, without one redeeming point or
feature of extenuation. It is but fair to add that
Macarthur was one of those of whom least has
been charged in this particular connection.
# * *
The prose cation of Gore and Crossley was
a piece of revengeful vindictiveness for which
tiher can bo no pal’iat ion. Because Crossley as-
sisted to craw up the indictment) against Mao
aribur, ai d Gore took him from the hands of the
soldiers who had forcibly rescued him, both were
sent to the coal mines of Newcastle by the malice
of the canting ordinary, who had the audacity to
insert special prayers in the Church Service for
the instiument of his mean revenges. The case
of Suttor was still worse. He was an Industrious
settler at Baulkham Hills, and no sympathiser
with the alms and schemes of the offioers, He
and several others addreesad a memorial to the
Home Government disclaiming any part in their
action, and for' this he was deprived of his as-
signed servants and locked up for six months in a
condemned cell. Every extreme of malioe seems
to have been put forward by the officers while
their power lasted to intimidate those who were
disaffected to their illegal rule, and to revenge
themselves on all who had sought to strengthen
the hands of Bligh in his short-lived but well-
meant efforts to remedy eome of the miseries of
the unhappy settlement.
* * *
Bligh ramained under strict surveillance
until March, 1809, when he was allowed to take
command of H.M.S. Porpoise on condition that he
returned to England at once. He accepted the
condition, but he appears to have thought little
of a promise obtained under such circumstances,
and by such people, for he sailed to Van Diemen’s
Land. There is a story that when Blish felt the
timbers cf his ship onoe more nnder his feet, he
threw off all disguise and ordered Lieutenant
King to open fire and “batter down the town of
Sydney.” as well as to turn his gunß against the
Admiral Gambler, then lying in the harbour, in
which Macarthur and Johnstone had taken pas-
sage for England to forestall him in the enquiry
they anticipated. At Van Diemen’s Land Bligh
was well received at first, until letters cance from
Sydney when an attempt was made to arrest him.
He escaped, and lay off the coast till the end of
the year, when Macquarie arrived to succeed him
as Governor on 28th December. Macquarie had
orders to reinstate Bligh for 24 hours had he been
present in Sydney on his arrival; when he did
come soon after he was received with the honours
due to a Commodore. By the new Governor
Bligh received despatches from LoTd Caetlereagh
informing him that “ the mutinous outrage com-
mitted upon him bad caused the strongest sensa-
tion and that His Majesty had ordered Major
Johnstone to he sent home in strict arrest, to be
brought to trial for his conduct.” He was em-
powered to bring home with him any witnesses
whose services he should require “to substantiate
the charge of that officer’s mutinous proof editigs."
Bligh arrived In Sydney in January, 1810, and
left on the following May. By Ootober, when he
arrived in England, there had been a change of
Ministry, and in the meantime his enemies had
been beforehand with him in blackening his
character and prejudicing his oase in the public
estimation. It was not until May, 1811, that the
Court-Martial was held, by which time the matter
had beoome an old-world story, and the new
Ministry had lost any small interest its members
had ever taken in such a far-away matter,
William Roy Fund.
We have received the following farther subscrip-
tions to the Roy Fund, Collected In Greymouth
by W. A. Shain :
Robert Covil, 5?. W. A. Shain, 5a.; A Friend (.T, M‘M ),
5a.; A Friend (W. R), 10a ; J A Wilson. sa. ;F. C. Dupre,
5s ; Richard Bell, 2s. 61 ; Old Man, 2s. 6d.; Geo. H. Ache-
son, 5a ; Jacob Harris, 2<. 6d.; Thomas Hanwell Williams,
55.; J Gow, 3a.; J. Williamson, 2s. 6d ; P. Swingland,
2s 6d.; C. Morice, 10s.; W. H. Jones, 2s 6d.; F. B Waters,
2a.; Stranger, 2a. 6d.; Patrick Burke. 2a 6d.; Friend, la. 6d.;
T. Brown, 2a. 6d ; R M'Kenzie, 2a. 61.; Friend (J. N.),
2s 6d.; 0. James, 2j. 6d.; Captain Connor, 2s. 6d. Total,
£4 l4s. •
An N.Z. J.P. is named Gapes. We
expect he does.
A Balmain (Sydney) man, J. Richardson,
says he has invented a steamer which is sea proof
against all weathers, and can steam from 50 to 60
knots an hour !
J. F- Drake, the barrister, who lost
Ennoggera (Q.) as-a proteotionlst last year, is going
for it again. Dickson, the ex-Treasurer, will not
oppose him this time, as the electorate has been
made bigger and Drake's return is pretty well
certain.
A municipal Item. There are at the pre-
sent time two dead cats and a decomposed dog
lying in a right of-way in Botham (Yio.) named
(in bitter derision, of course) Street, after a
distinguished resident. This is the very gall of
revenge.
A Wellington, N.Z., beak said to a small
boy witness, “ Do you know, my little man, where
you will go to If you don’t Bpeak the truth! ”
“To gaol, sir ! ” Case adjourned so that the boy
could be taught the full advantages of being an
acoompllßhed and painstaking liar.
BRIEF MENTION.
Knows the ropes—Nosey Bob.
Parkes went round the world once. After
that he started to go through ib.
Man is 90 per cent, water, and yet the
Good Templars are not satisfied.
When a retired politician belongs to the
past it is a great pity to dig him out to fight the
Age.
“ Oat of Work” and “ Bough on Bata ”
are synonymous terms just now in Foreign-trade
N.S.W.
Says Sydney -D.T. : “ The relations be-
tween the officials in the Mines Department are
said to be very cordial." That’s rum.
Journalism is pretty stiff in Wellington,
N.Z., as instance : “ Henry Raven, a member of
the Te Aro Rifle Volunteer corpse.”
A Oooktown man has set a hen on alli-
gators’ egg 3 for the express purpose of analysing
her expression when the eggs break,
Sydney has a street called Sarah Ann-
street. They ought to change it to M.L,C.-street.
One old woman’s name is as good as another’s.
The police of Melbourne are expected to
remove orange and banana-peel from the foot-
paths of the City. Why not ? They are peelers.
A calf has been born in Mooroopna with
three eyes, two mouths, and two tongues. Two
mouths ! two tongues ! A heaven-ordained M.P. !
The idea of using axle-grease on bread
seems utterly repulsive to come people until they
have tasted the fresh oountry butter in Sydney
hash-foundries.
The S.M. Herald says “ Government
started in Heaven.” This may be true, but, judg-
ing by the N.S.W. Government, it is likely to
wind up in h 1.
Somebody stole a tub of paste from a Mel-
bourne paper-bag warehouse last week. The
pilice have a glue, bub we have not heard which
editor they suspeot.
Unique advb. from a N.S.W. country
paper
WANTED, a family of Four Milkers, including two
active boys. Apply, Gazette Office.
A recent issue of Melbourne Herald con-
tains a long article headed, “Gut with the
Licensed Victuallers.” A chronicle of the everyday
experiences of some reporter, we reckon.
“Hell- what It is and where,” was the
title of a Melbourne parson's recently-advertised
sermon. Some men are so confoundedly impatient
—they can’t be reasonable and bide their time.
“ Man, young, wants light employment
where no great physical exertion is required.”
What a foolish young man this is ! He wants to
be a policeman, but he is ashamed to say so right
out.
The announcement that steps will be
taken to restrict the sale of “Bough on Rats”
will give comfort and joy to the deceased London
alderman who was “ determined to put down
suicide.”
An advt. from the Even Nooze ;
“Wanted a magpie; must be a good talker.”
We would draw the advertiser’s attention to the
facb that Jawbone is on h’s way back from
Adelaide.
These words are being painted in large
letters on cards, which are to be hung on the
walls of the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly:—
“ Once every ten minutes the curse of drink ends
a human life,”
Th 6 Age is firing sections of a Spiritualistic
story at its subscribers every week. Here is a
sample from a late disoharg a: —“ I know you, Sir
Peroival; come with me. Your slater is blind.
She wßnts to see you,”
“ After our religious duties,’' says a West
Melbourne olergyman, “our next thoughts should
be of that graoious lady who has ruled the great
British Umpire during these happy years.” Queen-
liuess is next to Godliness.
Somebody stole a wheel-barrow from the
office-yard of the Launceston (Vlo.) Examiner
the other night, and ib has sinoe been advertised
for in a most pathetie strain. It is awfully hard
work oarrying the reporters home.
ORRESPONDENCE
Walter Westman : Can there be any real sym-
pathy with Trades Unionism on the part of a newspaper-
proprietor who, when he and his compositors disagreed
covertly threatened to replace them with cheap female
labour from New Zealand?......S.N. : Good Handed
to artist Dot, and L.O'C.: Held over for a time.
. .E L : We do not propose attacking him, though if legiti-
mate opportunity arose, it would be an honour to denounce
so inhuman a monster... .W.L.S :No man can be a compe-
tent judge in his own cause. To write an ostensibly disin-
terested report for the public on a mine in which you your
self have an interest is a gross act..„T. Walker: The reason
why prisoners are daily paraded through the streets of
Sjdney is that Sydney is still ruled by the descendants of the
New South Wales Corps.... Walter Mason: The Melbourne
D.T. s contention that Gaunson opposed Windeyer because
the latter did his duty is a cold-blooded 1ie...,S 3.: The
contest for Central Cumberland will only partake of the
nature of an aldermanic fight .. .S. Carden: The story about
Sydney Reform Club taking measures to expel Mr. Dibbs in
consequence of hia row with ' brand-of-shame' Garrett was
a gratuitous fib originally got up by the Freetrade press for the
purpose of influencing the result of the Newtown election....
Meno :To hand. Will publish shortly....W. Wood : Your
arguments in favour of the retention of John Chinaman—
that if he left us we should got scurvy, as there would be no
one to grow vegetables—:s absurd. Even if it were a good
contention, we might as well di j of scurvy now as die of
leproey ultimately. ...Rienzi: Your article was altogether too
feivid.. ..Walter Wood : It is like Parkes’ cheek to pose as a
Ohinkie prohibitionist. But the public doesn’t forget tbat
the old squirmer ‘ slipped up ’ his Empire compositors, and
then fought them out with a crew of rancid devils from India.
... .Democrat (Townsville): Clipping received. Is the local
editor often taken like that?....J.F.F. (Vic.): A common-
place localism... .Old Granville: Thanks. ..A.W.L.: We
can say what we like, in spite cf all the Freetraders and all
the manufacturers. Mr. Forsyth doesn’t subsidise us to run
bis rope-works....W. S. Anson: We wrote Deity, not
’ Diety’—but what can you expect? The compositor s god
is his belly... .H.N.S.: Bosh. Whit respect can a juryman
possibly have for a newspaper that he knows is profiting by a
huge poli ical robbery? Gan it be supposed that in N S.W.,
under existing circumstances, a level-headed man of the
world is to he imposed upon, when empannelled for
his verdiot, by the hoary ol)l gag about the patriotism,
purity, disinterestedness, and ‘dignity’ of the Press?....
Democrat (Townsville): Many thanks....A. Campbell':
Handwriting very good ; with practice you may one day
achieve the proud pre-eminence of a writing-master’s stool.
R.T. (Riverview) : No, for goodness sake don’t send us
‘ more.’ The man whose love ‘ soars as soars the kite’ can't
write screed worthy of,‘ publication.’....Simon M'Guffia :
You might just as well ask why anything is anything and
wherefore it isn't something else....W. B. Mallard: Pub-
lishing a man’s obituary before he has shuffl ed off the ' mortal'
is not peculiar to Rockhampton. Parkes’ biography, with
most affecting details, is in type in every newspaper office in
the colonies.... J. Andrews : The devil cannot ‘tear h's
hair '; he has no hair to tear. Do you imagine you would
retain your byacinthine locks in an atmosphere of ‘Tartarean
sulphur and strange fire’ 400 end odl degrees, Fahrenheit ? ..
D. Quain (Coraki): You must apply to the Examiner c f Patents,
Sydney Pietro Mazzini (Cooktown) : Thanks for letter.
....J. H. Pjwer (Charters Towers): Sir Henry Parke s and
tie Right Hon. W. B. Dailey were sent to England by the
N.S.W. Government as emigration agents and lecturers ;
Lady Parkes died very recently ; Mr. Varney Parkes (Sir
Henry's son) resigned his position as a member of the N.S W.
Parliament the other day A.M. (Parkes): Many thanks.
....E. Jessup : The assertion that Roman Catholicism and
Protection are the same thing in N.S.W. is a mere half
truth, the fact being that the leaders of the Orange pa-ty
hang onto Fieetrade Parkes, who has always worked the
Orange vote to the full extent of his power, and who now
finds that he cannot hang on to office without bringing into
action the reserves of religious bigotry with which it is his
custom to holster up shaky political principles. Seeing
this, the bulk of the Catholics no doubt vote against
Parkes. The liish, besides, remember that Freetrade
Britain has ruined the industries of their country in the in-
terests of the English commercial ring. Apart from this,
there is co special reason why a N.S.W. Roman Catholic
should be a-Protectionist any more than there was in Vic-
toria any reason why the loeal heads of the O/ange
party, most of whom are staunch Protectionists,
should attach themselves to that fiscal faith.....
F. H. Wyse: Will read and consider T. D.: If you gj in
solvent because you cannot pay a bill given by you in liquida-
tion of a verdict for damages you free yourself from
liability...,T. Jones: Mrs. Gordon-Baillie, instead of get-
ting up a Crofter ' fakement ’ should have taken in hand a
three-and sixpenny silver-mine, got a fe v dukes to head the
prospectus and floated'it in London for a million. That
would have been respectable. ...J.S. : It is wrong to laugh
at a drunken J.P Discipulus Legis (Newcastle): Thanks,
but ha (By simple enough.... John A Dreams: It is effulgent
with a light that never shone on earth —nor anywhere else
that we are acquainted with.... Anxious: Re marrioge with
deceased wife’s sister we cannot speak from experience, our
deceased wife hasn’t got a sister; secondly, our wife is not
deceased ; and finally, the present writer hasn’t got a wife...
My'J’-ither-in-law: Very good, may perhaps use.. Sphyrx:
11 too decidedly local R.H.: There Is no reason in the
world why you should not continue to sort letters, but, for
the sake of humanity, please don't sort them into verses....
Z. Lane : You should not say ‘What may happen to a min
in Australia,’ but ‘What may happen to a man in St.
Amaud ’... .Pro Bono Publico: You have simply fallen into
the error of supposing that The Bulletin advoca'es Pro-
tection in the interests of local Capital, instead of which it
advocates Protection in the interests of local white labour...
Englishman and Conservative : We have not a word in cur
vocabulary mean enough to adequately describe the de-
gradation of your abysmal ignorance and f011y....E.N.D.:
Next week...F,.C.: It is really unusual 'to fan the smoul-
dering fire' of ‘ three million souls burning in their ire,’ with
a ' master of the lyre,’ and we hardly think that William
Morris would care about’it Skitastic: Not up to even
our modest standard....W.E.B.: Under consideration.,..
Frunkerst: The people of N.S.W. are still living under a
convict regime. The transportation of criminals may have
long been stopped, nevertheless the laws of (hat benighted
colony are laws framed by gaolers for their prisoners.
Abolish the present N.S.W. penal code, and one or two other
things, and The Bulletin will never again refer to the
conviot origin of the colony.... Percy S. (Strathdarr, Q.):
Too much Parkes for a season... .James M'Gann: Can you
expeot any other sort of treatment than that you have ex-
perienced at such hands?,..,J Andrews (Sydney): We
received your funeral and were particularly struok—in fact,
violently concussed—by your talent for rhyme. How did
you fix this, for instance :
“ Who aver 3 ruthlessly that he e’en doth prefer
One Chinee to a rabid Protectionist.r.”
Now, wc would put it this way, if only for the sake of
rythm
He'd- rather have a Chineyman
Than a Protectionist who he says is all gam .
-on
The last syllable can be carried over to the next line, which
es it all right.


SUNDRY SHOWS,
Theatre Royal—" lolanthe'• p. 15.
CiiTKRiON Theatre.—" Dick" „
Her Majesty’s Theatre.—" In The Ranks’
Alhambra Music Hall— Saored Concert
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy
“Jess,” which commenced its career at
Sydney Gaiety on Saturday, is a drama whioh
requires to be treated by a naked aboriginal critic
with a club. According to the programme dis-
pensed by the talented attendant at the door, the
piece was adapted from Rider Haggard's novel of
that name by the combined efforts of Messrs.
Dampler and Wrangham. “Jess” is drawn out
into six acts, and filled with the most melancholy
gush ever constructed by any man who aspired to
scrag a work of moderate ability and make the
writer wish that a drav had rolled over his head
at an early age. It contains 12 characters, who,
in their language and their actions are as dismal
as 8100 ciuid reasonably be expected to be. Mosb
of them seem to have been inserted in a
frenzied effort to give a f yle to the proceedings,
and tha show is conducted on such a lavish
scale that when a lady, who is of no account
In the story, oomea on to make a remark
which isn’t worth making anyhow, six able-
bodted oitizsns come along behind her to hear
her do it. Having fulfilled this mission they are
apparently thrown away, for except that one of
them afterwards hollers at a court-martial they
are not used any more. The scene is laid
in the Transvaal at the time of the Boer
war, and when the badly-licked, narrow-chested
boys from British factories are shut up in
Pretoria the Boer offloers drop in upon them in the
most casual way and cheek the entire garrison. It
is the custom, of course, in modern v arfare, when-
ever a British army is hemmed in, for the enemy's
generals to shin over their defences in open day-
light and examine the condition of things inßlde,
and then roost on the walls and call the defenders
bad names and go slowly away without being
shot, but the practice is so demoralising that we
are sorry to see ib encouraged on the stage.
Farther, it would have been better if the little
Frenchman from “ Allan Qaatermain" had not
besn cadged and turned into a Dutchman, and
when the author borrows that Boene frem “ Held
by the Enemy,” in whioh Nelson Decker used to
fall into the stage over the ruins of a blown-up
wall, ib would be wiser for him to taka ib as
originally written and not try to improve it by
making six men fall through the hole instead of
one. It doesn’t make the incident six times
better by a long way. The most striking scene in
the whole drama is the raging flood of the Yaal
River, but the flood at its best doesn’t rage half
eo much as the audience. The saddest dialogue
ever invented outside a sarcophagus ii padded
with ponderous maxims which have no more con-
nection with the story than the Prodigal Son had
with the ulterior circumstances whioh lead to cold
feet ; possibly the piece might be roused into
activity by a la-ge charge of shot fired into the
hinder part of it, but we have our doubts. Miss
Lily I)ampler wastes a lot of good acting in the
endeavour to hold up this dead-horse of literature,
and Messrs. Boottunan, Leston, Stoneham, and
Baker do good work in various blind and para-
lysed parts. A quantity of valuable scenery is
also cast before swine.
*# # #
The Federala at Sydney Academy are
piling things up on a lavish tcale They have
now six end-men in plaoe of four, and the “ Irish
Lad" boxes the “black tight champion" for
borrowed money to the extent of £lO,OOO or more,
and deposits his I O U, to be afterwards bu> nt by
the common hangman. The great sword contest
—a parody on the brilliant struggle between
Donovan and Cold Meat-is thrown in in addition
to this spectacle, and other attractions are pro-
vided in slaihers and songs and sundries are put
on in stacks. The other nigge-s at the A lhambra
are conducting things on a soale of corresponding
magnificence, and unless the management goes in
for gliding the heads of the Ethiopians, it will bo
difficult to add to their attractions in the way of
eilo.r.
#* # #
“ In the ‘Ranks,” at Her Majesty’s (Syd-
ney), has now reached its 63nd night. Ab the
C.iterlon, “Dick” will surrender the operatic
ghost on Friday, and the small fag end of the
burlesque season will be filled in with the ever
green “ Jack Sheppard." At the Royal, Poulton
and Jakobowski will be rampant on Saturday,
when “ Erminie ’’ will have a show, with Messrs.
Elton and Wallaoe to lend enchantment to the
view. It is rough on any dismal foreign er to have
to follow on the heels of “lolanthe,” but it is
hoped that the man who spells Jakob with a “ k"
will be equal to the occasion. The alleged Cen-
tenary Universal Exhibition opens on the 14th, at
Sydney Exhibition Building, situate in the Park
whioh is named after the Prince whose Auckland
washing-bill is still outstanding. The proceedings
will be inaugurated by a lord, five knights, two
“ honorables," an Imperial officer who is the very
model cf a model major-general, a “right wor-
shipful” in the softgoods trade, and a poor,
miserable wretch whose name drags along at the
hinder end of the procession, and who is merely
distinguished as “ Eiq.” And the advertisement
doesn’t state how he became “ E3q.,” either.
:jfc * £
Cable advises the death of John Clayton,
the well-known London actor and manager, who
has probably knocked under to a chronic throat-
affection. Clayton first came to the front about
18 years ago, in Robertson's comedy “Dreams,"
playit g the part of a handsome “ heavy swell ’’ as
no other man ever will play it again. At that
time, and for some few years afterwards, he pre-
sented a stage appeaiance that was an edition de
luxe of Captain de Burgh’s, but of late Clayton be
came too big entirely fo.' young man chars cters
Previous to taking co-managtment of the Courb
Theatre (where be brought out Pinero’s l'ght
comedies) this obese Adonis made a sound reputa-
tion as Dazzle, Joseph Surface, and notably as
Hugh Trevor in “All for Her.” He divided
honours with Charles Warner in the first produc-
tion of “ Lea Danischeffs,” and afterwards sup-
ported Irving in “Richelieu" and a melodrama
called “ Philip " A cerbain morning performance
of “Philip” will never be forgotten bF the
writer cf this In the one powerful scene
of the play, Irving, carrying a loaded gun,
was taunted into suddenly shooting his younger
brother, Clayton, who had to fall apparently
dead. Irving then spread a handkerchief over
his brother’s upturned face, and erepb, horror-
stricken, up a mountain pat s as the ourbain fell. On
the oooasion In question something had gone
wrong with Irving’s gun, and the trigger was
pulled in vain. He snapped ib two or three times
and said “ D n the gun," but nob the ghost of
a report would that miserable weapon throw off.
Under the circumstances, there was nothing for
Clayton to do bub bo fall down without showing
any just cause or reason for his fate, bo down he
went. Bat while Irving was covering up the
poor ghastly face, you coaid see the victim's
majestic stomach wobbling like a jelly in an earth-
quake and the frightened fratrioide could hardly
oreep up the mountain for laughing. Heigho 1 all
that happened in the happy long ago. John Clay-
ton was brother-in-law to Dot and Nina Bonci-
cault, having married the great Dion's eldest
daughter, Eva Bouclcaulb. His family name was
Calthrop, and he was brother to a pretty well-
known painter, Calthrop, R. A. The world could
have better spared a less imposing-looking man.
*# # *
Essie Jenyns, according to a gushing
article in the Melbourne D.T., has a “ passionate
love for the profession into which she may be said
to have been born ” —but, for the information of
Essie’s admirers, The Bulletin begs to rise to a
point cf order. She is the daughter of Dr.
Jenyns, who once upon a time practised the heal-
ing art in Brisbane, and she was at least 10 years
of age before her (then widowed) mother made
her first appearance on the boards. In no respect
was this young divinity born into the profession,
unless she may be said to have been bora again
after the advent of a histrionic step-papa. Then
did the plnafored maiden to blood and thunder
seriously incline. Essie attended rehearsals,
which fired her juvenile imagination to such a
degree that she knew no delight save in hand-to-
hand conflicts with the servant-girl. Many a
time and oft has a small domestic armed herself
with the kitchen shovel, while the embryo star
“laid on Macduff" with the tongs, or put her
back against the onpboard and cried, “ Come one,
come all t ” But Miss Essie was fairly into her teens
before showing any promise of a fine presence, nor
had she the airs and graces of a stage-strnok
miss. In point of fact, it is seldom that any lead-
ing lady cometh up like a flower, despite senti.
IN MEMORIAM
FEDERICI.
mental aneodotes of their childhood’s days which
appear in sassiety papers. True, Miss Jenyns did
in a tense wrestle with the character of Juliet at
a very early age—but not in a Shakespearian
sense. One of her step-sisters bears the baptis-
mal names of Joliet Scott-Siddons, donchersee.
a nd, as this paragraph is beginning to read like the
Memoirs of a Celebrated Actress, we may as well
mention that little Essie first met real “ haotora ”
face to face at the house of eccentric Dr, Beilin-
fante, whose widow has since become Mrs.
William Creswlok. Furthermore, she can claim
connection, on the maternal side, with Morse, the
father of telegraphy, for the present Mrs. Hollo-
way was originally a Miss Morse And, by way
of commending Fssie to saperoilious new-ohnms,
we can inform them that her only brother is
thoroughly English-you-know, having been adopted
by relatives in the old country. For farther
particulars see next volume of the Memoirs.
## # *
Dion Boucicault’a youngest son, Aubrey,
was to make his first appearance on the London
stage in February. Master Aubrey is only 18,
bub has played with a travelling company in the
States.
## # #
Mr. Harry St. Maur has been successfully
sued by Mrs. Digby Willoughby for the restitu-
tion of certain stage goods and a gold watoh. Mr.
St. Maur says the lady gave him the watch to
wear next his heart, bub the lady says she only
lent It him to tell the time with. A hard, unsym-
pathetic court decided that the disputed ticker
must be returned. When actors disagree, dirty
linen is washed.—New proverb.
*# # *
The Triumvirate are making a commend-
able experiment at Melbourne Princess’s by (vide
advt.) “ placing the splendour, &o M of their comic
operas and dramas, &c., into an opera of a higher
olass.” In selecting “Faust” as a firstexperi-
ment the management has hit upon a work whioh
gains little from being rendered in an English
audience’s native tongue, for the reason that ib
tells Its own story almost equally lucidly in choice
Italian. An opera so thoroughly understanded of
the people cannot be held up by a mere luxuri-
ance of scenery and supernumeraries, un’ess the
Btoging cf the principals is pretty well up to
traditional form, whereas with such as “ Lucia di
Lammermoor,” or “ Aida," an English translation
might go a long way. And in these introductory
remarks lies more honest common-sense than will
appear in a column criticism In any Melbourne
daily. The present production of “ Faust ”
is unique, in so far that the mounting and
accessories are miles in front of the vocalism
and music generally : ib is, in point of fact, a gor-
geous leg-show whenever opportunity offers. Of
bhe company, it may be admitted that they sing
ard aot their parts well, as far as in them lies,
without ever clearing the great gulf dividing
“ Dorothy ” from grand opera. Comparing them,
for instance, with the late Simonsen Company,
their voices are like pleasing eohoes heard from
afar off—faint suggestions of melodious facts
Miss Nellie Stewart was unexpectedly feeble at
the outset on Saturday night, but she stayed well
and poured forth a considerable volume of Bong in
the last act. Yet at her best—her Improved best
—Miss Nellie made It dear that the nicest of
ducks ian t a swan. Federici was a depressing
Devil, and Leumane’s big effort in tbe garden
scene only served to awaken painful memo-
ries of others much better. Later cn
he finished off his comparatively feeble
notes with Lazzarini’s soulful sob, and became
comic. A flavour of Gilbert and Sullivan hung
about the Martha of Miss Alice Barnett, making
ib hard to accept her as anything but a joke. On
the other hand, Miss Liddiard scored considerably
as Siebel, and Mr. Knight Aston’s Valentine was
“ all very fine and large ”in an acting sense. He
filled his part and sang with a certain plucky air
of being a born baritone instead of an ex-tenor.
A strong orchestra appeared not quite to grasp
the subtle beauties of their job, but the perform-
ance went smoothly enough, especially when the
chorus was about. The Triumvirate have been
“compelled to revise the scale of prices they
also “rely on the musical public of Melbourne to
encourage them to give other great works in the
same manner.” We fear no ether great work*
will be enquired for just at present, and yet
“ Faust" is an imposing thing in all but the chief
essential,
## # *
Mr. Federici, who played Mephistopheles
in “ Faust," was, as ib appears, lying dead in the
green-room of Melbourne Princess’s when onr
notice was written. We forgot to mention that,
in the present version, both Demon and pupil
slide down to lower regions, and that the descant
was somewhat ineffective on Saturday night, the
seeming hiteh being in poor Federici’s clutching at
the boards for support as the sliding-trap brought
his hands to the stage level. That was an expir-
ing effort, for immediately afterwards he rolled
off the trap insensible, and was cirried into
the green-room to die. The dramatic end
of Federici —his hideously-painted dead face
and spiritless body tricked out in the
traditional scarlet of stage devil may
Inspire some painter of the gruesome to im-
mortalise this lamentable occurrence; in the
meantime many a snuffling preaoher will use it as a
means to make hysterical females feel rather more
mixed than usual. Ri Jat , _an actor is a “ bad
case of heart-diseas n him -nances are that he
will die in harness, ; Sir J«ne ordinary course of
Nature thiß poor fello;Vafecumbed to the special
excitement and fatigue of playing Die most im-
portant operatio parb he had ever attempted. And
it chanced to be the part of Beelzebub. Mr.
Federici’s oomplaint must have been hurrying
towards its climax for some little time.
Ib affected hia voice so strangely that a
recent Bulletin notice spoke of him as
“singing like a raven these last few weeks.” ape-
cul'arity which other papers, doubtless, will now
remember for the first time. Federici's Austra-
lian tZeftitf was in “Princess Icla,” and, barring a
fihort season in Adelaide, he hasn’t since per-
formed away from the theatre where dea'h sud-
denly terminated h ? s two years' engagement to
the Triumvirate, Although a fair performer,
with a cultivated voice, ib cannot be said that
Mr. Federlci made a great name for himself, save
wh-n he renounced his family title of Baker.
“ How could a man become famous," he was wont
to ask, “ with a name like Baker
A human devil (this is rather quaint),
If duly warned, will surely die a saint—
For blackest villains pray the longest prayers.
But Death takes honest people nnawares,
As in this case where, dreamir g not of evil,
A right good fellow died an awful Devil,
Mr. Federici leaves a widow and family, and,
considering all the circumstances of his lamentable
death, we have no doubt his late emolojers will
come forward with a handsome benefit), in which
the profession and public will right heart ly assist,
W -Tv* *3v* *7?
Although Miss Jenyns and 00. did very
fair business with “As You Like lb,” the Bijou
bill was changed on Saturday, when the wreath-
ing armed Parthenia conducted Ingomar around
as though she had that unshorn savage on the end
c f a string. Artistically speaking, a play like
“ Ingomar ” is deader than the man who wrote ib,
but Mary Anderson chooses to posa as the Greek
Maiden, so there is no act of Parliament to pre-
vent Essie from showing us exactly how Mary
does it. The young lady accomplishes this feat in
every particular, from the flxing-up of her hair to
the pointing of her left foot, and if “Ingomar”
were chopped up into tableaux vivants they would
be quite too sweet for anjthing. As the hero,
Mr. Holloway impressed everybody but the gal-
lery boys, who have little or no soul for what fs
truly great. They laughed -positively laughed!
—when an old Greek identity in a winding-sheet
made personal remarks about Ingomar s locks and
beard, and the hairy barbarian cried, ‘'Then cub
them orrf!” The play was well set up, and,
better still, Miss Essie showed a tendency to
adept the low, sweet voice which is woman's
greatest charm.
## # #
Things are beginning to look funereal for
Mr. St. Manr at Melbourne Alexandra. “Brigh-
ten ’’ was tried fir a week, and on Saturday he
dropped into a romantic drama called “ S:age
Land.” The extreme awfalness of this work was
intensified by a spurious lag who flapped
her fists to make believe she wai suffer-
ing from extreme old age. It fs sad to see
Mr. St. Maur rowing agairsl the tide cf misfor-
tune with a ton of iuccmpetenca oa board his
craft. “ Drink ” goes prosperously at the Royal,
and burlesques on that t even act liquor-subject
are given at both the burnt-cork-and-baauty
shows. The Mesmerist has come to his last week,
all Melbourne having paid its money or gone in
with an order to see this monument of >s colossal
cheek,
## # #
Consider the Langtry, how she grew. She
toiled not, neither did she spin, but Solomon in all
his glory wasn't a patch on her in the matter ot
clothes, and now Bhe has gone in for a dress made
mostly cf bats’ wings, with a whole dead, stuffed
bat at the bosom, aid a bat to wear on her head,
and bats' claws on her slip; era. There -are also
wings to the garment and wire fixings to flap
them with when wanted. A rather subsequent
correspondent writes to point out that, in The
World Against Her ” at Bsdrey Gaiety, Mr. Dam-
pier wore the same suit cf clothes all through,
though three months were understood to
elapse between the acts, and he was sup-
posed to have become a bloated millionaire
in the interval. We can't account for this,
unless the suit was one cf those wear-resist-
ing fabrics which Kurlz used to give his cus-
tomers an allotment of land to take away out cf
the placs and be barged to them. Mr. H. B.
Ktng, who claims to have seen 17 years’ service in
the British army, states that one of the swords-
men who jobbed at another fiery warrior for the
billet of champion of the world recently at Bondi,
never drew a sword in his life until 12 mouths
ago. He doesn’t say which it was. The “ Berber,"
a spectacular drama by an abjectly local genius,
was produced last week at Ballarat (Yic.)
It proved to be a whirlwind of arms and
legs, but no one has yet discovered what
ih is supposed to be about. The piece con-
cludes with a sanguinary insurrection of pirates.
It is rumoured that the Bill Holloway combinath n
in Melbourne is at internal loggerheads, and ihat
the members are accusing each other of not being
on speaking terms with the Queen’s English.
Negotiations are going on with a view to bringing
Patti out to Australia, It is understood that she
will run a three months’ engagement provided
the whole of George-slreet, Sidney, and Bourke-
street, Melbourne, are made over to her on a
Torrens title, together with a 99 years’ lease of
the whole tramway system of Australia and the
gross takings of the season, combined with a free
railway pass and Government billets for all her
relatives. Patti has not got cancer of the stomach
*8 reported. Zolas “Germinal” is to be drama-
tised as “Master and Man," and Mr. Sidney, of
Leitch’s “Harbor Lights” combination, intends
tunning it in Australia. The portly Wales some-
how lost his footing at the doorstep of the Hay-
market (London) Theatre the other night, and
tie’ore the attendant flunkey could hoist him un
(omebody trod on him. Bless the Prince cf
Wales ! Edwin Booth and Laurence Barrett are
playing “ Jolius Cse3ar” at New Yoik to an awful
crush, The first night seven basketfuls of squashed
hats, coat-tails, paper collars and ladies’ fixings were
gathered up at the conclusion of the show.
Johnny Solomon, go thou and do likewise. An
infatuated London masher proposed to a nymph
from a leg-Bhow the other night. She borrowed
£lO from him, and then told him that she had
iwo husbands living already. In the “Shaugh-
ran ” one or the actors examines a wounded m<*n,
and then draws a pocket-book from his breast and
discovers that it has Btopped the bullet. In Dion
Bouoieault’s younger days it happened that the
other man unthinkingly left the book in his rear
pocket, and, when he had rolled over, Dion ex-
tracted the volume, and then, striking an atti-
tude, started the wonted speech, “A bullet en-
tered here—" he commenced pointing to the
prostrate sufferer’s coat-tails. (Laughter.) Even-
ing dress is going out of fashion in the London
theatres. Male evening-dress, we mean. The
metropolitan female is still out low. The Jersey
Lily doesn’t want any rude individuals looking in
at her windows ; she has built six tall fences
round her house in twelve months, and the gates
are fixed with springs so that they are liable to
close on any intruder and jam him up with hia
head Inside and his feet out,


Pepper
And
Salt
A small man, who w«s obviously built to
tread rlie paths of pe sC3 rather than to do a
champion tlogger and knock-out) his fellow-
creatures In 750 rounds, writ; s a tale of hitter woe
te aN Z. paper. He was at home in bed ore
night, an unprotected male sfb, high, when
he heard the front door open, ar d a stealthy bread
like that of an elephant a-burgllng resounded on
the stairs. Bis first impulse was to rise and
clutch the intruder by the ha'r, but he suppressed
this inclination and lay still and perspirad. He
heard the visitor pack up the plate and softly
hump it outside ;.he listened while be removed
the spoons and forks and a silver inkstand, and
while he fell over the sofa and barked his shins;
and then ho saw the shadow of a human monster
Oft, 2in. in perpendicular dimensions enter his
bedroom and take his watch, and shake
the coin out of his trousers-pockets. He saw
all this, and succ933fully smothered his in-
clination to get out and fight, and was glad
to find himself still alive when it was all
over. A day or two later he was going along
the street when a great, cool shadow fall upon
him, and looking up, he saw the burglar, whose
gigantic dimensions filled half the firmament, Ha
watched him and followed close behind, and
when he had trotted about fialf-a mi.e in the
wake of the vast despoiler two policemen hove
in view, " I say,” whispered the small cit 1 / m,
excitedly; “ that’s the man that broke into my
house.” The constables gazed thoughtfully after
him as he lurched down the street. “ That him ? ”
queried the bigger of the two anxiously, “ Yes,
that’s him” “Are ye pretty sure of his Agger,
now?" said the smaller officer meditatively.
“ Yes, it's him, right enough. Why don't you
arrest him! ’ The two policemen looked at each
other again, and then surveyed the citizen.
“ Well, why didn’t ye hold him till we came ?"
they demanded together. ‘‘He's gone now.”
“ Why didn’t I hold him?!’ said the little man
with bitter irony. ‘‘D ye think I can hold a horse
by the hind legs ? D’ye think I can clutch an
earthquake and keep it here till you come ?
P'raps you'd like me to collar a gallon of boiling
watsr ? Maybe you want me to take a cataract
by the heels? Why didn’t 2 hold him ? Then
what the deuce did Providence make you tor, I’d
like to know ? ” He was arrested at this point for
obteene language while in the execution of their
duty, or something of the kind, and his remon-
strances were smothered in the lockup,
* * *.
The Rev. Dr. Zachary Barry, of Sydney,
has written to the S.M. Herald to prove that the
sun’s light and heat are not diminishing. He
cannot see any good reason for the “ melancholy
conclusion" held by some scientists that “the
sun himself must die.”
Yeß, Faith-healer J. A. Dowle, erst of
Sydney, baa bawled his last sermon in Australia,
and now the nubbley-headed apostle is another
fellow off to America. The halt, the maimed, and
the blind of these parts must get along under their
afflictions tbe best way they can, for there is no
more Dowle to blow on their bad places and make
them whole. We are sorry to lose this thick-set
chunk of healing influence because he once stated,
at the Melbourne Temperance Hall, thai he hoped
to get a Divine recipe for raising men irom the
deid. And we had always intended that Dowie
should thump on our coffin-lid with his umbrella,
and say, “Come out of thatl” after which we
should have got R. S. Sms the to show us around,
as the Australian Lazarus, for £5OO a week and
expenses. To think this invaluable creature is
eaving Melbourne in disgust tecau-e the Free
Christian Tabernacle collections didnt pay his
meat-bill!
* * *
Dr. Creed still struggles at intervals In
the N.S.W. Legislative Council to get a hold upon
the colonial military accounts, and can’t undtr-
stand why these figures are so hard to obtain.
Perhaps if the doctor were himself a litt’e more cf
an accountant be would comprehend the case.
The mi itary department never had any accounts.
It has a lot of incrh?rent memoranda stowed
away in a candle-b x, but certain of the officials
can’t read their own w/iting half the time, ai d
are getting bald with tr/'ng to guess whac the
cotes »re about. Items of Jubilee expenditure
are briefly noted down as “ Bait for the old girl,”
and now they can’t remember whether the old
girl is meant for Her Gracious or not. “ Inter-
viewing an ancient pants-marine £25 ” is supposed
to he the ot st of somebody’s journey to Melbourne
to confer with Colonel Sargool, but the Depart-
menb isn’t sure, and' the rest of the accounts are
equally doubtful. When the son of a'gun finds
his cash won’t balance according to the notes on
the fly-leaf of his best girl’s letter he briefly enters
“ Short, 18s. 0i1.," and the thing is done. This is
the true reason why Creed, M L C., can’t get the
military account 5 , a~d unless he se’zas the caudle-
box* and ge-s it audited he is not likely to make
any progress wcr h sweariDg absut.
* » *
Oiie of the oldest pioneers of the press in
Australia died in the Inglewood (Vio ) Hospital
the other day. It is a relief to read this, We
were tired of hearing of them shuffling off in the
Benevolent Asylum and on the street Perhaps
the new generation of pressman will be able to
die on time payment beds of their own,
* *
What the Age calls a ‘Mocal gospel tem-
perance missionife" was, a few days ago, prose-
cuted at Khw (Vic.) for allowing a nuisance to
exist in his yard. This is another proof that it is
possible to have so much godliness that there is
no room for cleanliness. Most of the first-class
gain's were well, they we T e very tender-
hearted where insect life was concerned, and only
took water inwardly.
* * *
Melbourne Argus' wound up a solemn
chant, in the shape of a leading article, lately,
with a reference to “ that unseen Eternal
Presence, of whom the rolling worlds are the ves-
ture. and the storm-tossed souls of men are the
thoughts.’’ Sounds like a mixture of Jferemy
Taylor and William Blake, the Mystic, doesn’t it?
But it is all sound—all froth, and signifleth
devilish little. If the storm-tossed souls of men
are the thoughts of the Supreme, He must be.
COMPREHENSIVE AND CONGENIAL.
“I HEAR YOU’RE ON THE EXHIBITION COMMISSION.”
“YES.”
“WHAT COMMITTEE?"
“REFRESHMENT, AND FINE ARTS.”
comparatively, a very poor kind of thinker, and
sometimes a very evil one. Imagine the possi-
bility of any one being blasphemous enough to say
John Haynes-or Editor Haddon—was. a thought
of the Almighty I The earth would open and
swallow that man before he got through speaking
half the libel I
* * *
At a meeting of cricket, representatives,
held in Melbourne a short time.ago, o' e of them
said he “ considered it very hard that a poor man
with a family shouQ be away from his work for
10 or 12 days without being remunerated ” Ter
rible hardship, no doubt. Cricket, of course, be
had to play, no matter what happened to the
family. Still it must be a fine consolation fer the
mother to be able to say to the youngsters, when
they come clamouring to her far something to eat,
“ Hnßh dears—there is nothing in the house. But,
no matter, think of the runs your father Is
making 1” Very soothing it must be, indeed.
• i • •
The choir of a church in one -of the Mel-
bourne suburbs presented their leader with an
Illuminated address in the form of a “pome”
lately. The following is the concluding verse
“God bless our minister, we pray,
God b'ess our choir, we also say,
God bless our church, Gad bless our school,
God bless our leader, Mr. Pool?.’’
Gorgeous, isn’t it ? t This Is-tihlior come frem
under his bushel so that y crown him with
the turnip-top wreath cubes’ 116 - His name is
Lawrence—why should he aide it ? No, let it j
reverberate, let it resound. Jet it hum till in cracks
the welkin and makes a hole in the empyrean. :
He has written agreat poem—sogreat that we were
nnable to grapple with more than one verse of it. j
It Is with difficulty that we have repressed an nn-
hallowed desire to write another Verse to wind
the thing up in a light and festive manner, refer-
ring airily in the last line to the hero of the poem
as “Devil's poole." But we have succeeded,
thank goodness*
• • *
Mr. Varney Parkes, son of Premier
Parkes, has resigned his seat in the N.S.W.
Assembly, ard his bounceable old parent is again
left to represent the family in the ’Ouse all by
’imself, The rasa is not one of the survival of the
fittest. Mr. Parkes, though a Freetrader, always
voted straight and honestly according to his con-
victions, and the natural result was that he voted
against the old man pretty often. He occasionally
shoved symptoms of brains, and If he had decided
to adhere to politics he might have ultimately
lifted the name of Parkes out cf the mire into
which it has fallen through too much association
with the short and sitaple annals of the Insolvency
Court; but probably te felt that so long as ilia
founder of the race was to the fore it was useless
toattempt to elevate the widely known cognomen
wh'ch he bore, Mr. Parkes f nee displayed his in-
dependence of spirit by voting for a motion that
the author of his being should be landed out of
Parliament on his ear, and this action alone should
cause th 9 name of the retiring member to be held
in esteem by his suffering country.
* * *■
Brother the Revd. Madgwick stated In a
recent yellow oration that “there never was any
blemish on William III.,” from which we gather
teat he knows nothing of the universal blemish
which fell on that asthmatic monarch in Dublin
many years ago. An equestrian statue of the
wheezy foreigner who ran his wife’s father out of
his billet and left him without a cent, faces the
old Parliament House in College Green, and it
was long the custom of the citizens to repaint sad
gild this image on the nighn before the anniver-
sary of the eccimmageat the Boyne—which, by-the-
bye, took place on the Ist July, though Ah Haynes
and his brotherhood mostly fancy it was the 12C'<i.
Somewhere in the far long ago, an ancient watch-
man, who chanced to be punting over his midnight
“ b ate ” discovered a man with a brush and a
bucket fooling around the noble figure and de-
manded to know what divilment he was u<> to,
sure. “Oh, begorra! it’s givin’ his Majesty a
lovely coat o’ paint f’r to-morrcw, I am, an’ won’t
we make them gory papishts ready to cut their
throats with envy in the mamin whin dayloight
breaks," was the prompt reply- “ Kape an oi on
the bucket a moment, will yez?” and the artist
fled round the corner. The watchman kept his
eye on the bucket for six weury hours, and then
daylight broke and William stood forth in a coat
of tar looking like an escaped fiend from a pano-
rama. And if that wasn’t; a blemish on the
historic BUI we think it is time that Madgwiok
had his mind dug up in order to get a surface on
which to sow some fresh grammar.
♦ •
The Town Clerk of the municipality of
Jon don recently addressed a letter to “Hon.
Alfred L’eakin, Chief Secretary of the Colony of
Victoria New Sou'h Wales.” And the argtjs
quotes this as a proof that “ great igneranoa still
prevails, even in high quarters, in Great Britain,
with regard to colos ial geography.” Ye gods !
What else but ignorance Is exoeoted from a Town
Cieik, and where are we to lookfor low quarters ?
‘ ‘ The Queen has been graciously pleased
to accept some magnificent Queensland opals
from Mr. Herbert William Bond, of Toowoomba
' 1Q,).” We suppose Bond will Jive happily ever
■ id' er now. It i=i a right roya l , and noble feature
about the character of Her Majesty that her hand
is always open—to take.
• • *
Sir Edwin Smith, Mayor of Adelaide,
publicly stated that he had tried to indues George
Giffen to join the Ausralisn Eleven; but without
euoccfs.
When the niicd gmcH, some time agov.
raised an outcry against boxing being allowed in
Sydney, Parkes promised to vibit the saloons and
decide fbr himself whether the affairs should be
allowed to go on or not. Accordingly, one day, a
wh'le back, having set Abigail a page of dictation
to copy out, the great man strolled down to Foley’s
to Eee what was to be done, and a representative
of this journal, who happened to be there at the
time, gives the following account of what
occurred As the great Hi-Ham marched m&jes-
lically into Foley’s bar, and demanded to see the
“ pugilistical proprietor," an aged fighting-man.
who was attending to the bar, after gazing bard
at the Prtmier’s classic features, gave a yell of
astonishment, ard* exclaimed, “ Lord bless me, If
it aint Deaf Burke come back to life f Sir Henry
is said to bear a strong facial resemblance to a
departed pugilist who was famous in the scientific
world under the sobriquet of Deaf Burke. The'
Premier stared, and the old brulfer advanced
holding out the hand of amity. “’Ow are yer,
deaf ’un?” he jelled at the top of his voice.
“Put it there, if it’s red-hot "—at the same
time offering to shake hands. With an aggrieved*
look the great man drew himself up, and replied,
haughtily, “ You make a mistake. Hi aint deaf,
and my name lsn t Burke. Im the Premier.”
“ Not Deaf Bur fee!:" said the old warrior
astonished ; “ I could have sworn to jour nose.
’Owever, I wouldn’t be so ftwh about it; I’ll swear
you ain’t as good a man as Deaf Burke anywayß.
What’s your name, anyhow?" “Parkes."
“Parkes!” repeated the knocker-out; “never
heard of you. What’s your line —boxin’, rowin',
three-oard, thimbleriggin’, foot-racin —though I
shouldn't take jou for a man with much dash of
foot ?<" “ I told you, ’ said the statesman, angrily,
“ that lam the Prtmier." “ Oh, stow that rot! ”
said the athlete, “ what are ytu premier at—
middle-weights, Grotco Roman, collar-an’-elbow V
Everybody's a Premier, something or other now-
a-daysa The town’s stiff with champions, and
premiers, and nonpareils, and such like." “ I’m-
the Premier of New South Wales,” thundered the
old man, now thoroughly roused. “Oh, only a
local celebrity," said the other, pityingly ; “ I’m
premier middleweight-boxer of the univeise my-
self—no Noo South Wales oompanionship for me ;•
'owever, there’s some boxin’ goin’ on inside, if you
want to have a look, so oome alorg—it’s dry work
talkin’, though.” And the boxer went through
the solemn performance of holding up his gnarled’
and dirty forefinger, and making three separate
ineffectual attempts to spit on it: then he
held it up for the Premier’s inspection,
at the same time remarking, “ puffeckly
dry.” This ceremony, which is de rigueur in
scientific circles, is meant to indicate the extreme
thirst of the gentleman going through it, and his-
consequent inordinate desire for liquid refresh-
ment. The Premier, however, did not take the
hint, and the boxer ventured on a further sugges-
tion—“ Wouldn’t it be a good line to blow the
froth off it before we go ?” he remarked, and this
time the veteran politician a stented, and they
blew the froth off two foaming tankards at the
Premier s expense. “ Now,” said the pug ,
“ oome along o' me, and I’ll interjuice yer to the
boys as Deat Burke ; you lay low." They moved
on into a room where a lot of the fistic fraternity
were assembled. “ Boys,” said the fighting man,
“ this is my old friend, Deaf Burke—the greatest
man that ever stepped into a ring. When him
and me used to be fightin’, then flghtin’ was
fightin : no playing puff-faoe with big gloves and
makln’ a draw for the gate money. Lor’, I seen a
Brummagem chap and a snob from Lunnon ’ave a
set-to in Seven Dials just for love of it, and the
Brummagem man had his left listener chewed off
in the fust routd. Ah, them was the times!’
The entrance of Foley put an end to these reminis-
cences, and the politician went away with
him, leaving the old man orating to a bored
and incredulous audience about the time
when Tom Sayers died —“ and all the profes-
sion went to the funeral, and there was 37
fights in the first two hundred yards, not counting
a scratching set-to between two women.” Our
epresentative followed the Premier to the boxing
hall, where Foley explained the mysteries cf the
noble art. “ You sse,” he remarked, “the chap
facin’ us ? Well, he holds his dooks too high, and
in ’arf a minute he'll get one in the paltry”—a
favourite expression for the place where one's
victuals are securely resting. This prediction waß
amply verified, and the boxer was floored**
“ Ought to have looked out for that,” said Foley.
“ He's all for sloggin’ out, that cove ; if he'd goin
for protection he’d do a deal better.” “Protec-
tion !” snorted the boss of all the freetraders,
“ Do you mean to tell me you believe in protec-
tion?' “In course, ’ wasthereply ; “if you don’t
protect yourself you’ll always get more than you
give, and that don't pay.” “That’s a fallacy,”
said the other. “It has been said by hingnese
Wise, and must be true, that imports and exports
always balance each other j it’s an invariable
rule." “All right.” replied the boxer, “You
come here some night and put on the gloves with
Black Jaokson, and sr e if you don't import a great
deal more than you export.” But here the eld
man stalked wrathful ly cut, muttering something
about “ Seedplots of Protectionism," and we may
expect to have all boxing-saloons closed at au
early date.
Whit is this latest worry, reverend sir, about a
dying sun?
To you and all your tribe what matters it If S )1 s
bright race is run ?
For you, your dogmas and your creeds will long
enough have passed away,
When comes the hour that sees the sun's last rajf.
We have not, it is true, forgot—Macaulay's
memory is ours—
How long ago on puzzling Genesis you tried your
earlier powers,
And with parade of scientific terms, insisted right
or wrong,
Those working “ days ” were infinitely long.
Your zeal those hoary myths to bolster up with
scientific phrase,
We understood right well—a little thought will
make it clear, it pays—
But why the sun’s slow loss tf heat should draw
you into Granny’s page
Would puzzle all the wise men of the age.
Eure’t cannot be that with the fantasy once held
your brain is filled,
That Sol’s chief province is to heat the place
where sinners’ souls are grilled,
And frightened by this modern scienca-talk of his
expiring glow,
You fear a respite for those down below 1
Howe’er the matter b?, our tip Is, Dootor, give
the matter up,
You’re more at) home when slating Rome, or
cheering on the “ Yellow Pup,”
For we, good Dootor, dare to tell you what will
raise some good men’s hair,
The •‘science” of the Church is “bunkum”—
there ! _
TO GIFFEN.
O! Gif., and Could Sir Edwin Smith
Your stubborn heart do nothing with 1
Would you not hearken to the prayer
Of that quite-newly-knighted Mayor J
To think that he, without success,
Has pleaded for your whispered ‘ 1 Yes ?’
If men of coarser, meaner clay
You answered with a churlish “ Nay,"
It seems to us you really might
Have made obeisance to tte knight,
Exclaiming—“ Though I’d other ’.Hews,
Sir Edwin Smith I 6an'i refuse.”
Ah 1 has it come to this at last—
The age of chivalry is past!
Sure, earthly glory is a myth,
When Giffen doesn’t care for 1 Smith—
A knight, a MayCr, a magistrate,
And everything that’s good and great.
Straight to his saCred presence run !
And ory, “ Thy titled will be done !'
Then all mankind will Heaven thank
That you had some respeCt for rank,
And praise the Loard that Giffen played
To please the Mayor of Adelaide.


If you want a suit of clothes, which, for flit,
style and finish, cannot be beaten, go to Lenschner
and Maguire, 72 King-street.*
Study your own interest by using Pemell's Snow-whit*
Patent Roller Flour, It is made in the colony from
the best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery,
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low,*
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ Mr.” Carrie Swain is a large shareholder
n the Broken Hill mines.
King Malietoa of Samoa, has been exiled
to the Camera; ns, We 4 4‘tica, by the Germans.
“ Nt>w Zealand sOalyGem ra;,” SirGaorge
Wnltmore, is writing a oo,k on tne last Maori
war.
Hon. J, L , Tole, until lately Minister of
Justics ia New Zealand, is a graduate of Sydney
University,
F. J. Moss, an N.Z. politician and journa-
.ist, has a “ History ot Discovery in the Pactfi j”
in the press.
The silver boom has affected all classes.
The other day, in one ot the Australian cap! a!s,
the public flogger was seen bidding vigorously for
stock.
Rupert Carrington who was baptized
Peregrine has bean appointed ADC. to his Ex-
cellency of the Yawn, vice Majtr Gasoogue re-
signed.
Dr. E. M. James, of Melbourne, is
amongst the lucky ones He is said to have in-
vested £5OOO in Broken Hill stiver shares, and sold
out for £375,000.
Parkes never says “Good evening” to
anybody. He always says “Good evening, sir."
This is as suggestive an index to his character as
his fishy hand grasp.
Sir Robert Wisdom has a bad attack of
jaundice. To this his enemies attribute his conver-
sion to Protection. At least, wa would say it
were we his enemies.
Unlike Premier Parkes, in using the per-
sonal pronoun, the late Archbishop Vaughan
always wro'e the Bmall i. He probably used to
read Francis Adams’ poetry.
The jubilee of the R.C. Church in New
Zealand has just been celebrated. . Thomas
Poynton, in whose house the first mass was cele-
brated, is still alive and hearty.
Fairfax and Jervois have been termed in
N.Z, Bunthorne and Grosvenor. This is hardly
fair to Vernon, who, with all his faults, pos-
sessed a near approach to a voice.
dhe Crown Prince of Germany will pro-
bably soon die —from exhaustion, and inflammation
of ths lurgs canted by the flow of untempeied
air through the tracheotomy-tube.
Vogel’s mission to England ia in connec
tion wita a company it is proposed to form to
bring out an illustrated work on the Pacific, on
the lines of the “ Picturesque Atlas of Australia,”
One of the objects of Inspector-General
Fosbery, of the JN, SW. police, in visiting
England, is to learn how to find a bobby when
wanted. In Australia this problem Is still un-
solved.
A little while ago, while the engineer of a
British man-o’-war wa3 out dining in Sydney, a
friend made him a present of 5000 silver-shares.
When he returned from Auckland t is shares were
worth £5OOO.
The first royal baptism that has taken
place in Scotland for two centuries was that of
the offspring of two Germans—Princess Beatrice
and Battenberg. The spirit of Scotland died at
Flodden.
Poor old Halloran, C.M.G., turns up in a
Brisbane weekly as “one of the best-known Aus
tralian poets ” Plenty of paople know Halloran
as a literary groveller, but no one ever heard he
was a poet.
The “ Vagabond ” referred in a late article
to the Founder of Christianity and St, Vincent de
Paul. Yet he called neither of them his “ dear
■old friend. 1 ’ There is sme mys ery about this
We don’t understand it, anyhow.
Buideot Smith, it is said, some time ago
refused a C.M.G -ship It is alleges that, when
•in England, he could have had a ba onetcy, but
this he declined, as he will very likely get an earl-
■dom alter the Melbourne Exhibition.
The warlike Akehuret, ex-M.P., of Mel-
bourne—President of the. Central Board of Health
—who unsheathed his sword against the insur-
gent miners at Eureka Stockale in ’5l, wants to
be made Secretary of Defence, vice Downes gone
'to S.A.
Dr. Mesac Thomas, ofGoulburn, N.S.W.,
is the senior Bishop of the Church of England in
Australia, having been appointed In 1863. Doctor
Daniel Murphy, Bishop of Hobart, consecrated in
JBl6, is the Oldest Prelate of the R.C. Church in
Australasia.
Professor Kussemaul, the eminent
'specialist, has been summoned to join the other
'eminent owls now in attendance on the Crown
Prince. He says the disease is cancer and nothing
‘else. Poor Crown Prince ! Poor Germany ! Poor
Morell Mackenzie.
Mr. Neill, the general-manager of the City
Bank, Sydney, Is now constantly mistaken for his
'friend, Sir Henry Parkes, As he walks alo-g
•he sometimes hears people say, “ Ah, there goes
that slippery old fellow, Parkes.” At least we
presume he hears it. They eay it, anyhow.
The condition of <the Grown Prince of;
‘Germany is now considered hopeless, ois the.
'Oindit.on of tie Crown Prince of England—
morally. He has of lato been rushing round at
night with all the titled rubbish of the Pelican
Club, and shaking hands in public with John L.
Sullivan, E ; q.
Syoney Taiwhanga, a Maori member of
N.Z, Parliament, has just gone to.gaol on a jadg-
’ meno summons obtained by a confiding parey
who bad provided him with bon'd and
1 lodging, A Bill for the Abolition of Imprisonment
for Debt is, thereiore, one of the certainties of
next Parliament.
A Melbourne daily osca wrote that Henry
- Miller’s “ conniiug-house was his church, his desk
was his paw, his ledger was nis Bible, aad money
"was his God." If such was the case, we rise to
> sardonically remark, on behalf of Miller, that he
p*id greater attention to his deity than the aver-
<* age church-goer gives to his.
The most telling advertisement to be seen
I) i n Sydney is the large brass shield on the high
al bar at St. Mary’s K.C. Cathedral. The legend
■ taereon tells an enquiring public teat it (the alcai)
was ptesented to me Cathedral by Alban J Riiey
and his orother. This method licks anything that
even the “ largest circulation” affords.
Irving Bishop, “the thought-reader,”
'leaves ’Frisoo for Sydney in July. When he was
la London, Oscar Wilde asked him to Keats
House, Chelsea, the ms the tic’s abode, to meet our
old friend Tummy and Lillie Langtry. Bishop
tried to read Tammy’s mind, but failed utterly.
Afterwards, he said he didn’t thiuk Tummy had
any.
It has been stated in the pipers that Mr.
Burdekin, ELI, of Sidney, has gVsn £lOOO
“ti be distributed among tha poor Jews of
Sydney." Tha rumour, for which th ra is nut tha
fl m test foun'ta ion reads almost as funnily as
would an ann« uncement -hat a ricn H brew
sentleman had given £lOOO to be d siributed
among the poor Burden ins
David Gauason. Wlndeyer’s ad
mires) sanad vc cate wh io' ten cent- ivea to set the
Bench’d “ back up ' against r-is client Last week
navy toll a selc-lmpurtant file of “beaks” that
they were bound to allow bail. Coes-quently
tbey didn't allow bail, and Davy’s young friend
was carried off to durance vi e. Cest magnifique,
mrais cc nest pai la guerre.
It is relied of a well known N.S W.
political butcher that he bad a row with an
equally well-known literary butoher—this is a
compliment —and the latter (Frank Hutchinson),
snapping his fingers in his face, as the politick.n
apostrophized his ancestral genii, exclaimed,
“Bah! who cares for your ancestors? Your
Pedigree ! Piggery, you mean ! ’
There are 22 retired colonial bishops of the’
Anglican Church living in England. This does
not include Bishop Moorhau c e, late of Melbourne,
who now dates from Bishopscourt, Manchester,
England. The oldest of these easy-going prelates,
who have ceased to labour in the Lord’s vineyard,
is Ptrry, D D., late of Melbourne, who retired in
1877. He is 81 years of age and childless
Ia tha year 1862 three now-distinguished
Australians lived close to one another in the Irish
capital. Mr. (now Sir F. M.) Dailey had bar-
rister’s chambers in Ely Place ; round the corner
in Hume street, Dr. O Doherty, now of Queens-
land, followed the practice of physic ; and over at
Trinity College Henry John Wrixon (now Attorney-
General of Victoria) was living in Chambers and
writing for the newspapers.
Lord Becrthirsb, at latest, was at Monte
Carlo, and the London Bat alludes to his pigeon-
A PRECOCIOUS POLITICAN.
“I [?] stop the little newsboys, and hold conversations with them.”— Parkes
at [?]
SIH'ENRY: “LITTLE BOY, I WANT THE ‘HEVENIN NOOZE,' AND YOU CAN WRAP
‘THE BULLETIN’ AND THE ‘STAR’ UP IN IT AS WELL. ILL PAY YOU FOR
THE LOT TO-MORROW. MY NAME ,IS SIR 'ENRY PARKES.”
NEWSBOY ([?]layfully tapping the [?]ip ,of his nose with the index finger of his right hand):
“NO YER DON'T. MY NAME AINT MACNAMARA!”
slaughtering performances there, and describes
him as “ one of the mast promising of the shoot-
ing novices.” TLat was just the way Bookmaker
Sutton regarded him when the* lord lost money to
Mm over the shooting business at Melbourne. He
was one of the most promising and the least pay-
ing novicßS who ever struck Austra'ia.
Bake Ernest of Saxe Coburg—one of the
British Royal Family's .German relations—is a
nice man to know. He compels his wife —-a sister
of the Grand Duke of Badea—to know all his mis-
resws and receive them, and, not only that, but
to look alter them when they are iitl! Mot long
since one of them died in jthe Duchess s arms at
qice. After this we do not wonder so greatly at
the loyal grovellers making such a frantic row
aoout the commonplace virtues of the Queen,
Mortimer.Fraukiyn’s estate hasj.jast rea-
lised 8:f i in the £, in Victoria, and with their
share of the spoil in their hands, the Benty
Brothers are once more on the road to unbounded
*fHuencs. As ior the poor exiled Mortimer, he
is pining away in Gr quare. London,
aurrounaed by (jukes and duchesses, and the
nobility in general, who are charmed with the
exqu site refinement and cordial ponhomie of this
truly representative Australian. Old m n Park s
Is right—honour does not consist in paying, 20i
in the £.
h x-bank -manager Holt is In a very bad
i (state of health, and is still confined in the hospital
at) i/arlmghurst gaol. There seems to be littse
, doubt that the unhappy man’s imp i onwe t has
ieen to him an exceptionally fearful ph> sical and
mental ordeal, am that; ware he an i fife ider o
not such high degree he would, ere now have
oeen liberated. If the e tatemei ts con. emtng
olts physical crdltion are nut exaggerated, it
is a moßt cowardly and unjust tning that he
should be treated with more severity than the
ordinary tick prisoner merely because the prison
department is afraid of facing hostile criticism.
At present it looks as if a man may have too
many friends.
Melbourne Age office was largely repre-
sented among the esudidates for the editorship of
the International Exhibition Calendar. Two of
David Syme’s flock ware amongst) the six from
which the succe sful candidate was chosen
Scotch M’Fia, who runs tha Leader, and
Il barnian Williams, who used to boss 'he Age
reporting -taff and no w c intributes to its oolum s,
ran neck- md neck for the billet. The pote
Jo hu* Luke, B. A , t' eatrical-agent and burni* »>
lUh of Melbour e Punch, au alleged oamle
piper was also on the war-path, The p-inti g
co mmittee wera equally divided on the subjecr
of «n editor, and the Monro gave his casting-
vote in favour of the Highland M’Fie.
Sir Henry Wrendf.<rdsly, Q C., who has
decided to settle, in Sydney, seeming’y fared no
better at the Victorian Bar than did (he late
Sergeant Sleigh The fact of a man having warn
a full-bottomed wig and been a “chief ” among
Fijian savages, or having come from England with
a bit of black rag sewn on top of his wig doeW<
m >ke much matter in this beastly country. Sir
Henry had one big brief ia Melbourne and that
was in re bank-inspector Parkes, who was kill'd
ia the Windsor railway accident) and whose rela-
tives estimated the value of his life at £lO 000 ;
but a jury of 12 thought thab no living Parkes ;
oould he worth more than a quarter of that,
ame u fit, anyhow, and no persuasion of Wren
fordsly’s could iuduce them ro give a cent more.
Nut for Munro, i f Melbourne, Foster, of
Sydney, and other water-swillers to crack. Miss
Scarth, who vends whisky to pressmen in the
Argu3 Hotel, Collins-street, Melbourne has been
trying to get a license for a new pub at the corner
of Collins-str et and Queen-street, fer which she
is to pay £3830 a year—more than the screw of a
Supreme Cou t judge.
A man named Swan has been committed
at Melbourne for wounding his wife. Mrs. Swan
admitted that she might have been in the habit
of taking out a photo of another man and kissing
it befo e her husband, and saying, “My dear
Squatter Jack, how I love you.” Swan’s aot is
wh.t is called at Tcorak, “a cowardly and un-
provoked assault.”
The mining boom la still going on. Mr.
Dalrymple, a well-known commission-agent a'
Melbourne, committed suicide the other d*y by:
taking “ rough on rats.” Cause : Depression,!
consequent on unfortunate mining speculations.
In other words, there was a slight discrepancy
between the assays made before the mine was!
floated and the actual crushings after the com-
pany started work.
At the opening of the new Auckland (N. Z.)
dock the other day—it is said, by the way, to be
the fourth largest in the world the following
incident is said to have taken place. A local
naval volunteer was fraternising with a seaman
belonging to H. M.S. Opal. Said the volume- r,
“Thais a bloomin' big dock, alnb it.” ar (de-
precating y) : “ Weil, not so doomin'.” Volunteer
(his local pride having received a jar) : * Not so
bloomin’ be bio wed, You never saw a bloominer ”
New South Wales is threatened with a dire
calamity. 01*1 Jack Robertson, who the other days
was given £lO,OOO by a grateful people and turned
our into the poli ioU gra-s-p»do ook, threatens to
reenter public life in the N.S, W. Legislative
Assembly, with a view to saving his bleeding
counts y. 7he language of debate, ha says needs
refining, and he is the nan to refine it. By the
way, when Old, Jtck gets into a particularly bad
humour, tne Reform Club always make it a p ini
to give him a dinner. The o- her day, when
Lcrd Coring ton had enraged the ancient warrior,
by omitting his name from the list of invitations
at a Government' House Centennial dinner, the
Reform Club got up a banquet to Sir Jack
-horny afterwards the Kuigh 'of Clovelly called
upon Lo;d Cariiigioa, who humbly apologised aDO
explained that the *d been cue to a
mere oversight. Old Jac’ «J„ it didn't matter a
bit—they had given him -Mi d sight better
dinner at his club. Sir John has at least seven
birthdays every month at the Reform Club.
POLITI CAL
POINTS
Ia it true that the resignation of Mr.
Varney Parkes, M.P, and architect, as a member
of the N, S.W. Legislature, is not unconnected
with the State-House architectural design awards ?
It is alleged that the reason of Mr. R. P.
Abbott's retirement from the NSW. Upper
souse is that he ob jects to sit in an assembly dis-
graced by the presence of a certain person lately
sppo need as a member
“Reading,'' says My Lord of Verulam,
‘maketh a full man ” If this is true, some of the
present N S.W. Ministry must have worried
through every book In tt e Free Public Library,
from the cellar to the garret
S|dney E. News ii coming p;und very
nicely indeed. It now says: “Thermal Proteo-
siontst however much mistaken in his economio
views he may be, is a very different being from
the counterfeits who simply make Protection a
shibboleth.”
Mr. Mad J. Haynes claims that the
N.S.W. native party “goes straight for foreign
trade " It may be so, seeing that the foreign-
trade party has even imported its spouters in the
persons of Pulsford and Downing —ex Mayor of
Penzance—both now chums.
Mr. C. L. Garland, member for Carcoar,
NSW,, threatened to resign his seat a few
moni hs ago on the ground tbab he was not rich
enough to devote his time to Parliament. He has
eince made a few thousands in mining, and will
re' a’n his place in the Assembly.
The International Congress of Trades
Unions this year in England meditates schemes of
international labour-co-operation that may in-
fluence European politics very considerably. The
workmen »re all utterly hostile to war, whioh
they know is only waged by the Governments to
keep back Sccialism,
At the annual dinner of British volun-
teer officers Lord Wolseley took occasion to refer
to the N AW. Siudan .Goat-Slayers, and said that
their appearance was splendid and their equip-
ment complete. This- jogs our memory. We
notice in pawashop-windo in Sydney several
Soudan war-medals fer s de.
“ Those of us who are attached to the
Empire are in possession of authority and of
almost all positions of influence. But we never
forget the existence of the disloyal party, and it is
because of the existence cf that pa-ty that we are
so emphatic in our demonstrations of loyalty.”—
Premier Gllies, of Victoria, to Lord Half-crown
Bratscy.
“ The Separatists ” is the name by which
the S.M. Herald now calis the Irish Nationalists
who want to have their own Parliament, like Vic-
toria. Forty years ago the S.M. Her 4LD sneered
at the Port Phfllip patriots just in the same way.
But the Phillipians separated for all that, and got
cn so well that old Jack Robertson has it in his
heart to exterminate them root and branch.
The Church Emigration Society is a gang
cf greasy crows who are using their religion as a
cloak for doing the diri y work of tte British land-
lords. They send cut batches of ruined and
plundered tenants, sickly, seduced servant-girls,
and to on to Australia, along with particularly
discontented people who are agitating “ at home.”
A baieh came by the s.s. Orient on Ist March.
The Griflichian Brisbane Press, daily and
weekly, keeps earning the money-support P.<alm-
yeli the Pure and his colleagues have put up for
it by persistently running out the lyirsg old chest-
nut that M Ilwraith is a syndicate man who has
run the country in the interests cf British capital.
l‘ll wraith has not, and never had, a single share
in any British company that has spent a penny in
Queensland. That s straight, and it’s more than
Psalmyell or any of his colleagues can say 1
At the Native Congress at Madras it waa
boldly stated that England had ruined every
Indian industry with her Brummagem Free trade
imports, had degraded the masses to a pitch
where sheer starvation was their da ly companion
and death their only friend, and that India could
have no hope so long as the status quo continued.
Dufferin has resigned bis Viceroyship became the
sickenir g spectacle of the plundered country and
oppressed people Is too much for him. At the
India office they are talking about coercion.
Judge Heim thus cackled over Wilfred
Blunt, M.P., when he came to dismiss his appeal
against the imprisonment ordered him under the
Irish Coercion Act: —“ The appellant is a gentle-
man moving in the front rank of society, a rela-
tive of one of our distingui-hed statesmen, the per-
sonal friend of another cor netted by the de treat
i«s to a family of illustrious descent—none more
illustrious -himself highly educated, a man of
glorious impul-e and refined feeling ” At d then
A* nn sent B unt to wf-ar the broad arrow and
pick oakum with burglars.
M liwraitii will open the electioneering
otmpaig shortly in B* t hane. The reason of his
iience hitherto is the dodging of Griffith It is
ihe immemorial custom everywhere of the Premier
so announce bis policy first, and the leader of the
Opposition to follow on, G iffi h s perpe'ual idea
L to “ dish ” his opponent by ou -b ddiig him on
every popular item of his platform, and here Is
Psa myell the Pare hanging about like a Trades’
i nionist “ rat ' in seasch of a billet, who waits
to hear the other man make his offer and then
cuts in and chops him down.
We read that some of the former fellow-
ffioTS In tbe 53rd Regiment of Surgeon Major
C/oss, who was hanged for wife-poisoning at
0 rk the other day, offe ed to pay a las tribute
of their feelings toward* the lord of shandy Hall
r»y hanging him with tin ir own hands They
looked on le as u» be«om{» g »ni fit ter and a gen le-
man to slay a defenceh s wo*, an wi h * R ugh
oa Rsts” These gallant gentry, nowever, seem
to have little co on purse it n in turning de« repit old
women and naked children into tne snow f om a
mud cabin in Ireland wnen the gilded absentee
landlord wants bis rent.


C-p cc kb/ W/Mn
y\ Alt/r'f^ ( r & 1
2. Off to Sydney with a “ bag
of specimens.'
3. “ Here, I say, just assay this here stuff for me and form •
sindykit, will yer ?”
T. AaRrctrLTtfBALrST: " 0, bother 1 This land ainfc
no good ; I can’t make nothing grow on it Blow’d
if I don’t float it into a mine. Wonder I never
thought ot that before t”
/,fria uf irit
J3u s •fjo v ir \
'Vc- 1 ’
—6. - Something tangible in the
way of a nugget in the Jjndow
not ft bud idea.
I'll just paint
one ot these
here hits of
road -metal.
/, Meantime,
the “ sindykit ”
goes about put-
ting ’‘a few per-
sonal friends on to
, a good thing,”
6 Tremendous success I The
“nugget ' displayed in the window
of trie Busted Boulder Mining Co.,
Limited was a great draw. The
daily papers mentioned it.
L/UHTArioNS
«£*> V
#t?v
<mw
* *°'e. :
%
// JS? OO'KJ 7~AB*- S'
< Jfyi/C*tr2> '(/S - <X?uS/a cd ctAouf
Up ‘Voter /ec<%ej-s / A/e/P tfy n,e
p rt,3 6uo ctpcS yoct poy A a *sa. ? op > "
k//- r J yL/ca>CL n- 1~» s'
- 8. while the owner of the land goes about
<■ “ keeping mum ’* generally. He washes
himself now and wears a plug-hat, for Ilia
stocks go up—np—-up I
9. The public come
merrily forward to be robbed in broad : daylight*
10 “1 Bay, here's a lark! One of our shareholder
to-day, after buying £20,000 more scrip, asked where-
abouts this Busted, what’s-his-name mine, was located I’’
*' Whew !. We had better clear, hadn't we ?" “Clear ; HO
,fear 1 It's a perfectly legal transaction."
11. We have seep the -plant- of the “Busted
Boulder," and if you will take our iip» you will staJKl
.from under, /~/o /6
"T he Busted Boulder Boom.


The Crowa Priuce Conundrum.


frecklebare.
The unparalelled success of this preparation in removing
Freckles Tan, Sunburn, *c., has already caused a number
Of unscrupulous persons to place worthless imitations on the
market. Bet» are of such, and see the written signature F.
Moore Clements, in red ink across label. Reject all others
or get it direct, post free for 2s. lOd. in N.S.W. stamps,
from Washington H. Soul and Co., Pitt-street, Sydney, or
the inventor F. Moore Clements 141 King-street, New-
town, N.S. W. Please report all cases of attempted substi-
tution, when immediate legal proceedings will be oom
uenoad by F. M. Clements, Newtown, N.S.W *
The progress of the Fine Arts is most marked, and the
nation that fails to prooerly upp eciate the productions of
true attssts must eventually lose prestige and accordingly re-
cede into a so ile lower than the cultured nation that en-
courages real merit. Venus of Milo, The Consultation,
Love Blinds and two or three groups showing in Bray
Bros windows, in George-street, would grace any of our
homes.*
niaremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney.—A private Medi-
cal and Surgical Home, eatabliahed be Dr. Tarrant, for the
reception and systematic treatment of patients of both sexes.
The residents, who are provided with separate bedrooms,
derive the great advantages of a oonstant medical super-
vision with the oare and attention of a trained nursing staff*
For particulars apply to the Lady Superintendent *
J. B. Pack's and Oo.'s Bangle Brand smoking Tobaooo la
the moat delicious smoke in the world, acknowledged by all
csnnolaaeura to be the moat dslloate in flavour. Prepared ao
that the oombuation la perfect Burnt out to the laat
particle with pure white ash. Ty it
Society
That gilt-adged lady “ Mrs. Gordon-
Baillie,” is a-going of it in England. She has en-
snared the susceptible Stead, editor of the Pall
Mall Gazette, who lately gave her two columns
of an interview, even as he did our own Sir Saul.
The lady is still posing as the Crofters’ fiiend, and
the more that is known of her the more extraor-
dinary it appears. Mrs. Gcrdon-Bail ie is’a proof
of how easily the world can be gulled, especially
by a woman with any pretensions to good locks.
It Is not known for certain whether she ever saw
a Crofter, or was nearer to Skye than her native
town of Edinburgh; yet in Australia she bam-
boozled a great many worthy people with the idea
that she was a confidential emissary from the
down-trodden associated fisherman of Skye.
“Give mo but land,” said Mrs. Gordon-Baillie,
“ and I will bring them ont en masse”—and she
forthwith promised to people our coasts with a
hardy population, who would provide us with fish
on almost as reasonable terms as she would wish
to have got the land. Lent would no longer be a
time of real fasting for the poor Roman
Catholics, but of feasting on garfish and on
mullet, on trumpeter, and on bream ; in fact, on
all the most savoury fish of the Southern seas.
How much, too, wonld the mental faculties of
young Australians be developed by such a diet 1
Mrs. Gordon Balllie burst up in Australia rather
ignominously, having to very quietly go away as
a second-class passenger. With all her cuteness,
and even though she was championed: by the mild
and genial Batters, and though she spent long
hours of close conversation in trying to persuade
him, she could not induce the Victorian Minister
of Land’, Mr. Dow, to grant ler one single acre ;
and it was tha same in all the other colonies. Yet
the Pall Mall broadly publishes the statement
that Mrs. Gordon-Baillie has, on behalf of the
Crofters, 70,000 acres of land in Victoria, and all
she wants now is tha money to bring them out,
which, however, she may find rather hard to get*,
as the career cf this remark sbla lady is becoming
pretty well known, f-he has shed the rays of her
charms over many pressman ; the man does not
live who could refuse her a par, when she ran him
down in his den. The simpering Phil. Robireon put
Mrs. portrait in a sooietyjcurnal he
wts edliiDg, but Phil, was always a faithless dog,
and a lady who professed to handle some of Joe
Clarke’s money seduced Mm from all his otter
allegiances and caused him to abandon his Aus-
tralian tour. Mrs. G -B. has been very much
married; she was at one time associated with a
well-known tenor, and claimed to be Ms wife. A
yotng man who travelled with her in Australia
as her secretary was, it is alleged, legally married
to her, but nobody in Australia seems to know
who Goidon-Baillie was. There was, however, a
worthy sea-captain hight Bobirs son, to whom
some 15 year» ago the Crofters frier d was married
in Melbourne. This husband sailed away to the
South Seas and Davy Jones's locker. His widow
went to Auckland and opened a boarding-house
and a school there, but soon disappeared to turn
up at the Antipodes, after these long years, a 3 a
great and wealthy philanthropist. When taken
to the N.S.W. Assembly, and while Sir Henry
was treating her to fizz, the other knight,
Sir John, told her plainly that she was a humbug.
Mrs. Baillie brought to Australia this trip two
lovely chi:dren whom Sir Henry Loch nursed on
his knee during a concert at Melbourne Town
Hall. Mrs. Gordon-Baillie is almost as mysterious
a peisonage as Mr. Walter Besant's “ Herr
Paulus," and, like him, she has had her rise and
her greatness, and her political fall is near at
band, and even though backed up by admiring
pressmen she will shortly disappear once more
into the depths cf obscurity from which, by the
aid "of a certain fascinating impudence, she has
managed to push her way.
a v #
D<ar Bulletin,—To say that the great
mass of Sydney women ara oyer-fond of liquor
would he as gross a libel as to say that the great
majority of Sydney married men are gluttons and
wife-beaters. Still, there was a certain element
of truth in the memorable statements made by
Bmhop Barry concerning colonial ladies’ love of
liquor, for hundreds of Sidney women are hope-
less drunkards I happen to be an attendant at
a city restaurant ard to see every day queer
sights bearing on the ghastly drink problem. For
example, one singularly beautiful lady, well-
krown in society, turns up almost daily at
the establishment) where I earn my livirg and
drinks, “ to her own cheek,” as she puts
it, a couple of small bottles of champagne
right off Then, while in a state of semi-
daze, she proceeds to paint and powder
her faca and contemplate I ’ own loveli-
> ess at the mirror for an hru or two. A
i ourg relative of hers wio d e not yet seem to
have learnt how much better it looks to order
two small bottles of champagne separately, goes
in for a big bottle, which sne drinkß alt but a
glass or so, and “ ca’ls for the rest at two
o’clock ” Another well-known soe’ety lady, a
somewhat ingenious tippler, is a bouncing woman
who drinks neat brandy out of a jjreen glass
to make psorla bell-ve io is hock instead of
Me Then the'e are a couple of ve y well-
known young ladies, whom eve > one has seen
on thn block for years vast who are to me,
perfect marvels as imbibers. What do you think
of a pa<r of sweet creatures whose uniform order
is two “ double brandies” (2s. v-orth) and a
bottle of lemonade, and who consume this quan-
tity twice over at a sitting which does not extend
over mo* e than three quarters of an hour ? These
are a few of the secrets of the “ ladies’-room " I
here say nothing of drink as it affects what is
conventionally spoken of as “ morality," and
I need not expatiate upon the bibulous
feats of the dissipated old hags with silk or
satin dresses and yellow complexions, who are
notoriouslv (past redemption. Everybody, I pre-
sume, imagines what they are capable of. How
muoh of the old pre-nuptial romanca lingers, as
far as the husbands are concerned, around the
person of tha woman with the ever-vinous breath
—ihe woman who drinks ?— Alma.
* * *
Outside the very bull’s-eye of Melbourne
Sassiety there Is shocking indifference on the sub-
ject of “Tummy’s” silver-wedding present, for
the great heart of the people can't raise a loyal
throb nohow. Enthusiasm began and ended with
that select meeting in the Mayor’s official back-
parlour, and the committee then appointed (con-
sisting of “ Lady Clarke and all the other ladies
present ’) meets twice a week in solemn state, to
acknowledge the receipt of two disconsolate
'‘fivers” and a reluctant “quid." As matters
stand at present, about 30 per cent, of the people’s
loving tribute is likely to come from about ten
grovellers with something stuck in front of their
names, a result so shrewdly anticipated that it
was arranged not to publish a detailed subscrip-
tion list ! Tummy is to receive his trophy as
coming from his ma’s faithful subjects in Victoria,
without being given to understand what a
duned few faithfal subjects the old lady
has got. The Morning Post and St.
James Gazette will crow over one more
proof of Australian loyalty ; the Times, perchance,
will touch upon the Prince's personal popularity
wherever the English language is spoken, and the
Marquis of Salisbury will tell a Tory meeting how
the colonies dote upon the Royal Family. (Loud
and prolonged cheering.) Thus the miserable
worm of Imperialism crawls Its slimy way along
The one satisfactory feature of this silver-wedding
imposition is in the unexpected ridicule of Mel-
bourne suburban councils - When a local Mayor
rises to mention tha he has received a letter from
.Town Cierk Fitzgibbon, respecting a souvenir for
His Royal, &o , &c , the council desires him to
take the epistle as read and oonvert it into pipe
lights. It must bs a very, very rank grovel which
can make any town council sick.
* * •
A story comes from Auckland (N.Z.)
about our copper-ooloured old friend, Tawhiao,
the Maori king, which Is quiie on a par with hie
Intrusion, attired in a nighvgown and a short clay
t ipe, and carrying a candle, into a London draw-
ing-room full of ladies, to ask for “ a box of
matches.” During a visit paid by him to Auckland
| a “ sooibty ’’ damsel gave a grand al fresco enter-
tainment in his hononr. Long tables, piled with
choioe eatables, were arranged on the lawn. The
first trouble arose through one of the ctaie's in tlie
king’s retinue being supplied with a blue claret-
glass, while those before the king and other chiefs
were red. The punctilious old savage noticed
tH t a Herald reporter had a’so a blue glass, end
con idered that thera was some * ccul ii suttlnfhe
distinction, "'hi- difficulty w«s happi : y tmoot ed
Over by giving the chief a silver cup that a pig of
the host’s had w f nat a cattle show Then
Tawhiao distinguished himself. He helped him-
self to about a couple of pounds of seductive-look-
ing ice, and intioducad an immstsi spoonful into
hit capacious mouth. His feature! w*re a study.
Tears started from his eyes and trickled down his
taitooed cheeks, and then, with an exclamation
of disgust, he expectorated the oold mass over the
snowy tablecloth. Miss C has not s’ncs gone
in for entertaining Maori chiefs.
* * *
Rumour says that Mr. F. A. Packer, of
Hobart, has composed an operetta, “ fc“w<-et Sim-
plicity,” which will be produced shortly at the
local Government House. It is said to partake of
the character of opera-boufFe, and is to disprove
the current ides that this composer is only happy
in melancholy subjects “Sweet simplio'tr,"
" Blood-and-gorio," and “ Spoonio” are the lead-
ing characters. The latter name is alleged to fit
the proposed tenor as perfectly as his own crease-
less garments.
* * #
The wretched N.S. W. Public School infants
who were made to howl idiotic choruses under a
burning sun to give greater e'cldt to the Centen-
nial “ Rejoicings," and bribed to do their heat by
the promise ot a coin, have not yet received the
expected shilling.
• • *
Mrs. Malaprop, of the Point, was referring
recently to the affection felt by a certain gentleman
for the wife of his bosom, and concluded effu-
sively, “ Why, my dear Miss , he just analyses
her!’’
* * *
North Queensland social item :
Mr. Lawson, P.M., was married the other day at Burke-
town to Mits Cripps. The ceremony took place at the
Queensland National Bank, and as the road to be traversed
was along a quarter of a m-le of water and black mud, the
bride was cairied in a sedan-chair by four residents. The
bridesmaid defied her shoes and stockings and waded.
Poi ring rain and abundant champagne were the order of
the day at the wedding breakfast.
* « *
While the Melbourne grovellers are send-
ing round the hat for a silver-wedding present to
Mr. and Mrs. Tummy, Molesworfh Greene,
brother-in-law of Lieutenant Governor Stawell,
has been writing to the papers, proposing that the
coin should be devoted to endowing the Girls'
Hostel at Trinity College, Melbourne University.
* *
The fates were against a prominent Hobart
citizen who took his dog for a run one Sunday
morning lately, instead of passing the plate round
In chtrch. When returning home, the dog chal*
lenged another canine specimen on the threshold
of a house occupied by some notorious members
of the demi-monde—not 200 yards from the church
he regularly attended. A fight ensued between
the animals, they yelped, bit, and rolled all over
the footpath, and finally the Btrange dog darted
through the open door closely followed by bis
antagonist. Then women's Bhrieks mingled with
howls and yelps, and our hero was implored to
come and separate the combatants. He hastened
to the rescue, after a lengthy application of stick
induced his dog to let go, and walked out of the
house just in time to meet the folks who wor-
shipped in the aforesaid church. ‘ Seeing is
believing, you know. 1 ’ He attempted to explain
the situation to a few acquaintances, but although
they said little they looked volumes, and he knows
they regard that dog-fight as pure fiction.
* * #
Novel “cradle” advt. from the S.M.H
BLANK.—February 18, at her husband’s residence, Blank*
ville, Blank-street, Blankston, the wife of J. Blank, of a
daughter.
At “ her husband’s resldenoe.” This is a new way
of putting it.
• * #
The Wairarapa paper (N.Z,) straggles
with the old problem, “ What shad we do with
our boys ? ’’ and this is how it sizes it up
If the boy is tall and thin, make a jockey of him; if large
and strong a rawing man or a pugilist.- Once their was a
time when those great in arms, in arts, and song, took the
cake. But we have charged all that and Society now bows
the knee to the successful jockey or the lucky pug. Not long
ago a jockey, who had handed in his own chucks, was buried,
andfa Prince of the Blued decorated his coffin with a wreath,
and the same jockey had often earned more in a day than
many accomplished, hard-working, honest men earned in
five years. Continents mourned him. Now a Yankee slog-
ging beast arrives in. London, and the same Prince of the
Blood begs the honour of an introduction and the tear of
emotion glistens in that Prince’s eye as he presses the hand
of the great bullying knocker-out who had been fined for
wife-beating.
# * *
£l2O was subscribed In Auckland to pro-
vide prizes for a day’s athletio sports for the
sailors of the Squadron.
* * *
The Russian princes on the Rbynda have
been feas'.ed at the Melbourne Club. The last
‘ Russian Prince" they en’erla’ned there, some
ten years ago, perpetrated one of the neatest little
swindles ever known in Australia, but the matter
was kept very quiet by the Argus. Jeames’a
name was aomenow mixed np in the affair,
together with that of a well-known acress. whom
the aristocratic Russian, who turned out to be the
son of a Hebrew tobacco-manufacturer, also
defrauded.
* * *
London Society says that In five or six
years 18,000 Irian girls, who had been assisted to
emigrate, sent home a quarter of a million
sterling, “ a great part of which has gone in pay-
ment of impossible rents to absentee landlords."
This <>nd the building of grand “ cath*yderils far
he Kyardinil and Bishupa ” must have lowered
Bridget’s private stocking a trifle, or else her
income must be gr eater than that of a bogus-
mine-floater, or a night-policeman.
* * *
New Zealand possesses some muscular
Christianity amongst her parsons The greatest
football enthusiast in Christchurch is Rev. Thomas
'Hodgson, who, though not a player, is frequently
appointed selector of representative teams. Rav.
J. S. Bill, a bright eyed, rosy-cheaked little
Anglican divine, introduced the Association game
into Auckland last reason, and prays well. The
Sunday following the day on which his club won
the Association Cup he appeared in the pulpit
with two blaok eyes. Another Auckland parson
MRS. GORDON-BAILLIB.
London, March 2.
The Scotsman has published the Edinburgh police record
which exposes the career of Mrs Gordon-Baillie, who visited
New Zealand and Australia, and represented that Bhe was
interested in the Highland crofters She is the daughter of
a laundress, and has been wanted several times for defraud-
ing tradesmen, She received a eentence cf nine months
imprisonment at Dundee.
—S.M. Herald cable message.
Hail, winsome Madame Gordon-Baillie, hail!
The times are ripe for thee ana thine to saunter
As friends of men whose virtues give them gaol,
And friends of women gaunt, and children
gaunter,
Who starve among the heathery hills because
The laws that rule their lives are robbers' laws!
Hail, Child of Soap suds and Box-irons, I,
The janitor cf Humbug Castle, greet thee I
Thy brand of Windsor is a novelty ;
And though the inmates of my housa may meet
thee
With eyes averted, care not, enter in,
And, arms akimbow, give them grin for grin 1
Why should it be that thou who stoodab beside
Tha tuj whtre lathered sairts of humbugs
bubbled,
And sewdst bone buttons with infantile pride
On euffa and fronts and neckbands ehonldst be
troubled
Because of that ? Step in at once ; don’t care !
Thay never worked as well, my Laundress fair l
See ! Let me take thee just along this hall.
Look 1 There he is ! A score of years or so
back
His shirt was in thy mother's tub, and ail
Believed his heart so good that he would throw
back
All bribes and baits to lure him from the fight
Where Right Eternal fights withTemp’ral Might.
His voic3 was strong, his hand was firni, he wept,
His blood was rerdy any day for shedding,
For he had seen white sfcarvi g creatures swept
Frcm glen to hill with neither food nor bedding !
But when they made him Bishop he sat down
And left the wretched orew to swim or drown 1
Fair LaundreES! when he grins grin back at biiii!
I’ll watch from here and laUgh. But look up
yonder!
Thou seest the white-haired man, with features
grim 1
His shirt was in thy mother’s tub, and wonder
Moved ev’ry tints he sent it, for it tore,
Whatever hold she took, behind, before !
That’s he ! Thy little fingers U3ed to stitch
The rents together; he was then the speaker
On all the highest stumps, and his fierce switch
Was made to fall upon the office seeker;
Who, pledged to give the people batter law,
Strode into the first billet that he saw.
That’s he ! He’s now a statesman ; ho has held
High offices, and loDg time since grown over
All need to wear frayed shirts ; huge screws have
welled
A CENTENARY CONVERSATION.
ACTIVE TRADES COMMITTEE-MAN: “HAS YOUR HUSBAND GONE TO THE
MEETING OF THE UNITED SONS OF TOIL, MRS M'GOOGERTY?’
MRS. M‘G.: “HE HAS, SOR.”
A. T. C.: “ WAS HE DELEGATED?”
MRS. M‘G.: “WELL, SOB, IF IT’S DHRUNK YE MANE, BEGORRA, HE WAS SIMPLY
BASTELY.”
To feed him ; he has brazenly thrown over
Both principles and friends, and now maintains
The angry poor are best restrained by chains !
Fair Laundress, gaze at him ! Roll up tby sleeves !
Show him the fingers that wrung out his
cotton !
Tell him the poor man’s friends are mostly thieves,
The stump they spout from nearly always
rotten!
Good-bye, fair humbug ! Make thyself at home
I'm glad to see box-irons hither come !


Among the many impravene its we have noticed in the
oity is that of the well-known and old-established Koyal
Hyde Park Hotel, corner of Bath irst and Elizabeth streets,
opposite Hyde Park, Sydney. The proprietor, Mr. M
Bhalvey. hat ipared no expen e to make taia hotel the first
tn Sydney *
Everybody Bays— and what everybody says oaust be true—
that Pemell s Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is the
beet in toe market *
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
named Richard is a representative batsman, while
still another, Mr. Calder, is a remarkably smart
light-weight boxer and runs a gymnastic olnb
amongst the lads belonging to his parish.
* * *
A young Sandhurst miner received a
severe shock to his nervous system the other day,
and »s now pickling his fists in brine to toughen
them hard enough to pound a man with a thiok
head. The youthful clay-puncher is a Benedict;
he has been ma l rled a few months. He was on
day-shift last week, and was blissfully delving
after crib, when a trucker handed him a note which
had come from the surface. The missive requested
the young hubby to hie him homewards, as a set of
twins had been added to his possession. The Benedict
did not wait to to presse’d ; he made up the drive
■tfith considerable eclat, indenting his head against
the cap-pieces and falling over the trucks in his
impetuosity. Once on the surface, he plunged
into the boiler-houee, ti3d his vest round his neck,
hung his wet trousers in the fire-box, put his
feet into his billy and his crib-bag on his head,
and struck for home at his best pace. By running
down men, women, and children, and perambu-
lators, and turning aside for nothing short of a
jinker, he arrived in time to discover that it was
all a gross lie, and an outrage on the suscepti-
bilities of a youag married man. The discovery
was followed by some plain and fancy swearing,
and then the hubby started for the mine again,
swinging a club. The perpetrator of the das-
tard y insult remains in hiding.
• * *
That remote and historical dependency of
N.S.W.—Norfolk Island -has now a population of
about 800 souls, all descended from the celebrated
mutineers of the Bounty, and a’most all bearing
their names. Nearly everybody is called Adams c£
Quintal or Christian or Buffet, and Norfolk Island
is almost the only place on the fare of the earth,
barring the Great African Dssert, where the
Smiths haven’t got a good hold. The original
mutineers, after seizing the ship, visited Tahiti*
and bore away a number of dusky maidens whose
habits were t)f primitive simplicity, and the
descendants of these have been marrying and in-
termarrying ever since till nearly everybody is
his own grandfather and the relationships cau’o
possibly bo sorted out. The bronzed virgins from
Tahiti handed their colour down to their descen-
dants, and many of the lovely girls of Norfolk
Island aren’t quite white by a long way. Also
they are very hard-up for husbands. Their an-
cestors had to go round and cadge with violence
for wives with seaweed bus Wes, and were glad to
take inferior and damaged females at full market
rates, but the scarcity has long since passed away.
The law which prevents strangers settling on the
island is rough on the young ladies ; it is invari-
ably relaxed, it is true, in the case of a man who
ma ries a Norfolk Island girl, but many a pro-
mising youth who might wed ono of them if he
were only allowed sufficient time to think, is
bounced oub by the remorseless law before he gets
so far. Still, Norfolk Island isn’t half a bad place
for a hard-up British nobleman to go to. When
a girl marries she gets 12J acres of land, which is
always worth something, and the island grows
the most innocent race of heavy fathers on record.
Many of them at the age cf 10 or 50 have never
once been outside their own little settlement, and
they are just howling for some impecunious swell
to came along and take them in.
Oar old freind, the Duke of Edinburgh,
whose washing-bill has been outstanding over 20
years in Auckland, N.Z M had received from the
British nation, up to the end of 1887, the sam of
£506,883. His present income from the taxpayers
is about £30,000 a year, and he is heir to a similar
amount from the duohy of Saxs-Coburg, while his
wife, the heavy-feeding Russian Grand Duchess,
has a revenue of £ll 250 a year and a private for-
tune of close on £400,000. This impoverished pair
have a free residence at the expense of the hoble
British taxpayer in Kent, and Edinburgh was
accustomed to part about £lO annually, with
much inward anguish, to the local hospital. On
his appointment, however, as figurehead of the
Mediterranean fleet with a huge salary, he wrote
to the trustees, pointing oat that, as he no longer
resided in the county, they couldn’t reasonably
expect him to subscribe any lorger, and that
astounded body proceeded to take Edinburgh’s
bull-dog cognomen off the list. The Duke atill
collects his annuity from the nation, though he no
longer resides in the country, but then Edinburgh
out collecting is a v.;ry different thing from some
one else out trying to collect from Edinburgh.
People who have made the attempt will be pre-
pared to take an affidavit on this before any re-
spectable justice of the peaoe or commissioner for
having things swore to, or any other public cffioer.
The Sydney D.T. abates that “ the
Queen, in acknowledging the receipt of the
Jubilee address from the womtn of N.S.W., ex-
presses gratification at their remarkable display
of loyalty and affection.” This seems kind of
rough on the “ ladies” of the same colony who
prepared a little thing of their own apart from the
“ woman.” Either they are ignored altogether or
Her Gracious lumps the plated publican’s consort,
whose bicepular development is not unconnected
with exercise at the bear-engine, with the lower-
class females, and refuses to recognise any dis-
tinction between the wealthy cheesemonger s wife
and the lojal slavey who flaps her dish-cloth to
the soul-s irring strains of “ God save the Qutsen, *
The various town and city Councils don’t
“catch on" to the Prince of Wales's sliver-
wedding boom with any display of avidity. The
other day the Flemingbon (Vic.) Council ca3t cum-
in-inications relating to that great event into the
W.P.B. with such seditious levity that the Mayor
felt called upon to upend himself and rebuke them
for their disloyalty. There is just a possibility of
a Mayor getting a C.M G.-ship, but a councillor,
never. The latest refusal to contribute to the
fund comes from Kew. Councillor Wilkinson
called the movement “a farce ’ and said that
probably the only person who would be pleased
would be the great Fitzglbbon, the Town Clerk,
Recorder and Mikado of Melbourne. The Mayor
said he had carried a subscription-list in hia
pocket for a week and shown it to scores of rate-
payers, but got never a cent for Tummy.
A nice young man of an original turn of
mind was brought up in Melbourne the other day
for having obtained £2 103. from a poor widow on
the strength of a promise to prooure for her the
THE HEIGHT OF POLITENESS.
IMPATIENT LADY: “HOW MUCH LONGER AM I TO WAITI GIVE ME A PENNY
STAMP IMMEDIATELY.”
BOY: “ALL RIGHT MUM. WILL YOU HAVE IT LICKED?”
deeds of her husband’s grave. Of course the
nice young man with a flue turn of humour ad-
hered to the money and said nothing about the
deeds What surprises us is that after having
spent the former he didn’t go and occupy the old
man’s grave and turn him out.
• * *
At Melbourne, Mr. Bishop has married
Miss King. You don’t often hear of the Bishop
taking the King.
* * #
A Melbourne lecturess excitedly enquires
“ why women don’t,smoke your beastly tobacco ?"
Don’t know—suppose it’s because they can’t talk
acd smoke too.
* * *
Par. never seen in a Sydney newspaper :
“ A pleasant gathering took place at Mr. Brown’s
grocery store last evening, when Mr. Smith, the
manager, was presented with an illuminated ad-
dress. Mr. Smith replied in a few wall-chosen
words."
• * *
The Rev. Lewis Price, an English country
rector, has religious scruples about the morality
of dancing beoause he “ never heard of Mosas, or
the Prophets, or the Apostles giving a ball,”
That's trus. And he never heard of Moses charg-
ing pew-rents and collecting tithes, or of the Pro-
phets sending round the plate, or of the Apostles
wearing whit9-chokers and hugging choir-girls in
the vestry. It's an odd thing that parsons can’t
discuss the propriety of any modern dissipation
without lugging in old Moses—a gentleman who
rests under the grave suspicion of being a Biblical
“ Mrs, Harris,’’ A lot of us believe there was no
such person at all.
* * *
An advertisement from Melbourne Age
“ Man, young, wants learn pressing.” He must
be a very young man. Why, when we were—
bub no matter.
• * *
Lady L takes “ sevens ” in boots, and
Miss L— bakes “eights.” Rather rough on
beetles!
* * *
“ Christian Israelite ” writes to a Mel-
bourne paper stating that Hebrews live longer
than Christians, and he wonders whether this is
because they keep their rest-day as a rest-day.
Well, not exactly, Christian Israelite. If Jews do
live longer than Gentiles it is beoause, as a rule,
they don’t do hard work themselves but wax fat
on the tollers. Also, because they seldom put
their strong intellects to any greater strain than
is Involved in the getting of Interest or the
trading off of shares at an advance. And, finally,
because a large proportion of Jews have two rest-
days, or pleasure days, every blessed week, and
never devote them to drunkenness. If the sons
and daughters of Abraham (nave you heard Joa
Sym s' lecture on that pa'rlarch ?) didn’t eat
quite so muoh they might live till the day of
general resurrection.
* * #
Rev. A.. G. Campbell, one of the
patriarchs of Presbyterianism in Victoria, has a
son practising as a barrister in Melbourne
Campbell, fils appeared for the plaintiff in a recent
divorre-suit, and succeeded in cutting the knot
which papa had previously tied. This usefal
family supplies the pizon and its antidote.
* * *
Speaking of the recent marriage of a Mrs.
Lloyd, the Moruya Times (M.S.W.) says: “ This
lady was the relict of cne of the ill-fated party
that disappeared at Bermagui, so by her marh'age
and consequent change of name, a prominent re-
minder of that mysterious disappearance is re
moved. Of the widows of the other members of
the boat’s crew one has for a long time been
married to her second husband, while the other
has shuffled off this mortal coil. Should the mis-
sing men ever turn up again, safe and sou id,
there will be some lively scenes down Sonth.”
* * *
The late governess to Lady Loch’s daugh-
ters was married last Thursday, at Christ Church,
South Yarra. The Gov. gave the bride away,
and his young ladies assisted in holding her up
during the ceremony. In was originally arranged
that the House of God should be sacred to “friends
only,” but a number of vulgar nobadles-at all
gained admittance on the “never.” This rather
alarmed Lady Loch until she found that the
intruders were quite harmless and never attempted
to bite.
* # *
Melbourne Princess’s reeked with blue
blood on the night of Billy Elton’s benefit. Grand
Duke Michaelovitch sat between the Lochs in the
centre of the Rile Box, while a distinguished
background was composed of Manchester, Nor-
manby, the Misses Loch, a Russian naval captain,
and the everlasting crowd of high-toned flunkeys.
* * •*
Melbourne ladles will please note that
etiquette requires them to make a Court curtsey
—to the very ground, my dear —on being intro-
duced to the Russian Grand Date. If they
haven’t been initiated into the mysteries of that
bow, we would advise them to stoop slowly until
they feel the bustle touch the carpet, keeping the
eyelids drooped meanwhile. Michaelovitch is a
vastly different kind of Dook *o Manchester, re-
member. And he is a grand-looking fellow, with
a colossal moustache and a frown like Mount
Cook.
* * *
Overheard in Sydney Royal on a vice-
regal command night: “ Don’t the aides-de-camp
look suite!"
* * #
Vice-regal Is not necessarily regal vice.
Not always.
* * *
A neat little scandal in connection with
one of the Australian Vice-regal courts will cul-
minate next month.
# * *
No Judge’s daughter need ever despair of
getting married while there is a briefless barrister
I at) the Bar. Pa always gives his son-in-law a leg
np.
• * *
New South Wales’ biggest toady is one of
her biggest usurers.
* • *
Why didn’t somebody give a big dance in
Sydney cn the 29 ;h February, so as to enable the
girls to make the best of a chance which only
ocmes once every four years ?
* • *
It isn’t a nice subject, but the tmth must
be told. The other evening a very exalted lady
went to a certain theatre, and when she got home
found on her neck three magnificently lively,
puce-coloured entomological specimens. This is a
hint to managers.
• # *
A well-known Australian lady, the other
day, renounced the vanities of this wicked world
and entered a convent. But, before immuring
herself, she had just one little flutter. She backed
a double—Cranbrook and something else, Cran-
brook has come off.
* -ft
One blight, calm evening last week, the
sort of evening when the thoughts of the muni-
cipal taxpayer seem to be irresistibly drawn to
the contemplation cf loftier things, three ladies
were progressing along College-street, Sydney, on
their way to bitoh a melancholy omnibus. Tvo
of them were young and pretty; the third was
dubious, like a “ faked-up ” Jubilee coin or a politi°
cian's cheque, and, in the ordinary c rare ecf things,
this 58 year old piece of damaged goads was shoved
to the front by the other two when a nasty, means
horrid male thing came sidling up to the party.
‘' May I see you a little dlstar ce along the street,
my dears ? ” said this individual in insinuating
tones, trying as he spoke to got a peep under the
veil of the gorgon in the van, whereupon the lady
addressed waved a large umbrella and replied in
a cracked bass voice: “ Base, low, mercenary
wretch, how dare you address ladies in the
street?" The remark fell with a shock on the
unhappy citizen. He had taken her for flve and-
twenty. But he pulled himself together and
bowed with a sweeping gesture. “I beg your
pardon, madam,” he said, humbly ; “ the fact is
that I am waiting for my—aw—mother and my
two unmarried—ahem—sisters, and in the uncer-
tain light I mistook you for them. I owe you an
apology, Ido indeed.” The precession came to a
full stop in the effort to smother its wrath,
and the lady in the van took stock of
the stranger. Ha was 45 if he was a day ; his
taeth were false ; his hair was dyed purple, and
his mother, if he had one, must have been aged
78, and must have looked 20 years older at the
least from sheer misery at being related to such a
spectre. Strong language, she felt, would be
ihrown away on such a walking ruin, and she
dropped into cordiality instead. “ Yonng man,”
the said, in honeyed accsnts, “persevere as you
lave begun and you will prosper. Always meet
your mother and sisters in the street. It is a rare
mark of virtue when a youth pays such courteous
attention to his female relatives ; also meet your
maiden aunt at every possible opportunity, and I
have no doubt that I will one day sea you in a
very elevated position. Meet your grandmother
hleo as often as you can. Good-bye, young man,
gcol-bye,” and with that the trio went thought-
fully on their journey, leaving a badly broken-up
dude leaning against a lamp post and looking sad
end very sick. It was the first time he had been
received that way, and he didn’t know what to do
about it.
Lord Carington, as the official repreaentatite of
the fount of mercy, and as assistant Pre-eminent
in Grief, has been graciously pleased to commute
the death-sentence passed on a poor wretch named
K ellas Watson' to imprisonment for life, the
first three years in irons. There is something
beautifully English and logical about this system
of piiing wanton torture on a convict who is con-
signed to a living grave, and Lord Carington
might think the matter over—if he has anything
to think with— and see if he can’t fix up something
in the way of mutilation as well to make the ar-
rangement complete.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Roller
Flour, and your bread will be as white as sno v.
A POEM FOUNDED ON FACT.
There is a young man in Kew,
Who on Sundays has nothing to do ;
He wouldn’t for fish go a bobbing,
He wouldn’t in bars be hobnobbing ;
Much more fun he thought it than drinking
At the girls in the choir to be winking.
He’d a voice that was something sublime,
And he sang in the choir all the time,
Till one day he committed a scandal
That you wouldn’t believe of a Vandal.
It was hot, but the choir stool in wonder
When that young man he struck a note under ;
But he took off his coat
To ascend that top note,
And he sang in his shirt-sleeves , by thunder!
There is still a young man in Kew,
Who on Sundays has nothing to do ;
So you’ll see him for fish go a-bobbing,
And in bars like a fiend be hobnobbing,
For he now thinks it more fun to be drinking
Than at callow choir-girls to be winking.
The cause of thi* was—when the coat-tale was
stated,
The young man was promptly excommunicated.
The moral is—never mind how you perspire.
Don't take off your coat when you sing in the
choir.
The Member for Mud.
(A. BALLAD OF “FREETRADE")
Ia the Fourth rate Estate sure he started along
As a friend of the right and a foe of the wrong ;
He cared not a straw for the rich or the great,
All who pandered to fraud he proceeded to slate.
He worked like a Trojan to fossick out crime,
Anddenounceditinlanguageprofuse and sublime •
A spade he called spade, and a spud he called spud,
Till he started in life as the member for Mul.
His diction was worthy a Billingsgate fag,
Mixed with eloquence cadged from the primitive
lag;
Though a Freetrader straight yet he slated poor
Parkes,
And sketched Jaynial Dan playing all sorts of
larks,
While he spread himself out to upend his owld
ohurch,
Till his organ piped small and got left in the
lurch ;
Then he grew under Parkes a political bud,
And by eating his words became member for Mud
Next he trotted out figures and wrote to the press
That Protection was clothed in Papistical dress,
And that, all things considered, “ To Hell with the
Pope "
Was his suffering country’s last refuge and hope ;
And he hied him away with a red gory shirt
And spouted around till it trailed in the dirt ;
And his Billingsgate rolled like a sewer in flood
Till the Chinese brigade made him mem v er for
Mud.
Now the member for Mud. is a promising lad ;
Though he hangs on to “ Sirs ” still he says he’s a
Rad.
He is ready to lie very lo w for his Queen,
And trample the Bine In the dust like the Green ;
Bat on one solid point he’s a Rad , I'm afraid,
For he’ll vote like a brick that the members be
paid—
This, at least, is an instance that he has done good,
For that Act will extinguish the member for Mud.
PATSY B.


Dr. Aifeed Agassiz, member of the Royal College of
Burgeons, England, L.M.R.C.P., registered in Great Britain
and by the Medical Board of N. S. Wales Specialist
in diseases of the hidneyB, bladder, skin, blood, and
nervous affections. Dr. Agassiz has made these diseases a
special study through life, and . he has had the very great
practical advantages of a large private as well as hospital
practice not only i n Great Britain and America, but the Con-
tinent of Europe Consultations either personally or by
letter. Eldon House, Phillip-street, near King street,
Sydney.*
GERMS CAUSE FEVERS.
The germ theory of disease has received farther
support) ff)m the researches which a scientist of
the United States has instituted into the ciuses of
the terrible mortality recently prevailing among
fresh water fish in some parts of the American
Continent. The mortality among the perch and
otherflshof LakeMaadota, Wisconsin particularly,
had been extraordinary, the fiEh dying off in
enormous numbers. Prt fessor Forbes, of the Illi-
nois Stam College, has reported that diseases due
to the minute spherioal microbe or germ, whose
diameter is only about the 1-25 OOOfch part cf an
inch. This germ he discovered in the liver and
the kidneys of the diseased fish. There it forms
abscesses which ultim a* ely destroy the calls of those
organs, and therewith the life cf the fi?h Pro-
fessor Forbes says that there are various species
of this germ, and that they attack human beings.
The different varieties cause specific diseases, such
as fevers, small pox chicken-pox, hog cholera, and
so forth. It is a well-known factthat in aninfected
locality only a portion of the inhabitants are
ed with, say, typhoid fever. And the answer as to
why this is so, and whioh is reasonable is,
that the resisting, or antipathetic power in some
constitutions is greater than in others. What is
this pow'er 1 It is simply nerve force. And for
just this reason it behoves ever/ man and worn in
to keep his or her system in the best potsible con-
dition to resist disease, and no better plan can
be employed than to take Warner’s safe cure and
safe pills to keep the nerves of the system in sound
order, and able at all times to perform the work
put upon them. The deaths from typhoid fever
in the colonies is something alarming. It has often
been called, and very appropriately, “ c ilonial
fever. ” Much of it however, oan be avoided
Cesspits ought to be abolished:; water and milk
should always be boiled during typhoid infection
to kill the germs; perfect cleanliness of the person
must not be neglected:; isolation of typhoid pa ients
should be Insisted on ; all excreta should be burned.
The important feature, however, is t) keep the
system in such rude health that it will neutralize
the evil effects of such germs as may be breathed
into the lungs or taken into the stomach through
liquids, and thus escape disease and death. We
have pointed out how to attain this result, and
hundreds of instances prove our theory sound.
Were I on suicide intent
With pistol at my head,
Or o'er the foaming torrent bent,
To leap into its bed,
E’en then I could be resqjjed by
Some friend upon the biink,
Who’d whisper in my ear the cry,
“ What will you take to drink?"
“ Sfi. Louis Lager Beer," I'd yell,
In accents wild and clear,
There’s naught oan soothe
Parched bowels like
“ St. Louis Lager Beer." *
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
office.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Aot of Parliament, 37 Via,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital , ... £l,OOO 000
Paid-up and Guaranteed Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRTCKL AND, K C. 8,, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH R ATES of interest for LONG TERM
deposits.
BANK DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under 12 months.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payab'e to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HA US’-YE ARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its enti'e real and personal
property, including Ps uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
NOTWITHSTANDING fall in Bank Rates, this
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing
£7 per cent, for 3 years 1 With Cash Bonus if renewed
£ ( > „ „ 12 months I at me rats of £1 per cent, per
£5 i, ~ 6 months j annum, or withdrawable on
£1 ,i „ 3 months J noticeintermsof prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “TENMINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post fre a.
The Company solicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments over terms of years.
Chief Offices : Corner King and Elizabeth
streets.
To Tobacconists and Storekeepers.
Read this announcement. It largely affects
your interests.
CRAIG lITKEN,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR MER-
CHANTS AND IMPORTERS,
680 and 682 Georgk-stbebt, Sydney,
HAVE a Stock replete with almost every
known brand cf Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and silver-
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarebte Holders, Walking Sticks,
Cutlery, Perfumery, &o.
CRAIG & AITKEN.
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
SPECIAL LINES.
m
ARMY AND NAVY,
. For SMOKING or CHEWING,
Is still the most popular Brand in the Market.
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG, AND AITKEN.
FINE AROMATIC VULCAN RUBY, 11s., 145.,
p.p.’s, 7s. : TWIST.
cur TOBACCOS.
VULCAN MIXTURE (American), finely flavored,
best value in the market. J-lb. packets.
AMERICAN ROUGH CUT RUBY, and LONG
COT, in lib packets. Finest quality.
CIGARS.
EL TORO BREVAS, exquisitely flavored.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LUTE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality!
CRAIG & AITKEN.
HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
Special attention devoted to this branch.
Saloons fitted out in first-olass style at a very
moderate cost. Parties starting In business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
Inconvenience and delay. Orders, enclosing P.O.
Orders or Cash, promptly attended to.
Pay Particular Attention to the Address:
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Wholesale Tobaooo and Cigar Merchants and
Importers of Hairdressing Requisites,
680 and 682 G9orge-street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Sole agents for the ARMY AND NAVY
Tobacco and Cigarettes.
Prioe List on Application,
BUSH SONGS
Ed. Bulletin, —A back number of The
Bulletin contain 3 a very interestiag contribution
on the above subject in which the writer quotes
an excellent sample of the peculiar lyric 3 beloved
of the bushman. Perhaps in time to come it mi
fall to the lot of soma one to collect the 11 sabre
c ats of Saxon speech ” which, bearing the stamp
of originality, have had their beginning by thß
camp-fire and in the hut away in the remote out
posts of settlement known as the “ back-blocks.
During the writer’s early experience of these re
glons—over 20 years baek —when the papulation
wu made up of a very mixed and wldsly-
dlvergent agglomeration of humanity; wha
the ‘old-hand'’ elemenb j ist beginning
to die out—was leavened with the admix
ture of new ehunhood and growing bush
natives, the popular songs covered a wide
range of subjeots, from the “homely pathetic ’ o
concert-hall melody, to the “ O.d Bullock Dray,’
the “Broken-mouthed Saepherd, ’ or the effasio..
—generally with a rattling chorus -of some bush
poet. Among the latter the localised parody o
gome popular song—with plentiful personal allu
sions—generally gained a wide popularity. In the
station-hut, during shearing time, at the horse
or bullock-driver’s camp, or cut on the ran when
stockmen gathered by the fire, within ken of the
bellowing herd, the song, jest, or tale—not always
cleanly, but none the less enjoyable—was heard
at its best. The “Stockman's Grave’’—which
I first heard at a sheep-washer's camp in 1865
—was a great favourite. Who knows but that
its pathetic force may have given Lind-
say Gordon the key-note for his “ Sick Stock-
rider?” A roughly-written copy of this lyric
(whicn I picked up at sn abandoned camp) was
signed “Leith Hay,’’ but whether that is the
author’s name or not ij open to argument. Eliza
Cook’s “ Sailor’s Grave ” was in great vogue about
this time. Numerous versions of “Old Grimes,”
localised, and “ John. Brown s Body ” were also in
high esteem. Tne Celtic element was noticeable
in such obscure eff iskni as “ Th 9 Grand Conver-
sation on Napoleon arose,” and I have heard a
Tipperary man with fiery gesture and strident
voice bring do vn the hut with what appeared to
be a rhymed itinerary in which the mo3t anti-
Saxon sentiments were expressed, and the
doiegs of a certala “ Gallant Mioba:l Hayes”
were greatly eulogised. The following is leavened
with the prevailing bush etiiies, wh’ch perhaps
jet survive in certain quarters :
“ And we'll saddle up our horses and away,
For we U duff the f quarter's cattle in the dark-
ness of the night,
And we ll brand ’em in the dawning of the day.”
At the “Crossing” public house, or shanty, where
teamsters “ most did congregate,” I have heard
an improviaatorial “bullooky” win great applause
with an al fresc> version, cf which I caught this
Ecrap :
“0 my boys! bullock driving’s very funny
Until you break two bullocks’ necks
And get stuck in a gully,
And then yoa know—you're bound to go,” &c.
This gentleman varied his vocal efforts with a
fanta ie on the penny-whistle and a violent (-top-
dance which so captivated his fellow wielders of
the long greannida tnat an impending fight sud-
denly collapsed and the debt of honour was frater
nally liqr i laced at the bar. At the station-hut,
and during shearing time where a very represen-
tative gathering of bushmen was to be found, the
nasal quaver cf the “ old hand ’ mignb be heard
as he vaunted the glories of some old-time bush-
rangfr :
“ Who was hnnted-up and down, my boys,
Lika an old-man kangaroo,
But I'll fight ’em tea to oae, says he,
Says Bold Jack Donohue."
Or, perhaps, as he gave a doggerel reminiscence
of th 3 ill-famed island-prim a denounced in
“ Frank, the Poet’s,” scathing valediotl m as
“ Squatters’ home and prisoners' hell,
Land of Sodom,-fare thee wel',”
where
“ They yoked up like horses,
All in Van Disman’s Land.”
Runaway sailors formed a strong item of the bush
population in thorn days, and, as a consequence,
nautical songs (Che original article), redolent of
the forecastle—the very antithesis of Dibdin’s
stagey produc ions—were frequently heard, The
“old shell" soon assimilated the ways of bush
life, and many a time has the hut mug in spon-
taneous chorus as he told —nesd'cssly—how
“ The song was composed when the watch went
below,
Bound away in the * Dreadnought ’ to the West
world we’ll go.”
Or, as with many and emphatio thumpings, ho-
mo destly—sang :
“lama hero stout and bold,
I’ve a long time ploughed the ooean ;
I’ve ploughed it over and over again
Far honour and promotion.
'Tis many is the battle that I have been in
Aboaid a man o'-war and a merchant again,
a nd all the harm that ever I dene v
Was the c sorting of the glria both old and
young.”
In those days, when the colonies were inundated
by yourg men of liberal education and of what is
called good families, probably a higher average of
intelligence obtained than is to be found among
the bush population no v a-days. The “ Jacka
roo ” or, to use a euphemism, the “ Cadet,” was
to be found on most stations—generally samples
of the “ne’er-do-well” class, who were expa-
triated by relatives in the vain hope that self-re-
liance would be a result of the rough experiences
of colonial life. Many of these, subsidised
to remain abroad, were brainless young vil-
lains who drew their remittance with a re-
gularity that was only equalled by the celerity
with which it was dissipated at the nearest
shanty. A few knuckled down to the reali-
ties of altered existence and gradually sunk
their early associations amid the “ rank-and-
file” in which they had become absorbed. A
young fellow of this latter class was sheep-droving
with the writer away in the “New Country”
north of the alligator-line, during the early
Sixties. Having brought discredit upon the judi-
cial wig of his father (a Scotch law lord) he found
himself a remittanoe-man in the back-blocks at
the time of which I write. A truculent-looking
young scamp with the head of a prize-fighter,
who was respected by reason of his “scien-
tific" attainments, which, however, he seldom
exhibited. He was the soul of the camp,
and a champion drinklng-man. At the
first station on which he was employed
the bent of his genius took the direction of satiri
cal parody, levelled at the station super, who, by
the way, was nicknamed “The Duke.” Here is a
specimen of lyrical melange—as it oocurs to me —
which I have heard him voice to an appreciative
and sympathetic audience of drovers, washers
shearers and “ knockabouts” on the “ burst" —at
a wayside “hotel”:—
“i’ll sing to you a rough old song made by the
Lord knows who,
Or very likely by the last bran-new-chum Jackaroo.
To think that he could find himself no better thing
to do,
Than make songs cn his super—and on such a
super too— ,
As this fine Australian Nobleman all of the
present lime
“At his slab and greanhida mansion he sits with
ease so grand.
In gravest consultation with his official band.
There's Bill, the under-super, and N 's the raw
new-hand,
And Mick, a limestone nigger-boy—a native of
the land,
This fine, old Australian Nobleman all of the
present time.
About where he's going to lamb-do wn he argues
very deep,
And how he’ll pull the ehepherds for a-losing of
their sheep,
And how he rode a hundred miles in thirteen
hours or lass ;
And on his return the station was in a (sanguin-
ary) mess.
This fi ie Australian Nobleman all of the pres ent
time."
“ Then success to aristocracy,
And down with d—»n demooracy,
Tha noblemen out here, I see,
Are few and far bstwean.
So we ll drink to the one we’ve got, my boys,
With a full and flowing pot, my boys,
For he’s a clever feliow,
And that’s easy to be seen.
No trace of the “Senior Wrangler” or classical
feripo3 in the above, so thorough l y did Lord N ’s
—as he wa3 familiarly known - possess the faculty
of adaptation. I have porposely withheld his
tame, as possibly his tough frame still survives
tha assaults of a thousand sprees* and I am not
The Bulletin’s fighting-editor. Here is the tale
of his owa earlier colonial experiences, as the
memory of many “harmonious” nights spent in
his company supplies it
There is no mistaking the truth of this rude picture,
which doubtless was the secret of its popularity
in the sphere to which lbs author had been rele-
gated by the iron hand of circumstances. Some
years later, during a trip “down South,” I heard
the familiar chorus, “ Tm a Jackaroo,” awake the
island echoes from the fore-cabin as the old
Boomerang made her wny through the Whit-
sunday passage by calm moonlight. And perhaps
its grip still holds even wb ere the genus Jackaroo
has become obsolete in thei big baby colony of the
North where the lron-horsa has well nigh extin-
gutshed the good old creed expressed In the
“Bullooky’s ” parodied refrain—
“ There’s not a traveller comes my way
Bat always gets a feed,
While I drive old Yellowman In the pole
And Bailey in the lead.”
“GAMBASH[?].
There are signs that the same “ religions”
Influences which acted under the Freetrade flag
at the last N.S.W. election are coming into force
at the next general struggle In Queensland, The
Premier’s father holds high office in the brother-
hood, and parson Wcoluough is ready to howl to
the fall extent of his £BOO a-year. Thank heaven
the working men of Brisbane don’t care one s'ngl<
straw for the lot.
Messrs. M‘Giegor, Harris, and Co., of
Sidney, have presented a splendid silver cup
valued at 500 guineas, to be shot for in a series o '
annual rifle competitions extending over 12 years.
The contests will be open to all nations, but mu Vi
take place on Australian EOil, The cup, which is,
perhaps, the most valuable trophy ever giver
away as a shooting-prize, la. a magnificent
work of art, and is about 4 ft. high. Among
the figures engraved upon it Is a striking image of 1
Parkes in a former state of existence, before he
‘ jumped up whi e pfeller. 1 ’ He has very little
on, and carries a bundle of spears.
Writes a correspondent:—“ Melbourne
society was agitated to its inner singlet last week
by the marriage of a certain Dr Hooper to the
Governor’s governess. The dooto ■is Scotch, and
28, more or les3. Mrs Hooper is Swiss, and old
enough to know salt from celery. Three years
ago Dr. Hooper, who is, no doubt, an able man,
held a small appointment; now he occu-
pies a house in Collins-street at a rental
of a good many hundreds a year. The
wedding was one of the biggest advertise-
ments a medical man ever had on earth. The
Grand Duke Michaelovltch was there, and gave
the bride a diamond horse-shoe brooch. All the
members of the “ push ” were there, and the
wedding presents, if mortgaged, would keep the
happy couple going for two or three years. But a
great many obiter people, not ia the “ push,” were
asked to the wedding and breakfast. Bohemian
members of the Yorick Club seemed strangely oub
of place among the snobs and snobesses of Toorah,
Many lady patronesses of charities were also con-
spicuous ia the church. These were asked, it is
whispered, in ord;r to secure influence and favour
for Dr. Hooper s election as one of the msdical
officers for the Woman’s Hospital. De vr Lady
Lo ;h was pushing the matter amongst her cirole,
and after the wedding many ladies ster ed
actively canvassing on his behalf.
“ Australia's ” Monster Consultations. Ascot
Yale Stakes, run March 3rd. The Sydney Cup,
run Easter Monday, April 2nd. Each 3000 sub-
scribers 20s. eaoh. First horse, £1 500 ; second,
£600 ; third, £300 ; starters, £300! non-starters,
£300, divided amongst them. Tne Australian
Jockey Club Plate, run April 7th, 1888, 3000
subs , 10j. eaoh. First horse, £730 ; stcond, £200 -
third, £100; starters, £150; non-starcers, £150,
divided amongst them Also one hundred cash
awards of £2 each. Please apply early, and
registrar all letters to ensure safe delivery, Ad-
dress, “ Australia," care of Mr. H. Dalveen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, Gaorge-strest, Svdney,
N.S.W. *
“THE ‘JACKAROO,’
“ Whan I arrived in Brisbane I thonght to cut a
dash,
Bat I was very soon pulled up by the shortness
of my cash ;
I mat a Northern squat ber who slid that he'd
take me
For forty pounds per annum a Jackaroo to be —
I’m a Jackaroo, just ooma from tha old coun-
trea,
The squattars here they need not fear that
tbay can humbug me,
When I gob to tha station I saw the super there,
‘Hallo !’he says, ‘my Johnny Raw, what the
d 1 brings you here ?'
And then I draws mys elf right up, as straight
as I could ba,
‘ I’m here,’ I says, *to do twelvemonths', a
Jackaroo to be,’
For I'm a Jaokaroo jusb out from the old
countree,
The squatters here they need not fear that
they can humbug me.
“ O, first he sent me driving a nasty, jibbing
mare,
He told me that she’d pull the dray without
any trouble or care,
But she stuck me up on the road, and I began
to holler,
When up the super oomss—and calls me a blank
bank crawler,
And a jumped up Jackaroo just out from the
old countree.
The squatters here, I’m free to swear, have
got the loan of me.
“ O, next he sent me shepherding a fighting flock
of rams,
And next I went a lambing-down to fetch home
the green lamb 3 ;
But I coulda’t find ’em green—for lambs are
mostly white,
And sure enough I lost myself away in the bush
all night.
Such a stupid Jackaroo just come from the
old countree,
The squatter s here, I greatly fear, have got the
loan of me.
“0, next I went off siding with a beastly bullock-
dray,
And next he sent me riding with rations all the
day,
And then he sent me cleaning out a dirty lamb-
ing yaTd,
A rouseabout from this to [that my case was
very hard.
A luckless Jackaroo, just come from the old
countree,
The squatters here, I greatly fear, will be the
death of me.
"Now, all day while I’m shepherding and taking
of the sun,
I sigh and wish within myself that this ere
lambing was done ;
For the flour id is bad and the tea is bad as
well,
And I wish that Northern squatters and their
stations were all in h 1,
That’s the hope of a Jackaroo just oome from
the old countree,
The squatters here, I sadly fear, will see the
last of me.
“ Now, all arriving new-chums, take warning
here by me.
Never go to a Northern squatter bush experience
to see,
For they will u3e you strangely and treat you
most damnably;
You’ll scarcely live a six-months ; If you do,
then beggar me!
The advice of a Jackaroo—not long from the
old countree —
The squatters here, ’tie very dear, have had
the loan of me."


Centrally
situated
* and
ACCESSIBLE
TOAUTHELEADINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL’S IMPERIAL HO
BRISBA^
es
m
nn, Ik
//OIK
7^Wn7//ii l «i
EL
&
w,.
MpiSH
DAN
cti
LL
TO
SOUTH
OF THE
EQUATOR
THE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM TH E
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS Sc.
Private Suites with Luggage loom attaehed for the convenience of Laaies. Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a mapifloent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Gentlemen's Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths. GST COIIIROIAL ROOM.
Intlemen’i Smoking, Beading, and Corresponding Boom. All Letters and Telegrams applying for Apartments will receive prompt attention. G. i. BAOTRIiL.
The Brisbane Telegraph, edited by ex-
parson Woolnough, formerly a par-writer on the
Sydney Echo, Is launching ont in defence of Sem
Griffith with that particularly clerical bitterness
thatonly ex-parsons are able to attain. Wcolnough,
who is Cowlishaw’s fcrether-in-law, has never
been North of Brisbane, and so makes an admir-
able editor for the Calico party of Queen-street,
c
lIIIXIOM
THEATRE
Bole Proprietor Mr. John Sole men
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager ... Mr. A. L. Canard,
LAST 2 NIGHTS OF DICK.
ENTHUSIASTIC AND BRILLIANT RECEP
TION of Our
THIRD GRAND PRODUCTION,
A NEW and ORIGINAL COMIC OPERA,
Entitled,
DICK.
A PERFECT FURORE
from the rise of the curtain to the conclusion cf
the opera.
One CONTINUAL ROAR of LAUGHTER and
TUMULTUOUS AFELAUSE was the result.
Business Manager Mr. Joe Davis,
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALt.
George-street, Hajmarket.
Proprietor and Manager .« ... Mr. Trank Smith
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.80,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers,
Under the Conduotorship of Mr. Chas. Austin,
Sittings as Usual.
Tmbatrb royal
Under the Direction of
Meiiri, Williamson, Garner, and Muigrere,
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Laiar,
Remember ONLY 2 MORE PERFORM VNCES.
THIS (THURDAY) EVENING, March 1,
lOLANTHE 10LANTHE,
written and composed by
W. S. GILBERT and Sir ARTHUR SULLIVAN.
Prices i—Dress oirole, ss. i Stalls, 3s. j Circle, Is.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison,
Doors open 7. j Performance 8. j Carriages 10.30.
GO AND SEE
IN THE RANKS IN THE RANKS.
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
and
Miss KATE BISHOP.
Prloes, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nloholson's and Co.'e.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager,
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUND
GARDEN PALACE.
OPEN EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING-
SKATING.
SKATING.
SKATING.
SKATING
The largest and finest Skating Rink In the Colony.
Large stock of new Amerioan Skates.
Look out for the
GREATEST NOVELTY EVER WITNESSED.
Admission: GRAND STAND and GARDEN
PALACE, 2i ; GROUNDS, Is.
The Whole Grounds illuminated by Electric
Light.
ALFRED WYBURD. Manager.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM, BATHS,
and PLEASURE GROUNDS.
GIGANTIC SUCCESS of the PALACE
SKATING RINK.
THE GREAT SWIMMING BATH, 100 ft LONG.
Finest collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
ENTERTAINMENTS every AFTERNOON.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission Is. Children half-price,
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 8.80.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
OX WELL-KNOWN ARTISTS,
Artistically and Numerically the Stronobst,
Under the Conduotorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is, Children free,
FRANK SMITH, Dlt«otof,
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket,
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington,
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO.
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER
FIRST APPEARANCE THIS WEEK in this
HALL of the CHAMPION ATHLETHS,
JACK BURKE, the Irish Lad, and JIM
FOGARTY, the Sydney Lad.
YOU must COME and see for YOURSELVES
AND tike my ADVICE and come EARLY.
AUSTRALIA’S QUEEN.
Orchestra Chairs, 3s.j Stalls, Is.; Balcony, Bd
THE GREAT TOJRAK ESTATE,
corner of Toorak and Glenferrie Roads, TOORAK,
WILL BE
SOLD BY AUCTION
IN VILLA AND MANSION SITES
on SATURDAYS, 11th and 18th February next.
TERMS t 10 per cent, deposit; balance, 3,6, 12,
and 18 months at 6 per cent.
TITi.E, CERTIFICATE.
Solicitor to the Estate t
I W, H. LEWiS, Esq., 95 Collins-st W , Melbourne.
Surveyor:
LLOYD TAYLER. K,q , 53 Little Colllns-st, W.,
Melbourne.
Auctioneers in Conjunction,
MUNRO & BAILLIKU, Collins-st,, East,
P 8. TUCKKTT, Collins st. West.
THO 3. F. CUMMING, Corner of Collins and
William Streets.
J. J. BRENNAN, Grattan-st., Carlton.
From whom plans and all particulars oan be
obtained.
The Hon. T. F. Cunningham, M.L.C., Austra-
lian Club, Melbourne, will purchase allotments on
receipt of instructions for country buyers who can-
not attend the sale at the lowest rates.
THE land is the best ever yet submitted by
subdivision around Melbourne, and it is
admittedly the acme and perfection of the most
fashionable, the healthiest, the most charming,
and the most romantic spot of Toorak, whioh, it
is needleßS to say, stands without a rival amongst
the suburbs of Melbourne. The Estate, which is
surrounded by Mansions, has a beautifully pano-
ramic view. For accessibility to the City the
Estate excels all other fashionable residential sites.
By road it is about miles from the Post-office;
by rail it is considerably less. The Glen Iris Rail-
way branches off from Burnley, and after travel-
ling one mile and three-quarters reaches the Rail-
way Station to be erected on Mr. Ferguson’s pro-
perty at the Glenferrie-road. This St ition is two
minutes’ walk from the GREAT TOORAK
ESTATE. By rail the City will be reached from
your breakfast-table comfortably in fifteen
minutes. The Toorak Tram, now in oourse of
construction, will take you from tho heart of the
City to within eight minutes’ walk of the Estate
for Threepence, and the omnibuses from the Tram
Terminus to Malvern pass the Estate. Gas and
water laid on. Drags and Conveyances will meet
Intending purchasers at South Yarra Station.
DR. RICHARDS.
Send for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURE
for all Nervous Diseases ; price, including post-
ages. 6d. in stamps. Consultation oosts nothing,
and the Dootor will tell you at once whether your
oase is curable or not. Address—
DR. RICHARDS,
7 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities In
“ Evening News.” Address, “ Tattersall’s," care
of George Adams, Tattersall's Hotel, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe deliveryj
also enolose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other tor result of drawingi
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
Opposite Railway Teb minus, Spencer-street.
VISITORS pationialcg the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
will find all modern imrrovements. such as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
room, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
and needle baths, passenger elevator, electric
bells, telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not
to be surpassed in Australia, Visitors can rely
upon being called for early mornir g trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate.
PETER WOODS, Owner and Proprietor.
" They fit perfectly, and ar
far superior to all the othe
Corsets I have triea."
Signed Marik R6ze.
THE
Y*N
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not split in the Seams no
tear the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Com
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita
tions. Every genuine Y & N
Corset stamped “ Y & N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116.
in oval.
Three G-old Medals I!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
OLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
T-TT-pn BBIGHTON OF IT.B-'W-
Ar the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers. Private Dinners, Evening Parties, &e., are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining HalL Besides having a most recherch§
dinner, you can enjoy from the baloonies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable oan be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and picnic parties provided, 2 a
de Hotc at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her visi-
tors comfort able, and her Hotel the best in the Colony.
MRS. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
ofposith ooran bkaoii uni
CENTENARY UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION, 1888.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, EXHIBITION BUILDING.
WILL BE OPEN OPENED on MARCH 14th by HIS EXCELLENCY Rt Hon. LORD CAR-
RINGTON G.C.M.G., &c , Governor of New South Wales; Under the.auspices and the
patronage of Lieut Governor Sir ALFRED STEPHEN, C. 8., G.C.M G ; The Hon. Sir HENRY
PARKES, G.C.M G., and the Members cf the Ministry; His Honor Sir FREDERICK DARLEY,
Chief Justice; MAJOR GENERAL RICHARDSON ; Sir WILLIAM MANNING, K.C. MG.; The Horn
J H. YOUNG. Speaker of Legislative Assembly; The Right Worshipful tha MAYOR of SYDNEY
and ALDERMEN ; The Hon. R. H. D. WHITE, M,LC„ Executive Commissioner; P. FLETCHER
WATSON, Esq., President Academy of Art, Fine Art Commissioner,
o:o /
M, LEON CARON has been appointed Musical Director. Under his baton his Cantata (expressly
composed) wi l be performed on the opening day.
0 : o
The buildings have been declared as bonded stores. Protection of Patents exhibited will be gazetted.
APPLICATION for OUT-DOOR and Ann eve Space received until MARCH 1. For further
Particulars apply to Exhibition Building. H. B. HARDT, Secretary,
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and. Echuca,
"Victoria-.
THE CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO,
tg the most fashionable Spring, Autumn, and
Sommer resort in the Colonies,
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladies Drawing Room, Private Sitting
ftoqmn. Every Convenience and Attention,
First-class Hotel Servioe. Accommodation for
100 Guests. Gas, Eleotrlo Bells, Billiards, Bal-
conies, Baths. Beverages Iced.
Ik I. Spig l Si.,
PROPRIETORS,
LATE OF
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
THE PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, is the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEAKING’S
30 years’ experience as a Public Caterer is a
guarantee of the Comfort, Convenience, and Con*
sideration all Guests visiting him will undoubtedly
reoeive.
Private Apartments. Private and Publio
Baths. Aloook's Billiard Table. Largest Baloony
out of Melbourne. Unsurpassed aB a Winter
Resort for Invalids,
J. 1. E, Sparing,
PROPRIETOR
CJOLLI.NS-PLACE, COLLIN a-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
Onmfnrfa bo Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters assd Telegrams
Comfort to Visitors, p j omptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513.
MRS. M. COLES, Propristiiss,


SAVE MONEY BY GOING TO LAWLER’S
DURING THE FEBRUARY SALE.
Hat and Coat Racks, extraordinary value, from
4jd each
Cornice Poles, with ends and rings, extraordinary
value, from 3s. lid. each
Bedroom Toilet Glasses, extraordinary value, from
2s. lid. each
Excellent Clocks, extraordinary value, from ss.
each
Butler’s Wood Trays, with stand, extraordinary
value, from 13s. 6d. each
Effective Oil Paintings, extraordinary value, from
12 s. 6d. each
Horsehair Cloth Couches, extraordinary value,
from 17s. 6d. each
Cretonne Couches, extraordinary value, from 275.
6d. each
Austrian Drawing room Suites, of 9 pieces, extra
ordinary value, from 160 s. each
Dining Tables, to seat 6 persons, extraordinary
value, from Its. 6d each
Fancy Sitting-rcom Tables, extraordinary value,
from 275. 6d each
Pier Glasses, walnut, with fancy inlays, extra-
ordinary value, from 12s 6d each
Marble top Washstands, extraordinary value, from
19s 6d. each
Dressing Tables, extraordinary value, from 7s. 6d.
each
Toilet Chests, with glass attached, extraordinary
value, from 395. 6d. each
Bookcases, with glass doors, extraordinary value,
from 77s 6d. each
Writing Tables, covered Top’, Drawers, Sex,
extraordinary value, from 355. each
Wardrobes, with silvered glass doors, extra-
ordinary value, from 110 s. each
Chinese Balcony Lounges, very strong, extra-
ordinary value, from 13s. 6d each
Chinese Matting, full yard wide, extraordinary
value, from yard
Hard wearing Fibre Door Mats, extraordinary
value, from 33. 6d. each
Fancy Door Slip Mats, extraordinary value, from
Is. 94. each
Hearth Rugs in Brussels, extraordinary value,
from 3s 61. each
Chinese Balcony Blinds, strong green ones, extra-
ordinary value, from 53 9d each
Superior Japanese Balcony Blinds, very superior,
extraordinary value, from Bs. 6d. each
Window Blinds in Fancy Holland, specially good,
extraordinary value, from 3s, 94. each
Squares of Carpet, various styles, extraordinary
value, from 11s 6d. each
Really Kxcallent Pattern Tapestry Carpets, extra-
ordinary value, from Is 6d each
Splendid Brussels Cerpe”, choice colourings, ex-
traordinary value, from 33. 3i. per yard
Full yard wide Stamped pattern Kidder. Carpets,
extraordinary value, from Is. 6d. yard
Oilcloth for stairs or narrow passages, extraor-
dinary value, from 4d. yard
Lace Curtains—per pair, extraordinary value,
from 3s. 61 per pair
Imitation Madrai. Curtains, per pair, extraordin-
ary value, from 7s. 6d per pair
Tapestry Window Hangings, per pair, extraordin-
ary value, from 17s 6d. per pair
Capital Cheffmrisr Sideboards, extraordinary
value, from 425. 6d. each
Sideboards in mahogany and oak, extraordinary
value, £l7 10s. eaoh
Bedsteads, to combine stretcher chair as well,
with cushions, from 193. 64. each
Really excellent Keyless Stump Bedsteads, 2jft. x
6ft., from 10s. 6d. each
Splendid line in Half-tester Single Bedsteads, 2jtt.
by 6ft, 6in , from 17s. 6d. eaoh
Strong, full-sized Half-tester Bedsteads, from 4jft.
x 6ft. 6in., from 255. each
An excellent Fourpost Double Bedstead, 4jft, x
6ft 6in,, from 275. 64. eaoh
Beautifully mounted Black and Brass Bedstead,
4|ft. x 6ft. 6ia., from 903. each
Astonishing Strong Double Bedsteads, 4jft. x 6ft.
6in,, from 453 eaoh
Wire mattresses—eight different qualities, from
14s each
Exquisite Corner Whatnots, from 11s. 6d. eaoh
The celebrated Java Super Kapok (if small quan-
tities), from Is. lb.
Excellent Wool Flock, 3d. lb.
Palliasses of best straw, 6s. per pair
Flock Mattresses, in fancy tick, full size, from
183 each
Java Kapok Mattress, in best fancy tick, full size,
from 30s. each
Mosquito Net Curtains, In 1201 n. net, single size,
from 103, 6d. set
Mosquito Net Curtains, double size, from 14s. 6d.
set
Beautiful Tea Sets in chinaware and gilt, from
193. 64. set
Very excellent Dinner Service, from 235. 6d.
service
Mikado Dinner Services, from 90s. service
Sets of wonderful value Jugs, from 23. 3d. set
Cups and Saucers, from 2s. per dozen
Filters, and really excellent they are, from ss. 6d.
each
Superior Glass Tumblers, from 3s. 6d. dozen
Boots for Men, Strong Elastio Sides, from ss. 3d.
pair
Boots for Sunday, very stylish, from Bs. 6d. a pair
Lovely coquettish Ladies’ Shoes, from ss. pair
Extra Strong Boys’ Lace-up Boots, from 4s. 6d.
pair
Strong coppertoed Boys’ School Boots, from 2s.
9d. pair
Ladles’ lovely Lace-up Boots, extraordinary value,
from 63 9d. pair
Ladies’ beautiful Button Boots, extraordinary
value, from 7s. lid. pair
Children’s Shoes, extraordinary value, from 7£d.
pair
Boys’ suits in Tweed, extraordinary value, from
4s. lid. suit
Youths’ Suits in Tweed, extraordinary value, from
103. 6d. suit
Men’s Trousers, extraordinary value, from ss. 6d,
pair
Men’s Trousers and Vests, extraordinary value,
from 10a. 6d.
Men’s Tweed Suits, extraordinary value, from
21s. suit
Ladies’ Cornets, immense assortment, extraordin-
ary value, from 2s. lid. each
Ladies’ superior Frilling and Ruffling, extraordin-
ary value, from 54. yard
Ladles’ Print Dress Material, extraordinary value,
from 2|d. yard
Ladles Glovep, rare chance, extraordinary value,
from 2s 9d pair
And after these prices and the list have been
carefully gone through go straightway and make
out a list of your requirements and get them at
LAWLER’S Central Emporium, 608 George-street,
Sydney.
Those who are In the country and would like to
rasp the advantage and ben;fib of purchasing a
LAWLER’S have only got to write in requesting
a copy of the Illustrated General Catalogue to be
sent them and it will go forward by the first post.
Call
or
Write,
f Established 1860.1
LAWLER'S,
SYDNEY
Call
or
Write.
A Special Invitation.
We especially invite a trial by all chose sufferers
from Kidney and Liver complaints who have
failed to obtain relief from other remedies and
from doctors. Nature’s great remedy— dr bell's
bitters- has effected cures in many obstinate
cists. It acts at once on the kidneys, liver and
bowe's, cleansing the system of all poLonous
humors, and restoring a healthy condition of those
important organs. Do not be discouraged, but
try it.
Gloomy forebodings, Sleeplessness, Violent Headaches,
Nervous Irritability, and Heart Palpitation all arise trom a
disordered Liver, and natures own remedy is secured in
Dunstone’s Compound Essence op Dandelion and
Liver Pills. Instant relief, and speedy and permanent
cure. Pleasing to the taste. Is also a certain remedy for
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Lumb ago. Wrapped with
each bott'e are copies of testimonials which will convince the
most sceptical. D .instone’s C mpound Etsence of Dande-
lion, ss. p°r bottle; Liver Pills, Is. par box. Wholesale
agents ; Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney.
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure In effect. This is the only genuine
Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to all kinds
of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal life, and
therefore may be used without the slightest apprehension.
For the extermination of Mosquitos especially, the Insecti-
cide has no equal—as the fumes of the burnt powder, while
throwing off a pleasant odour, are at the same time most
destructive to them. Sold in Is. boxes by all chemists and
storekeepers. Manufactured only by W. Williams,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-street, Newtown. Whole-
sale from Mess's Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser & Go.*
A Lovely and Delicate Complexion.— This is ob-
tained by using Rowlands' ICalydok., an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, ard arms; it removes sun-
ourn, tan, freckles redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and deli-
cate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which ruin
the skin. Rowland s Odonto, a non-grittv tooth-powder,
whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’ articles.
“ DON’T KNOW HALF THEIR VALUE.”
“ They cured me r f Ague, Biliousness and Kidney Com-
plaint, as recommended. I had a half bottle left which I
used for my two little girls, who the dootors and neighbor
said could not be cured. I would have lost both of them om
night if T had not. ; iven them Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters. They did them so much good I continued their use
until 'hey were cured. That is why I say you do not know
half the value of Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters, and do
not recommend them high enough.” 8., Rochester, N.Y
Sea other column.—American Rural Home.
A WISE DEACON.
11 Deacon Wilder, I want you to tell me how you kept your-
Belf and family well the paBC season, when all the rest of us
have been sick much, and have had the doctors visiting us so
often.”
‘Bro. Taylor, the answer is very easy. I used Dr. Soule’s
American Hop bitters in time; kept my family well and
saved the doctor's bills. Three dollars’worth of it kept us
well and able to work all the time, 111 warrant it has cos ',
you and the neighbors one or two hundred dollars apiece to
keep sick the same time.’ 1 Deacon, 111 use your medicine
hereafter.’
A Boon to Humanity. —ln 1844 a therapeutical Inven
tion v as brought before the world, which surprised everyone
in that it dispelled, modified or lessened Pain, the charac
teristic symptom of nearly all diseases. The inventor made
no secret of h'S < iscovery, although at the time Scepticism
raised her head, and people loudly acclaimed it was im
possible that a tingle medicine Cju'ld arrest Pain of every
kind, and oare a variety of diseases t uch, however, was the
fact when Mr. Richard Freeman placed in the hand of the
public his Genuine Chb rodyne. Year by year its cosmo-
politan popularity has increased, till it is now found in every
quarter of the globe and thousands daily, in New Zealand
and other lands, express their gratitude and sens" of security
from the use of this rredicice.—Sold everywhere throughout
the Colonies. Insist upon having ‘'Freeman's” only.
Reject substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark, an
Elephant.*
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-street Arcade.*
Children starving to death on account of their in-
ability to digest food, will find a most marvellous food and
remeay in Scott's Emulsion op Pure Cod Liver Oil
with Hypophobphites. Very palatable, and easily
digested. Read the following testimonial: '*■l have pre-
scribed ‘ Scott s Emulsion’ in oases of children suffering
from wasting and mal-nutrition, and can report most favour-
ably of its good tffi ct; it has been in each case taken most
readily.—W. Perkins, M RC.S., Medical Superintendent,
Burleigh Hospital, England." Any chemist can supply it at
4s. 6d.
A Popu ar Fallacy.
Many people think that rheumatism cannot be
cured. It is caused by a bad state cf the blood,
which deposits poisonous matter in the joints and
mutcles, causing lameness st ffness and swelling
of the joints, and excruciating pains, dr. bell’s
(Kidney and Liver) bitters will certainly effect a
cure. They act on the kidneys, liver and bowels,
stimulating them to a healthy action, purifying
and enriching the b’o rd and eliminating the poison
from the system. Go to the nearest druggist, buy
dr bell s bitters and be cured.
Tq
n.
TUB
LARGEST
m the (olony.
SYDNEY.
Ira
/*■:
BEFORE TAKING,
(MOW un,l
" A merry heart doeth good like a Medicine.” —Proverbs 17-c, 22-v.
CAUNT'S PHOSPHORIZEFiRON QUININE TONIC.
“ REGISTERED,"
Contains all the elements essential to produce health, and
the only preparation which supplies the tissues with
food. It has no equal. It feeds the Brain, Blood
Nerves, Cures Diseases of all kinds, Invigorates the
Mind and Muscles, Imparts strength to the Body, Restores
the wasting life to activity and vigor, makes the feeble
strong, and produces an exhilerating effect upon the
whole system, Removes errors in eating and drinking.
Price 3s. 6d., from all respectable Chemists, or sent
direct from the Manufadjjfirer, Wi F. GAUNT, the
Pharmacy, Camperdown, Sydney.
Beware of Imitatloni, Take M SnbiMtktoJ
ip
AFTKR TAKING.
(vaOM uii>)
OH’;
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken twi
or three times a day j a wlneglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for ohildren.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure seoretions than any other mediolnal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water, For
young people about half the quantity twice a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER,
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and oonsider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. Englandi
Port Adelaide, October SO 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure In recom-
mending Row's Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I oan, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver oomplaint to try them,—
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tam worth, August 31, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned i—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affeotions of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, 3 find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful offeot and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leiohhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
ows
► EMBROCATION
SOLD
EVERYWHERE':
JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT.
BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is saoh an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYTUS, now so
famed throughout the world
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
GUARANTEED FREE FROM ALL POISON-
OUS QUALITIES. NO ARTIFICIAL COLOR-
ING, as the GREEN color is extracted from the
pure green plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you J
READ THIS LETTER, and TRY FOR YOUR-
SELVES.
Messrs E Row and Co,
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you
feel disposed.
I remain, yours, &0.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW 8
STEANK’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others, and equalled by none.
FACTS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
STATUTORY DECLARATIONS.
*‘l, GEORGS HEWETT, do hereby solemnly
and sincerely declare as follows
‘ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water,
and I hope others suffering from the same com-
plaint will be as speedily oured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT
215 Pitt-street.
“ Declared at Sydney, August 12, 1881, befo
me,
(Signed) Wit. Henderson, J.P."
Then try them, and ask for ROW'S STEANB
BITTERS, prepared solely by
BDW ROW and COMPANY.
From a recently-published African book
of travels“ The Egyptian conjurers know how
to render this serpent (the cobra) stiff and immov-
»ble by pressing the nape of the neck with the
finger, and throwing it into a sort of catalepsy.
The ssrpent is thus apparently converted into a
rod or a stiok." This throws a good deal of light
on the story of Aaron and the magicians.
This interesting scene took place the other
mornieg, A man, who looked like a labourer,
was coming somewhat unsteadily down the street
with his poor little wife after him, trying to per-
suade him to go home At last his patience gave
way at being followed, and he balanced himself
wlih an effort, and said, “You needn’t be
thrapesin’ aftur me loike this, now. I tell ye I’m
not goin’home. Is that enough for ye z 1" “Well,
but,” said the woman, “ tell me where ye are
goin .” “ I’m goin' to mass, blasht ye,” was the
reply, and onward he lurched once more.
i fV ?
j/?Apfj£^
F®« THE
TijoT o <jf?Apl|Ef?
T»jE Re-Twcuto pjoTo
“ Are you the defendant in this case ? ”
said Judge Cope to an elderly party who ap-
peared before him the other day on a charge of
assault," “ Ecce homo," replied the elderly party,
striking ah attitude. “ What is your defence ? ”
continued the Judge. "In tcto," said the crank»
striking another attitude. “ £5O and costs for
plaintiff,” remarked the Judge.
Dr. Neild, of Melbourne, the other day
extracted from the liver of a lunatic named
Smith a much oxidised sewing needle, ln. long,
and a German-silver fork with contcrted prongs.
The doctor says he never heard of such a queer
esse since the sporges were eewn up in a live
woman’s body at the Alfred Hospital.
A miner from Broken Hill, fired with its
wondrous promise, thought he detected in a South
Australian capitalist's property the signs of a rich
deposit of ere. He asked the rich man’s pennis*
don to dig for it, acd offered to do the work cn
condl ion that he raneived one fifth of the grots
prooeeds “I’ll think about it," sail Croesnp,
“an’ I’ll see me wife.” Next day he saw the
miner again and said, “I ’ave talked over your
offer, and me and me wife both think one-fifth is
too much to give you; but make it one-fourth and
you can work away." That miner skipped prayer-
fully to a lawyer to get the agreement down in
b’ack and white, and at latest advices was seen
wildly voting against more edneation for the
masses.
Pierce Lsnigan’s contract price for the
construction of Calliope (Auckland, N.Z.) rock
was £89,000. Lanigan is a native of Kilkenny
came to the colonies in 1866, and shortly after
started life as a prospector at the Thames gold-
fields.


o
AOOORDBOJNB, an V7O, iU/o. »afi> i»|-, ITfd, 11/
35/-, SO/-, AO/-, to
Speciality i Patent steel noted Aooordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
ii Patent German Silver Reeded Ao-
oordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
ITOTICE
THE OIT XL."ST
MUSICAL lISTEUMEIT
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
T>EG to return thanks to their numerous
patrons and friends for past favours,
and, at the same time, to Inform them that
on the
Ist. OF MARCH
They will remove to more commodious
premises,
8 DOORS FROM PRESENT ADDRESS,
Where they hope by kind and proper atten-
tion and with a new and complete stock of
Instruments and Fittings, to be favoured
with your patronage.
4
OUR
NEW ADDRESS
5 Doors from Liverpool-street.
i B, S/a, 7/8, 9/6, 10/6, 13/6, 16/-, 17/6, SI/-, IS/-,
80/-, 85/-, 10/-, up to 81S.
Qsnnlne Laohenal Anglo German ... m SS/>
~ ~ steel notes ... m 60/-
7/6, 10/6, IS/-, 30/-, 35/-, SO/-, to 830.
peolalty t Old oopy Violin, with oase, Bow
Strings, Resin and 'V r SO/-,
LOOK at PAST 111 ®JTURE
advertisements' in
“ The Bulletin.”
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
MIOQER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT,
Orders promptly attended to, and all Instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
he oolonles.
Enquiries attended to by return of post)
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET.
SYDHJSY,
Few people are aware of the alarming prevalence
of Kidney and Liver diseases, especially among
those who have arrived at or past middle age. It
is declared on good authority that fully one-half
the deaths in this country are either directly or
indireotly the result of Kidney cr Liver disease of
some sort.
A great majority of men above 40 years of age
are afflicted with some sort of affection of the
Kidneys or Bladder; and these diseases are on the
increase. Persons are often seriously affected
before they know of it themselves, and thus these
insidious disorders get a good foothold before any-
thing is done to dislodge them.
Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, Bright’s disease, In-
continence, Debility, Catarrh of the Bladder,
Albumenuria, &c., are among the many forms of
these diseases. Most of these are very difficult to
cure, defying the powers oftentimes of the best
physicians obtainable, and are pronounced by
many to be incurable.
Physicians state that many forms of Kidney and
Liver disease are very difficult to detect, as in
diseases of this form oftentimes there are no
symptoms of a marked nature. This is one of the
reasons why they are so difficult to cure.
Dr. Bell’s Kidney and Liver Bitters is a specific
for Kidney and Liver troubles, Bladder and
Urinary diseases, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, and
all of that class of disorders.
It cures Biliousness, Headaches, Jaundice, Liver and
Stomach troubles, D.spepsia, Constipation, and Piles
It cures Intemperance, Nervous diseases, General Debility,
Female Weaknesses and excesses.
It is thoroughly reliable, hiahly recommended, works
promplly, relieves at once, and wa* never known to fail.
TESTIMONIALS.
Gents.—l have been troubltd with Kidney disease; there
was also fluttering of the heart—palpitaiion, I suppose—
and I had to lie v>-ry quiet after going to bed At last I
thought I would try a bottle of your bell s bitters I
purchased some at Redford, and took the medicine as
directed, and after using one bottle, I felt no more of the
fluttering heart I got another bottle, and had to take only
one-half of it to be cured. My daughter was similarly
troubled; had no appetite ; could not Bleep at night. I gave
her my half remaining bottle, and she rests as well as ever.
There is no trouble with my kidneys now. I shall keep
your medicine on hand
October, 1886. William Ritter.
Gentlemen—l have been troubled 6ver since I was a child
with Headaches of a nervous character, and my mouth was
full of canker sores—so bad, indeed, that I could not eat;
nor could I rest at night. At last I tried your bell’s
bit i ers, and two bottles have brought me out all right, and
I now feel like a new person.
October 29,1886 Mrs. C. Rose.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
NEW SOUTH WALKS AND QUEENSLAND
PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTRUCTIONS FREE.
LICHTNER and Co.,
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
IN calling attention to their extensive stock of Photographic Instruments, Chemicals, and all
necessary appliances for the use ot Professional and Amateur Photographers, beg to intimate
their Intention of giving FREffi LESSON 3 in the Seductive Art to all purchasers of a Photographic
outfit at their warehoise. The servioes of a competent operator have been secured, and beginners
are now relieved from all anxiety about possible failure. The young are hereby protected from pre-
mature baldness, and the middle-aged from despair.
Cameias
By all the best makers from £3 upward, according to ska and quality.
Leasees
Bearing all the best English and Continental Brands.
Slx-u.tters
Of every description, including the famed “GUERRY,” the best all round shutter
In the world.
THE VERGARA PATENT FILMS AND SLIDES IN ALL STANDARD SIZES.
NOVELTIES BY EVERY MATT.,
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
32 O’DONNELL STREET
AN D LAM
»WT 0 N
TOBMITUBB ana WAMOTOKSa
WAEBHOUBKMIH,
OABiKSIH AKERS, UPHOLSTIKiIRI
4HB
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
SHOW I-cOOMB uni MANUFACTORY
'"■VRINQ »ad O’CONNELL STREETS.
Large stock of pianofortes by tb
. M celebrated makers, new-
tuN and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS Portable, varion
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, In various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety,
NEWTON and LIMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O'Connell streets,
P IV E POUNDS FIFTEEN SHILLINGS BED
ROOM SUITES. —The Economic Bedroom
Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand with
Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and two
Chairs. The lot for £5 Iss.
NEWTON and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionab’e Early English
designs. WA.RDROBE, 4 feet, with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel Rail; TOILET TABLE
with Swing Glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD and Two CANE-SEATED CHAIRS 16
guineas-
NEWTON and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
BENT-
WOOD FURNITURE.
A VERY COMPLETE
ASSORTMENT.
Many quite new designs.
NEWTON and LAMB
— ■■■■■■ ' ■ —.
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and np to 20 feet,
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS, 6xB,
BxB, 9 x 8, 10 x 8, 12 x 8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6 x 8,6 s. 6d ; 8 x 8
9s. ; 9x 8,9 s. 6d. ; 10 xB, 10s. 6d. ; 12 xB, 12s!
6d. ;12 x 10, 15s. NEWTON and LAMB, Furni-
ture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
m ‘
RICAN PATENT
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging spaoti
Vtry Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
Q ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light,
Suitable for Shipboard
and Verandah,
Price very low.
NEWTON AND LAMB,
FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN,
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
LAWN and PARK SEAT S, 6 feet long,
Rustic Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each,
NEWTON AND LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES.
NEW TON and LAMB.
Chairs,
RATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from 155.;
and large variety of Chairs, from 12a. 6d.
&c.; sectal designs, extra quality. Newton and
LAMB, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
C E CHE .8 T
ail alzsa,
from 27a.
NEWTON and LAMB.
UXCEL S I 0 R
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,’
Various Sizes, from 455,
Haynes, M.P., speaking at Newcastle,
said, “ If he were a Minister his equipment would
be a canvas tent, a camp-oven, and a tin-billy.”
John forgets one thing— a cast-iron check.
Of the nine men who formed what wss
known as the “ People’s” Ministry In Victoria in
'62, but’wo remain in the flesh: Mr, (now Sir)
George VerdoD, who is portly, princely, and not
now of the people, is snpe inter dent of a big
banking corporat on; and J. H. Brooke has
settled tome where in Japan. Gra v s grows over
the other seven—Heales, Aspinall, Sullivan,
Grant, Macadam, Hunt ff ay, and Houston.
They have a habit in the Melbourne
morgue of keeping a body several days, with a
view to its identification, before they dispose of it
finally. This may be a necessary custom but It
is not a very cheerful one. Frequently the body
Is never identified. Few people c*re to claim ac-
quaintance with a corpse. Its name is no good
on a bill, it has no tobacco to lend, as a rule, and
is unable to set-up a drink. One has to be dead
awhile to obtain a real idea of his place in the
scheme cf creation.
Aaron Waxman’s friends have been pub-
lishing obituary tributes to him on the anniversary
of his death. If they should happen to meet and
both be cognisant of this fact, how Marcus Clarke
will chaff him ! Perhaps, if the law of compensa-
tion hold good, Marcus Is heaping coals of fire on
the head of Aaron by lending him money, or what-
ever is the equivalent thereof in the next stage of
existence, without charging him interest. This
would be a fine epicurean kind of revenge which
Clarke would relish tremendously.
FATHER TIM’S REPLY ; OR, A WARNING
TO VANITY.
“ The years keep creepin’ an,” says she,
“ So fa3b ye’d hardly tell,
Since I was at St. Pathrick’s ball,
Where wanst I was a belle."
“ The years keep creepin’ an,” says she,
Says Father Tim, “that’s well —
If you don’t mind, me gurrl, you’ll see
St. Patbrick’s ta’l in H 1.”
Hymn to be sung at the Triangles—“ God
bless the prints of weals.”
The champion water-melon of the century
was carted into ihe cfflce ot a Rima (Q ) editor
recently. It weighed 631bs. The editor’s head
was much larger next morning.
Bcsiness is bad in Invercargill (N.Z.), and a
corresicndent of a local paper i-uHTaests that the
popu ation should approach the Throne of Grace
en masse and pray for b alter times.
An awful lesson to profane citizens comes
from West Australia. Somewhe: e between Derby
and Kimberley a miner was overtaken by a
thunderstorm, and the way he curs°d the elements
and the clerk of the weather and things in general
was awful to listen to. Another man j eproved
him for his pr jfaniiy. Just then there came a
flash of lightning which killed the other man.
The Evening News says: “There is a
sort of literary partnership existing between the
Melbourne iGE and the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph A system cf exchanging telegrams
makes a very convenient to m of wire-pulling and
mutual baok-soratchiDg.” That is what we have
often thought on reading the telegrams exchanged
between the Evening News and the Melbourne
Herald, &c.
The laud on which London is built is
valued at £118,000.000, and it pays £500,000
annually in taxes, while the buildings of
London are valued at £212,000,000, and are
taxed to the extent of £7,000,000 a year. In
other words, the structures which repretent
money and labour expended are taxed 28 times as
heavily as the land, which was stolen from the
people by enterprising thieves centuries ago and
handed down by them to their descendants, and
which repres3nts nothing bub the labour of those
who have built a city upon it while the landlord
waited and annexed the unearned increment. If
a man pays Is for rent he pays Is. to the builder
whose property he uses, Is. for taxes, and 2s. for
the privilege of occupying a few feet of God's
earth, which speculative robbers have stolen.
“ I Have Suffered! ’
With every disease imaginable (or the last
three years. Oar
Druggist, J. T. Anderson, recommending
“ Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters” to me,
I used two bottles!
Am entirely cured, and heartily recommend
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters to every one,
J. D. Walker, Buckner, Mo.
I write this as a
Token of the great appreciation I have of your
Dr. Soule's American Hop
* * * Bitters. I was afflicted
With inflammatory rheumatism ! I!
For nearly
Seven years, and no medicine seemed to do me
any
Good!!!
Until! tried two bottles of your Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters, and to my surprise I am
as well to day as ever I was I hope
“You may have abundant success"
“In this great ar,d ”
Valuable medicine :
Anyone ! * * wishing to know more about
my cure ?
Can learn by addressing me, E. M, Williams,
1,103 16th street, Washington, D.C.
1 consider your
Remedy the best remedy in existence
For Indigestion, kidney — Complaint
“ And Dervous debility. I have just"
Returned
“From the south in a fruitless search for
health, and find that your Bitters are doing me
more
Good!
Than anything else;
A moath ago I was extremely
“ Emaciated ! ! ! ”
And scarcely able to walk. Now lam
Gaining strength! and
“ Flesh!"
And hardly a day passes but what I am
* *•*•**#**# *
complimented on my improved appearance, and
it is all due to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters !
J. Wickliffe Jackson,
— Wilmington, Del
*3"None genuine without a bunch of green
hops on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name
blown on the bottle Beware of all the vile poi-
sonous stuff made to imitate the above.


The Referee
Hop. Jame 3 White fairly swept the board on
the first day of the V R.C. meeting, He won the
Eisendon Stakes wi'h Carlyon; the Ascot Yale
S akes with Volley; the Sc. Leger with Aber-
corn ; and appropriated the much-coveted New-
market Handicap with Cra - ”brook, this beiDg the
first time he has carried off a Newmarket. Tom
Hales had the mount in each event. Joe 1 homp-
sm laid Mr. Whit®, just before the raclr g com-
menced, £lOOO to £4 that Mr. White would not
secure the four events. Toe last race on the card,
the Branswiok Stakes, was won by Mr. D. S.
Wallace's Mentor.
* * *
Foley’s Hall was packed on Saturday
night, at os. and half-a-sov. a head, the event
being the meeting of Murkan man Costello and
the amateur champion-boxer, Mr. George Seale,
In a six-rounds encounter, Coslello undertiking
to knock the amateur to a standstill. Costello
towered, b r g and lusty, over his opponent, but as
well might he have tried to knack out a streak of
lightning. For the first two rounds nothing
desperate was attempted, but in the third Costello
shoved he meant business, launching out right
and left most viciously. But he soon got tired of
rushing taotics, as the amateur was n.ver where
the American expected him to be when he
let out, and, overreaching, he left himself open
to heavy returr s from Mr. Seale. In the
fourth round Cos el!o altered his style to right
hand in front, bat three heavy visitations in quick
succession showed the mistake he made, and hs
at once went back to his natural style. From
this out to the finish the little one made play and
fairly nor plusaed the Yank with the rapidity of
his hitiiog and getting away. The amateur boxed
in something like his old style, and the perform-
ance was one of the best he has yet shown, for, io
far from being “ kno: ked out,” the nimble and
tricky Coßtello did not get home a single b’ow
worthy the name from first to laßt. We should
much like to see the amateur, in tip-top oondidon,
box four or six rounds with Jack Barke. The
show would be worth going a long way to see, and
we charge nothing for the suggestion.
* * *
An ancient identity cropped up amon°st
the black cricketers in the person of our old Fiend
Twopenny. Twopenny may be called one of the
pioneers of Australian cricket in England, he
having f rmed one if Charley Laurence’s team cf
aboiigines 7wop nny, in his day, could give
poor Tommy Wills and Dave Gregory a start at
shying ab a wicket, but the cld-un must have lost
his cunning, as Nat Thompson did not think him
good enoagh for a plaoe. Twopenny showed
marked signs of civilisation after his return f om
the old conntry, and could give many a Civil
servant a start in borrowing bubs just “till the
first." Twopenny was thought so muoh of in
Sydney that he represented the oolony in an In-
tercolonial about’72, Sydney taking him over to
floor the Vies. So fast could he shy that It was
thought necessary to take ovfr a special longstop
(shades of Blackbam !) to stop him, the person
chosen being poor C irvle De Meit.e Thompson,
who was afterwards accidently shot whilst mat ing
holiday over Port Hacking way. Twopenny didn’t
“ comuoff, ’ however, the Vies “ doing the ccrn-
etalks bad ’’in one innings. Perish the thought,
but some people did say the Twopem y had bsen
“ got at," as when the m stoh came off he couldn't
even shy straight. The present team have in-
heri ed tha characteristics of Charley Laurence’s
lot, Boon getting very tired. OldCna-ley Laurenoe
used to say the greatest trouble wilh the darkies
was when they got a man out. Djwd they’d squat
and Chm ley used to swt ar that he had to go round
with a stick to rouse them.
Moorhouse ran a great trial on the Thurs-
day preceding the S;. Lager. The odds ara he
also ran his race, as he could only run into a place
oa Saturday.
• * •
The old Mistral won tha Commodore’s
prize in connection with the Prince Alfred Yacht
Club on Saturday.
• * *
Talking of the lei gfch of time for which
seme English champions maintain their supre-
maf y in certain branches of sport, it seems - that
“ Fish" Smart is still the fastest skater—or fastest
runner on skates—in the old country. For at
least 15 years no Britisher has Been able to beat
“ Fish ” at his particular game, but In Holland,
where conditions are more favourable for straight-
away skating, the Dutchmen took his number
down without much trouble.
* * *
At last Moonee Valley (Melb.) laces the
“ books" struck against a five-pound note license-
fee for the privilege cf betting in the enclosure.
As a consequence, the meeting was as flat as
ditch-water, and many unfortunate owners
scratched their horses in disgust. What’s the use
of roping a nag if you can’t got a bit of milking-
money ? # #
It Is an old belief of breeders of blood-
stock that speed comes from the dam’s side. This
will appear to apply equally to the genus homo as
to the equine species. At a recent carters’ pionio
at Auckland, we read that in tb e “ Married Ladieß’
Race" (open only to carters’ wives) Mrs. Frobert
ran first, Mrs. Hill second, and Mrs. Sindlen third.
In a subsequent race, open to carters’ daughters,
Miss Sindlen was first, Miss M. Hill second, and
Miss S. Frobert third.
# * *
The leviathan of the N.Z. turf is a Russian,
and commenced his ctlcnlal career as cook to a
party of bushmen. He is well liked, and is always
there on sattling-day.
• * •
John Smith, the owner of that game N.Z.
mare, Maid of Honour, was a live sport, bub very
eccentric. Before every race in which he had a
horse entered, he would waddle down to the
weighing-room, and say to bis jock,, in stentorian
tones, “ My hlnsbructions Is to go like h— all the
way, and to win.” Poor old Jaok, when the grim
destroyer hovered round his pain-racked couch,
and the med'eal adviser at length hinted at harps
and golden orownp, said, “Lo k here, doctor,
111 lay yon fitly to nothing I croak." The dootor
shook his head, for ha liked old Jack, and smiled
faintly. “ A hundred, then," said tha dying man,
earnestly. “Book it 1" Half-ao-hour laterJu®k
had won his wager. His mausoleum Is in the
Auckland cemetery, c’ose to tba modest graves of
Governor Hobson and Judge Stephen.
* * *
In excuse of h'a present policy, Lori
Salisbury, we read, recently said: “I believe
there Is an amusement popular in Canada called
tobogganing ; when you begin to go down the
hill you must follow the course which those whi
started it have designed for you; you must fo'-
low it, though you rese ve to yourself aoundant
rights to denounce with any amount of energy of
language those who set you on that downward
career." It a pretty evident that the noble mar-
quis never went down a toboggan side, or h®
wouldn’t oonrelve the possibility of denouncing
anybody duiing the process. Once the toboggan
is fairly whtstli'g over the frozen siow a fellow
has nn mo e thought for the world, the fl.sh ard
the other chap until he gets to the bottom of the
slide. He may be holding t’ght to the nioast girl
he knows, with the next nicest girl holding him
in a deathlike grip, and yet a fello w thinks of no-
thing at all. There is neither joy nor sorrow,
love nor hate, blessing nor de lundattoo, on a
toboggan whioh ha 3 b3en properly shoved off.
* * *
The Victorian Cricketers’ Association re-
ceived little bills from three of the local eleven oa
acoount of pecuniary loss sustained in connection
with intercolonial matches, but it was decided
that none of these claims could be paid under the
Association rules, as tha players were “ amateurs.”
THE N.S.W. FREE-POSTAGE JOB.
POSTMASTER-GRNERAL ROBERTS (of the Crown and Anchor Hotel, log.) “YOU SEE,
FAIRFAX, I GIVE YOU FREE POSTAGE FOR YOUR NEWSPAPER IN ORDER
THAT IT MAY BY-AND-BYE ADVOCATE FREE POSTAGE FOR MY GIN. IT
WOCLDN’T COST MUCH TO ENLARGE THE OPENINGS IN THE PILLARS."
Surely the time has arrived Lr dividing Austra-
lian “amateurs” into two classes-the men who
don't want payment for their loss of time, and
the men who do. As there is not sufficient popu-
lation to support much professional cricket, the
interests cf the game demand that semi profes
sionalism shall he recognised and fairly dealt with.
Twc-thirds of our leading “gentlemen” cricketers
would be forced to join the “players” In England,
if they wished to figure in country teams, for no
obligicg banks cr private firms wtuld allow them
the leaves of absence they enjoy here. But,
although they are favoured in this respect, they
have also a right to expect their ordinary wages
to be provided by the cricket club or association
at whose invitation they knock off work. In the
Inst areas we are referring to Walters and Houston
asked for £4 10s. and £4 Bs. respectively—rot very-
exorbitant olaims, anyhow.
* * *
Ned Trlekctf, when ho started training
the other day, weighed 17st. How lovingly the
alligators must gaze at him, and how the sharks
would smile If he oame down to Port Jackson !
* * *
Two mashers—Burke and Foley.
• * *
“ Our Bettara "—The bookies.
• # #
The Waterloo Cap, chief event of the
English coursing season, was put back a week in
consequence of frost. Dog races are governed by
the same rules as boat races, all bats being off if a
Sunday comes between the date of the original
fixture and th 3 actual bringing of it off. There
was, accordingly, a fresh entry and draw for the
Waterloo Cup.
• * #
An Adelaide man has given a gold horse-
shoe, valued at lOOsovs., to be run for at the next
lioensed victuallers' meeting. Last Melbourne
Cup trophy was also a horsc-shoo, and ib appears
to be the Australian raolng man a notion of a
“ work of art." Bat rather than degrade art to
such a depth of vulgarity, it would be better to
mould some putty into (he shape of a shoe and
embellish it with 100 golden quids etuok edge-
ways.
* • *
Our William was chaffing “General Mite
at the Criterion ones, when tho dwai f retaliated by
saying perkily, “Look here, Bill, you get joerself
down to my weight and 111 pull you with a
paling!" The wager hasn’t come off.
# * *
The measure of the Sixth Australian
Eleven was fairly taken last week, when (hay
scored —weather conditions bsirg equally favour-
ab e to both sides—an Innings of 219. against 221
made by the MC. C. Englishmen. Is was evident
to a child that the Englishmen's superior batting
and fieldiog enabled them to told their own,
while the weaknes s of their trundling was none
the less apparent because they clean bowled seven
of cur boys. Thera can be no earthly doubt that
Turner, Ferris, Garrett, Trott, and Biyle want
more playing than P-sel, Ataewell, Beaumont,
Stoddart, and Walter Read. Yet observe! The
Englishmen want in fl-st on Friday, and be'ore 4
o’clock had scored 185 runs. The Australians
open on Saturday with 43 to their credit, and at
4 o’clock they have a total of 160, making 11s
runs scored in rather le a rime than the Britishers
took to make 185 These figures speak for our
batting or against our fielding, and they are by no
means exoep’ional. The Britishers nearly always
score fastest by the watch.
* • *
Lord Gating bon won a pot of money at
Flemlngton on Saturday. His lordship’s affeotion
for his friend Whits was pathetic to witness, after
friend White had scooped four races right off the
reel. But at Melbourne Cup meeting, when the
Hon. James's luck was out for a time, it was
equally pathetic to witness Bob’s Indifference to
that same sportsman
When Jimmy White can’t win
The Gov. Isn’t pals with he ;
But when Jimmy’s nags romp in,
A brother the Gov. can be.
Thr: Bulletin is tha only paper In Australia
which has given a slraight tip about the merits cf
Carlyon. The ho-Ee has won teveral races in
succession since we commenced to administer the
puff direct l .
* * -it
There is a Catholic priesb in an N.S.W.
south-western township who regularly makes a
book on the local Jockey Club meeting. You
may see him foremost among the crowd crying,
“ Who's going to tack the double for the Flying
Handicap?’ He generally clears enough at two
meetings to withstand the wretched stipend-fund
tendered by his unmindful flock
* * „ #
Matthew Evans and John Hyroms, of
Melbourne, fought about a fish round the other
day and Hyroms was killed. Tnis would never
have happened if the pair had been professional
pugilist?. Ask Foley or Burke.
* * •
A sovereign on each of Hales’s mounts, on
Saturday, produced a profit of £l3 at storting
prices.
# * *
Peter Jackson, the champion boxer, proved
himself champion diver at tha Pott Jackson
Swimming Club matches the other day. Cavill
won the all-comers’ 100 yards by a foot from
Johnston, the Balmain crack.
* * *
Two young fishhawkers had a fair, up-
standing fight in Albert Park (Melb.) and after 60
minutes of vigorous assault and battery one fish-
hawker fell insensible, He subsequently expired
in the Alfred Hospital without having regained
consciousness. Meanwhile, Kilrain and Smith
who fought something under a thousand rounds
without giving one another the least disoomfort
are clearing £lOO a week as exhibition champion®’
* * •
The totalieator apparatus “cannot lie.”
Over in a certain N Z city this mechanical book-
mat er la In much request, and must be beauti-
fully manased, if we may judge by the fact that
the man who runs in is one of the largest horse-
owners. and he not only backs his own animals on
h)s own machine, but -sh ! sometimes the
animals win.
• * *
Ovners of selling racers are so used <o
buying in the winners at their own prices that
they wax quite wroth when an a* imal is run up
to a decent figure, and when such an event does
occur, some fan is Bure to ensue. When Soldier's
Wind, the winner of the Mutual Selling r w
was put up, Mr. Kennedy, the owner of Gen
E gin, who ran third in the race, oommenoed bid-
ding and compelled the owner to part with £145
before he was knocked down. Tois so ‘ riled"
Mr. Bill that he claimed Glen Elgin, and co soon
as the horse was put up he bid £125, at which
price the gelding was knocked down to him. Glen
Elgin could hardly put foot to ground when he re-
turned to scale, so Mr. Hill got rather the worst
of the deal.
* * *
The Ballarat people say that Don Giovan
can’t gallop worth a cent, and a Ballarat man's
word Is worth as muoh as any other man’s word,
li’s worth nothing.
* # t
Tils Scullers’ Hotel, at the cerner of King
and Pitt streets, Sydney, ha 3 again changed Ps
nama. It started in life as “ Triokett’s," then
became “ Patch’s," then “Callaghan's,” nexl
“ Deeble's,” and is now known as “Beach’s.”
If Kemp can only hang on to the shadow of the
championship long enough, we may expect to see
another change. Such is fame.
• * * •
They play cricket in families on the
Barwon bakblox The Wallis family recently
pitted themselves ajrainst the Chichester R ver
Club, and teat It by 45 runs. There appeared to
be about one goad plajer, more or lops on either
side, the rest scoring mostly singles and duoks.
The non-pheromeaal scores for the day’s play
were 108 and 63 respectively. This is said to be
the result of practising with a lop eided India-
rubber ball and a kerosene tin.
N.S.W. Land Nationalsiation League.
On Tuesday nex\ the 13. h inet, at 8 p.u\, a
meeting will bn held at the Temperance Hal),
Pitt street, Sydney, to adoot the manifesto and
rules of the Sydney branch tf the Latd Nationali-
sation League (the text of which we print below).
The adoption of the manifesto will be moved by
Mr. W H. Traill, and secD-dei by Mr. K. W.
Foxall : -
“ M inifestn of the Land Nationalisation League
of NS W. Motto: ‘The La-.d for th) People.’
We hold—
“ 1. 'lhat the absolute owne-ship of land lr-
volves an injustice, because ib is contrary to the
fundamental principle which should regulate the
distributicn of the prodcc'scf human exertion.
Th's principle is that eaoh man has a right to
eDjoy the fruits of his own industry.
“ 2. That all products are the outoome of the
operation of labour upon land ; while land, on the
oontrary, is nob the result of human exertion, but
is the free gift of the Almighty to all his creature
for their sustenance and enjoyment.
“3. That absolute ownership of land makes
possible for those who own It to secure a share ,
the products of labour without any exertion
their part.
“ 1 That the value of land arises from the
sence and needs of the whole commur itv. W
therefore, deem it just and wise that this value
should be taken by the State, and used for
here St of the community.
“5. That God h.s given the earth for the uss
and benefit of all mankind. This being ignored
by o; r present soolal sjßtem, we feel It to be our
duty to assert this right, which we te’isve can be
successfully accomplish'd by placing a tax on the
unimproved value of all land. We therefore pro-
pose to introduce such a tax, and increase it
gradually so as to absorb the whole of the value
of land irrespective of improvements snd we be-
lieve that the amount thus received will meet all
the revenue requirements of the State.
“ 6 That there is enough in the world to
abundantly sustain the life and minister to the
enjoyment of the whole of the human race; and
wbab is netded for the abolition of that poverty
which manifests itself in a)l the large cities of the
world—where multitudes ak In vain to be
allowed to work-is, that the equ a l rights of
all men to the bounties of nature be reoegilsed.
“ We wish to call attention to the fact thai we
do net propose to tax buildings or any improve-
ments that the owner may have put npon his
land. We hold that he has an indisputable right
to such ; and we deem it unjust and unwise in
sny way to discourage the improvement of lan* 5
because it Is to the benefit of the community that
all land should be improved to the utmost, and
put to the most profitable use
“ We wish it to he clearly understood that we
propose taxing land accordlrg to Its unimproved
value, and not according to Its extent. For ex •
ample, one acre In a city is frequently worth more
than 100,000 acres in the country, and as the un-
improved value of both has been created by tns
community, we claim it to be striotly just that the
community should enjoy the benefit of the y*J u ®
it has created ; this can be easily acconsp i?he
by UxiDg land aocordlrg to its unimproved value.
“ It is Impossible that the Fatherhood of GOO
and the brotherhood of man can he universally
recognised nnder the present social system, wamh
has produced tuch disastrous results. We, there-
fore call with confidence upon all who have the we ■
fare of their fellow-creatures at heart, to aid u
in our efforts to introduce a system more In ao-
cord with the fundamental p Inolples of Justice-
Latest advices state that there is again
room for hope of the reoovery of the Crown Prince
of Germany.
The Newcast’e (N.S.W.) police report that
they have found half nude Earopean girls smok-
ing opium in Chinese dens. We now proceed to
give those zealous officers a hard pinch for sew
news. The police are splendid popularity hunter .
You always find the bobby tiding light on tbe top
of a breaker cf public opinion.
New Guinea is tho rankest commercia
failure south of the line. The steamers that no
run there from Thursday Island are to be disc •
tinued, as it is utterly useless oatering for a pia
where trading Is praotioally prohibited, w
trade there Is is done by the Germans, who co
pletely undorsoll the British and Australians.


MeLEAN BROS., RIGG * CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
812 GEOR9E STREET, SYDNEY.
/
SPECIALITIES:
Bavis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATE® WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S. JEANS & WALKER'S,
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &o„ &c.
COMPOI INI)
ESSENCE OE DiIDELIOI
IS A CERTAIN CURE FOR
liligsstin, Livsr ail Eiiiey lisiiim,
v ' iSIL
Read testimonials wrapped with each bottle and you will be convinced.
LIVER PILLS act as a valuable aperient and tonic in conjunction with
the DANDELION ESSENCE.
ESSENCE OF DANDELION, ss. per Bottle. LIVER PILLS, Is.
pet
Box. Of all Chemists.
—:o:
olesale Agents, Messrs ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.
Qiticura
on Sculp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
ill
%•*■«s**
Of
Boroful* on Neckw
[PIMPLES to SCROFULA
IBSTGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
ith *’ Inching »nd Burning Skin Torture*,
■csltt 'TiT c ® ore *> a nd every specie* of Itching,
UtlnVii m P*y« Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
Unease* of the Blood, Skin, and S'calp, with
Ph*icn». from infancy to old age, are cured by
Ihternan* Insolvent, the new Blood JPurifier,
Ittatol?’ and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
Cure*and Beautiflers, externally.
n S' an< * Burning Skin Disease*,
ltchin»' s ar her*’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
V> both and Delicate Irritations peculiar
With rT * exe ®« instantly relieved by a warm bath
PhTimT» T,:OURA Soap and a single application of
daily *h® great Skin Cure. This repeated
SMll.nY jthree doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
•cai T) p ®®"hy cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
all other means absolutely fail.
With R , Rn * Scent Popular Work on the Skin,
'hbVENT r A d I >late ®> iB wrapped about the Re-
A1 *°. one hundred Testimonials, sol-
*®Peat tht orn 40 before the British Consul, which
for vp. l hi* story: I have been a terrible sufferer
Vao- ’ - a xinvo uccu i* tcinuitJ buix-cici
8 Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
Pt niv to shun public places by reason
ut iQv V » iU LO Buun puouc piacea oy reason
•ichtjL. {Jguring humors; have had the beet phy
spent hundreds of dollars, and got
■Which”, 1 until I need the Cuticura Remedies,
*» pnrp Ve cllre <l me, and left my skin and blood
■®ok •! ?r a child’*. Send for our sixty-four page
* How to Cure Skin and Blood Disease*.”
Australian Consisnees,
' Town* Jb Co., Hew South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVES, , the new Blood Puri-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hencs
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cutictura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing 3 cap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared *t tbk
Potter Drag; * Chemical Co., Butn, V. 8.1.
%
at
«x.
i Medal
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Me.
SIDIN BO HGhH.
K, OUNYNGHAMK, Bond-atreet, Sydney
In bulk
and case,
Best BEER
In the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels*
“
CKALAKXI.
rrww bank or iiw
JL SlBRn BmAMOHKS I
II PITT-BTRKET, and 088 GBORGE-STKBBT,
Paid-up Capital _ _ <1,000,008
Reserve fund .... 006,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal oitiet
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and oan offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
Dial and Travellers Letters of Credit,
Draft* issued and Bills oolleoued on most favour
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N ff. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM'B PILLS
wawtns
PILLS.
Are admitted by thorn
sand* to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nerroua disorder*,
each a* wind and pain
in the stomach, eich
headache, giddiness,
fain*** and * welling
alter meal*, dixxinese
and drowsiness, cold
•hill*, flushing* of heat,
lo** of appetite, ehort-
nea* of breath, oostire-
ae**,scurry, blotche* on
the akin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dream*,and ail
■erreu* and trembling
eeneation*, 4c. The first
doe* will gir# relief in
■fewtos. This is ne fiction, for they bars
■smet it im thousand* of cum. Ever y sufferer ia
sasweetly lari tod to try ana box of these Pills, and
win he acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX
&mi fessales of ell ages these Pilla ara invaluable,
@3 a few doses of them carry off all grots humours,
@p» all obatractiona, and bring' about all that ia
siapdaid. No female should be without them. There
Is t* medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM’S
Wffl£>9 for removing any obstruction er -irregularity
sS the system. If taken according to the directions
gferaa with each box they will soon restore females a*
bM agee to sound and robust health.
'Wm a Weak stomach, impaired digestion and ah
(fflsorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC/' and ■
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
mast important organa of tha human machine. They
Strengthen the whola muscular system, restore tha
tang-lost complexion, bring back tbe keen edge of
a®p»fcito, and arouse into action with the KOBEBTJD
9f health the whole physical energy of the human
Swims, These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousand*
wteimaing all classes of society 5 and one of the
last guarantees to the nervous and debilitated ia,
Bescham’a Fills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
OTCHAM’S MAGIC COTJGH FILLS,
A* a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffl-
®alty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
sm& Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, 4c,, these
!?yjs etand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
mj of tha above complaints need only try One Box
prove that they are the best ever offered to the
igablie for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Sfo&rseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
saaedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
festod, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
With any of the above complaint* give Bxxoxax’s
Pinns a trial.
The most violent Cough will In a short time be
sm&oved.
OAkrexo*.—-The public are requested to notice that
Oka words " Bxxckam’* Pinns, St. Helens," are on the
sgsyesament Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
88 not on they are a forgery.
fSepared only and sold wholesale an& retail by
iitto proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, Bt. Helen*,
&@»eaMhire, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 3s. Bd,
gash.—Bold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
maim throughout the Colonies. a
BUi.— foil directions are given with wash fceaj*
Commercial Hotel, Bympie, Queensland.
THE above Is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the oolony. Prices
reasonable. Sample room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold
Mrs. COMPIGNE, Proprietress,
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMER?
' surpasses all others for its lasting and natural j
| fragrance.
Three Golu Mehais-
PARIS, 1878; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRiGA & CYMBIDIGM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, and being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth and
improving the appearance or the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harmless
ATKINSON'S, FLORIDA VTATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
1. A E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London,
k Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on “ Golden .
Lyre.”
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYENS
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale,
Guinness' Extra Stout
rot&r QUALITY,
m .iii i
r »*OE
BASS’ PALE ALE.
ftOLB PURVEYORS M ttUI
MQ9IUK AMD INMAX EXMESKBON
LONDON,
By Special Appointment
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. lALCHIN, JOHISTOI ft CO.,
ooMMtreial Chambers, Bead-meet, Sydney,
,G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS.
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &o.
COOPERAGE.
187 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market street*.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
J, CRAMP, Propbibtok (late of Rockamptea),
Conducted on the same principle aa the
great Melbourne Coffee Palaoe. Ann
large Billiard Room.
Prices aa follows i—6b. per diem, All meals Is, Id,
JS
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
•r* AI\L V VriVT OT
m‘as In aMAM.*'
RIDGE’S
FOOD
m INFANTS and INVALIDS
.Has an enormous sale In England,
[and is now being Introduced Into the
Colonies.
(Every Storekeeper should get a supply}
eVeryiwrlse .cnother will certalnl*
'use It. “ '
EDunajnoCE's hoy al food
M.OW.DON.^feNGtAXrt>-
ASTL£i SQtfg
i MANUFACTURING HATTERS
I GEORGE STREET
S V D N CM
I IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
P NEWEST SHAPES.
And atjfQUMN STREET,HBRIBBANE,
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. Kilda t cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, Da*
presslon of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Palnß In Kidneys, Fog Fever, and its after effects.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
simply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
GENUINE SODA WATER.
TECE3
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfect Purity Guaranteed.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDEBA, N.S.W.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train.
J. B. PATTERSON,
Froprletne,
Good Sample Rooms. \
»rt£» •Irena
Copyrighted. j
Moustxcho ud WMsksrs.
E J1 eyd s e Beard Elixir did this,
d will do it on either bald
ad or bare /atm- Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 toeeke and never fail*. 20,000
- . - I loung mm» aCready wear full Copyrighted,
beanie, having used Ito 3 pkte. No injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, le. Bdf. each, 8 for 3s. 6d.. poet paid, tent under
cover, free from observation. Address, Frank Mouglu, Bole Agent,
Box T3O. 0. T. 0., Sydney, N.B. W,
•crons *.rf km
T
0 JOBBING PRINTERS, fcO,
To be sold, a large quantity of Old Type Mid
Cases, useful for country newspaper. Apply,
“Bulletin” Newspaper Co., Pitt-street,


PfittWl
YAL
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuit*, rolls,
nufflnfl, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
reaat, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
*,f>m lighter, Bweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
u caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
;he flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal racing Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with mpunlty. Maintains its full
itrength in any climate, any length of time. Kn
Horsed by the United States Government Chemists,
usd by the leading physicians and hygienlsta Of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure
wholesome. Sold only tins. Royal Bar
Powxsk* Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
'rade supplied by Moses Moss ft Co.,
" " W.
P. R. JL^RKIN,
WHLOBSAUi AND RETAIL
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT, AND IMPORTER.
THE FAMOUS £3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS CONTAINS
8 Bottles Brandy
1 Bottle Jamaica Rum
1 Bottle Port Wine
8 Bottles Whisky
1 Bottle Wolfe's Schnapps
1 Bottle Sherry Wine
7 Bottles Lowndes’ Rom
1 Bottle ?ld Tom
TOTAL, 18.
Securely packed and delivered Free to Rediem Station, or any Wharf in the City, os receipt Of <B,
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
CORNER OF GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS.
CENTENNIAL SELEOtIbAR, TBO Gborgb-strbbi.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL~SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 Gbobgb-stbbbx, Sydnby.
WALLACH BROS.'
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET WYEYARD SQUARE,
Aim
80 CLABENCB STBEET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
rr.T.Trarg itbb CJATALO#UB* WITH TKACH LEST, FHSH OH ATPLBOATIOH,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
BBUB BIB®
ram, wan
For Artistic Posing and MWJJ** laa
combining softness and brUllanWi
Photographs Of __
GHARLEMONT * »
ROYAL ABO AD*.
STAND PRE-SMINKNTLT Atgg*,
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
FIRST-CLASS TABU*.
Terms Moderate. a Aff
M'JSGRAVE HOUSE,
Corner of
CHARLOTTB and GEORGE STBS® 18 *
BRISBANE.
JOB. BARRINGTON, P«P^
Excelsior hotel, charters
in
Second Brick Hotel Building
wa, situated corner of Gill and Ch 011 ._,***,
er of GUI ana
W. M.
jvtoxjisra?
PIIMSLAFD UATIOSAIi
20 BEDROOMS. .
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done
is now ready for the reoeptio or* 0 "*
Every comfort. CeUar stocked wit pro prle^JJ.
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HEISBB^S^
Tha Wonder ol tti *tt «g
COLEMAN E and Sons, OootwnWJ'
awarded First Prise at the Ade
tloa for their PURE VOLATILE *»»
OIL. The only known cure for AS“V **'
affections of the oheatu We havs ®
testimonials than any medicine si&fr
This Is a genuine artiole. Posted to ;i, I*
on receipt of stamps. Price, J- 8,
Wholesale Sydney Agent, W. C. ** pa**
Cook-street,
SJbJXJE OF
STATIONERY, BOOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BRACKETS, EASELS, BAGS, AND PURSES.
Startling ration,
WILLIAM BULLARD, 343 GEORGE STREET
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CIO.,
IMPORTXKS wad MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronta
Hydrants, Ship and Honaa Sanitary Ware, Pig and Bl&stfc Lead, Spoils, dsa
Mimh and Ball Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work:, OopparamltiMng, BlaokMnJlhlas, Plnsabiae,
»aaflatin«, Tank and Sirdar Building, Maa&lo wad PaawtaaMs Beß'fll&ag, of 97®?f dateslsNaa.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," “VALTU," and “PAN" OLOSSSI, “ VACUUM" WATBE.
WASTR, PRKVSNTEJtS, BSQ»
■ola Haute ter Tnttv Ink Patent Ais PrapaSSarsyßxknnsS Fan 6«wa*, «»p F6»*mi» ®®aB«»*o
Waraaaw* m&*
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE PLACE.
SYDNEY.
FUU. PjJHBOBftABg AW» PKOI OK ASNfMfUkSBO'«.
ALFRED LAWRENCE an
180 OOLLINS-STRBBT, WEST,
Melbourne.
91 Pirr-STRBB*.
arDwaw.
BREWERS and Water Mat era Machinery and Appliances. Books on Breftfß*
making. Dr. Griefendorffs Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. Griefendorff« Bohem**?^^
Dr. Griefendorffs Dandelion Bitters. Dr. Griefendorff'a Quinine Wine. Utica and Ljt
Bitters. Hop Aroma, Corking Machines, Yeast Presses and other sorts. Lignosote lor
and ymfru- Boakes liquid Albumen Wine Finings. Thermometers, Saecharometeri,
Afaiinnin. and Ether Ice Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion Aw, m
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, fto. Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application,
Publishing Office of _
'* THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS' JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WIN®
TRADE REVIEW."
Also
‘'THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE, i
ro
••
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, BOULBIIRN.N.S.W.
FlftflT.nr.Aflß »oocimma<Utdoa tor ooaunaroMtl
gentlemen and outkom
snale room*. JAMWS SlMOwfl. Pronrletor
\/rASONIG HOTKL, BAST STRKKT, ROCK-
?A HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor,
Wayside Gleaniuga i—The “ Western Cham-
Jion" eaya i “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
3 atonic to my weatern frienda.'
Hi s
UJ
is
3 UJ
r>
H
0 !
S s
UJ
YK&TUKOMIAIdI
frooi the Soudan Contingent Hcapita
Oorpi; alio from eminent Doctors and
Student* tram Sydney Haipital
HONK’S
Pill HIT VII.
I*. M. per Bottle,
lit tot II and take no mbiMtate.
Ii in laeilmMe Mire. See lerttaionlili.
JfcEOlSrißZ’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrheas Mixture
A positive once. Sold by all Chemise#,
3s. fid. per bottle.
JMCOIESTB^EJ
NEURALGIA ffIXTURE,
is. fid. per bottle,
Sole Agents i
MATHEY, NATHAN A 00.,
301 PITT STREET, SYDNEY |
IHT>
44 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne.
TO BE LET.—STORES adjoining “ Bulletin 1
Office, Pitt-street. Apply, this Office,
4 SOVEREIGN R*^
J« * Ajaieoed with fUMOJ^S®
toruaxcrx. Aoaiwa Paiws to *»" -d
Fact*, or Hoad.
ftfoy surfer those axoruolatlng ”•*** f g
UK. -OOTHaMBraSw*
will give Instant Eel ief and Care * V u,
The Australian Remedy. No o® *
necessary In Bolides, Is., 2s. 3d.,
CUBE ?OB BEdG&ftfi°*'J
ROSE'S CELEBBRATED e&tVffi
Tals Lotion iB bhe Bast and Safest %n &
Eyes. It not only cores Swellto a
Blight, hot strengthens the sight. * e & Ig’JjP’
dmoaials from those who have ■'soo 3®J<
Its agency oan be seen. Admitted
faculty to be the safest and best
prepared t m »h« «t»» e, ’ owrt,, | ,l fl|if}
H. i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical
531 George-etreet. ° -
a a ooktiS
Auctioneer & Heal Property 2*
kuckhamptoH
SM
DK. R- J
L.R C.P., Edin., L.R.C.S. and
registered in Great Britain and N 0
late surgeon to H.R.H. Princess
Resident Medical Officer to the A "r o f
London, specialist for the breatm® n
and Heart Diseases, fitc.
Consultation by letter or P®
charge, at Edgar House, No. 8,
Hunter-street, Sydney.
w
"VISITORS TO SYDNEY ARE INVITED TO INSPEOT THE MAGNIFICENT STOCK OF
4Tn| ™ Tewallerv Ooara-glaaaes” Optical, Mathematical, Scientific, and Surveying Gooda, alao the unrivalled Workshop., in fuU awing, where tho mwmlaotor
aU H the 3 ae Gocda on under the conatant and personal aupervialon of the Proprietor. Come one, coma all, to 334 George-atreet.
T- 171I 71 - 'WIESBiTBB, 334= Q-BO2SQ-B
WIESENER, WIESENER, WIESENER, WA.TOtiMA.K.KH, IE SELLER, amp OPTLOAN.
