

Aak you*
Grocer for
8 Malted Cocoa.
J, S. FKY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“An ordinary cap contains more active properties of malt than a pint o the best Ale or Porter. *
Lancet,
READ. BEAD. KEAE.
“ THE BULLETIN’S”
JJISTORY OF
w- BOTANY BAY
ZEB3T iT u
\
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED
By “ The Bulletin’s ” well-known Artists,
L HOPKINS & PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling;;
Per Post, Is. sd.
gydfe* May be had from all Agents, or direct from -‘The Bulletin” Office.
i
The Bulletin


TO BA
CO
; ®l
Pi
B
■
ONS
ove.
*
*
©
o
sa
o
x
x/
SIR ROGER
6H/ID
50
S’
a
H
DIXSONS
E
XCELSIOR HOTEL, CHAR'
TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets,
W. M, GOUGH, Proprietor,
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now Imported in bottles and used in treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER-
CEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPWJDEL - SALT
in small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APE RIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tsa-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonfui of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLE, 82, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
i
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.— For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS.— For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HADTERIYE. — An excellent T able Water.
of ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
r ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
Eau de Toilette de Londres.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and soften-
ing the skin, and an exceedingly choice
Perfume lor the Handkerchief. An en-
tirely new article, prepared exclusively
by the Inventors.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24-7 OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
. Trade Mark—“ White Rose" on -‘Golden .
g. Lyre,” with Address in lull.
UK
ill i a, 330.
Photographic Stock Importer,,
26 —MARKET —STREET,
SYDNEY,
M‘LEAN BROS. RIGG, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANT*?,
618 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i
SPECIALITIES ;
Davit* Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Aibo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES s—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS h WALKER'S
’BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, ftfl., fto.
INSURE YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS I!
BY TAKING
OKS FLDID IUGIESIA.
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions and Fortifies the
System against the Shafts of Disease.
THE BEST APERIENT EOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS SOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO Alili OTHERS
(Vide Medical Testimonials } Analysis, &c., accompanying each Bottle).
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s 6d., and 3s. 6d. each.
Wholesale Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS, Limited
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
64 COLLINS STREET EAST.
■nbsoribed Capital
Paid-up and Aocraed Capital
Deposits Received _
Advances Made _
total Income _
Tear ending
Oot., 1886.
£180,426
61,630
93,581
123,248
200,106
Tear ending
Oot., 1886.
£350,000
120,000 ,
261,500 • ,
247,840 .
451,085
Tear ending
Oot., 1887.
£431,125
206,685
391,356
307,828
797,990
Tear ending
Oot., 1888.
_ £580,000
251,015
... 1,133,949
633,836
... 3,048,951
Deposits received at following Rates:
cent.; 3 months, 6 per cent.
•i '• V
—l2 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To - Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
EVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
this BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
AMPLE FUNDS for Borrowers. TS&US LIBERAL
m
m
JL
I
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
£JAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of la. pe
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are la
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in Cash.
The holders of t ie First Issue of these Shares received in October,
1885, £26 Is. bd., towards which sum they had Contributed only
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for ll years.
Hon. JOHN 10, M.P., J.P., _ Chairman,
WILLIAM DVUKRVI ActlnfSecrctarj.
ì
the
Federal coffee Palace
CORNER OF
KZirrg" <2z> CollirAS Streets, lv£el'bo-u.rrre,
Containing 560 ROOMS, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL ■ GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menit, presided over by an experienced CMf, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMS.
HOT, OOLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS ANDJiUTTEKS PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
George Cohen - - - - Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—Ho. 481.
SATURDAY, MA Y 4. 1S8».
Price, H.
Mayor Benjamin (Melbourne).


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia h’Or the Australians.”
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-strekt, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... 012 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. ivhen
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
Sterling—which you. may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you, every week
for a year.
This offer is not op>en to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Jj^^xxlZeiz/zi.
SATURDAY, MAY 1 1889.
The Epoch of Syndicates.
The present Is nob, we think, more remark-
able than the past as regards the prevalence
ot syndicates. —Such combinations have
existed ever since the primeval tailless ape
segregated in groups and combined to bounce
or choose their congeners out of a grove of
cocoanuts. One of the most ancient fyndi-
cates of which we have record was also the
most daring and comprehensive In its alms.
It comprised, according to the story, the
whole of mankind; and inasmuch as all
mankind could have no one to rob or swindle
unless they set to work bo pick their own
pockets—if they had any—they aspired to
no less a scheme than to exploit God and
His angels out of the fee simple of Heaven.
We allude, (f course, to the building of the
Tower of Babel, shares in which, after rising
several storeys high, fill with a crash so
tremendous that the exasperated holders of
scrip found one language Insufficient to curse
their luck In, In consequence of which a
variety t f tongues have since afflicted man-
kind. Joseph’s brethren, somewhat later,
formed themselves Into a syndicate to grab
his coat of many colours and divide It Into
allotment®, with an rxtra bonus dtrvable
from the cash receipts for Joseph himself,
who was thrown in, and found himself, as
many a vlct'm of syndicates has since, in a
considerable hole. Joseph himse’f, an Ici-
pating his descendant Benjamin Disraeli
by several thousand years, contrived to get
on the blind side of a monarch, and pub up a
corner in wheat compared with which the
purchase of Suez Canal shares was a mere
retail transaction. Columbus was another
smart man with big business notions. No
one less than a sovereign was strong enongh
to chip in with his schemas. Ha speculated
on a new world, and stipulated with Ferdi-
nand and Isabella for sharing teims.
Coming down to later times, all trans-
actions took their colour In some degree
from the epoch during which they were
carried on. During the good old, cub-throat
middle ages adventnrers cased themselves In
Iron plates and went about forming com-
binations with other parties who knew c f a
neighbour with a fl \w in his title, or, what
amounted to the same thing, a defect la bis
boiler plates, and financed him with battle-
axes and maces. An illegitimate son of a
piratical syndicator of the French province
of Normandy founded a very pretty sjndl-
cate of gentlemen whose capital consisted
chiefly of a high Immoral character and a
rnsty suit of armour, and made a pool of
E -gland, and England a pool of blood. The
Scottish army under Leslie, when Charles I.
dropped adventitiously into their hands,
rega-ded him in the light of a bonanza and
promptly syndicated him for £40,000, more
or less. Later on in the world's history,
when trade began to engross attention, the
Latch first and then the English started
syndicates in something like their modern
form. Among the former, gangs of mer-
chants sent out naval expeditions and
grabbed the Spice Islands. Finding spices
so abundant that if Imported in all their
natural ccp’ousneas they would be unable
to bull the prices, they destroyed whole
groves. The French tried to carry the
thing even farther. At the Instance of a
Scolchman, John Law, they got up the
biggest firm of the trading sort on record.
Law was clearly an extraordinarily clever
man and only two centuries bafore his time.
He worked with a Regent as decoy-duck and
gninea-plg. The Scotch, with their Darien
sche me, and the English South Sea Company
were pretty good at the syndicate business
also. But the East India Company proved
the biggest thing ever done in that line,
the plunder of the richest empires of Ind
servirg to enrich whole generations of
Englishmen.
• * •
In our own day the jobbing of the revenues
of Egypt turned out very prettily till the
French and English Jobbers allowed national
sentiment to Interfere with business. Never-
theless, the fellahs continue to be bled pretty
satisfactorily, with the British nation offici-
ating in the dignified capacity of bum-bailiff
ani extortioner-general for the Shylocks of
France and England indifferently. But the
art of syndicating is becoming vulgar. The
o’d high game is still kept up, but the more
shoddy capitalists are degrading the pro-
fession with paltry Imitations. Reigning
families are mere syndicates now-a-days, but
these are syndicates to grab tramway con-
cessions, to capture railways and to puff
patent medicines. Napoleon 111, was run
by a syndicate when President of the French
Republic. The spoils were the revenues of
France. General Boulanger is being boomed
evidently in imitation of that successful coup.
The new Emperor of Germany has been busy
since he came to the throne In organising a
sj ndicate of sovereigns against Republicanism
as represented by France, and if the Czar of
Russia were not a muddled fool a syndicate
of monarchs would be complete by this time,
with articles of association which would bind
each to crush those pastllent things—liberal
ideas—wherever they began to be trouble-
some. Liberal ideas are incompatible with
the claims of the members of some half a-
dezm families in Europe, more or less scro-
fulous and predisposed, by in-and-in breed-
Ing, to imbecility, to take as much money as
they wish to squander or hoard from the
rest of mankind.
* • •
Ilfs among the bast evidences extant of
the existence of an over-ruling Providence
that legal rank 1s inducive of senseless pride,
which prompts royal personages to Imagine
themselves defiled by any but Illegitimate
liaisons with the rest of the human race, and
thus involves the inevitable decadence In
intellect and moral vigour of heredi-
tary monarchs all over Christendom. Other-
wise, there would be no possible escape
for the mass of mankind from eternal
spoliation and degradation. There are, in-
deed, always a crew of clever vagabonds
ready for a share of the plunder to offi?iate
as the panders of Sovereigns, and to act as
‘‘flsppers’when their effete intellectual facul-
ties fall into a comatose condition. But,
happily, monarchs have officially mated with
female fools of their own breed —for prince-
begetting purposes—for so many generations,
that the qualities of fatuous arrogance and
Imbecile wrong-headedness have become so
aggravated that they are utterly Incapable of
even allowing themselves to be propped up.
* • .
The fierce light which beats upon a
throne ” is not a circumstance when com-
pared with the (e’rifle rays of flattery and
bunkum which converge on the occupant of
that bedizened arm-chair. The subtle but
potent influence of those demoralising sol-
vents soften the very brain-substance of the
gorgeous wretches exposed to them and re-
duce them or their progeny to a pitiable con-
dition of pompous imbecility. The Bourbons
furnish a flagrant example. In France, in
Spain, in Naples, their history has been of
the same sort. Little Bomba —thrusting all
the intellectual of his subjects Into oubliettes
and swaggering abou l ) In deml-god
security till Gulserpe Garibaldi, a common
sailor-man, with filibustering expirlercas
and patriotic inspirations, hnoted him from
his palace and klngicm like a mangy pup
with a tin-kettle unexpectedly attached to his
tail and garnished with crackers—is a perfect
match for Louis the Well-Beloved swelling
himself out at the Tulleries till Bonaparte,
breaking bounds from Elba, sent him
scampering over the front iar to hia frlenda,
the enemies of France. Charles X., skulk-
ing away from his people a few years later,
with his cousin of Orleans soollng on his
faithful subjects, well maintained the
traditional inability of his raca to
perceive that, instead of tha monarch
being something sacred and infallible
In the eyes of his loving and humble sub-
jects, the latter' were apt to be poising
their myriad feet to kick the hinder parts of
their Sovereign with emphasis adequate to
propel him Into the middle of the adjoin-
ing kingdom. Next, that very cousin of
Orleans—despite the practical experience he
had enjoyed of the Insufficiency of a per-
sonage of blood royal to make more than a
decent living by teaching mathematics, when
brought into competition with common
people, and tha direct personal participation
he had In assisting at the booting forth of
Charles X. —once squatted on the throne as
Louis Phillips, lost all sense as com-
pletely as any of his predecessors. At half-
past 11 one fine night he was vapouring about
the difficulty of selecting for the suppression
of his foolishly troublesome subjects a
minister who would be perfectly acceptable
to Her Sacrad Majesty, his wife ; and
at 12 sharp he was scuttling down a back
stair disguised as a British grocer, and ex-
ceedingly anxious to prevent somebody from
parting his hair with a poll axe.
♦ * *
The danger from royal syndicates is, lb
will be perceived from the foregoing, by no
means so serious as It might ba, considering
the opportunities they enjry by reason of
■ the readiness of greedy and sagacious
scoundrels to show them how to work the
oracle, for a whack of the plunder. The
actual and pressing danger of the epoch lies
In humbler organisations The perils of
wholesale spoliation are Inconsiderable when
compared with the risks of spoliation In de-
tail. The knowing ones begin to give up
Sovereigns as clumsy and unmanageable
accomplices. They now band together
among themselves. Thus abandoned by the
strongest of their modern props, It Is pro-
bable that monarchs will before long come
down flop. But the masses will not be con-
siderably benefited. In the republics of
France and the Uni bed Spates of America,
for example, the pockets of bhe average
citizens are levied on only a libtle less
severely than are the pockets of Brlbona and
Belgians, although the latter have to pro-
vide a handsome fortune every year for their
Sovereign, and a small fortune yearly for every
prlncelet that the fecundity of a Sovereign
can produce In the way of small change. A
smart corner in sugar or wheat; a railway
monopoly, an operation In coal or salt, these
or anyone of a hundred similar conspiracies
levies annually more from the people of a
modern state than the most exorbitant drone
or greedy wasp that ever sat on a throne. If
monarchs indeed, and all their progeny were
not absolutely blighted by hereditary fatu-
ousness they might enjoy a longer and
better innings than ever, simply by resuming
In reality their pretended functions and
becoming the guardians and protectors of
their people from every other sort of ex-
ploiter. Bub this Is Impossible. The whole
breed Is sunk too low in the scale of intelli-
gence and vitality. The syndicators would
snuff them out peremptorily the moment they
ventured to show a gleam of consciousness
of their duty and the faintest Indication of
an Intention to discharge it. At present
they tolerate the race of sovereigns as valu-
able decoys to distract attention from their
own burglaries. It Is only In the Republics
of America and France that the people have
begun to cast uneasy and jealous regards
upon the operations of the various gangs
who, under the style of Rings, Lobbies, and
Trusts, work the oracles known In Australia
under the name of Syndicates.
Parkes and Phylloxera.
Austbalia is destined to supply the world with
wine, and the culture of the grape must soon take
rank as her most important industry. Every acre
set out in vines employs far more labour than a
thousand acres devoted to the growth of wool, and
the money paid for the wine is brought into the
country and spent on the spot; whereas the
money paid for the wool is in great part and in
constantly increasing proportion spent in enabling
the squatter and his family to cut a dash in
Europe. Practically this was the meaning of the
verdict of the Commissioners who awarded the
late Enporor of Germany’s thousand guinea prizo
for the beat specimen of the most important
Australian manufacture to the makers of the finest
sample of wine submitted to their judgment. They
decided that no Australian manufacture equalled
in importance that of wine, and it necessarily
follows that no natural product of otir soil can be
equal in importance to the raw material. (j ur
gold yield decreases every year, our silver is in the
hands of a gang of the greediest speculators the
earth can show, our coal is subject to all the job-
bing of Ministers and mining sharks, but our wine
can only be made by the steady labour of
multitudinous grape growers each operating on a
comparatively small plot of earth. Therefore
anything which threatens this industry retards
the growth of the country and endangers its pros-
perity. The Victorian Government realised this
truth ten years ago, and set themselves energeti-
cally, if somewhat expansively, to work to eradi-
cate the Phylloxera vastatrix which had then
recently made its appearance in Australia, after
almost annihilating the French production of
claret, which fell in a few years from fourteen
hundred millions of gallons annually to about four
hundred millions of gallons at the outside. The
Government of New South Wales have not yet
found cut that any real efforts to cope with the
evil are among their duties, and if we may judge
by the speech of which Sir Benby Pabkes de-
livered himself last Thursday, they consider that
they have done quite enough when they have
appointed a Board and ignored its recommenda-
tions
• • •
Mr. Kidd, who has the misfortune to be a mem-
ber of the New South Wales Vine Diseases Board,
brought the matter under the notice of the Legis-
lative Assembly. He complained very reasonably
that the Board had, since its constitution in June
last, examined a number of vineyards, reported
on their condition, and recommended certain
measures of destruction and compensation to
the Colonial Secretary as long ago as October
last. The Colonial Secretary, however, had not
troubled himself to give any decision at all. He
had not even taken official notice of the fact that
the Chairman of the Board, Mr. Charles Moobe,
had resigned, and necessarily the evil was growing
worse day by day. The Board have examined in
the county of Cumberland alone 400 vineyards.
They have found 16 of them affected and have
assessed the compensation due to the owners.
The payments recommended range from the sum
of £7 10s. in one case of a small vineyard of three-
quarters of an acre up to as much as £9O per acre
in the case of a larger and thoroughly well-kept
vineyard, whose ownermight, if left|alone, honestly
look forward to taking four good crops from his
land before his vines would be much damaged.
Had the Colonial Secretary delivered his verdict
in favour of the Board’s recommendations the
whole of these vineyards would have been de-
stroyed before the end of November last, that is,
before the beginning of the summer. Had he
chosen to disagree with the Board’s decision he
could have dismissed them and appointed another
batch of commissioners, or he could have directed
their operations in some definite manner. He has
done nothing and they have been at a standstill
for six months. The phylloxera has been allowed
a whole summer in which to spread and to breed
and matters are worse than ever.
• • •
This is about as plain a case as ever any man put
before a Legislative Assembly, and it is a new
projf of the singular obliquity of mental vision
which characterises Sir Henry Pabkes that his
reply was confined solely and entirely to abuse of
the Board and to praise of the chairman who had
chosen to resign that position. “The Board,’’ Sir
Henry Pakkes said, “ was a ridiculous abortion,”
and this was practically all he had to say about it.
Mr Burns backed him up by stating that “ When
* four ! ’ (ten) years ago the Victorian Government
undertook the destruction of vineyards only two
were infected,” and a member named S tephen
vented the astounding assertion that “nobody
knew what the Phylloxera really was.” The out-
come of the discus sion which wobbled in the dis-
tressing fashion common to the New South Wales
Assembly was that the Vine Diseases Act would
be repealed, the Board dissolved, and nothing will
be done excepting, as Sir Henry Parker hinted, to
appoint a Government Inspector who will, of
course, journey about the country and write reams
of reports to fill up his time, which reports no one
will be compelled to read.
• * o
It is not likely that anyone eke in Australia
is so ignorant on the subject as Mr. Stephen,
but if there be such another, it may be
useful to him to know that the Phylloxera
is an insect which pastes a part of its life
on the earth in the shape of a grub gnawing
the roots of the vine and another part of its life in
the shape of a winged moth spreading itself over
the face of the country and multiplying with
astonishing vigour and rapidity. At the offices of
the commission he may see it in all its stages and
he may see portions of the infected vines in every
state of destruction and decay. He may also read
about a ton of descriptions if he chooses, showing
how it has nearly wiped the French vineyards eff
the face of the earth saving those dedicated to the
growth of champagne with which it has not yet
interfered, and if he likes to enquire into the
Victorian experience he will find that in November,
1889, the infected district extended ten miles
north-westerly from Geelong by five miles south
and five milor west, and that it was bounded on the
east by the sea and on all other directions by
pastoral country. Nineteen vineyards were found
to be diseased and the plague was spreading to
such an extent that it threatened the whole colony.
It was finally dealt with by eradicating the vines
in the whole district within a radius of twenty
miles around Geelong, and by the most stringent
measures for the destruction of all vines within a
radius of three miles from any vineyard which
might prove to be infected in any other part of
the colony. So much for “ the two infected vine-
yards ” of which Mr. Burns had heard and for the
pen-on who declared “that it was not yet known
what Phylloxera was.”
• • •
We are not concerned to defend the Vine
Diseases Board. We know that Mr. WiiKtNSON,
one of the members whom Sir Henry Pabkes
sneered at as “ a George-street wineshop keeper ”
is one of the most experienced and extensive vite
growers in the Hunter River district, and of the
other members we can only say that he had eyes
and chose them. Butt we are very much concerned
for the one industry which the people of Australia
have a fair chance of keeping to themselves free
from the machinations of land-grabbers, mining-
speculators, syndicates, rings, and all other forms
of robbers. Phylloxera is only to be stamped out.
You cannot persuade it to go away nor levy a poll-
tax to prevent its entrance. You must burn the
infected vines, root and fruit, leaves and branches.
You must plough up the infected ground and let
it lie fallow, and all these things cost money.
This money has to be found by the people and
administered by the Government. The people
are ready. Why is the Government asle< p?,


If yon want to know why fossil politicians
came to hold sway in N.S. Wales read The
Bulletin’s “ History of Botany Bay.”
The wool, tallow, horn, hide and (kin
industry has now a special journalistic representa-
tive in N.S.W. The new venture is named the
Sidney Stock and Station Joubnal and is
issued twice a week, the editor being Mr. John
H. Parker.
Sjdney Evening News now puts It In this
way : —“At the Central Police Court this mo; n-
ing an Irishman named ——■
faced the beech on a charge of deserting his wife.’;,
The Bulletin does not notice that the Evening
News when it records the alleged fact of John
Smith having faced the bench speals of “an
Englishman named John Smii h.” What have the
nasty wicked Irish been doing to the Bennett
family, or their reporters ?
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —I read with In-
terest your leader on the “ Law and the Profits.”
Many years ago the present Lord Sherbourne ad-
vocated the total abolition of the Bankruptcy
Laws, contending that it would be preferable to
leave all questions of indebtedness between traders
and their customers to be adjusted on the same
basis as sc-called debts of honour. Practically
traders have the matter in their own hands. Too
many of them directly encourage improvidence
and reckless extravagance by affording every
facility to their clients to obtain goods on credit.
A trader cou’d most effectually protect himself by
refusing any credit unless the person seeking it
could produce a satisfactory reference from some-
one with whom he had previously dealt. Honesty
is the best policy, and would-be defaulters would
speedily discover this.—Yours, J. A. Lang.
Tamworth, Bbh April, 1889.
Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OE AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite Custom House).
London Bankers:
AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK.
2 King William Street, London, E.O.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual banking
business.
Interest on Deposits :
8 years 8J pec cent
12 Months 8 ~
T «. RinHAßnsn-w _ Managing Directs
Theatre Building.
There is no good reason why every theatre should
monopolise a block to itself or stand remote from
all other edifices like the Bubkk and Wilis
monument in Melbourne or Qaeen Victorias
statue opfoite the Sydney County Cour". On
the contrary, public convenience u promoted by
the grouping of bars, refreshment rooms, restaur-
ants and the like, under the same roof. It would
be ridiculous to waste the ground floor frontage to
great business thoroughfares which is no use what-
ever to the theatre but is extremely valuable for
shops. There can he no objection whatever to a
portion of that frontage being used for business
purposes, provided always that the theatre en-
trances between the shops are bread, numerous,
easy to traverse, and unencumbered with obstacles
of any kind. It is also imperatively necessary
that the theatre should be accessible on at least
three sides and that all modes of exit should be
always opened when the performance is over,
so that every member of the audierc) can see the
nearest way out and become accustomed to it.
For it must not be forgotten that three-fourths of
the people present in an established theatre upon
any given occasion have been in it before, and
will naturally make for the exit to which they are
accustomed whenever any panic occurs. More-
over, when the whole theatre is masked as it
generally is with a building which reaches right
to its rcof, openings from the.various circles should
lead to strong balconies facing the street, so that
those who cannot reach the staircases may have a
chance of getting int j the open air and of being
rescued by ladders and fire-escapes. In these
particulars perhaps the Princess Theatre in Mel-
bourne offers the most perfect example extant of
what a theatre should be, and the Adelphi in
London the best specimen of what it should never
be under any ci-cumstances.
. , •
Nothing can possibly be more nonsensical than
the statement that this or that theatre can be or
has been emptied within so many seconds or
minutes. In the first instance a large proportion
of the audience rises and prepares to leave before
the curtain falls and leisurely selects its path of
exit, leaving room for the rest. In the next place
the utter absence of shock secures calm and
equable movement. One thrill of fright would
send the entire throng madly plunging in one
direction, and would hopelessly congest the exit at
which they might aim. Their one security lies in
their having a perfect knowledge of many exits
all gaping open for them at once. The man who
would invent a patent electric attachment by
which every door in a theatre should fly wide open
the instant the curtain fell would do more to
secure the safety of the public than a score of
Government boards all sitting at once could
accomplish between May day and the mil-
lennium. You could not have _ put up a
panic in the old Princess’ theatre if you had
tried. Everybody knew that it could be set alight
with a lucifer match and burned to the ground in
twenty minutes. But everybody could see enor-
mous exits gaping all round them, and knew that
it was open on all sides to the streets and court-
yards. Therefore it lived its long life out, and
was comfortably removed at last to make way for
a successor built with equal regard to the public
safety. Whereas, in the Bijou just destroyed you
might often hear beauty say, with a shiver, “Sup-
pose a fire broke out iu any of those shops in the
arcade under the corridor. How should we get
out?” Masculine in'elligecce would sometimes
answer, “Through the billiard • r00m,,” for-
getful of the fact that, except for a narrow and
c oak id stabesse, the bldiard-room a'so had to be
emptied at the end of the same corridor.
• * *
Or course the Bijou Theatre has to be rebuild
but it does not seem right that it should be placed
in the same old, out-of the-way earner with its
principal entrances in a long corridor accessible by
a single stair from the street and situated over a
range of refreshment-bars blsziog with light and
always ready to catch fire. It has lasted 12 years
aid five months, and the new edifice, if it have
decent luck, cught not to be burned down until the
twentieth century has cut its first teeth, by which
time the officials who will look on supinely while
it is prepared for cremation will have retired and
forgotten their responsibility. Probably nothing
that can ba said will awaken them to the true
sense of their public duty, which is to insist that
proper care shall be taken to ensure the safety of
an audience, and to refuse to allow the owners to
rely upon the general tendency of theatres to
catch firs whan empty rather than when full. But
sometimes the public themselves succeed in open-
ing the eyes of lessees when the officials entrusted
to look after the general interc si of the community
have proved to bo lax. It is told of the noble
liaron whom New South Wales Is so proud of that
ha once upon a time flatly refused to take his wife
to a certain theatrical establishment where his
rabronage was particularly solicited. “ What!
PJaca my wife at the top of all those stairs.”
“No thank you, certainly not.” It would not
take much pressure to make the owners and lessees
open their eyes to the necessity of securing the
public safety anl with every sympathy for the
losses they have sustained in the recent fire we
I>fust that they will be badgered on all sides until
they so order matters that a man may have reason-
able hope to bring himself and his women-kind
back in safety to Bourke-street after visiting their
«how. This he had no real right to expect as long
as the late theatre existed.
N.S.W Theatrical licenses.
The ra-publication of the conditions under which
theatrical licenses are granted in New South
Wales, so far from setting at rest complaints of
the dictatorial conduct of Premier Paekes, ought
to determine the complainants to insist that their
grievance should be made a matter of parliamen-
tary action. Sir Heney Pabkes, in rejecting
Wrhain applications for the use of licensed build-
togs, acted within the limitations of existing regu-
lations ; but that he did so only shows that the
regulations themselves should be amended. By
®he first of these regulations licenses for theatrical
representations are strictly limited to the six work-
tag days of the week —“ exclusive,” as the words
fua, •• of Sunday.” But who is to determine what
is a theatrical representation? Under the regula-
tions the sole judge upon that point ia the Colonial
Secretary. Now, is the “Battle of Gettysburg”
a theatrical representation ? Is it as much so as
the oratorio of “ Moses in Egypt ?” What special
faculty has the average Colonial Secretary, or the
present particular one, to enablehim to discriminate
between the theatricality of the “Romany Rye”
and the “ Passion Play ?’’ It may be replied that
the Colonial Secretary will fall back on the advice
°« others Well, that is just what wants elucida-
tion, Who are these others to be ? Is there
sufficient guarantee that they will be able to dis-
criminate between what is sacred and what is
Profane? The bmd which, under Government
authority, performs at regular Intervals in the
Sydney parks gav<> the “Stabat Mater’ and the
Bjhsnian Gil” together one d»y last week
Will the advisers of the Colonial Secretary do
better than that? Anyhow, the names of the
members of his Council of Advice should be given
to the public.
•
But with respect to the use of licensed bail dings
on Sunday, this initial difficulty leceiyes much
greater prominence. The second regulation states
that on application from proprietors or les-ees the
Colonial Secretary may, “ under such conditions
and restiiotions as he shall think fit,” grant per-
mission for religkus services “in connection with
Christian churches ” or sacred concerts, or cor certs
not objectionable on moral grounds, to be held in
licensed buildings. Apart altogether from the
impossibility of any Colonial Secretary adequately
fulfilling the obligations assn mad in that regu-
lation, the grotesque wording of it demands that
it be withdrawn. Is the Unitarian a Christian
church? Is Spiritualism “in connection” with
the Christian churches ? And if concerts be per-
mitted because they are not objectionable on
moral grounds, there was no necessity to specify
that sacred concerts would also be permitted.
There is reason to judge that that regulation was
drafted by Sir Hbnbt Pabkss’ own hand, and
additional force is given to the opinicn when it is
remembered that whatever the regulation autho-
rises shall be “ under such conditions and restric-
tions as he (the Colonial Secretary) shall think
fit.” A multitude of meanings may be extracted
from that clause. If the entertainment be a c cn-
cert it empowers the Colonial Secretary to limit
the hymns and songs to so many verses each, to
name the instruments permitted in the orchestra,
to define the colours cf the ladies’ dress and the
length of the talented conductor’s h sir. If the
entertainment be “in connection with the Christian
churches,” the Colonial Secretary may by the
clause define the doctrines which shall be pro-
pounded. Tie Colonial Secretary is, in this
second regulation, made absolutely supreme, and
that, too, in a province and on a field of matter
where every step is not only debatable but de-
bated all the world over. With regard to the
delivery of Sunday lectures the regulations are iu
a manner silent. Lecturers are simply handed
over by them to the law already in force. But
why should that law stay longer in force ? When
the Cabinet which drew up these regulations con-
sidered the subject nearly two years ago this last
question was thecne to which main attention should
have keen directed. Instead of that a number of
ill digested and internecine notions were drafted,
with the Colonial Secretary sitting supreme upon
the top of them, and the main issue was
allowed to sleep. These regulations now lie on
the table of the Legislative Assembly, and are
once more before the eyes of members. The
session should not be allowed to close without a
notice of dissent from their tenour, where they
have a tenour, and of condemnation of their
generally unsatisfactory character, being also
tabled.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Plague of Music
Now that the Victorian orchestra scheme is
fljated, and subscribers are cimmencing to
rquabble about the advisability cr otherwise of
importing one more petulant genius as conductor,
it is time to protest against the granting of
Government aid to such enterprises, ©f all the
fine arts none is so demoralising in its close pur-
suit —i e , so prolific of unadmirable personal
qualities in its professors—as the art of producing
sweet sounds by natural cr artificial means. The
“ Heaven-born ” musician is frequently — how
frequently ! —an earthly t nob of the most obnoxious
type. Vain, jealous, affected, irritable, over-
bearing and hysterical, he has all the faults of the
women who worship him without any of their
virtues. The very skill which enables him to
soothe the savage breasts of his audience
(always provided they are not too highly
cultivated in music) somehow keeps the
soother himself in a continual slate of tantrums.
Sydney’s recent experiences with certain talented
foreigners may be cited in proof of this allegation.
When not engaged in singing like the seraphim
they were “scruffing” one another “ by the
wool,” and swearing an angry recitative of bad
language. They came from a land of song, a land
whose sons and daughters are so fatally musical
that they yell at the tenor guilty of a false note,
and cherish an undying hatred for the trombone
who blows half a bar one-third of a semi-tone below
the right pitch. Song has done little for the
Italian national character, except, perhaps, to
enervate it. Gibbon certainly did not trace the
Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire to the
growth of musical taste, but it is a significant fact
that Emperor Nero celebrated the most infamous
incident in his career by playing the fiddle,
be, doubtless, being a most excellent per-
former on that dangerous instrument. That the
great German composers have directly benefited
their country and tne world at large may be ad-
mitted ; yet the world’s gratitude to Beethoven,
Mozart, JBacp, and a dozen other shining lights
is tempered by the reflection that masters are
indirectly responsible for the sufferings ordinary
people endure at the hands (and mouths) of lO,OCO
itinerant ‘‘professors” from the Vaterland, nor
can the world forget that the country of Mozart
gave birth to the accursed German baud. Taking
also the music of modern Italy, we find Vbrdi at
oneeni and the degraded organ grinder at the
other, than which we require no more solemn
warning than a national taste for the divine art
ought not to be unduly forced. And, referring
again to the moral influence of music upon those
who live by teaching it, who will say that Heir
Fiddlestick and Signor Pianissimo are especi-
ally worthy objects for State patronage ? If
they were the manliest and most honorable of
colonists —never lounging in Paling’s or Nichol-
son’s doorway, and always endeavouring
to live within their means—would it be
desirable to devote public money to the en-
couragement of music which must tend to swell
the ranks of “ professors ’’—very high-class music
requiring years of study ere it becomes perfectly
intelligible? No. Let us by all means have
music in our souls, but don’t let too many of us
have it upon brass plates affixed to our front doors.
We want domestic music in moderation, and just
as much platform concert as the public will crowd
to hear. But if Australia cannot produce a
Beethoven without also producing more bat-
talions of impecunious professors, vagabond
blowers of wind instruments, and slimy organ-
grinders, then Australia had better remain in its
present state. No race of people under the sun
has a quicker and more intelligent ear for melody
than tne Australian. We will work out our own
musical destiny without official assistance, if they
give us time.
i
i


Dry Imperial Champagne.— Messrs. Most and Chandon
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro-
ducers in the world. Their “DRY IMPERIAL” 1884
vintage is the pure juice ol selected grapes from their own
vineyards of 2600 acres in the choicest districts in France.
The Imperial Crown is in each corner of label, and 1884
branded on oork and label.
Everybody should use Pemell's latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Floub. It is the greatest success of the
age.
“My Tailor,” 154 King Street, Newtown. Don’t forget
bins. Suits to measure for £3 3s.
Ben franklin printing office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLAKDY,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Account Book Manufacturer, &c., &o.
Maclardy’s £5 Box of Stationery a speciality >
Send for List of Contents.
Note Address—
-319 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Cards
and Fancy Goods. Inspection invited.
CORRESPONDENCE
“Melos”: (1) No occasion to argue the ques-
tion from a merely party view. The system of giving
men votes by reason of their membership of olubs is a
disgraceful one. If a club member votes he should vote
by reason of his manhood alone. The club qualification
is one of the numerous devices which up to now have
been so successfully used to increase the power of the
vested-interest party and to swamp the democratic vote.
It would ba just as fair to give an extra vote to every
man who was a member of a church, or who had a ticket
in a consultation, or who had a chair reserved for him
daily at a restaurant, or who drank a glass of beer regularly
at one particular end of a publio-house bar. The club
qualification is unjust even on a property-vote basis. A
merchant whoss freehold warehouse and stock may be
worth £lOO.OOO has only one vote in the constituency
where the warehouse is situated, whereas any little snob
with wide-check trousers and a receding forehead, and a
high collar and “tottery” knees, who conies out here
with a couple of letters of introduction and borrows £5O
to put him through at the Union Club, can place himself
upon the same electoral level with the merchant, so far as
East Sydney is concerned. As a matter of fact, a
member of a club has no real property in that club, inas-
much as he cannot under any conoeivable circumstances
secure to himself any of its assets, without buying or
stealing them. Therefore his club vote is not a property
qualification. (2.) If he lodges at the club, let him have a
lodger’s vote... “D. M'Laren,” (Olyton): Letter forwarded.
“A. J. Mackeon You object to the affairs of Ireland
being discussed in Australia, and yet you say that you
are “an Ulsterman and a loyal citizen.” How do you
reconcile these two positions? If you are a loyal subject
of the Empire you must surely admit that its affairs may
reasonably form matter of discussion in any part of the
British dominions. If the Empire is so unwieldy and
ill-united that the troubles of four or five millions of
people at one end of it are of no concern whatever to
their numerous relatives among four or five millions of
people at the other end of it, then the Empire is a sham.
That is Tub Bulletin’s view, but still while the Em-
pire exists in name we suppose we must carry on the
farce “Bulletin Admirer ” (G.T.): “Who is or was
‘ A.O. ?’ and who was ‘ Austral ?' ” They don’t stand out
boldly in our memory. As for some of the rest, if you
can cure ths sick, raiss the dead, and convert non-teetotal-
lers, come along —“ Tar-boy ” (Gunning): Idea good,
but drawing as yet rather amateurish. Have handed it to
our artist “ P.G.”: The Bulletin is not a licensed
victuallers’ organ nor is it a teetotal paper. It regards
the cause of absolute teetotalism as hopeless. The mere
fact of Australia being so splendidly adapted by soil and
climate to winegrowing will offer an unanswerable com-
mercial argument in favour of the production of wine.
As to what you say about America, mere grog is not the
bane of the American people. The chloral and morphia
victims, of whom there are scores of thousands, have cot
all passed through the liquor-stage “ D. the Whaler”:
Many thanks—“ A.L.” : “ Hay market Theatre, Lon-
don,” wi'l find Mrs. Lingard. ..“Fish hoi”: Received
“ L.C.” : The Bulletin was first published on 31st Jan.,
1880. It has appeared regularly every week since that
time, and it will go on appearing till the crack of doom..
“ W.W.”: The only Australian colonies which have land-
taxes of any kind also have Protectionist tariffs. N S.W.
has no land-tax....“ Septuagenarian ” : You have sent us
a letter evidently intended for one of the professionally
religious papers “Anthony Morgan”: Thanks. Will
gladly print it when the subject again becomes prominent.
....“Sold”: If you signed a contract and the company
has kept its part of the agreement, then you are legally
liable beyond all question. As to your statement that you
didn’t know what was in the contract, you will merely be
referred to the legal maxim caveat emptor —let the buyer
beware “Argo ” : The public don’t want to be told any
more that Mr. So-acd so is a " B A,” “ Questo” : The
Port Jackson shark is not a man-eating shark at all
“ X.Y.Z.”: The latest roll of British Peers shows that
they number 550 J.X.F.” (Nymagee): Try again
“Macclesfield H.”: All right “Quid Nunc”: The
name is pronounced Anster “AAC.”i Eclipse Stake
is not a handicap. Next Melbourne Cup will be the
richest handicap race ever competed for in the world
“Cortez”: The use of man-traps is illegal both in Aus-
tralia and in England. You can’t always “do exactly as
you like on your Own land." “Altesse”: Mr. Obed
West is now, we believe, the “oldest inhabitant” of
Sydney. Anyhow, he is the best advertised one "C.
A. Rutter ” (Bourke): Show you round with pleasure
" Boroo ”: You are wrong in imagining that Pasteur’s
rabies treatment has been a failure, although we are free
to admit that it has only been a tentative success. The
latest statistics show that for the past two years the
average mortality among persons bitten by mad dogs, and
who were not inoculated, was from 14 to 16 per cent.,
whereas the average death-rate among those who had
been treated according to the “ Pasteur system ” was
only 1 per cent “ W.M.G.” (Kam.): May work up
“OO.O.”; Maryborough (Q) is named after Mary,
daughter of Governor Fitzroy “Violet” (Prahran):
Metre defective enough to make the fortune of a gas com-
pany— “J.T.” (Thargomindah): You at e probably un-
aware that the three items in your communication are
blazing libels "North” (Ballarat): You are in error.
47 per cent, of the population of Ulster are Roman
Catholics—-nearly half, not one twentieth, as you assert..
“J. 8.” (Bourke): Received. We cannot hold out any
hope in that direction “D. Anderson” (Rockhamp-
ton) ; (1) No; it is not illegal to work on Good Friday
either in Australia or in England. (2) Thanks “ Argu-
ment”: Chang was 7 feet 3 inches high “Anglo-’
(Melbourne): Not up to the mark “A. Hinchcliffe”
(Brisbane): Received—“Q.S.”: Next week “A. J.
M‘Kye”: Will attend to the matter by next week
“W. C 1”: lb is better that the prose should be pub-
lished than the verses: —“ A few weeks ago we buried one
of our old mates, Q. M. Thorn ; he passed in his checks at
the age of 63, from bronchitis. He came to the colonies
in the early days, and was one of the kind of men who
help to build a country up. No sort of bad luck could
dismay him. He met with as many reverses as most of
the old hands did, and was taking contracts up to the
time of his death. On the next page we have scribbled a
few verses, and if you think they aie worth a corner you
will oblige by inserting them. They are well meant, so
don't be hard on us if you don’t like them.”
Mr. Leslie J. Park.
We give in this issue a portrait of Mr. Leslie J.
Park, of Melbourne, secretary to the Colonial
Mutual Assurance Society. Mr. Park is a native
of Tasmania, and a son of Dr. F. J. Park, Go-
vernment Surgeon. With but slight educational
advantages, Mr. Park has succeeded well in the
battle of life, and the popular insurance company
in which he holds office has not a more valued or
valuable servant. He commenced bis business
career in a Sydney solicitor’s office in 1853, and
after a few years drifted into mercantile life. For
over 21 years he was connected with the Australian
Mutual Provident, but since 1882 he has been
with the Colonial Mutual, and now, besides hold-
ing the position of secretary, is acting general
a anager during the absence in Europe of Mr. T.
J. Martin. Mr. Park is an ardent lover and
patron of cricket, and was for seven years hon.
sec. to the Warwick Cricket Club to which Evans,
Murdoch, the two Bannermacs, and Hiddleston
belonged.
Now that Judge Windeyee has again distin-
guished himself, by summarily sentencing two
witnesses to six and twelve months’ gaol for con-
tempt (for being drunk in ocurt), perhaps the
present New South Wales Minister of Justice,
who, we presume, has no reason to be afraid of
Judge Windeyee, will get that official and
his colleagues to explain why he or they so
pointedly refrained from taking action in
respect to gross contempts of court committed
by many newspapers of the Western Circuit not
many months ago. The newspapers in ques-
tion boldly said what they thought of Judge
Windeyee and his conduct, and if what they said
was untrue then the writers of the articles should,
in the interests of the dignity of the Supreme
Court, have been arraigned for criminal libel; if on
the other hand their statements had the slightest
foundation in fact, then ought Mr. Windeyee to
have been sent to try his luck at the Bar again.
In any case, those who presumed to comment in
such outrageous terms upon the cm duct of an
cfficer entrusted with the administration of jus-
tice should have been placed upon their defence.
The Sydney daily press carefully agreed to
suppress all direct mention of the matter when it
was brought before Parliament by Mr. Vaughn,
M.P , to whose instructive speech—folly reported
in Hansaed —the attention of Ministe r Gould is
now directed by The Bulletin. However, apart
altogether from the charges made by the Western
press, there is a long and effective indictment
against Mr. Windeyee in connect im with the
memorable Mount Bennie case and his hysterical
action with respect to the rascal Sweetman ; and
the sooner some decent member of Parliament
plucks up the necessary courage to g ; va Mr.
Windeyee an opportunity of setting himself right
with the community and making good his claim to
be a worthy colleague of such men as Chief-Justice
Dabley and Judge Owen, the better it will be for
the best interests of the Supreme Court of New
South Wales.
The three Irish parliamentary delegates
will arrive in Sydney about May 11, and will be
accorded a public reception by the central branch
cf the Irish National League. On Monday, 13bh
inst., they will ad iress a meeting at Her Majesty’s
Theatre, which Mr. George Rignold has lent free
of coat.
Mr, A. H. Jacob, who Is Chairman of
Committees of the N.S.W. Upper House at a
salary of £BOO a year, has (like all the holders of
fat sinecures) a great deal to say against the prin-
ciple of payment of members. It is to be hoped
that when Mr. Jacob’s salary is next submitted on
the Estimates, somebody will, after duly inquiring
how much work he does for his money, move that
his screw be reduced by £5OO or so,
Parkes was pushing his way through a
crowd in front of Sydney G.P.O. the other day,
when a Nooze boy turned and sharply asked,
“Now, then, who are you a shovin’?’’ “How
dare you speak to me like that,” thundered the
mighty man—“ do you know who I am, sir?”
“Rather,” replied the grinning gamin ; “ You’re
ole Parkes—the joker wot runs the Boolerteen
along with ’Opkins, an’ a dam good thing you
makes ov it, too 1”
General Boulanger, the moat prominent
stuffed show-brigand of the day, threatens to take
refuge in America, “or Sydney,” and should he
do the latter, there will, of course, be the cus-
tomary banquet and Dan O’Connor will make a
“ spalche.” In the corns aof his oration it is safe
to assert that he will allude in passing to “the
ancient Grakes” and to Dimosthinays, and draw
a hurried parallel between Boulanger and Joolius
Sayzar and William Charlus Wintworth. But in
truth we want to see Boulanger. Viewed at a
distance that agile fail back warrior and alleged
jobber of beef-contracts seems to ba a peculiar
species of harmless sheep in mail—a mixture of
Dan O’Connor and Fourteen-Flags MTvor, with
a brass band thrown in.
The Referee.
When the truth la known we believe that
the real reason for Carbine’s suddenly dropping
back to last place in the struggle for Sydney Cup
will be found in the fact that one of the other
horses’ riders flourished his whip before the
champion’s eyes. Some time ago Derrett, while
finishing with Carbine at Flemington, caught him
a terrible cut fair across the sheath; the horse at
once swerved, then stopped dead, and he seems to
have remembered that unlucky “ clip ” ever since.
A gamer horse than the son of Musket never
looked through a bridle, but the moment he
catches the first glimpse of a whip, he remembers
Derrett and goes all to piecei until the fright is
over. On two occasions he came within an ace cf
capsizing Mick O’Brien by his sudden swerving,
and the above is the only reason that Mick can
give for the few moments’ funk that comes upon
the Cup winner.
• • •
Carbine’s victory in the Sydney Cup puts
the crowning triumph on his reputation, and
entitles him to rank as the greatest three-year-old
ever produced in Australasia. He has out down
the record of the Sydney Cup to 3 31, and carried
the heaviest weight that a horse of his age has
ever carried to victory, in the time. The vic-
tor, however, is discounted a little by the fact
that Melos ran him to a head at 12 pounds,
for up to the present Melos has done nothing that
makes him out to be within 21 pounds of a real
great horse. By the way. anyone studying the
performances of Melos, Volley, and Pearlshell
since the A.J.C. Spring meeting will get a fair
grip on the reason why bookmakers glitter with
jewels and precious stones,
* * *
Carbine has beaten Abercorn at weight-
for-age, but the question arises—will Carbine,
should he undergo the same amount of training
that Abercorn has gone through in the past two
years, be a better horse at four years old than Mr.
White’s of to-day ? The question is a moot one.
• * *
The recent k.J.O. meeting was not so
prolific of coincidences as usual. Russley, who is
by Doncaster, however, very appropriately won
the Doncaster Handicap, and when Antteus, an
outsider, won the First Nursery Handicap from
the much-fancied lanthe, disconsolate backers
realised the truth of the maxim that “when
Greek meets Greek then comes the tug of war.”
• « .
Once npon a time a horse belonging to
Mr. Long won a selling race, and when put up to
auction the equine fell to the nod of Mr. S. R.
Kennedy, owing to the absence of the owner,
through some misunderstanding, when the sale
came off. Last week Mr. Kennedy’s Spoilt Child
won tie Selling Race at Rand wick, when Mr.
Long commenced to bid, and ran the horse up to
£220 before he was knocked down to his owner.
Mr. Long may have taken a fancy to the hoise,
but it looks very much like a case of tit-for-tat.
* • m
“Pro Bonn Publico ” writes to a daily
newspaper urging that, to prevent “welshing,”
each registered bookmaker be compelled to wear
his registration ticket suspended from his neck,
resting on his chest, so that a backer, without
having to aek any questions, would know he was
safe in handing over his money. The Bulletin
has a still better suggestion, it proposes that the
unknown “small fry” bookmakers be carefully
locked up all the time in a Urge iron cage in the
cantre of the ground, and that they be allowed to
do business through the bars. This is the
Brazilian method.
* •
Harry Hutchins, the celebrated EagUsh
sprinter (recently in Australia), is now a barman
at £2 a week.
* * *
In the saddllng-paddock < f the Mary-
borough (Q.) Jockey is a notice—“ Any
jockey or trainer using obscene language will be
fined.” Maryborough apparently reserves the
right of objurgation to the owners and book-
makers.
A doctor In a Queensland back-blocka
town was appointed stakeholder in regard of a
projected pedestrian contest. One of the two
competitors backed out, but the medical holder of
the booty declined to hand it over to the other on
the ground that his brother owed £lO for medical
service, and this unexpected little haul would just
rquare things.
« •
Tasmania’s champion shearer, J. Duggan,
has just shorn 186 sheep in eight hours.
* • •
Mr. W. T. Jones, owner of Bravo, has
cabled for the Ballarat horse to be sent to Eng-
land, where he is likely to make a bigger mark
than little Ringmaster. Bravo is a stamp of
animal that wins Queen’s Plates at home, and if
he can be delivered in healthy condition there is
a possibility of such a good galloper annexing the
Oaesarewitch, over 2% miles, at Newmarket.
• * *
The first prosecution of Melbourne tobac-
conists for betting on the premises fell through,
and considering that every policeman in Victoria
“has a bit on” occasionally, the fooroe is not
showing much z°al in hunting up fresh oases.
Nevertheless the tobacconist bookmaker is doomed.
The non-betting tobacconist is on his track.
• * *
An English judge has just pertinently
asked from the bench what is the use of suppress-
ing small betting-houses when Tattersali’s and the
Stock Exchange are left untouched I What,
indeed ? This question is pretty relevant in Aus-
tralia.
• • •
Black Jackson has beaten Patsy Cardiff,
of San Francisco, in a fight for £4OO. Jackson left
Sydney as a coal-trimmer in the ’Frisco mail-boat
with hardly a cent in his pocket, but by now he is.
very likely worth a thousand or two. Nobody-
will grudge him his luck.
* * •
Tom Ivory’s luck appears to be completely
out. It is not often an owner has the ill-luck to
run first in two races afterwards declared void,
and then be beaten in the run-e ff, to witTea-
tray at Rosehill, and Home Rule at Randwiok.
• • •
The following Is the result of the drawing
of “Adam Bede’s” Consultation on the Sydney
Gold Cup :—The first prize (£792) went to Tairua,
N.Z.; the second (£297), to Table Top, Croydon,
Queensland ; and the third (£198), to North Rich-
mond, Melbourne. Starters received £29 75.;
non-starters, £ll. The sweep closed with 2200
subscribers.
♦ * *
The 25-Mlle Amateur Bicycle Champion-
ship record of New Zealand was lowered the other
day at Auckland by A. G. Buchanan to Ihr.
32min. ISsecs.
* * *
The news of the death In England of Jack
Connor, the wrestler, who carried all before him
in Australia, is confirmed. Connor was a remark-
ably fine block of a man, and locked as if he
could have wrestled with a Sydney tram without
going under,
• # *
Paddy Gorman, the Australian boxer, now
in the States, sat down, and without anything
stronger than a stiff nip of whisky, had a large
tumour cut out of his forehead. When it was all
oyer, Paddy told the doctor he hadn’t anything
big in the way of coin to give, hut promised the
“ straight griffin ” for his next fight.
Pigottorial art—Forgery.
The Trocadero, a magnificently-appointed
place of resort and amusement, has just been
erected on the Newtown (Sydney) main road for
Mr. Ferris. Its various features are too numerous
to catalogue, bntamong them are a gigantic skating
rink, a luxuriously appointed billiard-room,
lounges, lavatories, and a cafe, presided over by a
hve French cook. The entire building is lighted
by electricity, and the whole complicated palace
of delight is under the management of Mr.
George Oughton.
The Rev. Rushlight Cross (apoatollcally
laying hand on Johnny’s pate): “ And how does
my little friend progress—well, I hope?” Mrs.
Teafite Sour: “ Well, doctor, I suppose I must
not grumble. His attendance at school has been
irregular, and his report is not good; however, I
am happy to say that last Sunday he brought
home a prize for proficiency in Scripture. Show
the doctor your prize, Johnny, and tell him how
you won it.” Johnny (with pitying sententious-
ness): "He can’t play under and over.”—Ex-
change.
For many mouths past the streets of
Sydney have been paved with gigantic footprints,
mostly converging on the premises where Warner’s
Safe Cure is sold to the public. On account of
their immense size most people thought these
were the boot tracks of the police force all travel-
ling in search of some remedy to keep them from
sleeping in the public thoroughfares, but the other
day the man who produced these works of art was
fined 25 3. for his efforts at decoration, and it then
transpired that the footmarks were produced by
an ingenious machine worked by hand. Getting
fined is about as good an advertisement as we
know of.
The Shearers’ Union of Queensland and
22 squatters in the West and North-West of that
colony are determined to crown their many dis-
agreements with a regular Gettysburg of Capital
and Labour. The squatters boast that they re-
present 6,000,000 sheep; the shearers boast that
they represent 5000 featherless bipeds, most of
them with bandy legs. Here’s to the bipeds, any-
way—bandy-legged and otherwise ! One peculiar
feature of the forthcoming campaign will be that
the quadrupeds will be marshalled by a Murphy,
and the bipeds by another Murphy. Thus, which-
ever side wins it will be a feather in the cap of
Gold Ireland.
The following will be found on page 230
of “Letters aid Memorials of Jane Welsh Car-
Isle,” and was written in her diary April 27,1845.
After describing some other Irish visitors to her
husband, among whom was the lamented patriot-
poet, Thomas Davis, she thus alludes to Mr,
Pigott“ As for young Mr. Pigott, I will here,
in the spirit of prophecy, inherited from my great
ancestor, John Welsh, the Covenanter, make a
small prediction. If there be. in his time, an
insurrection in Ireland, as these gentlemen ”
referring to her husband’s Irish visitors—“confi-
dently anticipate, Mr. Pigott will rise to be a
Robespierre of some sort; w ill cause many heads
to be removed from the shoulders they belong to,
and will eventually have his own bead removed
from his own shoulders. Nature has written on
that handsome but fatal-looking countenance,
quite legibly to my prophet’c eye, *Go and get
thyself beheaded, but not before having lent a
hand towards the great work of immortal smash.’ ”
I<i one of Gilbert’s fcopsy-turvey operas,
one of the most supremely ridiculous and impos-
sible passages is the passion of a middle-aged
nurse for a young man she has reared from in-
fancy, yet. strangely enough, this conceit has had
its parallel in real life. In 1865 a boy was born in
a North of England town, and, according to a
local paper, his mother dying shortly after his
birth, a buxom young woman of some 18 summers
was engaged in the capacity of wet-nurse. Child
and nurse grew up together, under the same roof,
until the former arrived at years of indiscretion;
he made love to the female who had watched over
his career—from the feeding-bottle upwards—pro-
posed to her, and, in course of time, duly led his
old nurse to the altar. He has since discovered
the charm of females nearer his own age, and how
naughtily he has behaved will shortly be detailed
in the Divorce Court, unless his aged partner con-
tents to solace her wounded feelings with a “ set-
tlement.”


Hnrgford h A«*M Phosphate
,M AKRB AN INVWORAT'NG DRINK
with and sugar only. D licious
p
*
ì
s
T
/tetNTS.
DCDSSA& PHILLIPS
v> 3&«5 Barrack Street.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal,— "Sinbad the Sailor ” p. 14.
Her Majesty’s.—" Romany Rye ”
Criterion —"Sweet Lavender" „
Gaiety Theatre,—-06 gill Brothers „
Phillip Park.— Pain’s Fireworks
The Oyolorama.— The Battle of Gettys-
burg
The Easter Pantomime at Sidney Royal
has pervaded the land for another week, and
nearly everybody connected with it has proved a
success, excepting, perhaps, the much-advertised
Miss Edith Blande. The beauteous Fanny Lid-
diard, Sophie Harris, JohnGourlay, Harry Leston,
and the unspeakable Royoe, together with a lot of
assorted devils, mixed goblins, djinns hurriedly
•slumpel together, confused afrites, ramshackle
dwarfs, cat-headed ogres, and other job lots of
'fiends only slightly damaged, have given every
-satisfaction, but the new Sinbad is frozen too
-stiff at times, and her inability to thaw out
-Is against her. When Miss Blande, as the
-cordial tar from the far East, does a warm
-embrace it seems to suggest that she is chew-
ing the other girl instead of hugging her, and
her cheerless kiss reminds us of a cold breeze
■from a palace of snow. Personally, Sinbad is
handsome and stately, and Providence appears
to have specially constructed her for tights,
hut even from a lady of her noble exterior
it is depressing to receive a salute that is
like a solemn biff from an open book, and
her magnificent stalk when in motion only parti-
ally makes up for this defect. If Mus Blande
could only cultivate a little more expression, and
could fall away somewhat in the back-bone, the
happiest results would ensue.
* * * *
4 ‘Romany Rye” at Her Majesty’s (Sydney)
is making a great hit in this world of hollow pre-
tence and outward show, and Mr. Rtgnold’s
Romany is a bright and shining lipbf, and a good
example to that ancient race of dubious Egyptian
-origin who mend the broken kettles of the Indo-
European branch of the human family and lift
their hens at early dawn. “ Sweet Lavender ”
imd her misfit benefactor pervade the Criterion,
where they gain new popularity all the
time. Among the other geniuses of the com-
pany Lucia Harwood and Frank Cates im-
prove steadily and promise to shine through
-succeeding ages. “ Whittington and his Oat,” as
-obscurely hinted last week in the most ramshackle
verses that ever appeared in The Bulletin, is
good— all but the e at, but the hopeless collapse of
she poet, who is a disgrace to the branch of litera-
ture which he occasionally affects, prevented this
4act being set forth in more definite language.
The sable troubadour still chants his lay at the
Gaiety, where the half-brick of public scor,n is laid
aside, and a few smaller shows straggle in dif-
ferent directions more or less,
* * * #
St. Vincent’s Hospital (Sydney) will bene-
fit next Friday by a grand matinee performance
at the Criterion, the baronial and vice-regal Smith
lending his countenance, which we trust will be
duly returned to him as being of no use to
anpone but the owner. The principal members of
the companies now performing at the Royg-1,
-Criterion, Majesty’s, and Gaiety, will take
Sarti, also Mr. Charles Arnold and his dog,
ladame Lablache, Signori Dimitresco, Pimaz-
zoni, and Buzzi, Miss Josephine Deakin, Miss
Lilian Tree, the "Pinafore” company, and
i sundry eminent foreign artistes with crinkled
-names like the yell a man gives when he sits
<down on some tacks. In fact, the whole of the
profession which Pastor Jefferis denounces so fer-
vently is doing its utmost to give a great lift to
the good work, but the pastor himself isn’t there
■worth a cent. It was ever thus. The conglomera-
tion of dramatic and operatic sinners is always
ready and willing when a call is made upon their
-charity, and from " Carmen ” right down to the
.nigger minstrel’s assistant scene-shifter —from the
gilded Solomon in all his glory to the man who is
responsible for the glue—they never fail to help
the afflicted, but the saint who looks down upon
them from his pinnacle of sanctity only hunts up
»g(Kne. fresh curse from the tail-extremity of Jere-
-miah and sends along a tract with a broken back.
* * # ♦
With a mighty burst of enthusiasm almost
-unparalleled in the annals of .Adelaide, the new
London Dramatic Company started their Aus-
tralian experience on Easter Saturday night in
‘"The Silver Falls,” a picture of howling.villainy
mow dragging out its unwholesome existence at the
.Adelphi Theatre, London. The dwellers in the
foity of holy contemplation haye turned out to s a
>man to see the new importations, and ,the latest
iideal aristocrat, Lord Rintore, specially anointed
tfor South Australia, has generously accorded his
(presence. As to "The Silver Falls” itself, it
iia a shade better than some ,pf the *' Australian ”
tdramas of the same sort, but that is all. It is
(founded on the immoral character of a mysterious
-operatic Mexican lady with several husbands, who
-has cleaned out almost all the giddy young men in
tithe French capital. This jfly-away Aztec siren is
deeply attached to a depraved slouch, who hasn’t
-any coin but spends money in stacks all the same;
and she is also the mistress of a shiny heath ep
who hangs, out in her own native land—that land
cf poetry and song, where (Popocatepetl and
similar geographical expressions crop up per-
sistently iu the short metre cf the _ local
bard; and on top of this she marries a
young Englishman of noble lineage whose
moral character is purer than a pious hymn.
An antiquated nobleman, who is shovelled into
the piece on an insecure basis, however, discovers
the lady’s antecedents and her unsavoury reputa-
tion, and after an uncomfortable row, the husband
gets hypochondriacal and departs for the Mexican
.goldfields. Here, he very stupidly gets thrown
■from his horse and is badly knocked about, but
(farmer Maguire’s niece cares for him tenderly, and
when he becomes convalescent he commits bigamy
with her, under a mistaken impression that his
operatic spouse has gone to chirp on another shore.
The wedding night is boisterous, however, and
replete with Iron thunder and quarts of peas fall-
ing on the floor to represent rain, and in the midst
of the gale a soaked spectre stained with mud puts
in for shelter —it is the Mexican wife, and she
hasn’t shuffled off after all. The man who hasn’t got
any money but spends it all the same reaches out his
■comprehensive claw for a plan showing the spot
where six barrowloads of gold have been planted,
but half of it gets torn and the other half isn’t
any good. The Mexican gentleman follows his
old flame to Santa Rosa, and as he does not seem
-quite satisfied with her recent behaviour, he prods
a pieca of cold spike through her, and then looks
annoyed with himself for doing it. This tragedy
cleats up a lot of tangled infamy, and a faint ray
of sunshine beams upon the crying improbabilities
■ of the "Silver Falls.” The tcattery by John
-Brunton is magnificent, and the actirg is good—a
great) deal too good for the drama. Further par-
ticulars as to the company are held over till next
week, by which time the haze of assassination
and bigamy may have partly cleared up.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —At the Sydney
Criterion Theatre on Sunday niarht, 28th April, I
heard M. Kowalski play “Triumphal March—
‘Carbine,' ’• the authorship of which was on the
programme attributed to a Sydney cemposer—pos-
sibly by an error of the poor lying printer. The
air seemed very familiar to me, but the composer
of it, unless I am very much mistaken, does not
live in Sydney. He lives in Vienna, and is a
friend of mine; his name is J. N. Krkl, and he
called his piece “ Hoch Habsburg” when first I
heard it.—Skkvia. P S.—lf under a misappre-
hension I shall be glad to be set right. Strange
c are constantly happening.—S.
* * t *
Those whom the “ goda ” love dii young.
And Nellie Farren is—well, not young.
* * * #
Maggie Oliver, who delighted many play-
goers ia the good old diggings days, now iffioiates
as the hostess of a Sydney pub,
« * ♦ #
The only Brough and the unique Boucl-
cault, the fruit of whose labour was so cruelly con-
verted into ashes, have begun to fight their battle
o’er again at the Hibernian Hall, Melbourne, a
new and smart structure situated one pebble’s
pitch from the Public Library in Swanston-street.
If the unsentimental citizens of the Marvellous
City refuse to recognise that Messrs. B, and B.
have a special claim upon their patronage and
support, they—the citizens aforesaid - may be in-
duced to wander some few yards off the beaten
theatre track when they understand that “Betsy ”
is as excellent a show at the Hibernian Hall as it
was at the late lamented home of polished comedy.
None of the famous B’jou company perished
in those flames, ffibheradge is not a calcined
memory of the past nor is Anson a heap
of smoking ruins. Pattie Brown is there, irre-
sistible and unsinged. They are all there more
than ever, Since the first night, necessary
arrangements for patching echoes ere they fly,
have been duly made. The whole aspect of the
auditorium is bright and cheerful, and a two-,
shilling seat in the balcony may be specially re-
commended as being the very best article in Mel-
bourne at the price. With such a company plaj ing
such a comedy under such circumstances the
Hibernian Hall ; (next to Public Library, trams
pass the door and plenty of pubs, handy) should
be the Mecca of pleasure-seekers—a place to be
visited by every man who looks towards salvation,
and who hopes to escape that other fire which
burneth for ever and ever.
* * * #
“ yeoman of the Guard ” filled the
Princess’s each night last week, but generally
speaking it was received with a cold, hard stare,
indicating that this hemisphere requires time to
reflect. Sassiety seems to shudder somewhat at
the gruesome fac simile of an executioner’s block,
and the girls don’t regard the chief artist (a
masked framework in sable tights) as though they
wanted him to stay and rest his weary axe upon
their breast. The assistant tormentor is a success
however, but the balance of the opera would
develope more meaning if the people who can
sing were to effect a compromise with the people
who can act. The music improves on acquaint-
ance, except only Nellie Stewert’s chief air, which
is like a psalm for the first five minutes, and at
last comes to a blessed termination vdbh a high
note that inveigles the unthinking into demand-
ing a few yards of the melody all over again.
Unhappily, too, the prettiest thing in the opera
falls to the new contralto, Miss Ameris, who
sings like a voice from the cellar stealing up-
wards through the coals. To be continued in our
next,
% % # #
At the Royal, the “Ealing Passion” is
still strong in death, besides many other things
not mentioned before. A sudden shower of real
rain descends upon one scene in this overpowering
drama, with such fidelity to nature that the lean-
ing characters have to call a lot of real hansom
cabs and drive through the deluge, the behaviour
of the cab-horses in this crisis being a credit to the
animal creation. Miss Kate Bishop s balloon ad-
venture, commencing at the Crystal Palace and
ending on the raging sea, passeth all understand-
ing, and when she empties a six-chambered
revolver into the guilty leg of Bland Holt, who
complains that the intrepid girl is mistaking him
for a shooting-gallery, the cap of joy runs over at
its rim.
# * # *
“Shamua O’Brien ”,keeps the Irish ques-
tion boiling at the Alexandra, and times are
exceptionally good at the Victoria, but Professor
Kennedy’s show is being rapidly wiped out by
SQine performing, fleas, which give a more intellec-
tual entertainment and make everybody itch.
’ ' ' * * tt *
The great Shakespeare boom at Melbourne
Opera House was advanced a' third stage On
Saturday night, when more people than could get
a fair look at Hamlet ttod over each other and
nearly sijff mated their beloved Governor, m order
to discover whether the melancholy Dan& was as
mad as he used to be, or not mad, and, if not
mad, why he said hO was and what he meant by
continually talking to himself and telling his best
girl to go to a nunnery. Metaphysicians will dis-
cuss the quality of Hamlet’s madness while this
planet holds out, and the Immortal Bard will go
on chuckling at each fresh interpretation of lines
which he wrote when he was drunk, and never
attempted to understand after he had sobered
up. But it is against nature to assume
that Hamlet was safae when he asked h.s
love, his little pansy blossom, retire from the
world—and quickly, too. Therein madness lies,
and this point being settled by The Bulletin,
once and for all it follows that Mr. Miln a per-
formance would be sharply criticised-not by
medical men, few of whom know madness when
they see it, hut by any intelligent keeper from a
lunatic asylum. Mr. Miln doesn’t always suggest
the nervous excitement of a man who has con-
versed with a ghastly apparition, yet in his im-
mediate dealings with the perturbed spirit of his
pa the tragedian is great. During the immortal
interview with his royal mother, Hamlet followed
an invisible ghost with a gaze that struck terror
to the public soul and caused a lady in the stalls
to faint on the spot. No more powerful piece of
acting has been seen on the Australian stage for
many a day. It was Mr. Miln’s finest effort up
to date, and will be riveted in the memories
of those present by the demonstration that
it called forth. For the rest the new Hamlet,
robed in a divided skirt, is a very priestly seeming
young man who sits overmuch, and is heavier in
the part than he would be if he went mad. Miss
Louise Jordan was unsn'mously accepted as the
ideal Ophel a —a s*eet-f»ced tpirituelle creature
whose every glance is a poem, and each particular
turn of the head a sculptor’s dream. Moreover,
Ophelia’s madness is so genuine and gentle as to
be painful to look upon, and if Miss Jordan can
do much more like this she will fill a long felt
want and satisfy a growing demand for the sublime
and unattainable.
• • «
Miss Kate Douglas, a lady who can act
badly enough when she chooses, upset all calcula-
tions by her very excellent performance as
Hamlet s volatile relative. The Ghost and a few
other deserving objects must be held over, while a
solemn curse is being prepared for Oirio, a person
that needs reforming altogether. “ Hamlet ” is
set up in a style new to the younger generation,
and for that reason, as well as for the reason that
Mr. Miln has got the public in his benign grip,
the good old catalogue of horrors is bound to draw.
** # *
Next Saturday afternoon Miss Isabel
Morris takes a farewell benefit at Melbourne
opera House, previous to returning to the Slates.
## # *
The lavish men of Sm dibourne have
started a testimonial for the two eminent
comedians whose property lies buried under the
ashes of the smouldering Bijou, and a considerable
amount has already been volunteered by Messrs.
Brough and Bouoicault’s admirers, the firm of
Williamson, Garner and Musgrave heading the
list with £lOO Messrs. Brough and Bpuoicault
have done a great deal for the Australian stage,
and all who love the dramatic art must be,pleased
to see the east wind tempered to the shorn funny
man in the hour of his disaster.
♦* # #
Composer Cowan, on hla return to Eng-
land, was asked if it was true that he had com-
posed an Australian symohony, to which the
£5OOO-musician replied ; “ No, I have not begun,
nor do I see my way at present to undertaking
any work Inspired by the kangaroo, the bush, the
‘ ’possum,’ or the everlasting gum-tree. There is
really no available colour, and nothing one can
illustrate musically.” Yaas, Mr. Oowan, but
there’s the colour of the beastly Horstralian’s
money, which l%ttsr ought to jingle prettily in any
symphony.
*# # #
As to this week's London cablegram stat-
ing that “Silver King’’-Jones’ new play, “has
been hissed,” The Bulletin predicts that it will
be found th»t whatever the new play’s merits or
demerits, the hissing was the result of a well-
organised conspiracy. Mr. Jones has hitherto
been the slave of certain advertising humbugs who
have claimed part of the credit o! his work to his
face, and the whole credit when his back was
turned. In London (and elsewhere) the man who
writes a play very often cannot get it produced in
a good theatre at any price unless he allows it ,to
be stated that the manager or somebody is part
author of a work evolved from the playwright’s
own brain alone. A vary suspicious circumstance
is the he) that somebody should have taken the
trouble to wire abc,ut the hissing all the way to
Australia.
** * *
The man who wrote “We don’t want to
fight, but by Jingo if we do,” stated in court
lately that he received £2OO for the copyright
thereof.
#* * #
In the theatre at Weimar, In Germany,
not long ago, there were only seven persons in the
house The pit took offence at the miserable act-
ing of a performer, and hissed him energetically,
whereupon the manager had out his company, and
out-hissed the audience.
** * #
Finding the actresses’ stolen jewellery ad-
verbisieg dodge is played out, Mrs. Brown-Potter
has jusn tost a £l5O bracelet down a washstand
pipe.
«# # #
A curious paragraph appeared the other
day, evidontly writtno by a woman, which stated
that the popular notion that men went crazy over
Mary Anderson’s boauty is not true. It seems
that it is women who admire Mary. She is not
what is called a man’s woman, but a woman’s
woman. There is a notable fact touched here.
Rose Cogblan or Mrs. Langtry will attract more
men than Mary Anderson, but women do not care
for them. This perhaps is mainly became Mary
utterly lacks the quality of eeasuousness. Men
like to be warmed as well as illumined by female
beauty, and one glance of Mrs. Potter’s dainty
face will create more thrills than a whole gamut
of Mary’s facial magnificence.
«* # #
The musical critic of London Times gets
£450 a year and an allowance of 7s. 6i. for every
concert he attends.
** * *
There is now being promoted in London
an exhibition of historical shoes. The Bulletin
implores Dan Yell, Im Pay, to lend his “ brogue ”
to the show,
*# # #
Speaking of Dmlbresco’s warbling, “ Come
into the garden, Maud,” a daily paper “ pro-
juioe-report” critic indignantly ados : “ Why ever
will French and Italian artists attempt to sing in
English ?” . Well, if it comes to that, “ why ever
will English people who are not artists attempt to
sing in French and Italian?! Whan Dimitresco
and Loblache warble we get the music, even if we
get nothingelsa, but with the majority of our Rock-
tin thercra dil-orther-deep howlers we get neither
one thing nor the other.
■'# * * #
Little Luscomba Searelle, the composer,
has, it is said, made a fortune out of land and gold
mining speoul ition in the Transvaal. It is claimed
that he has now under his control all the principal
theatres in South Africa.
#* * #
The phonograph has been introduced Into
a new blood-and-thunder drama in London, and
records the confession of a murderer who is con-
victed of the crime on the sole testimony of the
machine that never lies. Henceforth the stage
detective in his long ulster, slouch hat and
palpably false whiskers, who comes forward to
claim his prey to music, will be dispensed with.
For this relief mnch thanks !
** * ♦
Fifteen hundred folks visited the Gettys-
burg Oyolorama at Sydney on Easter Monday.
In the foreground a silhouette, detached from the
groups of figures, comes up the hill towards the
platform. The sun falls full on his face, and as
he looks up towards the crest of the hill from
under his slouched hat he blinks slightly with his
weaker eye. A lively young girl from the country
seeing this exclaimed loudly, “ Oh, Jane, look at
that horrid man—he is actually winking at me.
And then in a lower tone : “If it had been an
officer or the lecturer I would not mind so much.”
P.S. —The lecturer himself wrote the foregoing.
Men are just as conceited as women.
** * *
In Franca, by the theatrical code, any
actor kissing an actress against her will can be
fined by the management. But there is no remedy
when the manager himself takes to the practice.
## * *
Theatrical dog story from America :
Since our last meeting (said the tragedian), I have been
supporting the celebrated dramatic dogs, ‘‘Terror,” and
“ Leviathan,” assisted by the talented young actors and
authors, the Blank Brothers. I enacted the heavy villain,
la each act I desperately assaulted the suffering heroine,
to be in turn torn to pieces by the canine heroes. In each
aoi they were to feast upon a different portion of my
anatomy, and for each occasion ,1 had a sole leather pad
adjusted to receive the assault. In the first aot when I
•saidtoths maiden, “Fair maiden, resistance is useless.
You must, you shall ba mine,” the prompter threw on a
dog from the right wing. “ Terror ” wagged bis tail good
nanuredly and looked up into my faoa ia a friendly sort
of way ; then he sat down and bagan to scratch himself
behind the ear with his left foot. “Bite him, Terror!”
shouted the prompter from the wing. “ (Jo on, bite im,
you 1 Why the ?” Meantime the maiden was
screaming for help, and I was repeating speeches from
ajl of the maiden-pursuers that I had ever played , The
louder the author swore in the second entrance, site louder
the audience laughed, and the harder the dog scratched,
FmaTy, fearing Terror might lie down and go to sleep. I
seizedlnm by the ears, pulled hisnose up againstmy throat,
and held hi m there while we struggled desperately about
the stage, the heroine screaming and the orchestra play-
ing forte, till curtain. Tnen the prompter and author
kiehed the dog all over the stage in four different
languages.
** * *
Somebody writing to the Era (that back-
scratching trade journal of English actors) touch-
ing the lack of enthusiasm shown by Melbourne
as compared with London theatre-goers, attributes
said apathy to “an inability to distinguish good
plays from bad ones.” This is an asinine explana-
tion on the face of it. Australian audiences —
Melbourne being the same as Sydney, Adelaide
or Brisbane in this respect—receive theatrical
performances as they receive every other class of
pageant, with little display of personal feeling
towards the performers. They turn out in tens of
thousands to see an Eight-hours Procession, but
their undoubted pride in that celebration of a
great event doesn’t inspire them to make much
noise over it. They stand around when the
Governor anives at some festive scene, yet neither
cheer nor hiss the great man. So at theatres, they
treat shows and showmen with critical coolness,
seldom “guying” duffers, and only in excep-
tional cases enthusing Over their favourite?,
but nevertheless delivering a shrewd verdict
according to the evidence —when they get
home. No excited calls for “author” are
heard in Australian theatres, because the
author isn’t there, and his play isn’t new, any-
how. Players, too, appear in such a rapid suc-
cession o! different pieces that they lose their
personal interest for the public, who see them ten
times as often as London audiences might. All
the same, the Kangaroo does occasionally demon-
strate in very geneious style at what is highest
and bast ia theatrical art. The applause given to
Mr. Miln at Melbourne Opera House these last
few weeks should be a crusher for the local cor-
respondent to the Era, unless that purblind
observer is of opinion that the late William Shake-
speare wrote bad plays.
** * *
lb la understood that Mr. William Jones,
the secretary of the English Peace Society who
lectured last week In Sydney, has been invited by
Sir Samuel Griffith to visit Brisbane. Sir Samuel
is an enthusiast on the subject of arbitration for
all kinds of disputes. He, of course, holds that
the contending parties shall each be entitled to
employ counsel. War he declares to be inhuman
and the greatest general to be no more than the
greatest butcher. By the way, Sir Samuel is just
now holding out his hand among his private
friends for subscriptions to help to build a statue
to the late H. Richard, the Welsh Apostle of
Peace.
*# # *
Long ago the Amerlcm critics discovered
that Mrs. Brown-Potter could not act, though it
was admitted that she had some personal charms.
Even this latter admission of Mrs. 8.-P.’s
histrionic capabilities are now being discounted by
the fact that her legs are not specially admirable.
The distinguished j ournalist who was told off to
“do” her understandings, writes
They are Bernhardtesque, and only a trifle heavier than
the famous Frenchwoman’s. They are long, very slender,
frail, but they are shapely, having the Hogarthian line
above and below the knee, and yet are too long and nar-
row. These legs express beauty, but not comfort or
liberality. They are parsimonious. The true leg is gener-
ous, like true art; the perfect leg lacks nothing and with-
holds nothing. But the especial thing about Mrs. Potter’s
legs is not what they are or are not, so much as that she
displays them, and man and women talk about them and
fill the theatre. Ib is only when she stands in certain
positions, or as she moves in rapid flights across the stage,
or in her windings and convolutions about her lover’s
body, that the outline of her legs is seen hiding the view
through her dress. The apparent exhibitions of the legs
themselves, in oink reality, are even more fleeting and
less certain. That is why the men in the audience dart
forward as one man, They never are confident, are kept
on tenterhooks, always on the eve of a satisfactory view,
and never getting it. The women, better schooled and
less interested, remain quietly in the seats. But even the
women keep their eyes riveted on the stage.
#* * *
The two benefits given In Melbourne to
John Hennings, on whom the hand of misfortune
has fallen heavily of late years, realised close upon
£lOOO.


Wolfe’s S
Is more M holesome than
BEANDY or WHISKY
And la a
Para Raf resiling Reveraga-
Ba ?»o WoiPS’a
When next you bike try Pemell'a Snow white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow-
IWBST BOROifiA the New Perfume. Mann •
faotured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. 6d,,
55., and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you (ret the genuine.
BRANDTS tONGMORE, 138 Bourke st., East,
MELBOURNE
For civility, comfort, and all the luxuries
of a really first-class establishment, the Grand
Hotel, Wynyard-square, canrot be surpassed. It
is supplied with splendid billiard-rooms, elegant
suites of apartments, and unrivalled liquors, and
is fitted up with every appliance invented by
modern civilisation to make life pleasant. The
cuisine is second to none ine Sydney, and no effort
is spared to make the patr ons ofjthe Grand Hote
'thoroughly oomfortabe-
The English People’s William
Is the grand old W.G.,
But Australia’s People’s William
la the Famous Billy Tea.
Packed Osly by
JAMES INGLIS & OO. f
4 and 6 Dean's Place,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Why do American Hop Bitters cure to much?’’’
“Because they g\ve good diicestion, rich blood, aid
healthy acticn cf all the organs.”
Bona Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress suits for sole or hire. Letters promptly
attended to bv QUITTENTON BROS., Hi
Russell street, MELBOURNE.
Dlngmau’s electric • soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearsc3 in the Australian market.
It w ill cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of “elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case of cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de lain s, and the finest fabrics. It re-
moves paint and grease stains from clothing with
very little labour ; indeed, if it will perform half
what is claimed to be within range of its powers,
its introduction into our househo’ds will be quite
a startling d m stic revolution.
The Brickbat.
[SLUNG BY "TITUS SALT."]
S me day, when an experienced mathema-
tician is in search of employment, it might be
worth his while to lort oui to some exttnt the
awful tangle and complication of Chinese arith-
metic, and put the multiplication table on a firm
basis in the country where the Brother of the Sun
contorts himself upon his throne. Fot all the
ehrthly things that are tied up in a hard knot
all added together and multiplied by the square of
iJheir own Unspeakable confusion would hardly
begin to compare with the aggregate shiftiness and
iinfixableness of the smallest and most ordinary
subject in Chinese literature, where all the 80,000
characters in the Chow dialect are not sufficient to
decide how far it is from here into the next street.
A Chinese mile is made up partly of the distance
you have to go, partly of the time it is likely to
take jmu to get there, and mostly of the obstacles
ihat you will probably meet on the way; and it
also takes into consideration whether anybody ia
likely to st >p you hn routb and bow long it will
take you to get away from him, the state of your
physical health as judged by your informant, your
sobtiety and general character, and the nature of
the weather ; and aa likely as no* after sizing up
all those considerations the estimate is further
based on sundry unreliable data as to whether you
don’t really intend to go to some other piece alto-
gether. A thousand “cash” make a dollar
In China—sometimes, and at other times
there are as few as 330 “crsh” in the
dollar, according to how the other man feels,
and when he is feeling half-way between the two
then there ate 700 cash ia the dollar. If there are
two men involved in the transaction then the
Value of the dollar is generally a compromise
between the way they both feel on the subject. A
tael is a rough average between 5s. 01. and7<s.,
and measures of weight are there or thereabouts
more or less often. A Chinaman hardly ever
knows his own age, bub if he says he is 20 and
someone else tells him he is 50, he replies that it
is“alleeli.” His name alters according to the
part of the country he is in and various other
circumstances, including his grandfather ; and his
rank depends largely on what has happened to
his brother ; and he is liable to be beheaded or
bambooed any day on account of his uncle’s un-
lawful proceedings or because of some incident
connected with his grandson. Altogether the
Mongol is hopelessly ungetatable in all his stages,
and if someone could sorb him out of his present
complication he would do a good turn to a hszy
and badly-tangled idol&bor who is done up in a
hard, knot.
* • *
A stranger who was dismantled and un-
done told a pitiable story the other day in a Mel-
bourne ppl'ce court. He was a son of the bush,
and Providence had cast his lot where the peace-
ful cow hangs out upon the grass rather than amid
the clamour of cities; but beiag possessed of an
evil spirit and desirous of a spree he came to town
one day - and got druck. He examined strange
liquors at innumerable hotels, and leaned up
before uncounted bars b;eathing forth whisky and
profanity, and lurched against countless barmaids,
and fell heavily into tobacconists’ shops where he
chewed rqystorious cigars—and then there came a
blank, during which he seemed to be nowhere, in a
manner of speaking, and all was dusk and
vacancy. How he got into this state of empti-
ness he is unable to tell, but his last waking recol-
lection was that the earth wss vanishing from
underneath, his feet, and that he was being
abolished never bo return. The epoch cf his un-
consciousness may have lasted for a minute and a
half, or possibly for a year—he really doesn’t
know. At all events when he woke up he was
being arrested for driving a cab at full gallop
through the city, also for hollering a bacchanalian
song in a hoarse tons of voice and being covered
with mud and having his hat stove in, and further
for having heaved tfie licensed driver of the vehicle
cfif-. his perch into the road and taken his place by
violence. Tee cab was a cumbersome, four-wheel
contrivanei opening at the back, and in the interior
lay a huge mound of human flesh with its bonnet
askew and one cf its boots tied on to its ear, audits
head, decorated with an awful black eye, hanging
out of the door. It had two immense feet covered
with loose earth, and in one hand it clutched a
jumping jack and in the other a dish-cloth. This
spectre was also taken into custody, and when the
evidence had been collected it proved to be a
blushing, girly bride whom the stranger had
married in his period of imbecility. From the
roof of the vehicle the police further hauled down
a male scarecrow of 43 who had camped there
with a bottle —a paitially-shod goblin with three
old hats, who, bo judge from outside evidence,
lived by wheeling damp vegetable mould in a
hand cart; he was the brother of the happy wife
with the dish-cloth and the jutnpingj?ck, and had
been best man at the wedding. The position was
explained to the miserable husband at the police
office, and he made an effort to cast off the whole
family, and explained that he had evidently been
swindled in a cateleplic moment, but the bride
produced a certificate of marriage wl ich had been
used to wipe up a quantity cf spilt beer with, and
he gave in and acknowledged the relatioashio and
paid the fines for the whole crowd. The ultimata
fata of the household is nob known, but after leav-
ing the police court they were observed to wabble
into the nearest pub ic house, and at latest advices
no one appeared to have seen them come out.
« « f
A few returns concerning the British mis-
sions to the pore heathen during the past year
have just come to band, and as far as can be
gathered from them the alleged Christian faith
doesn’t seem to hum. In Eaypt, Persia, Pales-
fne, and Arabia a larger effort than usual was
made, no less than 119 expensive preachers being
on the job—and as usual not one convert resulted.
There were two “ inquirers,” one a negro, the
other an Egyptian ; but after locking at the par-
ticulars of the Protestant creed, as bottled for
exportation now-a days, they said it was a fool of
a tiring, and went away; la Arabia a sick robber
and aseassin who was at the gates of death was
brought round by the kind attentions of the pastor
in charge of the district; he declined to turn
Christian, and stated that he would be darned
first, but out of compliment to his preserver he
promised not to perpetrate any more brigandage
for ten days. The ten days being up he resume 1
his calling, and oha relatives of several people
whom be has since murdered feel deeply grateful
to the preacher who hea’ed him and turned bin
loose. Iq Syria one inquirer offered to rank as a
hopeful convert at a salary of £1 a month, bub
after collecting his pay for some time he was
offered a larger salary to be a promising proselyte
to the Catholic faith, and he went off to the
Jesuit mission. A disagreement afterwards
arose in this quarter, and the promising one,
finding hi A screw stopped ia both places,
is now wallowing in Mohammedanism and inciting
his countrymen to throw broken pots at the
bearers of glad tidings. During the year over
£23,000 has been spent on English missions to
this one districb, and the broken pobs thrown by
this indignant renegade are the sole result. Au
appeal was made to the generous soul of Britain
for £ICOO in aid ff Father Damien's minis'uy to
the lepers of Honolulu—the mi sionary bung
unable to come and stump the country for the
money in person, owing to the Let that he has
himself become a leper and is a prisoner in per-
petual quarantine aloner with his congregation,
but the money was not forthcoming. Of such is
the Kingdom of Heaven.
The Secret of England’s GreatceEB —Mar-
shall's Tonic Nervine.
An English syndicate with a capital of
£10,000,000 has been formed to secure the lager-
beer breweries of St. Louis.
A London corpse was recently In the
un'que position of having two coffins provided for
its reception !—the corp-e's executor supplied one
and deceased's brother the other. There was
much feeling displayed between the two over the
A DUMB ANIMAL.
CAPTAIN'S WIFE (to boy, who had hit, the ship' s cockatoo): “IF I SEE YOU DO
THAT AGAIN I’LL BOX YOUR EARS. YOU OUGHT TO BE KIND
To DUMB ANIMALS.”
BOY: “DUMB, YER SAY! WHY HE AINT DUMB-HE JUST SWEARS AT
ME AS BAD AS THE SKIPPER,”
matter, which eventually found its way before a
magistrate, who deeded in favour of the executor’s
coffin on all the issue s.
An action for libel against the Grenfell
(N.S W.) Vidjtte is pending. Tne editor has
called a Protectionist a Freetrader. This is in-
deed a horrible libel.
The la’est therapeutic novelty la called
“ Lechage,” the tongue of the dog being the active
agent in the cure. The treatment is prescribed
for nervous and skin diseases.
At Madras (India) lately a respectable and
affluent white resident got mad with a “nigger ”
and shot him dead. He was found gui ty of perr
petrat ng “a rash and negligent act,” and was
fined £4 ss. 5d., and yet somehow India is not
contented with the blessings of British rule, and
the heathen continues to rage.
P/om time Immemorial the Koreans have
closed the gates of their principal city at nightfall,
and it is death to the guardsman who opens them
to admit anyone during the hours of darkness.
The result is that generations of belated Koreans,
who could not'get'in at the gate, have worn a
staircase 6f crevices in the wall by which to mount
to the gate tower, and ropes are provided with
which the guardsmen will haul them up for
regular fees, of which the mandarins get a per-
centage. But the gates remain closed.
“ How do you earn yonr living ?” asked
the perky solicitor of Mrs. Publiohouse. “By
selling drinks, sir.” “Are your drinks good?”
“Better than your manners.” “You must be
respectful, madam.” “It ishard to be respectful
to a man whom I got the Chinese cook to pull by
the heels from under the c.ffeerocm table this
morning ” “ Mto'arti do you mean that to apply
tomef’ “Yes, sir.” “ Your worship, I decline
to examine this person any further.’’— Exchange
The old classical Maori langu?g», abound-
ing in poetic similes, startling metaphors, aid
mystic reference s to an almost forgotten mythology,
is now almost extinct. With a few exceptions,
all the stout old tatooed rangitiras have departed
via Cape Reinga to the land of spirits, and the
Maori spoken to-day ia much adulterated with
Maori equivalen’a for English words. Amongst
Europeans there are barely half-a dozen who could
understand an oration by one of the old chiefs,
and these would include Mr. James Mackay,
Bi-hop Hadfield, Sir George Grey, and the Hon,
E, Mitchelson.
At Canterbury (Eng.) one of the largest
and he t attended Anglican churches, has attached
to it, a salary of if a year. A few miles away,
th ra stands a bit of b:e ken wall where a chu- bh
collapsed from old age and senile decay some 250
years ago. All the gospel has dr- pped cut of it
long since ; the pulpit and pews have been tak<m
away for firewood ; the remote descendants of the
congregation have drifted off into other parts aid
left tie locality desolate ; and except where an
occisional trg suns himself on the broken found-
ation there is no.hing about it except desolation.
But all the same an incumbent is regularly
appointed, and he draws £3OO a year with painful
regularity because there used to be a church ia
that howling waste sometime in the days when
Henry YIII, was in his last stages of fat and was
dying under the superincumbent load of his own
inhuman grease.
Iq some parts cf the Tyrol a peculiar and
beautiful custom prevails among the peasantry.
When a peasant girl is going to be married,
before she leaves her home to go to the church her
mother gives her a handkerchief, which is called
the “ handk,9rohi» f.” It is made of newly-
tpon linen, and has never been used. She is sup-
posed to dry her tears with this when she leaves
her home and when she stands at the altar. After
the marriage is over, and the bride has gone with
her husband to her new home, she carefully folds
up the handkerchief and places it unwashed among
her little treasures. So far it has done half its
duty. Her children grow up, marry and go away
to new homes, each daughter receiving in her
tur,a a new "tear handkerchief; ’ and yet the last
present, the present received from her mother,
has not fulfilled its objec'’. Years roll by, and
the once young and blooming bride becomes a
wrinkled old woman, having outlived perhaps her
husband and all her children. At last, when the
weary eyelids,are closed for ever, the “ tear hand-
kerchief” is taken from its resting-place and
spread over the placid dead face. — Figaro.
In giving evidence before the N.S.W.
Commission of Inquiry into the construction of
public tanks and wells a well-known Cobar
squatter plaintively and pathetically comp’ained
that the Government by leasing 640 acres with
each tank, had turned the lessees into “small
i quattera.” The same witness afterwards stated
that he had 350 000 acres on his own run. Conse-
quently the 640-acre man must be a very small
squatter, indeed. This little episode, however,
shows very clearly the unconscious c’ass-bias and
incorrigible class-selfishness of at least one Wes-
tern squatter. The demands of the Bourke squat-
ters, as formulated in their demands to Minister
Brunker, furnish another instance. They de-
manded to have 12 months’ notice before any
homestead lessee could come on their runs, as well
as to have three quarters of the resumed area
thrown back into the leaseholds. This was in-
tended to kill homestead lessees, another class cf
“small squatters ” As the pastoral lessee can
very easily eat the heart out of the country in
three months, hfs demand tor 12 months’ notifica-
tion is unnecessary. (As 350,000 is to 640, so is
the squatter to the small squatter )
“ The Australian colonies are a democracy
tempered by bank- clerks.’’—Exchange,
The New York Herald, London edition,
has been giving its readers as a treat two verses
from one of Thackeray’s best-known poems, which
it avers have never been published before !
The “Divine right of kicgs I” Srya an
English paper
The heir to the ti rone of France was slaughtered by
savages ; the heir to the throne of Ho'land died a miserable
death; ihe fce'r to the throne of Germany just fived to
grasp the sceptre and then saccumh to an agonising
malady; ftehe'r to the throne cf Russia saw his father
assassinated, and has he : n in constant terror of assassina-
tion ever since he ascended the throne; the heir to ths
throne of Austria di d under ci-oumstancfs of ho’ror un-
equalled in the modern Chronicle cf Kings ; the King of
Bavaria committed suicide, and dragged his companion
with him to death ; the King of Spain saw his young wifs
die under circumstances of the greatest suspicion, and,
havirg m-rried again, was soon stricken down by an in-
curable disease, ani passed away long ere his priaio,
leaving a baby in long clothes as his successor.
Editor Bulletin. —Sir,—Having fcr nine
months traversed the length and breadth of
Riverina without finding employment, save a
week or two at a time, I came to Sydney some five
weeks since—imagining that things could not
be worse in that city than they were in the
country —but to my surprise I find there are at
least as many men out of employment in Sydney
as were ever known before, even in the worst cf
times. Surely this indicates something wrong in
the fiscal policy of N.S.W. Had not the Corn-
stalks better interview some of their oldest
aboriginals, who might have heard from their
fathers which system was in force in Australia
when Captain Cook landed —a Freetrade or a
Protective policy. When Cook arrived the whole
population were, I believe, supplied with splendid
cloaks made from skins of various animals—which
were used for bed-clothes at night and as a pro-
tection from the weather during the day. I pre-
sume that these cloaks were not imported—if so,
the native blacks were far ahead of the present
generation of whites. As we introduced in place
of skins tte blankets which are just now used by
so large a number of the inhabitants not only as
beds but house and home as well, we, who have
the finest wool in the world, should surely so
arrange that if our ports were blockaded to-
morrow we shcu’d not ourselves have to fall back
on the original kangaroo-skin fcr covering
Whaler,
Here ia a true aaa-stor/, now first told.
Among the passengers on ths good ship City of
Melbourne, duricg the awful “ Dandenong ’’ gale,
in which so many lives were lost, was a little
ninety-pound woman, half barmaid, half actress,
whose cabin had been completely swamped by the
inrush of a sea which broke right over the heavily-
labouring steam or. The steward gave her a mis-
cellaneous assortment of dry clothes to put on,
and as her cabin was “swimming ” perched her up
on a bunk in his bar. Around ths bar war
gathered a coterie of bookmakers who, like the
rest of the passengers and crew, believed that
their last day had come every mother’s son of
those metallioians was deal-sure that he had lail
his last stiff ’ua, so far as this world was con-
corned. And, ia sooth, terrible was tbs prospect;
the ship wallowed in the troughs of the huge
waves, the screw “raced” as no engineer ever
before heard It race; tbs dying racehorses screamed
like human beings in their agony. The captain
regarded the ship’s case as hopeless, and so it
would have been but for the calm courage of Tait
(now commander of the Burrumbeet), her
chief officer. But the little woman in the
steward’s bunk had “ lobs of sand ” and
soon gave evidence of her perseverance.
“Look here, steward,” she said, “you’ve been
kind to me in leading clothes and giving lodgings,
and so I must look after your interest.” “ And
now, gentlemen,” she continued, addressing the
depressed throng of sports, “what are you going
to drink? Nothing but champagne, mind ; but
you’ll never have to pay you can have credit till
the sea gives up its dead on the great fettling-day
—on the Day of Judgment. I’ll keep account on
the slate ; so go ahead and drink while you may ;
I’m sura you’re not a praying lot.” So the boot'
makers mechanically ordered champagne, and
hung on by their eyebrows and noses to drink it;
and by-and-by the champagne got into their hard
heads, and they began to order champagne un-
mechanically and when the danger was all over
and the ship got to port at last, the little woman
up on the steward’s bunk had £lOO against them'
for liquor, and right glad were they to square it.


» M v Tailor « 154 King-Street. Newtown. Don't forget
suits to measure for Li aa.
Most and Chandon’s Champagnb.—Messrs. Moet and
Chandon are the largest vineyard and
ohamDaime-produoers in the world. Their Dry
Imnerial ” 1884 vintage is the pure Juice of selected
E rape* from their own vineyards of 2500 acres in the
choicest districts of France It can now be obtalned
through any Wine Merchant in Australia. The Imperial
Crown VlnwcUo of UK and, 1984 branded o.
•»k and label.
High Aet Photogeaphy.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONI
& 00.. Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminentlv high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord uarlngton
" By Appointment."
JOHN M'EWAN ft CO. p
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers <3b Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Country Properties, I’stmi, Qrailng
Properties, So., &o.
li-PHi
IB.psre List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Mansions, Cottages. Allotments, Ho.
Estate* list si Bulishsi fair Bale Burns*
AH fe'st* Qcstad Tea* vs •DDlleatfßßp
Personal Items.
Mra. Langtry ia now 38 years of age.
Sir George Grey completed hla 77th year
last month.
A baby has been born to Lord Gumboil—
and his wife.
Henry George writes that he hopes to visit
Australia in October.
One of Professor Huxley’s daughters has
married her sister’s widower.
The unwashed old Shah of Persia is a
Knight of the Order cf the Garter.
The prophet Baxter has definitely fixed
the end of the world for March 15 th, 1896.
Mr. Di.lon, M.P., the head of the Irish
delegation to Australia, is a qualified physician.
It Is said that Pigott, when he made his
confession to Labouchere and Sala, wai thoroughly
dl glnc3 Hou. James White, cf N.S.W.,
fcegaa racing, he has won in prize-money alone
.
Ex King Milan speak* German, French
,and English, but he can be mean in every language
under the sun.
The newly-imported S A. Governor has a
fcnaok of alluding to the colonists as “ his people.
Oar troubles!
It has recently hem ascertained that the
late Emperor Louis Napoleon’s mistresses cost him
£5,000,000 from first to last.
Sir Alfred Btepbou was in Us early days a
lieutenant in the Fusiliers. He regards these as
the happiest days t f his life.
M‘Donald, the muddling manager of Lon-
don Times, has been 40 years in the service of the
Walters, and is GO years of age.
The Emperor of Brazil has a great desire
to visit Australia, and threatens that he will do so
during the next couple of years.
Yeng Sheng-Kung, the principal descen-
dant of Confucius, was married recently to the
daughter of a Chinese official at Pekin.
Lord Chancellor Halsbury has refused to
meet Labouchere at dinner bacvuse Labby called
him “the Lord High Jobber of England.
Queen Victoria is giddy—no, no disloyalty
this time. The shaken condition of her nerves
now causes her to walk downstairs backwards.
Parke s’ pot phrase “ Go out and bark with
the dogs ” was used by Bismarck to his opponents
in May, 1864. Parkes ia original in nothing.
Lord Colin Campbell, the more or less
disreputable brother-in law of Princess Louise,
has been dancing at Government House, Bombay,
in kilts. . ,
A memoir of Adam Lindsey Gordon, by
T Hewlett-Ross, has just been published in
London under the title of “The Laureate of the
Centaurs ” . , _ . .
Last time the Shah of Persia was in England
the Prince of Wales sent him 20 pheasants. The
Stall 2d 1 of bis friend, ate 18 of the birds
between them at one meal.
The Sydney Echo, In a half-column article
i rvmnnr Onslow, lately, used the words
“*EaH and “ Lord ” 123 times. What a blesstd
invention these two words are !
n“"s a'penon aid so great an eater and drinker
that he may die at very short notice
The Oommander-in- Chief of the British
with a German accent, and refers to
Sit Bache Canard, of the great steamship
riskri
Society «or the misappropriation of-just imagine
lb Mr Edward Griffith, manager of the Royal
Sasyiel Griffith. ~ ,
.Governor Kintore, of S. A., Insists, Q
. , wife being addressed as Your
at 6 1 ’ « go far, the Adelaide people are not
Ssn whether they regard Kintore him-
self as particularly excellent.
Tnd»e Windeyer has been presented with
J adge VV iu y gB> There i 8 now a fine
a pal l ° f ;w h fnr somebody to present his Honor
SfgTSffi JSt Aper for use while he i. oh.rg.ng
7nries.naeentenoingpri.oner,.
J T> Bntdett Smith, lata commissioner for
~%SW court at the Melbourne Exhibition, is
the N S.W. couru haad He almost kissed
ffaial tethe discharge of the courtesies im-
posedJpon him by his late office.
Bismarck vidts England in Jane In com-
Blsmarc William. Up to now the
has neve r been in London. How-
Ir°n Chanoellor n Eng ii s h Hol i_he was at
Yarmouth once, V fnftny ye... .go, for . few home.
P«ty Mng’SkW- “MS? it t
SdVwn, of Smith Ld Balfour over the Timm
ißttera. French chemist, who
Ohevreu , % woke every morning
died the other day, f? soup. He lunched at
rem «d w£t‘7o hod & the night .t nine.
rpu~ p. B fate of Police Sergeant Kennedy,
c . rotted by the Kelly gang ten
who was aU JLP V et been administered, owing
years ago, has cot y „_ r . ro v, a bly in the Law a
to a legal flaw meom property worth £lO2O
JS k »dvSl r the AeLnre to-day.
Prince Albert Victor of Wales is reported
Prince A . - i assortment of corns in
to have the P He suffers terribly at times
the Brltish empi - I . { he were oa the throne
from bis poor feet, an d tso ma d some
ryt.”°7,“»M“deoVrw.Al on .coon., of
blS T Wantage has bnllt a commonplace
vnhfar store on hU Bng»
fX'XSSIi '.tes. But the loe.l bntohe,
and baker are up in arms at the competition, and
have with grim satire sent him a butcher’s steel,
knife and apron.
Birmingham’s Bishop Ullathorne, one of
the first Australian missionaries, who died the
other day, was the last of Cardinal Wisemans
bishops, who were in mmy places burned in effigy
on Guy Fawkes’ day, 1850, when Protestant ex-
citement rose to fever heat over the so-called
“Papal aggression.”
Prince O.to;, brother to the heir-presump-
tive of the Austrian throne, is a rackety man. He
once introduced a number of drunken companions
into his wife’s bed chamber “ for a lark,” and on
another occasion nearly caused a war with Ger-
many by throwing basins o’ soup over a bust of
old Emperor William.
It is now said that should Boulanger get a
divorce he will marry Mrs Lucas, who has alsi
been divorced from her first partner. Mrs. Lucas
belongs to one of the “ first families ” of Sa Louis,
XJ.S A , and the Gsneral, it appears, made her ac-
quaintance at New York in 1831, when he was at
once subjugated by her beauty.
The Austrian Royal family always keep a
ccffin in stock, and the one which received the
remains of the Crown Prince had been in the
Imperial House ever since the death of his grand-
father, Within 24 hours of the demise of Rudolph
a brand-new coffin was ready for the next Haps-
burg who should cross the river.
Freddy Gebhardt, the gilded New York
admirer of Mrs. Langtry, is said to have
developed symptoms of brain softening Ha is in
an extreme condition of melancholia and sits for
hours alone weeping over imaginary misfortunes.
After this, the real Mr. Langtry is a lucky man.
He has lost his wife but has hung on to his reason.
Mr. Dillon is Bald to have commenced Ms
Australian Home Rule campaign in Tasmania
because of his anxiety to visit the scenes wherein
Smith O’Brien, John Mitchell, T. F. Meagher,
THE ENTERPRISE OF THE MILK-TRADE.
“ What have uou get there, my good man?" asked an inqulsitive bystander, of a man
who was carryiog a heavy load in one of the streets of a Southern capital
"This here's pipe-clay, and this here's plaster of Paris, and ole bullock fat for the
Travelling Datry. Haint yer 'eard of this new dodge ov the Guving ment to
teah farmers 'ow to make two pounds of butter when they only made one
afore."
John Martin, and others of the „ 48 . men
their sevaral years of exile. Of all thermen o' 4b
who were transported. Dr. K I. O Doherty, of
Croydon (Q ), is, we believe, the only one now
living. ,
Dr. Creed, membar o! the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Council, does not interject when another
member personally reflects upon him. He simply
smiles. Then the refloating member grows red
in the face, and calls upon the President
for protection. There should be some way o! in-
corporating that smile with the other deadly
machines provided for in the Naval Defence
scheme.
The Shah of Persia wipes his mouth with his
cuff and has sundry other little personid fil
nesses. And for this reason the Queen will not
permit him to live in Buckingham Palace next
time he visits England. Now, how much more
like a Christian and a Sovereign would it be it
Her Gracious gently and firmly took the Shah to
the privacy of Balmoral and instructed him pro-
perly in the use of the handkerchief 1
Old Samuel Small, of Hyde (N S.W.),
died there the other day a few miles from the spot
where he was born 8G years ago. His father was
John Small, boatswain of one of the ships of the
“ First Fieet,” and bis sister was the late Mrs.
Cokes, the first white born in Australia. Da-
ceasea’s eldest brother, William Small, is still
living at Hyde, aged 93, and enjoys the distinction
of being the oldest inhabitant of the continent.
Death has removed the “ Disabled Clergy-
man ” who used to spin egotistical twaddle, in very
dubious English, for Melbourne Herald. The
departed parson —a Rev. Henry Trewin reached
hia lowest depth of inanity in reporting on
theatrical performances, for the manner in which
he took music and the drama under his protection
was a public nuisance. He was bat a very young
saint, however, when he fell a victim to the Mel-
bourne drainage system by dying of typhoid fever.
The Empress o! India lately gave 2«, In
one fell swoop to a blind man who was grinding
out a hymn-tune at Windsor. Every loyal Tory
paper in the Empire is now engaged copying out a
paragraph about this act of generosity, aud a
busted cause is beginning to look up, N.B —Her
Graoious gets a special allowance of £l3 200 per
annum from the nation for charitable purposes,
and after every one of her well-ad vertieed bene-
factions has been duly charged to the general tax-
payer she has a few thousands a year left.
The gay Marquis of Qieenabarry recently
took an American reporter by the button-hole and
made his Confession of Faith : “lam au agnostic
and a most earnest, though humble, disciple of
Mr. Herbert Spencer and Charles Darwin, and no
more au atheist than they are. There lives no
man upon this earth who ponders and wonders
more earnestly than myself in the presence of the
external evidences of this Eternal Power.” Dew
tell! When the Markiss was in Australia nearly
everybody looked upon him as an earnest disciple
of the Gaiety Company and a man who pondered
cn tights.
Sarah Bernhardt, who all her life haa been
addicted to gettiug married occasionally, hes be-
come reconciled to her latest husband and is living
happily with him, They parted because she
“ sooled ” her tiger on him or some trifle like that,
but anyhow the cause of the disturbance haa been
buried and forgotten. In the course of her long
career Sarah has had a son ; she has horsewhipped
one woman and many men, she has modelled busts
and statues, she has painted pictures, she has
written a book and a play, she has whitened her
face and played in a pantomime, she has sold her
jewels at auction, she has killed an ambassador,
she has caressed a skeleton, she has been up in a
balloon, she has had endless duels fought about
her, she has married her son to a Princess, she has
got married herself, she has got separated from
her husband, and lately she has got reconciled to
hi m again. And now she is beginning to fe o ! tired
for want of some new diversion, and about the
only excitement that she hasn’t used up is that of
getting old and played out and ugly and
and living on potatoes in a bark hut after the
world has forgotten her.
Princa Alb art Victor—the future “Em-
peror of India ’’—recently presided at a meeting of
the society for the relief of distressed foreigners.
Albert has an eye to a rainy day.
A commission of inquiry Into the condi-
tion of the English chaintnakers has elicited that
a chain for which the worker is paid three half-
pence in the Black Country is sold in London for
7s Ereetrade and free competition have succeeded
in grinding the producer down to receiving one-
fortieth of the actual value of the produce of his
labour, the balance, of course, going to the manu-
facturers, middlemen, and retailers, each of whom,
of course, represent the landlords. It was also
sworn to before the Commission that the female
chainmaker works at the bellows usually blowing
two pairs at once —12 or 14 hours a day, having to
keep up the whole time with the man with whom
she is working; and so keen is the struggle
against starvation that a women does not stop to
suckle her child, but toils on in a filthy atmo-
sphere with her babe at her breast; and for all
this labour she receive 6s. per week-an amount
less than the actual value of a chain that occupies
two workers one hour to manufacture.
POLITICAL POINTS
Since 1870 there have been 24 cabinets In
Franca —over a cabinet a year. And more to
follow.
The N.S.W. Assembly has st last forced
the Payment of Member a’ Bill down the throat of
the Government.
It Is roughly estimated that the Times-
Pigott tomfoolery will cost the highly moral
To:y organ some £400,000.
Treasurer M‘Mtllan says he means to make
the N.S W. workman’s income go a long way.
Mac. means to make it go all the way to China.
Eh mon 1
Thus Turner, M.P., of N.S.W. :
“From the limes of old Roman Cato down to the pre-
sent, farming has bsen looked upon as the most unprofit-
able and degrading industry.”
John Morley refuses to support the Eight
Hours’ programme, and the Social Democrats have
given him notice that they will do their best to
unseat him at Newcastle.
It Is complained that the N.S.W. parlia-
mentary room refreshments are too dear. Judging
from the language used by members, they seem a
great deal too cheap—and strong.
John Morley, it is cabled, says that the
next Liberal Government will appoint an officia
to enrol all qualified voters. Wanted in England,
a Government to enrol all men as voters.
Mr, Traill, M.P., has Introduced his One
Man One Vote Bill into the N S.W. Assembly.
The vote on this resolution will decide beyond
cavil who are and who are not democrats.
The financial scheme of the Parkes Govern-
ment under which it is proposed to pay off the
N S.W. deficit by selling £2,000,000 worth of
suburban land, may already be regarded as lost.
The Sydney D.T. Is sitting on a rail wi'h
respect to Land Nationalisation. It is always
slobbering over the Land Nationalisers, but If it
believes in their doctrines why doesn’t it say so
right out?
The hurricane having nearly destroyed
the All-Nations Armada at Samoa, now is the
time for some dusky Macaulay to arise and sing
of how the elements battled with him In the
defence of his native land.
The N.S.W. Foreign-trade Association has
decided to call itself the “ Freetrade and Liberal
Association.” It was just as well for them to
explain that Parkesian Freetrade means Libe-
ralism. If they had not done so people would
not understand.
It was Grattan, the great-grandfather of
Sir Thomas GrattinEsmonde, nowin the colonies,
who once said that Ireland would avenge herself on
England for the Act cf Union fcy sending to the
Parliament in London a pack of such blackguards
that decent legislation would become impossible.
The how-not-to-dc-it policy of the N S.W.
Educational Department is well illustrated by the
lavish presentation of maps,to the Schools of Arts
throughout the colony, and which are generally
kept rolled up and are never looked at, while the
schools are supplied in a most niggardly and in-
sufficient manner.
It is cabled that an effort will be made to
divert the tide of Irish emigration from America
to Western Australia and Queensland. One of
the most jaunty men on the Sydney block is an
old-time resident who, when running for aider-
man, coolly proposed to put a poll-tax on Irish-
men. As a public man he has been a frost ever
since.
A recent cablegram states that Mr. Walker,
ex-Oommissioner of Customs, Victoria, now in
England, has been introduced to Lord Kuuts-
ford, and it is added, “ Mr. Walker’s health is
much improved.” Having been so long an asso-
ciate of Duncan Gillies. Walker probably finds
that for him there is no tonic like an introduction
to a lord.
Sydney E. News says of payment of
members that it means a reign of “ the stumpers
and blatant charlatans, who pocket the working
man’s £3OO a year, and, while cajoling him by
clap-trap, laugh at him in their sleeves.” Another
year and the News will begin a leader with “Pay-
ment of Members is undoubtedly the keystone of
the democratic arch ”
The Sandwich Islands have hundreds and
hundreds of lepers. Sydney has 12 lepers to start
with, Queensland is going to start a leper settle-
ment at Friday Island, if the people of Thursday
Island will allow her. The Noumean correspond-
ent of the Paris Temps states out of 25,000
Kanakas in New Caledonia no less than 4000 are
lepers. There are more than sufficient lepers in
Victoria. Leprosy may yet be a problem tougher
for Australia than the rabbit question.
Mr. Jones, o! the Peace Society, who has
come to Australia to agitate against war, appears
to have enlisted the sympathy of a large number
of the local clergy. While in confab, with these
now peaceful gentlemen Mr. Jones may as well
inquire how it came about that they all so enthu-
siastic illy blessed the nigger-slaying Soudan ex-
pedition, and whether they would be prepared to
do the same again ?


WHAT IT HAY CO HE TO
Jast/ce Jiffy Bull _ %/Soyer you,
/'are J?ouyd, yu/Jy/ cfyJe/yy
<z Jo red eofy do /ao)fyi(l dyoayseyf
Jlc/>/>ort diyed o/ $4 use uyeder Jfie
ofay T yerefyore. c reyTe^e^
Jd yd&yp/ Jorys/fccde ydor /fii/£ry
o/ ,ferey years Jo rffy z.
*/ * ■* * * -* * d/fyere j/a
a 5 ore ryar adar/yy
aycd dyay 3 - feyeyerryr
oy y&ur- <yau/ / "
(7?*, Jr/soyer- eo-'aj (darr/Yad
Jit "J7/y<y 7& 7?y<z* yJ/J, etycCOcdas
A? u/~ 4/j A?pared /y ot y sysey-
S/d> da, d?ey eO//7&S}fy
i
GOING BEGGING.
“The Governorship o f Gape Colony has offered to no less than and has been as often refused. The Lord Market is looking up"


(TVytC
ZcA &/- cer/atp
/&/~/a <?/y~z T'e.&.ct sp
J-royy //JS OSy-y five// 'ext / OJortrj
/ /ftcj/ra //&y s
<*W onft*- Jfiot As
AM'?*/y f'
/y&rs
fra*6/■*<"?
■iX
Sof-
ft
WudjfW i)f*> seJ J
J000^ : (f, 0-1
O c o'
■ft*'* 0 0 r
,e, 1 t*'
' SfVV /
/
K
TL occurred fo /Jr /-/AyNidj fij/af our
d/roK /pus 7 efa.jfery'cc'//? e ppuj - 7 a.
gecof - 6/ccC, /pfetef /past- de /p/yerad/e <zj
" dupcO/coo/~ tz A ary 7 r/c(j£*- - UycC
■fU'ppe~s 7&cC To d/~ep/er
\ 7 y6nss ft? Ore /b/eojayTTy
'V 7o Jfaj e. CO/*f#sa j
\ deep rfccj farTo/de-cC .
V d/e dey & <2&***-/ eeo
1 0
01 zr* . 7 Tr<,<tlcce.cS -9 f aoA
yy ff > ,rop 6° '* '• *"
\
//c /%-
/£> S/6/r/Zj <y/ tye, '///?/ '
£~pgecge> /’acJreyce. /^o^y
\ 7# <?yy<? 7s<?y fas.opsty , / ,
Z>e/'e?c *-
How to Amuse Prisoners.
(Vide Centrepiece.)


[RESOENT BREWING CO.’S
“AURORA”
2? 11_. S ET.CT El K BHHR,
E. B WHEELER & 00.,
265 Clarbncb Strebt,
SYDNEY.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must I
—that Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Roller Floor
best in the market.
true
3 the
H
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd., 356 George Street, Sydney,
AYE iuat opened a magnificent lot of NEW PIANOS from the Celebrated Makers, STEINWAY, ER YRD, UEBEL, FENRIOH, LIPP, RONTSCH, BLUTHK
- OOLLARD and others ; also of the wonderful VICTOR pianos at £45, and ESTEY ORGANS No such variety or value elsewhere for hash or terms.
Society
Darley died before the date fixed for the mimic
bombardment no one will be sorry that the pro-
mise was made. The disregard for hufflad suffer-
ing which apparently exists in some quarters m
Sydney led the authorities at the time of the
Jubilee celebration, to proceed with a long and
noisy fireworks display in the Domain, quite reck-
less of the torture thereby occasioned to the pocr
and nameless sick in the adjacent large hospital.
We have no doubt that the end of more than one
unfortunate sufferer was hastened by the hideous
row with which the rulers of N.S.W. thought it
necessary to celebrate the fact that a German
had been barnacled for half a century to a throne
15,000 miles away. But Colonel Roberts, or who-
ever was responsible for the promise made to Sir
Frederick Darley that the last hours of the
daughter, now at rest, should not be disturbed,
has established a precedent which, for the
future, in the interests of common humanity,,
must be applied in the case of rich and poor alike.
* * u
Queensland Rechablbes report that last
year was a most successful one in every respect.
The members’ roll was swollen with new names
and zeal in every department was at white heat.
Also the Queensland brewers and distillers say
they never had such a magnificent year in the
history of the colony.
• * *
A few weeks ago an English paper ex-
plained to the Queenslanders in accents of stern
reproof mingled with sorrow and compassion that
by their rejection of Governor Blake they had lost
the chance of seeing a live duke and duchess at
Brisbane, and close behind this pomes a tale of a
peer and peeress who once did us the honour
of visiting these parts. The Marquis .of
Donegal, according to the evidence set_ forth
by his wife in h-r application for a divorce,
The other day we met In Qeorge-streetv
Sydney, Katzenstein, the usurer, who seemed in
very bad humour; on his expansive face a glare
of suppressed ferocity struggled hard for mastery
with his sweet and well-known professional smile
“Yell,” said Katzenstein, “haf you heard d©
latest noose apoud young Dives —you know Dives,
that tarn scoundrel vob forged the bills und hat
me for no ent of monish, an’ then gob into chale
for seven years ? Do you know vat he vants ? ”
"Whisky and water,” we suggested—“ Easter
eggs—brandy and soda,” "Do you know,” re-
peated Katzenstein, taking no heed of our flippant'
suggestions—" Do you know vat that tarn rascal
vants?” "No. Do say, and put an end to this'
mystery.” “ Yell,” said Katzenstein, now froth-
ing at the mouth, " he vants—mine Gobb, can you
pelieve it I —that fellow actually vants to get oud of
chale! He vants to get oud 1 Yes, he actually
vants TO GED OUD OF DARLINGHURST
CHALE! ” And off went Katzenstein.
«* *
Which reminds us of something. Oa&
morning not very long ago Mr. Waddle O’Fat, a
jolly, good-humoured son of a gun, who is loved by
nearly everybody who knows him —and who is
there that does not know him! —was seated at'
breakfast at his residence at, let us say, Darling
Point, when the door-bell was rung and the pam-
pered menial (Mr. O’Fat’s acquaintances will
readily understand that his menials have a most in-
dulgent master) entered the room and presented
the card of Mr. Aaron Snoozelberg, the well-
known Melbourne financier. " Snoozelberg I 1
Snoozelberg ! Never heard of him,” ejaculated
Mr. O’Fat; "however, show him in, John ; show
him in.” And then the O’Fat, fixing a large win-
dow-pane in his eye, gave the visitor greeting.
"To what, Mr.—ah—Snoozelberg, may I attri-
bute the honour of this early visit ? ” " Yell,” said 1
the great financier, " perhaps you don’t know that
I haf hat very considerable transactions mib your
prother Tommy—beg pardon, I mean your prother
Mr. Thomas O’Fat. I hafe nefer hat de Measure
of meeting you before, bat as I vas in Sytney 1
bought I vould like to call und see you—l bought'
poshible dot you might vish to borrow a little
monish.” "Oh,” replied the O’Fat, "I don’t'
want anything, thanks; I’m pretty flush just now,,
thank heaven. Won’t you have a drink ?” "Yell,,
Mr. O’Fat,” replied the banker, " tank you very;
mooch, but I ne f er trink any ting but zhambagne.”’
" Well, we may be able to find you a little of that.
John, bring a couple of pints of that dry wine you
got in last year—you like it dry, Mr. Snoczel-
barg?” Mr. S. certainly did, as fruity wine was,
he had always found, calculated to rather upset a
man in the morning; and so the fizz, was un-
corked and poured down the respective necks of
the descendant of King Solomon and his host.
«By the way,” ejaculated the O’Fat, as he began
to feel the genial influence of his share of the
tipple, " what could you do me, say, a couple of
thousand for at four months ?” " I vill lend you
iiwo thousand for vour months for two huntred
and fifty bounds,” "Have you got the irons
about you? ’ airily inquired the O’Fat. Of course
Mr. Snoozelberg had the irons about him—that’s
why he was there ; he at once produced the neces-
sary stamped bill, which having been signed and
exchanged for Mr. Snoozelberg’s cheque, the
financier wished his genial entertainer a very good
morning.
• * •
Three months after this little occurrence the
ihand of misfortune fell heavily upon the O’Fat,
who had to file his schedule, and in his list of
'liabilities the name of Mr. Snoozelberg duly
figured for two thousand pounds. One day just
afterwards, the O’Fat’s lawyer ran up against
banker Snoozelberg in the street in Melbourne.
“Mein Gott T’ whined the financier, “I vish I had
neffer peen in Sytney. I lent your glient, O’Fat,
'two thousand bounds, and all I’ve kot ifor it has
been one small bottle of ahambagne.” When ths
llawyer returned to Sydney he told the (o’Fat<qf
Snoozelberg’s remark. "Look here, old man,”
isaid the O’Fat, " when next you see old Saoczel-
iberg just tell him, with my compliments, that I’ve
still got a little of that wine left, and if he likes
I’ll let him have two or three more bottles at the
same price/’ # #
An article in one of the dally paoera Is
headed " Homes or flats for ladies.” Let the
ladies get the "flats” and they’ll soon have the
homes.
* * •
r The orders Issued by Colonel Roberts that
the heavy guns at Port Jackson Heads should not
be fired on Easter Monday in consquence of the
serious illness of a daughter of Sir Frederick
Darley, the N.S.W. Chief Justice, does credit to
his humanity, and though unfortunately Miss
THE BETTER LAND.
PARSON: "CHEER UP, DEAR BROTHER, YOUR SAINTED WIPE WILL BE
FAR HAPPIER, NOW THAT SHE'S GONE TO A BETTER LAND.”
FARMER (shaking his head doubtfully): "W A’ALL I DUNNO ABOUT ‘BETTER
LAND .’ WHY, I POLLED FIFTY BUSHELS TO THE ACRE OFF THIS
HERE LAST HARVEST! THAT'S GOOD ENOUGH, AIN’T IT?”
is a plain, cart horse ruffian of doggy ex-
terior and hobnailed manners, whose speci-
ality is foal language and kicking; and the
Marchioness, as explained by her husband in his
application, is a lady of the Happy Sally descrip-
tion who is generally found in a partially uncon-
scious state with her hair flying about her ears and
a bottle in her hand. Her previous name was Cobb,
and she has endeavoured to live up to it. They
were married in 18G5, and in the same year the
bridegroom started to come home drunk and whale
his blushing partner in the bonds of joy- Appar-
ently, however, she didn’t mind this much ;
though she does seem to have entered a protest
one night when the stately British peer tottered
home tight and covered with mud, and attended
by an incapacitated person whom he had just
bailed out of a police cell, and who smelt like six
public-houses, on which occasion the proceedings
concluded by the majestic baron and hereditary
legislator hauling his wife out of bed to introduce
her in her night-dress to the pillar of mud
and dust whom he had rescued from gaol. The
point on which the happy family split, however,
was the noble Marquis’s habit of keeping a harem
in his family mansion ; and matters having come
to this extremity the lady gatherfd up her traps
and quitted the prop of the Church and State who
had trodden on her for so many years, and left
that old baronial Bill Sikes desolate. The lady’s
departure, however, was not strictly dignified in
its character, as she eloped along with a groom
who dropped his “h’s,” and bore outward evi-
dences of the stable. The horsey labourer adopted
the style and title of the doggy peer, and he seems
to have smelt and sworn and cursed and spit so
like a nobleman that he filled the bill to perfection.
During the wild career which followed the lady
was chiefly celebrated for the fact that she fell
down the kitchen stairs about once a week on a
steady average, and the conjoint thirst of the
establishment was such that an 18-gallon cask of
beer never lasted more than seven days. Finally,
there was an all-round application for a divorce,
which was refused on the ground thst the whole
lot were about equally shady in every ref pect.
The noble and brilliant peer, as a consequence,
still runs the harem in his ancestral halls, and is
debarred from conferring his obscenity and bis
drunkenness on another blushing bride. When he is
moderately sober and has gob his hat straightened
out, and tbe mud scraped off him, and has tem-
porarily overcome the balmy odour of public-
houses and dog-kennels that generally clings to
him, and is a little less like a cross between a
costermonger and an ash-heap than usual, he takes
his seat in the Upper House, where his moral
effluvium is disguised under the style and title of
Baron Fisherwick, and hplpi to legislate for the
empire and to boss the interests of Australia
among the rest. God bless the old nobility that
curse and carouse and whoop in the stately home s
of England ! God bless the grand old landmarks
of the British Constitution, ezen though these
landmarks may have an occasional tendency to
kick their wives and gallop on their mothers with
hob-nailed boots! May they multiply and prosptr
on the face of the earth, and when they fall down
dead-drunk and break their necks may they go lo
shine in Paradise and bellow in an everlasting
public-house in the New Jerusalem. Amen.
* • *
Gr. R. Sima has concluded that the day
must shortly come when royalty, as it is under-
stood now, will be impossible. We need not hurry
the change on; it will come naturally and steadily
in obedience to the natural laws which shape and
govern all social evolutions. The nance of king
may remein for a century yet, but it will be a
name signifying nothing in comparison with what
it means now. It will probably be a title having
no effect upon statesmanship or politics, exorcising
no influence upon the destinies of nations, but
much run after by promoters of public companies,
who will like to have a king or an empeior upon
their board of directors.
» * •
The Grand and National divisions of the
Temperance party in New South Wales have
decided to admit “sisters” to membership, but
have ruled them ineligible for the offices of
patriarch, scribe, and treasurer. These are the
only offices that carry dignity or money with
them. It thus appears that even in the profession
of Sobriety sex carries disabilities. Women must
rise all along the line !
r * -
When the great Jo a Thompson touched at
Colombo he seems to have bribed the Ceylon
Times to interview him. Anyhow, a whole
column of Joseph—including the archaeological
assertion that Mr. Donald Wallace is “the pro ■
totype of an Englishman ’’—appeared in the
aforesaid rag. Even amidst the spicy breezes of
Ceylon the distinguished bawler of odds couldn t
forget to grovel. Ha said he was having a most
delightful voyage, which was largely due to the
great kindness of Sir Henry Locb, Lady Lccb,
and the charming Misses Loch (Jehoshaphat 1
they are too charming), who always assisted m
every amusement so heartily.” This makes us
sick. It was very good of the Gov. to smile upon
potatc-races, and perhaps take an occasional hand
at rope quoits, but any other old gentleman could
have helped the amusements to the same extent.
Are we to understand that dear Lady Loch and
her lank daughters improved the shining hours by
playing peep-bo ! with Joseph on the quarter-
deck? Bah! Our firm belief is that the old
humbug divided all his time between the smoking-
room and the feeding saloon, except when _ he was
asleep. Give a bookmaker a game of sixpenny
nap and a few jugginses—he wants no more
amusement to make his voyage very delightful
indeed.
Twenty-five sick persona were refused ad-
mission to Melbourne Hospital within three days
of last week, because that notorious institution
was quite full up. Shocking reality ! inhospitality
causing mortality thus to increase! Sinful frugality
in that locality, sad speciality—dozans’ decease.
Surely morality, prompt actuality of liberality,
calls for aloud; Irrationality causing fatality—in-
hospitality killing the crowd. (This rhyme is
capable of extension into the illimitable, but we
mercifully stop it right here.)
» * •
Mrs. Neliia Walker, who was ho wonder-
fully rescued by a seaman of the R.M S. Parra-
matta after she had fallen from the RM.S Cuzco
in Hobson’s Bay, attributes the preservation of
her life to her dress and to Divine Providence in
the form of her dress-improver.
* * *
Is lb the correct thing for Jobaon, when he
gives an entertainment, to have it printed on the
cards of invitation that the honour of his guest’s
presence is sought by “ J. Job-on, Esquire ; ” and
when he tells them that a special train will be in
waiting at a certain time to convey them to the
rendezvouses it not rather a sail for them to find
that they have to pay their fare both ways ?
1 > •
The marriage-rate per 1000 of the popula-
tion of Sydney last year was less than in any
other year since 1872, It must be a failure after
all.
* * •
Lord Onslow wag recently shown £7OOO-
- of gold in a liquid state at the Victorian
Mint, and the Argus " Jeames” informs u? that
his Lordship “merely showed great interest.”
Only fancy the calm dignity, the poetic repose,
which a few pints of blue blood bestows I A
plebeian would have scooped up a hat-full of the
stuff and drunk it, even if it burnt out his im-
mortal soul.
• « •
The mu oh-printed story about the “South
Australian magnate ” who waved the footman
aside at Government House, and then went in and
met the Governor’s wife and mistook her for a
servant and chucked her under the chin, and called
her a “little dear,” and gave her half-a crown
and asked her to “ show him into the presence of
his lordship,” is, of course, pure bosh. In the first
place, you can’t wave aside a footman who weighs
16 stone, and who is placed there to keep you from
waving him aside ; in the second place, the man
who wrote the story was a snob. Just think of
anyone talking about the Governor’s “ presence,”
as though the Governor were a Czar. How can
any man named Jones or Robinson or anything of
that kind have a “presence?” And thirdly—but,
its needless to continue.
* « •
The lady State School heachera of Victoria
wish to take precedence of the other miserable sex
on the ground that “the Qaeen rules over all 1
men.” They forget that Tummy rules over a.
terrible lot of women.
The gentleman whose brand-Ww bride'
fell, or jumped, out of a portal# oS-tha Ouzao,,
didn’t give way to his feelings much upon hearings
that his little darling had been picked up by the
Parramatta. During that awful period of sus-
pense, when the lady’s whereabouts was a mystery
unsolved, the bridegroom—so the papers say—an-
nounced his intention of going right on to Eng-
land, anyhow,
• * *
Bishop Birry thinks that “ Methodism of
the ancient type is not compatible with the climate
and instincts of to-day,” Quite true, Bishop;
and Christianity of “the ancient type” is not
compatible either.
* • *
“ A N.S. W. volunteer,” saya a newspaper
correspondent, “is a man who turns out at 10s. a
ay. He is equipped as a rifl'mao, and is trained
to steal toward the enemy unseen, attired in a
glazing scarlet coat and white helmet.”
• a •
This Saturday the Hon. William Macleay,
president of the newly formed N.S. W. National
Club, gives a picnic to the members.
«• • •
Sir Thomas Grattan Eamonde, the young
Irish bachelor baronet, was seen off from Adelaide
railway station by a very large assortment of girls
who have suddenly developed a keen interest in
the Home Rule question.
BACK FROM THE (SHAM) BATTLE.
(A.N Eastkb Hymv.)
Tramp, tramp, tramp,
The troops return from camp,
With clatter and clank the file atod rank
To shop and office, and store and bank
Tramp, tramp, tramp
Chorus a lively stave,
i'or never a comrade brave
They’ve left behind on the field to find
A warrior’s lonely grave—
A holiday hero's grave.
Cramp, cramp, cramp—
The ground was rather damp
Whereon they’ve lain, but ache and pain
Those troops they treat with cold disdain;.
Cramp, cramp, cramp,
Hark ! to the rolling drum
Striking the Russians dumb ;
With flashing of steel and spurs at heel
Our gallant defenders come—
Sham-fighting defenders come.
Tramp, tramp, tramp,
The troops return from camp,
With clatter and clank and cartridge blank,
Full of the liquor they lately drank.
Tramp, tramp, tramp;
Valour in every eye
Jauntily marching by;
We know no fears while our volunteers
Are ready to do or die —
From natural causes die.


T
H 0 SYDNEY DEPOSIT AND DIS-
COUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambkks, 90 Kino Steeet.
A gencles In London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual Banking Business transacted.
The following are the rates of Interest allowedl
for FIXED DEPOSITS
3 years 91 per cent.
12 months 81 per cent.
6 months 71 per cent.
3 months 51 per cent.
For the past three years a Bonus of ONE PER
CENT, has been paid in addition to the above
rates.
Communications from the country will bo
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON, General Manager.
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
ASSURED .2S?« SS£S> SSSpJSZ
IN TONTINE SURPLUS, m Branches In all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
[?]
846 Macquarle-street North, Sydney, Miy 1,1889
It’9 a blessing—isn’t it?—that fur is to be so universal
this winter, for fur becomes any woman who hasn’t a skin
like that on the leg of a fowl Boas are simply heaven-
sent, aid skinny women especially ought to mention them
in their prayers, for they fill up hollow o: liar-bones and
conceal and soften scraggy necks and jawbones to a mar-
vel. I don’t think the “ Victoria "—boas reaching to the
feet, the upper part resembling a deep collar—will be
much affected, as they give a flat effect to the bust, and
the average hollowed out Australian female can’t stand
flattening a little bit. Far capes will not be worn by any-
body who knows better, but the number of jaunty
“ covert" coa’s in seal, velvet, and cloth—never plush,
this season, remember—worn will be legion. As to colours.
Green and black, and brown and black are the thing just
now, but they will be played out by winter, when all the
dark colours will be in—green predominating.
“ Faustine,” the latest feminine writer on “ women’s
dress” in the gush-column of the S.M. Herald, after
many weary platitudes on the time we take to dress, how
the fat woman always wears quarter-acre checks and the
bean-pole female perpendicular stripes, concludes with a
vision of an approaching era when “ each woman will bs a
law unto herself, the beautiful one will bodily choose the
frame from her own loveliness, the less favoured will ac-
quire mote perfectly the gift of softening her defects and
emphasising more strongly the points were nature has
been kind, and so will harmony be evolved from discord.”
This is comfortable sophistry—but suppose—well suppose
the coming woman has a boiled-pork complexion and
round ankles, will she walk on her hands ? Or suppose
she has a corkscrew figure and perfect feet, will it be
de rigueur for her to do the block without boots 1 Ths
question is absorbingly, b’.ushingly inter.sling, isn't it ?
The first vice-regal ball of the season eventuated at
Government House, Sydney, on the 24th April, when the
same old throrg attended, and the majority of the gowns
weren’t striking. Lady Carington was charming in a
beautiful ivory white brocade, cut decollelle—a diamond
necklace, tiara, and bangles, also a huge bouquet, com-
pleting an elegant ensemble. A handeome freck was of
ivory satin, an Directoire, an traine, over a jupe of pale-
green embroidered with pearls, see-more and sleeveless
bod’oe, cream aigrette in the hair. Another satisfactory
gown was of armure Royale'm an electric shade with
“interludes” of shell pink ; and there were one or two
others worth looking at. The music was supplied by
Need’s band, and the floor was a perfect toboggan.
Easter Monday at Rand wick drew together a large and
fashionable crowd; who assembled half because of their
interest in the sport and half because the showwas‘‘V.R ’>
Lady Carington—accompanied by the Baron, Admiral and
Mrs. Fairfax, Mrs. James (a daughter of Millais, R.A.),
and several other high-priced individuals—wore black
moire and lace, with a small, black lace bonnet, trimmed
with cream and black ribbon bows. Lady Delamere, white
pongee silk and a grey bonnet. Mrs. Fairfax wore black.
Mrs. James White wore a handsome gown of amethyst-
coloured mervellleux trimmed with gold embroidery
bonnet en suite Mrs. Henry White was in brick-dust red
cloth trimmed with gold. Miss Millie Cox wore an elegant
Directoire gown of dark green cloth and black moire.
Miss Nellie Cox wore fawn cashmere trimmed with seal
brown, hat to correspond—but goodness 1 1 could enume-
rate lor a whole week. The course was in splendid order and
the music divine, but I ihall draw the veil of charity over
the “attendance” and fhs bill of fare in the ladies’ tea.
room.
The most fashionable milliners and dressmakers now
describe their places of business as “ studios,” which is
quite the correct appellation, considering how much art
there is in Acting a billowing bodice on a pigeon chest.
Which reminds me that a Sydney firm (whose celebrated
stuffing artist had just returned to business) recently an-
nounced that ladies “could now be supplied with padded
fl<ures.” We are a very practical people.
That dear old man “The Vagabond” was at one of the
continental Beauty Shows, and got so hand and glove
with the gilded promoters of the affair that, as he tells us
per a Melbourne paper:—“l am asked if I would like to
act as temporary cavalier to La Perle de Guadaloupe, or
any of the other beauties. But my Anglo-Saxon bio. d
resents the idea of in any way making mj self ridiculous
and conspicuous.” “La Perle” took first priz°, too. Mr.
Thomas must be getting bashful in his old age. How
modestly he contrives to let us know that he was selected
as oava’ier for the beat-looking girl!
I heard of an amusing remark made by a seven-year-old
son of an up country r quitter. The child was taken in
to see mamma and the new baby the other day—the
recent arrival from No Man’s Land being an exceedingly
plump specimen. Yocng Wcolprees gazed at it in
impressive silence for a minute and then exo’aimed, “My
erioky 1 aint he fat? Guess it's good country he’s come
•off of!” (Verbatim 1)
A most diverting incident occurred in oonneolion with
a recent country wedding. The bridal part/, in buggies,
•&o , were proceeding to church, and on their way had to
ascend a very steep bill. By some mischance a horse,
attached to one of the buggies, lost its footing and fell a
great distance, carrying the vehicle with it. The latter
was at the time fortunately empty, so no one was hurt,
but the horse was killed and the buggy smashed. This,
you will allow, would be rather startling to most people's
nerves, but the inhabit ants of that part of the colony are
o:ol, courageous sort of people, nob to be daunted by
trifles. Accordingly the bride-elect took her seat in the
remaining buggy, the horee was taken out (as they wished
to prevent a repetition of the accident), and the bride-
groom took its place between the shafts, the bast man
(proving the best man they could have chosen under the
circumstances) bringing up the rear, and giving his valu-
able and energetic assistance in propelling the buggy till
the ascent was accomplished, and thus the bridal party
were enabled to arrive at their destination in time to be
safely and satisfactorily married.
If all those musical individuals who are so palpably and
hopelessly “gone ”on a Sydney pianiato who announces
herself as “Miss” only knew that the lady in question
was appropriated ages ago, they would probably take
mire pains to conceal their ardour. Which reminds me
that Miss Emily Piizfcy—Lucia Harwood's double—is
blossoming out as accompanyisb at Her Majesty’s Theatre
concerts occasionally.
People who are particular in their observance of the
commandment touching on the sinfulness of envy—also
those who write long descriptions of the pink-glazsd-
lining bodies and white muslin underskirt worn by Miss
Blank—are advised to skip this par describing Mrs
Millionaire William Astor s gown on a reoent American
occasion. Now draw in your breath“ All about the
round court-train, do ,vn the side gores and on the right
breast of the bodice were asters, the natural size, worked
in solid gold bullion, with a conventionalised vine of the
leaves and buds. The bouquet of gold on the bodice was
a marvellous piece of embroidery, and every ester in the
train tha very perfection of decorative needlework. The
i
<*s w
|5
P°-\g r( Ij|it r/K<\tf rof ]\<
■ VuVt W o,wj/tyf*
petticoat of thick white satin was seen through the
meshes of woven pearl that covered it, this drapery being
a sort of fisher’s net, with tiny gold discs in relief About
the neok was a ruff made entirely of pearl and gold beads,
woven on fine wire to support it. The corsage was cut
nearly oval, and from the top to the point of the stomaoher
was a triangle of invisible gold literally pegged, or, as the
upholsterer would say, nailed, with diamonds, every one
as large as the tip of my lady’s wedding finger. In each
of the parallel rows was a solitaire in relief, and from the
centre of the blazing tri-cornered corsage was a perfect
sun of diamonds, the middle stone being as large and
almost the same shape as an almond. Below this won-
derful mosaic of brilliants was the stomaoher, pointed top
and bottom, made entirely cf rubies and pearls and
literally flaming with diamonds. Ths sleeves proper
reaohed to the hand and were made of pearls, woven
cries cross in the diamond pattern to match the net on the
skirt. Falling from the shoulder seam to ths bottem of
the skirt were Venetian sleeves of pearl-embroidered net,
with gold stars scattered through it. Her coiffure was
concealed by a pear-shaped coronet of diamonds, and in
the diadem were pearls aid diamonds, with three splendid
white stones in spiral mounting. Below this crown were
three diamond stars pinned in the hair about the ear.
The De Mediois girdle was studded with family stones,
principally rubies, sapphires, aud turquoises, with clusters
of small old-mine stones, and five strings of rose-out dia-
monds were coiled about her throat.” “ Gorgis,” even to
the barbaric, wasn’t it? I wonder what adjectives our
scribeeses would employ to butler that get-up when they
drivel with admiration all through the season over Mrs.
So and-So s silk go vn trimmed with lace, or Mrs. Dash’s
velvet and pearls ?—and what a gap there is between Mrs.
Aster aforesaid and our poor little Miss Smith, “who
looked nice as usual” 1
The first monthly “ hoot ” of the Petersham Owl Club
for the season ’B9 eventuated at the local town hall on 24th
April, and consisted of the usual melange of amateur act-
ing, singing and dancing, presided over by the blithesome
secretary with blonde hair parted in the middle. The
attendance wasn't esaotly a crush, and the prettiest frock
was a copper yellow moire donned by a small dark woman.
On 251 h April Boyle’s Amateur Opera Co. repeated
“Maritana” at the Prctes’aut Hall, Sydney. Boyh’s
A. O. Co. don’t act. They sit around on chai.-s in evening
war-paint, and the tenor evolves “ L't me like a soldier
fall” in pumps and a white tie Maritana wears a sea-
moss costume and her hair banged, and LrzarMoblossoms
out in a bustle. Under thesa peculiar circumstances
“ Mary Turner” appears in tbs light of a mistake, though
the singing of ons or two cf the principals partially re
deems the buidsnsomeness of the affair.
A chrysanthemum ehow was opened at Sydney Town
Hall on April 25th, and a similar show blossomed out in
Adelaide on the same day. The Sydney exhibition was
the largest and best I have ever seen, though I do wish
exhibitors were sure of the botanical names of thsir pets,
for one variety was a psrfecb polyglot—being named, so it
seemed to me, aooording to the idiosyncrasy of eaoh
owner. The flowers were really superb, and the central
group of palms, &o. (lent by Mr. Charles Moore, of the
Botanic Gar Jens), simply adorable.
Several excited correspondents write in hysterical metre
rom far up the country complaining of the snobbishnees
displayed by somebody at a cricketers’ ooncsrtin the nex
township, where nsighbouring youth and beauty had to
sit in a dark corner on a wobbling p'ank, while the local
Storekeeper and his following sat right in the blaze of the
tallow candles, on the Austrian chairs of fashion. Sad,
wasn’t it? St 11, I withhold my tears, for the girl yearns
(or a dark corner.
Sir Henry and dear Lady Looh sont arrivay ah Londres
ong roots poor I expositiong day Parse. Dear Lady Loch’s
health has “ considerably improved” “Her Excellency ”
having discovered that it’s not worth while to be indis-
posed anywhere but in (he kawlinies, I suppose. Their
vice regalities expect to drag themselves back to the
sinuous Yarra in the sweet Spring time, about September,
until when the martyrdom of poor forlorn grass-widower
Wobinson will continue as per advertisement.
According to medical testimony there has been no
typhoid at that much-talked of Katoomba Hotel after all;
the report seems to have emanated from t vo or three dis-
missed servants who spread the damaging statement
with a view to “ getting level " with the management
Another and extremely interesting phase of the playful
O’Toole.
The annual audition of Kowalski’s pupils takes place at
Sydney Criterion Tr.eatre (kindly lent by the manage-
ment) oh 8 th May.
Clara writes from Melbourne“ Tae various booms
are over, and the season this year is going to be as dull as
ditch wattr, lor owing to the ‘bcoms’—the moneyed
classes are most unpleasantly pinched. Balls planned to
while away the chilblain season have to be given up, and
the number of carriages for sale is positively heartbreak-
ing. One of the leading drapers told me that though he
usually books from 30 to 40 gowns for the autumn stason,
he only booked two this year 1 ’
The girl s fa:e in “Fancy F«e ’ (J. A Bennet’s admired
black and whits in the N.S.W. Art Society’s show) is a
portrait of the youngest daughter cf a veteran Sydney
journalist.
There is a “ swell,” generally on view on Sydney block,
who daily indulges in an airy and refined pastime. He
inveigles match-girls, paper girls, rnd the like close to
him and then tramps on their lois—the contentions of the
victims constituting “the fun of the docsid thing
y< rknow.” Sport, i sn’l it ?
g|Mr. Bieaking-the-news Longstaff, the Victorian artist
who vtas the first to gain the travelling scholarship, has
sent out his first picture— & splendid copy of Titim’s
“ Entombment of Christ.”
It is now being commented upon that English women
are becoming addicted to tobacco—a London tobacconist
selling 50,000 of ladies’ cigarettes in a year, and one cf his
customers smoking twenty a week. In Sydney the smok-
ing habit is also very rife, and many’s the teagown that
carries a cigarette-pocket; indeed, one well-known
Sydneyite—the wife of a prominent city man—smokes a
cigarette “ perfectly,” holding it between her first and
second fingers, and invariably blowing the smoke down
her nose I
The landladies of the S ates a.e said to publish photo-
graphs of themselves, I dare the local landladies to follow
suit.
Tae Sidney Southern Amateur Theatrical Society blos-
som forth again on 19th May, when the performance will
consist of the screamingly funny “ Quiet Family ” and an
operetta. The second Autumn ball at Government House
happens on 94h, and the Suburban B:oyole C.ubhold their
race meeting on (he Association Ground, Moore Park, on
18th and 28th of May.
A “ young gentleman 1 ’ advertises in a daily paper, ask-
ing that “the young lady in blue, to whom he lifted his
hat, will be so kind as to communicate with him.” Very
poasibly the young gentleman remembers the particular
girl hs wanls, but I much doubt whether the girl would
be able to recognise the young gentleman if she again saw
him —gentlemen who lilt their hats to ladies they don’t
know are so numerous just now.
Lord Onslow, the brand-new N.Z. Governor, is de-
scribed as a man who thoroughly understands the art of
dining. He is said to affect the French style of setting
small tables about his f ining-room to aooommodate three
or four, atd this custom will stand him in good stead
now, for it will enable him to avoid the sight of prominent
MfP. wiping their mouths on the tablecloth at state
dinners. It will also give him a chance of not noticing
how hideous a sight a judge may be when he is eating—
for, alter all, there is a possibility, however remote, that
they may have a judge cf that kind in the land of the
Maori. Apropos of vice regalities, the new Queens-
land lay-figure, Sir Henry Norman, has been safely 1 mded
at Brisbane.
Yours ever,
SAPPHO SMITH.
My dear M'sb Smith, —I have an idea that eome of your
society folks in Sydney would like to be primed with a
little truth concerning some of their idols. They might
then pretend to have known them in their youth, without
letting their intimate dear duchesses and darling Sir
Charleys know that there was often a (mahogany) bar to
very o’.ose flirtations. To begin with, how is it that the
Sydney dailies have never jumped at the fact that the
Earl of Limerick has been appointed Captain of the
Yeoman of the Guard ? I suppose they were too much
absorbed in his predecessor, Lord Kintore, whom they
hope to see and worship. I stand open to correction, but
I believe the Earl of Limerick was born in Australia. The
Murrumbidgee whalers have it that his father was split-
ting in the bush when he succeeded to the title. Sappho
dear, splitting is the Australian for manufacturing
fencing-material. His lordship then became Lord
Glentworth, and here is what I can’t understand. I am
certain that he had what in the back-blocks is called
a “ sorammy ” hand. I know that in Jersey he wore
a glove constantly. Then again Hazsll gives his history
as “ formerly in Rifle Brigade.” How did he pass the
doctors ? The C.P.S. at Forbes, the Hon. E. A. T. Pery,
is brother to the Earl, and I fancy I met another brother,
the Hon. Cecil, some years ago in Brisbane. The latter
had nice long golden curly hair when a boy. Now, all
this concerning a real Australian earl and his brothers
ought to be worth a lot of money. Then there’s
another notable, Mr. Dillon—a self-male notable not the
spurious hereditary article —at our gates. I know
nothing about him and his mate, Parnell. But they are
patriots, and I admire patriotism, However, concerning
the Times people, their opponents, I saw in a Melbourne
daily that they wondered that the “ well known shrewd-
ness of the Walter family” had not been conspicuous in the
case. Now, I happen to have met two of the Walter family
and failed to detect their acumen. They were both capital
fellows, but were famed for their—well, reverse of shrewd-
ness. One of them was called “Jock” and commanded
at a station I was compelled to serve in. He was said to
have told his syce that his charger was too fresh and to
cut his grain down by a pound or two. Just then the
animal shied when Jcok called out “No, no, give him lull
rations.” The other Walter was also in the army, and
was remarkable for not being remarkable in anything.—
Yours, Scotty the Wrinkler,
In this Issue we present to the public eye
certain sketches showing the gyrations upon
wheels of Mr. F. A Smith, cf Chicago (U.S.A.),
a champion skater who has borne his honoured
cognomen with credit over the greater part of the
globe. Mr. Smith is at present the manager and
chief attraction of the famous Crystal Palace: rink
in York street, Sydney, where he has created a
furore (French expression run to earth in the back
end of the dictionary) by the dramatic effect of
his performances. He rinks in various disguises
—sometimes as a farming person who bounders
madly over the slippery surface and skates
mostly on one foot and one ear; sometimes
as a ponderous Dutchman of 16 stone, who
pounds heavily across the flsor; now and then
as a lightsome duda who flies round as if on
wings, and occasionally as a cmnibal or a Hot-
tentot, or an escaped madman—in fact, he is open
to rink in any capacity and is ec eamingly comic
in them all. Mr. Smith has been a skatist from
his youth up, and has exhibited in some 3000
rinks, and hopes to do ro in 3000 more. He in-
vented the famous ball-bearing roller skate and
several other machines of the same description
he has written various works on skating ; and
when he isn’t skating he is generally producing
pictures and using up paints in the pursuit of Art,
He is also a good deal your gar than ought be ex-
pected, and is particularly beautiful in his out-
ward aspect when seen by daylight.
My Dear MOORARINDA-
i


TWAIN’S
Jl PAIN’S
PAIN’S
LAST DAYS
of
POMPEII.
PHILLIP PARK.
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
GRAND ERUPTION OF
MOUNT VESUVIUS.
Tremendous Buildings Overthrown.
MOLTEN LAVA FLOWING THROUGH
THE STREETS OF POMPEII.
CITIZENS-IN TERROR AND CONSTERNATION.
300 AUXILIARIES
ON THE MAMMOTH STAGE.
Superb Costumes.
GRAIND PROCESSIONS.
A triumph of
PYROTEOHNICAL ART
Never before witnessed
IN SYDNEY.
COUNTRY VISITORS
do not fail to visit
THIS WONDERFUL SPECTACULAR AND
PYROTEOHNICAL DISPLAY.
In addition there will be given a display of
GORGEOUS FIREWORKS.
SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS.
In addition,
THIS GREAT MAMMOTH SHOW
will include
ST. LEON’S CRYSTAL PALACE CIRCUS.
The whole being
THE GREATEST EASTER PROGRAMME
ever presented at
MILLION PRICES,
2s, and 1?.
Special Reserved Seats to accommodate Ladies and
Children at 3 s.
The grounds will be lighted by
POWERFUL ELECTRIC LIGHTS
(supplied and worked by
Messrs. G. R Kirkland and Co,),
and thousands of Japanese Lanterns, making a
FAIRY SCENE.
Gates open 7 o’clock p m , Promenade Concert
at 7.15 p.m. Circus Performance 7.45 p.m.,
Pompeii 8 30 p m.
H. DENTON, of Sydney, N.S.W.
JAMES PAIN, of London and New York.
CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING
ACADEMY COMPANY, Limited,
Yobk-stbket.
THE MOST POPULAR SKATING RESORT
IN AUSTRALIA.
Beautifully Decorated to imitate the Ice Palace,
Montreal, Canada.
THE ICE PALACE OF AUSTRALIA.
SATURDAY, 4th MAY.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, cool, equal to any
skating surface in the world, and second to none.
This Palace is lighted by thousands of many-
coloured Incandescent Electric Lights provided by
the well-known firm, G. K. Kirkland and Co., 65
Y ork-street, -Sydney.
GREAT IMPROVEMENTS
Newly Fitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of Competent Instructors.
Good Music by Full Band
Superintended by Mr. George Vassle.
Grand Exhibition in Skating by the Best Talent
in the World.
A. F. SMITH, Manager.
Metropolitan ‘ skating rink,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
Two minutes from Railway Station.
THE COOLEST RINK IN THE CITY.
SPLENDID OPEN-AIR PROMENADE.
Beautiful Views of HARBOR and CITY.
City Band every evening and Saturday afternoons.
The FLOOR has been laid with MATTAI and
has been pronunced Second to None.
The Building is brilliantly illuminated with
Incandescent Electric Lights, provided by G. K.
Kirkland and Co., York-street.
SESSIONS ;
Morning, 10, for Ladies and Children only.
Admission free, Skates 6d.
Afternoon, 2 30. Ladies and Children : Admis-
sion 6d., Skates 6d. Gentlemen : Admission Is,,
Skates Is.
Evenings, 7 30. Admission (to all) Is. Skates Is.
Patrons (with own skates), fioorage 6d. Season
Tickets now ready.
Fyrmont and Balmain ’buses pass the doors
every few minutes. The management reserve the
right to refuse admission to objectionable persons.
D. W. HIGGINS, Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor ... ... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
FRANK THORNTON’S SEASON.
Enormous Success of
SWEET LAVENDER,
in which the Popular Comedian
FRANK THORNTON
will appear, supported by
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’S SPECIALLY
SELECTED COMPANY.
ADMISSION— £t is. to la .
Box Flan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOB DAVIS
D I AQUARIUM.
popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
dally: Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
ls.j Children, 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d.
B
o r
The moi
Australia.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.45.
This and Every Evening, at half-past 7,
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD as the
ROMANY RYE. ROMANY RYE,
PRICES—6a., Sa., ts., and Is.
Box plan open dally at Vestibule from 10 till 5.
410 J P. MACDONALD. Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee; Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman.
Undoubted Success of the
BEST PANTOMIME EVER PRODUCED IN SYDNEY,
SINBAD THE SAILOR,
or
TINBAD THE TAILOR.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Maokay’s.
qyolorama.
BATTLE OP GETTYSBURG
BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG
at
THE ROTUNDA,
Opposite the Railway Station.
THE BIGGEST SHOW ON EARTH.
The Greatest and Most Sensational Novelty in
Australia,
CYCLORAM A.
OYOLORAMA.
No Sydney visitor should fail to see it. Open
daily from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sundays, from 3to
10 p.m.
THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG
THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG.
Admission, 2i.; Children, Is. Schools of 25 and
upwards admitted at a reduction of 25 per cent.
OYOLORAMA.
Jjl LITE SKATING RINK.
The Rink has the reputation of being the
BEST-CONDUCTED RINK
in the Australian colonies.
Here you are sure to meet the Elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
Admission, One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets :
Gentlemen, 45i. ; Ladies, 40s, Season Skate
Checks for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen,
15s. ; Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever
Clamp Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate
Ticket included, Gentlemen, 35r. ; Ladies, 30s.
Roller-bearing, 15s extra; Ball-bearings, £4
extra. Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair ; wholesale,
17s. 6d. Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station
every five minutes for the rink ; patrons carried
free. Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bed-
ford-street, opposite the Rink.
*TROCADERO %
KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Most Complete and Elegant Skating Rink
in Australia.
Cool and Refreshing Atmosphere I IKt
The Open Roof a Boon to Skaters!
Grain! Orchestra. Gorgeous Appointments.
ELECTRIC LIGHT.
* Skates Unequalled in the City!#
Look in future Advertisements for
particulars of
BRAND Um CARNIVAL & BALL
Open Daily. Usual Rink Prices.
GEORGE OUGHTON ... General Manager.
HOLT & WINNING,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTORS,
42 Down Strrkt,
OOLLINGWOOD, MELBOURNE,
ALL KINDS OF SCENERY MADE ON THE
SHORTEST NOTICE.
Egyptian Cigarettes
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO \
MELACHRINO f
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO J
M. Mclachrlno >t Co,
Cairo,
Supply all the Courts and Embassies
of Europe;
All the leading British and Continents
Clubs and Regimental Messes.
jgp~ nave the IAK«E?T SALE In the World.
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best 1
Sole Agents:
WARMS A ROWS, 11 Barrack Street, Ojdaej.
Public supplied direct i/n quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price, No. 5 Cigarette .. 85/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100..
„ No. 8. „ .. 66/- „ 7/- „
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
w
ESTERN AUSTRALIA,
Destined to become
A. NEW BRITANNIA in another World.
The man that hesitates is lost.
Then be wise in time ’tis madness to defer.
Send at once for Marked Flans.
MOORE PARK ESTATE, City of Perth.
WOOLLAHR A ES TATE, Albany, King George's
Sound.
Good Building Sites ; low prices. Ersy terms.
Torrens’ Title. Free deeds. Land is, and mnst
always remain, the best of all securities.
T. TATE & CO., 158 Pitt Street.
The recognised Agents for Western Anstralian
Freeholds.
FOR SLAB.—Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Gove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
Uniform a speciality; quality, fit and comfort. Mudi-
man. “Mv TaiOor.” 154 King Street, Newtown,
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importer t and Manufacturers,
Bath’s Biting Proton,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOMP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
ftc.i he., kl.
Btiam Works ahd Bbbwibt s
mm iniir, ultimo, itdiet
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
# Adam Bede’s *
Benevolent (Consultations.
“All the Yeab Hound,”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
On these events Adam Bede will devote a
portion of his commission to Charities, com-
mensurate with his success.
1,000
NOW OPEN,
Brisbane Cup,
Run at Brisbane, May 24, 1889
Subscribers at £1 Each,
1,000
First Horse £l6OO
Second Horse 600
Third Horse 400
Starters, £6OO ; Non-starters, £800; to be
divided amongst them.
10,000
Birthday Cup,
Run at Rand wick May 24, 1889.
Subscribers at £1 Each.
First Horse £4OOO
Second Horse £l5OO
Third Horse ... £lOOO
Starters, £l5OO ; Non-starters, £2OOO ; to
be divided amongst them.
Atom Sale’s is tin til; fair method of loafing.
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
mil on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bede until after the races have been run.
Subscribers must register their letters to
ensure safe delivery, and must enclose stamps
and envelopes for reply and result, and add
exchange to cheques.
Address
“ ADAM BEDE,”
Care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Dr. H. Ewart Fletcher.
Sufferers from NERVOUS DEBILITY can
get a clear insight into their cases by sending for
Dr. Fletcher's treatise on “Nervous Complaints,”
their
Cause, Symptoms, Treatment and Cure.
This admirable treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of
indiscretion in early life, overwork, irregularity in
eating or drinking, etc., etc., all of which bring
in their train a number of diseases which are
generally classed under the heading of Nervous
Complaints. Dr. Fletcher has spent) a great many
years in the study of these diseases, and has treated
a large number of cases during bis private practice,
and in consequence cf the success that has
attended his efforts, has decided to bring his
medicines more prominently before the public,
and to give to sufferers generally the benefit of
hit great experience in these diseases. Dr.
Fletcher wishes it to be distinctly understood that
he reserves to himself the right of refusing to un-
dertake any case, but if he does undertake it he is
willing to give a
WRITTEN GUARANTEE
to cure same, or return all monys paid. Persons
of both sexes who experience the following
symptoms, viz , D : zziness, Specks before the Eyes,
Pains in the Back, Defective Memory, Lois of
Energy and Vitality and Will Power, Constipa-
tion, Premature Decay, Liver and Kidney De-
rangements, &c , &c , should send for this book at
once, as it contains in a concise form simple direc-
tions to overcome same.
Remember Dr. Fletcher does not wish to infer
that he can perform miracles, but merely claims to
be thoroughly skilled in the treatment of these
diseases. Thousands have been cured by him, and
he invites sufferers to investigate his statements
by verifying the testimonials published in his
treatise. Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple
and effective, and within the reach of the poorest.
The treatise will be forwarded on receipt of two
stamps to cover postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER FREE.
Address in first instance :
Dr. H. Ewart Fletcher,
BOX, 1417,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Private residence:
“CLONMBI,” WAVER LEY.
Doyle’s New Hall, Jnnee, the best on the
Southern Line. New scenery and fire escapes.
Companies about to do the Southern trip would
do well to enrage at once. Wire or write to W.
J. Doyle, Commercial Hotel, Jnnee. Price
Moderate.
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
m
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand,
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, aad
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable ea-ly
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glas i attached ; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Ohaiis, 10 guinea?.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
ì
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
i
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. (id.
DININ(t TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS.
6x8,8x 8, 9 x 8,10 x 8,12 xB, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), flitted
with pulleys and cord, 6xB, 6s. 6d. ; BxB,
9s. ; 9xB, 9s. 6d. : 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8 12s. 6d.
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O Connell Streets.
i
A
MERIC AN PATENT
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
í
•'ANYAS FOLDING
J CHAIRS.
Substantial :and Light.
Suitable for Shipboa d awl
Verandah.
'Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehouseman,
Spring and O'Connell Streets.
LAWN and PARIK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast iron Standards, 14s. (id. each. Newton
and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs.
Indian Long-arm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc. ; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets. ;
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O'Connell
Street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
SPRING MATRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14b. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.


The Australian Wool Industry.
lv£r. Tda-rx. Sridgre’s Eateipxise.
Thebe are not wanting signs to those who are
fond of perusing dry columns of figures and poking
their noses into dusty volumes of statistical infor-
mation that Sydney is making rapid strides to-
wards the attainment of a pre-eminent position
in the world of wool. When Marcus Clarke wrote
his pleasant verses on “Wool is Up” and its
companion sketch, “Wool is Down,” the only
wool mart associated with his poetic ideas was that
of far-away London, where a condition of demand
or scarcity absolutely ruled the prices of the great
Mr. John Bridge’s New Wool Warehouse, Darling Harbour.
Australian staple. Of course this state cf
affairs still exist, but in a modified degree, and
this change, so beneficial to the interests of the
local producer, has been brought about in a great
measure by the pluck and enterprise of our loca*
wool firm?, who by affording facilities to the pro-
ducer to dispose of his wool nearer home, has
placed the wool business on a much more satis-
factory basis so far as the grower is concerned.
Some years ago Sydney was merely a dep6t. The
wool was brought to the city, stored at Circular
Quay to await transit, and was finally sent off to
the old world market solely at the grower’s risk.
Now, the manufacturers of Europe and America
have representatives in Australia during the wool
season. The cable keeps them in daily touch
with their principals, and with practically un-
limited buying power they attend the Sydney
markets and purchase according to their require-
ments. From July, 1888, up to the beginning
of April, 268,676 bales were catalogued at
the Sydney sales, and 204,247 were sold, an
increase for the same period of the previous year
of 42,762 bales catalogued and 47,273 sold. The
same remarks that we have made respecting the
centralising of the wool trade in Sydney applies,
and in a more marked degree, to hides, tallow,
marsupial skins, &o. Prominent amongst the
firms which have been instrumental in producing
this beneficial change is that of Mr. John Bridge,
a name synonymous throughout Australia for fair
dealing and enterprise. Mr. Bridge’s reputation
is not of a flash-in-the-pan character; it
Is good because It has stood the test
of thirty years’ trading, and has passed
untarnished through the ordeal, this vast busi-
ness is entirely under his own eye and that of his
two sons, and Mr. Bridge attributes much of his
success, and no doubt with reason, to the fact that
by retaining an oversight of the entire operations
of his firm, he is enabled to give equal attention
to the client who clips a hundred thousand sheep
and the client who sends him one little bale. It
is his proud boast that at his hands the smallest
•‘cockatoo” receives the same attention as the
largest squatter.
The thousands of the readers of The Bulletin
who at one time or another have had business
transactions with Mr. Bridge will, we feel ture,
be interested to bear of the continued expansion of
his business-an increase which has necessitated
the erection of a new wool warehouse at Darling
Harbour, Sydney. The building, which is being
erected from designs prepared by Mr. Piitchard,
architect, will be a handsome edifice, despite the
strict utilitarianism of its destiny. It occupies a con-
venient site opposite the Darling Harbour railway
station gates, and, being within a few yards of the
railway line, clients of the firm will be absolved from
the expense and delay incidental to cartage.
In form it will be almost square, and its seven
storeys will render it a conspicuous land-mark
in that portion of Sydney’s water-front. Several
hydraulic lifts will afford communication between
the several doors, and the architect has paid consi-
derable attention to the matter of natural lighting
a great desideratum in a business that requires the
display of suoh large quantities of raw material.
Arrangements have also been made for a complete
electric light installation, so that through the wool
season there will be safe effective illumination.
Some idea of the capabilities of the place
may be gathered from the fact that provision has
been made for the display of 12,000 bales of wool.
Besides the new warehouse cf which we give an
excellent illustration, the other branches of Mr.
Bridges business are conducted as of yore at Cir-
cular Quay and Sussex street. Besides Mr.
Bridge and his two sons, the colossal business
employes five auctioneers, 40 clerks, and upwards
cf ICO hands trained in the handling of wool,
grain, hides, and other station produce.
The requirements of this vast fondness requires
almost incessant labour, not only during the
period known as the wool season but throughout
the year. Taking all lines of farm and station
produce into account, Mr. Bridge’s business Is
about the largest in Australia.


JOSEPHSOFS OINTMENT,
Bt Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
$ WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the product on of the colony, composed of wild
plants indigenous to the country and nowhere else,
the principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS,
now so famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEAN It’S BITTEBS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this swcrn testimony from a well-known
citizen:
Statutory Declarations.
“I, Grorge Hkwktt, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows .
“ That 1 feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been tuffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called iNDI-
GE '-TION or D Y SPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
BOW’S STEANE’S WINE
Is a safe and sure stimfflant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persona. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and crea e a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur-
passed.
delion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USB.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN
SAYS ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned :
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horribly depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excel'ent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
" Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS.
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Soli Pbopbietobs,
Edward Row & Company,
il, «, *1 QIORGI STRICT.
VIOMIV.
O)
i
i
v*-
TOO MUCH EXPOSURE.
yr
/-
%
%
p
—Fuck.
Luxuriant Glosst Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthened and beautifler of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children,
Rowlands’ Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
In perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rouei'len, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 (jeorge-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.*
i
A
9>
©
o
<<
*
s
&
A
&
<b
*
r>
$
<y
o
<?
V
&
&
&
V
O
&
o
'O
&
v
o
s?
X/
A
X
5C
$
r\
0
0
<0
&
S'
<b
O
v
&
$
X
V
£
.0
O
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDKTEIY.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&0., &0., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
TATTBKSALL’S
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal races through-
out the year.
See Evening News Brevities for full particulars,
or write to “ Taltereall,” care of Geo. Adams,
Pitt street, Sydney.
ì
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to dll the other
Corsets I have tried."
(Signed) Marie Bote.
&
IQS
PATEN!
Dismal Sian Corset
Will not split in the Seams nor
tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine YA N
Corset stamped “TAN Paten
Diagonal Seam Conet, No. 119," in oval.
Three Gold Medals 11
■old by all Dvapen and Ladle* Ontfltlan.
£2O
BVCKBOASD BVCMUBE
£2O
Regular shipments of the Best Backboard
Buggies In the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 r Stub deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and foi
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Backboards with pole,
&0., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see ns. Terms: Cash i or
anger’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages. Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
Bbittenberg as oo„
• IMPORTERS,
81 CftABBNOB StBHHT, WTHIABD BQBABB.
Furniture, Minors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
ALLAH A. MARSHALL A CO.
Bnqinebbs, Ooppbbsmiths, Bbabb and Bbh Fobndbbb,
fIIMUBB, PiHMBBBS, GASfITTBBB, SHIP & GBNBBAIi SMITHS. AB* ft MEDIAEVAL MHTAL WORKHIB
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels,
fiolty's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already In use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description In
j |ga 0B Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances,
TOH ACCOM* WOKIR, • >se«uuri( Place, Sydney, and Btamnerc Bead, Petersham.
Jones’ ILfl->s.clxlsi©s,
- FOR ihk boot and tailoring trades.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now perfected, the NEW No. 3 and No. J t MACHINES on an entirely New Sys'em.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
miEIBB, IBTTBEIH & Co., Tannin ad Leather MtrcU,
16 YORK - STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for the above for Now South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for th® Boot Manufacturing
Imported Leathers, &e. | and of the following Special Lines
NUBIAN BLACKING- Tanners Tools and Materials,
Trade In all Details. Including Machinery*
> PEERLESS GLOSS. SATIN POLISH.
Indents executed on Favourable Terms
DB. RICHARDS.
IfCO
D? RICHARDS
\W/
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe, He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
Insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
Combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment
in the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness dur-
ing the day, circles around the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfullness, disccntentedness, weakness or pains
In the back, Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, Impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot honourably masry, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, and other symptoms
which lead to insanity and death, should consult
him, for he has mastered these difficulties. On
receipt of 6d. in stamps he will send secure from
observation in a plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private ot
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONI POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment,
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any cir-
cumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
oases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
(off Pitt Street North).
B$ n *re to mention this paper when writing.
Consultation Fill.


EPPS’S
grateful—Comforting
COCOA
GBD, GBD. GBD.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
i
i
Tii® lost In ill® World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS s
Mm Simkiit i Ei.
CLARENCE STREET
BEHAN’S
Blsucls Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
ms, emu & mi
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Soars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
UNEQUALLED
WOUNDS, SORB
BROKEN KNEES,
and QUARTER OK
and as an EMBR
CURBS, STIFF
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Bedfern.
Wholesale :
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug 00., S. Hofinung
and 00., J. Brush, Son and 00., W. EL Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Bbisbane ; B. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
j, BEHAN, Y.S., 33 Pitt Street, Bed 1 era.
PRICE ... Ss. 6d. Per Bottle ,
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
as a Dressing for FRESH
BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
, GREASY HEELS, SANE
,ACK, ITCH and MANGEi
OOATION for SPRAINS,
JOINTS and ENLARGE-
More than 70,000 OMei already Onred I
■he Greatest Success V
el Modem limes. /
OOKSUIiI
{ All'Chronic Disease
are Curable.
Hr, 1. E. ECSEUUIS, Ctmltis* Eclectic,
9»it.t.wt> Bphculibt fob all Oheokio Disk asks,
|| WILLIAM RIBESTf HEIBOVNI.
Any sufferers unable to oall oan write for a Hat of quel-
docs (nn) by whloh they oan be treated equally well at
#I Mr. treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
yon are Buffering from any form of disease do not fail lo
Obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
will tell you at once what it is, and the cost lor a
(Omplete cure. You oan then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
Gsed by him. > .
Reed the following Testimonial, one of thousands more I
[COPT.]
Glenhope, 10th July 1888
H. 1. Edoblmahh, Esq., Professor of Natural
Solenoe, &o.
Dear Sir,—This Is to certify that I, Frank E. B. Knight,
if Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1888, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
lake any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menoed to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went Into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doolor
Id Eyneton of considerable repute for months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a moat un-
healthy state, and presoribed.for me, and after treating me
f» five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
ates, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
Very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite In-
surable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
Ileotorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
ungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which 1
did in March, 1886, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
Skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand |
but after this crisis I commenced to Improve veryjasl.
Alter three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I oan do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK B. B.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhopt.
Declared before me this 6th day of August, 1886, at
lyneton.-THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
4V All Consultations Pres, H
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given whloh
Provides that No Oosr Is Incurred In the event of Gobi
hor nine Brnoim
AT the Federal Help Company, WANTED.
General Servants, Cooks, Nurses, House
maids, &c.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices: 72 Elizabeth street, near Hunter-
street.
J. STRAFFORD DIXON,
Secretary.
■One’s V>ews
O* SYDNEY,
JINOLAN OAVES, BLUB MOUNTAINS,
&0., &0.,
316 6EOS6E BT., Betwm Bmtef-rt., i B.P B
Musical.— patent scale indioa-
TOR, for pupils learning the PIANO.
Price 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of MUSIC,
ss. 6d., posted to the Country from INGHAM’S.
Sydney Aeoadh, Country Agents wanted
Stationer’s
Australian Roller Flour & Grain Stores,
GRANVILLE,
Sydney Office: 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King; Street).
BRUNTON’S
Patent —Boiler—Flour
AWARDED
The Highest Order of Merit
At every Competition, and “ Special Recom-
mendation ” of the iurors of the Melbourne
j-NTERNATIONAL CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION, 1888-9.
JMPERIAL HOTEL
EMU PARK,
William Toon ... Pbopbibtob.
This First-class Hotel, close to Beach, has every
accommodation. Shower and Plunge Bath. Good
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits only Stocked. WILLIAM TOON.
PETTY’S FAMILY HOTEL, York Street, Sydney.
■! = V
«■ LETTERS and TELESEAMS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Cil3.r@rLd.oz3. Hotel,
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
A T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
r% served on the shortest notice In the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most reeherehi
Unner, you can enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country j
tere also you can have good company, good wines—ln fact, everything that can make one
lOmfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Pishing and Picnic art! i irovided. Tdblt
Is H6tt at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
rliltora comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILHINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY,
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
THrpj
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
F
OR PRIVATE USB is Unsnrpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price—Single Razor,
10s. 6d.; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 la. Send P.O. Order.
CRAI6 & All KEN, Potosl Hair Catting Saloon,
Nine Halrcutters always Employed 1
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
LIOHTNER & KILBURN,
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic m Stock Importers,
Kate Uchtner A Co., 33 O’Connell Street.
LIOHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission Into partnership of Mr. D. 0. KILBURN, and removal Into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET, Between
Hunter Street and the General Post Office— trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage In the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavons to still deserve their
kind attention In the future.
LIOHTNER & KILBURN,
3181 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... ... ... £1,000,000
Paid-up and Subscribed £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chair-
man. ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq-, F.1.A.,
Deputy-Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest:
F-'r 3 years .. 7 per cent.
For 6 months 4 per cent.
For 1 year .. 6 per cent.
For 3 months.. 3 per cent
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate
seal of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving
a FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc , Collected.
Estates Sub divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract,
Head Office— lo, & 12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. 0. NEILD, Manager.
AUSTRALIAN
Mutual Mat fotiily.
iSBTABXjISHBD 184=9-
KEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dikeotoes ;
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq,, M.P., Chairman.
JAS. R. HILL, Esq., Deputy Chairman,
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Aotuaet:
MORRIOE A. BLACK. E.I.A.
Seceetaey :
RICHARD TBECB, F.I.A.
Chief Medical Offices : JAMES 0. COX, M.D,
The Society Is now In Its forty-first year, and la
the only Australian Life Office which gives
AS.MIAS, BONUSES.
Policies In Force, over 86,000
Sum assured (with Bonuses) over ... £33,000,000
Accumulated Funds nearly £8,000,000
Annual Income £1,500,000
Cash Bonuses Divided £3,250,000
Cash Bonus, for one year, 1887 ... £357,000
Policies are NOT FORFEITED if the Surrender
Value Is sufficient to pay one Premium.
“Magic Meal,"
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
Stock and Poultry.
Extracts from Testimonials:—
G. S. Ybo, Esq., Mulgrave Stud Farm, near Windsor I
“ I tried the 1 Magic Meal ’ on a horse bad with worms
and he seems to be improving fast."
Mr. H Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon: ••
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition."
Robt. A. Hill, Esq., Butterbone, Macquarie River: “1
tried the * Magic Meal ’ on a horse which would not fatten,
and now he is in grand condition. ... I consider it
Of especial value, as it saves horse eed."
Sold in Bags—7lbs. 35., Ijlbs. 6s. 6d., 66lbs.
18s. 6d., and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0,
Parcels of 661b5., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Fort within the Oolony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Castlerbaoh Stbmt,
SYDNEY.
EXTRAORDINARY.
£20,000 SPENT TO AMUSE AND INTEREST
THE PEOPLE.
Since the 11th October, 1880, Mr. P, J. Rumney’s
“WONDER” STAGE COACH
has covered no less than 163,595 English Miles in
perfect safety, and Mr. RUMNEY intends to run
it again this year between HATCHETT’S
HOTEL, PICCADILLY, and the fine old
cathedral town of ST. ALBANS. The trip is one
that no intelligent colonist visiting England ought
to miss, as it will rejoice his heart, purify his
blood, and enlarge hii views of English scenery
and manners.
Take it down in your pocket-book Mr. P. J
RUMNEY, THE “WONDER” COACH!
Hatchett’s Hotel, Piccadilly, London.
H. HILDEB,
BOOT-UPPER MANUFACTURER,
Importer op
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
ELASTIC WEB, GRINDERY, &0,,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G A fl
GAB.
.G ▲ B.
Proteat yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 119 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
F. W. OURNOW, Manager.
Oflite Honri j I to 6, and 9 to 1 on Satnrdayi gj


WESTERN AUSTRALIA: The Coming Colony.
sss.” PoB^ ?ss&ssarssst A <SMS. TO
KT NOW la the time to invest your FEW POUNDS •«
ter to REAP very shortly your THOUSANDS.
TIN, and other minerals have been made, and with
Call on the W. A. Agents (G. W. DENT & CO.), and
Numerous Propertios for Salo to suit LARGE and oMAliii
119 a Blizabetla. Street, S3rd.ra.e3r.
graph OSSae, Wiagham
BRUCE SMITH
Department of Public Instructiin,
Sydnty, I6ib April, 1889.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONAL BUILDING.
TENDERS are in vitr d for the Erection of an
Additional Building for Boys at Rockdale
Public School.
Plana and Specifications may be seen, and
Forms of Tender obtained, at the iffije cf the
Department of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tendetr, endorsed “ Tender fer Additional
Building, Rockdale Public Schcol,” must be
Irdged with the Under Secretary. Department of
Public In* traction, at or before 12 o’clock noon on
WEDNESDAY, the 8 h MAY, 1889.
The Minister does not bind himrelf io accept
the lowest or any Tender.
J. H. CARRUTHER3.
gQUARE
AND COMPASS CLUB.
5s CONSULTATIONS ss.
An unlimited number of members
At 5s Each.
FIRST HORSE. 50 per cent.
SECOND HORSE 30 per cent.
THIRD HORSE, 20 per cent.
N.B.—The Square and Compass Club closes all
Consultations at the he us advertised, posts and
distributes results half an hour before each race—
thus showirg the bona fides o! the iff air. The
rooms where the telegrams are posted can be
visited by subscribers only. # The full results of
every event are always advertised in the Rbfebbe
and Sunday Times following the races.
Motto -*• Fair and Square ”
Look at the Dividends we have paid on the
DONCASTER HANDICAP.
RUSSLEY £95 3 6
PLUTARCH 7 2 9
LADY KINGSBORO’ ... 12 13 10
Consultations on Every Event.
Note the address of the Oiicina! —
SQUARE AND COMPASS CLUB,
Care of M. PALM,
656— George street— 6s6
COLONNADE.
jrjr CONSULT IT
Moore & Hogg
Xi I the EMINENT A a
I SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases df the Genitourinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
7 CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
' and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
001.8ULTAT10N3 FREE. PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp-
THE CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMAL-
GAMATING. AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY.
Works : CLYDE, N S.W.
Hun Opficb: 46 CASTLERBAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
PIRKCTORS :
Jambs Flbtohbr, M.P., Sydney; Jambs A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Hbnry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney ; T. D. Mbrton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charlbs
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
These works have been erected at large cost for
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores In quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold-saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical laboratory) will be under the imme-
diate direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suc-
cessfully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further information, apply
W. B. FLBTOHBR.
ARBENZ’S RAZOR,
WITH WARRANTED INTERCHANGE-
ABLE BLADES.
The best, most reliable and easiest Shaver in
the world. Used by Teddy Wick, the Champion
Barber, who, after his recent great feat in London,
wrote “ Your Razors always kept me to the
front during the competition, and you may be
prcud of my well earned victory. They are a
great improvement on the old-fashioned Razors,
and lam delighted with their performances. The
harder the beard the bt tter they shave. I shaved
some nights with them blindfold, and did not cut
one man all the week.
Price, 10s. per set of four; 14s. per set of seven
Extra Blades, Is. 4d each.
May be had of LICHTNER & SOLOMON
32 O’Oocnell Street, Sydney.
i
Fashion,
PIT, and
Finish,
JUDGE FOR YOURSELVES!
We have in Stock
AND
■aka to Order
THE FINEST
Bui Sews Soots and Shoes
AT PRICES
THAT
Defy Competition !
A Visit will Prove the above Assertions.
TEE CO-OFEEAIiVE £0.7 US CO.,
376 GEORGE STREET SVDNEY
(Opposite David Jones and do).
ì
í
Hawkesbury river, summer
SEASON.
SANITORIUM HOTEL.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, Is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished; boating and fishing; three-
quarters of a mile fr»m the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &o.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.
Peapes & Shaw's New Establishment
Acknowledged by all who have yet honoured them with a Visit
TO BK
The L&UE&T & HOST COMPUTE GEHILEMEIfS ODIUM WASEESE ASWBEBE,
Either in the COLONIES or the OLD COUNTRY.
PEAPES and SHAW are now showing the whole of the Gxdj contained in the Two
Beautiful Cases recently stown by
WELCH, MARGETSON & CO., at the MEI BOURNE EXHIBITION.
Visit Peapes and Shaw for Stylish Tailoring.
For Beautiful Ties and Scarfs.
For Newest Shapes in Hats.
For Perfect Fitting Shirts.
For Cheap and Good Beady made Suits.
VISIT
PeaiMJS
d
Shaw
For Boys' Beady made Cloth i/ny.
For Newest Shapes in Collars.
For Your Winter Overcoats.
For Boys' and Youths' Eton Suits.
Visit reapes and Shaw when you want anything for Travelling.
—REMEMBER!—
The Largest and Choicest Selection of Goods
FOE
HEN, YOUTHS and BOYS,
IS AT
Peapes axa-d. Slb.a.'w’s,
Right opposite their Old Shop In GEORGiE STREET.
LEA&PERRINS SAUCE
A\lt
MV pfc^Rl^
JTn consequence of Imitations of THE WORC ESTERSHLRS
SAUCE_ which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have Jo request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bolt Is
hears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the, original WORC ESTERSHIRS
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PER R J NS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, BoClt and
Stepper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse And
' Blackwell, London. <S~V,, &rc. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
The Anjlo-ktralian Investment, Times
AND
LAND COMPANY (Limited.)
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,000
Head Office: ■ 34 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman —HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J P.
Vice-Chairman —F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office: ■ 31 Lombard Street E.C.
Chairman — Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
This Company was established in 1881, and, as
the result of wise and enter prising management,
has won its way to the front rank amongst Invest-
ment Companies.
The amplest security is offered to Depositors,
inasmuch as the Company has large and valuable
city rent-producing properties, besides its well-
known suburban estates, which are mostly within
a very short distance of important r* ilway stations.
Deposits received in large or small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the
current rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES, Manager.
PEETH
The Capital City of
WESTERN AUST ALIA.
The Best Investment Going 1
GOOD BUILDING SITES
Paddington Estate, Perth.
From Ten Pounds each Lot.
TEN POUNDS! TEN POUNDS!
Only £1 Deposit; Balance in 36 equal Monthly
Payments. DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Early application will secure good Corner Lots.
Western Australia is rapidly progressing and
property is hardening in value .
Buy Now! Buy Now!
And reap Large Profits like early purchasers in
other Australian capital cities.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets post free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W, J. Dodqlas ... ... Manager,
NERVOUS ME
'\a l ,
\ v V '■ *ii;i>* ,i l7SnTTTTnii^Li- , _r -.1,
■M/.
M
}l l V i VWreka \ : /
DIELECTRIC BELT
m2«|\a / aA.\-. . - -'-.v-
A?
•i. V
/*
/T \
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Bains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., SypsKV.
The Imperial Land, Building I Deposit Co,
(Limited), N.S.W.,
HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS, 171 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Managing Directors:
Alex. Milsop, Esq., J.P,, Chairman.
H. L. Summbrpibld, Esq. Wm. Martin, Esq., J.P.
E. V. Manning, Esq. Wm. Byrnes, Esq.
General Manager:
William P. Smairl, Esq., J.P.
This Company undertakes all usual Banking and Build-
ing Society Business on the most favourable terms.
Fixed and Current Deposits received and Interest allowed
at the following rates :—l2 Months, 7 per cent., 6 Months,
6 per cent., 3 Months, 5 per cent. Advances to Muni-
cipalities on the Security of rates on very liberal terms.
On City, Suburban, and Country Properties at lowest
current rates. Liberal assistance given to build or pur-
chase. Annuities purchased or advanced on. Mortgages
guaranteed, the punctual repayment of interest, or
principal, or both. Dividends collected In the United
Kingdom or the Colonies. Communications addressed
to the General Manager will receive prompt attention.
FOR SALE.—Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Oove Rivers, Apply
Bulletin Office.


nows .
tvEMBBOCATlONy^
** s
m
\£m-
•\tLVER v WHERE'i
' SOLD
i
giBRLB & COMPANY,
4I«1I WBIfIBS
AHB
•ART ++ DBOOBATOBB—
M Castlereagh Street*
Oni Doob fboh King Stbbw.
B
R O U’
INJECTION,
HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESBRVATITK.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J* ■ F iU Jrt !E% ill *
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
MEN ONLY!!
Sufferers from Nervous
Complaints. Sore core;
14 days. Apply in confidence to "MEDIOUS,”
Box 120, G.F.0., Sydney. Personal advice by
appointment, Fbkb.
BOWDENS
»mns
NOTE l
BOWDEN’S SOTHL,
Elizabeth Strrrt (near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOIBPH C BOWBEK - - Pr*prl««wr
ONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
Toowoomba.
Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation, Private
Suites, First-class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Company, Limited.
NOORFORATBD UNDKR COMPANIES AO*, lit*.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Sydney Office;
Corner o! MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices—2B3, Collins Street Bast,
(next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle.
Personal Guarantee, and all cl» ases of Meroantii
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repaj
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS*
3 months, 5 per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months,
2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent 6 months, li per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
KOBERT BUTCHER & GO.
ha\e REMOVED their Whplesrle Wine
aud Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst & Liverpool Streets),
WINES. SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out ol
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
. ROONEY & Co.,
a A. W.MILLERS,
Timber Ktitbuti »ii Item Joisen,
TOWNSVILLE.
Largest stock of Oregon pine anc
Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &0-, In
Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery A speciality.
Country & Station Orders promptly despatched.
KEEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE
SADDLE COMPANY, Limited.
Factory and Office—24s Oaatlereagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreak-
ab’e Sandies is now carried on at our new premises.
245 Oaatlereagh-street, Sydney, where trade orders
will receive prompt attention.
None Genuine without our Trade Mark.
CAUTION.
The sole right of the above patent having been
purchased by the undersigned, saddlers, and the
public generally are Cautioned against any in
fringements of the same.
For Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
Limited
F. O. HKDEMA.NN \
L. O. HENDERSON /
Trustees.
The federal reversionary
INVESTMENT AND FIN NOIAL
COMPANY, Limited
Incorporated under Companies’ Act, 1874.
CAPITAL, 6200,000
SYDNEY OFFICE, 301 PITT-STRBBT
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate Advances granted Bills Discounted
daily. Communications from the country promptly
attended to. The following are the rates of in
terest allowed on Fixed Deposit;—3 Years, 10 pe*
cent.; 12 Months, 9 per cent ; 6 Months, 8 p‘
per cent. : 3 Months, 7 per cent. By order of IN
Board of Directors. A. w MILLER Manage
Jon Roimmi,
(Lot* of SaytoM'a Tobacco OoJ,
Wholesale and Retail
TOBACCONIST,
532 George Street
(Onoun TOWN HALL),
SYDNEY.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS, UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7|d. per lb. (if® 6
from seed), Gate Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30s. to 505., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters, Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frill-
ings, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER’S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free, Patterns upon awliratlon.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address-LAWLER, SYDNEY.
J. LAWLER~& SONS,
Gknbbai Impobtbbb and Houbb Fxjbhibhbb*
SYDNEY.
■stab&tbhid 1881.
BourkeS 1
ELBOUME
TRAMS PASS
EVERT FEW m MINUTES
i
i
J. A.WILSON
PMMIEIDB
siavHVM
lyyimry.
Th* PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
18
17 NOW OPEN, -s-i
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxi
mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. Tr contains
XHUEE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Fixbd Lavatobt Basin, Hot and Cold Watkk, and Shampoo Sprat.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by th•
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells.
TheM Bedrooms are fitted up 'in the most Luxurious Modem Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies.
m TWO PASSEMOEK OTIS UFTB.
LADIES' BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
Terms 1585 LE BE3EOOM, 2s. SI. ner
/ Entitling the Oc- apler to the privilege of
\ using the Pabtlc Rooms of the Hotel.
WBiATiS earn 50 had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
Fall jiillwilaii M to toe Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to toe
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
• •
HIGHLY (MUTRITWE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
hthur d. sp abding
HOMCEOPATH, ALLOPATH,
HERBALIST,
36 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET).
I have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and women
without the aid of nauseous drugs so pernicious to
the system and so objectionable to the palate. I
will guarantee a
COMPLETE CURB IN A FEW DAYS,
or will refund the < money. Now what can be
fairer for both parties ?
The time Is over when, it was necessary
to use substances nauseous, such as Copaiba
and Oubebs, by which so many evils were
caused. The diseases alluded to above arq, as any
sane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (as I will prove) be cured by local treat-
ment, without the use of any Caustic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &o,
I will not make you call constantly so as to pay
several fees. My terms are One Charge Only, or
NO CURE NO PAY. *
Up country residents treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
lommunications treated as strictly confidential.
Private Consulting Rooms and Laboratory,
35 BLIGH STREET.
Hours 10 to 12 ; 2 to 4, and 7 to 9 p.m.
To the
LICENSED VICTUALLERS, BREWERS,
and
GENERAL BUSINESS MEN
of Sydney.
LEONARD GWTN
has the pleasure to Inform his Friends and the
General Public that he has commenced Business as
Hotel and Sonera! Bum Broker,
and trusts to merit a share of their support. It
is his intention to sell all classes of Businesses on
COMMISSION ONLY
He also wishes to draw the attention of his
future clients to the fact that NO CHARGE will
be made unless a sale is effected, and in the eve# 1
of a sale being completed the charge will be
STRICTLY MODERATE.
8 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS
(First floor),
PITT STREET.


That famous old Sydney hoatelrie, the
Grand Hotel, Wynyard Square, has changed
hands and is now nnder the management of Mr.
P. Hust, a name synonymus with a first-class
cuisine, the best of liquors, good attendance, and
every other essential that goes to make a first-
class hotel.
\>\Ht
Murder!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest of selected Virginia
crops by F. W. Saywkll, of 6
Park-street, it will
Arrest
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure Brands now on
the market. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the nume-
rous poisons
Imprisoned
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, and obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Retail from
F. W Say well & Co.,
6 Park-street, Sydney.
f*f.
-
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin; is
most cooling' and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Co our.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath. -
R. OW L A INI O S E U O lAy a pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints — White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Chemi ts 4 n( i Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
American Hotel,
/ Corner of George Street \
\ and Queen’s Place, /
SYDNEY.
J. B. BENJAMIN, Proprietor.
TheAMERiCAN Exchange
Hotel, which has just been
opened, is situated in the heart
of the city, and in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks,
Exchange, Post Office, Govern-
ment Buildings, etc., etc.
The BEDROOK ventilated, and
furnished very handsomely,
equal to any hotel in Australia.
The DIK!MO[« £ r.f« e
spect and worked on the Ameri-
can principle.
Drawing, Smoking,
AND
Reading Rooms.
Full particulars as to Tariff, &c.,
may be obtained on application
at American Exchange Hotel.
Telegrams and Communications
promptly attended to.
-A -
HOTEI-
BtCHUW
IMO'I
rn
< _
—7 -• ' r ~~ ~” ’ i
K’ **\V' ‘ ** ""
' ■■ : ‘ : '■' • ' ISiSiS
p; ■ ; V., ? A: ‘;P.. • p
■
Mlny
«Ph , .
- ;? P:. ■
-7'IIS
Elfowm WIOIB-EHC.fIO-. B.'aaiDC£-ST,^Sl6D<iEti
Tho Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
-!: s-
H. THORPE ... ... Proprietor,
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Ouly twu hours from Melbourne.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melooume, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
An Open letter
To Francis Abigail, Esq-jibe vt p., N.S.W ,
Ex-Minister for Mines
My Dear Francis, —When Sir Henry Parkes,
who has now basely abandoned you as he abandons
every other squeezed orange, some months agi
menaced N.S.W with the coming thne when it
would be compelled to regard you as one of the
most trusted and influential of its public men he
threw out a ghastly threat which mis;ht have
wrung a sob from even a strong man who loved
his country. Have you thought the matter over 2
Remember that it takes two parties to a bargain ;
and neither Parkes nor the country—though both
have done many queer things—has any power to
compass such a fell disaster if you relent in time.
It rests with yourself to ward off this horrible
catastrophe and thus make up in public esteem
for what you may forego in p ditical trust and in-
fluence. I therefore wish you to step nutside
yourself, as i» were, and, divesting yourself of the
smell of boot-uppers, also of the tinted spectacles
of your Orange Lodge, as well as of that hard
shell of contracted sympathy and inveterate pre
judice from which your stunted organism secures
its safe but narrow outlook on the outer world —to
examine yourself frankly from an independent
standpoint. Your species is curious, but by no
means rare.
• • •
You have prospered apace, Francis. It does
not seem so long ago since you plied your useful
trade in that little hut in Sussex street, Sydney—
and far be it from me to scorn your honest
poverty. You were sober, Francis, and frugal;
the patient Chinese were not more patient or long-
suffering, more meek and yielding than you Then
a small shop in George-street saw your modesti
name; it sees it still. At the council-board of
more than one pauper asylum you lifted up your
still small voice; and the murky gloom of Orange
Lodge-rooms was bored by your corkscrew elo-
queues. The next step was an easy one You
went into Parliament. You lent money from
your honest hoardings to Parkes You became,
to your astonishment, a responsible Minister of
the Crown.
You were elected to Parliament on clearly-
defined and tangible grounds. It is a cardinal
point in the N.S. Wales public policy of to-day
that the British type of colonist must be main-
tained, and that the political liberties and public
privileges for which William Charliss Wintworth
and William, Prince of Orange, fought each other
to a finish at the battle of the Boyne should ba
inviolably preserved. They are safe in your
hands. It is not to be expected that the flood of
British freedom which from dark antiquity hath
flowed with pomp of waters unwithstood should
perish, and for evil and for good be lost while
Francis Abigail is in the 'Case ! Have you not in
times past haggled long and loudly on Hyde Park,
Sydney, with partisans of the Pops and enemies
of the Terewth, making the peaceful Sabbath eve
hideous with those honest outcries which rent the
welkin with a sound like the ripping of corrugated
iron, or of crippled stage-thunder? Have you
not driven the Pope into his last ditch, and waved
the Bloody Shirt of Australian politics on the last
battlement of the routed foa ? Of course, you
have, Francis. You may affect to deny it in your
modesty—wagging the wily head of depreciation
and coyly protesting “No, no!” But I know you,
Francis ; and you have.
* - •
As you prospered your clamour grew louder.
Your once small voice was not so still It in-
creased in volume as you emerged from your
shell. You found a Knight of Sb Gregory at the
head of the Government and you marked him well
with your gaze. It would never do to clear the
Pope’s partizans off Hyde Park and find them
taking refuge in the House or in the Government.
With the eye of a rat and the nose of a beagle you
followed up every trace and s cent of the Scarlet
Lady that sitbeth upon the Beast, and the quest
lent a flavour of high conscientiousness to your
discharge of what you conceived to be the Legisla-
tive function. You meant well, and your inten-
tions were always honest, men said. But the
grammatical construction of your sentences was
defective And you know, Francis, you could
never spell. The consequence might have been
predicted by the veriest tyro in colonial politics.
When the Jelly-fish Ministry went its way into
congenial oblivion, you were one of those chosen
by Sir Henry Parkes to hold the office of Minister.
You had probably never been out of Sydney in
your life sines you entered it You knew nothing
whatever, as you have since admitted, about the
interior of the country. Your knowledge of the
mineral kingdom was confined to your own lap-
stone, as that of the vegetable kingdom was no
doubt mainly drawn from inspiriting coloqnies
with your Chinese market-gardener. Your fitness
for a specialist’s office was at once transparently
manifest You became Minister for Mines with-
out a blush.
* • •
If you did blush, you did it in strict seclusion.
In public your manliness in the matter did you
surpassing credit. It is true scornful men have
since coldly said that you were buoyed up with
the consciousness of having done Parkes a good
turn by lending him money. Several of your col-
leagues had also lent their leader funds; £2OO each
seems to have been the proper caper. But the
base assumption that this insignificant sum bought
positions in the Cabinet of the country for a pack
of leather-sellers, rum-purveyors, and bagmen, is
triumphantly disproved by the fact that soma
never gave anything, while at the figure given the
£65,000 of Parkes’ liabilities would have sufficed
to buy up all the portfolios under tha sun. This
charge is arithmetically and otherwise absurd. If
Parkes gave you a portfolio because he owed you
£2OO, how was he to meet the corresponding claims
of the rest of his creditors ? The only course open
to him to preserve his independence was to pay
hardly anybody. He did it.
The act that made you a Minister of the
Crown was only paralleled by that of Sir
John Robertson when he made a Postmaster-
General of Dan O Connor, or, earlier still,
of John Davies No two men have ever taken
such liberties with high State offices and the
Queen’s Engliih as this brace of antiquated
knights. But it would be curious to inquire more
closely why Parkes made a Cabinet Minister of
you. Was it for your educational attainments
and University polish 2 Not quite; yet, I don’t
say, being, like yourself a Democrat, that the high
offices of the State should be reserved for men
with that qualification- Is your elevation due to
your innocence of this fatal polish ? Well, you
must not give yourself aits on that account,
Francis. I have known many healthy Democrats
who could spell correctly, and speak grammatically
in the English tongue with ease and even fluency.
You have claims on this latter ground, it is true ;
but it is always a sad thing to observe a good man
grow “cocky” over his good points. Avoid it,
Francis I
Your honesty was your strong point—not bluff,
but genuine. No one ever said you were bluff ;
you are not of that kind. You gave one evidence
of your genuine honesty in taking office in a Free-
trade Ministry. You were once, you know, a
Protectionist—as your business interest’, indeed,
prompted you to be You wickedly made a
species o! bet—not bluff, but genuine—that you
had never admitted this. Bluff men pay bets
when they lose them ; you have not paid us over
that £25 yet. Then you took another plunge. You
accepted 500 shares in a workman’s bank. The
Bulletin showed how its business was conducted
and someone or other was so much struck by toe
force of its strictures that he promulgated a
rumour so the effect that you only continued to
hold office pending an actuarial examination and
report on the business of the institution ; but yet
you still leave your name at the head of that list
of directors concerning whom it is utterly unaec-
cesary at the present date to say anything.
There is still time to relent and with-
hold the fulfilment of Parkes’ ghastly
threat which he—now being ‘more popery than
fiscal,” in that he has thrown you over in
favour of D. O’Connor—appears not unwilling to
withdraw. You perhaps do not realise that the
stamp of man who is to earn trust and influence in
the Australia of the immediate future is not to
cater for the class that apotheosised the digger
Gillies and the toy maker Paikes The day of the
toymaker who turned his back on his Chinese
mandarins to pander to the propertied classes, and
the Liberal digger who exchanged the working
man’s red shirt for the black coat of Conser-
vatism, is gone. It is possible, I repeat, that you
do not realise this. But if not the awakening
public spirit of Young Australia will recognise it
for you and save you the trouble It does not
object to the leaoher-seller or the bootmaker. But
it does and will most strongly repudiate the Free-
trader cum - Protectionist - boss -‘ banker ”- cum-
philanthropist Orange-cwm-Cockney cock-tail who
does not know how to stick to his last —Candidly
yours,
SUNDOWNER.
The refinements of civilisation are fast
spreading into the interior of the Dark Continent,
and soon hotels will rise in Abomey and Coomassie,
and the son of a thousand cannibals will loaf over
the bar and spoon with the dusky Ethiopian maid
who clutches the beer-engine. Amongst the latest
improvements, a railway has been constructed
from Delagoa Bay, extending northwards towards
the border of the Portuguese settlements, and a
wandering Australian in these parts lately took
his ticket by this line that he might see the
wonders of the misty land. Behind the iron horse
he plodded patiently along, through squalid
villages full of dirty niggers and through dirty
villages full of squalid niggers, over swamps and
beside arid hills, till at last he reached the terminus
and stepped out. Then, being a politician with a
tendency to make speeches, he waved his hands
in the air and remarked aloud that now at last he
stood in the interior of,the great, lone, mysterious
continent, where the ruins of ancieut kingdoms
were being eaten up by white ants and then he
gave a shrill, clamorous yell and climbed back
into the carriage to hide himself under the seat
The station was surrounded by crocodiles, and a
lion was walking up and down the platform lash-
ing his tail, and the porter and station master
were perched on an adjacent roof, and the ticket-
taker was gazing with a scared countenance out
of his pigeon-hole. They explained that they
didn’t mind the crocodiles as these saurians were
always there, but it was the lion they objected to.
Thus are the wondrous works of Providence dis-
played to those who go round in foreign parts.
George R. Sims, who lately visited Monte
Carlo, tells the story of a romantic suicide at that
truly suicidal spot“ A young married man, of
Lyons, fell in love with a young married woman.
They met secretly, adored each other, and agreed
to fly together—to put the seas between them-
selves and their families But there was a slight
difficulty in the way. They had very little money
for a long journey, and they wanted r,o ba far, far
away—in America for choice. Then the idea cams
to the man that they would take their small
-capital of a few hundred francs and ko to Monte
Carlo, and make it into a fortune —a fortune which
would enable them to live in peace and plenty on
a far-off shore So it came that one day, with a
small box and a portmanteau, the fugitives
arrived at Monte Carlo, and put up in a little
hotel where for 8f r. a day you can have bed and board.
They had only a few hundred francs with them.
In the letter which they have left behind they
explained that from the first their arrangements
were complete. They foresaw the possibilities of
the situation. They would play until they had
won enough to go to America, or they would lose
all. And if they lost all they would die together,
and give their friends no further trouble about
them. They were a few days only in Monte
Carlo. They risked their louis only a few at a
time, and they spent the remainder of the days and
evenings in strolling about the romantic glades and
quiet pathways of the beautiful gardens, whispering
together of love, and looking into each other’s eyes.
The end came quickly. One evening they went
up in the soft moonlight to the fairy land of
Monte Carlo. They entered the Casino. They
had come to their last few golden coins. One by
one the croupier’s remorseless rake swept them
away, and then the lovers went out of the hot,
crowded rooms, out from the glare of the chande-
liers and the swinging lamps, into the tender
moonlight again. Down “the staircase of
Fortune ” arm in arm they went, along the
glorious marble terraces that look upon the
sea, on to where at the foot of the great
rook on which Monaco stands there lies
the Oondamine. It was their last walk to-
gether. The loners were going homo to die.
That night, in some way which I was unable to
ascertain, the guilty and ruined man and woman
obtained some charcoal and got it into their bed-
room. Then they closed the windows and doors,
and prepared for death. They wrote a letter—a
letter which an official assured me was so touch-
ing that as he read it in the room where they lay
dead the tears ran down his cheeks. Then the
girl—she was but a girl— dressed herself in snowy
white and placed in her breast a sweet bouquet of
violets. And the charcoal was lighted, and the
lovers laid themselves out for death, side by side,
and passed dreamily into sleep, from sleep to
death, and from death to judgment.”


Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 4S MARGARET STREET
(Between Ctoorge and York Stnets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.B. (tar confirmation see New Zealand
Base te, January Slot, 1880; also New South Wales
gazette, April 17th, I 860). The doctor has devoted 11
years to fee study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him; to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
ptm will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
ASOO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
In other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a eertain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
Me wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
lo perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous pow r»
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality— CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES Or MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
ffercßß, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
M > urms INVALIDS
Has An ENORMOUS SALE in England, and
la now being introduced into the colonies.
aSvery Storekeeper should get a supply
«« every wise mother will certainly
use it.
Dr. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
IFE PRESERVATION
“ BY
Dr. J. D, LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Street East, Melbourne.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
On health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
00., 4 A Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
CBSTC PRESCRIPTIONS are to
fif fefe be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS
DEBILITY and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy
of this book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six
Penny Stamps. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street, Sydney.
fIJUMANEaSOHS
EuCALYP-Tt OILSa
VicroßY Ointment^
THE TREE OF LIFE
£,
The only pure Eucalypte In the World,
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Medical.
i WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
"Worth a Guinea a Box.
PATENT
PILLS.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be w ithout them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lo'st complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by membeis of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills;
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbrcham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. fid. each.—-Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.— Full directions are given with «uh box.
EBYOUS DEBILITY.
Consult by Letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addressed Id. stamped envelope, forward advice
and his Medical Book Free. Address—
Herr RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
npO SUFFERERS.
Consult Personally or by Letter
Cowan & Anderson,
Eclectic Physicians,
On all Chronic Diseases.
They Treat and Cure all Chronic, Nervous, and
Special Diseases of both sexes on the ECLEC-
TIC PRINCIPLE.
CONSULTATION and ADVICE \FREE.
Absolute. Secrecy observed in all cases.
N.B.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation
and securely packed, to all parts of the Colonies.
Note the Address:
COWAN & ANDFRSOA,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispknbabt,
182 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
A Wonderful Discovery
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
This valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure Swelling s -
Sandy Blight, inflamed Kyes and lids, minis
of Sight, etc. It will be found very beneficial and euom«.
to those who have weak eyes, or whose w. rk compels tin
to strain their eyes.HHighly recommended by the leadm.
Oculists.
n x* _ • The public are requested bo notice r* «
UaUtlOH ! w ords, “ ROSE’S CELEBRATED El I
LOTION ” with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark B’ui
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
MSS 1 ; CELEBRATED E7E LQTIOI
Not tor Bose Eye Lotion,
vou will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water pahrei 4
' on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
L Ml} Blsmsiiis & taficto? Chemist
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. (By post. 3s. 6d.)
rmr Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’SJGOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
u s
T PUBLISHED
„ A most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains information most valuable in Ner-
>us and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rules
■e worth its weight in gold. Send your full
[dress, and we will send Post Free One Oopy,
yen away for the next Six Months Only. Write
, Professor R. T. SELBY, Cleveland Street,
urry Hills, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements
—We Can Recommend —
B. EUGENE’S
(from Paris)
LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most Central and Well-Appointed
of any in tho City.
Wlfi-MIKIIfG and HAIR WORK. It
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
Note the Address:
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 63 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all binds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
arris. 4
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
if the world.
E.B.H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
I and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages,
i No connection with any other office.
Address : 63 SYDNEY ARCADE.
“ For Framing a Picture Neat ani Well"
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George Street (Opposite
loyal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
lie., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
•qual to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges,
pecial attention paid School Drawings. Plush
ork a speciality. Inspection invited.
■. .
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
OHUESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &o.
Cooperage:
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
AUCH
in
i
HUGH
INC
7.
PO
n A
\NUFACTURED 6Y aa ■& Ak
l/jQM£S C/fANNOn Jin arbour S' fSjjjl
■ cfckt &V O-K SaoCCAjA *, SSo™*¥jhfjno_
Business Announ cements.
Guiness’s Extra stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
mm
'Vio-
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents:
B AIC HIN, JOHNSTON ud Co.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond St., Sydney.
UMBRI :llas
Rl*€©¥lR£o.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame*
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
3, SULLIVAN’S,
641 George Street,
Beiokfibld Him., Sydney,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
2*
*UHUfA«TUR£R3
ft IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPS it
438 CEORCE ST
3VDNEY
ff/o/fosiCe LaoatCCers
Brandi t
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
ì
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And ft* ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Hotels.
Comley's Hotel,
EMU PARK, ROCKHAMPTON.
FRED. OOMLEY ... Propiowor.
ACKNOWLEDGED the Finest Hotel on the
Coast. Overlooking the Bay, with every
Convenience. Dining Hall 80 x 40.
CONVEYANCE MEETS EVERY TRAIN.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE.
Proprietor.
PRINCE OF WALKS' HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street, Fast,
This well-known Sporting House Is conducted
In First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.
FOR SALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Hirers. Apply
Bulletin Oppior.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON UADB
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30a. to 21b.
MS PITT ST., SYDNEY (Near TatterMll’B*)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice at Long at
any other leather.
i-.V
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
& LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
MASON BROTHERS,
(limited,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND OKNBBAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN AND CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MEL YIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
í
P. R. IjARKIN,
IMPORTKB OF
or WINBS, SIP I XII TS, BEERS SsC mj &>£)„ "W
George and Glpps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Herinessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
KST The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. tSS" All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
-{ : Y
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
tar SEND FOR A PRICE LIST, ta
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' REFRESHMEMF ROOM and LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hoedebn & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE
Mew Zealand Loan &. Mercantile Agency
Company, Limited,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, 500,000, Reserve, £270,000.
Wool Seasoop 1888-89.
REGULAR SALES OF WOOL HEED
THROUGHOUT THE SEASON.
THE greatest care best awed on the Valuation,
and the Displaying and Protecting all Wools
entrusted to the Company for sale, whether from
large or email clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before
Sales of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, when desired, on Wool
lien of ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Fro*
duce, whether for sale in Sydney or shipment to
London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial Skins,
Hides, Tallow, &c., held regularly.
Every information supplied on application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loptds Streets.
Genuine Swedish made • crown
BRAND ” HORSE aHOE-N AILS
are superior to all others and lower in price.
Samples to be had at any leading Ironmongers,
or from
a A . FALSTFDT ,
Sole Agent for Australia,
146 PHILIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY. ;
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the oiivlised world where
the healing’virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneflcient action is at onoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. S3T Pur.
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they us
spurious
inspect the sweet
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THB
WertHelm
SEWIMB MACHINE DEPOTS
IV
VICTO R I A.
THE
Wolse/ey Sheep Shearing Machine
PASTOBALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
AfiENTBI
T, S. QEDDES Co.,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney. I
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man’s Watch. Made suitable for Hard Biding and Bough Wear and specially
rated for the climate. Supercedes all other English Levers ever introduced into this market.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY. "£1
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydnqi.
Perdrlau dc 00.,
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS, WATERPROOF SHEETING, &o.
TIKNIS SHOES and BALES.
AUSTRALIAN RUBBER WORKS, 070 BE STREET, SUBNET.
ES.
r A
11U
stzb
«T?
V 4
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
: j-
r Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
■{ :}-
The Amepioan Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Fvfirv Waltham Watoh is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
nrAvZta poillntr of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co. ~ , , , . , .
nf Wattham Watches are constructed upon the mterchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
nnv Tmrt P nf the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S.A.
any Watgkks can be obtained in Gold and Silver Oases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
° f V Waltham Sonogbaphs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Wat tit am Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “ No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made. _ « _
WaTtham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chbonogbaphs and Minute Reoobdebs. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
mMM
0
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,,
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY. ■
