

Ask your
Grocer for
Pry’s
Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“ An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter.”—Lancet.
s.
srzs
%V* # *
Xlie Best Timekeepers tlle World!
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
L he very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
able to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “Logan’s ” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., 17.5. A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either .English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly-back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
k
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltliam Building’s, Bond. Street, Sydney.
Lever Brotlxers, “Sunllg’lit Soap” Manufacturers,
OF FER thefoil owing PRIZES to the successful competitors who compile the most English Words from the letters contained in the name “ Australasia.” FIRST PRIZE, Five Pounds (£6) : SECOND
1 RIZE, Two Pounds (£2); THIRD PRIZE, One Pound (£1). In addition to the above ELEVEN PRIZES will be given to the successful competitors from the words “Sunlight Soap,” for
Children Under Fourteen Years of age — One 405., two 205., four 10s., four ss. With each list a Sunlight Soap Wrapper must be attached, and with the children’s competition a written statement that
the list is the work of the child, and the name of the school at which the child attends. Lists to be sent in not later th.au August 30th, addressed, LEVER BROTHERS, SYDNEY.
ALLAN
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfittbes, Art & Mediaeval Metal Workers.
KOUKK SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices-r-11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iren or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action V alve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus
k
XJSE
Liebig COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
ķ
EVERY LADY HER OWN DRESSMAKER
BY USING
MADAME WEIGEL’S CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
“WEIGEL’S JOURNAL and CATALOGUE OF FASHIONS,” contain-
ing Illustrations of all the Newest Styles, sent to any part of the country
on receipt of (lOd.) Postage Stamps.
Madaxne WEIIGBL,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Near Tramway).
NEV E 11 T RAVEL WITII 0 U T IT.
WANTED IN EVEKT HOUSE.
m
TUAUY Wm
all HOXIOUS
FLEAS.FUESBEETLESMOSQUITOES
COC KR 0 ACHES,*** S*« AND IS"
AT THPSAME TI ME QU ItE
HARMLE.SSTO BIRDS DOGS.
FOWLS OR OTHER-’-’''
m§
ANJMALS S -
ft
V*'
<i .$>
SOLDI
T.MSj
& UPWARDS!
BYALLCHLMIsTf
AND STOREKEEPERS
WMOUSAIt
[FELTON* GRIM-WAD£ttC?i
I - MELBOURNE — i
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
The Bulletin


m
gps
Hi
8?
1
Jiff
miZm
mm
&
o
O
o
V
SIR ROGER
50
ar
)r
riOi
i?r^j
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into tbe
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
LEA & PERRINS'SAUCE
All 5
jfn consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE!
SA IJCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label <m every bo tils
hears their Signature thus —■
without which no bottle of the. original WOR CESTERSIHIWt'-
SAUCE is genuine.
fAsk for LEA andPER RIPS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
* Stopper . Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ; Crosse and
Liackthfll, Lgndoyi,(p‘e„ 6re. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Taylorßro 5
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
.
MAY B£ OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
WILLIAM --- CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Can’t B Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of ( heap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “Can’t B Beat.”
Something New! Something New !
The il'i S'acKagc. “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
, Smoker's Companion! TBI
containing the following
11b. Williams’, Jib. b'ocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B. Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacco
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 1 H s Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
X Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Yesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long Cut, American .
Eg- Delivered Free at Bedlern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent saved ! Note the address:
MICK SIMMONS,
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarket, Sydney.
Brittenber.g & c o.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyarrt »qnare.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings ,
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG YLANG
OPOPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
Qf all Dealert, and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Tndt Mark —“ White Rose ”on Golden
k. Lyre, with Address in full. A
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
Year ending Year ending Year ending Year ending
Oct., 1885. ' Oct., 1886. Oct., 1887. Oct., 1888.
Subscribed Capital .. £180,425 .. £350,000 .. £431,125 . . £580,000
Paid-up and Aecrlied Capital 61,630 .. 120,000 .. 206,685 .. 251,015
Deposits Received .. 93,581 .. 261,500 .. 391,356 .. 1,123,040
Advances Made .. .. 123,248 . 247,840 .. 307,828 .. 025,826
Total Income .. .. 200,106 .. 451,085 .. 797,990 .. 2.048,051
Deposits received at following Rates ;
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 5 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.
Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH.
To persons who desire to put by
small sums of uncertain amount,
and who wish to secure Interest
upon such sums at a Fair Rate, and for EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five per cent, per Annum
upon their Daily Balance.
Ample Funds for Borrowers. Terms Liberal.
triii
m
yy
.
m
I
i .y.. SSSSIiB
PREMIER
Buildings Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
£25 Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of la. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £26, when that sum is paid over to their holders in
Cash. The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received
in October, 1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had con'
tributed only £ll 55., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
: i-
Hon. John Himmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary.
ĸ
phe FEDERAL COFFEE PALACE,
CORNER OF
King and Collins Streets, Melbourne,
'* Containing Five Hundred and Sixty Rooms, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES OF ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
Special Dining Saloon for Ladies, sumptuously furmshed., with Cuisine and Table Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL on GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING & RECEPTION ROOMS.
Hot, Cold and. Shower Baths.
Night Porter always in Attendance. Telegrams and Letters promptly attended to.
George Cohen - - - Manager


The Bulletin
Tol. 10—No. 401.
SATURDAY, JULY 13, 1889.
Price, 6d.
Tmjfa
Sir Alfred Stephen.


The Bulletin
Tie Rational Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians,”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A IVEEH,
AT Si Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Anmim ... .... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... &
Quarterly ... ... ... •*> ••• 06 6
Cheques, Drafts, old., and all .Dimness Communications
In be addressed to William Macixod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. P.
AllCIIlBAU).
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other A rticles,
Verse, Short fates or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, nr say AOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Mewspdpcr-Clippings. All
Communications Will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Put we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
MOT ICE.
fty sending direct to The BulletiX Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Mote, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can hare Tut; RuLLtrix jmted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tin; P.i lletix is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not.wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, JULY 13, 1889.
Louise A Reverie.
A late cablegram informs us that the Sove-
reign Lady who governs the Empire and
defends its faith for a trifle over £600,000 a
year, has applied to her Parliament for an
additional £lO,OOO per annum to supply her
grandson with pocket-money, and a yearly
subsidy of £3OOO for her granddaughter’s
< lot. The princess, a young woman of two
or three-and-twenty, is about to wed a
person named Duff— none of the home
papers appear to give more than two-thirds
of his name—whose descent from the noble-
man that bisected the bloody Mauretii is
established by a chain of evidence every
link of which will stand any reasonable
strain. As a rule, it is not wise to examine
genealogical tables too closely, especially
when, as in the present case, the first loop
of the vinculum is hitched to a Scottish aris-
tocrat of the 11th century. In all long
genealogical descents occasional breaks may
, be expected -fractures that seldom thoroughly
unite, in spite of the care taken by posterity
to weld the broken parts. It would
be wrong to judge high-born people
either of the present or of the past
by the standard of morality or fair-dealing
which the lower orders of society---such as
tradesmen, artisans, labourers and domestics
—are supposed to reach. Noble lords and
dames are so exposed to temptations un-
known to their inferiors that it would be
absurd to expect them to conform rigidly to
rules intended for the vulgar only. Tims
morality, like law, resembles a not, which,
catches little fishes hut allows big ones to
break through. Eccentricities of lineage arc
avoided by those nations which trace descent
through the female. The wisdom of this
method is too obvious to be more than men-
tioned. The risky nature of the other plan
has found expression in the homely proverb
concerning the wisdom of the child that
knows its own paternal relative. The ease,
too, with which ambitions men can be sup-
plied with pedigrees to their liking may bo
fitly illustrated by the'Victorian Knight who,
fora modest expenditure, was accommodated
with Owen Glendower as an ancestor. Had
the outlay been greater it is pretty certain
that a Plantagenot or a Norman monarch
would have been found in the direct lino. It
is time to return to Alexander.. William
George Duff, sixth Earl of Fife? and his
intended wife, the princess Louise, daughter
of our coming King. Owing to tho care
taken of the family estates during the long
years since Mac. “ put.a head” on Cawdor
by removing Ins proper one ; as well
as to the opportunities afforded by the
Reformation, and the three succeeding cen-
turies for securing Church lands and enclos,
ing commons, the Earldom of Fife is now
worth at least £70,000 a year, exclusive of
what are known in some circles as the
“ pnbkwisits ” arising from holding a stick at
Court ceremonials and . dressing like a
medifeVal riierry-andrew. The present holder
of the title is a Ida. sr of 40. It is to provide
hisjfaoM’rr with pin-money, and her brother
tvitli an establishment, that a royal knock,
Which resounds through the Kmpire, has
once more been heard at the door ot the
British Treasury. Let us see what the
knocker-and her’s have done for the land of
their adopt ion,
* & it
Just 200 years ago the last male Stuart, a
narrow and cruel bigot, made a mistake that
cost him a crown and left a heritage of vaga-
bondage and pauperism to his descendants.
Blinded by the abject doctrine of “passive
obedience ” taught by a generation of greedy
churchmen, he entertained the project of ex-
tending a certain toleration towards his Roman
Catholic subjects and curtailing the savagely-
exercised powers of the establishment. “The
men,” he thought, “ who have thundered
unhesitating submission from a thousand
pulpits since the return of our House, 28
years since, will surely practise what they
preach.” The sequel taught him that the
priest will destroy the whole fabric of society
rather than yield the dearly-loved power (o
persecute. J ames might gibbet and burn and
boot Scotch Covenantors to In's heart s
content, might massacre West Country
peasants hy hundreds and employ the bloody
Jeffries to finish the job by hanging half a
country-side and ■ sending the balance to
savage slavery in the Plantations. But
until he showed a disposition to confine
ecclesiastical privileges within narrower
hounds the Church of England made no
sign. He forgot that the man who preaches
unquestioning obedience to the Divine will
when his nci hbour’s house is on lire fails to
see the virtue of patience when the blaze
reaches his own. It was the folly of James
that paved the way for the present reigning
House 26 years after his fall. /ml. surely,
since the Prophet Samuel warned the Jews
against choosing a king to reign over them,
no El Dorado has ever been discovered by
mankind that will compare with the one on
which the Guelph family pegged out its
claim nearly two centuries ago. It was
on rising from a perusal of the lives of the
Georges and the grotesque William that
the American editor wrote in the bitterness
of his soul : “ Britons never shall bo slaves 1
D n them, they’ve never been anything
else.”
C? ?? 3
What has this Sorcign family done that
during the long period of 176 years its nu n -
hors and dependents have had English go d
in billions and English lives in millions to
pour out like water I Have its scions been
distinguished by any of the characterist.es
that with meaner mortals command respect !
Have they been talented, sober, honourable,
liberal or humane—good fathers, mothers,
sons, daughters, husbands or wives? Such
questions provoke a smile. Their talents
were those of the tramp and the lady's-maid,
while, of the other attributes mentioned, the
less said the better. The first George coun-
selled those who followed his fortunes to
England to lay their hands on everything
within reach, as there was no knowing when
they would be served with a writ of eject-
ment Says Thackeray : “The German
women plundered, the German secretaries
plundered, the German cooks and attendant;',
plundered ; even Mu.stvpiia and Mahomet,
the German negroes, had a share of the
bobty.” “A flight of hungry Hanoverians,”
adds Lord Mahon, “like so many famished
vultures, fell with keen eyes and bended
talons on the fruitful soil of England.” In
the meantime the earliest George put his
wife in prison, having first taken care to
have her lover, Count Konigsmark, mur-
dered. He secured valuable properties by
burning the wills bequeathing them to
other persons. To drive away dull care
during the incarceration of his wife 1m
kept a seraglio in which were instal ed
a bevy of German beauties, one of
whom was knoAvn as the “Giraffe by irre-
verent Cockneys, while another passed
through this vale of tears under the pot
name of the “ Elephant.” It was longitu-
dinal development that suggested the former
sobriquet, and latitudinal the latter. As
Chesterfield said when his sovereign was
no more : “No woman came amiss to him if
she were only very willing and very fat.”
For to years this estimable monarch de-
fended with such success the faith of which
he did not believe a rvord, that every bishop
in the kingdom declared heaven to be the
only haven for so wise, so prudent, and so
kind a master.
* * *
The tale of the four Georges and of their
immediate successor has been told too often
and too well to be more than glanced at
here. Indeed, no reference would have been
made to such a humiliating chapter in the
history of a great nation but for the neces-
sity, of saying something concerning the pro-
genitors of the young people Avho, bred to
uselessness, now demand support from a
society to whose welfare they contribute
nothing-a society which, but for the mar-
vellous fhmkoyism of its members, might
be trusted to treat such claims Avitb do-
ri-iou. It might be told how George 11.,
a creature too mean oven for ridicule, spent
eighty millions of British money to subsidise
continental harpies and defend Hanover ;
how, Avhcn the third of the name occupied
the throne, the Britons who ivould never
submit to be slaves spent, at the bidding of
a madman. £‘140,000,000 to loivor the flag of
one nation and £1,000,000,000 to haul down
that of another ; how the first gentleman in
Europe had the education of a scullion, the
manners of a dancing-master, and the morals
of a trull, and how the sailor-king was
usually mistaken for a boatswain when he
wasn’t taken for a circus-down. But, as the
history of those droll people is within the
reach of all, enough has been said to invite
attention to the singular circumstance of a
powerful State's having searched among
foreigners for a family sufficiently stupid and
depraved to rule when so many septs of the
kind could he found at home. 'Truly, it is
not without justice that society has been
compared to a Hock of pigeons in which, out
of a hundred birds, ninety-eight are strong,
hearty and active, while two are weak and
useless. The strong gather grain in quantities
for tho weak, thus prolonging valueless lives.
To complete the analogy it is but necessary
to mention the fact that if one of the in-
dustrious gatherers gets sick a d attempts to
take a few grains from the store he helped
to fill, the others fall on him and pluck him
to pieces.
**
In order to live at all. one has either to
work, to steal, or to beg. Some persons, it
is true, trust to all three in order to make
cuds meet, while others avoid the first and
depend chiefly on the remainder. It would
be cruelly unjust to say that the talented
family in possession of the British Crown
has ever practised the foremost of the three
methods. The second plan, too, has of late
fallen somewhat into disuse, so that the
Sovereign and her clientele are, obliged by
necessity to depend principally on the third.
It has been estimated that the present
ruler and her descendants have cost con-
siderably over £20,000,000. This estimate,
although high, is probably within the mark
as it is next to impossible to obtain a
true balance-sheet owing to the innumerable
perquisites of royalty. It was only by per-
sistent efforts that Sir Charles Dilke and
Mr. Bradlaugh established the fact that
£BO3 a year was paid as a perpetual pension
in lien of “ pruago and batlerage on wines
in Duchy ot Lancaster,” while the Queen’s
“ clockmakcr ” and the Buckingham Palace
*'• ratcatcher ” were generously supplied with
milk by that phenomenally patient cow, the
British public A recent writer observes :
‘ ‘ The sin of bringing into the world chil-
dren whom they cannot or will not support
h one frequently hurled at working men and
women. . , , But what does this I’oyal
person do with impunity ? She charges the
nation some £170,000 per annum for the
maintenance of her able-bodied sons, daugh-
ters, and relatives.” Nor is this all. The
army is commanded by a cousin who, had lie
enlisted, might perhaps have become bom-
bardier or even full corporal, but could
scarcely qualify for the post of sergeant;
while one of the bravest fleets that sails the
seas is led by a middle-aged prince, who
receives about £30,000 a year for fiddling
badly in the Mediterranean,
# # #
This recent attempt, however, to afford a
grateful country the privilege of supporting
the Monarch’s grand-children appears to
have at length stirred even the sluggish
blood of a Tory House of Commons. The
young lady’s parents draw from various
sources about £120,000 a year ; her grand-
mother is by far tile richest woman in
Europe—probably in the world—while
her sweetheart has an income which, if
capitalised, would build a powerful squadron.
Yet, with all these reservoirs of riches which,
it is almost certain, need but tapping in order
to yield streams of strength, even as water
spurted from the rock at the first application
of Moses’ rod, the poor girl lias to apply to
public charity for help to procure a trous-
seau and for some slight guarantee that any
little co 'tingencies arising from the match
will be preserved from mendicancy till suffi-
ciently old to beg on their own account. In
the “ stand and deliver” line the G uelphs
have done brave things in their day. But
the present attempt, so far as coolness (we
almost wrote cheek) is concerned, stands a
head and shoulders above all its predecessors.
]f successful, as it probably will be, foreign
royal Houses will indulge in vain regrets
that their progenitors were not invited to
uphold religion and liberty in England at
the beginning of the 18th century. It is
not pleasant to think of your monarchical
cousins cropping suck succulent herbage in
one paddock, while you are obtaining a
scanty subsistence by browsing on the well-
cropped tufts in the next. Of a verity
England contains many people, “ mostly
fools.”
The Expense of National Freedom.
Whenever a new political force arises and
threatens to remodel or overthrow any existing
institution or faith, it is the fashion of the ad-
herents of the old order of things, first to deny
that the new factor exists, and, when this means
of suppression fails, to misrepresent the movement,
and misquote its aims. The history of the growth
of the Protection j arty was met by these successive
methods of opposition, and precisely similar in-
cidents have befallen the growth of Australian
National sentiment. “Young Australia” is too
noi«y and vigorous now to lie denied recog-
nition, so the tactics of misrepresentation
not necessarily wilful - have to be adopted.
The "party are charged with meanness. It
is said that .dread of expense is the ore
from which their alleged patriotism is extracted,
and the movement is described as hinging
on a paltry question of £ s. d. The utter absur-
dity of such a contention is one of its most re-
markable features. For if independence were
attained the cost of self-defence and national
autonomy would certainly be in excess of what we
now pay and would very probably be greater than
our necessary tribute as a unit of a federated
empire. If “Young Australia” is mean and
avaricious tire present state of affairs should be
maintained in statu quo, for we now pay far less
than we should have to subscribe under either
form of confederation. The “expense” popu-
larly inveighed against as an objection to
our joining in an Imperial Confederation is
less concerned with the amount than with the
reason for the. expenditure, Patrick Henry was
not sordid in his political soul when he made the
famous declaration of “ millions for defence but
not one penny for tribute,” and his attitude i \ that
of the National party in Australia to-day. No
necessary expense for the protection of our rights
and liberties could ever be grudged, and is .not now
feared. But Australians would grudge every
copper spent in consequence of a, war begun with-
out their concurrence against a foe with whom
they had no quarrel, and for an object which they
valued not. That is the real meaning of the pro-
test against expense. Why should Australian lives
and treasure be wasted in the profitless operation
of preventing Russians from extinguishing the
odorous Turk? Or, worse still, why should we
contribute to the oppression of people struggling
to obtain their rights or their independence? As
a province of a federated empire, Australia
might actually he made to contribute a part
of the cost of coercion in Scotland and
Ireland and Egypt, and who can charge us with
meanness in begrudging such an item of expense ?
An independent Australia could always estimate
and limit its liabilities and responsibilities : an
Australian province would have to accept what-
ever dangers and disasters Imperial arrogance,
folly, or avarice might incur on our behalf
although without our consent and perhaps in suite-
of our protests.
* C *
The sheer audacity of the misrepresentation is.
most clearly seen when the very naturalness off
the national sentiment is recognised. Here-
upon adjoining continents and islands there have-
been settled for nearly a century communities
having separate local interests but having also
great and paramount interests in common. Each
colony can claim the same descent; the institu-
tions of each are in tl e main identical, and differ
in important particulars from those of other parts
o! the world. Tho people of each community are
bound together by the ties of business, friendship,
and kinship; border lines exist on the map but these
are not capable of permanently cleaving the broader
sentiments_ of the Australasian population. And,
the conditions of life throughout these colonies,
are alike in each, and’widely different to anything;
the Old World can show. Wo share equal and)
identical political dangers in each of the conY
munities, and, broadly speaking, we have identical
political aims. Out of these similarities and con-
trasts it would be strange indeed if a sentiment of
patriotism did not grow; a patriotism which
should seek a joint control by the colonies of their
common interests. To question the existence of
such a spirit is to assert that Australians are
utterly blind to their highest national good and
wanting in what throughout the course of all
history has been an instinct founded on self-,
preservation, and arising as of necessity out of ■
the circumstances and dangers comprising and in,*
volving the very life of the community.
“Billy Brooks.”
There is in Brisbane a politician named S; W:
Brooks who, according to tho curious creatures lu
calls his “friends,” is a man of culture, and one-
who has the courage of his convictions. Hi*
culture is chiefly manifested in vapid review s of
antediluvian books which have in the process of
ages filtered down to the library of the locilV
School of Arts. As for his convictions, he was
once a Wesleyan parson by trade j but he has long-
given up tub-thumping in favour of stumping!!
For the rest, he has a gas-meter heart and corru-
gated-iron bowels of political compassion., HF
political convictions (except when they me as
ghost-like as his religious opinions) are W a hard
Grad grind nature.
# * *
To his sorrow, Mr. S, W, Brooks does not
often get a chance of relieving himself of the
heavy burden of steely rubbish out of which he.
proposes to model a new Utopia—an Utopia op
machine-like working people, of grinding labour
and of recreation made festive by the enlfured;
babble of the ever-flowing Brooks. But when,
such an opportunity presents itself S, W, B. i\
all there. Whenever, likewise, them is a chance,
of “coming the Duncan Gillies racket,” and)
howling the “National Anthem ” without regal'd)
for time or tune into disloyal ears, he favours the.
company in his choicest style, for he himself has
said it - he is an Englishman, and Britons never,
never will be slaves. Consequently, it was by no
means a matter of wonder to the average dancing-
man when Brooks flowed in a mighty stream of
turgid rhetoric at the Loyal and Orange meeting
held in Brisbane to sit on Dillon and assure the
anxious Queen that her faithful people in that part
of the world were still Loyal and Orange.
* # «
Nor did it come as a surprise to finclS.W.B.
breaking out in pamphlet form on this same sub-
ject. It is true that the great Reformer has br-cji
too modest to put his name to the production, hut
even a man with his eye at half-cock can detect ffee-
fine Roman hand of the Master in this lemaFkable.
publication. For instance, who else'in tho whole,
of Queensland could be found who knew so. much,
of Spinoza as to cull this modest nosegay-of worth,
which ho has given to the world, to paste it op,
the title-page of an ami-Home Rule pamphlet r;
l-’or instance, supposing a man knows that a law l-. ;
repugnant to sound reason, and should, therefore, hr.
repealed, if he submits his opinion to the Judgment of the •
authorities (who alone have the right ot making andj
i epealing laws), and meanwhile acts in no wise eon Iran
to that law, he has deserved well of the State, and has,,
behaved as a good citizen should; but it he accuses the
authorities of injustice, and stirs up the people against
them, or, if he seditiously strives to abrogate the law
without their consent, lie is r, mere agitator and rebel.
Spinoza.
That settles it, of course. Every agitator am s
rebel from the first Brutus down should blush fov
shame now. The sublime vagueness of the refer--
cnee to “ the authorities who alone have the right
of making and repealing, laws ” is too crushing.
And then look at the logical application of the
whole thing to the Irish question. The Irish
people —the solid, living, breathing masses of Irish-
men for generations have been protesting against,
plotting against, striving and struggling against.
English misrule, and, therefore, it eminently ap-
plies to their ease to suggest that they ' have
been “stirred” by a few men in the 'present
generation. This admirable quotation is culture,
<1 h) Brooks.
* # #
But, later on, Brooks spiuozes thus on his own
account
Political differences in Australia do not usually engender
lasting bitterness. We differ and yet remain friends,
each ■ respecting the conviction of Ids opponent. Old-
world feuds and racial animosities have hitherto had no,
place among us. We may have watched distant strifes


The Maoris, who believe in transmigration
of souls, say that the lawyers turn into pelicans.
An American police court reporter had
what is technically called a “scoop” on another
veracious historian. He refused to divulge, and,
being the weaker, his rival handcuffed him to a
chair, only unloosing him after his paper [went to
press.
Poor old Abo us wants a brief notice of
Khartoum Gordon’s career inserted in the Vic-
torian school-books—probably to warn young
Victorians to keep away from the Soudan—but
Joe Symes says that Haddon’s paper feels anxious
to see the young Australians developing into
pirates, bushrangers, highwaymen ami general
cut-throats —all Christians, of course, like Gordon.
The Sydney correspondent of Melbourne
Herald wired, or was alleged to have wired, last
week that Sir Henry Parkes, K.C.M.G., was
about to retire into private life for the purpose
of writing two books, one dealing with prominent
men, and the other with the history of N.S.AV.
Himself is the only prominent man with whom
Parkes will deal to any large extent, and wo hope-
he won’t lose anything by tire transaction The
Illustrated History of Botany Bay—advertised on
page 14 of this issue—has already been published
by the Bulletin at a modest shilling; so the old
man need’nt worry about endeavouring to compete
with that unprecedented library success.
with attention, possibly with deep interest, and probably
with divided sympathies, but we have been content to re-
main non-combatants, and to exclude the subject of con-
tention from disturbing our own social relations.
What? Has there been no Soudan Contingent?
No chortling in the Press and on the platform
over the PIGOTT forgeries before they were ex-
posed ? The way in which the Australian press
backed up the ex-parte case of the London Times
over that business was a disgrace to journalism,
and was very far indeed from ‘'excluding the
subject of contention from disturbing our own
social relations ” (that is, if this flower of culture
&Ut BROOKS has any particular meaning). But
the entire pamphlet is a poor, false, malignant
thing, and beyond giving us an extended report
(denied us by the papers) of the Orange meeting
at which the parsons, on active service, like the«
Carsons, Crawfords, Cairnses, &.c., and those
with brevet-rank, like the Brentxalls and
Brookses, had it all their own way, its publica-
tion was quite unnecessary. ft preserves
for us, however, a priceless parsonical gem
in one of the concluding sentences of Mr. S. W.
Brooks’ speech at the meeting. For the parson’s
cock-sure familiarity with the views of the Al-
mighty this cannot be wiped out: —“Leaving
much unsaid,” said Brooks, amid polite protests,
“and wishing that what 1 have said had been
better said, 1 can conclude with the expression of
the wish or prayer so often uttered, ‘ God save
Ireland’ —not from English misrule —I speak
without the slightest irreverence not from
English misrule, for there is not enough of that left
to make it worth the Almighty's while to trouble
Himself about it.” For this sparkling drop from
the wells (or Brooks) of “ English undefiled ” let
us be duly thankful, nor deem the publication of
the pamphlet an unmixed evil.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Land Sale Facts.
In Melbourne Supreme Court, the other day, Mr.
.Justice Hodges delivered a judgment of awful
.significance to those land syndicate promoters who
made such rapid fortunes on paper when the
merry boom was booming through the inflated
regions south of the Murray. The case dealt
with by Mr. Hodges was one in which certain
subsidiary syndicators sought to cancel their con-
tract with the primary land-sharks, on the ground
(a good term in this connection) that they' were
inveigled into the speculation by misrepresenta-
tions in the original plan and prospectus. Said
misrepresentations were proved, and the Judge, in
deciding for the plaintiffs, dropped the following
pearls of wisdom : —“Persons might put into a
prospectus their bright dreams (dazzling notions,
The Rcxxettn would suggest) as to the future, and
their convictions as to what wonld come to pass,
and people taking shares on representations of
that kind could not be allowed to complain (can’t
stop ’em from complaining, jedge !) because those
dreams or convictions never became realities. But
where a prospectus undertook to state facts, and
did state facts, (hen those facts must be truthfully
stated.” This was a very harrowing deliverance,
take it altogether. Lots of syndicates, hitherto
sailing on calm, untroubled waters are likely to
strike the awful rock of Tacts and sink with all
hands. Private, retail purchasers—the common,
or Land Sale, variety of buyers--will be looking
to see whether the advertisements and auction
speeches, by which they were persuaded to buy
desert soil at many pounds per foot, stated facts
truthfully. Mr. Justice Hodges has left
it open to the outside public to stop meet-
ing their bills, given in exchange for land-sale
allotments, because trains didn’t run to the new
township as promised, or because suppositious
plans for imaginary hotels were never drawn up in
accordance with stated Facts. Nay, more, the
victimised outsiders can go for a recovery of the
amount of the bills already duly met if they can
prove their purchases to have been made on the
strength of Facts which were not facts. Verily,
the unsubstantial shadows cast by bygone adver-
tisements are darkening the syndicate present,
and threatening the future with Cimmerian gloom.
The great army of auctioneers and estate agents
drew up beautiful prospectuses while they were
dreaming dreams, and now, in the cold, grey dawn
of their awakening, the finger of Fate points to
certain creations of their florid fancy, while a still,
small voice asks : “ Were those things facts, facts,
Facts ?”
4. —_—
Wise, the Talebearer.
At last general election in New South Wales Mr.
B. H. Wise was rejected with much contumely
and little ceremony by South Sydney. Then he
went to West Macquarie and was again beaten
under circumstances which added an unusual
degree of humiliation to the defeat. Then he sat
down and wrote to Macmillan's Magazine about
‘ Australian Politics.” He was “real mad” at the
way he had been licked, and not being anxious to
do any more fighting here he determined to tell
his Imperial mamma, the British public, how
badly the naughty boys of Young Australia had
treated him. He had to excuse his collapse some-
how, and this way of telling tales out of the poli-
tical school seemed as good a way as any. And,
like most tale-bearers, he, if the cable is to be
trusted, permits his complaint to slop over both
sides of the shallow bowl of fact. His charge that
the disorderly members are generally Irish members
of Irish constituencies, is very largely tinged with
romance, as a glance at the records of parliamen-
tary pugilism will show. Mr. Wise himself was
certainly disorderly when, on the floor of the
House, he demanded an opportunity of horse-
whipping a disorderly and insulting member, old
enough to be his father, 1 Iaynks and Fl,ETCHER,
Matheson and M'Elhone, Lynr and Clark,
Buchanan and Wisdom all have tried the ordeal
ot combat, but only two of these men were Irish,
and not one of them represented what could be
called an “Irish constituency.” And in thus
slating the Irish, Mr. Wise seems to forget that
the exertions of Irish Roman Catholics were
responsible for his narrow win at South Sydney in
•June, ’87, Dan, O’Connor being then one of his
hardest workers. But, ungrateful to his sup-
porters, Mr. Wise cannot be charged with
a like offence against his colleagues. In
asserting* that members are politically pure,
h, i , more than merciful to some who have
had the supreme honor of being his colleagues in
office. | ngratitude of a kind- or is it envy — shows
out ni the cabled statement that the Irish are
pdlet-hunters. For what young man in N.S. Wales
y en more diligently fed with Crown briefs than
Mr. Wise? And, without going into details, we
may suggest that some of his relatives have been
the occupants of very nice fat billets with nice
salaries and pensions attached. Of course they
mdn t hunt for these billets, bur they got there
just the same Of course, Mr. Wise has a good
word for Sir Henry Parkes, his political inventor;
Rhd on the principle that a eat may look at a king
- praises the Hon. E. Barton, but the cable
makes no mention of his estimation of th ?
statesman in Australia, Sir Thomas MTlwkaith.
Perhaps the article itself will be a little less
malevolent than the various cabled messages
would indicate, but, on the other hand, most likely
it won't, and in any case it will go a long way to
destroy whatever political reputation the ex
Attorney General (by the grace of Parkes and the
force of accidents) still retains. It is mean enough
to revenge oneself on a community by telling true
tales of their discredit to other people ; but if the
tales are not strictly accurate, a coat of political
tar and feathers would be a mild and merciful
penalty for the transgression.
The Australian Spirit.
The Australian spirit is hardly yet a consuming
tire. It is disheartening sometimes to note the
indolence and apathy of the young race to whom
the future of this great continent will be entrusted.
Queensland only of the countries of the Australa-
sian Group has spoken out in a voice in which has
been heard the ring of the true note of National-
ism. In New South ViTales dense stolidness,
dismaying dullness and indolence seem to possess
theorising generation. They wake up, now and
again, to snort vehemently when threatened with
an importation of Chinese cheap labour, and then,
like a disturbed sleeper, they turn on the other-
side and nestle down to a slumberous snore. In
Victoria the youth are too much taken up with
amusements----the young men with football and the
girls with social frivolities—-to worry much about
the future of their country. In South Australia
loyalty is a religion ; in Tasmania it is a super-
stition. New Zealand is so actively engaged in
considering the problem of national bankruptcy
that national independence hardly impinges upon
its mental horizon. In Queensland alone is the
sentiment of Nationalism aggressive. Why?
Because they have been terrified with the ap-
proach of national death. Touch a man’s pocket
or Iris _ stomach and he immediately evolves
patriotism. The political aspect of the pouch is
interesting. We are all marsupials after every-
thing is said. The Kanaka threatened to
take the bread out of the mouth of the white
labour, and white labour kicked. In the gone
days the plantations of the North were worked by
the white man, but when the planters found that
Kanaka labour was cheaper, and hence a source
of greater profit to themselves, white labour was
displaced in favour of coloured. Now, the planters
pretend that the fields cannot be worked by white
men. Very true! They can not—at the present,
rate of wages. The Kanaka is a benefactor in
disguise. He brought with him the germ of dis-
content, hence of nationalism. Since his coming
it has grown into a sturdy tree which is spreading
its roots far and wide. Queensland only of all
the Australian rejected the Naval Tribute Bill.
Queensland only of all the Australias rejected the
Governor chosen for her by the Colonial Office.
Queensland only of all the Australian returned to
power a Government which appealed to the elec-
torates on the bold platform of Nationalism. Jf
New South Wales were in like manner threatened
by the usurpation of its larder by an inferior and
foreign race, Nationalism would spread like wild-
fire until the whole country bristled with it.
Victoria only wants menacing in a like fashion to
develope a like spirit. South Australia and Tas-
mania have fallen asleep and want a great labour,
or a great food problem to awaken them. Life is
after all but one long incessant struggle, and
every kind of greatness is only achieved by over-
coming great obstacles. Australia is getting into
a rut and wants stirring up. If the mighty Child
of the Sun who rules the celestial destinies of
China were to-morrow to attempt a landing of
some three or four millions of his people upon our
coast, how we should gird up our loins and assert
our nationality ! That would galvanise us into
action. In default of danger we sleep, and per-
mit the men we send to Parliament to look after
our interests to go to sleep too, so that there is in
all the land no sound of energy or activity ;
nothing but the mighty drone of one rhythmic
snore It is about time this sort of thing were
ended ! The democracy of Australia are being
hoodwinked and deluded by drivellers only a shade’
less sleepy than they. The Premier of one “colony ”
is permitted to stigmatise even the mention of
Home Rule as an insult to the House in which lie
holds his sway. The people of another country
are threatened with the colourless husband of a
Royal Princess as Governor, and they make no
sign of disapproval. And so on, nearly all along
the line.
—♦ .
An Australian Mutiny Act.
Sir Henry Parkes, in the New South Wales
Parliament replied the other night to a question
asked by Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, to the effect
that _ the state of the law with regard to the
Mutiny Act was that, by colonial enactment,
the Imperial Army Act, which was renewed from
year to year, was adopted by the State of New
South Wales, so that the Imperial enactment was
in force, so far as the military forces of that country
were concerned! This is the return we got fer-
tile pearly drops we have shed over the tomb of
Wentworth —the man who is credited with gain-
ing for New South Wales its Constitution Act-
in the pretty little chapel-vault at Vauoluse.
Pause a moment, Young Australia, and consider
what this means ! The little army of Parkes’
empire is composed entirely of Australians by
birth or adoption, the cost of its maintenance is
placed upon the country’s estimates for the current
year and paid out of the revenue of the country.
Now, wait a minute! During the year 1888"a
labour crisis might have arisen in England, the
military called out to fire on the “ mob ” —so-called
by the “nob” —and the penalty of refusal might
have been, according to the Mutiny Act
passed by a Tory Government for that year,
and in view of possible or probable up-
rising on the part of the proletariat, death
at sight without the benefit of even trial by
drum head court-martial. During that year of
1888, the Newcastle miners came into collision
with Capital, and the military and police were
called out to over-awe them. Suppose that a con-
flict between the workmen and tbe soldiers had
been averted by the refusal of the latter to fire
upon their fellow-countrymen, the conditions of
the Imperial Mutiny Act (whatever they may
have been) would have then applied, and the sense
of justice and fair-play which seems to be in the
Australian nature the predominant instinct would
have been insulted and outraged, and our boasted
democracy reduced to the level of a drivelling
farce. In fact, the very existence of an army,
however small, directed and administered by a
power outside the people, whose servant and
payee it is, is an anomaly and a derision, and
absolutely incongruous with any idea of self-
government, If we must have soldiers—and in
view of a possible Chinese invasion in the adjacent
future it would certainly be advisable to train
Young Australia to arms —let ns have soldiers as
far away from the Imperial model as possible.
If we must train our youth to service in the tented
field, let ns train them as the servants, the de-
fenders of their country, the protectors of the
democratic principle, the guardians of the pnblh
. weal, whoso only watchword would be “ Australia
for the Australians.” Let each of the Australias
when it mobilises its little army pass a stringent Act
of Parliament to the effect that the Australian forces
shall never be employed against Australian in-
terests, that no plutocratic Government, and no
Government in the pay or in the debt of pluto-
cracy, shall ever be empowered to ■ use Australian
courage to, protect the interests of selfish Capital
against Labour demanding only justice; that it
should never be used as the tool or the catspaw of
calculating greed. The only raison d'etre of the
Australian soldier is the protection of his country
against a foreign invader. The police force and
tlic law-abiding spirit of the citizens are sufficient
for the purposes of keeping internal order. If they
are not, the very fact of their inadequacy is an abso-
lute proof that the majority of the people desire
a change of the law, and under all logically
carried-out questions of representative Govern-
ments the first expression of the will of,,the
majority is the initial stage in the crystalli-
sation of that will in an A*t of Parliament. All
our governmental machinery is constructed on
the foreign basis, viz., that the people are to he
kept down and chev vied into quietude. Nobody
witnessing the spectacle of a body of mounted
police would imagine, when these festive guardians
of law and order are preparing the way fur Gover-
nor Carington at a monument-unveiling or what-
not, that they were exercising their brief authority
in “barracking” their masters, the people
who paid their wages. The impression
created by their snobbish' zeal would be rather
that they were ‘the private body-guard of
his lordship, paid out of his lordship’s private
purse. During the Newcastle riots Premier
Pakkes ordered out Nordenfeldt guns maimed by
men who were commanded to be prepared to
shoot down the miners who assisted in support-
ing them—the military—in Semi-idleness. No !If
we must have any army, let us make of it
an army of citizens whose swords shall have
but leaden points for their countrymen. The
foolery and flummery of Imperialism belongs to
the barbarism of the old world, and their adoption
by the people of Australia can only be considered
in the light of an insult to our common democracy.
>♦
The reading-books used in the State schools of
New South Wales and Victoria are, it is said,
about to be Australianised. The Ministers who
preside over Education in both colonies have ex-
pressed a determination to put into the hands of
children books that will tell them more about
their own country than the existing ones do. The
public will second the determination with alacrity.
Taere is a large quantity of good topical matter
already in print, and a selection suited to Aus-
tralian wants might, with very little trouble, be
male. Put, although the public second the
Ministers, the, way is not wholly cleared. In the
higher branches of the Education service there are
many stiff Conservative traditions. The literature
on which Inspectors and Under-,Secretaries grew
up is, to several of these officers, the only healthy
food for youngsters. A glance through the books
in use proves this. The reform in favour of Aus-
tralian letters will have, therefore, to be carried on
over the heads of these officers. There must also
be an effort made to get away from an exclusive
worship of the dead. The State schools should
show something of the work of the living. In
the schools of Pagan Rome most of the exercises in
reading were from the works of contemporary
writers. Horace and Virgil were read in the
schools in their own time. When a few verses of
Tennyson were first introduced into school books
in England it was felt by many that a revolution
had taken place. The crusted rule was that reading
matter should not be selected from any writer less
dead than Oliver Goldsmith or Addison. 'That
traditional homage to the dead, or traditional dis-
respect to the living, should cease. The one test
should be, after the Australian character of the
matter has been admitted, its merit. That the
author lives should be no demerit. There is. we
repeat, a large amount of matter within reach of
the Ministers, but there is also plenty of room to
bungle what may be made a performance of true
national value.
l ♦
It is enough to make one's blood boil to see how
the poor fruit-hawkers are being persecuted in
Melbourne. We have pointed out what abomin
able genuine nuisances are allowed to flemish,
while a pretence is made that a poor man with a
fruit-barrow obstructs the thoroughfare. Th
autocrat Panton, at the District Court, the friend
of Dkeuhurst and Dudley, is fining poor, strug-
gling men £2 apiece for trying to make an honest
living in the streets of Melbourne. What’s the
milk in the cocoauut ? This : The shopkeepers,
who want to keep up their rapacious prices which
prevent the poor man from getting fruit at all.
The street-hawker sells better fruit for half the
money ! That is the whole explanation of how
the City Council and Bench have been got at.
It is a crying shame. If anything can make us
proud of wielding the power of a newspaper, it is
to speak up for the poor man, in an infamous case
of persecution like this. Why do the people
stand it? There have been some feeble squeaking
protests from a section of the Press, while the
rest has shown how thoroughly it is nobbled and
nozzled. We mean to hang on to this thing-—keep
worrying at it. Poor honest men are sent to
prison because they are unable to pay these
villainous fines ! What are We coming to in Aus-
tralia? Just to show what the Rich can do, we
will say that, at anew building in Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne, there is all day kept going a crane,
which keeps swinging a truckful of earth, at the
end of a rope, over the heads of people in the
most crowded street. No harm in this, but it is a
crime for the poor man to sell the poor man an
apple.
“ Garryowkn,” in his “Early Melbourne” book,
points out that .Judge Thkrry is the only Roman
Catholic who ever sat on the Victorian Bench.
This is a strange thing, more especially as there
has been nothing apparently to prevent Catholic
aspirations that way. We take it as a mere acci-
dent. Men like Dick Ireland and O’Log hlen
ought to have reached the Bench. Why they
didn't is best known to themselves. There is Dr.
M adden, who certainly had a preferent claim to
Hodges. Like Pcrv'es, Madden, no doubt, has
freely pushed aside judgeships: Pcrves, though,
lacks solid legal learning. He has often admitted
it himself. Yet, surely he is far better qualified
than Brewer Kereerd, who gets on well enough.
Ring rose Wise has been wri ting a lot of stupidity
in Macmillan’s Magazine about the Irish in
Australia. The best answer is Hogan's book on
that subject. Anthony Trollope wrote a silly,
ignorant libel about the existence of an Irish
quarter in Melbourne. Where is it? asks “Jimmy”
Hogan. Then he goes on to show how all the
Victorian Speakers, up to M. H. Davies, have
been Irishmen, viz., Morphy, M ‘Mahon, Duffy,
La lob. The names of Higinbotham, O’Shanassy
and a shoal of other Irishmen are instanced by
Hogan, to show where the Irish quarter is. And
he himself is not half a bad example, meandering
around the British “ Mushayiv" ” with his inevi-
table book Under his arm.
Ihe Imperial Federationist, Parkin, m a paper
read before the Economic Association, found a
new and, at the same time, utterly unconvincing'
reason for the “drawing closer of. the silken
bonds. - ’ He imagined that it was necessary for
the appreciation of-great men and their noble
deeds that the doer and the appreciative observer
•should belong to the . same branch of the human
race. A more paltry, commonplace, and utterly
parochial idea never came under our notice. Tin-
man who cannot appreciate greatness and true
nobility, no matter who its' exponent, be he
Kamick or Cliinkee, is a poor, bloodless petrifac-
tion, .1 he brotherhood that big-souled men recog-
nise is not that of the British-speaking or any
other race, but “the brotherhood of man.” The
federation they are Struggling for is not an
offensive or defensive federation, which tuts one
people against another, but the federation of man-
kind without exceptions of any kind. The path to
this does not lead through alliances between folks
whose commercial interests are in many ways
antagonistic, and whose forms of government are
really at variance, but through the welding to-
gether of weak and struggling States into mightv
Republics, whose very power, wielded by the
people, is a guarantee of peace, and with whose
universal growt h War, the game of kings, tyrants,
aud thieves, is destined to vanish into the limbo of
forgetfulness with many of the barbarisms that
are, to a great extent, its corollaries.
A conck.a i.ki i antipathy to the United States
peeps through Wolselev’s writings, but every
Australian militia and volunteer officer ought to
read the series of papers lie has begun in the
North American Review on the American Civil
War, because the country is so similar to Aus-
tralia. He deals with the battle of Shiloh or
Pittsburg landing, conclusively showing how
Grant was surprised by Sydney Johnston and
Beauregard as Wellington and Blucher were
surprised by Napoleon at Quatre Bras and Lignv,
Our grudge against Wolseley is his absurd exal-
tation of Lee, and England’s only General appears
tetconsider that the United States ought now to
be split up into three powers like France, Ger-
many, and Russia armed to the teeth and giving
the soldier lots of work. But there’s nothing like
leather ! Wolseley is writing a “ Life of Marl-
borough.” He is undeniably a good writer, but
there are frightful spots, mistakes, in his “ Sol-
dier’s Pocket Book. ” We fancy the explanation
is its being stereotyped. Archibald Forres and
Colonel Maurice have thrust their lances into
Woi.se ley's literary armour-joints. One of his
bits of nonsense is maintaining that a great
General must always go through the mill of mili-
tary education. To be sure he lias plenty of
examples - Napoleon, Wellington, Aloi.Vkk,
&c., but ho ignores Cromwell, Clive, and other
etceteras. Though Grant was a captain in Un-
American war lie had no knowledge of military
text-books. The fact is, Generals, like racehorses,
run in all shapes.
+,
As the Marquis of Lome considers he could not
live on £lO,-000 a year in Victoria we expect to see
the grovelling Gillies —who would be two Gillies.
rolled into one in the presence of the son of the
M'Cullum Mohr, god of scratching-posts- at
once bring the local gubernatorial salary back to
the figure which obtained in the days of Horn am
and Bark ly-*— £ls.ooo. According to the cableman,
Princess Louise says she doesn’t want to be
“ exiled" to Australia. They all call it “exile”
at Government ’Ouse when the front-door is shut
and the sandbags laid down to keep the wind out.
Even the flunkey with the fat calves probably says
as he ’ugs the lady’s maid, “Nymn, nynm, you
poor little exile ! Ho for a hour of dear hold
llingland ! ” ’Owsomever, The Bulletin be-
lieves that David >Syme will, for business purposes,
be compelled to frown against his will on this
monstrous £SOOO a-year job. Lome was a dismal
failure in Canada, and the Princess Louise is not
the sort of woman to make herself popular any-
where—even-in Heaven. May Divine Providence
protect Australia against the importation of a
Royal woman to encourage the crawlsomeness of
the wealthy lower orders.
♦
When Oijida leaves off writing about pome-
granate-blossoms, drawing-room furniture, tawny-
moustached men of magnificent proportions,
Parisian salons, gondolas,, gilded immorality, and
the Danubian district—when she quits these con-
genial subjects and gets on to politics Ouida is as
foolish as a barn-door fowl. Some of her latest
thoughts—inscribed, probably, with violet ink on
delicately perfumed paper,, go along in this
fashion—“ A democracy cannot understand honor:
how should it ? The Caucus is chiefly made up of
men who sand their sugar, put alum in their bread,
forge bayonets and girders which bend like willow
wands, send bad calico to India, and insure
vessels at Lloyd’s which they know will go to the
bottom before they have been ten days at sea."
Her lofty mixing up of grocers and ship owners
may bo allowed to pass, but Ouida doesn’t appear
to know that the men of her fictitious Caucus are
Tories almost to an odd one. The democratic
small shopkeeper is a rant avis and the republican
Calico Jimmy has not yet been discovered, while
the manufacturer of small arms must necessarily
be a howling Jingo. For information as to tie-
politics of coffin-ship freighters apply to Samuel
Plimsoll, who will declare on oath that they
worship the very ground Her Gracious walks
upon. Another of Ouida’s thoughts is: “Demo
craey, after having made everything supremely
hideous and uncomfortable for everybody, always
ends by clinging to the coat-tails of some success-
ful general.” Ouida is a shallow-minded old
woman.


Ev erybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Holler Flour. It'is the greatest success of the
age.
The attention of readers of Thk Bulxetin is
directed to the fact that Mrs. Kilminster', of the
Olaren-don Hotel, Manly, has made special
arrangements for the accommodation and con
venience of her visi tors during the winter months,
and special terms can be had on application.
For solid comfort the Clarendon Hotel is n t
to be surpassed in the colonies.
Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. 3YI. MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, &c., See.,
SUITABLE FOR
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which lie will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate R ates. A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note, Raters and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Street).
[?]
846 Macquavie-slrect North, Sydney, July 10, 1889.
,Iv Dear Moorabinda, —
Kowalski’s somewhat “ reminiscency ” opera, “ Mousti-
que,” at Sydney Opera House drew a good audience on
Cth inst., when some pretty gowns adorned the d.c. A
nice art dress was of white silk with full sleeves, trimmed
with folds of pale-green silk. A sensible winter theatre-
gown was of salmon-pink silk with full vest of ficelle lace,
the bodice made high, and with sleeves, yet looking quite
festive. It is absurd, when you think of it, to wear low
gowns to the shows in winter. If you notice, a woman in
a see-more frock generally sits blue-nosed and shivering
for a miserable five minutes and then makes a dive for
her cloak, and remains huddled up in it for the rest of
the evening. Two of .Miss Tree’s dresses in “Moustique ’’
are very pretty—in the Greek style, of course, as all the
frocks are ; the one in white llama, beautifully draped,
and edged with Greek design in pale-blue ; the other in
mu-de-nil silk with Greek hem design in gold. “Mou-
stique,” which I am sure would run for weeks if only the
“hook”—now, did Marcus Clarke write that book?—
were not so stupendously imbecile, makes way for “ Mari-
tan a” shortly After which, “Faust.”
The projected Sydney Ladies’ Club is still in the misty
beyond, but the Ladies’ Club promoted by Miss Stables in
Brisbane six months ago is now in full swing with 87 mem-
bers at two guineas per head. I went over the club
recently and really found it most comfortable, though the
arrangements are more suitable for December than June.
There are four rooms—three upstairs and one down—
where members can introduce their husbands or their
brothers or their cousins, you know, and where light
refreshments can be negotiated up to 10 p.m. So far,
there are no beds, hut the projectress intends to introduce
one or two as an experiment, which, if Brisbane society is
anything like a certain section of Sydney society in point
of fondness for the flowing bowl, will instantly be a great
success. The rooms are fitted up in the matting and
cane-lounge style, tattle screens at each door and boxes
of flowers on the window-sill and everything is cool and
airy and clean. I was sorry to hear from the promotress—
a small energetic woman with short grey hair—that it
isn’t a paying speculation so far —society regarding the
Club as rather a superfluous convenience just yet.
Miss Lilian Seccombe, the English actress imported by
Messrs. Brough and Boucicault, is a niece of Staff-
commander Brent, of H.M.S. Orlando. Apropos of the
Orlando, the children’s party given by the captain and
officers the other day was a great occasion for the chicks.
Lord Carington took his three little girls on board, and
all the “best” infants were there, of course. A dear
little boy was dressed as “Little Lord Fauntleroy” in
golden brown’ velvet with old gold sash and brown velvet
hat trimmed with plumes in both shades.
I hear that strained relations exist just now between a
lady who is to engineer a stall at Sydney Hospit al Bazaar and
her myrmidons. It seems that the lady has a complexion
to which grey proves very becoming and she insists on her
adherents donning the persecuted heroine’s dedicated
colour, no matter how badly the tint handicaps them in
the race for admiration. This, of course, her helpeis
murmur at, the tow-haired worker in a good cause having
set her heart on stealing about in a long blue cloak and
veil, while the girl with an indistinct skin pines for the
smudgy haven of brown serge. The stall proprietor, how-
ever, refuses to allow her goods to be offered by a wild
jumble of assorted sisters Dora, and clings to the vindica-
tion of her own complexion against all odds. Therefore,
there is a sound of much shrill argument at the committee
meetings.
People snigger—even somebody in The Bulletin sniggers
—at the idea of Fred. Leslie, Nellie Farren, and Marion Hood
appearing in America at a sacred concert, but perhaps
they’re not aware that—behind the curtain, anyhow—
Marion Hood has the reputation of being deeply' religious.
She generally brings a “serious” book to the theatre, and
reads it at the wings, and has never been known to neglect
church on Sunday. Which is more than many a “pillar”
can say for himself.
The first military dance of this season took place at the
Victoria Barracks on 28th ult., and proved quite a bril-
liant affair. Lord Carington was the partner of the
evening, of course, and came with the Hon. Rupert, Mr.
Herbert, and Miss Walenn. The music of the regimental
hand was simply perfect. Amongst the guests was
General Stewart, at present “ doing” Australia.
At a Sy’dney rink the other evening, as a fair skater
completed her hundredth round, there was a wild scene of
several rinkists falling over a somewhat pre-Adamite gen-
tleman in gaiters, who boldly stemmed the tide of skatists
till lie met the lady—his wife. Without remark of any'
kind he clutched her in his arms, skates and all, and
carried her bodily out of the rink. She has not returned
since.
Apropos of the young gentleman who was horsewhipped
by “papa” in the presence of two friends of the family
recently for making nasty remarks about a pretty Sydney
girl, I hear tiiat he won't be able to do the Block for aii
age yet, as his face is every colour of the rainbow. It
must have been very gratifying for the young lady to know
that “ papa ” thrashed him with her riding-whip.
On the 10th ult. a large crowd assembled in the R.C.
Cathedral, Bathurst, to witness the marriage of Miss J.
Stephens, of Bathurst, and Mr. II. Daly, of Victoria. The
bride wore a charming gown of white corded silk with
side panels of brocaded velvet and pearls ; her going-away'
dress was a moss-green cashmere and plush relieved with
pink silk, bonnet en suite. The bride, who is well-known
in Bathurst musical circles, received many presents from
friends in almost every colony.
The Sydney “Reunions” held their third dance of the
season at Needs’’ rooms on flip 2nd inst. Quite a crush
resulted, and every second woman wore black and pink,
while the floor was decidedly heavy after the first “ valse.”
I suppose it’s rather post-mortem to enthuse over the
handsome dresses worn in “ Money ” at Sydney Criterion,
but if I hadn’t been on the stormy deep for the last week
my notes of admiration would have risen on the breeze
ages ago. Lucia Harwood wears some emphatically
pretty gowns. A sap-green silk, trained, and beautifully
draped with panels and Y-shaped vest of cream silk,
comes first. Then her tea-gown in the boudoir scene is an
art triumph—it is a Greek gown in oiel-blue silk with long
shoulder draperies of crushed strawberry silk ; while her
black merveilleux with Elizabethan collar edged with jet
and jetted net sleeves is stylish in every detail. Mrs,
Enough's one dress is of grey silk with V-shaped bodice,
trimming of steel embroidery ; and Miss Lillian Gilmore
(who, though she hasn’t got the “ Australian twang,” has
the distressin’ habit now and again of dropping her ter-
minal “g’s,” saying—“goin’,” “coinin;” and soon) scores
in a pretty merveilleux with V-shaped bodice, outlined
with folds of crystal-spotted tulle, sleeves of crystal-
beaded net.
Did 1 tel! you of the marriage at St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
(lie other day, of Mr. W. A. Gordon, to Miss Dora
I’osbery, eldest daughter of the N.S.W. Inspector-General
of Police? It was a pretty affair, and the two Misses
Fosbery (bridesmaids) in eau-de-nil and pink, carried pink-
slippers filled with flowers instead of the effete bouquet.
The wedding-gifts were simply legion, the bridegroom’s
present being a complete toilet-set mounted in silver.
What a neat idea it would be to have (out of compliment
to the bride’s papa) joined together the happy couple with
floral handcuffs!
I read that the Princess of Wales takes two hours to
dress every day. Which is not so very long) considering
how often she changes her gowns—and her complexion ?
And nobody knows where she gets her frocks !
Yet another anecdote of tire O’Flannigan. The latest
is that a Sydney matron came upon Mary Jane “ dust-
ing ” her washing-stand the other day and was over-
whelmed to find that the operation was being performed
with her softest hairbrush !
A concert in aid of the Infants’ Asylum will take place
on the 17th inst. in the vestibule of Mrs. Doctor Garrett’s
residence, Woollahra. Quite a galaxy of talent is billed
for the occasion, and Miss Augusta Dargon has promised
a recitation. In so good a cause I hope the concert will
prove successful, though public entertainments in private
houses so far don't seem to fill a long-felt want beside the
Beautiful Harbour.
Lord and Lady Carington gave Mr. Wellington, the
most deserving of secretaries, a “ send-off ” in the shape
of a “ select ” dinner-party and hop just previous to his
departure for the land of the Cup. At the dance there
were about 50 couples present, and “ Her Excellency ”
looked charming in a polonaise of Indian red brocade
draped over a jape of eau-de-nil merveilleux.
Though hailing from the enlightened land of the Stars
and Stripes the clever Silbon-Stirk combination allowed
themselves to he “commanded” by Lord Carington on
sth inst. at Sydney Exhibition Building, when, of course,
the attendance was denser then a suburban alderman. I
quite pitied Ids Excellency (who brought a crowd of men
with him), for there were 5000 people in the house, and
during the intervals 10,000 eyes were fired unwinkingly on
him as though the trite littlecopyhookism “ Do not stare”
didn't apply to Governors, who are always treated as un-
emotional images. Tiie performance, was very successful,
and 1 must congratulate the fair Russian skater on her
good sense in assuming black “knickerbockers” for her
act.
Balmain Rowing Club hall is to happen at the local
Town Hull on 26th inst. and is expected, as usual, to be
one of the most successful of affairs. On 31st lust, the
Charity ball in aid of Tempo Refuge occurs at Sydney
Exhibition Building. On 16th inst. the committee of the
Southern Amateur Theatrical Society will hold a festive
evening in the Carington Hall.
It is entirely superfluous for me to state that the Mer-
cantile Rowing Club’s annual ball at West’s Rooms on the
sth inst. was one of the jolliest public halls of the season,
because it’s always built that way. There were a hundred
and fifty couples present, and the dresses were very nice
in some cases. The best gown was a salmon-pink silk with
interludes of eau-de-nil, the skirt draperies caught
in the front with waterlilies, the herthe ornate
with pink crystal tulle, and shoulder - knots of
pink and eau-de-nil ribbons, eau-de-nil feather fan.
A pink and cream striped floral pongee with folds of
pink silk and trimmed everywhere with pearls was also in
good taste, and a pretty art gown was of tulle skirt over
cream merveilleux, the bodice having hanging shoulder
draperies and cream and sea-green merveilleux. But I
saw one or two Pickwickian frocks. One was a “ washing ”
b’ue-coloured sateen, covered all over with coarse white
muslin, producing the effect of a boarding-house toilet-
table. Another was a bona fide walking dress of Indian-
red silk over a cream silk front; and the large, fat lady in
a gorgeous flowered silk restricted herself to a flowing
skirt and two shoulder-straps. Au reste, De Groen’s music
was divine, and Callaghan and Son evidently staked their
reputation on the supper-table.
Avery depressing attendance shivered on the g.s. at
Sydney Association on 6th inst. to see Port Melbourne
heat N.S.W. at football (Melbourne rules). There wasn’t
an attempt at dressing, and the feature of the lawn was a
small woman in a terra-cotta skirt and a bright green
plush mantle hugging a scraggy, wet-nosed poodle to her
infinite heart. The rest were men in those nice, übiquitous
tan-hats and they all looked sad, and didn’t “ barrack ”
worth a toss, however the game went. As for the visitors,
somebody drew my attention to how fat their-ahem!—■
calves were, and as their hose were mostly down one could
admire snowy proportions at leisure. This, of course,
maybe gratifying to some, but for my part I think tighter
garters would be ever so much nicer in the field, don’t you ?
What is our boasted climate about ? At a Sydney
theatre the other night I could hardly see the stalls for
blue fog. And you should have smelt it! The fog, though,
isn’t confined to the theatres. Could anything be mistier
than this advt. clipped from a Sydney evening paper?
"TWILL any Kind Person assist Widow in making a
* ' Home or otherwise? 5.A.8., Haymarket P.O.
And, again, a recent advt. for a young lady for a mer-
chant’s office concluded “must be used to pocketing.”
I see that Mr. Seymour Fort, whom Clara talks so much
about, is going to continue his position of private secre-
tary to Sir Henry Loch when that gentleman goes to in-
struct the Capo colonists in the rudiments of “ loyal
demonstrations.” When Sir Henry went home he loaned
his private sec. to the present deputy-potentate of Mel-
bourne Government House (reminds one of “Hold the
Fort, for I am coming,” doesn’t it?), and when he returns
in October lie will pack up Mr. Seymour F. along with the
other goods and chattels still at the old place. By the
way, the Loch message to Sir William Robinson was a very
lofty composition to send by telegraph—“ I return in
October as Governor of Victoria.” Quite a crushing way
of explaining that poor Robinson would be dee as
Lurcher says in “ Dorothy,” if he hung about the shop
after the real king had returned to finish off his reign.
I suppose the Lochs will have all their brothers
and sisters in greatness down for Cup week for
the last time. It will he quite a solemn occasion, I’m
sure, and a dreadful lot of “official ” fibs are certain to fie
talked about dear Lady Loch and the gap she will leave in
Melbourne society, &c. But, do you know, the local
theatrical managers prefer the Robinsons to their prede-
cessors ? Only fancy! They give their patronage to
every show—good, bad, or indifferent—except the music-
halls, where dreadful people sing that “ the Prince of Wales
is fairly mashed on good old Mary Ann ” and other dis-
loyalty like that. In your ear, though, my dear. When
Charley was in Melbourne he saw, sitting under the Rev.
’Arry Rickards, at one of the St. George’s Hall week-night
services, he saw—well—somebody who looked like a very
distinguished personage, in a wig and false beard, or he
says he did.
We are threatened with an innnovation in gentlemen’s
evening warpaint. Tan gloves are coming in instead of
the old familiar white kids which cost a small fortune to a
“ gay ” young man who allows that cleanliness is next to
godliness. If they come in I would beseech the masculine
buyer not to indulge in deep brown tans as they generally
shed their dye plentifully. Light “sandy” tans are the
best.
Apropos of big, fat hobbledehoys being put into short
jackets, as is now the fashion again, Linda says it is be-
cause the mothers want to keep young. The poor hoys of
17 or 18 have to show their Dutch galleon bulwarks
because the mothers choose to appear decollettee and
with bare arms. It is the case over again of Cis Fav-
ringdon, in “ The Magistrate.” Then there comes trouble
with the governess.
There is to bo no vice-regal ball at Brisbane Governmen t
House this year, and the legend that their vice-regalities
don’t countenance “darneing” is sadly authentic.
Northern “ sassiety ” now regrets that it didn’t sample
Sir Henry Blake, the chief objection to whom, amongst a
“ high-toned ” circle, appears to have been that a near
relative of ills in Brisbane is connected with the shandy-
gaff interest, and it would have never done to take any
more of the shandygaff interest by the hand at Govern-
ment House.
A sea-captain tells me of a star who left Sydney in his
steamer recently. She was overwhelmed with offerings
of verdure, and held every tribute to her breaking heart
until the last devotee had vanished over the side —when
s'.ie at once ran down to the saloon and threw the veget-
ables on the table. “ Take, them, steward,” she said—
“ they’re only a bother!” Such is the reward of star-
gazers.
1 have received a tremendous account of the fancy-
dress flare-up at St. James’ Park Rink,- Melbourne, which
was re-opened for the season on July 1st. The St. James’
is the particular haunt of the bluest bloods, who came
down from Toorak and other toney districts in shoals to
be present on this festive occasion, and made gloomy
Prince’s Bridge terminus look like a pantomime while
they stood around “ with grooms and porters waiting for
the train.” That’s Tennyson, I believe. Well, anyway,
there was a perfect push of the elite down the rink—
skating elite, that, is to say—and most of them turned out
in costly raiment for the eighty-guineas-worth of prizes. A
handpainted satin took the judge's vote for “ most hand-
some,” and a Miss Sampson quite “ knocked ” the Philis-
tines with a complete Queen Elizabeth outfit, which was
both elegant and regardless of expense.
What an awful thing- about the rich young South Aus-
tralienne who was so terribly frightened by a Cingalese
guide at Colombo. She and her friends were P. and O.
passengers and had left the ship to “do ” Colombo in the
usual way. The lady got separated from the rest of them
and all at once the nasty black nigger began to kiss her
with great fury. However, she screamed—you bet! —and
some gentlemen rushed up and collared Othello, who was
afterwards sentenced to be hanged and imprisoned for 90
years, or something like that.
The following, referring to a recent Queen’s drawing-
room, is of Sydney interest“ Mrs. Henry Bull presented
three daughters. Her own toilet was magnificent, a green
velvet train, with white and gold brocaded petticoat
fringed with feathers tipped with green and gold ; her
married daughter wore a harmony in grey and silver, and
the Misses Bull were in white and tulle and striped white
trains with guelder roses, which peeped from beneath the
shoulder at the hack. Very few gentlemen attend
drawing-rooms now-a-days, unless they have an official
position, but large family parties put in an appearance
nevertheless. Have people more daughters than of yore,
or do they bring more to Court ? ”
YourS affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Ah ! do not warmly 7 squeeze my hand
(This is not rhyme, hut reason)
Sweet love ! I wish you’d understand
This is the chilblain season.
The triumph of Protection over Freetrade
at Redfern was facilitated by the use of Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine by the canvassers.
By seven votes to four Dr. O’Connor’s
motion to have all honorary medical officers of the
Sydney Hospital elected by open voting was
rejected. It is understood that this subject will
be opened afresh at an early date.
Sydney E. News publishes a cablegram
from London which states that the Primrose
Gazette approves of its articles on the Dillon-
Deasy-Esmonde business. If the Primrose
Gazette said that about an article in The Bulle-
tin we’d have to take “Rough on Rats.”
An enterprising Sydney journalist lately
offered to send to one of the principal London
dailies regular contributions on Australian affairs.
The following was thereby received from the
editor, one of the most pushing and go-a-head
men in England ;
, , 1889.
Dear Sir, —Thanks for your offer, but I am afraid Aus-
tralia is too remote for readers of a daily paper like ours
to be keenly interested in its affairs.—Your very truly,
Verb, sap.
In these days of electric energy and ’cuteness,
advertising forms no small part in the details of a suc-
cessful firm. As showing what is going on over the
waters we have lately had invasions of some of the most
enterprising firms whose advertising must form a con-
siderable part of their business. Last, but not least, is the
Sunlight Soap firm of Lever Bros, who have, we believe,
the largest Soap Works in the world. This firm has com-
pletely revolutionised the soap business in the old country
by simply' sparing no expense to make their one article as
perfect as possible, and by astute and extensive adver-
tising making the soap known as a household word.
Lever Bros, came here relying, as a foundation for their
trade, upon the superiority of their soap, which they
believe to be the purest and most perfect of its kind at
present in the market. Their wonderful success in
Europe simply shows what can ho effected when a firm
knows that it has got the article which the public want,
and has the pluck and enterprise to push it as this firm
has, and is doing.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Yeoman of the Guard.’*
Her Majesty’s “ In the Ranks."
Opera House “ Maritana.”
Criterion. .. “ Joseph’s Sweetheart."
Gaiety “Two Lovely Black Eyes.’
The Cyclorama The Battle of Gettysburg.
School ok Arts Frank Lincoln.
Metropolitan Skating Rink Ultimo,
Darlingiiurst Skating Rink Dailinghurst
Elite Skating Rink Kedfern.
Trocadkro Skating Rink Newtown.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal.. ’... “ Bells of Haslemere;”
Princess’ “Jo.”
Alexandra “ Crimes of Paris.”
Opera House The Silbon-Stirk Company
St. George’s Hall Harry Rickards’ Company.
Cyclorama “Battle of Waterloo.”
Deadheads excluded to make room for
dollars, and no available standing-room in the
Royal to see the first of “ The Yeoman of the
Guard.” It is the ancient evergreen story, but
away back in the 16th century when beauteous
maidens and others loved and were beloved on the
green of the grim old Tower, under such condi-
tions as were imposed by the customs of the tor-
turing, murderous Tudors. Elsie Maynard’s
sudden plunge into matrimony with a bandage
over her eyes, and a man doomed to die in an
hour and score one off his brother before he goes,
spreads affliction over many grades of society.
Colonel Fairfax, jibont to suffer death for sorcery,
is married, makes his escape, is shot and drowned,
all inside a few hours ; and when he turns up in a
new suit of clothes, at the end of the last act; to
sing an explanation and claim his wife, the noise
made by the people who are in a hurry to go out
and get home to see if the burglars have stolen
the baby, shuts down on the tail-end of the show
and creates a craving for blood. Hearts whose
fondness for Nellie Stewart has been intensified
by absence up to the verge of foolishness
renew their fealty in a roar —and Phoebe
Meryll, with her arms round Wilfred Shadbolt’s
neck, shows that there has been no more change in
the modus operandi of woman’s humbug during
the past 300 years than in the extent of weak
man’s simplicity and helplessness. Jack Point,
the strolling jester, is not such a fool as he looks,
and sustains a difficult character in the belief that
many bigger than himself are looking at him. The
popularity of “The Yeoman of the Guard ” will
be in no danger for a week, but the barrel-organ
factories are working overtime.
ii?
Californian exchange at 487c. on Frank
Lincoln’s Australian plunder will be one of his
best jokes. With the proceeds he can follow Mark
Twain’s example and rent a piece of an English
county and a country mansion. There will lie one
humourist the less for the time being, but the
masses will get temporary relief in the struggle
for existence.
-;',f -*- *
The late Marcus Clarke’s knowledge of
natural history is the one link which seems to con-
nect the said-to-be-comic opera of “ Moustique, ”
now running at Sydney Opera House, with its
possible parent. The whereabouts of women on
an an unknown island is a discovery which any
live midshipman would be sure to make in ad-
vance of the mixed crew of Algerine corsairs who
land with him under the guise of blighted tourists.
Honours are henceforth easy for the daughters of
Eve ; these had done all that women covdd do to
keep out of mischief when the seedy lot of repre-
sentatives of all the nations (including China under
the Opium Treaty) came along with the same old
apple and played back the temptation which scut-
tled their sire and turned the Garden of Eden
into utter desolation. Queen Venus should set a
better example than she does, but the necessity
for constantly reaching after the top note in the
score helps her downfall. During the struggle
the chords of memory are vibrated once and again
by a two-bar scrap of some ancient minstrelsy,
which is scarcely recognised ere it is losa
in a wild shriek, and the catching melo-
dies which were at the disposal of the
composer are not there. The drinking song,
being inspired by that’ depressing compound of
soapsuds and woe known as lager beer, is intro-
duced for the purpose of undermining the morals
of two already imbecile constables, and scares up
a recollection of the musical middle ages, when the
land staggered under the first shock of “ The Rat-
catcher’s Daughter”;—
“ Lager beer, lager beer,”
It’s neither ale nor porter,
They don’t drink it at Westminstier
But they do this side of the water !
Flora Graupner, “the merry little Moustique,”
does the work of a much larger person in saving
this opera from slaughter, and the climate of the
island strongly favours the airiness of Miss Lillian
Tree’s severely classical costumes, which, it they
are a trifle “bunchy,” are still beautiful and be-
coming. “ Maritana ” takes its place on Saturday,
with Lillian Tree in the name-part, Flora Graup-
ner as Lazarillo, Knight Aston, Forde, Buzzi,
Gilpin, and a newly-caught chorus powerful of
lung and sweet to gaze upon will fill the bill.
-* -»
Marcus Clarke wrote more plays than
people think. He had several acted in Melbourne.
First there was “Peacock’s Feathers,” a transla-
tion of Moliere’s “Bourgeois Gentilhomme,”
acted at Theatre Royal, with Clarke’s father-in-
law, John Dunn, as the principal character. It is.
strange Clarke did not make into a play “His
Natural Life,” of which three dramatisations have
been made in Australia : Leitch’s, Dampier’s, and
Tyrrell’s, and a fourth in England. Perhaps some
more. However, to go on with Clarke’s plays.
He wrote a three-act drama plot, acted at the
Princess Theatre, with Eloise Juno in the part of
the Man in the Iron Mask. The piece was suc-
cessful, Clarke being called before the curtain at
the end. Again, he wrote a comedietta, in which


Mrs. Clarke appeared. He furnished one of the
Royal Pantomimes, “Mother Goose.”
** * *
“ Every Man for Himself ” lias been
played for so many years in Sydney and by so
many talented performers that May Holt would
have a big contract on hand to throw any new
light on the way it’s done with less of the raw
material. But she has helped herself and the
Fates have aided her with two lovers, a rich uncle,
an extra smart boy, and much villainy. Murder,
matrimony, tire, and wreck are followed by salva-
tion, and the soothing influences of triuiiipliant
virtue mellows the Academy atmosphere even it it
fails in depopulating the skating-rinks.
** * *
W here the wheels of fashion are greased
with the best colza, and the progress of Time is
punctuated with carnivals, managers are all on
the look-out for novelties, and the inventor of a
new rink pastime to fit both sexes may claim a
brighter crown than the author of anew creed.
The past week has seen three fancy-dress carnivals
and a half-mile handicap for old women ! Also,
an unrehearsed effect on the sidewalk in Wynyard-
street, when the opposite poles of a fair young
thing in practise repelled every effort of her tutor
to keep the right end uppermost.
tit iic-
“ In the Ranks” has been unpacked and
sot up again at Her Majesty’s, and is running its
way into the millennium with an advantageous
change or two in the caste. Continuous glory for
Beautiful George.
-*- *
Santley has been chortling his time-worn
/ay to immense audiences at Sydney Protestant
Hall. Many people (most of whom, of course,
never before heard him sing in all their lives) say
that Santley is not the man he used to be!
Neither are we, neither are they, but we and they
get there just the same. So does Santley. Repu-
tation does it! It is fashionable to go, and so
people go—though they, might well go for other
reasons. “ Heard Santley yet?” says one. “No,”
says the unworldly wise—thus socially damning
’himself in one act. All amateurs who sing
“ Simon the Cellarer ” should hear Santley do it.
The volume of the earth's misery will bear re-
duction.
* * *-
Miss Jennie Lee, whose shadow has not
grown less during six years of absence, shuffled on
to the Melbourne Princess’ stage on Saturday
night, clad in the tatters that were’bought from a
real crossing-sweeper just as they hung and bear-
ing the familiar broom of legendary interest. As
Jo this minute actress is all that she used to be
and a little more. Any intermediate rounding of
her form has not been sufficient to prevent a strik-
ing embodiment of the character that Dickens
created, while the rounding of her art has put the
performance almost beyond criticism. Jennie
Lee’s Jo is a rugged poem, a solemn lesson, an
awful fact, and when the urchin speaks the
“Bitter Cry of Outcast London” comes stealing
across the undulating leagues of deep blue sea, and
those silken bonds that bind us to Jo’s native
land tremble as we shudder. No attempt
at sustained interest—outside the gutter-snipe
here—is perceptible in Mr. Burnett’s weak
adaptation from “ Bleak House,” but his version,
with all its faults, enables the company to appear
something like the people they assume to be. Miss
Polly Emery, as the besmeared and sooty Guster,
doesn't fall far short of the popular ideal. Miss
Helen Kinnaird —albeit the gallery boys couldn’t
catch her rich baritone tones, and desired her to
give more lip,to her emotion—is a creditable Lady
Dedlock, looking the part to perfection and
speaking in the monotone prescribed by the nove-
list. Other new people, in Messrs. George Walton
and Fred. Neebe, put life into their parts, while
some made first impressions of an unfavourable
character. Royce is, however, a pleasing feature,
and the scenery looks nice as usual. But nothing
makes much difference except Jo, a boy who can
easily till a theatre again after this lapse of time,
and will, perhaps, serve as a tender reminder of
Nellie Farren.
That far more shocking outrage upon Eng-
lish literature, which has been ruthlessly perpe-
trated at the Opera House in the honoured name
of “Old Curiosity Shop,” will not harrow the
feelings of Melbourne after to-night. Miss Katie
Putnam takes a farewell benefit on Friday (12th),
after .which the Silbons will demonstrate that a
good somersault can touch more chords in the
human heart than bad drama. “The Crimes of
Paris,” meanwhile, is touching chords at the
Alexandra, where enraptured audiences drink hot
blood by the pail-ful and then hiss the villain who
provides them with the liquor that pleases their
palates. Phil, Beck’s Demon is such a twin-
brother to Gaston Yandeloupe that the tw T o
iniquitous Frenchmen were probably mixed up by
the monthly nurse and ought to be each other
instead, so a good deal of the success of “ The
.Crimes” may be attributed to Mr. Alfred
Dampier, 'whose name on the bill is a mine of
wealth in moderation.
* * -X- -*-
The “ Bells of Haslemere ” are ringing a
prosperous peal at the Royal, but except that the
internal mechanism of this show works better than
at first it doesn’t improve on acquaintance. In-
stead of the hero being left to die of malaria on a
dusty swamp, while a carpenter was shoving a
steamer along the distant Mississippi, he is now
properly rescued in a tangible traditional style.
Yet the heavy villain's death is still a hazy, un-
certain episode, and nobody understands why a
blacksmith and his wife put their breakfast-table
on the high road and ask a “ toff ” who fishes at the
back of the forge to partake of their hospitality.
It is pitiable, too, to see Mr. .1. H. Clyndes travel-
ling from England to America for the purpose of
saying : “ Ha ! ha ! the game is mine,” or words
to that effect, and . then returning home by the
next boat. Furthermore, the name of Beresford
is unanimously pronounced as Burysford, although
there is a fashionable precedent for calling, it
“Beresford.” A dazzling display of scenery
blinds the average eye to a hundred absurdities
in detail, and theP“ Bells of Haslemere ” will keep
J on doing it every evening until further notice.
‘ -*- * *
Harry Rickards’ show is booming all the
lime,'and a few other pepphf give mi Id’ entertain -
meats around the Melbourne district without
catching any of the, diseases Current, a fact which
: testifies to the strange powers of whisky asa
general disinfectant and antidote to drains. After
to-night (Thursday) Frank Clark’s present com-
pany quit the Victoria Hall for Sydney, and the
vacuum left by Good Old Mary Ann will be some-
thing else of colossal dimensions.
-*- * *
Mr, G. C. Miln broke the Ballarat record
into small pieces by taking £1422 in a season of 12
nights. An average of : £llß' a night must be
Ver y soothing fur Shakespeare's memory.
At Adela de Royal, Char es Warner main-
tains his gay popularity as Hai le . Miss Warner,
as the mad Ophelia, scored a success, supported by
H. Vincent as the Ghost, and H. Flemming as
Horatio. “ Drink ” followed with all its horrors
in grim detail. Warner’s D.T. scene is painfully
realistic, and Herbert Flemming delivers his tem-
perance oration with eloquence, but the harangue
falls on many doubting listeners. “Captain
Swift” follows, and it is anticipated that Haddon
Chamber’s drama will be a big “ go ” in the saintly
city. Tommy Hudson discards burlesque, and
makes a fresh start with variety business at
Garner’s Theatre. Ouda and other novelties
are announced.
ft ft * ft
Laughter-making Frank Lincoln’s proper
name is Hopkins, and he claims kinship with the
particular variety of Hop. we keep on draught at
The Bulletin office, their mutual ancestor having
been Stephen Hopkins, one of the Pilgrim Fathers
who took saloon passages to Murker in the fast
and favourite clipper Mayflower. This interesting
genealogical fact shows that humour runs in.
families.
it- it- ft ft
Pat Feeney, chief of the Oirish brigade of
music-hall vocalists, has dissipated himself to
death at the early age of 88. Xew-chums will
remember how the London halls billed him as the
“Irish Ambassador,” and how he first made his
“name’’—Jerusalem !—-with a classic ballad com-
mencing this fashion :
“ I was seatbed right up in the earner
Wid Sullivan’s wife on my knee ;
Slmve, I knew her botar she was marrhied,
And wid her I’ve had many’s the sphree.
I tickled her just out of friendship,
She answered me back wid a soigh,
Whin I found meeself under the table
Wid Sullivan’s boot in me oeye.”
ft ft ft ft
A Melbourne theatrical manager with-
draws his advertisement because of an unkindly
notice in one paper. This is an unpleasant kind
ELECTRIC PHONTO-ENG. CO. 8 BRIDCE-ST.
MISS JENNY WATT-TANNER,
PHOTO, BY CUARLEMONT,] AN AUSTRALIAN-BORN ACTRESS. [SYDNEY.
(if tiling’, giving it to be understood that the
favourable notice is an equivalent for the paltry
three-and-sixpenny ad. It is rather ridiculous in
tlie case of a newspaper with its profits, maybe, of
£30,000 a year. The best criticisms in London
used to be written in Punch, by “ One Who Pays.’
But we remember how Editor Delane, of the
Times, gave a general direction to Oxenfqrd, as
theatrical critic, that he couldn’t be worried by
complaining actors ! Therefore, it must be drawn
very mild.
-*- -M: -Mf
Tragedian Miln seems to. have struck tire
Melbourne people as being a mine of charity to be
continually worked in the interests of humanity at
large and William Shakespeare, deceased, in par-
ticular. Not long ago Mr. Miln broke the con-
tinuity of his “Hamlet” run for the purpose of
giving a benefit, which resulted in some £250
towards the Brough and Boucieault Fund. Then
he went along to Ballarat, where he contributed a
cool £5O and a performance in aid of the Immortal
Bard’s effigy, to be erected in that salubrious city
when a few other people also planked down their
cash with the same open-hearted liberality. Ere
the ink on his last cheque was fairly dry, _a man
writes-to the Hera Tin, suggesting that “if Mr.
Miln wants to return something for the generous
way in which the Melbourne public supported him
and his company ” he can give a matinee, directly
he returns to the Opera House, on behalf of
a Smellbourne statue to tin- memory of
“Bill the Bard.” To this Miln has replied
by promising another £5O down, together with the
proceeds of a night- no lukewarm day-show—in
his opening week. But he objects to the sugges-
tion that he is called upon to make a thank-offer-
ing to the Melbourne public, who didn’t support
his last season from charitable motives, as though
it was a hospital or benevolent asylum, but merely
bought the classic drama because _it was darned
good value for their money as times go. The
cranky Herald correspondent had better ask the
Triumvirate why they don’t build a church to the
glory of Gilbert and Sullivan, and throw in a
stained-gjass-window in commemoration of Buns
and Pettitt. Which reminds us that they ought,
on a similar line of argument, to fix up a dnnkmg-
fountain or something as a mark of respect to the
man who wrote “ Sinbad the Sailor.
* tK-
Yet another one of many benefits founded
on the Bijou Theatre conflagration transpired at
Melbourne Royal last Saturday afternoon. Ihe
beneliciaire on this occasion was Mr. Uiliiam
Marshall, a sufferer by the fire, and a printer ot
theatrical programmes from which the public can
glean little information about the play, but a mass
of details concerning soaps, oyster-rooms, boot-
blacking and photographic studios. However,
Mr. Marshall deserved a ben. as much as anybody
else who has the bad luck to get burnt out, and
the matinee stood on its merits. W hat occurs to
one is that Mr. Wilson, proprietor cf the Bijou
and Palace Hotel, suffered inure loss than anybody
else but doesn’t get a ben. at all. A\ here s the
“Wilson Testimonial ?” Why hasn t \V iJson
found a committee, and a mark of sympathy and
the rest of it? He not only serves the public
hang it all! he keeps a “public.” And actors
ought to remember that if there were no hotels
the perfeshun would be just about dead in a week.
-*- * ft- ft
Little Waters, the “Call Boy,” was being
inqnested just as last week’s Bulletin, containing
a paragraph suggesting a ben. for poor Cocky, was
delivered to the Melbourne newsagents. He died
with his face downwards in a warm hath, but
although Mr. Alfred Bumpier testified to him
having talked about emigrating to another sphere,
the coroner decided that suicide was not proven.
Poor chap ! He is still Waters now, and we hope
he hasn’t run deep—not very deep.
vj< £ l4 Alt
Ifc is almost a certainty that Wilson
Barrett and Miss -Eastlake will be > acting in
Sydney early next year with their repertoire of
“Lights o’London,” “ Silver King,” “ Claudian,
“ Cli'to,” “ Ben Ma Chreo,” “ Now-a-days,”
“ Cliatterton,” “ Golden Ladder,” &c., &c. They
will put up the newest plays first. We don't sup"
pose they will play “Lights o’ London” and
“ Silver King” except as curiosities, the stuffing
being knocked out. It would be hardly worth
mounting them sumptuously. “ Claudian ” will
go well, also Wilson Barrett’s “ Hamlet. ” The
other Barrett, Lawrence, familiarly Larry, talked
much a year or two ago of coming to Australia
from America, but he thought we were rather cool
over that excellent actor, W. E. Sheridan.
-;i:- * iif *-
The Shah has been to hear Madame Melba
at Covent Garden, and we hope the nasty heathen
chucked a diamond as big as a hen’s egg at her
dear Australian tootsies. Otherwise the Alhambra
ballet-girls—forward, made-up minxes!—will scoop
the lot.
-Xf ifc # *
They’re going to saw in halves the Marble
Man, to see what he’s made of. If they drank the
same sort of liquor in the distant days in which
he lived, as now, then that Marble Man's liver
must by the time he died, have, been hard enough
to resist petrifaction. We make this idea a
present to the surgeons..
{R- * -Xf
An A,Rt; is writer on Mummer Worship
made the fatal mistake of endeavouring to say
something about Irving, an actor who is too recent,
for any Argus fossil to have found out facts
concerning him. Hence this : —“ After early
failures ho had previously earned considerable
notice as Jingle, Digby Grant, and other charac-
ters, but it was not until the production of “ The
Bells” that he completely took London by storm.”
It was on the first night of “The Bells ” that
Irving made his dehut, as Jingle, in the flimsy
afterpiece, “Pickwick.” And just here we are
reminded that Charles Warner subsequently took
over the part of Jingle for a few nights in order to
give the great man a rest. Warner was a promis-
ing young “walking gentleman” in those days,
and used to let off Ins superfluous steam in the
opening farces.
At Poverty Point.
Just before his death Carl Rosa had arranged with tha
Orient Company to bring his opdra coin patty to Australia.
Augustus Harris has engaged Madame Lablaohe, well-
known in Sydney, as one of his leading contraltos.
Amy Shcrwin’s company was badly slated by the Hong-
kong papers.
Chang, the giant, is living in China, European style,
with his Geelong wife.
Sydney E. News placed the announcement of Madame
Jaffa’s piano recital amongst the undertakers’ notices.
Miss Leah Thompson, daughter of the Australian i
leviathan bookmaker, has become a student at (he Roys'
Academy of Music. Randegger says she'has a very Aw?
voice, at which a scurrilous paper remarks' that-she does
not inherit it from her father. We don’t agree with the
writer. “Joe” hasn’t a silvery voice, hut his top notes
are worth a gold-mine.
“ You are a professional elocutionist,” said a Melbourne
beak to a garrulous prisoner the other day in the City
Court. “ No, sir !” indignantly retorted the prisoner,
“ In all my life I have only been conuvutted once for
being drunk.” Prisoner knew that politicians lire profes-
sional elocutionists.
They are giving Nick La Eenillade a big “ hen.” at Mel-
bourne Town Hall. Nick’s only sorrow in this world is
that corner men will call him Foolhardy.
“ Hashed if I didn’t think it was the old ‘ Octoroon.’ ”
said Boozleberg, from Melbourne, “ but they called it the
‘ Curious Crimes of Haslemere,’ or something.”
The “ Marble Man” is gone from Sydney. Never was a
show so well and so cheaply advertised. We did some of
it ourselves.
One thousand pounds has already been promised for a
Shakespeare statue at Ballarat.
London Era says that Madame Melba is rather awkward
as an actress. By the way, we don’t see Melba’s advt. in
the,Era.
Guess how many photos, of Essie Jenyns there are in
one photographer’s showcase on the Coljins-street Block.
Ten—twenty—thirty—forty— -fifty-two ! Such is the total.
And there are only five of Jennie Lee on the Block. Not
one at present of the popular Eleanor Stewart. Who's
she ? Nellie: Eleanor is her proper name.
A German specialist assorts that Patti has two extra
waives in her windpipe. She may be considered, there-
fore, a kind of extra, bivalve, a veritable oyster Patti.--
Musical Courier.
A contingent of the Brough and Bouoicault Company
leave Sydney to-day for Adelaide, where they open in
Pinero’s comedy, “ The Squire,” on lath. Miss Enson, a
newly-arrived English actress, will play the part of the
Squire.
Mrs. Bancroft’s dressing--oom, at the Prince of Wales
Theatre, used to be near the stage-door, and she would
hear strange colloquies between Cerberus and the people
he admitted. Cerberus was a certain old Kirby. Sample :
Stage-carpenter (entering): “ Nice damp spring weather,
Kirby, for the green crops.” Kirby : “ Yes, I hope it won't
bring up my three wives.”
George Gordon, now scenic artist to W., O. <fc M., Mel-
bourne and Sydney, painted the gorgeous scenery for Mrs.
Bancroft’s revival of the “ School for Scandal,” at the
Prince of Wales Theatre, London.
Buffalo Bill shows next in Paris, and contemplates a trip
to Australia. Barman often talks over a runout to Syd-
ney and Melbourne with a good show, i I is partner,
Bailey, is thoroughly acquainted with the ground, through
Cooper and Bailey's show. Gaylord and others have kept,
him well posted on how this land shapes. Other smart.
Americans have spied it out with Wilson, Chiarini, Cole.
(Sc. Something good is coming, one way or another.
Poor little “ Cocky ” Waters, of Melbourne, is dead. lie
was a walking theatrical dictionary. In his memoranda,
he had the first appearance of almost every actor, act ress,
singer, &c., that ever played in Melbourne. He was
always to be seen on Garton’s pave, talking to the pros.,
and used to write ‘ Callboy ” in the Australasian
In the production of “Joseph’s Sweetheart” Messrs.
Brough and Bouoicault have fostered native industry by
bar ing all the dresses made in Sydney.
If the home papers are to be believed Mine. Melba sets
no small value on herself. They report her to have said
publicly that “ Patti in comparison is nowhere.”
The Garrick, a new London theatre, has patent scats
which accommodate coat, hat, umbrella and programme.
I t is being remarked t hat the dinner-gong-like call-bell
at a Sydney theatre ought to be modified, out of deference
to tire feelings of the hungry among the audience.
Signor He Alba, the Italian basso profundo who married
Tuttle & Co., has been summoned in Melbourne for kicking
one of the firm’s photographic operators downstairs. The
basso showed cause and reason and the summons was
dismissed , •
A baby has been bom to Marie Tempest, the original
Dorothy, since her husband obtained a divorce, with
swinging damages, against Manager II. J. Leslie, of the
Lyric Theatre. This circumstance accounts for Marie not,
having taken the name-part in Cellier’s opera “ Doris,”
recently produced by the naughty H.J.L.
Messrs. Geo. A. Jones, Miss Alice Devenport and H.
Holland have seceded from the CoghillBros. Co. Sullivan
and Silvena are to join the forces of the latter.
“ Jimmy” Moore, brother to Maggie of that ilk, having
resigned his post as treasurer in Melbourne to W., G. and
M. has his optic on two or three likely “ specs.”
A certain theatrical business manager has suddenly-
disappeared.
Charles Fanning, the minstrel comedian, joins, the
Coghill Bros, shortly.
Billgreeno Verdi is with Seareile’s Opera Co. at Cape
Town, as is also Emily Melville. He has “ knocked ” the
Afrikanders. Vernon Reid is attached to the same
company.
Grattan Riggs has been doing “ The Irish Detective ” in
Brisbane, but neither he nor Grimshaw was able to dis-
cover who “ went through ” Hubert's overcoat for £10 and
some silver in the dressing-room. Some new styles in the
show-“ ad.” line would fill a want that is daily becoming
more oppressive.
Luscombe Searolle talks of building a new theatre at
Kimberley, South Africa.
Bland Holt and Co. are to play in Newcastle for a
month, after which they go to N.Z. and play throughout
the provinces till the end of next November.
Rumoured that Mr. Albert Norman and Miss Blanche
Lewis, both of Bland Holt’s company, are shortly to be
wedded.
Willie Warner has been presented with a purse of sove-
reigns by his friends and admirers previous to his depar-
ture for London.
W. H. Leake and Co., on tour in Victoria with “ Hans
the Boatman,” were driven back to the metropolis by
stress of weather. W.H. would like to catch the pirate
who has been presenting a mutilated edition of the play in
the N.S.W. provinces.
Miss Letty Levyne, erstwhile at Sydney Alhambra
Music Hall, is now in ’Frisco, and doing well.
The Taylor-Carington Dramatic CoV were touring the
Victorian provinces last week. Oastlemaine and Eohuca
panned out well, and return visits are to be made.
Walter Keen, the well-known Australian comic singer,
has hit them hard in America.
The latest from “Goody,” of Sydney Royal. A friend
of his has lately gone into the undertaking-business and
the other day he casually remarked to “ Goody ” that he
would be glad if G. would put something in his way. ‘ 1 1
will,” replied “Goody”—“I’ll send you down ail the
‘ dead-heads.”’
“ Baldwin’s Butterflies ” back from a Western (N.S.W.)
trip with the wreck of many townships in their swag.
What they had to leave behind of Bourke wasn’t portable.
When they “ make a section ” of the Marble Man he will
be stone-broke.
Syndicates, syndicates, syndicates, nothing but syndi-
cates ! Even Singer Sant ley is run by a syndicate.
MOUSTIQUE: A CONTRIBUTED ITEM.
The virgins of Moustique,
In dresses quite unique.
Are fetching, so to spique ;
1 think the show mouxiujue.
Notice it ?
Queen Venus, proud, but unique
Brings colour to my chique,
And all her pretty clique
Play without one mouslique.
Notice it?
But Braoey’s cast is wique;
Composer’s fault, no pique;
I do not wish to siqtie
A quarrel with Moustique.


A CHANCE FOR BARMAIDS.
mid 10 Proprietors of "WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS
* have offered a Reward, of Fifty Pounds
(JEJSO) for information that will secure convic-
tion of anyone
Filling WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS BOTTLES
with any other Liquor
and Retailing sains over -liar. The Penalty
under 3R Victoria 9 is Two Years’ Imprison-
ment.
tor (train IMsitnlor
Uiß HORSrOKI)’« ACIII WIOSI’HATR.
Pr. M. J. Caiialax, ukcVSJ.. 65 Castle-street, Netmgli,
Kug. says: I gave it in a case of softening of the brain.
The patient had much mental labour, and the whole
nervous system was shattered. The effect was marvellous.”
The Old Drover.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were making south with a large mob of fat
wethers for Melbourne market, and “ going slow, - ’
according to orders. I had only just made my
dchiit as a jumbuck-conduotor. After spending a
tretoh of nine weary months on a Loddon station,
th which time I raised myself up by strict in-
tegrity and a eon silent ions observance of duty
from the lowly position of a picker-up or shearers’
fag to an honourable and responsible billet in the
cook's hut, I was only too glad to seize the oppor-
tunity of working my passage back to civilisation.
Towards sundown of the first day after entering on
my new duties, “ Butty,” the boss, rode up to me,
and said; , .
“ Y’see that du'.ider-headfcd , with the back
like a bag of spud s —him on the bay pony ?•’
I nodded. .
“Well, young im, don’t you ever mention dog
to him, or you'll get a sore ear. He’s mad on dogs
—full up to th’ throat of dog stories, an dog
statistics, observations on th’ treatment of sick
dogs, remarks about th’ points of collies air cattle-
dogs, an’ lies about dogs he’s bad, an’ dogs lie’s
got, au’ dogs he’s never seen, lie don’t know any-
thin’ about nothin’, but dogs, an’ lie’ll talk dog till
yer stiff if y’start him Wean talk politics an’
religion, an’ horse, an’ woman's rights, an snakes,
air he’ll jes’ sit like a sun-struck Chow, an chew,
an’ chew, an’ say nothin’ but spit, but oust y mind
biiu of dogs be rips out like a mechanical organ,
air won t run down in a week. TVe all know bis
•little dart, an’ th’ boys thought it’d he’s well to
b arn y 5. If y’ mention dogs when Barky s listenin’
they'll split y‘ up, I shouldn't wonder.”
J promised to be very guarded, and became
deeply interested in the canine specialist. He was
small, old, and badly deformed ; his long, thin legs
■dangled at the sides of his wiry prad like two
lengths of canvas hose; his back was twisted into a
fearful knot, and lie sat low on bis horse, with bis
head far forward, his dull eyes fixed on the sheep,
and his nether jaw working on a quid with the
regular spasmodical grind of a machine. His face
conveyed nothing but stony stupidity; it was as
barren of expression as a pine idol. That mummy-
like immobility was positively painful.
■ 1 spoke to him. They had told me that he was
the oldest drover in Australia. I asked him if he
had been following the mutton long, thinking to
• waken his professional pride. He said “Yes,”
but bis tanned and wrinkled face lost none of its
placid idiotcy—his eyes were veiled behind a thick
him. I extolled the wethers, praised his horse,
predicted rain, talked stock and station, diggings,
sundowners, early days, horse-stealing, cattle-
dlifting, shearing, and desperately branched off
into science, art, literature, corns, sunstroke,
theology, and bush grog. He answered “Yes”
to everything with asinine complacence. That
maddening monosyllable was all my eloquence
could evoke.
I felt pained and slighted, for 1 knew Barker
swore with great fluency,-, and felt that he might
at least have had the decency to favour me with a
curse or two. T subsequently learned that Barker
only swore as a matter of business. Every drover
is tacitly expected to swear his share at the sheep
mid the dogs, and if Barker occasionally excelled
all others Tu the length and strength of his pro-
fanity he only erred on the side of duty. There
was no passion in his oaths —-they were merely
professional forms, business terms, to the full sig-
nificance of which both dog and drover must be
educated. . ...
Barker's dog was a physiological curiosity—it
was the acme of good humour personified in a
spotted dog with a stub tail. His name was Cub,
he was very old, and as homely as a used-up hair-
mat on a bush stool. He had lost one eye and the
greater part of both oars, and one of his legs was
twisted Tike a boomerang, and ho bad been trodden
on by horses and butted by pugnacious rams
during Ids long and fathful service, till he was
freckled from tip to tip with bumps and abrasions.
His teeth had pegged out. and his hair had failed
to hold on in places, but a more cheerful, sunny-
tempered or industrious dog never worked a flock.
His joyous yap was going from start out to camp-
ing. J To knew his business perfectly, too, and
w ould steam round all day, seeming to brim over
with good humour for sheep, and men, and all
concerned, and then, after supper, he would sit up
bv tin' tire, and 101 l out his tongue with such au
an-of urbane satisfaction it would do your heart
good to see him. He fixed his grotesque little
master with his solitary eye, and would beam
blandly upon him for an hour at a stretch if not
i ailed a.way to duty, and, should Barker look up,
and favour him with a fond curse or two, lie
w ould whine softly, drum the ground with his
mean old stump of a tail, and smile like a crack in
a pumpkin. Nobody could gainsay that smile—
if Cub didn't smile there’s no such thing in nature.
On the first evening, my natural diffidence with-
held me from participating in the conversation
and How of soul around the camp-fire. The un-
accustomed task of tow ing an obtuse horse suffer-
ing from asthma, and settled melancholia, had
worn upon me, and 1 was a-weary. Taking ad-
vantage of my retiring and conciliatory disposi-
tion the boss had foisted upon me an equine wonder
noted for a knack of lying down and rolling on the
rider in its moments of deep abstraction. In ad-
dition to this pleasant peculiarity the wretched
animal would not lead, but rested in the bridle
and slept placidly whilst I hauled him 15 miles,
as I preferred this alternative after attempting to
ride him and narrowly foiling his persistent en-
deavours to flatten me out. On the following day,
however, I accepted the advice of Stark Steve,
and tethered my crock to the “ambulance and
ammunition ” waggon, and, as a consequence, felt
capable of bearing a hand in the debate after
supper. I noticed that, as if by common agree-
ment, the subject of dogs was studiously avoided,
but upon any other questions the company dwelt
with considerable ardour, the conversation being
enlivened and lit up, so to speak, with most
brilliant flights of profanity, and many anecdotes
of personal adventures undimmed by the faintest
suggestion of veracity. I fell in with the pre-
vailing tone, and told a lie or two of my own,
which, I may say without egotism, excited some
demonstration of favour. Encouraged by this, I;
launched into higher flights, giving full play to
my fecund imagination, and was embellishing a.
particularly happy effort when Butty, Stark Steve,
and the facetious young man who drove the wag-
gon, suddenly uttered a unanimous exclamation of
fearful warning. Then, regarding me reproach-
fully, and swearing several curses significant of
their very proper resentment, they got up and re-
tired to the waggon.
I had broached the subject of dogs !
I glanced over at Barker. His face was strangely
animated ; he blew his “ quid ” into the fire, and,
shuffling round to where 1 lay, gripped me by the
leg to secure my presence and attention, and, re-
garding me with a beaming eye, he commenced ;
“ Seein’ how you’re interested in dogs, young
feller, me lad, I don't mind tellin’ yo about a pup
I had in—’64, named Brutus, all black with jest a
white ring on his tail an’ a catrack in his left eye
consequence of bein’ hit with a fire-stick by a feller
what broke his neck talcin’ a scrub fence, an’ serve
him right say I. Ye w’u’dn’t think t’ look et me
as I knew much about dogs, p’raps. That’s where
ye make th’ mistake. I aint much edjucation, but
I don’t crow small to no man on dogs. I can tell
what ’ails a dog blindfold, an’ I know a dog’s style
as soon as I set him., Tell ye, when a man’s been
shepherdin’ my years he’s up t’ dogs. Livin’ away
out back there, month an’ month, all by hisself
an’ th’ dogs an’ jumbucks makes him prize a pup
as es got common-sense an’ feller feelin’. Some
dogs has, some dogs hasn’t—depends on rearin’.
I’ve fetched up dogs t’ be cs full o’ sympathy es
yer own mother, an’ agen’ some men’s dogs don't
give a-cunsc. Shepherds’ life is a terrible lone-
some, an’ if yer dog isn't a cheerful sort an" geiiial
like o’nights, you'd jack-up in a month. I’ve
done it. Jest after Bpot died I went into Jack-
son’s, near (iambier there y’ know, an’ I seS : ‘ See
here, boss, Spot’s pegged an’ this here dog ye’ve
A PROMISING OUTLOOK.
MAN (with cheque, approaching pub.): “DO THEY KEEP GOOD STUPE AT THIS
HERE SHANTY?”
BUSHMAN (very drunlc and staggering) : “ THE BEST. LOOK AT ME AFTER
FOUR NOBBLERS.” (Man with cheque goes and shouts.)
give me ain't fit for no man t’live with—there's no
pleasure with him—he’s melanchblier ’n a death in
the family, an’ that surly he ain’t got_ a good
word for no one. I’m goin’t’ track ! An' I went.
But a dog that’s been brought up decent is always
decent, ’oeptin’ in bad health. I’ve watched ’em
narrer fer forty-five years an’ can bet on it.
“Well, this Jacko what I’m goin’ t’ tell ye
about he was the reasonablist animal, an’ so sunny.
He was a cattle-dog proper, but bein’willin’t’
please an’ not perticular he worked sheep just’s
ready. Nothin’ he wouldn’t a done if y’ was
anxious an’ treated him with respect. ’Bout so
high, an’ a sort o’ tan colour. Not pure bred, he
wasn't, but that ain’t agen him—more credit fer
bein’ a good dog, don’t y’ think ? I was shep-
herdin’ fer M‘Mooney—‘Old Salt-Horse,’ his
other name—NeW South Wales side, an’was there
a good stretch. Th’ bound ary-rider ’ud look a
feller up ’casionally an’ th' rouseabout showed in
w ith rations once ’n a while, but most o’ th’ time
there we was alone, mean’ Jacko —sheep don’t
count—meypitohin’ t’ him th’ awfnllest lies, an’
him takin’ it all in solemn’s a mopoke, es if we was
a church meetiu' discussin’ a important point. He
liked t’ have me jawin’, ’specially of nights, when
he’d come into th’ hut an’ spread afore th’ fire an’
peer at me with his eyes half shut, ’tentive as
could be, signifyin’ bis ’predation iu th’intervals
by dustin’ with his tail and barkin’ low an’ gen-
teel like. D’ye know he had me off b’ heart ’fore
we ivas acquainted two months. He couldn’t help
it, studyin' me day an" night so close an’ anxious.
Yes, boy, he had my reckonin’ es near es damn it.
Every look was a straight tip t’ him.
“Whisky’s my liquor—Scotch. Them days T
was' cuslouicd Phare a bottle by me, an’ when it
ran out p'raps' T was a little snake-headed air
doiv u in th’ jaw an’ didn't behave towards that
dog es 1 should’ve —not keepin’ up a conversation,
hut skulkin’ about in th’ sulks, payin’ no notice to
his remarks, an’ hurlin’ his feclin’s where they
was tenderest. Well, Jacko come to know that
when the spirits was low it was ditto with me, an
he’d watch me bull th’ bottle with a tear in his
eye an’ a few whines signifyin’ his sympathy an
regret, guessing well enough we was in fer a spell
o’ th’ miserables.
“ One day I was took bad —fearful bad, an next
day I was took worse. Whisky hadn’t no effect,
an’l jest crawled about like a sick hen, nearly
peggin’ out every hour. Jacko couldn t tell what
was up, he scarcely took his eye off me, an when
th’ third mornin’come, an’ I couldn’t turn out, he
put his cold nose up on my pillow, an’ whined like
a fool. Then he seemed to be struck sudden, an
he cut out, am’ went tearin’ over th’ hill full butt,
I could spot him through th’ winder. It was a
devil of a day-—rain, an’ thunder, an’ wind was
ragin’ ’round. Night came, but Jacko didn t,
I was feel in’ uneasy, thinkin’ he’d got full up o
such a doleful sliop an’ cut an’ run for good, when
I heard him scratchin’ fer th’ string of th’ latch.
There was a good fire on, an’ after he’d opened the
door I sees him pick up somethin’ an’ trot in. He
was the miserablest dog to look at ever es was, drip-
pin’ with wet, and splashed with blood and mud.
His side was ripped, an’ one leg was gone bung,
an’ th’ foam on his jaws was red. He came 'right
up, an’dropped somethin’ on my bunk. , then,
after caperin’ about a bit full of rejoicive, like, he
crept up to the fire an’ fell to lickin’ his wounds.
“What d’ye think he’d brought me? What
d’ye think he’d travelled —13 miles there, 13 miles
back—26 miles, across country, through creeks an
scrub, an’ wind an’ rain, t’ get fer a ugly, hump-
backed, old gonoff like me? Not medernes, or
jelly, or such slush. No, sir, he’d too much sense.
It was ivhisky, half a bottle of Old Highland-
real stingo! An’ never cost a copper. Jacko’d
been with me to Easy’s pub. on th’ Piper road two
or three ’casions, an’ must ’a’ noticed that I aims
fetched away a bottle or two, an’ he went straight
there, watched his chance, snavelled th’ licker, an'*
parried it 13 good miles agin all odds, thinkin’ it
w'as th’ want of a nip as ud fetched me down.
There’s sagacity an’—an’ Christian feelin’! Poor
Jackb ! he got killed with a tree failin’ on him a
year after, an’ I put a black band on me hat.
You’d V done it if you’d a lost a dog like Jacko ;
eh? Wouldn’t ye? Out o’respect like.
“ ’Shh, sit still! I had another dog ye’d be glad
t’ hear about, I know, ’cause of his peculiar
notions, an’ th’ reg’lar set he had on any man as
carried a swag.”
I sat still and listened, and for hours the old
man continued his anecdotes in the same strangely-
animated strain. Steve came to relieve his watch,
but Barky talked on, and was as full of enthu-
siasm, and seemed so impressed with the thrilling
interest of his narrative and the superhuman
sagacity of his dogs that I had not the heart to
tear myself away. This misshapen little drover
was a complete encyclopaedia of the ills to which
dogs are heir, their treatment and cure. He told
how he had doctored Lion, or Prince, or Badger,
much as fond mothers love to expatiate on the
difficulties they have experienced in battling with
scarlatina, scarlet-fever, measles, and the multi-
farious ailments that beset man in his earliest
stages. He dwelt on the merest trifles with child-
ish zeal, and his intense earnestness in relating
instances of canine affection and intelligence
manifested his deep conviction that dogs were
endowed with all the virtues and attributes of
human beings. Throughout it all Cub sat before
him, panting excitedly, his solitary eye beaming
with interest —an intelligent and appreciative
auditor. Toward day-break 1 fell asleep. Y lieu
I awoke again Hie billy was boiling, and Barky
• war frying bacon, and gazing stolidly at the bub-
bling fat. Presently he caught my eye, Ids face
brightened, and he started off abruptly : -
“ Well, y’ know that there Pido, he wasn’t no
teetotal dog, he wasn’t : he’d drink Ids drop o’
whisky, sociable-like, an’ be no worse for it. One
night ”
I could stand it no longer and fled to the creek.
Barky was two days running down. He would
ride up to my side at every opportunity, and con-
tinue his solitary theme, but gradually he became
spasmodic and incoherent, and at length shutoff
with a snap, and relapsed into the dull-eyed taci-
turn automaton.
I never saw the old drover again. Two years
later, when acting in the honourable capacity of
commercial reporter on a metropolitan daily, I
met “ Butty,” and, after mutual congratulations
and a drop of something wet, ventured to inquire
after the deformed little one.
“ Dead.”
“Dead?”
“ Yes, the old fool ! That dog of his, Cub, you
know, got snagged in the Goulbum. The river
was runnin’ high, but Barky went in after him,
an’ before we could say Jack Robinson they both
was whipped under. Fill up agon, miss.”
Tfc is estimated that £20,000,000 of British
capital has gone into Transvaal mines.
This is how whales carry on near Tasmania
according to the Tasmanian Nkws :
Messrs. M'Kenna and Wise report that they sighted a
large whale rounding Brown Mount in a li'shing-boat
yesterday.
The papers are saying that Kawiti, the
recently-defunct Maori chief, was a convert to
Mormonism. This is the way a man’s character is
filched away. Kawiti only kept a well-stocked
larder.
What is this we hear of a judicial func-
tionary one day making an unsuccessful attempt
to borrow some money from a financial agent, and
the next day officially “slating” the man who
wouldn’t trust him ?
In a complimentary paragraph referring to
the Premier, a Melbourne paper comes out with
the assertion that “The Hon. Duncan Gillies is
universally suspected.” “ Respected” was meant,
but the compositor had a conscience.
Sneak-thief (who has just deciphered the
name on the door plate) : “Ma’am, your husband,
Mr. Branson, sent me for his overcoat.” _ Mrs.
Branson; “ Oh, he did, eh ? Well, ay he’s been
dead ten years, I had thought he’d send for his
linen-duster.” — Exchange.
ASoutlyVustralianfriend, “Arthur B. (J.,”
asks for information about .las. Galloway, “an
old Chartist who began the Eight Hour Movement
in Melbourne.” Calloway was only a young man.
He died at 32. There is a worthy monument to
him in the Melbourne cemetery. His claim as
founder of the Eight Hours is disputed by some
partisans of a veteran brother mason. We have
seen it stated lately that this man is alive. The
point is worth clearing up by an authoritative and
final dictum from the Masons’ Society. Callant
old Ben Douglass, still in Melbourne, deserves
notice as an Eight Hours founder. There are
several others equally worthy. Our correspondent
asks for a history of the Eight Hours' Movement.
We regret there is none to speak of. The enquirer
should write to the secretary, Melbourne Trades’
Hall, or to the secretary of Masons’ Society, same
address.
Dear Bulletin, — A man told urn 1 had
some “ mag ” about every blessed thing. I have.
Now for the Marble Man. Would any scientist of
cither party (fossil or facile) like to see a pine tree,
a sucker, growing from a petrified log, evidently of
the same tree? If so, let them communicate with
Mr. H. J. M‘Gooey, whom T consider the best
bush naturalist in Australia. He got it near
Dubbo, being laid on (bullocky slang) by some
teamsters. I could also find it again, I think.
Have any of these scientists seen nests full of eggs
petrified by, immersion in a calcareous stream in
Derbyshire? The eggs increase slightly m size
either by incrustation or efflorescence; and so
would Sala’s man’s head. This puts me in mind
that in Douglas church-yard, in Scotland, the skull
of one Irvine is shown with pride as an extraor-
dinarily largo one. My 71 hat is far too big for it,
but it looks grand beside some others, probably
those of Armstrongs, Grahams, or Irvines ; they
were all cattle-thieves. The marble-man has
somehow or other brought me on to Douglas
Church, in whose porch more successful and
disastrous assignations have been made than in
the shadow of any other tabernacle of the Lord.
And now to conclude (I am again a probationer in
Douglas Kirk), viewing the photo, in The Bul-
letin, I am struck by a queer resemblance of the
Orange lithanthrope to the mummies of Leti and
Raineses, the Pharoahs. The only flaws T could
perceive were the too conspicuous parallelism of
the ribs and the policeman-like beetle-crusher at
the end of the nearest leg, but that might have
been a deception caused by the foreshortening or
focussing.— Scotty the Wkjnklek.
The judicial capers of Judge Williams, of
Victoria, in the Cutler case, are by no means the
first of the high jinks that have been cut by that
legal combination of over-conscientiousness and
super-sensitiveness. Over-conscientiousness seem-
ingly led the Judge, then newly elevated to the
Bench, some eight years ago to inflict a sentence
of 14 years’ penal servitude on Captain Henderson,
who was found guilty of having stolen the
Ferret, a steamer belonging to the Highland
Railway Company in Scotland. The fraud
was an extraordinarily ingenious one throughout.
After Henderson was committed for trial Mr.
Hartley Williams, Q.C., was retained for his
defence, but in the interval between the committal
and the trial that gentleman was promoted to the
Bench, with this important consequence to Hen-
derson that he had to be tried instead, of being
defended, by Williams, (J.C. The severity of the
sentence provoked comment at the time, and it
was roundly asserted that, fearful of being suspected
of improper partiality to his whilom client if he
inflicted a moderate sentence, the newly-fledged
Judge unconsciously flew to the opposite extreme
and imposed the extremes! penalty the law per-
mitted —which was very rough on the prisoner. This
high-minded proceeding was still further accentu-
ated when shortly afterwards his super-sensitive-
ness prompted him to inflict a ridiculously dispro-
portionate sentence upon a “young man from the
country” who wound up a grand chavoo by cut-
ting his sweetheart’s throat for jilting him. It
was three years this joker got, and the sympathetic
Judge, in passing sentence, weepingly tru-ted that
the interesting subject of his remarks would take
advantage of the opportunity afforded him by his
enforced retirement from public life, and at the
end of his term emerge an ornament*#?; society.
By the way, the young lady whose throat was cut
by her loving sweetheart has, after a most’ tempes-
tuous career, got married and “ settled down ” in
Sydney.


Sweet Boronia, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Ml'ljixtiijuia. ” Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. (id.,
ss. and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
1 I«A,NCIS LUNGMt>RK, 138 Bourke-st., East,
Melbourne.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Jh'C.ss suits for sale or lure. Letters promptly
attended to by QU ITT lON TON BROS., 11l
Russell street, M.ELBOURN 10,
John JVrEwan & Co.,
auction cii its,
X, 3XT X> A GKE3 3ST *37 IS,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-pago List Country Properties, Farms, Crazing
Propertied, &c., &o.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &e.
Printed List Businesses for Sale issued Wally.
All Lists posted Fkke on application^
POLITICAL POINTS
Ringnose Wise says corruption is unknown
in the Australian Legislatures. Next!
India is to have the cheapest postage in
the world. Earthing post-cards are to be intro-
duced.
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners have
already got rid of about 200 old hands, and have
taken on about 21 “now-chums.”
The Portuguese arc giving trouble at
Dolagoa B iv. There is a proverb—“ Take every-
thing that is good from a Spaniard and what is
left is Portuguese.”
At one of the leading Hobart churches
lately they had “O Lord, oar Governor,” for the
anthem when Bis Excellency, Sir Robert
Hamilton and suite attended the church.
Hon. John Lackey, M.L.0., who opposes
payment of members, was for upwards of four
years N.S.W. Minister for Works, and regularly
drew the large salary attached to the office.
Mr. John Davie's, C.M.G., M.L.C., is about
to bring an action against the N.S.W. Government
for malicious prosecution. The damages claimed
will probably be set down at a very large amount.
Alderman George Anderson, the Foreign-
trade candidate for Redfern, gained his experience
of public life as a “number av the fooree.” From
this early training he ought to go for “pro-
tection.”
It is a treat to see plain, practical, clear-
headed, self-made, little “.lack” Macrossan stall I
tip to the lofty lawyer Griffith in the Queen flan.l
Assembly and wash the nisi prim starch oat of
that dignitary.
Brewer Toohey, ALP., at a meeting of
Sydney licensed victuallers recently, said that a
new spirit has risen up amongst them. What
name, Toohey? We are very keen for whisky-
advertisements just now.
The late John Sutherland, M.P., has many
thousands of friends at Redfern. What do they
think of Parkes, the head of the N.S.W. Foreign-
trade party, giving a dinner on the day and at the
very hour of the dead man’s funeral ?
In the front ranks, as usual. Kiuuaird
Rose, the big-bearded editor of Brisbane Courier
(Queensland's Argus !) speaks out for fair play for
Dillon and the cause he voices. This has made
the local Balfonrism (imported) mad with rancour.
Hayti has had so many revolutions that it
lias on hand a tremendous stock of postage-stamps
bearing the head of deposed Presidents. I t has
just been decided to use these, but an edict has
been issued commanding that they be affixed
“ wrong side up.”
£16,000 has been paid by the N.S.W.
(rovernment for the Evans Combination Truck.
Mr. Evans held the post of goods-snperinteudent
on the N.S.W. Government railways while he was
perfecting this truck, if it be perfect, and is brother-
in-law to the present Minister tor Mines.
An American paper says that the result of
the Samoan Conference has : taught England the
useful lesson that honesty is the best policy, and
that she has lost her hold upon the Australasian
colonies, which are destined in the near future to
bo attached more closely in sympathy and interest
the United States.
Points of Australian Federation ; One
President, One Capital (neither Melbourne nor
Sydney), One Army in one Uniform, One Navy,
One Legislature, One Law, complete and supreme
in Australia, One Land System, Entire Customs
Union, One Flag,,and no mongrels. (One Paper,
of course—Ahem !)
An English Imperialistic print wants in-
creased facilities given to young Australians- to
enter the British Navy as cadets, and adds, “tho
Navy has a peculiar influence on the working out
of tho idea of Imperial Federation.” In other
words, he wants Australia to swap her birthright
for a few brass buttons !
An antiquated member of the N.S.W.
Upper House, in opposing the Payment of Mem-
bers Bill, said, “ the best thing for a young man
to do was to attend to his own business and when
in a position to attend to public business then let
him come forward.” Just so ! And it’s this sort
of thing that makes the Second Chamber a nest of
owls ,; .
In February, 1834, Mr. O’Connell ob-
tained the appointment of a select committee to
inquire into the conduct of Baron Smith as a
judge, one of the chief charges being his persisting
to sit past midnight. What other precedent is re-
quired with respect to Mr. Windeyer? They
"•’ore more enlightened in England 54 years ago
than they are in Botany Bay to-day.
Britain’s still mistress of the sea,
At at Lloyds in Naval art —
Witness the Cal-li-o-pe,
And taut and saucy Dart.
Wc don't grudge the Old Gal the ocean, if she'll
give us our little bit o’ land.
At Wollongong (N.S.W.) Police-court, a
miner was, on 4th July, sent to gaol for a month
for absconding from the service of the Southern
Coal Company. Is this a survival of the time
a hundred years ago—when miners were practically
slaves ? Why do we never hear of an employer
who bankrupts and throws hundreds of men out
of employment getting 25 lashes and ten years
oenal servitude?
Sydney E. News asked the Redfern
electors “ to make a note of this wonderful growth
under Freetrade. Ten years ago in N.S. W. we
posted 14,500,000 letters, but last year wc increased
the total to just upon 49,000,000.” They were
mostly penny duns with “Dr. to” at top, “To
Account Rendered” in the middle, and “A
Cheque will oblige ” at the end. Figures will
prove anything.
As already stated, the General Gordon
statue unveiling in Melbourne was a shocking
fizzle. One Wmtle writes to the local Daily
Telegraph with weeps over the irreverence of
Young Australia. Ou all hands ho heard gibes
and sarcasms. When “ God Save the Queen ”
was played nine-tenths kept their hats on. This
is abominable, Mr. Editor, and, sir, we are all
coing poast ha-a-ste to destruction!
General Cluseret, the old Commune leader,
declares that the panacea for the redundant
European armies is to corrupt the soldiers—as the
tyrants would say. It will bo the case over again
as in the French Revolution, when the soldiers
refused to fire ou the people, and turned their guns
against tyrants themselves. Forty per cent, of
the Berlin voters are Socialists. I nto their hands
the Government places rlfl.es ! What infatuation!
Dear Bulletin’, — Surely a bettor Demo-
cratic candidate than the miserable trimmer,
Schey, could have been selected for Redfern!
Why did not the Dibbs party put forward Mr.
Edward Combes V It is true that Mr. Combes is
so unfortunate asjto be a C.M.G., but he is a good
Protectionist and an able man. Have the National
Party leaders decided to smile upon no man who
would be likely to compete with them for office ? -
Yours truly, A. Shaw.
Macaulay tolls ns that while the Stuarts
had a chance of returning to the throne the Scotch
laird, though he supported the House of Hanover
himself, took care that his sou should be in favour
with the Pretender. By this means the estate was
sure to remain in the family. This cannot be the
reason which induces a certain N.S. W. politician
who “travels” on the Orange Vote to keep his
children at a convent-school, while he himself wor-
ships at the shrine of the Yellow Pup.
Australian dailies arc playing it down very
low with the Clan-Na-Gael, an organisation which
seems to be always murdering a man (by cable)
one day in order that he may turn up alive and
well the day following. The first cable heading
runs “ Another Murder by the Clan-Na-Gael,”
and the second runs “ The Suspected Murder by
the Clan-Na-Gael,” while the further information
that there never was a murder at all is disclosed
in an accidental and unpretentious manner indicat-
ing that the gory deed ought to have been com-
mitted, and the editor can’t imagine why it wasn’t.
A YOUTHFUL WOULD-BE SUICIDE.
BEAK: “WELL, MY BOY, WHY DID YOU TRY TO KILL YOURSELF?
BOY: “I THOUGHT TO MAKE ANOTHER ’ORBIBLETRAGEDY SOS PARKE
MIGHT GO TO MY FUNERAL.”
Some idea of how “black labour” is
worked in Queensland may be formed from th ■
fact that on Ist January, 1880, it was estimated
that there were in Queensland 7580 Pacific
Islanders, including “boys,” at work, “boys”
exempt, and “ boys ” who are “ walking about. ” In
1888, a total sum of £12,435 4s. lOd. was paid into
the savings banks by Kanakas, while £12,413 was
drawn out. On 31st December, 3888, the total
deposits to the-credit of Polynesians amounted to
£17,885 18s. 7d.
A-choice piece of Yankee blow ;
We have defeated the Panama scheme and commenced
the Nicaragua'- Canal. We have bested Bismarck and
driven him clean out of Samoa. Wo hold and mean t o
keep Behring's Sea. The English colonies in the South
Pacific are.with us, as their Press has abundantly shown.
Our reciprocity treaty is the practical annexation of
Hawaii. These things are but a beginning. We shall not
stay our hand until we have conquered the entire trade
and commerce of the Western hemisphere, and made the
Pacific Ocean virtually an American lake.
What will Australia bo doing all the while the
U.S. are giving a Yankee twang to the Pacific
Ocean ?
Premier Pa ekes is, of opinion that “the
rowdyism of elections the larrikin element -
would shrink back from a lady recording her vote. ’
Should Parkes live to see female suffrage, what
epithets- will be use to describe the women who
differ from him ? The men are “dogs,” “ scum,''
“poodle-heads,” “ withered tarantulas,” ike. ; we
question if he will treat the women one whit more
tenderly. Anyhow, we trust that he will not
regale female electors with his “ monkey story,”
nor talk largely to them of the deeds lie intends to
perform up to the age of 120., The larrikin ou the
hustings is more disgusting, because more elevated,
than the larrikin m the crowd ; and that, we
believe is the moral of Parkes’ historic monkey
story.
Personal Items.
Tennyson has rallied, but the end cannot
bo far oil'.
The maternal grandfather of Explorer
Stanley was a J ew.
A very rich Australian, recently deceased,
has, wc hear, left his wite £2 a week.
G. R. Sims says it pays better to write one
successful play than ten successful novels.
In England they accuse Madame Melba of
having “a very marked Australian accent.”
‘‘The Prince of Wales is a bad seaman.”
We are envious to know what lie is good for.
Colonel Softgoods Sargood carries a pair of
blunt scissors in his waistcoat pocket. Force of
habit !
Boulanger is a most theatrical humbug.
He gives his admirers his left hand to shake in-
stead of his right.
Pensioner Childers, who left. Victoria, 32
years ago, is about to re-visit the scene of his early
political labours.
Mr. Guinness, the newly-appointed Crown
Solicitor of Victoria, was formerly associate to the
late Judge Fellow's.
Gniseppe Sain, of Cow Flat, figures among
the list of bankrupts. Cause of insolvency—
Petrification of business.
Lord James Douglas, brother of the
Marquis of Queensberry, has been “warned” olf
the Hnglish turf for welshing.
Matt. O Shanassy, of Melbourne, “isbeing
lionised in London as a sample of w hat Australia
can produce in the way of men. ”
Millionaire Watson did not die at San
Francisco as alleged. He landed in Sydney in a
very feeble condition and died at Wavevley.
Mrs. Gladstone has celebrated all her
77 birthdays at the same place Ha w arden Castle.
She was born there and inherited the estate from
her father.
Queen Victoria dines at 9 o'clock nightly,
and rushes through the meal from soup tn iee-
pudding in less than half-aii-hour. So says a very
fashionable paper.
Mr. W estgarth, the London financier, was
a member of tie- N.S.W. Legislature in 1850.
Parkes reported one of his election speeches at
Melbourne in IST).
At Ballarat (Vic.) a British peer lias just
received two years in gaol for forgery. An here-
ditary aristocracy is gradually being billeted upon
the people of Australia.
The Autocrat of Germany has gone fishing.
As the cable has, at sundry times, told ns that he
had decided to go fishing, and was actually fishing
■well, we ni'-’iiiion it once again.'
The Shah has a 12 inch globe in bis palace
at Teheran upon which the parts of the world arc
let out in jewels of various colours- England with
rubies, India with dianam/ls, and the sea with
emeralds. Jamberoo is.set in pearls.
The Duke of Portland is married. They
wanted to cutch him for one of the Royal Family.
■No, thanks. So did the Queen,' they say, want to
marry Prince Leopold to a Miss Baring. Him
turned up her aristocratic nose too.
Mr. Charles Lyne is to write a biography
of Sir Henry Barken, who lias entrusted him with
all the necessary ‘‘paper..” Sir Henry himself, as
mentioned in The Bii.i.ktin some time ago,
threatens a “Political History of N.S. Wales.”
Berry Wall, for years king of the New
Work dudes, has been deposed by a young fellow
named Hastings, commonly known in the Empire
City as “Lord Hastings.” Bangles, bracelets, a
tine physique, and no brains are bis characteris-
tics.
The degeneracy of the once Republican
Mr. Joe Chamberlain is said to date from the time
when the Prince of Wales went to stay with him
and redeemed him for ever from the error of Ins
ways by appearing arm-in-arm with him, cigar in
mouth, arcades umbo before all the town.
Sydney E. News is “ pleased to learn that
£lOOO has been subscribed towards the Sutherland
memorial and hopes' the sum will reach £10,000.”
-Mr. John Sutherland was one of the trustees of
the will of the late Samuel Bennett, founder of
the E. News, but why should the testimonial
fund reach £lO,OOO ?
Henderson Afrieanus is a Freemason of
M 2 years’ standing. He is a good shorthand-writer,
and would have got a payable press position but for
the “ Haply for lam black- ” (Othello). So he is
only a Black Cromwell. This worthy and un-
assuming - man, the industrious poor newspaper
hawker, is apt to be misunderstood out of Mel-
bourne.
Tennyson and Carlyle once spent .* whole
evening in the house of the Sage of Chelsea, en-
veloped in a cloud of tobacco-smoke, without
exchanging a worth When the Laureate rose to
go the Sage accompanied him to the door, shook
hands warmly, and said, “Eh, rnon, Tennyson,
we have had a grand uieht together. Come back
again soon.”
Peter Jackson, with Naughton and Sam
Fitzpatrick—all pugilists—are on the show through
the principal American cities oil their way East.
The S.P. Newsletter says,Peter is to get 10,000.
dollars for a fortnight at the Westminster Aqua-
rium. Nearly as good as a protege of the N.S. W.
Labour Commission, with the certainty of meeting
/Tummy and a fellowship of the Colonial Institute
thrown in.
When the American Duchess of .Marl-
borough went to the Queen's drawing-room, she,
held out her hand, to-the Prince and Princess of
W -les. In other circumstances they would pfo-
bably 1 lave thrown etiquette to the winds and
relieved tno awkwardness of the moment by
frankly accepting the hand-shake ; but in the pres-
ence of the Quei n they dared not do so.
Archibald Mcst-on and party are, under Go-
vernment orders, climbing Bellendeii Ker. a
reasonably tall hillock in the neighbourhood of
Cairns "(Q.) Arch, is a naturalist," botanist,
ornithologist, shoot ist, and iisiiist indeed almost
every sort of ‘ ist” to bo found in the dictionary.
Cveat things arc expected of him in the nay of
discovery of fa nan, it ora and fiction.
The Marquis' tie Lenvilie, says it London
paper, has had a gold medal struck with the in-
scription —British Seamanship and Captain
11. C. Kane, of Her Majesty’s ship Calliope.
Prom an admirer, the Marquis do Lenvilie.” l)e
Lenvilie is the advertising person who tried to
marry Mrs. Prank Leslie. Why doesn't Garden
Honey get a medal struck for Captain Kane?
Harry Hamilton, the Tasmanian Go-
vernor's eldest son, is a good looking, merry, and
amusing fellow, so great a favourite with the girls
that his long-headed mother sent him off to the
Gulf of Carpentaria to look, for diamonds! Alan
Hamilton, the second boy, is a morose, surly look-
ing individual who seldom says anything to any-
body—possibly because be has nothing to say.
The will of the late Chief Justice of Vic-
toria (Sir Win. Stawell) is simplicity itself. It is
written on a sheet of note-paper and is extremely
brief. “ This is my will. I give all my property,
both, real and personal, trust estates alone ex-
cepted, to my dear wife Mary, whom I appoint
executrix and guardian of my children. I revoke
all previous walls.” The estate is under £15,000,
r l he Duke of Edinburgh has been charging
the officers of the garrison at Gibraltar for the
sheep with which he voluntarily supplied their
mess and of whose mutton he largely partook. If
the money thus received was placed to the credit
of the ship he was strictly honest, if mean, in so
acting; if, on the other hand, it went to his own
private account, why then the transaction has a
C.M.G.-ish flavour that will endear it to all
“ loyal ” Australians.
The Prince of Wales recently sent a mes-
sage to members of the Marlborough House set
that he would wear a low-crowned hat at a certain
race meeting. Another story is told bearing on
lus autocracy in the matter of male attire. Sonic
time ago a certain tailor happened to please him
greatly, and this tailor he recommended right and
left. One man alone of those sent by the Prince
has given the lucky tailor a standing order for a
new dress-suit each month !
Some Jew months ago the sunbright land of
New South Wales was bein'soned by a visit from
that fussy little sycophant of South Australia-,
Chief Justice Way, wdio came several hundred
miles in his capacity of chief-deputy bottle-washer
of the Australian Freemasons to assist in the in-
stallation of the Baron as Grand Panjnndrnm of
that august body. Genial old Dr. Cockbnni, of
Adelaide, was asked by a mutual friend how Way
bad got along. “ Oh, the usual style,” he replied,
“ you know Way’s little way. He gave ’em butter
o.i a lordly dish.”


jr/}ff a ? 7^r
IrKhmay #/
AfcT-aofc’^7#
c/if a ' Ml 1 . I
7 JR
'Joull;
V. > jigs*’ Ml
h/ysf, /ycscQucrmM
J ouum ifj
k
5e A cLa
ifli!
farm 0/y/#//p/-y &/(/ /y rfytti/eu/a
attoosrfrpAty*?, 7 ws*S&
/is/tc/y//- / AAt a sy/c/t tyy<S6Jf~ /"
John JSul l -'[aaj j piY of
_BU J— “
London, Monday Night.—Mr. B Tl. Wise,
of New South Wales, contributes an inter-
esting article this month on 4
Politics ‘ to Macmillan’s MaOaZinb.
Mr, Wise takes an optimistic view of the
future of Australian politics, and eulogises
the services of Sir. Henry Parkos, Premier of
New South Wales, of Mr. Duncan Gillies,
Premier of Victoria; of Mr. Alfred Dcakin,
Chief Secretary. ■of -Victoria; and of Mr.
Edmund Barton, M.L.C., of New South
Wales.
In referring to the members of the various
Australian Parliaments, Mr. Wise declares
that they arc politically pure and that cor-
ruption is unknown among thorn. He also
assorts that the disorderly members of
colonial Parliaments are generally Irish re-
presentatives of Irish constituencies.
Going further into detail with respect to
the Irish vote, Mr. Wise says that in New
South Wales it is in favour of Protection,
in Victoria it is given in support of tho
publicans, and in Queensland it is recorded
for nationalism. In any case, however, Mr.
Wise states that the Irish vote will generally
be found recordfd against the existing
Government.
On the question of education in tho
colonies Mr Wise affirms that tho object of
the Roman Catholic priesthood is to secure
the control of tho public schools.
He also asserts that the lay members of
fhc Roman Catholic body seek to monopolise
the public offices, and that five-sixths of the
''billet-hunters" to be found in the colonics
are Irish Roman Catholics.
Mr Wise gives quotations from articles
which have appeared in the Melbourne Auß
to prove that the Roman Catholic Ch"t ‘b ’"
Australia is a political orpof ’w* ! '
Wise's Article.


di. h
The Divine Right to Bleed.
(AN OBJECT LESSON FOR YOUNG AUSTRALIA.)
BRITANNIA: “IT IS A RATHER PLEASANT SENSATION WHEN YOU GET SUED TO IT AS YOU WILL FIND WHEN YOU COME TO SHARE IN
THE ‘GLORIES OE EMPIRE.’”


“HOG’S HEAD” it HA* I)
rui ME rOIIK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
E. B. WHEELED & CO.,
-05 OtAKKXCK STKEET,
DEPOSIT and DISCOUNT
62 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Arcade).
Deposits received and Interest allowed as follows
3 Years 10 per cent.
12 Months 9 per cent.
0 Months ... ... S per cent.
3 Months ... ... 0 per cent.
All customary banking business transacted.
Communications to be addressed to
H. LIKELY, Manager,
H
365
ss>
George Street, SYDNEY,
Also “nd e S»ti^ a Ori tBinW * 7 ’ E N rd ’ U f e |f r T ieh ’ E °, niSCl f’ Blu ‘ ta "- C ' lllri ’ »«>•«
W.T. *-•»» and Eatey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
Oarmbecu Church, Port Stephens, N.S. W.,
has, wc read, been renovated and re-opened under
the auspices of Mr. R. H. D. White, M.L.C.
The church is situated near the residence of Mr.
White aforesaid, and the transposition of the
name was, we are told, “ made in compliment to
one of the principal directors of the Australian
Agricultural Society, John Abel Smith, of the
firm of Smith, Payne and Smith, the eminent
bankers of London, a branch of whose family
claims the parentage of the present) Governor of
N.S. Wales, Lord Carrington. This is simply
beautiful calling a chinch “Carrington” as a
mark of respect for Smith. Everything is
“Carrington” now-a-days. Once a public-house
was the Rise and Shine, or the Diggers’ Arms;
now it is the “Carrington Hotel.” Once there
was iu N.S. Wales a place called Bullock Island;
now it is the municipality of Carrington. The
birds of the air sing Carrington, the pigs squeak
Carrington, and the dogs call out Carrington with
a loud voice. The churches are being named
Carrington. By-aud-bye the Almighty will be
named Carrington.
* * *
The Prahran (Melb.) Bench inflicted a £lO
hue upon a young man named Cupid, for using
disgusting language iu the presence of ladies.—
The deceased Sandhurst millionaire, Mr.
J. B. Watson, dues not appear to have quite
forgiven his daughter for marrying Mr. “Billy”
Murdoch, the popular cricketer. He leaves her
£6OO a-year until her husband’s death and £lOOO
a-year afterwards, and excludes her from the final
distribution, although her children will be allowed
to share. Mr. Watson’s daughter, Mrs. M. D.
M’Eaeharn, is, on the other hand, given £2OOO a-
yearfor life and her share in the final distribution.
The testator's unmarried daughters each receive
£BOO a-year till they attain the age of 21 and £2OOO
a-year afterwards. After paying annuities to
his children the residue of his estate is to accumu-
late for 20 years, when there is to be a realisation
and distribution amongst his children and grand-
children. Air. Watson’s estate in Victoria alone
amounts to a million.
* * *
There are wounds into which we must
keep on rubbing the salt. Lord Dudley, the hero
of the gambling-bells, w as invited to the Bench,
beside police-magistrate Panton—
My excellent good friend Hombavdos--
Bombardos—l’ortagues—Hoiiibai-dfos—Porlagues
To help to hear the ease of blackguard Beerthirst
and (comparative) gentleman Sutton. Dudley sat
on the Melbourne District Court Bench as a right!
His proper name is William Humble Ward. Age
22, and at 20 he was a full-fledged Melbourne
beak. He is patron of only thirteen livings. The
motto of his coat of arms is “ Comine jc fus,” not
“ Comme il faut.” The motto means “As I
was.” Two angels appropriately support the
young vagabond’s escutcheon, and lie has, so far,
hundreds of thousands of pounds to squander in
gambling. Consider that, Dr. Bevan, you who
are going to lecture on “Labour’s Fair Share.”
Debrett's peerage is candid sometimes. Review-
ing Lord Dudley's “predecessors,” it mentions
that the sixth Lord Dudley “ having suffered great
pecuniary losses by the machinations of usurers,
eventually lost Dudley Castle, and for many
years subsisted on the charity of friends.” Loafer
and pauper, too ! “He was styled Lord Quon-
dam.” Now came in the Humble Ward. He was
a rich goldsmith, jeweller to Charles 1., and
married into the Dudleys. Before this, however,
another Dudley had “ lavished his patrimony in
profligacy.” It's in the blood.
d he printed progiammc or “order of ser-
vice ’ at the United Friendly Societies’ church
parade, held at the Tow n Hall of the holy city of
Adelaide on the 23rd of last month, “in the .Pre-
sence of His Excellency the Governor ,(we quote
literally), began with the hymn “All people that
on earth do dwell sing to the Lord ” (apparently,
on tins occasion, Lord Kin tore) “with cheerful,
voice/’ The, Lord's Prayer followed, and at the
end of the bill was printed, in black letters, this
loyal announcement!-
“The congregation is r quested to lie upstanding
while His Excellency a id Suite retire.”
This is about the lowest depth of abasement yet
reached even by the parsons. The angels will all
*be upstanding ” when Kintorc marches into
Heaven, don't you think ?
Ninety per cent, of the “ girls ” in Hobart
“ high society ” are over 30, and have been “ out ”
nearly half their lives, and still the hero of their
dreams is just as far off as the proverbial,. carrot
from the donkey’s nose. Half the “ engagements ”
existing in Hobart are to young clerks whoso
salaries range from £GO to £lOO a year. Even if
the butchers and bakers are prepared to go in fer
“ time-payment ” we don't quite see how these
“ shows ” are going to be run.
The noble army of spinsters aforesaid have just
gone in for an Ambulance Corps under the pre-
sidentship of Lady Hamilton. As they are never
likely to be mixed up -either in an active or in a
passive sense—with any other sort of ‘‘nursing”
they are just as well at that as at anything else.
*## ' s
British Church of England Emigration
Society is not, as would appear on first sight, an
endeavour on the part of Downing-street to fix
the Church of England permanently on our'
shores, but is a movement in English clerical
circles to ship abroad good, useful domestics at re-
duced rates. One small consignment has just ar-
rived, but the sample hardly comes up to expecta-
tion, and we will give the reverend committee a
VERY "NASTY ” OF HER.
LADY OF THE HOUSE . “AND THOSE, MY DEAR ARE OUR DEAR FRIENDS
LORD AND LADY CARING TON.”
CALLER: “WHAT LOVELY PHOTOGRAPHS AND WHERE DID YOU BUY
THEM, PRAY?”
rhythmical tip for their guidance on future
occasions :
The perfection of Pecksniflism is readied
in a standing order by Bishop Goe that the hoard-
ing of the Melbourne Cathedral must not be de-
filed by theatrical placards. Miln made a gentle
remonstrance to the effect that he counted six dis-
tinct brands of whisky placarded before the Cathe-
dral, but it was no use. ..Grogs blossoms) galore !
Now there is posted up a "soap advertisement with
a life-size picture of a young woman clad more
lightly than ever one was in tile pantomime. Tin’s
adorns the Cathedral and is as beautifully sug-
gestive a thing as ever you saw. But it jsut
t heatrical. Oh no ! A rose by any other name
will smell like assi.fu.tid.’.
One of the “chappies” who came out to
Australia in the same steamer as the Gaiety Com-
pany, and who did his share of entertaining that
aggregation of vestals, both in Melbourne and in
Sydney, is now doing “a iiinepeiiny doss” in a
certain model lodging-house. His wine-bill for the
voyage was about £loo—and as he contributed so
materially to keeping the company in good spirits
during the tedious voyage out, Williamson, Gar-
ner, and Musgrove will no doubt do something in
the way of organising a benefit for him.
There was no grand official Fourth of J uly
celebration in Sydney this year. Consul Griffin
was absent—in America, where, it is said, he is
endeavouring to arrange for an extension of office.
.But, iri any ease, the entertaining clone by any
American consul in Australia out of his official
salary can in no case “amount,” in American
phrase, “to a row of pins.” The consuls of the
Great Republic here are so miserably, paid that it
would bankrupt them if they drew upon their
salary to provide for their eouiitryiilcu once a
year one round of threepenny drinks.
Eight Sydney aldermen are in favour of
adorning their new Centennial Hall (which, by
Ihe .time it’s finished will have cost somewhere
between £150,000 and £200,000) with statues of ex-
mayors, and only nine are against the idea. If
we could be certain that the sculptor employed
would hack out faithful liknesses of the municipal
immortals, grog-blossoms and all, we would strongly
uphold the scheme. What magnificent ornaments
a row of aldermen would make for the niches in a
Temperance Hall !
* * #
Two Germans in Melbourne had been
courting two girls on the co-operative principle.
One of them provided the money necessary for the
entertainment of the young ladies, and the other
owed his whack. At last the Teutons fell out and
she money-provider is suing his erstwhile brother-
in-arms under the following unique “bill of parti-
culars ”:—
To taken* 2 gilrls to (lie bizarr, £1; to cab for same,
45., half was 2s. ; 1o certain shouts and beers, f!s. (id. ; to
aples, Is, ; loleys for giirls, 2s. ; I was lend you £2.”
The last item is too Carl Dundery for anything.
# # #
The will of Chief Justice Stawell was
witnessed by W. A. Moore and T. W. Palmer,
the respective associates of himself and Judee
Williams, senr., '2O years ago, the will dating
1869. Judge Barry's associate then was Geo.
Moore. Lively boys they were all. One of the
three had a black eye one morning in the Supreme
Court. He took care never to turn that side up
to the Judge. So the mouse escaped notice. Geo.
Moore won a big steeplechase at Flemington
course, on Goyder's Narcisse, in the white jacket
with red spots. Those associates could knock
spots out of the degenerate associates in the pre-
sent day.
* * #
Poets were .evidently considered of little
more account in the early days than they are now.
In 1844 Sir George Gipps,then GovernorofN.S W
and Port Phillip, sent a letter to the Colonial
Secretary enclosing a volume of poems, by one
Robert Cunynghame, dedicated to Prince Albert.
In the letter occurs this delicious paragraph
“I have' no personal knowledge of the writer
(Mr. Robert Cunynghame), but understand he is a
shipwright by trade, and that he bears a respectable
character.” He might have been anew Shakes-
peare, but if he had not been respectable Sir
George Gipps would have had nothing to do with
him. He was repectable, however. Conse-
quently, we suppose nobody of this present genera-
t’on ever heard of him. ‘ ‘ Respectable ” geniuses
are always thought well of while they are alive.
They, rarely want to borrow the price of a drink
fiqm their admirers. they are iorgotten imiim-
dlately they'die (though Martin Tupjier, the
Prince yf Respectable Poets, was forgotten long
..before, lie'died . if he is dead yet, which we really
don't know ; but that was pbxbab!/because he milk
off dying too long). The others who are not re-
spectable begin to bo appreciated as soon as they
are safely stiff. It would be too expensive to
praise them before that.
* # #
There is a great deal,, of slumbering indig-
nation in Hobart at the marked preference shown
at Government House to one or two families whose
antecedents give them no claim whatever to dis-
tinction of that sort. Lady Hamilton, who pro-
mised to be one of the most popular of Governors’
wives, is rapidly losing ground through permitting
this sort of thing to gain ground, instigated, as it
undoubtedly is, by younger members of the guber-
natorial establishment.
* * #
There is a desperate quarrel in the Mel-
bourne teetotal world —storm in a. tea-cup. The
1 ectotal Society is housed by one John Vale, blit
one Axel Gustafson lias come from .Schweden and
wants to belA oss, aimt it ? The pair go in hannner-
and-tcugs. These people get mixing their drinks,
layers of bohea, vigorinc, ginger-wine, cocaine,
dandelion beta - , and one.thing and another. Why
don t they shako hands and screw months over
friendly rot-gut ?
* * ' #
Some people are born snobs, some achieve
snobbery, and some have ■ snobbery thrust upon
them. Melbourne photographers are in this third
class. Lady Loch’s smirk is already disappearing
from the show-cases. Hie. transit, etc.
:]J
Rev. Principal Rainy (now in Sydney),
who gets about £1000 a-year in Edinburgh, tells
Melbourne congregations to -‘find the treasure,
dear friends, find the treasure.” Boor old brithcr
M‘Gillicnddy has 14 kids and only seven bob a-
day. He thinks lie could find the treasure if
Rainy would only swap with him. Then Rainy
could enjoy the Blessings of Poverty on which they
all expatiate so eloquently.
If a Governor's wife (or “ lady ”) is to be
styled “Her Excellency," how about the mayor's
other half and the bishop’s spouse? “Her Wor-
ship ” and “ Her Ladyship, ” we suppose. What a
lark !
Railway carriages in N.Z.—non-smoking- -
bear the notice in Maori : “ Kctua e ken paijxi h i
kernel ” (no food of the pipe in this place).
# # %
“ Miss Drexler carries away six million
dollars of her inherited wealth to a cloister of
nuns. We do not particularly regret tins incident ,
for so sure as the prophesying of any possible event
it will all come back in time. One of the certain
things in the history of a government republican
in form is, that the accumulations piled up in
nunneries, cloisters, convents, and churches, and
the property gathered by bishops, priests, Jesuits,
and all sorts of monks, will in time come back to
the people by distribution and secularization. One
of tlie first fruits of socialism will come in the
handing back to the people of all the. money,
property, and effects gathered from death-beds
and foolish girls like Miss Drexler. There is no
place where this property is accumulating faster
than in San Francisco. It would be curious
statistics to ascertain how many millions the
Church of Rome has gathered here in the last forty
years.”—S.F. Paper.
■ * * *
It is stated that a high official of N.S.W.
police has had a constable specially told off to
watch his own private house during the burglary-
boom.
Anecdote of St. Peter and spirit of
colonial knight. St. Peter (introducing spirit of
colonial knight to other congenial spirits of the
wealthy lower order of saints) : “ This is Saint (a
title conferred immediately yon get on the right
side of the gates of Heaven,-by the way) Samuel
Wilson.” Spirit of Colonial Knight, with a snort:
“Saint Samuel be d-—d! Saint Sir Samuel
M ilson, if wm please.” This a mere effort of
fancy, yon will perceive. Sir Samuel Wilson is
not dead yet, and, who knows, may dovclope
tendencies of an atheistic character before he does
die. *
Some of the Sydney burglars arc, it is
pretty certain, mere amateurs;’ For instance, the
other night a private house was broken into and
an electroplated spoon stolen out of a solid silver
sugar-bowl. The last-named article was left be-
hind.
Mysterious Wanted, general servant
for small family. No shirts.” ’ For Samoa, we
presume.
CUPID'S LESSON.
A'o woman ever yet lias loathed
Young Cupid in his state of nature,
But Cupid, when he’s tailor-clothed,
Appears to be a filthy erature;
The one shoots little arrows, keen,
At blushing maid or stern duenna »
The other uses words obscene
In public, and is fined a “ tenner.”
The naked god, whose health is drunk
In ruddy wine by gay carousors,
Becomes, alas ! a perfect skunk
Directly he goes in for trousers :
And, doubtless, you and we, and all.
Would not be such degraded vanu n„3
.Had not our Parents, at the Fall,
Associated sin with garments.
The habit, then, of sporting “togs”
Is, by this token, very stupid ;
It drags a fellow to the dogs
< fbserve the sad effect on Cupid.
Now, as the ladies never loathed
Him naked, as he didn't scare ’em,
Mankind h tic.'forth should go unclothed
We’re wicked, that we are, to wear ’em.
Oh. rev’rend swells across the wave,
W e want a buxom, bouncing lass,
With guarantees the parsons gave
That she won’t give the missus “ sass,”
Nor harbour traps nor volunteers,
Nor ever put on uppish airs
If master pinch her coral ears
Or slyly kiss her on the stairs,
A maid like this you’ll please select
To fill a want long felt out here —
She must be shy and circumspect,
\ And never call the master “ dear ”
Unless she’s sure there’s no one nigh,
For missus’.ears are always quick,
And like enough the hair will fly
If Mary call her “hub.” “ Old Flick.”
We find the girls who’re grown at hand
If kissed, presume too much upon it,
Wear missus’ boots and do the grand
Upon the block beneath her bonnet,
Conclude from such a simple sign
That of the boss they’ve made a ma; ’,
And straightway lay a-bed till nine,
And send him “ hair-looms ” in the hash.
Then let the girls be plump and fair,
And aged—well, say, eighteen or so—
And shy, and circumspect—but there
If you are parsons you must know.
BEAUTY COLD.
The dazzling, beauteous hugs that streak
The glitt’riug sun-tipped iceberg's peak
Charm not as doth thy glowing cheek,
Lovely maid !
But, colder than its frozen heart,
Dead to the charm those hues impart,
To passion, thou inspir’st, thou art
Lovely maid !
For waves woo round the iceberg’s base,
And, pleading, mirror its bright face,
Till, melting, it seeks their embrace.
Lovely maid !
Whilst 1, alas, thy charms have sung,
To plead my love, in passion’s tongue ;
But thy cold glance its knell hath rung,
Lovely maid !
VICTOR PASA.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT & DISCOUNT BANK,
Beaumont 'Guam bisks, IiLNO STREET.
Agencies in Loudon and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits:—
3 Years OS- per cent.
12 Months B.V per cent.
0 Months per cent.
3 Months 5J per cent.
For the oast Three Years a Bonus of One pee
tIENT. has been paid in addition to the above rates.
Communications from the country will bo
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
(Jeserau Manager.
Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simp’e remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness (end noises in the head
of forty YK.Mts’-WMxniNt; b»w just 'yen effected,,
will be sent KBEK to anyone w ho to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbotirue.
It would be useless to say that the appoint-
ment of Commander Horne, R.N.,_to the Gover-
norship of Trial Bay prison, N.S. W., is a job, for
lias not Mr. Ringnose Wise stated that corruption
is unknown in Australian legislatures ? Who is
Commander'Horne, R.N. ? Well, he is a native
of Tasmania and a jolly-looking man under
forty years, with a face like a sunset in a cheap
chroma’ dazzling teeth, and an orotund voice, and
lie is a brother of one of the handsomest women in
Australia. Until N.S. Wales found that her
prison system could not get on without him Com-
mander Horne, R.N., was snugly provided for by
the N Z Government as Sergeant-at-arms to the
House of Representatives at Wellington, and this,
it appears, is his sole qualification for a prison
appointment. Members of Parliament m N./.
don't get drunk so frequently as they do m
tsj y neither do they paint their metrojiolis
ml 'which redounds to their credit, seeing it is
such a small metropolis and wants painting so
badly and when they do commit some breach of
decorum that necessitates the intervention of
the Sergeant-at-arms there is no skull-dragging
and hauling and handcuffs, no; nothing more
punitive than a nicely - carpeted Worn a
boiled turkey from Bellamys, and a nice bottle
of adroitlv-warmed claret cobwebs blown off
with Commander Horne's cow-hke breath. I his
training is not the training that Botany Bay
gaolers usually receive, and next tune I he Bui.ee-
tiv gets “ lagged” it would as soon be Commandei
Horne's guest as not- no skilly, only boiled turkey
(stuffed with oysters) and claret. But we drivel.
Commander Horne, before going to N./., had
been in the Royal Navy, and his brass buttons and
torpedo beard-or it may have been Ins pretty
teeth aiid the orotund voice a f ovc<aid - captivated
~ voiuf lady of powerful family connections.
When she yelled out “ Uncle!” both Sir Frederick
Whitaker and Sir Maurice O’Rorkc yelled back,
“What'do you want, my dear?” Ihey didn't
know which* uncle she wanted. They were both
her uncle. She had an advantage over most girl*
in matters avuncular —and well, that s how Com-
mander Home, R.N., became N.Z. Sergeant-at -
arms. The Commander’s sole connection with
N.S.W., so far as we can discover at present, is
a marital relationship with Mr, “Teddy” Wrench,
t ,f Sydney, and wo think we arc barking up the
rmlit tree when we say that he has been wrenched
or other —into his ivw billet. Aho
appointment, however, is forming the subject of
an excited correspondence between the N.S.vV.
Civil Service Board and the Mthister of (alleged)
Justice, and every other man in the N.S,\\.
Prisons Department is as mournful as a trapped
diugo * *
Governor Loch, who “turned it up under
much the saulo shuffling conditions as Bishop
Moorhouse did. sent this cable to one of his local
adherents :—“We deeply regret leaving Victoria
and our kind, v alued friends, and trust it is fully
understood only souse of duty leads me to this
severance.” It’s foully understood. -
The Earl of Fife will marry Albert Edward a
daughter on the 27th -Lily, D.V. This haste is
cither intended to prevent any lengthy discussion
on the question of Louise’s [and Albert Victor s)
proposed dowry, or is caused by other circum-
stances of a mysterious character. Anyhow, they
seem precious anxious to bring off the nuptial
ceremony.
« * *
Obituary notice in the Age :
“ It’s just one year to day
Since my dear wife was called away ;
Although her death has caused us pain
We know our loss has been her gain.”
“ Inserted by her husband.” It is the case with
many wives to gain by being lost by their husband.
But it is not every husband who admits the fact
in this handsome manner.
*# y #
“Viva,” the lady who, writes fashion, notes
and gives r< eip as for making pies in that holy
paper the Melbourne Daily Telegraph, thus
replies to a correspondent wild wanted a cure for
rheumatism : “Mix together two ounces of,cam-
phor, the same quantity of Castile soap, and half
a pint' of rum. Rub the mixture well into the
affected parts;” Only a woman could talk calmly
of spoiling rum in this way. There is, too, an air
of flippancy—we had almost said of sacrilege in
‘ speaking?of “rubbing it well into the affected
parts ’’- --taking it outwardly, in other words. And
yet woman claims an equality of intellect with
Man !
A councillor of Essendon (Melb.) bus been
sentenced to “ seven days hard ’ for pilfering
a bucket-full of horse-feed from a, training-stable.
As Solomon observed : “ In a multitude of coun-
cillors there are plenty of prigs if you can only
Hud them out.” ■
* ? ' * *
The proportion of widows to widowers in
England and Wales is nearly three to one. Pretty
conclusive evidence this as to which .sex marriage
most agrees with.
* * *
Governor Wohiuson is contributing his
experiences to the Melbourne Evening Standard.
r L'he dreadful experiences of the vice-regal trou-
badour seem to be made up of quotations from the
writings of other Governors and musicians, and,
looking through his exalted screed, we find that
Lord Diitferiu said of /its experiences in Canada
that, “ Everywhere he had found the people satis-
tied with their Governors and the institutions
under which they prosper (oh ! yes, the Governors
prosper all right), satisfied to be subjects of the
Queen, satisfied to be members of the British
Empire.”. This is the most flagrant case of “ talk-
in"’ shop ” that ever made us feel bilious, and
we arc now wondering whether the Evening
Standard payi Wobinson, or Wobinson pays the
Standard, or our Gracious Queen stands Sam out
of the bulging Privy Purse. Perhaps it’s charged
to Tummv —on the office-slate.
* * *
The Church of England Emigration Society
exported a shipment of girls to Australia recently,
everyone of them having been previously baptised,
confirmed, and otherwise-set fairly going on the
narrow track that leads to St. Peter’s box-office.
On the voyage out, we read, “they were kept
separate from the rest of the third-class pas-
sengers ” —a device which, of course, preserved
AT SCHOOL.
ADOLPHUS (a new arrial) : “YES, I’M VERY WELL CONNECTED. IN FACT
EVE BLUE BLOOD IN ME.”
JACK: “YES, BUT DON’T TELL THE OTHER FELLOWS THAT OR THEY'LL
GIVE YOU A CLOUT IN THE NOSE TO SEE.”
them from contamination by any nasty, tow
Methodists or Presbyterians who might have been
in the steerage.
# § *
A woman who took a fancy to riding in a
man’s saddle was thrown from her horse and had
her neck broken at Warwick (Q.) lately. Ihe
moral is, that women who persist in taking tbe
place of the sterner sex must do so m the ordinary
bifurcated manner.
« * '*
A Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children has been established in Sydney. We
are open to wager tliat not one per cent,. ot the
lady members of the Society have any children ot
their own. „
# * *
A deputation to the N.SAV. Preinicr
asked that an Inebriate Home be established.
Aren’t Parliament Houses and Hyde I ark good
enough?
* * *
A Noose ad. : ...
DUCATED Gentleman, f.S, pleasing disposition
Jli and private means, having but few opportunities
of meeting a desirable Lady, would be pleased to cor-
respond with one who possesses the true instincts of a
Ladv, and shall he pleased to give ocular proof regaid-
his position, &c. Correspondent is Assured of stuct
confidence.
* * *
People wonder why a certain set of
N.S.W. military heroes,arc so fond of getting up
cricket matches at which prominent actresses share
luncheon.
* * *
Evenoose obituary idea o f Heaven
“ And home, a fairer home is opened to his heart,
Whore the summer shines for ever and the roses
show no blight.”
A little local colour, in the shape of absence of
rabbits, codlin moth and phylloxera might bo rung
in with effect. 1
A certain Australian magnate whose pro-
clivities are notorious in at least four colonies, has
arrived in London. It is hop d that, to avoid scan-
dal, he'll put up in the neighbourhood of St .losii s
Wood. He travelled to Hmgland no. Salt Lake
City, and it sorely puzzles his old friends that ho
did ut elect to remain there.
# =&
Robert Louis Stevenson, a Bulletin c p r '
respondent writes, has started on another yachting
voyage iu the. Pacific. He has done the volcanic
islands to the eastward, and is now off to the coral
atolls of the Marshall and Hilbert groups, lie
has with him his wife and her son-in-law Joe
Strong, a bright young painter, born in Oakland
and bred (to his art) in Munich, well known m
“ Bohemian ” circles in Sail Francisco and else-
where. This new voyage is to be wound up m
“Our Beautif 1 Harbour,” and Sydney will no
doubt lioui e the wanderer to the top of his bent.
Stevenson's “bent” in that line is something very
mild. He loves genial company but bates fuss.
His cruise aim ug the Coral Islands should inspire
a new book in his best style, something widely
different from that curious specimen ut what
biologists call “degeneration, ” the “Outlaws of
Tunstall Forest,” which the American newspaper
syndicate gave him a pot of money for. In the,
sunny lagoons of these atolls he may find oppor-
tunity for anew “Inland Voyage,’ to be de-
scribed, let us hope, as charmingly as was Ins
canoeing on Belgian rivers and canals in the well-
known little book that bears that nam
* * *
When, a short time ago, there was brought
to the N.S.W. Leg'slative. Council Chamber a
brown paper parcel, opinions were divided as to
whether it contained several pounds of candles or a
section of the Marble Man. The parcel was
opened ami was found to contain a bust of the
late Thomas Holt, M.L.C., as a present to his
bleeding country. Now, nobody, or hardly auy-
body, had asked for Mr. Holt’s bust. Great Men
always Remember their Country when they Hie.
Thk Buixktix rises to suggest that N.S.W. should
sternly decline to pander to the vanity of the Holt
clique" in this matter, unless as a quid pro quo they
give up to the Government all their rights to Post
Office street. We wouldn’t put up Holt’s bust
unless his relatives threw in Pitt street as well
and even then we’d only clinch the bargain under
protest.
' # * *
Candid obituary notice from Sydney daily:
“ in loving remembrance of my husband, , who
died July Ist, 1880. ‘The voice of weeping shall no
more be heard.’ ”
# # *
Curious advertisement from Age (Mel-
bourne) ;
TF DAVID A. does not send word to his
*- wife within a month from t his date she will please
herself. Address letter, Aon Office.
We know what that means, Madame.
The grandeur of scenery seen from 1 red. NV ilc-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue 'Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
“There is not a square uiile of Australia
upon which white men cannot labour, says Mi.
Traill, M.L.A.
Chief Justice Barley’s son lias been ap-
pointed Associate to his father. Three years as a
Judge’s Associate qualities for a call to the bar.
Queer typographical error in Melbourne
Auk : - “ Owing to the illness of the. leader of the
Opposition, Colonial Secretary Barkes extends lus
paw to Mr. Dlbbs.” Of course-“ pair ” was meant.
The executors under the will of “ Money
Miller apply to bring under the N.S.W. Heal
Proiierty Act no less than 271 Grown grants ot
land in N.S. Wales. The total area is not given.
Why ?
That sv ish old Eastern voluptuary, the
Shah, has been carried to the Loudon < Imldhall m
a. grand i>rocession. Had he no handle to Ins
name it is probable that he would have been
carted to Millbank prison.
Albert Victor, vulgarly known as “ Collars
and Cuffs,” attired as an officer of the Wth
Hussars, presented new colours to th” Black M atdi
(12nd Highland) at Belfast. The. universal fenn-
nine verdict was, ” He lias stays on.
Crick, M.P., is anxious to have usury
abolished in N.S.W., but Brenner Parises says
the Government has not yet considered the sub-
ject. A certain banker of King-street, Sydney,
has, however, quite made up his mind on the
subject.
The late Mr. J. B. Watson, of Sandhurst,
left property behind him, in Victoria, valued at
£942,000. That’s nearly £l per head of the popu-
lation, and parties desiring to draw their dividend
in hard cash will please make early application, to
avoid delay.
Helen Chalmers, the daughter of the great
Scotch divine, lives in one of the lowest wynds m
Edinburgh. She has given her life to the rescue
of the “ fallen,” and going out every night with a
lantern never returns until she can bring one oi
more unfortunates home with her.
“On the occasion of the Queen’s visit to
Biarritz,” says a London paper, “she was accom-
panied by a now courier, subsequently discovered
to be a woman in disguise.” Hus is a complete
reversal of former precedent; at least, so tar as
Queens are concerned.
Editor Bulletin. Sir, —I have been
shown an autograph letter of William Charles
Wentworth’s, dated some 40 years ago, addressed
to a Government surveyor up North. A request
was conveyed therein that the applicant might
have twelve 40-acre blocks of land on the Hunter
River allotted to him and that hve miles should
be allowed to intervene between each block lor
running sheep cn, thus securing_ no less Than .0
miles of river frontage to himself. I believe the
request of the great patriot was refused.— Y ours.
Lex.
Speaker Davies is a very gorgeous item in
the Victorian Assembly since those new rules were
rushed through. The other day Mr. Laurens was
rising to ask Duncan Gillies a casual question -
just on the spur of the instant, as it were-when
the Speaker solemnly explained that no previous
notice had been, given and the question could not
be, put without permission. Laurens, looking
more like a heavy national calamity than usual,
desired to know where ho was to sue for permission.
“ You must ask the Speaker privately, said that
exalted man. Whereupon Laurens clambered up
tiio dais, breathed Ids supplication under one flap
of Davies’s wig, and returned to his seat in sorrow.
The Speaker, as Laurens proceeded to mention,
had refused him permission to ask the question.
There is now not a single working man’s
rei iresentati ve in the Victorian Bari i ament. “Bill
Treiiwith is the nearest approach, but he smokes
a threepenny cigar now under a belltopper, white
his friend Murphy, of the Trades Hall, is the
other Droniio; Robespierre said, You cannot be
the friend of the People and live in a palace
These fellows all get up to live in the palace. At
a Speaker’s dinner one says, m the words ot a
Melbourne journalist, “Blow the horny-handed .
T hate ’em.” Trenwith first began to spout under
the name of Trenoweth, but with the same spec-
tacles, at the Sunday evening Free Discussion
Society. He made boots—more honour to him.
Don’t- do the Graham Berry, Trenwith. J lease
don’t vise to be Agent-General and join the Oarltou
t’hib.
-Harrison Millard, the ballad-singer, who
accompanied the late Irving Bishop on his mind-
rending tours, tells the following anecdotes oi luui .
While°iu Honolulu, he was passing the evening
with a small but very gay party. One of the ladies
expressed her disbelief m the power ot any
hypnotizer to influence her. Bishop experimented
upon her in the usual way, and when he ordered
her to remain rigid with her arms extended, no
force could-bend her limbs. As she was sitting
on a chair, her foot was raised, so that her leg was
out straight and rigid. The party, after tiring
somewhat of the experiments, adjourned to the
piazza of the house. Bishop, as he passed by lus
subject, in a joke elevated the limb still higher,
until it was almost perpendiounlar, and then lett
her in that'unique position. As the hour was late,
and his horse was at the door waiting to carry min
home about six miles away, he jumped m the
saddle, entirely forgetting his subject inside. Uu
las arrival home, he found the telephone-bell ring-
ing as if possessed of several evil spirits. Bishop
answered the call at once. He was told that every
means had been exhausted by the parties left
behind in the house to get the_ limb back to its
normal position. They urged him to ride back as
fast as possible to relieve the subject from her
peculiar pose. He telephoned them to send for a
doctor, who, by injecting a little morphine, could
accomplish the desired result. Next time he met
the young lady she made him promise, on Ins word
of honor, never again to, in any way exercise his
hypnotic power over her, and only on this eom
dition was he pardoned for the cruel practical joke
played upon her. On another occasion, in England,
all the royal family, except the Queen, were
present. ‘The old Duchess of K—, who was
unite a °-ny on account of her age and eccentricities,
was also there. It was suggested by some one
that the best hiding-place for the gold sovereign
would be inside the stocking of the aged Duchess.
She consented, and said she would bo convinced
of Bishop's j lowers if lie, discovered where it was
hid. Mr. Bishop, after a few moments’ hesitation,
went directly to her and impudently found the
coin with bis delicate lingers concealed near "'•
ankle. The aged dame-expressed herself thoroughly
satisfied with his wonderful powers of divina-
tion. .
Thk Bulletin is requested by Messrs. Balchin
Johnston, and 00., of Bond-street, agents for Messrs. M
p, Kosler, of London, to intimate that a quanl itv of Leer.
" and stout of inferior qualit v has latelj hern sold in Aus-
tralia, such bottles having affixed to them skUfullyTorged
labels. Foster’s genuine beer hears the ‘ Bugle Bran a,
and all corks .and capsules of the real Foster bear the
name and address of the firm.
No intention to deceive us,
When he said he wouldn’t leave us,
Had that Governor, so good ;
He goes from sense of duty
To Old England, “ Home,” and Beauty,
Which is fully understood.
True, The Bulletin, so plucky,
Stated Loch had “ cut his lucky
(For we always knew he would),
When lie sniffed a bigger billet ;
But at Duty’s call he’ll till it—
That is fully understood.'
Being gallant and veracious,
He went “ Home ” to see Her (Iracious,
Like a loyal subject should ;
Not to get another offer—
Leave off laughing, do, you scoffer —
Oh ! that’s fully understood.
To make a change they prayed him,
But they never could persuade him —
He was hard as any wood :
Till, affected by their suit, he
Murmured “Yes, I’ll do my duty ’
And Her Gracious understood.
Why men tell these tarradiddles
Is the runmiest of the riddles,
Which explain we never could ;
Swapping one Gov. for another
Needn't cause a fuss or bother,
That is fully understood.


Amusements.
H E R MAJESTY’S THEATRE. 1
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Poors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45. _
IMME N S E SUCCESS
of the Great Popular Drama,
I IST THE 3=l -A. KT BE S. !
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual. i
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager. j
/CRITERION THEATRE.!
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . Mr. Mayue. '
riflS (THURSDAY) EVENING, JULY 11,
Another Grand Production
BY THE )
Urough-Boucicault Comedy Company,
First lime in Australia,
Joseph’s Sweetheart.
The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Mr. Robert Brough.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
JJ9HEATRE ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrovc.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman. \
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
COMPLETE and BRILLIANT SUCCESS
OP
THE YEOMEN 0F THE GHAED,
Admission—os., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
Iff E W OPERA HOUSE,
•*»* Kino and York Streets.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. John Solomon.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. John Solomon's English and Comic Opera
Company, under the Musical Direction of
M O N S. H E N R I KOWAL S K I.
THIS (TiIURFDAY) EVENING JULY 11,
LAST MIGHT BI T ONE. LAST NIGHT BUT ONE-
OP
IYT OUSTIQUE.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s.
Admission : us., 3s. is. Doors open 7.30. Commence at S«
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY' 13th Grand Production of
M ABIT ANTA.
JOE DAVIS Business Managep.
*|J ON D I AQUARIUM.
The most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff Daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to C-p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, (id. Trams to Gate—Fare, Id.
OYCLORAMA.
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama!
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama!
Opposite Railway Station.
OPEN DAILY ... From 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
SUNDAYS, 3 to 10 p.m.
Admission, Two Shillings ; Children, One Shilling.
Schools of 25 ami upwards admitted at a reduction
of 25 per cent.
“Every detail is true to the life.”
A Gettysburg Veteran.
CYCLORAMA.
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL
ASSOCIATION OF QUEENSLAND.
A. nmial UES jclailaitio n.
xeee.
BOWEN PARK, BRISBANE.
August 20, 21, 22, 23, and 24.
Judging Day: TUESDAY, 20th August,
Opening Day ; WEDNESDAY, 21st August.
IN addition to the Valuable Brizes given by the
Association, a large number of Special Prizes
have been donated for Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs,
Poultry, and Farm and Dairy Produce.
Members Tickets (price £1 Is.), Prize Schedules,
and all information promptly forwarded on appli-
cation to
ERNEST A. SMITH, Secretary,
150 Elizabeth-street. Brisbane.
Head. ! 3Ffc.esEo.cl ! Read !
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One SHillirig
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland).
Sole Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, Oeorge-street.
Tasmanian; Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allk’nds of Tins for Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
Jk Solicited.
Amusements.
JJ LITE SKATING RINK.
this Rink has the reputation of bein'?
j Best-conducted Rink in the Australian Colonies,
I Here you arc sure to meet the elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
Admission - One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling; Private
Skates, Sixpence.- Season Admission Tickets:
Gentlemen, 455..; Ladies, 40s. Season Skate Checks
for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen, 15s. ;
; Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever Clamp
Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate 'Picket
included, Gentlemen, 355. ; Ladies, 30s. Roller-
bearing, 15s. extra ; Ball-bearings, £4 extra.
Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair : wholesale, 17s. (id.
Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station every five
minutes f° r the- rink ; patrons carried free.
Red fern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bedford-
street, opposite the Rink.
I
METROPOLITAN SKATING RINK,
Harris Street, Ultimo.
SSiT" Nearest Rink to Rcdfern Railway Station.
Finest Skatiny Surface in the Colony.
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a.m, Ladies and Children only: Admis-
sion FREE; Skates, Gd.
2.00 to 5 p.m.—Admission ; Ladies, 6d., Skates,
Gd.; Gentlemen, Is., Skates, Gd.
7.30 to 10 p.m.—Admission to all, Is.; Skates, Gd.
Double Ticket of Admission, Is. 6d.
Weekly Tickets: Single, 35.; Double, Is. Sd.
FLOORAGE FREE.
Pyrmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
Lessee and Manager ... JOHN R. GEE.
rjjSROCADERO,
KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Most Complete and elegant Skating Kink
in Australia.
Cool and Refreshing Atmosphere ! The Oden
Roof a Boon to Skaters !
Grand Orchestra, Gorgeous Appointments.
Electric Light!
Skates Unequalled in the City!
TRAM-CARS STOP AT DOOR.
TUESDAY jE'V'ZETsTIILTGt,
JULY IG,
/Grand Masquerade <i Carnival & (Bali
A large assortment of Masks for Sale at
Moderate Prices.
Open Daily. Usual Rink Prices.
George Oughton ... General Manager.
JJARLINGHURST SKATING RINK,
Corner of FOR BEB and BURTON STREETS.
Morning—Ladies and Children adm tted Free; Shales, Od.
Afternoon - Admission, Is;.; Ladies, (id. (Saturdays ex-
cepted.) Evening -Admission, Is.
V Engagement for Six Nights Only ! V
Commencing Saturday, 13th July, of
Professor H, K. Simmons,
TRICK & SCIENTIFIC SKATER.
Season Tickets’Now Ready.
Terms; Ladies’ Tickets, 305.; Gentlemen, 355.;
Eloorage Tickets, 15s.
Special Prices can bo arranged for Family Tickets.
TTOSPITAL BAZAAR and VILLAGE FAIR I
Under the patronage $ Lord and Lady Carington,
-Ox - -
Aid of the City and■ Suburban Hospitals.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, Prince Alfred Park.
Opening liny, I‘Jlh September, IS8!).
President, Lady Martin ; Vice-Presidents, Lady
Da-rley, Lady Allen, Mrs. Belisario, and Mr.
James Devlin; Honorary Treasurers, Alfred Allen,
Esq'., M.L.A.,'John Street, Esq., M.L.A., andF.
B. Lark, Esq.
The Honorary Secretaries, Town Hall, would be
very pleased to have the sympathy and support of
the general public and to receive names’of persons
willing to assist by miscellaneous Gifts, however
small, either in Paintings, Photographs, Books
(new or second-hand), Perfumery or Cigarettes,
any hand-painted articles, Plain or Fancy Needle-
work, Presents of Dolls, &c. Prizes for the “Art-
Union’’and Gifts for the above to be forwarded
addressed “ Hospital Bazaar and Village Pair,”
care of Miss MT\ay, Sydney Hospital, Macquarie-
street, who has kindly granted us storage room.
Promises of help with Flowers, Ferns, eke., Fruit,
Home-made Preserves, Confectionery, Cakes, or
to Dairy and Refreshment Stalls, please communi-
cate with
MRS. ALFRED ALLEN, 1
MISS JULIA BELISARIO, /
Hon.
Secs.
Town Hall, Sydney.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR SALE.—A Quantity of Second-hand
Newspaper-Type in Case -and Hulk. For
particulars apply to the Printer, Bulletin office.
Miscellaneous.
S. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDERS,
©dent Square ||luc,
Extract of Soap,
cjftnegar, 'Blacking,
&c., &c., &0.
Steam Works and Brewery :
• HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
S Y U N E Y,
(Opposite Goldsbrougli’s Wool Stores),
JOHN LAWLER
-A. IN"ID scasrs,
GOS, GlO, GJ.2 George Street
SYDNEY.
Bedding and Wire Mattress
MANUFACTURERS,
UPHOLSTEKEKS
AND
CABINETMAKERS.
The Largest Stockholders
OP
G-EITEBAL
FURNISHING REQUIREMENTS
IN ALL AUSTRALASIA.
Telephone No. G6.] [Established 18(10.
FARMER’S EXCHANGE. ALBURY.
PA. BUCKHOHN & CO., Produce Mei:-
• CHANTS, have always on band large
supplies of Oats, Chaff, Potatoes, Onions, Butter,
Cheese, and Eggs.
Chaff in any quantity sold in trucks at Albury
Station according to sample.
Orders Promptly Attended to.
ows
';\EVERY*WHERE'
w
Tobacconists.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
I
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
1231 Clarence Street.
First Prizc-MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
MELACHIiI.VO'i
MEIjACITRINO
MELACHRIXOI
MEEACIIRINO j
MK EACH RING
MELACHRINO J
M. Melachrino & Co., Caii-o,
SUPPLY
All the Courts and Embassies of Euroj e
ALL THE
Leadin'/ British and Continental Clubs
and Bc'jimcntal Messes.
- Have the Largest Sale in the World!—.
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best,
Sole Agents:
& roww,
14 lUieijieK Sired, Sydney.
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 5 Cigarette . . . 85/- per 1000; !)./■ per 100.,
~ No. 8 ~ 6(1/- ~ , . 7/- ~
Orders from any part oj the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
Furniture, &c.
N
EWT O N AND LAM B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UP]IOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPUING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any mater al.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, m variou
Woods, and very handsome designs, wit I
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes fo
single rooms. Great variety.
NEW TO N ano LAM B,
I’urniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
I7UVE POUNDS FIFTEEN SHILLING."
1 BEDROOM SUITES. The K.
. ...uiioimi
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, WashOand,
witli Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, ami
two Chairs. The lot for £'s 15s.
NEWTON & LAND,
O Connki.i. and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, -fashionable earlv
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, wit IT marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail : Toilet Table,
with. Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, l(j guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O Connell and Spring Streets.
k
/1A NV AS FOLDING
Vy CO’I S, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, lbs. (id.
Newton & Lamb.
D
S
ININCI TABLES, with
screws, from 5 feet long
O'BERIOI
patent extending
and up to 20 feet.
BAMBOO BUNDS.
WHITE
0 x 8, 8 x 8, 0 x 8, 10 x 8, 12 x 8, at low prices.
k
Austrian bent-
wood
F U K N i. T U R E.
4 Very Compik t e
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
witli pulleys and cord, (i x 8, (is. (id. ; 8 \ 8,
Its. ; !) vB, !)s. (id. ; 10x8, 10s. (id. : 12 x 8,12 s. (id.;
12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring- and O’Connell Streets.
a
PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
ID feet of hanging B(>abe.
Vkji y Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB
ķ
QANV’as
FOLDING
CH.vIFS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Fnicr Y’suy Low
NEW T O N An n LAM B,
Euruiture Warehousemen,
Spuing and O’Conneuu Streets.
AWN and I'A RK hft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14sf (id. each. Newton
and Lamb.
i ARDEN SEATST 19s. Ve.audah Chaiis'
VJ Indian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAM B.
"ATTAN VERANDAH LQIJNOES, from
Ids. ; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O'Connell
Street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Kates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
EWTON AND LAM B,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
DHOW KOOMS AND MANUFACTORY !
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
Show Room and Manufactory ;


Western Australia: the Coming
How is the time to Invest your Tew Pounds!
To Reap very shortly your Thousands!
Tl H OfcTTJi
Gold, M.A., Tin and
.... fa’fWo to mit iSe and Small Buyer., Syndicate., So., from £lO to £20,000
tm < rrea V»£i+.Vl CltiToGt,
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Ixiglis & Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Cleaver’s
Transparent
Best* Cheapest Cnn-rv
Bar None!! tJUCIp
k
DAWSONS
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00.,
(Opposite Gr.1’.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
1
O
N
WHISKY.
SITB - A G ENTS WAXT ED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
TH!>3IT 3H 3 u T AU ST R ALAS lA.
The Referee
RACING FIXTURES FOR COMING WEEK.
V.R.C. Grand National Meeting (Ist day), July 13
Deniliqnin Jockey Club ~ (Ist day), ~ Ifi
Deniliqnin Jockey Club „ >» If
Y.R.C. Grand National „ (2nd day), „ 20
A pitifully small crowd rolled up at Asso-
ciation Ground, Sydney, on Saturday last to see
the Port Melbourne team give N.S. Wales a beat-
ing at football under Victorian rules. The
Victorian game is, no doubt, a magnificent game
to watch, but if there is anything in the rules
prohibiting the players from ever having their
clothing washed, or compelling them to play m
dirty, sleeveless jerseys, exposing an unpleasant
amount of bare armpit and chest-bone, or to grease
themselves with nasty-smelling oil, or to go in for
vulgar “ showing off ” in the field, or to curse loud
enough to be heard all over the ground, The
Bulletin 1 thinks that those rules ought to be some-
what relaxed. We presume that the rules must
lay down all these things, as they were followed
out with.strict accuracy by both the Sydney and
Port Melbourne representatives on Saturday.
# * *
One does not, of course, expect a footballer to
be of the “nice young man for a small tea fight’
school. But is there any necessity for the bare
arms and armpits ? Rugby is supposed to be a
rougher game than the Victorian, but the Rugby
players always wear sleeves to their jerseys. _ Also,
we’ Would respectfully inquire whether it was
necessary, under V ictorian Rules, for some of the
Port Melbourne players to begin to unlace the
fronts of their jerseys on the playing ground as
soon as the game was finished, and before they
reached the shelter of the pavilion ? No doubt
they were very great men, and above trifles, but
they might have waited just a few seconds till
they got inside the building. Someone suggests ;
“ Ah ! you ought to see South Melbourne on the
job. They are the lively boys.’’ But we don’t
want to see South Melbourne just yet. The
present team is quite a large enough order for
us. The most “offside” Rugby club about
Sydney could hardly have improved on what they
showed us. And they “get it down pretty fine”
at the Rugby game about Sydney. Troops of
barraekers follow the teams about and raise an
unholy din. In one suburb, which shall be name-
less, it was the fashion for a few of the “ hangers-
on ” of the local team to “go through ” the clothes of
the visiting teams, while the game was in progress.
They used to “cop-out” with watches, pins, and
such trifles, so that whatever way the game went
they were “ a bit ahead of it,” so to speak.
# * *
Comparing the two games, there can be no
doubt of the superiority of the Victorian game
from a spectator’s point of view. The ball flies
all over the ground, the rules are simple, and the
proficiency in drop-kicking and catching which
the teams attain is something wonderful. Whep
the English players (Rugby) were in Victoria,
Stoddart, their crack, said that he had never seen
such drop-kicking anywhere. Every man of the
Victorian team could kick his 00 yards, as a
matter of course,
* * *
There were two deaf and dumb players with the
Port Melbourne. This must have been rather a
loss to their side, as it meant that two of their men
were quite unable to do their share of cursing the
umpire and could not constantly sing out, “ Hi,
kick her this way, Bill ; yer, why don’t yer
play the game !” The rest of the team made up
for the deficiency very well.
# * *
Talking of deaf and dumb footballers. Long
ago, when the present writer was a boy, lie play el
Rugby football witli a team renowned for their
rough play. Once we met a team, included in
which was a deaf and dumb man. The other
1 flayers on his side foolishly never told us about
this man’s infirmity—-not that it would have made
very much difference to some of our players who
were very rough diamonds —professional runners,
blacksmiths, and quarrymen. Our full-back in
particular was a living terror. After we had
played awhile, the “dummy” made a grand run
with the ball and got through to our “ back,’ who
downed him. In those days it was necessary -or,
at any rate, we thought it necessary—for any man
on being collared to say “ held ” ; and when you
upset a man you had to make him say “held,”
even though you tramped him flat in the effort.
Our back, therefore, proceeded to make this deaf
and dumb man say “held.” He rolled him over,
knelt on his chest, and remarked, “Say held, Say
held, or I’ll break your neck !” The unfortunate
man struggled but said nothing, so our back
began to industriously screw his neck round, with
the object of inducing him to offer some remark on
the subject. Just as he had made the third twist
or so some of the dumb man’s side rushed up, and
explained matters. Our back thereupon relin-
guished his hold, merely remarking, “Why in
h 1 didn’t you na>/ you were dumb!” The
game was ordered to proceed, but the dumb man
explained on his fingers that he would like to go
and lean against the fence and think for an hour
or so. He wore his head over his left shoulder for
the rest of the afternoon.
# * *
While the Port Melbourne and Sydney game
was in progress, every now and again there were
wafted from the Agricultural Ground adjoining,
the wild howls of the barraekers for the Zealandia
'Club, as they urged their men on to defeat Double
Bay. The game was won by Zealandia by eight
points to three. On the same ground the Univer-
sity simply pranced through the once famous
Wallaroos by 54 points to nothing. How are the
mighty fallen!
* * *
There was some good sport at Foley’s
Hall on Saturday night; the first match on the
programme fell through as one of the combatants,
Kinchen, from Melbourne, did not turn up to
meet Griffo— ‘‘Not bein’ fond of the jobs,” as
Larry Foley put it. Griffo sparred four good,
heavy rounds with a friend, and after they belted |
one another almost to a standstill, they amicably
withdrew and divided the shower of small silver
which rewarded their efforts. The big event was
a match between Hall and Slav in, brother of the
great whale; Slavic seemed endowed with all his
brother’s lack of intelligence, without having a
compensating amount of brute strength, and Hall
simply pasted him as he liked until Slavin’s second
threw up the towel. Foley, however, interfered, and
said that the public had paid to see a fight and they
must fight on and finish it, or he would give their
share of the gate-money to the Hospital. This
awful threat made them keep going, but it was
poor sport, as Slavin was hopelessly distressed,
and Hall was simply waiting a chance to give a
“knock-out” hit. It is riot much fun seeing a
good, game man hammered about after he is dead
beat, and Foley might just as well have let them
stop. After a few more rounds Hall got his
chance and landed a terrific left and right hit, one
on the eye cutting the cheek open, and the other
on the chin, bringing Slavin down as neatly as a
pithed bullock. His head struck the boards a
frightful smack, and more than one thought he was
seriously hurt. The blood trickled from his eye,
and he had to be lifted on to his chair, a thoroughly
beaten man. Then a bystander said, in a hoarse
whisper, “I wonder if it was a genuine Jhing?”
Some people see “ crdnk ” work in everything.
* * *
The show wound up with a match hastily
arranged between two men, strangers to each
other. One, a professional boxer, named Gavan,
and the other, a great, big, strapping fellow,
evidently rather fancying himself. It was given
out as four friendly rounds, and he need not have
lone anything but spar; but, being anxious for
dory, he sailed into Gavan, and gave him some
rousing hits. Then the professional began to stick
his under-jaw out, and his eyes had a nasty
flitter, and the big stranger from way back,
piite unconscious of the impending trouble, began
Cos knock him about some more while he bided his
Ame. At length he got the opening, and, like
ightning, his right hand landed on the big fel-
low’s jaw and down he went. He pawed the back
>f his head feebly for some seconds, not quite
knowing where he was, and when he recovered
his senses he said his ankle was sprained, and re-
tired. Moral : When sparring with a stranger
lon’t belt him unnecessarily hard, until you know
ixaotly how good he is.
* * *
What price bookmakers now ? One of the
place-totalisators in Sydney paid £122 10s. for ss.
over the Winter Stakes run at Handwick on
Saturday. When do we hear of a bookmaker
offering 400 to 1 against a horse getting a place ?
* * *
Slavin spent a few days in Adelaide before
he left in the Carthage for England, and Mick
Tier arranged a friendly encounter of three rounds
vith Billy Williams. Slavin’s style was much
idmired and he found several good friends in the
loly town. Mick Tier made him a present of a
leautiful scarf-pin set with diamonds and rubies,
md he was also made the recipient of other
jewellery.
We have received from Mr. Adam Bede
he sum £7 14s. for Sydney Hospital, being the
commission of one per cent, on the amount sub-
scribed for his Benevolent Consultation on the
Coronation Handicap. Adam Bede is now re-
ceiving subscriptions for a consultation on the July
Handicap, and this, we are informed, is filling up
■apidly. We would remind winners of prizes that
lonations forwarded to us for the Hospital will be
iromptly acknowledged through our columns.
* * *
Searle, the sculler, is rumoured to be cul-
ivating a high-class taste for gold top (in strict
Moderation, you know), and some of the English ,
tapers say that the unsophisticated youth hasn’t
sufficient savee to shake off the “ wrong ’uns ” who
ire sniffing round and going into ecstacies over his
Australian biceps. We trust Searle will pull
hrough it all —afloat and ashore —as creditably as
Bill Beach did. Beach is half forgotten already.
#
Mr. Cox, boss of the Moonee Valley
(Melb.) Plumpton dog-tournament, intends to
uake next year’s Champion Stakes worth £2280.
N'.S.W. dwags had a splendid picnic in the one
lecided the other day, and coursers on this side of
the Murray wish Mr. Cox every success in his
venture.
* * *
Mr. J. L. Purves got into the last ties
for the Victorian Club billiard tournament. He
lost liis heat by two little points only.
# *
It is thought in N.Z. that of all the Maori-
land horses imthe -Melbourne Cup Maxim is the
best treated.
* * *
The unbreakable saddle is the last inven-
tion in the horsey world. The Bulletin wants
someone to invent an unbreakable bookmaker.
* * *
Tommy Corrigan, like a true son of ould
Girland, has changed the name of one of his
hurdle-racers from Duke of Wellington to Parnell.
.* # *
The False Prophet of the Soudan-is a mere
circumstance compared with the sporting prophets
of the Sydney Press. One of these recently tipped
to win at a certain meeting three horses which
were actually scratched before his paper was pub-
lished. Next week he furnished three horses for
every race, but only one of these nominated could
secure a place. At the recent Rosehill meeting he
was no more successful, for only one animal which
he had selected was placed.
* * *
The Y.R.C. Grand National Hurdle Race,
run at Flemington on Saturday (13th), has no
Malua entered this year. If Corythus goes to the
post, fit and well, lie will perhaps get home if lie
1 doesn’t tumble over in the meantime. But as the
at one time renowned Fred Swindells used to say :
“ It isn’t nice to see your money jumping up m the
air.” When you have landed the money there s
time enough to jump up in the air yourself. Eh,
bredderen ?
* * *
Is is exactly even money betting that the
Albury Foal Stakes for 1831 will be won by the
nomination of a Mr. Mitchell. Out of 40 entries
20 are made by Mitchell.
Chetwyrid—Cheatwynd.
Cohen ! Cohen ! —Gone !
More prosperity ! Another N.S.W. loan
is on the market. £3,500,000 worth of prosperity
this time.
William Shakespeare voted for payment of
members. He says (“Merry Wives,'] act xll.,
scene 4): “ Oh, what a world of vile, ill-favoured
faults looks handsome in three hundred pounds a
year. ”
Commercial Enterprise.
We have frequently drawn attention, in our
columns from time to time, to the satisfactory and
highly commendable transactions of the Citizen s ]
Life Assurance Company.
In our last Saturday’s issue we published a letter j
received by the Company from the wife of one of
the unfortunate miners who lost his life in the
recent Newcastle Colliery disaster. The liberality
and promptitude with which all claims are paid by
this office have made the name of the Company a
household word among the working classes through-
out the various colonies.
The Company’s business has grown so exten-
sively that never a day passes without claims on
policies being paid (and very often from accidental
deaths). This week we re-print a letter, which
appeared in the Geelong papers a few days ago.
The letter explains pretty clearly the case in point
and requires no comment from us.
Little Bond Street, Geelong, 18th June, 1889.
Resident Secretary Citizens’ Life Assurance Co., Mel-
bourne.
Dear Sir, —Accept my best thanks for the prompt and
unexpected payment of the amount payable on the policy
No. 314,275, issued by your company on the life of my
wife, Elizabeth Hannah (Jaton, who was accidentally
poisoned on the 27th April last. My wife having only paid
six weeks’ premiums at 6d. per week at the time of her
death, I was led to believe that nothing would be payable
under the circumstances, so did not trouble myself about
writing to the office to ascertain. A few days ago your
representative, now in the district, having’ accidentally
heard of her death, reported the mafjter to you, and to-
day he has called and handed me the* amount payable
viz., £2O Bs. Of the many hundreds of claims already
paid and published by the Citizens’ Life Assurance Com-
pany, Limited, throughout the Australian colonies, in no
case, I am sure, have the benefits of Industrial Life Assur-
ance come so unexpectedly—for I certainly never expected
to hear anything about the affair. Life Assurance Com-
panies carrying on business on such honourable and
liberal principles cannot fail to be a boon and a blessing to
the working classes. Again thanking you, lam yours
very truly,
Joseph Catox,
(Husband of the deceased).
The Company’s honorable and liberal dealings
have earned for itself a name that stands high in
the estimation of all who have closely watched its
career in the past, and we are pleased to learn that
its efforts are being appreciated among the masses
of the people, from the important fact that during
last year the Citizens’ office received more applica-
tions for policies than any other Australian Life
Office, and further, we notice that one of the lead-
ing Financial Assurance Journals in England, the
Commercial World of London, in an April issue
of this year (while reviewing the Citizens’ last
year’s balance-sheet) reports that the results indi-
cate continued, rapid, and substantial progress.
We feel it both a pleasure and a duty to commend
the Citizens’ Life office to the favourable notice of
our numerous readers who have not yet availed
themselves of the benefits and protection of an
Industrial Assurance policy.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ W.W.8.” ; The bushrangers were known tn
be armed and to be expert in the use of arms ; it is not
known that all the burglars are habitually armed, nor do
we think it would be wise to put the power in the
hands of a policeman, who might be timorous, ignorant,
or brutal, to shoot a man on mere suspicion, before be had
flashed his weapon or perhaps shown a disposition to
burgle. Then, while it would not be advisable to em-
power the policeman to shoot first, it would probably he
of little advantage to him to have the privilege of second
shot, for the carrying of a revolver would scarcely hav e
saved Sutherland’s life. On the other hand, the know-
ledge that policemen were armed would probably breed m
burglars an unpleasant habit of shooting on sight, while
the belated roysterer, sooner than run the risk of scaling
his own back-gate, would prefer to come home with the
milk, and thus, through the use of firearms, the tangled
web of human affairs would be made more complicated....
“No Work ” : Will read “ R.F.D.” (Healesville): Many
thanks “A. B. Fossicker”: Held 0ver....“ Bertha
S.” ; Please write to Mr. Marsh, P.M., Superintendent of
Water Police, Sydney,...“ A.W.C.” : Sorry the circum-
stances-to which reference has already been here made-
are now ancient history “T.J. L.” (Ad.): Please write
again and often.... “C.H.C.” : You ask us, “Whether a
knowledge of human nature such as our best character
novelists had would be useful to a barrister or solicitor
in the practice of his profession?” Of course it would, and if
you had, or were even capable of acquiring, an-y knowledge
of human nature you wouldn’t ask such a silly question....
“A.T.”: We know nothing of the sweep-promoter you
mention “Boothia”: No question of responsibility
regarding the recent Newcastle colliery disaster has yet
been raised, ..“Possum”; Rhyme not bad hut treat-
ment namby-pamby. We’d sooner join the Primrose
League and print a Union Jack on our front cover than
publish anything namby-pamby....“ Miner ”: We give
, some of your verses:—
P. 8.” (Singleton) ; Received “ Kangaroo” :
Thanks. Will read “ Leprechaun” : Poor Deasy !
Give him a rest ...“D.D.” (Tintenbar) : Brochure to
hand. It is unlawful to omit the printer’s name—
“ Colonial ” : The sergeant’s action was illegal. He
could be proceeded against for using threatening language.
.“W.E.C.”: Very sorry if the paragraph re-
ferred to you, but how do you know it did ?,....
“ A.E.” ; D’ye mark how the parson is always the first to
run for The Bulletin at a reading-room ? Confound him,
he likes it. After all, we are much the same at bottom.
Same old Adam. It refreshes our parson so to get out of
the groove. He relishes the free, breezy air. The mind
to him a kingdom is. Nobody can imprison that. So he
will enjoy his Bulletin. We write for him most. It tickles
him you know “ Australia Felix ” : Many thanks—
“Anser” : The Chartists made Payment of Members of
Parliament one of the “points” in thei.i Charter
“ Ananias”: Are doing our very best to decipher your
hieroglyphics.... “ Marion ” : The High Church party vili
win in the long run. Those Australians who interest
themselves in such things will, by force of climatic in-
fluence, favour a florid form of religion “Hiram ':
We don't altogether agree with you. Perhaps it was
better for the police to allow the man to perform his
alleged horrible crime than to prevent his performing it.
As the matter apparently stands there is now a strong
chance of society getting rid of him for g00d.... “ J.K.” :
No “ H.G.D.” : Will use sooner or later.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
High Art Photography.—For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington “ By Appointment.”
In these blooming days of ’B9
Good syndicates are few,
While would-be ones are prowling round
And want to deal with yon.
“ Under offer ” they'd like your property
Just for a month or two,
But unless a “ boom ” sets in, my boys,
They’ll only humbug you.
There are miners on the field, my boys,
Who’ve worked hard night and day
A-sinking on their shots of gold,
A-trying to make ’em pay ;
Then in comes Mr. Syndicate
With no money to see it through,
And unless a “ boom ” sets in, my boys,
He’ll only humbug you.


BEALE <sc CO.’S
NEW WAREHOUSE.
■
o
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
482* 484* & 488 George Street*
SYDNEY.
REVOLUTIONISING
THE FIA.3WO TRA.DE.
Messrs. Beale & Co.'s Great Enterprise.
mil ERE can be no questioning the fact that the Piano
L Trade of these Colonies has undergone a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desirable
change certainly no firm has contributed more than
Messrs. Beale and Company. During the time high prices
continued the trade was held by a few, and hundreds of
homes now rendered attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce could dream of becoming the ultimate
owners of the instrument which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic life.
When Beale and Company commenced business they
had quietly gauged this condition of affairs in Australia,
and they began operations on a plan which could alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such as
they proposed. With the Australian selling branch of
i heir enterprise they resolved to combine the manufacture
of Pianos in Germany— the centre of the world s trade for
that instrument. But the experts sent out here for the
purpose of fully determining what was best fitted for
colonial requirements reported that it was essenlial to
have a special make of piano to suit our climate - an in-
strument. as different as those made for Europe as Aus-
tralia is different from the Old World. The result of this
was the production of the staunchest pianoforte of
modern times the iron-framed “ Hapsburg.” The in-
strument is regarded by the most capable experts of
Europe as the Production of the Age, combining as
it does-every feature of the highest class instrument with
t he maximum of strength and durability, and it was placed
on the market at prices much under what other firms and
manufacturers had previously demanded. Although it
took almost endless trouble and long, patient labour to
produce the design of the “ Inimitable Hapsburg,” yet once
produced the demand grew so rapidly, and has become so
great, that the enterprising originators are able,to out-
distance all competitors for both quality and price. The
peculiar construction of the iron frame, the excellence
of the wires, and the unique movements have, with all
other factors,, contributed to -this splendid success. No
other instrument possesses to the same, degree such rich,
full, clear, bell-like tones, so noticeable in the “ Haps-
hurg,” especially in the higher grades, while strength,
solidity, and imperviousness to climatic influences have
been so well looked to that whether on the coldest, bleak-
est, spots of New Zealand or our own Monaro Plains, or in
the hottest of our Western and Northern ‘areas, this
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, hut improves its
tone and consequent value even after years of use. And
it must continue so. The genius and experience of the
mechanical world in this branch of art are embodied in
this one instrument - the inimitable “ Hapsburg and
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute m which
it is field. r > Beale & Company have placed the
Hapsburg” with thousands offamilies in Australia.
Homes in the far-distant back blocks, and homes in the
city, arc not only enlivened but are made purer and better
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved to
do a" large trade by selling these superior instru-
ments at prices and on terms demanded for the
lower grades, and success has crowned their efforts.
They do by far the largest business, and hold the
largest stocks in the colonies. They give their best
efforts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Time-payment which they have made peculiarly
their own. The correspondence department is of itself a
huge undertaking ; every mail brings its burden of letters.
, From the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
the astute merchant they come. And they came too
from clergymen, from doctors and solicitors, from civil
servants, and from the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every grade
and class now recognise the influence which music exerts
for good in the life of the home. And every writer re-
ceives courteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsburg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the following Advantages—
-Ist. —The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverberated
by a sounding board of special construction, arc
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tin-
kettly, or metallic sounds sb common in cheap
Pianos.
2nd.—Being double oblique the Strings are of a
greater length and fuller tone than in the old
straight-strung Pianos.
3rd.—The action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4th. —All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord,
fith. —They are all seven Octaves.
Oth. —They have consolidated Iron Frames of
great strength, thus resisting the. rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate,"■ whereby tuning is
only required at long intervals,
h. —They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cock-
roaches, silver-fish, mice, &c. They have wire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by vermin,
and other unique improvements devised for
Bimiliar ends.
Bth. The Pelts are Clinched on the Hammers,
instead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every Piano except the Haps-
burg.
9th, —They have brass or nickel-faced Wrest-
planks, instead of the old-fashioned perishable
style.
10th. —Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
11 tli.—The outer cases arc handsome in design,
and of durable beautiful woods; they can he
had in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or in
ebony and gold.
12th.—No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a Hapsburg Piano
upon easy terms of payment. _ No charge-will he
made for packing or for packing cases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by post or from onr
Own travellers everywhere.
The other day a Melbourne policeman took
a prisoner to the lock-up in a flour-sack. He had
bagged his game.
A policeman commuted suicide at Richmond
Downs,' Queensland, the other day. His name
was Killjelly. .That name probably, was the
death of him. ’ .
A Lovely Ayn Delicate is obtained
by using Howlands’ Kat.ydok, an emollient- and harmless
milk tor the fare, hands, and arms ; it removes .sunburns
tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin, cutaneous
e.options, &c., arid produces soft, fair, and delicate skill.
Avoid metallic and greasy.cosmetics, which ruin the skin.;
Howla.ndjS Onovro, a nomgritty tooth .powder, whitens
the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’ articles.
Special Advertisements.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
42 ]lMCa.x*S'£LX*e't Street
Between George and York Streets). .PlO. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for continuation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, ISSti ; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, .-NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, wliich enables.him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of theii; complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case ho undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing hut an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies,- therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly, understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home, The course of treatment will
not iu any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. . Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, Ml)., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Oflice Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to' 12 a.m. ;-2to 4 and*7 to 8 pan. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
N.S. W. “ received more shoes from abroad
that} any other country in the world.” You see,
such a lot of people die in their boots in N.S.Wi-
lt has just transpired that one of the re-
gular suburban correspondents of an even mg
paper is an .inspector of nuisances. The man
with the muck-rake, in fact. Ought to suit 'em.
When next you hake try Pemell's Snow-white Patent
Roller Floor,"and your bread will he as white us snow.
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, RousHlen, Madeira,
.Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to he had"from Hookings of 410 George-slreet, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.
Special Advertisements.
E. C. ELEY
k
sS
<3
0:
A
&
fo
O
<b
«
r
V
&
*
*
&
«K
&
v°
r
<f
*
o
£
&
<b
&
O
JfcC
af!
o
<b
v
*
*
o
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDISTHY.
: :^ :'• • ;; ;•;; ■
fe»- ■•- ■■'■ • -f- ■.i~j*stoJrS
a. at
■■ PSL ■
‘"KR.W!
„
■ ■ '4. ; ■ ■ y^d
I . if. A
ri
- •fi i' *
* fl
1- ' J
lint Eli
•jiij
B
—if
m
UEJiUiil Pllfltß-Uifi. CtU i BBU)C£-ST- mail*
The Oxford Hotel, Kling Street, Sydney.
IT. THORPE ...” “ Ppoprie'l’Oß.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOCK JUST LAUDING
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYDNEY.
Solo Agents .for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)—
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the ROOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the following Spkcia?, Links r IVeclcss V|om. Salln I'ollsli, Nubian
Blacking,'. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. PT Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DU. RICH ARDS.
LTIW
m
CONSU
n'R RICHARUST^ggSB
mi’ it inniiimii
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his trtedical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness lo his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un.
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of ehrly follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago. bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness dining
the day, circles round the eyes, 1 '.Giddiness
irregularity of the bowel l , specks before the eyes,
bashfulncfs, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and bead, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blcod, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms w'hich load to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of fid. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expenee This
hook will prove a valuable c mpanion, and even
though you be p rfect’y well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after Iris case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant
ONE BOUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the euro of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He wil
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
;n the volume will bo found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses not king hut the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
Will remain a secret between the doeto- and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully t reated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring: Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE.
CAUSE EOR GRIEVANCE.
F lathers ; “What's the matter, Mrs. Duffy—yez seem out of sor-rts?”
M»S. Duffy : “ An’ enough to make me. Duffy’s gone oft’ on a drunk and hell
be batin’ the loife out of some wan else. It’s the first toime since our
marriage he neglected me !


Boots and Shoes.
k
FASHION,
FIT, and
FINISH T
juuUk + FOK
•'
I- YOURSELVES
We Have in Stock
; ~ ' ■ AND '
Make to Order
k
The Finest Hand Sewn ■
Boots and Shoes
at PRICES
THAI'
DEFY COMPETITION!
k
A Visit will prove the above Assertions.
The Co-Operative
Boot Making Company
(Opposite David Jones and Go.),
376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
H. HILDER, —r
e< )OT UPPER MANUFACTURER,
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
689 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
fish i fish : fish :
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
To Pish Consumers in Town & Country.
WE ARE PREPARED TO SUPPLY
Pish Frozen in Solid Blocks of Ice,
5 iish desired.
10E GRATIS! lOE GRATIS!
mocks d dive red free at JtaUm>, fitatuw,
.carry lo any part of the colony, jor Av. bd. pet block t.iU .
Instructions sent with each package how to treat the
fish so that they will keep lor several days. the h alt
■ obtained direct from the fishing groundand
perfectly fresh and sweet. ,
c , nm , P Blocks will be Forwarded on receipt
SfPostofficeOrdor for the Amount.
All orders to he sent to the Hurls
Kensington St,, Sydney ,
T. D. KYLE
Manager.
THE-
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
m'A'NCFACTBR ers 0F •
iS.tearine and Paraffin Oandks,
4, COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerins, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original—-
"Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
KIBBLE & COMPANY,
-SIGN WRITERS-
AN 0
art DECORATORS;
22 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
hr,-.
- ■
SATIN
y XADISS’
pWiLDfie^J
boston .
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
FOR— .
LADIES' AND CHILDREN’S
LOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded hadicst honors at
Phila., 1870 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881 ]
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1880
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every Lottie,
Beware of Imitations.
■ This'Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
10 the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can he used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
MUSICAL.
.PATENT SCALE INDICATOR, for Pupils Learning the
' Piano. Price, 3s. 6d, And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. (id., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted - Stationers.
Miscellaneous.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bllgh Street,
SYDNEY.
ZB 1 . SOHBODEE,
LIVERY," BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMM I.S-
- HI ON STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire ; also, good reliable Ladits or Gentle-;
men’s Hacks.
PULVERMACHER’S
World-Famed Galvanic Belts,
FOR THE CUBE OE
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.”
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST AND SHIPMAN,
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE BY POST for six PENNY Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 70(5, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
W ALTEB H O lE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
(CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, hive Stock, etc..
j received and realised in the best markets. Account
Wales and Proceeds remitted the day after » ,e -
-executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Sett ng
t o be addressed as usual to WALTER; HOT £, Bonny Jigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
JOHN BXT CKHAM,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Baker’s Cart Covers, Horse Lugs, Nose Bags,
Oiled Loin Cloths, Cab Aprons. Send to or call at
JOHN BUCKHAM,
449 ELIZABETH STREET, M ELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the. Trade).
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
C 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1.125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application. R CiIBLIN.
Business Announcements.
°N/.y
*
ON
rSt-
MURDER!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest selected Virginia
Sropa by F. W. Saywell, of 6
it will
ARREST
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure brands now on
the market. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the numer-
ous poisons
IMPRISONED
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, and obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Retail from
F* W* Saywell k Co M
6 Park Street,
SYDNEY
\ \ I
N
=!*»
m
m
Vits
5 - /
Phonographic
Views
PORpV\lTS
k
<A V
BORfCmES
ss. islands ,
3(6,GNOMES
k
318 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ElIilZASETli:
ga-rmsisiis’is
IMPOl’.TFItS OF-
Pboioga hie
Materials
AND
Chemicals
FOP.
Professionals
AND
Amateurs.
W I I
1 ....... r c' ‘ » 1 ,J !
liia^T
; 1
t!
m : I . ■
Iti.ltl
unr’jiiiiimniw
Cameras,
AMATEUR
OUTFITS,
i :
; Dry Places,
Magic
AX’D
Enlarging
Lanterns.
Send for Mew Illustrated Catalogue.
Sporting.
Adam Bede’s
Benevolent Consultations.
“Ml THE YEAR ROUND.”
Twenty years before the Public.
Melbourne Cap Programmes now ready.
One of Adam Bede’s commission on all
future events will he devoted to charily.
NOW OPEN
July Handicap,
Hun at Rosehill,
JULY 20, 1889.
SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH
J'lHST HORSE ... £160(1
SECOND HORSE ... 600
THIRD HORSE ... 400
Starters, £600; Non-starters, £800; to be
divided amongst them.
Adam. Bede’s
Is the only fair method of drawing.
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever he divulged by Adam
Bede until after the races have been run.
Subscribers must register their letters to ensure safe
delivery, and must enclose stamps and envelopes tor
reply and result, and adiMs. exchange to cheques.
Address—
“ ADAM BEDE,”
Care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
k
Spare & Compass
CLUB -
-ss. Consultations. ss.
An unlimited number of member?
at ss. each.
FIRST HORSE
SECOND HORSE
THIRD HORSE
50 per cent.
30 per cent.
20 per cent.
N.B.— The Square and Compass Club closes all ('on-
sullatioiis at the hours advertised, posts and distributes
results half-an-hour before each race—thus showing the
boon fide* of the affair. The rooms where the telegrams
are posted can he visited by subscribers only. The full
results of every event are always advertised in the Sunday
Times and Referee following the races.
Motto ; “ Fair and Square.”
fg* Look' at the Dividends we have paid on the Don
caster Handicap t Russley, itto IS. (id. ; Plutarch, Xi
'2s. 9d. ; Kady Kingsboro’ £l2 3s. lOd.
CONSULTATION ON EVERY EYENT.
Note the address of the original
Square & Compass Club,
Care o e M. Fa t. At,
«r,rt G FOIIGFi STR FFT «
COLONNADE.
*■ TATTERS ALL’S ”
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal vacs3 through-
out the year.
See Evening News “ Brevities ” for full par-
ticulars, or write to “ Tattersall, ” care cf Ceo.
Adams, Pitt-street, Sydney.
jack THOMPSON-,
if ember of Tattermll’s (Sydney), and Victorian
Club (Melbourne),
Desires to warn the public of Australia that he
has NO connection with any advertised or other
consultation promoted by a person using - the
name of “J. Thompson.” Previous warnings
have been given, but the swindle is still being
carried on successfully.
Books Open on Forthcoming - Events.
Country communications dealt with promptly.
N.B.—Jack Thompson’s ONLY Addresses are-
-220 PITT STREET. SYDNEY,
AND
TATTERSALL’S CLUB, SYDNEY.
[Mention this Paper.]
Business Announcements.
ciiUfciU
YAH
‘SThefi fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried.’’
(Signed) Marie Rose.
THE
Y*
PATENT
“Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not, Split, in the Seams
noi' Tea Pi u the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect,
Comfort , Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine V& N
Corset stamped “Y& N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 11C,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
I OHN BEIDGI & 0 0.,
' CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
DARLING HARBOUR,
W OOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, <£•<?.
ATKT SALESMEN.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
For SALE. — A Quantity of Second-hand
NEWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) in ease
and bulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer, Bulletin Office.


Government Advertisements.
T
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
July 0, 1889.
ENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions see Government Gazette.
Dates to which
| Tenders
can be received
I at this office.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Additional Cells, Lismore Gaol
Iron Bridge, Redbournebery,
Hunter River—Contract 1 (Ma-
terial)
Roofing Police Buildings, Albury
Flooring Dormitories, Hospital
for Insane, Parramatta
Additions, &c., Gaol, Balranald
Additions to Wharf, Seven Oaks,
Maoleay River (fresh tenders)
Iron Staircase, Government Print-
ing Office
Additions, Coast Hospital, Little
Bay
Blakehurst Bridge, Kogarah-
road (fresh tenders)
Bridge, Wilson’s Creek, Clunes
to Byron Bay (ditto)
Bridge, Rouse Hill Creek, Wind-
sor, Parramatta-road
Cottage for Farm Attendant,
Hospital for the Insane, Callan
Park
Roofing Hospital for the Insane,
Parramatta
Alterations, Lockup Gaol, Casino
Repairs, &c., Training-ship, Vernon
Bridge, Darling River, at Wil-
cannia—Gont. No. 1 (time ex-
tended)
Bridge, Darling River, at Wilcan-
nia—Cont. No. 2. (Time ex-
tended)
Repairs, Fencing, &c,, Post and
Telegraph Office, Booligal
Wednesday,
July 17,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
July 31,
it 11 o’clock,
W ednesday,
August 14,
it 11 o’clock
BRUCE SMITH.
: , General Post Office,
Sydney,' 9th July, 1889.
ATTENTION is directed to Gazette Notice
inviting Tenders for the’ Conveyance of
Mails between Queanbeyan and Uriarra, Bolivia
and Clive, Ulladulla and Kiola.
Tenders will be received up to, the 7th proximo,
and must be addressed to the - Secretary to the
Post Office, Sydney.
DANIEL O’CONNOR.
I
M
K
ei
•o
,N
k
E NTS .
DELISSAi PHILLIPS
3»0 Barrack Street.
«eioOo- FOR lOs. 6d.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Kill, Sydney,
H,ave been appointed General Agents for ttie
Sandhurst Monster Art Union.
First Frize, £1000; Second, £500; Third., £2OO
IN ALL, 600 PRIZES, VALUED £2705.
SBIMO x FOR x TICKETS x A.T x OKTOE!
To be Drawn at Sandhurst on 31st July.
See “Daily Telegraph,” “Evening News,” and other portions of this paper.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 cSz 24 CLA.REKTCE STREET, SYDNEY.
First Award!
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
SIB, SHOTS, BIffIOARDS,
PONY CARTS, &c., &C,
Express & Lumber Waggons*
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Hour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
■
A boy fell into the river Moyne (Vic.) the
other day. There was a Salvation Army Captain
on the bank. lie didn't call out to the drowning
lad “ Are you saved, my friend ; ” no, he jumped
in and saved him.
D
Shipping.
IRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany’, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
* Not calling at Colombo.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
Medical.
a:
tocruCW
Dr. H. EWART FLETCHER
Sufferers from NERVOUS DEBILITY can yet a
clear insight into their cases by sending for Dr.
Fletcher’s Treatise on “Nervous Complaints,” their
Cause, Symptoms, Treatment and Cure.
This admirable treatise is specially written to show
a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretion in early life, overwork, irregularity in eating
or drinking, etc., etc., all of which bring in their train
a number of diseases which are generally classed
under the head of Nervous Complaints. Dr. Fletcher
has spent a great many years in the study of these
diseases, and has treated a large number of cases
during Ifis private practice, and, in consequence of
the success that has attended his efforts, has decided
to bring his medicines more prominently before the
public, and to give to sufferers generally the benefit
of his great experience in these diseases. Dr. Flet-
cher wishes it to be distinctly understood that he
reserves to himself the right of refusing to undertake
any case, but if he does undertake it, he is willing to
give a Wkittrk Guauantr* to cure same, or return
all moneys paid. Persons of both sexes who ex-
perience the following symptoms, viz., Dizziness,
Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the Back, Defective
Memory, Loss of Energy and Vitality and Will Power,
Constipation, Premature Decay, Liver and Kidney De-
rangements, &c., &c., should send for this book at
once, as it contains in a concise form, simple directions
to overcome same.
Remember, Dr. Fletcher does not wish to infer that
he can perform miracles, but merely claims to be
thoroughly skilled in the treatment of these diseases.
Thousands have been cured by him, and he invites
sufferers to investigate his statements, by vending
the testimonials published in his treatise. Dr. Flet-
cher’s treatment is both simple and effective, and
within the reach of the poorest. The treatise will be
forwarded on receipt of two stamps, to cover postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FRSB,
Address in first instance:
Da. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, Q.P.0., Sydney.
Private Residence: “ Clonmel,” Warerlay.
T|R. SMITH, TT.S.-A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
tfos. 7 Sc 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
1 PECIALIST A ACCOUCHEUR.
Gases of a Private and Confidential Nature in Loth Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation:
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
C 4 V'ctoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
SYDNEY
Art Unions.
JOHN S-A.ZN'IDS’
ART XJKTIO3XT,
FOB THE BENEFIT OF
The Hospital for Sick Children*
Glebe Point, Sydney.
Trustees :
His Honor Mr. Justice Stephen; Hon. Geo. H. Reid,
M.L.A. ; E. L. Montefiore, Esq. ; Professor T. P.
Anderson-Stuart, M.D. ; 0. Cecil Griffiths, Esq. ;
H. 0. Kent, Esq. ’ ~
MR. JOHN SANDS has the honour to
inform the Australian public that he has
arranged to dispose of his very large and valuable
collection of high-class
ENGRAVINGS, ETCHINGS,
PHOTOGRAVURES, «ScC.,
By means of an Art Union officially sanctioned
by the Hon. the Attorney-General.
25 Per cent, will be given to the Hospital for
Sick Children.
5000 Tickets at One Guinea Each 5000
UNPRECEDENTED CHANCE!
EVERY TICKET WILL TAKE A PRIZE.
UNPARALLELED OEFER!
Every Prize Worth not less than
One Guinea.
£l5O First Prize. ) £l5O
Will consist of Twelve Magnificent Engravings,
Etchings and Photogravures,
ALL HANDSOMELY FRAMED.
Second Prize, £100; Third Prize, £5O; Fourth
Prize £25; Fifth Prize, £l5 15s; 3 at £l2 12s. ;
29 at £lO 10s. ;40 at £8 Bs.; 40 at £7 7s; 80 at
£6 65.; 80 at £5 55.; 150 at £4 45.; 190 at £3 3s;
250 at £2 25.; the remainder, 4133, at £1 Is. each.
iar“ EVERY TICKET TAKES A PRIZE!
THE DRAWING
will probably take place about the end of August.
The Prizes are now on View at
JOHN SANDS' NEW FINE ART GALLERY,
322 GEORGE STREET 322
Tickets and Prospectuses may be had on appli -
cation to
J. A. STANLEY ADAM, Secretary.
I|IHE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME,
£lOOO for 10s. 6d,
The Sandhurst Mechanics’ Institute
Art Union.
First Prize, £lOOO ; Second Prize, £500;
Third Prize, £2OO.
597 Other Prizes, Total Value, £2705.
The DRAWING will positively take place at
SANDHURST, on 31st July next.
Remember, a FORTUNE for 10s. Cd.
Tickets, 10s. 6d., may be had from the general
agents, Messrs. CRAIG and AITKEN, George-
street, Sydney, or NICHOLSON and CO.’S,
King and George streets; J. Kirby, J. W. M.
Clarke, Booksellers, George-street; H. Wallace,
496 George-street; Priddy and Co., George-street,
Brickfield Hill; T. C. Drew, 256 Pitt-street;
Alexander and Farrow, Levy and Scott, Tobac-
conist, Oxford-street; and at Newcastle, from A.
D. Robertson, Tobacconist, or from
J. H. OURNOW, Secretary, Sandhurst.
Western Australia,
The Coming Colony,
Is rapidly progressing. Her vast Mineral Resources
are being opened wp, and property is hardening in
value.
Make a Profitable Investment and Purchase
Land at
The Capital Cm,
Allotments right in the City!
From £33 Each ,
Allotments close to the City,
Prom Ten Founds each Lot.
Good Land. Well Situated. Easy Terms.
Title Guaranteed Indisputable.
Pamphlets and Marked Plans Post Free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Co.,
LIMITED,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
K/^
0
THE FHOKTEORA-FH,
The most remarkable invention of modern days.
Thirty thousand sold in two months. Sent, post raid,
with full instructions to any address in Australia, on
receipt of Money Order for five shillings addressed to the
ELECTRIC MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
LIMITED,
6 Wilmott St., off George St., Sydney.
Stamps of all colonies taken.
FOR SALE.—Second-hand Quad -Demy
Folder, by Habrild; Cheap. Apply The
Bulletin office
Sydney D.T. says, apropos of the Redfern
election that the Freetrade party “ aro now fully
aware of the strength of the other side.” Which
is precisely what we said when our grandmother
put us across her knee and walloped us with a
shingle.
The moral of the outcome of the Deasy
Letters Enquiry is that a man can’t make love and
attend t > politics at the same time. 1 oor Deasy
will get the life chaffed out of him the first time
he shows his nose in the big lobby of the House of
Commons, and the chiefs of the Home , Rule
party will meet and make a solemn resolution
only to send decent married men on future patriotic
missions to Australia.
The Sydney Unitarians seem to appreciate
the work done by their new minister, and will
tender him a complimentary social on- the 23rd.
Besides his two discourses on Sundays, Mr.
Walters has given a number of popular lectures in
the Church, and his Saturday evening lectures at
the Pitt-street School of Arts have generally been
crowded. He is also a member of the Council of
the new National Association.
The chief feature of an enjoyable picnic
given at Middle Harbour, Sydney, on Independence
Day by General 1 towel! aiid Messrs Donald Manson,
Clifford and Livingston Hopkins, was a recitation
by*Mr. Titheradge about a certain noble American
Sunday-school teacher who, having taken his
scholars out for a sleigh-ride, found himself pur-
sued by wolves, and who nobly sacrificed himself
—not much! No, he threw overboard, little
Bobby, who always forgot to bring any pennies
with him to Sabbath-school, and then he made
dogs’-meat of little Nebuchadnezzar with the
squeaky boots, and so on right down the gamut;
and, “ the wolves getting heavier while the sleigh
grew lighter,” he landed safely his own heroic
carcase right in the main street of the township,
ever so many lengths ahead, and then went down
on his holy marrowbones and returned thanks to
Divine Providence. The company, which included
a number of politicians and pressmen, returned to
town delighted with their day’s outing.
Mr. Sche” who defeated the Foreign-trade
nominee, Mr. Anderson, by 25 votes, at Redfern,
on Monday, obtained the highest Protectionist
vote yet taken at Redfern. Both candidates were
merely' persons of aldermanie calibre; the issue,
therefore, solely depended upon external forces.
The Foreign-trade press ill conceals its chagrin at
a result so much at variance with the loud-voiced
prophecies of Puls ford and other mouthpieces of
the dying cause. One paper proves to its own
satisfaction that the Freetrade candidate was de-
feated because the Freetrade voters stayed away
from the poll. It is equally true that Schey’s
majority was 25 instead of 250, merely because a
lot of Protectionist voters stayed away—some of
them by reason of the fact that the Government
gerrymandered the polling-day. If the Foreign-
trade cause is one which fails to arouse the en-
thusiasm of its supporters at a critical time, then
all the worse for the Calico ring. As a matter of
fact, the Protectionist nominee polled 19 more
votes than did Mr. Howe, the Protectionist can-
didate who polled the greatest number of votes at
last general election. Much capital was then
made by the Foreign-traders out of the late Mr.
Sutherland’s big majority ; but Monday’s election
demonstrates that it was not Sutherland’s prin-
ciples (for the old man never had any fiscal
principles) but his personal popularity, that then
sent him up top. Sutherland’s popularity was
such that, had he lived, the year 2000 a.d. would
still have seen him representing Redfern. ' With
the return to N.S. Wales of the globe-trotting
Protectionists, Goodchap and See, and the wrest-
ing from Foreign-trade of one of its Redfern seats,
parties are now so evenly balanced in the N.S.W.
Assembly that another appeal to the country
seems inevitable. Parkes knows that N.S.W. is
standing with bared arms ready to administer the
coup de grace to Foreign-trade, and his policy, no
doubt, will be to stave off an appeal to the country
until Henry George arrives. Parkes at this junc-
ture resembles the hardly-beset Wellington at
Waterloo, and the apostle of the Single-Tax
League is his Blucher. History will not repeat
itself in the ultimate result of the conflict. Pro-
tectionists, when they camp .on the field, will not
be bewailing their Waterloo, but will be rejoicing
over their Austerlitz. Protection is the John the
Baptist of Australian Nationalism, and it has
already prevailed everywhere save in the old
colony of N.S. Wales, which is, for purely his-
torical causes, only a little less Tory, so far as its
dominant class is concerned, than Tasmania.


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan £ Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL - <£500,000-
Sydney Office ;
Corner of MARKET and YORK. STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Offices :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
(Next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices; ... Hunter Street.
The Company" grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of
interest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS ;
Three Months ... 5 per cent.
Six ~ ' ... 6 ~
Twelve ~ ... 7 ~
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months,
renewed,' 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
£he Anglo-Australian (Investment,
finance & Land Company, (Ltd.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,000
Head Office: - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney,
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P.
Vice-Chairman: F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
Loudon Olllce ..31 Lombard Street, B.C.
Chairman: Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
mHIS Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
-*- result of wise and enterprising management, has won
jts way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
Deposits received in Larse or Small amounts’
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES ... Manager
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
( Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187 U.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: 301 PITT STREET
AGENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following; are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits :—3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. :
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager.
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING-, AMALGAMATING,
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OP SYDNEY.
Works; CLYDE, N.S.W
Head Office: 46 OASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
James Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; Jambs A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney :
T. D. Merton, Ounningar Works, Harden; Charles-
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
{but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Ounningar, near Harden.
I*or further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
Patent Unbreakable Saddle
COMP AN T, LIMITED.
Factory and Office— 24s Castleebagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreakable
Saddles is now carried on at our
Mew Premises, 245 Castlereagh St., Sydney,
where Trade Orders will receive prompt attention.
tgr None Genuine without our Trade Mark. TEt
Caution. —The Sole Right of the above Patent
having been’ purchased by the undersigned, Sad-
dlers and the Public generally are cautioned against
any infrii ge ents of the same.
For Kee Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
LimM<
F. C. Hkdemann, \
L. 0. Henderson, /
Trustees
Miscellaneous.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Roller Slour and ©rain l|tore6,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Boiler Flour
—AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89. ~'
T .EOMARP (3-'W'ST3Nr,
General Business So Hotel Broker,
No. 8, Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite G.P.O).
• Nothing but Straightforward Business Done.—
No Sale No Charge.
GWYN.
Miscellaneous.
The British and New South Wales Investment
anil Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
“DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Jj Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits;—
3 Years 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months 8 per cent.
3 Months .... .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
AS! GAS! GAS!
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
Join tire Gas Consumer’s Protective
Association,
No. 110 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
F. W. CURNOW, Manager.
Office Hours : 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturday.
Holt & W inning,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTORS,
42 DOWN STREET, COLLINGWOOD,
MELBOURNE.
All kinds of Scenery made on the Shortest Notice.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
o-
Hotels.
BourkeS 1
ELEOIME
TRAMS
eveut few
PASS
! minutes
FXracl HOTEL!
mmM
-• ■ '
IMSII
J.A.WILSON
PRQPKitTOP
GY/.CLARE
[g? MANACtIt
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURSE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is —
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three Hmuired. lMCra.sii.ific3e3a.-fc Bedroozus,
Which are Lofty and Well-Yentilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD .WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
Each Eloor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric. Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
m~ TWO PASSEMGEB OTIS LIFTS.
M
Ladies' Boudoir* Drawing* Smoking* and Reading Rooms.
)_ {
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. tip to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook & Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms : Single Bedroom, 2s. 6d. per KTiglit.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &e., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
CLAIMINDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent, view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in, fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hote at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony. ’
Mrs. tttt .'ATTixrSTJiIJA, Clarexxciozx Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
T.OHG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites- First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG- - - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNS TIL LB.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured!
The Greatest Success
of Modern Times.
CONSULT
/All Chronic Diseases
\ are Curable. •
MR. XX. E. KUGELMAMN,
CONSULTING ECLECTIC,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases.
60 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more;
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July, 1888. ~
To H. E. Kugelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Kiiight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating
me for five months, he honestly informed me that my case
was incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any
longer, and he advised me not to take any more chemists’
medicines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was
poison. I then pressed him for a true statement of my
case, and he very reluctantly informed me that I was
suffering from Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that
I was quite incurable. During the time I was attended
by the above doctors, I was not able to lie down in my
bed, and expectorated many quarts of blood and matter
from my lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this
time I saw your advertisement and decided to consult you,
which I did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished
me by informing me minutely of the exact nature of my
complaint without my giving you any information, and
even without your having sounded or examined me. But
my astonishment was greatly increased when you told me
that you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite
agreement, which I gladly availed myself of. After having
taken your medicines for a month I was considerably
worse ; expectorating very much, and throwing up several
pieces of skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of
my hand ; but after this crisis I commenced to improve
very fast. After three months treatment the expectora-
tion and cough entirely left me, and I had gained over
two stone in weight, a result which my friends considered
little short of miraculous, as all expected I would soon
die ; and from that time (thanks to your most wonderful
skill and ability) I have not felt any return of my com-
plaint, and my lungs are as strong as ever they were, and
I can do as good and as hard a day’s work as I ever did.
I am sure that people diseased and suffering should avail
themselves of your treatment, and not delay as I did until
I was given up to die. —I remain, ever thankfully yours
FRANK E. E. KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Gore
kot being Effected.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
jA. ddress
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY, ,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
—— J. js? " 3E3 Jtrk. lE3,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Business Announcements.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
k-TUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
E mal to New, at
J . SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Beicilfield Hill,-Sydney,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts .
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
ROOWBY and O 0.,
SAW MILLERS,
timber # Steam gainers,
TOWNSVILLE,
LARGEST Stock of Orbgan Pine and Colonial Timbers,
Sashes, Doors, &c., in Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a Speciality.
Country and Station Orders promptly despatched
P. C. NICHOLLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
738 George Street, 738
■n
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET
Wedding Cakes, Ssc., Made to Order.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.


P VOJ^W‘ NT TO HIS#
f.
an
bi
~9
S
ft
LONDON
SILVERSMITHS
oo
QC
Bktwkes the POST OFFICE and KING STREET.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Dingmaii’s electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market.
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of ‘'elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de lanes, and the finest fabrics. It re-
moves paint and grease stains from clothing with
very little labour; indeed, if it will perform half
what is claimed to be within range of its powers
its introduction into our households will be quite
a startling domestic revolution.
Red Gum.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
You can’t find them in Anthony Trollope ;
George Augustus Sala never saw them ; the
Year Book of Australia ” mentions the in-
dustry but not the men. Therefore, for the use of
historians and statisticians, I put them on record
I mean the sawmill men of the Murray and O vens
In their own cheery language they are called Red-
gummies.
This is how I first knew them. One Saturday
night 1 was in a Wangaratta hostelry in company
with a lot of jolly young fell ws, who played instru-
ments and sang and danced and drank and (pane
peccatonbus) swore as merrily as grigs. What
grigs are I know not, and whether they swear is
to me, a mystery. But grigs are merry.
u o asked the landlady who my friends were.
sawmill men,” that was the answer. I
told her they might wash their hands. “ Stains
<n gum, you stupid.” So I forgave them.
Fvery well-dressed, respectable young man in
Wangaratta or Yarrawonga may safely be put
down as a Redgummy. Since living among them
1 have found out some grand truths which they
? IS P he / help one another ; they are not
tied down to class or clannish prejudices.
It does not matter what country or religion you
claim, you are welcome at the sawmill if you can
do your work The traveller is fed. They respect
according to Divine Law— the stranger that is within
my gates. 1 can’t say they are provident men. If
there is a fortnightly pay they are “brokers”
second week; and if they receive their
stuff monthly, for two weeks they have to
strap it up at father's. Father is the generic name
for the landlord of the adjacent public-house. I
regret to state that there is generally a convenient
father to every sawmill The old men hand over
every shilling to father and are never clear ; but
the youngsters have always a pound or two on
pay-day for the town, and can wear a boiled shirt
and a watch when thej r choose.
If you are fastidious, never dine at a sawmill
Lveryone looks filthy, but they are not. The dirt is,
as the landlady told me, only gum-stain and takes a
fortnight to wean off the hands. A jumper once
stained bears the indelible brand of the eucalyptus.
It is a pity there are so many accidents at the
mills. I have not been a month among them and
I have seen broken thighs, ankles, and arms •
amputated fingers and damaged eyes; a bullocky
drowned in a flood and typhoid cases—brought on,
1 imagine, by the cooks or by the Chinese gar-
deners. If any of you want some good fishing and
first-rate rabbit, hare, and duck-shooting, just
camp near a sa.w-mill. The log-carters will lay you
on, and the cook will let you have rations, if you
are civil to him.
One day I was pestered by a half-drunken
tecotchman, who said he was a bench-man from
Melbourne, and that he meant to work himself
into a billet by “ shouting ” for every Redgummy
fie could rub against in the town. I was standing in
front of the post-office when he asked me to point
out the bosses and men who might be in the town.
It was sale-day and the town was full of cookies,
00 “Saw-mill-man” whenever anyone
passed by. It wasn’t bad fun to see him run them
down and bail them up; sometimes he earthed
them in a bar. lam not quite sure if my religious
scruples are satisfied with the result of my inac-
curacies. The visitor had paid for drinks for ten
or twelve farmers, two doctors, three auctioneers,
one clergyman, a fat and lean solicitor, a barrister,
and six “ spielers,” when he was sent away on his
ear thus : -I had pointed out the Recorder and the
Jr once Magistrate of the town as “Sawmill bosses.”
Ihe stranger followed them into the chief hotel
and began the game with “Good day, brother
gumnnes (now gummy is also slang for a toothless
old wether), let another old timber-toe stand you a
drink. What’s yours, old un ? What’ll you drink
frosty-face ? ”
In exactly 18g seconds, the groom and the boots
were conducting that wood-cutter to the middle of
the_ street, where they left him with the usual boot-
and-tailor introduction.
And now, good-bye red-gummies! For half-a-
crovvn I’ll sell each of you an infallible receipt for
removing gum-stains from the fingers and I’ll
throw in a lump of “ sticking ” sticking-plaster made
Dly by Scotty the Wrinklee.
The Juggernauth Jewels.
To the Times of India “ L**F.” sends a remark-
able story, for the truth of which he vouches. He
says that it was told to him by a distinguished
officer of the Madras army. The facts have never
appeared in any newspaper, nor are they to be
found in any of the police records of the Presi-
dency. For obvious reasons the names have been
altered, but to this day by the camp-fires of the
great festival held every year is told with bated
breath, and listened to with rapt attention, the
terrible tale of. the jewels of Juggernauth and of
the vengeance of the great god. ‘ ‘ Many years
ago,” said my friend, “ I was quartered at Fuzara-
bad, an important military station about 150 miles
from the Madras coast. Unfortunately, at the
time I was there, gambling and betting were much
in vogue, and many men plunged and came to
grief over their debts of honour. . Of all that gay
company nobody was more popular and better
liked by both men and women than young Fitz-
roy ; but, unfortunately, he lost money at the
races, tried to recover himself at the whist-table,
but failed, got into the hands of the JVlarwarrees,
and got deeper and deeper into the mire of debt.”
At 1 ngth he told the narrator that he intended
to go to England to raise money. “ Will you
come away with me ?” he asked ? “ Give out that
we have taken ten days’ leave for some shooting,
and see me down to the coast. If I go off alone
I shall be stopped by those cursed Marwarrees.”
After some hesitation I agreed. He sent in his
application for leave to Europe on private affairs,
and I gave out that I was going on a ten days'’
shooting expedition. “A week later, with a
coupie of tongas, we had started on our long and
wearying journey to the coast, where my poor
young friend hoped to pick up a steamer to take
mm to Europe. On the second day out we met
crowds of people tramping along. In reply to our
inquiries we were told they were all returning
from the great festival of Juggernauth held at
Pun, now only some three days’ journey from
where we were. _ The tongawalah kept us in-
terested with a graphic description of the festival
and of the great god, which was especially remark-
able for the wonderful jewels it possessed—two
emerald eyes of inestimable value, its lips formed
of the finest rubies in the world, and a necklace
of priceless pearls. 'The sun was sinking as
at last we neared the town of Puri, and we
could see the pinnacles of the temples rise
above the trees which surrounded the place.
Half a mile on the other side of the town
stood the Traveller’s Bungalow, where we intended
putting up for the night. A more uncomfortable
11 ical 1 never ate than the dinner which was served
wLn ft tbat e T ei i lng ’- J ai J d Iwas quite thankful
when the poor lad said he was dead-beat, and
H l ' off *0 bec |- M .Y other room was on the
other side of the bungalow, and I took my pipe
and sat smoking m the verandah. The moon was
just rising, when I thought I saw the figure of a
ituropean stealing along the wall of the com-
pound Strange, I thought, and wondered what
fSf E r°^ an tEer ® GOuld be here at the same
-Vn idea struck me, and I went across to
my companion s room. There was nobody in it;
the bed was undisturbed. I threw down my pipe,
and rushed out into the moonlight. A few seconds
ater 1 was out m the road and turned instinctively
m the directum of the temple.” He could not see
bllt ran on until he reached the
wall of the temple compound - an enormous court-
yard of paved stone, and on which were Ivins'
a number of priests, their white garments
wrapped round their heads and bodies. “In the
background was placed temple after temple, but
in the very centre stood one solitary shrine, raised
on three separate flights of steps, and inside I
could see the great black god raised on three other
smaller flights of coloured marble steps. The
moonbeams shone directly on the god and lit up
the emera d eyes and ruby lips, while the pearl
necklace glowed on his huge black bosom. To my
unutterable horror I saw my companion walking
right across the courtyard. My tongue clove to
he roof of my mouth. I dared not shout, even if
could have raised my voice. A ghastly horror
took hold of me as the idea struck me that in his
madness my poor friend intended to save his
honour by the greater dishonour of robbing the
1 jhr peecbless ’ b saw bbn mount step after step,
and the next moment I saw him enter the sacred
shrine across the threshold of which no other
toot but that of the Brahmin has ever passed.
Wme steps led up to the god. He paused. I tried
to shout, but no sound would come. He raised
his hand as if to tear off the pearl necklace. It
was still above his reach. His foot then touched
the seventh. Oh, God, can I ever forget the sight ?
. the moonlight flashed out two arms covered
with a hundred nay, two hundred—daggers, and
clasped the daring youth to the black god’s breast.
-At the same moment the sound of a gong broke
the stillness of the night, and in one moment the
priests had cast off their coverings, and were rush-
ing to the shrine. Two minutes later I saw the
amazed and horrified priests carrying out the life-
less body of the dishonoured Englishman, and I
turned and fled. ”
First young blood : “ Don’t-slap-my-knee,
don’t-slap-my-knee !” Second ditto : “ Why, what
makes you so tender !” “ Oh, I saw my new girl
last night, and she was on my lap the whole time !”
“ I could stand a lot of that. ” “ Well, she herself
was all right, but it was the wires of that dress-
improver. No-don’t!”
A syndicate has just been formed in Lon-
don to raise the treasure which went down with
the French fleet at Aboukir Bay 90 years ago.
The sunken vessels have, already been located.
L Orient, the French flagship, on whose “burning
deck ” died Casablanca, had £600,000 aboard and
two silver gates, taken from a cathedral at Valetta.
The Brisbane Traffic Board authorises the
Tramway Company to provide special ears for the
convenience of smokers, each car to have notice-
boards with the words “ Smoking Oar” in large
letters inside and out. This short and simple
legend may be sufficient to keep the ladies of the
Northern Capital out of the smoking cars. No-
thing short < f a mouse under the seat will do it in
Sydney.
. A mushroom, 33 inches round, 101, inches
across, and 4|lbs. weight, is described by a gentle-
man from Cudal, N.S.W., to the local editor, who
says his “ veracity is undoubted,” and he knows it
was a mushroom because he ate it. In that case
the voracity of our journalistic brother is un-
doubted. We envy him his appetite—and his
.opportunities. No mushroom that we ever ate
weighed half enough.
Manningham Mills, Bradford, where the
indomitable Lister has manufactured many square
miles of the plushes now in such general use, are
alleged to have been totally destroyed last week.
The brains and energy of Sam Lister enabled him
uri , l out *he lower grades of silk goods cheaper
than they can be manufactured in Germany and
to pay better wages withal. Bradford owes a lot
to_ his generosity, and the destruction of his famous
mills is a bad job all round.
The late General Gordon’s sister has pre-
sented the Southampton Free Library with all the
books belonging to the ’Ero of Khartoum. They
consisted of about a thousand Bibles and five
hundred works dealing with the Christian art of
war. There’s a good deal of military business in
the Bible, by the way, and poor Gordon loved to
linger oyer those chapters which describe how the
Malachites, and the Stalactites, and all the other
ites, were put to the sword by the Board. He was
a dooce of a -Hero, was Gordon, for putting ’em to
the sword.
An astounding Spiritualist book has just
been published in London by a retired clergyman,
named Skewes. He makes out that the remains of
Sir J. franklin and party, in the Arctic regions,
were discovered through the directions of a
Spiritualist medium, a little girL Her dead sister
appeared as a ball of fire, illuminating a dark room.
On the floor was shown a map of the Arctic
regions, with the spot marked where franklin
would be found. On the wall was written the
name of the place. Instructions given accordingly,
by Lady franklin, directed M‘Clintock.
According to the accounts by mail it is
charged that Mrs. Maybrick (accused of poisoning
her husband, a wealthy merchant, at Liverpool,
Eng.) drugged him to death with arsenic d la
Louisa Collins. Making due allowance for the
difference in the social positions of the two women,
the cases were almost on all fours. There was the
inevitable “ dearest ” other fellow, there was the
inevitable used-up husband and the inevitable
poison in his medicine. Then there was the
loving wife who saw that no food was given to the
dying man by other hands than hers, and the
faithful female servant who, when letters were
given her to post opened and read them, and had
a very plausible excuse to offer for having done so.
“The letter fell into the mud and I had to put it
into another envelope.” It’s a way they’ve got.
Where is the woman who doesn’t long to know
what’s written in the other woman’s letter.
A tradesman in lower George Street,
Sydney, writes “ It has come to my knowledge
that a lot of the labourers and boys living close to
me are daily losing what few pence they may have
in a Chinese gambling-den situated but a few
doors from here. lam not reporting this to you
for any selfish end. Last week a man came to me
who had lost his horse and cart and £8 ; yesterday
another man came in who had lost £3 and wanted
a shilling for food for his home. To-day an un-
fortunate woman informs me that her husband
naa lost all he had saved in six weeks to pay back-
rent and that ‘they were going to do God only
new what. These are only three recent cases,
but many more have come to my knowledge
where working men are losing their all and a few
white scoundrels _ who are in league with the
u run kies are making a .show of winning heavily,
thereby luring others to their ruin.” When the
police can spare time from arresting innocent
ravishers, ’ unemployed emigrants, and vagrant
aogs, per .laps they will turn their attention against
G nnese hells. Now, Inspector General Fosbery,
what are your “ traps ” doing for their money
and who is it that obtains the Chow’s immunity
from prosecution ? J
A very long and “romantic” story has
been spun by one of the papers concerning Henry
Ernest Weaver, “-the modern Captain Kidd ”
who, the other day, shot Captain Greenlees, of
tne schooner Oolonist, at Savannah. Sarbour. As
a matter of fact, Weaver (a miserable, boastful,
undersized little wretch whom you could shake
between your thumb and forefinger, and who, by
the way, -was once in the Navy .himself) seems to
have told the officers of H.B.M.S. Lizard that he
was not going to Christmas Island, the stated
destination of his boat, but to the Solomon
Islands where a colossal fortune awaited him :—•
Some years ago he was there, and when on the northern
coast of Maieita Island he assisted a tribe of natives in a
war against their enemies, and secured for them the
victory. In grateful recognition of this they made him
their king. In his new kingdom he found abundance of
gold, and an immense bed of pearl oyster shells in quite
shallow water. His subjects, the natives, collected and
stored for him nearly 150 tons of shell, which he had no
means of taking away with him. Now, 150 tons of pearl
oyster shells represent a very considerable value. Good
Sinn wor ? 1 at - )out 2s. a lb- A ton is worth say
£2OO, and 150 tons £30,0000./ J
King Weaver ! Ten millions to one this queer
yarn, which the newspaper referred to affects to
believe, is all fudge. Weaver was a crank of the
first order. The present writer remembers that at
Maryborough, Queensland, 12 years ago or so
\v eaver, who was then in command of a nigger
dealing schooner, got sunstruck and was attended
by the level-headed Dr. Power, who hazarded the
opinion that his patient had already been mad
and would thenceforth be a good deal madder.
A Noble Game.
‘ 1 In Melbourne the other day a young
footballer was charged with having stabbed
another. At the Palace Hotel in the same city
six or seven of the Tasmanian team, on retiring at
. o clock a.m. turned the taps on four floors, flood-
“g the building. . . At Manchester (England)
William iattersall was committed for trial for
kicking to death Thomas Mawdsley, the referee at
a football match. The deceased was said to have
been in an advanced stage of consumption.”
Hurrah ! the noble British game
Is being nobly vindicated,
The value of such deeds as these
Cannot be over-estimated—
A building fairly flooded out —
A player marked with sudden puncture—
A solemn funeral winding past
Are what we wanted at this juncture !
They said the fine old love of sport
Among us hardly now existed,
And that in gate-money alone
1 Our sportsmen’s feelings were enlisted ;
They told us fun was not our aim
And had become a thing extraneous ;
But let them hang their heads and read
This burst of happiness spontaneous.
They said that we had grown effete
And languid ! Well, although the British
Aspirant bears the palm so far,
Our lads, you see, are growing skittish;
ThoyTe coming up by leaps and bounds—
The Saxon blood which they inherit
Will bid them emulate in time
The glory of the master-spirit.
They who as yet have only turned
On taps to hear the water ripple
Through bedrooms, yet may rise to kick
The life from a consumptive cripple;
And he, brave boy, who with a knife
Sailed in to clear the way for winning,
Who knows what heights he may attain—
What mighty end from such beginning ?
'Who knows but some day some of these
The daring British feat may rival,
Or e’en surpass ? —who guess what heights
The game may reach in this revival?
There was a period, it is true,
When harmlessness appeared to menace
The field, and football might be played
With the dull safety of lawn-tennis.
When no sensation entered in
To one stale round of wins and loses,
And nothing worth remark transpired,
Save injured shins and trivial bruises ;
When things went on as though our men
Had quite forgotten what a fight meant—
But this is better— now we may
Book forward to some real excitement!
On hostile fire brigades we’ve leaned
Too long for tragic deeds and gory,
Let football henceforth take its place
fn front, and win a fuller glory ;
Let its hosts do such things as make
The Hevennooze’s bosom gladder,
And shame the wildest carnage yet
Achieved by them of hook-and-ladder.
Let each go forth prepared to meet
His end, or hasten someone’s ending,
Displaying at the least a brace
Of barkers from his waist depending.
Let him have handy in his belt
A serviceable dirk or bowie,
And in his pocket—deadlier still—
The sermons preached by J. A. Dowie !
Let all have_ boots with iron plates
Tipped faithfully and well, and wad dies
With loaded heads, wherewith to beat
To lifeless pulp each other’s bodies;
Then, as of old, the Homans brought
Forth trembling human sacrifices,
Produce a pallid referee
Afflicted sore with chronic phthisis.
Then let the fun begin, let all
Eall to and show their pluck and muscle
As best they may, and let us see
A real invigorating tussle !
Who knows but these may come to pass
Something like this—a wholesale killing
And maiming ? This is plain at least—
Our players seem to be quite willing.
They’ve done their best, and given the lie
To slander, and made Sport their debtor,
And given us ground to hope that soon
They’ll wake right up, and do much better.
Some undeveloped Tattersalls
(Good sporting name) may be among them
Whose fame shall live in all men’s souls.
Long after Nosey Bob has hung them !
Some people want to stick to the old 40
horse-power, surface-condensing super-heated
Hades; others want no Sheol at all. Let us make
a compromise ; let us have an incandescent hell
Captain Angerstein, whom an English
ca ile intimates is mixed up in a divorce-case—on
which side is not stated—is related to the Royal
family in some roundabout way or other. We
knew him in N.Z. years ago. He was a tall,
soldierly man, with a bloudf* mousta- lie, ends
waxed and fiercely pointed. .1 A used to speak of
Tummy as “ Wales,” and fixed events by re-
ferences to the Royal family, such as “Oh ! I
know. That was before Lou. married Lome, ” or,
“ Yes, Alf. mentioned that he met you when he
was out here in the Galatea. ” He affected hunting,
and used to follow the Pakuranga hounds on the
most horrible specimens of horseflesh imaginable.
He would gallop up to the meet with horse in a
lather and “ pink ” all foam-flecked, and a snort
of disgust would come from the red nose of Hunts-
man Tom Brown as he remarked severely, ‘ ‘ Captain
Hangerstein! Its not the ’untin’ as ’urts the
’osses so much as the heverlastin’ ’amrncr, ’ammer,
’ammer of the ’oofs on the ’ard ’ighway.” He rode
in two or three of the members’ steeplechases but
always came off at the first jump. Mrs. Angerstein
was horsey, too—a pretty woman and thorough-
bred to the finger-tips. She made a pretty picture,
beside her husband, tooling a tandem team in a
crummy dog-cart covered with heraldic devices.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
V
3?
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BEURv
m
*V
Nix
/*
/'❖X
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL,
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0.0 and
mvwards This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
Nervous DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion, -ams m the
Back Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
fivstem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A. Book illustrated, containing full inf ormation and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp far
S&dX;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 918, G. P. 0., Sydney.
“Life Preservation,”
—BY—
Dr. J. D. LLEWLELLYN,
SPECIALIST,
10 LONSDALE ST„ EAST, MELBOURNE.
THIS Work is a Medical Treatise describing
accurately, faithfully and concisely the
Functional Disorders and Diseases arising from
excesses, indiscretions, and other enervating
influences with their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men, with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
qua ks.
PRICE per mail, 3s. fid. (any Colonial stamps).
To be had of all Booksellers, or the Otto Publish-
ing Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
-L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
I The Public are requested to notice the
WcLUwIOU ! words, Rose s Celebrated Eye
Lofton, with the Trade Mark (a Roue) on Dark Blue
G'-vuhd; is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A.. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist.
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
JJERVOUS DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, personally, or BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical hook sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain-
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. Od. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC " HEAL
FOB FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK andPOULTEY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst
“ I have tested a sample of the ‘ Magic Meal ’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and xAasenic and have
to report, afte.t a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Li’dwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon:— “l
find.it greatly increases the How of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold In bags—7lb. 3s. ; 141 b. ss. fid. ; 561 b., 18s.
fid. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
- A. H. PHILiLXPS,
31 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE
Beecham’s Pills
CH4
&
&
PATENT
w
PILLS
&
$
4$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a (Sublet
a Bon (or hi Horn
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stdinafi), side bead
ache, giddiness, fiilnes?
and swelling' after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushing's ot
heat, loss of appetite
shortness of breath, cos
tiveness, scurvy, blotches-
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
_ \in twenty minutes. E‘ery
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will oe acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAMS PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD ot health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” tesdfied
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beechain’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and «ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficult -1 A breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecha.m's Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. 1 id. and 2s. 9d. each. Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Eucalypte Oil
THE TREE OF LIFE.
meg
Victory Ointments
The only pure Eiicalyptc In the Worlcu
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Pi ize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CUKE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, C< nsu up ion, Pjeurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the best and
bungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, .-ciadca,
etc Our VICTORY OIVI’ME M T stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, bad Breasts, ancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all Kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eu a ypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte 'oney is the b--st preparation
befo e the public for young Child en and aged
'lso, make s of the Eucalypte L tenges
for the Voice. Manufactory Co tam. <dua.
Sydney Who esale Depot 227 ElizabkiTi Street
Posted to any pan of the Colon es. --old Every-
where. BBVVAKE OF I.MITATt NS.
UST PUBLISHED
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
It contains information most valuable in Ner-
vous and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rules
are worth its weight in gold. Send your full
address, and we will send Post Free One Copy,
given away for the next -"lx Months Only, Write
to Professor R. T. SELBY Cleveland Street,
Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
A most Unique Work on
SUBJECTS.
CONSULT
Moore & Hogg
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On aH Diseases df the Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
I CORBETTS BUILDINGS, corner of George
’ ■ and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
CONSULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 83G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp
Cl FECIAL NOTICE- The. Sydney Hue r.Env.
’’nsina’vnn Edition - Publishers. FITZ-
GERALD BROS. übscriptio i (payable strictly
in a-van e). Six Shillings an 1 Sixpence per quar-
ter. One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the O filch George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements
1 - A*. --V —— ■ • ■ I .v"“
£2O EUCIiBOARD BUGGIES E2 °
BEST IS THE WORLD
for
:/ /
N
The Largest Coach-
Works in Australia.
No. 45- Ti’RSOtTT Shat —£35.
COPE -Sc NJEWMAWT,
DOGGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
U ARRIS’S Missii g Friends, Confidential, and
JtjL Private-Enquiry dtoce, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrHnce Kins or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley's Private elective Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBRL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all I inds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
arris.
'Copies of WiLLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
B.B.H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address: 53 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
“ For F aming a Picture Heat and Well."
8 x : x
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-" t., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Dotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in ihe Colonies. I hotos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with reap gold edges.
pecial attention. paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
tSJs
■f't'
KAMUPAtTUAERS
& IMfOATE* 5 or
HATS CAPS it
r— -rqr. '
438 CEORCE ST
3YDNEY %
0/OVO3 I tt LatsrtCem
A
If)
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AUTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STB EKT, BRISBANE.
HUGH'S
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
k
Business Announcements.
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Wiol
Bass’ Pale A.le,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents ;
BALCHIN JOHNSTON & GO.,
SYDNEY.
M. B. Foster and Sons,
LONDON,
“BUCKLE ” BRAND ALE & STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and
STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed off
on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and
to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER and
SONS to this colony bear their name and
address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer puiS
porting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be
esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the
frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given fcr information
leading to conviction of the offenders.
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY,
Agents for Messrs. M, B. Foster and Sons.
4SK FOR KUPPER’S ELBERFELD
3L LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &c
Cooperage:
387 KENT STREET & 171 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market-st., Sydney.
Hotels.
oYLii
ENS
VJD
nu ua
■iWMMBOWPCN S MBWDfiiipm
bowhekt’s hotel,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C BOLDEN .. .. Proprietor.
P
RINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera H ouse, Bourke-st., East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience Centrally
Situated.
JrtZDkT H dy "JL"IE* Ij,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. US' Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’, walk of the Hot
find Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
Livery and Letting Stables.
Pocking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE
Proprietor.


Jk. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Hoots
Are lied need from 30s. to 31s.
249 PITT ST., S mnn, Near Tattersalls.
X
Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather, iat
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Presli Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Suoplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MASOH BH.OTHEE.S,
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sam to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MKL Y I N and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
LIMITED.
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
SB
IMPORTER OF
"W I TnT IE S 7 x BPLEITS, x S IH3 PI IB S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s DuWi„ Whisky (6tol0y r «ld) ; W. Jameson’s, Dcnvilis’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
r „ . uu,J,fcss>i 8 > Maktells and SaZekaos Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
E3gr» tv i h \ °J lmoe>it aad oldest SCOTCH WmSKIHH (in wood), Imported and Buttled by P.li.L.
The Best 1 ort and Sherry \\ mea and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
or bottled Ale and Wtout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 A 780 George Street.
SQjnlesale a.iS Single linttlc Depantments, ®BB an 3 19* (leonne-st., Syilncv
SEND TOR A PRICE LIST. *
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and DarlingKiirst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLACH BROS,’
isriss-w
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
Now Supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
WOOL. "WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Bridge E3>-fc., Sydney.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000.
Wool Season, 1888-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
T'HE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
K3P“ Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
137“' livery Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loptus Streets,
genuine SWEDISH MADE
G
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C. .A.. PALSTEJDT,
SOLE AGENT POE AUSTRALIA,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
lITSPECT .TZHTIE S^WIEEBT
Wertheim Sewing Machine Depots
A
£X.
MELBOURNE,
i Head Office ; 44 Lonsdale Street Hast, near Swans ton Street
-J New Coffee Palace, Bourke -Street.
I 59 Swanstou Street, opposite Town Hall.
k
Com
o
PL
X
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying’ the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin; is
most co ding and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONSA, a pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints--WmTE, Rose, and Ckeam. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting 1 , &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
Australian Rutotoer Works
270 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,”
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by ‘ 1 The bulletin’s ” well-known Artists.
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY. 7
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. sd.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Victorian
Tasmanian
Queensland
-a.grents;
Collms ® treet East, Melbourne.
xIIZGERALD BEOS., George-street, Launceston.
J. H. THOMPSON, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.
