

Ask your
Grocer for
Fry’s Ha!fed Cocoa.
J. 8. FRY A SONS, Bristol, Lombok akb Stbkit.
** An ordinary cap contains mote active properties of malt than a pint ol the beat Ale os Porter.”— Lanoit.
im.
A.EI
LTIVENSON Bros,'
Shop, 20 Jiundle St.,
Adelaide, pronounced
one of the most B)e-
- ;( ".r; Jewellery Shop?
in Australia
STEVENSOM SHE
y~L .W
STEVENSON Bros
SHOP,
404 George St., opposite
Bank,
Sydney
BRfS
qtVtHSM
smtm
grrVEHSOW BROS
STEVTSKSON Bros.
Branch Shop,
6 RCTNDIiB BTRK»T
Adelaide
STEVENSON BROS.’ WORKSHOP.
Where many skilful Jewellers, Watchmakers
Silversmiths. Goldsmiths, Diamond Setters, and
Gold Chain Makers are engaged The Queen s
Jubilee Casket, The One Hundred Guinea Ade
Itfide Gold Cups, The Wentworth Jockey, The
South Anseralian Grand Cricketing Challenge
Cup and numerous other Trophies have been
designed and manufactured by Stevenson Bros
The South Australian
Grand Cricketing Cbal-
snge Cup, designed and
made by Stbvbnson 1
Bros. <
7 &hie. 70 Guineas-
One erf the oiauy
Adelaide Gold Cups,
designed and made o>
Stbtehbok Bros, to the
order of Sir Thou. Elder
Value. 100 Guinea*.
STEVENSON BROS.
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPOSTERS OF
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery and Silierplate,
352 GEORGE STREET,
(4 Doors be Vow the POST Office)
Also. 404 GEORGE STREET, opposite A.O.S. Bank.
-SYDNEY. **
—ALSO—*
6 2O 3il Clbc-iaTv'C.
WILLIAM I. STEVEHSOB.
WATCH, CLOCK,
—and—
r't. 7X> "VtOVK cXcA-
Practical Workman
14LTSK B. STEYEISOf.,
„ JL4I J&3C
PRACTICAL
jEvVB ller,
ARD —
Practical workman
Watches. Jewellery, and all Scientific Instruments Repaired at Phenomenally
Prices, and sent Post Free to any part of Australia.
/
-^hre^
34f~*Z (f^
s<//£a /c.AUAJ /i^sts//L
ms-
_ &%*<*
L /^
&
C&tAj, cc/as*srrt^f,
*te>€A
d^
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
U
“S
IXSOPSONS
o u r
'p
*
m
0
33
!WQe
X
o
V
Oqq\
SIR ROGER
o
o
mm
l^J
DtXSONS
BXOItSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS
TOWERS.
■Hoed Brick Hotel Btdldlng erected In above
IBM, iltnated comer o GUI and Oharoh Street!.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now Imported In bottles and used In treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER-
CEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUDEL-SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should be I aken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLE, 32, Farrlngdon St., Lore’on,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
vichy
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.— For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
GELESTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumat'sm, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of alt Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON.
24, OLD BONO STREET, LONDON,
■ Trade Mark—“White Hose" on “Golden
Lyre," with Address in full.
ALLAN A. MARSH [ALL A C OJ,
Enghnebbb, Oopfbbsmithb, Bbabb and Beli'Focndhbb,
VtraSEEa, Fibmbbbb, Gaspittbbb, Ship & General Smithh, Abt ft Medlbval Metal Wobkexb
Boiler Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
▼■ritf'a Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat]Work of every description in
Ivor or Brass, Ships’Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances,
Nl iCCOII VSKU, I ■utsuii Place. Sydney. andlßtanmere Road,"Petersham.
M'JjHiAJV iiKOS., KIWW, & DU.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
(IS GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
512
m
O
X s *
r
w
REGD.
tirsoiAzmm:
Ml' lewmg Mfiffeme, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Alta Q&mn Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
•AS COOKING STOVES LBONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft WALKER’S.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, fto., &o.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT. #
WAHTKD IH BTBET HOUSE.
lb
v/'.ous INSEC
FLIES M«!
. ■ CKROACSS ■ . " *>lOjl
AT iTI sm ■;-■:? ..-n
HASH.: •*> ■. .■■■■;': r -ja
nowLtsoßOWt«
AWiMAU^I
•' /ra*
i^S
t
' ,v\
P v. *V v c *
RNO
FELTOH* CRIM W.A 0 EUC*
-MELBOURNE-
t
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations. '
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
■ebeoribed Capital
Paid-ur and Accrued Capital
Depoei »Received ..
Advancer Made
CMal Income ..
Year ending
Dot., 1886.
£180,426
61,630
93,581
123,248
200,106
Tear ending
Got., 1886.
£350,000
120,000
261,500
247,840 ,
461,086
Tear ending
Get., 1867.
£431,116
206,666
M 1,856
807,828 .
767,990
•i : Y m
Tear ending
Oet., 196.
. £680,000
251,016
. 1,123,049
625,820
. 6,048,951
Deposits received at following Rates 12 months, 7 par cent.; 6 months, 6 pet
cent ; 3 months, 5 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
vho wish to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
■VERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
fchi« BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
noeive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance,
AX7LE FUNDS for Borrowers. TE&US LIBERAL,
sa
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing f hares
riAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of la. pe
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are la
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in Cash.
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received in October,
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed only
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Hon. JOHN HMMO, M.F., J.F., _ „ Chairman.
WILLIAM DOHERTY ... Ac ting-Secretary.
mm
the
Federal Coffee Palace,
CORNER OF
ITingr Collins Streets, Melbo-ame,
Containing 560 ROOMS, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of RQOUS, Furnished.
SPECIAL LINING SALOON for LALIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL " GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Men*, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMS
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
George Cohen - Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol, 10—Ho 473
SATURDAY, MARCH 9, 1889.
Price, 6d.
mm
The Social Gimlet Society—Again!
VOICE FROM ABOVE: "HI THERE! WHAT EVER ARE YOU A DOIN’ OF"
SOCIAL GIMLET SOCIETY (log.): “I’M A OPENIN’ A PUBLIC SCHOOL!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-strekt, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ice
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
(j f such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Ti ie Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, MARCH 9, 1889.
The Great Woman Question.
The Coming Race, as a subject for theory
and speculation, has been discussed in so
many different aspects that the aged topic
appears at last to be fairly entitled to a well-
earned rest. The story cf the world Is made
up of the coming and going cf successive
races, and" from the remote Hittites who
hung out In the imperial city of Carchemish,
down to the modern Australians —the last-
born of nations—there has been compara-
tively little to choose among them all. The
most erratic and phonetic of modern philoso-
phers once observed, with the sadness of a
man who endeavours to bear up against an
irremovable curee, that there is a great deal
of human nature in man, and too much
human nature has been the chief cause why
the earth Is the greatest failure among
modern Institutions. The coming man,
whether Greek or Roman, Goth, Lombard,
or Yankee, has generally proved, when he
came, to be disgustingly like the man who
went away to make room for him, and for
this reason, more than any other, the coming
man would have caused no great grief or
public loss If he had never come at all.
Regarded as a whole, the human race Is not
a desirable acquaintance, and the philosopher
who devotes his life, In obedience to the old
philosophic command, to the study of him-
self, can only boast of a close acquaintance
with an animal from whom he might better
have held aloof. Between the stolid agri-
culturist who knows hogs, and the contempla-
tive recluse who knows his own Inner soul, the
gulf is not nearly so wide as Is generally sup-
posed, and it Is not always easy to decide which
Is on speaking terms with the nobler being.
The ancient British savage, who gnawed his
raw chop In a damp cave, and the modern
Australian hoodlum, whose complicated
blasphemy Is built up and garnished at the
corner public-house, are equally types of a
race that has almost invariably proved Itself
a failure ; and the fact that nineteen hun-
dred years have been spent In patient wait-
ing for this coming man, and that nearly
twenty centuries have been wasted in the
slow, painful evolution of the public-house
in which he loafs and spits and curses at
large, are only further evidences that man
la not by any means what he Is cracked up
to be. Whether the world would have
gained a better reward had It spent the last
two thousand years In waiting for a hog In
place of a citizen is a problem which defies
solution, bub if the world has another two
thousand years to spare, tha experiment
might be worth trying. The modern male
human being the hot-house plant of
an effete civilisation has distinguished
himself chiefly as an arrogant and Intoxi-
cated smudge on the surface of the earth,
and with the exception of one solitary
Nebuchadnezzar who went out to grass, It
Is difficult to find, In all the pages of history,
the record of a single individual who realised
the abject failure of his species and the
greatness of man’s collapse as the ruling in-
fluence of a misused earth.
• • •
The fast-spreading revolt of woman Is one
among many evidences of the hollowness of
the able-bodied male white citizen of the
present age. After many thousand years of
patient subjection, that hitherto submissive
branch of the human race has risen to declare
that man is a ruin and that his undivided
supremacy has had its day. All through the
long dark ages the path of man has been
lined with public-houses and paved with
skittles and cigars, and under the influence
of these misused blessings he has grown
weak and luxurious and effeminate, and has
gradually declined from bis rank as the
unquestioned boss of creation. The legendary
hero cf old mythology has given place to a
soldier who fights by machinery and whose
valour Is dependent mostly on complicated
arrangements of cranks and cog-wheels. The
Sun-Goo of the Norse fables has been suc-
ceeded by the short, fat, red-faced man of
commerce whose hair has been worn away
through the friction of ledgers and invoices,
and scorched off hia shiny cranium by the
glare of gas-jets shining in a stuffy office ;
and the descendants of the mail-clad barons
of the past —the few of them who remain—
are distinguished from other men chiefly by
the fact that their pants big more dreadfully
at the knees, and their hair is more un-
certain, and their coats are more rusty, and
their corns larger and more sensitive than
those of other men, and because they are in
general shorter and stumpier and plainer,
and more Inclined to make gobbling sounds
when they eat than the balance tf mankind.
The glamour cf heroism and romance—
always a bogus sentiment at the best—has
departed from the male of the human
species, and It was this alone which made
woman his willing slave for so many generi-
tions. The intensely practical tendencies of
the present age have burst up the regime
of feminine subjection for ever.
* * •
Judging from present indications ihe
women oi Australia will shortly have an
equal voice in the government of the country
and when that point 1s gained the rest de-
pends upon themselves. Hitherto The
Bulletin has opposed the movement In
favour of female suffrage ; it now with-
draws its opposition on the ground that
the evil Is evidently becoming unavoid-
able and must be endured In the best way
possible. Female suffrage, It still main-
tains, is a present danger to the cause of
Democracy. The tendency of the femi-
nine mind Is almost invariably towards
Conservatism, and the glitter of aristocratic
Institutions exercises an Influence upon her
soul which a century of Democratic training
will hardly suffice to eradicate. The women
of Australia are the best and surest props of
the cause of monarchy in these lands, and
to them the divinity which used to hedge In
a king, In the days when a king was the
head assassin and chief murderer of the
nation, is still a living thing. The wail of
bogus anguish which goes up from the Aus-
tralian nation in the day c f royal bereave-
ment Is mostly the wail of “ loyal ” woman-
hood, and when stme illiterate, penniless,
and Illegitimate German prince—the off-
spring of a vulgar Intrigue between a one-
horse German potentate and a shady
music-ball dancer marries into the
royal family of Britain, and Is afterwards
afflicted by the loss of his mother’s aunt, it
la the female soul which clothes itself in
sackcloth and ashes over the sad event, and
refuses to be comforted. The funereal court
of England, with Its hangings of crape and
Its aspect of unutterable woe, like the shadow
of a crippled hearse In the last hours of Its
decay, la still the shrine at which the women
of England love best to worship ; and the
surging multltndea of half-naked dames who
expose themselves to the cold blasts of an
English winter In the frantic effort to rush
the royal palace and bow down before the
gorgon-llke figure of impassive majesty are
a concrete evidence that woman la the prop
which shores up the dying Institutions
of which the world Is growing tired.
The threadbare superstitions of the Church,
too, find their chief support in feminine
devotees. It is the Jewess, not the Jew,
who clings most tenaciously to the hope that
the coming Messiah may be born in the
back room behind the family pawnshop, or
that the hereditary glories of the old do’
emporium or the marine store may gild the
cradle of the expected Redeemer. The
Roman Catholic Sister of Mercy, by her
charity and devotion, has done much to
efface the ruin which was wrought among
the traditions of the Papacy by the corpu-
lent, dissolute monks of the Middle Ages,
an d but for her and the lay devotees of her
sex the cumbersome fabric of Romish ignor-
ance and tyranny would long since have
tottered to its final fall. Ritualism, with
Its gaudy pictorial adjuncts of flowers and
candles, swinging censors, vestments, vigils,
and miscellaneous mummeries, is supported
almost entirely by feminine worshippers ;
feminine literature consists largely of the
inane drivel of monthly journals, in which
fifth-rate writers gush in pages of weltering
stupidity about coronetted heroes, noblemen
of impossible elegance, and demi gods from
the Upper House of the British Legislature ;
and everywhere It Is the misfortune cf
womankind that circumstances have identi-
fied her with the cause of retrogression and
made her the pillar of the decaying idols of
dead social and religious supers*itions.
• • •
Centuries of narrow education and irri-
tating restrictions have made the woman of
fashionable life a batteifly creature whose
life Is composed of gilded trifles and whose
reverence for titles and social distinctions
amounts to a disease ; while her woiking
sister, on the other hand, has been doomed
to a barbarous existence of underpaid toil
and ceaseless exertion until her Intellect has
become stunted and her thoughts revolve
only in one narrow circle of dismal
drudgery. The entrance of woman—thus
educated Into the world of politics
will throw back the cause of Demo-
cracy for a century, but at some time or
other the world must consent to face this
difficulty, and there Is little or nothing to be
gained by postponement. One-half of the
human race has been systematically taught
to ignore all the great problems cf life, (o
accept things as they are, or to wait In
patient endurance until their wrongs are
rfghtul by outside influences, to abandon all
Ideas of self-reliance, and to believe that the
great questions of human liberty and happi-
ness are beyond their comprehension and
outside their sphere of labour. On almost
every page of the Scripture the ancient
law-givers have pounded laboriously away
at the old fable of womanly submission ;
every political and social system of
ancient and modern times has been built
on the doctrine of man’s prescriptive right
to supremacy, and tradition and revelation
have worked together in the cause of retro-
gression. And now in a Democratic age
woman will shortly be called upon to exercise
powers for which she has teen systematically
unfitted by ages of prejudice, and until she
learns, by the exercise of these powers, to
comprehend the requirements of the age and
to keep pace with a Democratic sentiment,
of which at present she knows little or noth-
ing, the world must take the consequences.
* * •
The concession of female suffrage will
leave woman to work out her own destiny.
Having been carefully taught in the schools
to pound the piano and possibly to combat
with the harp, to struggle with the mysteries
of fancy needlework, to patter fragments of
useless Latin and unintelligible French, to
make sodden pastry, and possibly—if she
has penetrated the mysteries of Higher
Education—to contemplate without actual
terror the unfathomable pothooks of the
ancient Greek form of speech, she will sud-
denly be called upon to consider the murky
problems of political economy and decide
them as her mental darkness guides her. If
she decides wrongly, and the interests of
mankind softer in consequence, mankind
must take its chance. The course of female
education has been decided chiefly by the
prejndice of the male failure who has acted
so long as her master, and if the restrictions
which he has placed upon the feminine
intellect have made woman conservative In
her views, an ardent admirer of the glitter of
courts and monarchies, a worshipper of
religious forms In which banners and Incense
and music serve to disguise the debasing
superstition underneath, he must leave her
to unlearn the lessons of the past at her
leisure. The accession of woman to political
power promises to hamper the cause of
Democracy for generations to come, but If
the great experiment Is postponed for
a century there is no reason to believe
that the world would then be In aD y
better condition to endure the trial. At all
events, the time for the experiment ig
evidently approaching very near, and It 1 B
mere cowardice to endeavour to postpone
the inevitable. After the new system hag
passed through its preliminary stages the
change will probably prove to ba for the
better—it cannot well be for the worse.
Man, so far, has been a conspicuous failure
In almost every capacity, and the doctrine of
human equality demands that woman should
be allowed a chance to fail along with him
and In an equal degree. The government of
the world has been a long succession of
blunders ever since the day when primeval
man shed the last semblance cf his tail and
took his place at the head of creation, and
the old traditions have done so little for
human happiness that they are not worth
regretting.
Charles Stewart Parnell.
When you have hugged yourself »ibh joy for
many months; when you have simply wallowed
in the most delightful anticipations; when the
light of a long expected triumph has glowed in
your eyes until your friends have begun to think
you quite good looking; it is very hard then to
have to swallow the bitter Dead-Sea ashes of dis-
appointment. Those solemn and highly-respect«
able people who placed a child-like confidence in
the blustering of the London Times in re tha
PAENELL-taiting business are to be pitied, there-
fore, as they tearfully gulp their quantum, albeit
the dose is ever so carefully sugar-coated for them
by the obliging Tory cableman. It will be some
satisfaction to the solemn and respectable ones to
know that their bully has been overthrown by no
common person. They will be gratified to learn
that the triumphant man is, after all, really quite
a superior genius, and that the respeotab) 8
“ unities ” have been properly observed in the turn
things have taken.
• • •
The Biitieh House of Commons is the most
jaded-looking affair in the whole world, and
Charles Stewart Parnell, as he i its midway
among the Opposition benches, looks the very
type and genius of the spot He is a long, lean
man with drooping shoulders that once were
broad and Equate. Bis face is death-white, his
features pinched, and the blue veins show up very
distinctly under the tightly drawn skin. But his
eyes burn with the fire which you see in
the eye cf an eagle or in the depths if
an ojal. His brows are hard and polished,
and the dome of his head is a perfect
semi-circle. As a rule his face is rigid and
expressionless, but scored with the lines of vigil
and thought. The clothing cf the man, although
modish in shape and choice in material, is worn
with a carelessness which indicates contempt for
appearances while it fails to hide the natural
elegance of the form Finally, Parnell “Icoks a
thoroughbred.” He rarely speaks now, but when
he does, a hush moves rapidly ever the House—a
compliment paid only to those whom that assem-
bly acknowledges as being a distinct power in the
land. His language is simple and austere, its
ornamentation being as commcnplace as the
adornments of a cottier’s mantel shelf, but it is
direct, clear, and absolutely suitable to his pur-
pose. Parnell never “ puts on side he is never
self-conscious, never constrained. When he has
finished what he stood up to say he sits down
again, heedless whether his last sentence had or bad
not the roundness and finish which are usually con-
sidered indispensable for a conclusion His voice
is hard, and his pronunciation is that of Cam-
bridge University where he spent some year?. He
has no brogue, and his tone is level and mono-
tonous. Nevertheless, Parnell convrys, as no
other man does, the impression of a reserve of
enormous power, passion, and energy concealed
behind his icy veil of self-repression. The thin,
tight-drawn lips only half-hidden by his beard,
the maeculine fiimneES of his face, the uncom-
promising character of his words —few though
they be—the evident stern, unyielding purpose of
the man, all combine to impress, almost to awe.
He is now one of the two or three men at whom
the Tory squires will not howl —not even when
they are drunk.
« • •
There are two kinds of statesmen. One kind
adopt the policy of their party as it developes
itself and mould it so as to produce what they
conceive to be the best results. The other kino
(by much the smaller class) form a policy and
educate their party accordingly. To this
class belongs Charles Stewart Parnell.
To him, however, fell a yet more difficult task.
He had not alone to educate a party, but he had
to conciliate, suppress, revive, restrain, and sus-
tain a hundred parties, all fiercely hostile among
themselves and ready to fall on him and rend him
should he show a sign of flinching or nervousness.
But he triumphantly accomplished the long and
anxious task of moulding and concentrating the
public opinion of Ireland, and he did it by the
sheer strength of a character which possessed pet'
feet coolness, unfailing nerve, an exhaustless but
restrained spirit, a lion’s courage, a tiger’s watch-
fulness, and a capacity for despising the formula)
of respectability and the trammels of effete tradi-
tion which was simply marvellous in its immen-
sity. Having made Ireland what she never was
before in all her changeful history, a practically
unanimous nation, he found little difficulty in )in '
pressing on Parliament the policy he had con-
ceived, for he is facile princeps as a parliamen-
tarian. From being the prisoner of GlaiistoNE
he has become his conqueror and ally. . Once •
bogie for British nurses to frighten their babe
with, he is .now the hero of Radical platforms, as
not all this enough to show the solemn an
respectable ones that Goliath of the Thundery
has fallen before no mere catapult David— tna
the respectability of mediocrity has tucoumne
only to the aristocracy of talent ? Then let ®
solemn and respecta 1 >le take heart—the * ‘ unities
have been observed and maintained.
• • •
But lest their joy should be too extreme, and
develope into that which goes before a fall, 16
them remember this. There was, perhaps, on y
one man in the whole world who derived any **•
amusement from the huge farce which, unde
sanction of an Act of Parliament, and with »n tn
pomp and circumstance of silk-robed, ermine'


Foreign a nd colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite Custom House).
Directors:
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chairman.
E. 0. V. BROUGHTON, Esq ; T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual banking
business.
Interest on Deposits :
12 Months ent
T. S. RICHARDSON ... Managing Directir.
6
3
trimmed British justice, has been performed in
London during these months past, and that was
the sad, subdued man who, fresh from wiping out
Irish disunion, and winning to bis cause all that is
healthy in English Radicalism, knew that he was
able to rum utterly the Times and Toryism with
the very Frankenstein monster which they them-
selves had called forth for his destruction. That
ruin is still impending. Their enemy is lucky and
skilful. With the instinct of genius he knows
when to strike, and his blow is sure, swift and
remorseless. Wherefore, oh, solemn and respec-
table one, be consoled in your present misery with
some joy —but not too much.
“The Fungus of Berryism."
Deyr Bulletin,—Ever so many years ago, when
Mr. G. H. Reid was young and partially innocent,
he composed a political speech, and he has been
delivering it at varying intervals and in different
places, from the Sydney School of Arts to the
New South Wales Legislative Assembly, ever
since. The effect of it is that the only thing in
this world worth a white man’s regard is a facility
for making the monopolist’s shilling procure him
eighteen-penn’orth of black labour. Let Million-
aire Tyson and Cr®3US Burdkkin only have
liberty to employ Chiakies and niggers to provide
their luxuries for them, and the white workman of
Australia should starve with patriotic a’aority, and
comfort himself in his dying moments by trying
to gasp out “ To hell with the Pope and Hurrah for
Uncle Abigail.” Not that Mr Reid favours bring-
ing the Chi at is here to minister as high priest in the
Freetrader’ tjmple of cheapness. He does not
smell n’c s enough for Millionaire Tyson or Orcesds
Burdekin, so they prefer to have his workshop in
Hong Kong or Canton rather than in Waterloo or
Miller’s Point, Distance lends enchantment to
the Chow, and the product of his labour is avail-
able all the same. Some years back the workmen
of Victoria, under the leadership of Graham
Berry, declared that there was no patriotism in
starving themselves in order that the local
monopolist should be enabled to go to Hong
Kong or Calcutta to get eighteen-penn’oroh
for his shilling. Their idea was that unless
they also had a shilling to exchange for
eightee a-penn’orth of nigger-made things they
were out of the game. The result was to estab-
liah a law under which the Victorian boss, in-
stead of getting eighteen penn’orth of black labour
for his shilling, was obliged to be content with a
shilling’s worth from his own countrymen who
are taxed for the defence of his property and the
protection of his life. This sort of thing Mr.
Reid calls the “Fungus of Berryism.”
• # •
I must be excused from writ'ng any further
until I finish sniggering at this.
* * *
Mr. Reid consists chiefly of an easy temper, a
“ fair round belly with good capon lined,” an eye-
glass, a colonial drawl equal to Wises best im-
ported, and a neat set of Coblenish platitudes.
By profession he is a lawyer. And this is the
man who talks about Protection as a fungus !
When I am finished sniggering I must ask per-
mission to go out in the back yard and swear.
• • •
The Fungus of Berrjum! when if a tinker dies
in New South Wales and his widow wants to take
possession of her husband’s soldering-irons, Mr.
Reid is member of a band privileged by law to
bbckmail her. She cannot even ask the Court
for probate of her husband’s will without feeing a
barrister. If anyone but a member of this guild
of which Mr. Reid is a member performs that
simple duty for her, the law of a Free-
trade country decrees that he shall go to
gaol as a common malefactor. Her son, for
instance, might be an intelligent fellow and willing
to help her in the matter for nothing, but there
must ha none of that sort of thiog_ where lawyers
guineas are concerned. Freetrade is all right until
it comes to selecting your own lawyer, but here
the Fungus of Reidism at once steps in and claps
you in gaol if you give a legal job to any but one
of the Devil’s legitimate children.
Yours,
SMITH.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Royalty's Best Friends.
11 With regard bo the visit of the Czar bo Ger-
many, ib has been arranged bhab he and bhe Em-
peror William shall meeb ab Kiel in June.” Wibh
such inane morsels of “ inbelligenoe ” (misleading
word !) does bhe Argus, in common wibh countless
obher daily journals, seek bo give an appearance of
public imporbance bo monarchial movemenbs. In
bhis way are kings, as polibical insbibubions, made
bo seem pillars of bhe earbh and objecbs of enthral*
ling inberesb bo ibs boiling millions. Fancy bhe
Argus flunkey in London bustling into the tele-
graph office with frenzy in his miserable eye, in
order that Australia might hnow ab once—no
waiting six; weeks for items like this, no, by
Heaven !—bhab two kings of countries situated
12,000 miles from our continent, will probably kiss
each other within four months from date of cable-
gram. Or fancy, if you prefer, the editor or sub-
editor of bhe Argus clipping bhe alleged cable-
gram from an English pap'r, and solemnly
handing bhe cussed thing bo bhe “ devil,” whose
great supernatural namesake is gloating over the
doubly humbugging transaction. It is impossible
for any sane man to contemplate either mind-
picture without dimly understanding that the
majesty which doth hedge a king, in these latter
days, is largely manufactured in newspaper offices.
Even bhe pageantry of royalty—bhe triumphal
processions, headed by brass bands and prepos-
terously-clad hired assassins—would soon excite
ridicule and active discontent unless the “papers”
previously worked up the feeble public mind bo a
state of foolish expectation, and unless bhe illus-
trated Tory journals subsequently apotheosised
the central figures of such precessions in a series
of grovelling “cuts,” The evil influence of illus-
trated papers in creating and keeping alive a sham
regard for the Crown and its numerous hangers-on
is nob properly understood by the careless masses,
Yeb they present in pictorial, and often alluring,
form those tame ideas with which the “loyal”
organs o! the classes saturate their drowsy columns.
Let us go to England to prove our case, and let
us take bhe Illustrated London News and
■Graphic for convincing evidence in support
thereof. It is almost impossible to light upon
a number of either print that doesn’t con-
tain a picture of Tummy, or his wife,
sketched from life or from the artist’s im-
agination. They are represented as driving
along streets lined by people waving hats and
handkerchiefs. They are represented as hitting
foundation-stones with silver mallets, to the
intense gratification of invited guests who are as
usual waving hats and handkerchiefs They are
represented in godlike attitudes at levees and
drawing-rooms, acknowledging the obeisances of
elegantly attired idolaters. And the average
Briton, who cannot look into a stationer’s window
without seeing one or more of such illustrations,
gradually cernes to accept them in all seriousness
as great moral lessons, and feels that it must be
the whole duty of man to bow low, or wave his
hat, to every royal loafer undrr the sun. When
Walks and his Princess, or the Queen and Bat-
tenbeeg are not available as subjects for the
übiquitous special artist, then foreign bigwigs are
depicted in the act of receiving homage, or playing
some gaudy farce amongst their royal selves. This
precious meeting at Kiel next June, in which the
Argus pretends to believe that Australia is
deeply interested—this flying visit of cne non-
productive man in uniform to another dressed-up
drone will be duly endowed with fictitious interest
by the Illustrated London News, unless the Czar
meets his inevitable doom from a dynam'te explo-
sion in the meantime. The journal last mentioned
will doubtless decorate its deplorable Australian
edition with pictures of the exalted Russian and
the exalted German meeting. The Meeting of the
Emperors ! Bah ! We repeat it—the evil influ-
ence of illustrated papers in creating and keeping
alive a sham regard for the Crown and its numer-
ous hangers-on is not properly understood by the
careless masses. The Arguses of this world are
bad enough, but their power to foster loyalty by
means of twaddling telegrams and leaden leaders
is nothing compared with the power of pictures.
“ Boss” Tweed, the crafty New Yorker, is credited
with saying that ha “ didn’t mind what they
wrote ” about his rascalities, “it vas the picture*
that killed him And it is the pictures which are
keeping the numerous royal snobs in their places.
For one Bulletin there are five hundred Tory-
managed periodicals publishing fascinating views
of princes and princesses, always doing something
striking, and always surrounded by devoted sub-
jects waving hats and handkerchiefs. Did anyone
ever discover a sketch of the Queen’s Jubilee
Procession at tha moment when a driven-back
crowd of half-starved jubilators were jeering their
beloved Queen? The special artist never sees
such unpleasant things. He would be “ sacked ”if
he put them into pictorial form, and bis original
sketches would be dropped into the office fire with
a pair of tongs, by his loyal editor. Tae artist is
engaged to glorify “ demonstrations ” more hollow
than the hollowest efforts of S;dney or Melbourne
officialdom. He is the chief buttress of many
blessed Thrones, and when those two Emperors
assemble and meet together next June, we hope
he will draw the glorious incident on a wood plate
for our dear old Argus,
Secular Education in Danger !
As a cerbain New South Wales politician has
often remarked, the Denominabionalisbs must be
given no weapon wherewith they can effectively
dispute the morality of the free, secular, and compul-
sory State-school system. The abolition of reli-
gious teaching should not—must not—mean the
apparent institution of a reign of immorality. No
one must be permitted to directly or indirectly
patronise or publicly to associate himself with the
State-schools whose moral reputation is such that
society would hesitate to touch him or his with a
pair of tongs. The schoolmaster or schoolmistress
detected in offence s against conventional morality is
summarily dismissed and unmercifully punished.
Society, being thus exacting with respect to the
moral qualifications of the humblest persons
taking an active part in its educational system,
must be a thousand times more exacting still with
respect to the personages who are set up as
patrons of pub’ic education, and inferentially as
examplars for imitation not only by the boys
and girls but by the men and women of the
country. Hughes-Hallett or Dilke must never
be the patron or visitor of an Australian public
school. Is there not any member of the New
South Wales Parliament patriotic enough to point
the tale which will adorn this moral ? The tale is
obvious enough. It has been published in all the
newspapers of the land.
♦
The Northern Leper.
Within the last few days Queensland has been
blessed with a new experience cone arcing the ways
of the affable Chinaman—the patient, inoffensive,
cheap labourer who has come down from the
Flowery Land to prospect the colonies of Austra-
lasia. In the peaceful little town of Buudaberg
the police accidentally dropped upon a European
girl of 13 years who had been rented out by her
mother to live in a Chinese den and be the play-
thing of a horde of Kanakas, Mongols, and other
human refuse, it being provided in the agreement
that the boss leper and owner of the establishment
should, at some future date, take her to be his wife,
and make her the legitimate and lawful possessor
of his infected cognomen. Up to the present date
no one has hanged this particular Chinaman, and
as far as can be gathered from the newspaper re
ports he still lives and prospers. Nothing of a
lingering and humorous nature with melted lead
and boiling oil in it has been done to him, and the
few people who are intimately acquainted with
the inner life of the Mongol quarters consider the
matter as one of such common occurrence as hardly
to deserve notice. Chinese immigration has been
practically abolished in these colonies, but British
influence and the dull, inert cowardice of the
various nominee Councils of Australasia have pre-
vented any active measures being taken to drive
out the existing leper from the land, and mean-
while his social theories and the fancy and orna-
mental complaint which is his trade mark in every
land, are taking root, and every now and then a
white man developes symptoms of leprosy and is
hurried away to some remote sanatorium to be out
of sight for the rest of his life, or a European girl
acquires the disease in some subterranean Chinese
den and—well, her after fate is a mystery. She is
buried, probably, but beyond that ij is difficult to
trace cut her career, acd how she is got ready for
burial only the Chinaman can tell. No exp .nsive
bishop or high-priced pastor worries much about
the fate of these outcasts, and the Chinaman’s
ghastly immorality will never lead to his final
expulsion from Australian soil. His leprosy
possibly may—when a politician, or a millionaire,
or a hanger-on of Government House, or a digni-
tary of the church acquires the infection and comes
out in plague-spots, and therefore we wait anxiously
for some wealthy landlord of Chinese dens to be
stricken with the malignant contagion which
hangs round the notes in which the Mongol pays
bis rent, or for some bearer of good tidings to he
contaminated by the effluvium of the plate into
which the “saved Chow” drops his offering in
order that he may sell cabbages at the back-doors
of the congregation—but the prccass is a long cne
and the day of retribution hangs fire. Yet, s coner
or later, the inevitable »esult must come, and then
probably the last Chow will be rushed down a
steep place into the sea and Australia will be at
rest. Speaking on this subject, a Democratic
Queensland journalist says :
Leprosy is of all diseases the vilest and the worst. It is
fouler than smallpox, and is as incurable as, or more in-
curable than, consumption. liis the same now as when
it made the oiptain of tte hosts of Syiia an outcast from
those he ruled and Jordan’s waters a r e no longer im-
bued with healing for those who dip seven times. Career,
even cancer, is not as hp-esy is. Cancer does not poison
tfe air around nor spread the germs whose very touch
may be coutsminationardan awful death to the healthiest
and bravest Cancer docs not necessarily clothe the
living in repu'sion nor put' efy the entire holy while the
soul within stnl breathes anl fee’s. But leprosy 1
Leprosy might have been invented as a punishmen t for
the seraphim who rcse with Satan in relellion. Human
skill cannot heal it nor human c re stay its progress
whfra it has foothold, and even the love cf woman might
well shrink aghast from the hideous task of nursing the
stricken leper to the grave. This is the doom which we
risk by Chinese contact. It is a consolation to know tlat
wa all risk it together, that the gold-glutted pro-Chinese
is as liable to contamina' ion as was Naaman, the captain
of the hosts of Syria, that the squatter’s daughter will
herd on the leper-island with the sweated sewing woman,
and that from Government House Uself the cry of a tor-
tured soul may ri s e in accusation as it Ins risen more than
once from the palace of Honolulu's queen. Leprosy ji
democratic, to give it its due. It recognises no distinc-
tion of caste or class, of sex er creed or previous condition.
Leprosy is democratic. Some day the priest
and the boss Orange fanatic and the Go/ernor and
the millionaire land-owner may find themselves
chained together in the awful companionship of
incurable disease, and then perhaps the last of the
Chinese may go.
♦
At Cierkenweli, London, it recently transpired
that the local contractors pay females fourteen
pence a day for sifting dust and ashes, the day’s
toil extending over about ten hours. Tna work
is done in a large yard, and there the women and
girls stand all day up to their knees in dust and
miscellaneous horrors, working in an atmosphere
thick and impenetrable with fi rating ashes. Four
or five years of this employment is death written
large; bat this isn’t anybody’s business—these
matters are regulated by the laws of demand and
supply, as the Freetraders put it—and the wages
are adjusted by Free Competition, A little annoy-
ance was created last January, however, by the
inconsiderate conduct of two women who fell
down dead—smothered—at their work, and whose
porpses had to be sifted out of the ashes and re-
moved at the expense of the contractor, and this
action on their part is universally regarded as a
great bore by the trade. Two other women were
promptly hired, however, and so the business un-
derwent no serious interruption.
The Queen has “ commanded ” that at the Royal
drawing-rooms next season the silks worn shall be
of English manufacture only. Tais is but another
example of that mongrel, half-hearted variety of
progress which may be aptly dubbed “Protec-
tion by Prejudice,” “Ereetrade” England,
hating to admit that she has on her conscience a
fiscal blunder of 40 years’ standing, seeks to throw
over her languishing industries the illegitimate
cegis of petty prejudice. It occurs to The Bulle-
tin that a Protection Tariff, spelt that way, and
that way only, would be a more honourable and
effective method of stimulating home manufacture,
than devious attempts to create “patriotic” pre-
judices against foreign manufactures by stamping
such goods “Made in Germany,” or by a Royal
sumptuary “ command ” to smart society women.
♦
A Sydney evening paper publishes the following
letter which is ascribed to the “fonetik ” Abigail,
ately New South Wales Minister for Mines , and
judging from the noble disregard for spelling,
sense, apd punctuation, and from other distinctly
Abigailian features, it is hardly possible that
anyone else could have written it, even had he
tried
‘ Dear Sir and Brother, —
“ Tne present contest is more popery than Fiscal Dibbs
dined wish Cardinal tnoran last moaday 1 of the Govern-
ment are Heme or R ime rulers and you may be sura that
if by any means toe could get a majority popery would
have a rare fling our principles are Freedom and I hope
our members will go for it to the Death the enolosed will
show you what is meant Yjurs,
“ F. Abigail.”
Francis Abigail, man of miiplaeed capitals and
outraged parts of speech, father of unpunctuated
literature, ignorant iconoclast and destroyer of the
art of spelling, illiterate apostle of badly-smudged
correspondence, prophet of a wrecked language
and banshee that howls over the grave where
Walker’s Dictionary lies neglected and forgotten
— Abigail, scawler of phonetic “minits,” uncul-
tured politician, leather-souled shoemaker, hoarse
singer of Orange Ledge orgies, terrified and
bogey-haunted “ traveller on religion,” unlettered
son of a race that apparently writes with its
knife, director of a several par-shent “ bank,”
howler over dead faidhs, and second hand Kiama
Ghost—did you write that letter, and, if so, why
didn’t you hire someone to put less degraded
bigotry and more education into the production ?
“ iz thi Suvvanfc a Dorgg thet e shood Do this
tHiNg ?” Consider that text, Abigail, and don’t
write letters any more.
♦
The Adelaide correspondent of Sydney Evun
Noose is still faithfully delving among the gar-
bage of the world. The other day he, on the
arrival of the mail at his holy cidy, wired to
Sydney the hideous details of the defilement and
murder of a girl by her sweetheart in England.
Ihe telegram stated, amongst other things, that
it) was believed “ the murderer’s mind had been
affected through reading the accounts of the
Whidf chapel murders.” Thus have the details of
one of the most savage assassinations ever recorded
been spread broadcast by the Noose— “circulation
three times that of any other daily paper ” —yah !
for the edification of the homicidal cranks of
our country.
+
When the annual balance-sheet of the Syd-
ney Free trade Association comes out it is
always made to appear that the Association is a
nice little tin-pot affair which fights only with
verbal argument and never spends any money to
push along the cause of shoddy. You generally
see, for instance, something like this Receipts,
£5l; expenditure, £73; deficiency, £2l, “which
it is earnestly hoped the members will make up at
an early date.” But as a matter of fact the New
South Wales Foreign-trade Association is by no
means a tip-top affair. A certain member of it,
after securing his own return in the recent elec-
tion campaign, shelled out a cool £lOOO in aid of
the gospel of Calico Jimmy, and The Bulletin
believes that it would be quite within the mark to
say that the association has just disbursed at least
£lB,OOO in hard cash in the endeavour to wipe out
Protection. The fact of the matter is that there
are two Freetrade Associations—one an art’ess-
Icoking little affair which deals in five sbillingses
and half-guineas and is always in debt £lllos. Id,
or so ; and the other a secret organisation which
sits in the dark and spends money like water,
4
Pope Leo XIII, has at last condescended to leave
the Vatican —where for 18 years the Popes have
kept up a feeble show of being imprisoned for
conscience-sake —and has been seen by the faith-
ful sniffing the Roman breeze out of doors. The
Argonaut howls derisively over the event as
follows: —
Our profound sympathy has been stirred for the im-
prisoned Pops. For these 18 years he has been confined
within his own sumptuous palace of the Vatican, not
allowed to walk abroad save in his own extensive pleasure
grounds ; not permitted to see the light of heaven except
through stained glass ; compelled to subsist upon prison
fare sumptuously prepared by skillful cooks and served
upon disnes of silver and plates of gold ; breathing no
breath of fresh air that did not come through perfumed
groves filled with the melody of birds ; his only freedom
of personal movement through many thousand rooms,
galleries, broad halls, stairways, gi'ded, tapestried,
and frescoed by Michael Angelo, enriched and
adorned by sculpture, painting, wood-carving, pic-
tures in mosaics of marble ; provided with bands of
muse; guarded by S»iss; waited on by cardinals,
priests, and laymen; adored as the vicegerent of God
receiving deputations from foreign lands, visits from
crowned kings, presents from an admiring world, to the
extent of millions in value ; clothed in embroidered vest-
ments, blazing in jswels, and recognised by an hundred
millions of worshippers as civil monarch of all the earth,
as representative of God, as holding the keys of the
heavenly Jerusalem. Pi or, perseouted, imprisoned, un-
happ/ Pope 1 As successor of St. Peter, who was a
fisher of fish, he has been compelled to fish for men.
Christ the God was permitted in freedom to vie with
the beasts of the field and the birds of the air for
a place where to lay His head, while this poor sove-
reign of all the earth has been confined to a sump-
tuous royal palace, amid works of art and sur-
rounded by all the vain pomes and pageants of royalty.
Christ the Lord made a mistake while on earth by sur-
rendering to the “powers,” by living obedient to
“ autho ity,” by “rendering unto C.ehar the things that
were C.v.sar’s,’ and by ‘rendering unto God the things
that w era God's ”; bad He been a king by divine authority,
hal He enjoyed the “keys,” htd He been clothed with
“ i- f Hlibility ’ —while in the flesh—He might have lived in
a palace, been surrounded by guards, worn a crown other
than thorns, and died a happier death than by cruci-
fixion. We are so glad that th : s cruel persecution cf
Leo the Thirteenth is etded, so delighted that he has
o.nsented to walk down the magnificent, chiseled, Parian
stairw>y from out the splendid environments of his
sumptuous palace into.the great Basilica of St. Peter’s,
that we cannot refrain from the expression of our eatis-
faobion and the hope that he will farther emancipate
hi nself from the thraldom of his surroundings by tossing
his three-storied tiara from tie tower cf f’astle of San
Angelo into the yellow liber.
The people of D=mliquin seem to be up in arms
against Mr. Justice Windeyer for his rudeness of
speech and, generally, for his unseemly conduct in
the exercise of his high offi:e. For years The
Bulletin has had the duty forced upon it of
bringing before the public the utter unfitness of
this official to occupy a seat on the judicial bench.
Should he be allowed to occupy hia present posi-
tion without at the same time withdrawing from
a ccu-se of conduct already associated with at
Jevst one scandalous perversion of justice, the
Supreme Court of the colony will be degraded
past redemption. The apparently justifiable coin-
meats made by a dozen or more country newspapers
on this Judge’s method of conducting business on
the Western Circuit were, months ago, brought
under the notice of the Minister of Justice of the
day and of the Chief Justice, but apparently with-
out result. That anyone who dared to conduct a
judicial hearing, involving the lives of citizens, in
the manner in which Judge Windeser conducted
the Mount Rennie case should have been allowed
to remain on the judicial bench for one instant is
a reproach to Ausiralia.
+
The Secretary of the Sydney Single Tax League
denies that “the protective duty on sugar, can-
dles, biscuits, kerosene, corn-flour, and jams, &c.,
has cheapened these araicles,” and, in attempting
to prove the truth of Ms denial, argues that “a
ship-master can obtain sugar in bond, for consump-
tion on board only, at £2O per ton, whereas the
shore consumer would have to pay £25 per ton,”
thus clearly showing that he has not thoroughly
considered the question. To do this he would have - '
to take into consideration the price paid ashore
and afloat, before the springing up of local re-
fineries under the fostering care of partial protec-
tion forced the importers to lower their prices,
which, by leaguing together, they had hitherto
been enabled to maintain.


At Mark Young's Pier Hotel, Frank bon, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratia with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Oaowa Pssfumbbt Oo.’s
Stands in the MELBOURNE EXHIBITION. All Mel-
bourne is on this Scent.
B
BN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFICE
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. H. MACUKDT,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile and
Letterpress Printer, Dieslnker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Account Book Manufacturer, Ac., Ac.
Maelardy's MS Bom cf Stationery a specialty. Send to*
List of Contents.
Note Address— ——
819 QBORQB STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xma* Card*
and Fancy Good*. Inspection Invited.
Stobk Cattle fob Salk.— looo male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
The Referee.
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —I notice that In
your last issue a correspondent, signing himself
“W.5.T.,” derides your opinion that Slavin is a
better man than Peter Jackson. Until two men
meet their merits must be a matter of opinion,
and “W.S.T.” has no more ground for saying
that Jackson is the better than you have for say-
ing that Slavin is the better ; when they meet we
will know which is right, but, until then, let every
man have his own opinion. It so happens that I
am quite agreed with you that Slavin is a bit of a
wonder, and if the men meet I shall ba very happy
to put up some hard-earned golden money in sup-
port of my opinion if “W.S.T.” will do likewise.
I am not much of a writer, but money talks all
languages; so, if the men meet, I shall be happy
to back my opinion, and until they meet and
Jackson wins, I think “W.ST.” ought to wait
before calling other people wrong when it is a
matter of opinion.—Yours, Queenslander.
• * •
B. R. Wise, of Foreign-trade renown, la
considered by some competent authorities to be
the fastest mile runner that ever wore a running-
pump. He was president of the Oxford Univer-
sity Athletic Club, and won the mile on two
successive occasions at the Inter-University sports.
His greatest achievement, however, was winning
the amateur championship of 1881, when he de-
feated W. G. George, the present professional
champion, both starting off the same mark. Mr.
Wise was also mainly instrumental in bringing
about in 1881 a settlement of the amateur defini-
tion on a broad and comprehensive basis, by which
herd and peasant were enabled to meet on the
running path. It will be remembered that he a
short time ago properly snubbed a Sydney asso-
ciation which classed mechanics as amateurs and
labourers as professionals. No other course was
open to the man who carried the principle that an
athlete, no matter his occupation, was an amateur
so long as he derived no pecuniary emolument
from the game.
• • »
In the “Place Consultations ’* now being
extensively advertised in a section of the Sydney
press, a new field is opened for exploitation by the
chevaliers d'industrie In New Zealand, where
the totalisator is licensed by Act of Parliament,
where it is used under the strict supervision of
established and respectable racing-clubs, it has
been found impossible to utterly keep the hands
of the swindler out of the pockets of the public.
If a Parliamentary statute and 25 racing clubs
are unable to keep the totalisator free from sus-
picion in Maoriland, how can the application of
the parimutuel principle be expected to work
fairly in N.S.W. without any supervision, with-
out a Legislative enactment, and with no more
responsibility than exists in the moral code of
the average sporting tobacconist? There are a
thousand and one opportunities for swindling in
secret totalisators —which these “Place Consulta-
tions ” unquestionably are—but it would serve no
useful purpose to suggest any of them here. How-
ever, wa may point to one very palpable little
piece of deception in connection with a “ Place
Consultation ” on the last Carington Handicap,
the result of which is announced in a recent edition
of a Sunday paper. The gentleman who con-
ducted the sweep concealed his identity under the
nom de guerre of “ Rudolph,” and he states joy-
fully in about 12 inches of displayed typa that his
Consultation closed with 264 subscribers at 10s.
Then followed a list of competitors in the handi-
cap, the names of each competitor being followed
by the number of investors who pinned their faith
to him. The list read as follows :
J. Sharpe 4C. Linden .. ..4
E. M. Robbards .. .. 28 L. Barns 4
G. A. Studdart .. ..16 D. Braithwaite ~ ..16
W. J. Willard .. .. 8 W. E Jackson .. ..4
J. D. Layton .. ..16 J. J. Moore .. ..4
R. G. Agnew .. ..8 Joe W. B/rnes .. ..4
T. Westward .. ..16 T- Pringle 4
J. Murray (a) ..12 T. E. M'Auhfle .. .. 4
E. Weekly .. ..4 W. Neil len .. ..4
F. Bowen 4 H. Foy .. ... •• 8
J. Lozan 4 E. Sutton 12
C. Samuels (a) .. ..8 RR. Williams .. ..4
A, Wall .. .. ..4 W. Curtin 4
C. H. Bushell .. ..12 H. J. Harris .. ..8
C. Rsin 4 A. Warner .. .. 4
Joe Price 8 M. Learhinan .. ..4
W. Rsad 4 A. Pritchard .. ..4
E. Penno 4 C. Banks.. .. ..4
To the casual observer this list may appear as
innocent of guile as the girdle of a vestal, but a
little investigation shows that figures can lie
and that they can tell lies about themselves. It
will be seen that the lowest number of investors
on each competitor is 4. And why four ? Surely
it is something more than a coincidence that more
than half the competitors should have been hacked
four times and four times only, no more and no less.
A further glance and a little mental arithmetic
discloses that the balance of the numbers are
either 8, 12, 16, or 28, of all of which numbers 4 is
the multiple ; thus twice 4 are 8, thrice 4 are 12,
seven times 4 are 28 —and so on. Surely the un-
erring occurrence of the 4, either by itself or as
the multiple of another number, is something more
than an accident. There is here shown, we assert,
circumstantial evidence that the gay “Rudolph’ has
quietly multiplied the number of the subscribers
to his Consultation by four with the object of
making the public believe that he had been
entrusted with four times more public money
than he really had been—a bait, of course, to
catch more flats next trip.
. - •
The drawings of “ Adam Bede’s ” two
Consultations on the Newmarket Handicap and
Australian Cup took place on Wednesday, Feb-
ruary 27th, and Monday, March 4th—on both oc-
casions there being present a number of pressmen
and representatives of some of the leading bank-
ing and mercantile institutions of Sydney. For
obvious reasons we do not publish the names of
the gentlemen who attended, but the function was
carried out in a thoroughly fair and satisfactory
manner ; and at the termination of both drawings
certificates to the foregoing effect, fully signed by
those present, were handed to the promoter.
The system of drawing is verv simple and effec-
tive. The numbers of the tickets are represented
by wooden marbles, which, prior to being placed
in the lottery-barrel, are arranged consecutively
in trays, 100 marbles to a tray. Each tray is
checked over by the Committee before its contents
are placed in the barrel. The names o! the horses
are written on stiff pieces of cardboard and are
placed in a smaller barrel. The barrels having
been revolved a number of times to thoroughly
mix their contents, a marble is drawn from the
larger barrel and announced, and at the same time
the name of a horse is taken from the smaller re-
ceptacle. The name of the horse drawn is placed
against the number and the chance then belongs to
the holder o! the ticket bearing the fortunate num-
ber. The Newmarket Handicap Consultation closed
with 1309 subscribers, and the Australian Cup
with 667. The first prize in the Newmarket
Handicap, amounting to £471, went to the
Thames, NZ,; the second (£176), to Hartley
Vale, N.S.W.; and the third (£117), to Auckland,
NZ. In the Avstralian Cup, the drawer cf
Lochiel resides in Sydney, the second prize goes to
Thargomindah, Queensland, and the third Albury,
N.S.W. If any of the holders of the placed horses
send inwritingto* 1 Adam Bede” permission to pub-
lish their names he will, no doubt, be happy to do
so. On Tuesday morning we received from “Adam
Bede” a cheque for £39 ss. 33., being three-tenths
of his commission on the Newmarket Handicap.
Of this amount we have sent £3O to Mr. H. C.
Russell, secretary of Sydney Hospital, and
£9 5 1. 3d. to Mr. T. S. Clibhorn, secretary to the
A. J.C., to be placed by him to the credit of the
Distressed Jockeys’ Fund. Next week we will be
/Up wc_S £C ' Yf f E -^
Con]i£ oK
L (W
fjH 1 '
“TIMOTHEUS.”
(HOWARD WILLOUGHBY, MELBOURNE “ARGUS”)
able to send cheques to the same charities from
the commission on the Australian Cup Consulta-
tion. The Bulletin ii pretty sure that it will
ere long ba imposti hie to get the Australian public
to subscribe a shilling to any sweep, part of the
commission on which is not devoted to charitable
purposes.
• • *
Charles Messenger, boatbullder, son, by
the way, of an English champion sculler, has
taken a pub at Penrith, and intends to give the
yokels some sculling handicaps. Messenger is a
genius in his line, and revolutionised the light
skiff by building it with a wager-boat bottom.
• • •
No less than 16 boats, of all lengths from
20 to 26 feet, started in the Sydney Amateur Sail-
ing Club’s best-and-beat-raop, when the Irex, 22ft ,
sailed without a mistake by her owner, Mr. N.
Johnson, completely outstripped the fleet and won
without time allowance.
* * *
The so-called race over the Champion
Course, last Friday, between Charles Matterson
and J. Kennedy, proved a great sell for the few
who “ parted ” to see it. Poor man as the younger
Matterson is he could scarcely row slow enough to
keep Kennedy in sight.
* • •
lb isn’t often we hear now of a horse being
“ nobbled.” Just before last Moorefield meeting
Mr. John Bennett’s Lady Jane was badly dosed
by some scoundrel. The needle and hypodermic
syringe in the palm of a kind friend, probably.
• • *
The “ Herd Laddie ” “ raises the wind ’’
by “ draughts."
♦ * *
The Era was to the fore on Saturday for
the Prince Alfred Yacht Club Handicap, when
she made an easy win from Mr. Smairl’s 31-tonner
the Volunteer. The Era was sailed by her owner,
Mr. Milson, without a mistake, but Mr. Reeks
was not quite so happy with the piokhandle of the
Volunteer.
# • •
The biggest thoroughbred racing mare in
Australia is Erene, who won the Trial Stakes at
Ooraki (N.S.W.) meeting. The mare is a four-
year-old, standing 17 hands 2 inches high.
• • •
Australia has sent home cricketers, foot-
ballers and scullers for the twofold object of mak-
ing money and advertising the colony. Why does
not someone take black Samuels to Europe and
America, for there is more money in the aboriginal
than in Beach, Trickett, or a whole team of
cricketers, and the expenses would be trifling.
The climate should not affect Samuels' runmag in
England, provided he landed in May or June, and
he would have three or four months there and an
opportunity for a run through America during the
Fall, as the Yankees say. Anyway, Samuels can-
not gain any more money in Australia. The un-
sophisticated blackfellow has shown his true form
instead of learning to run stiff. Though we do
not think Samuels equal to the best English pros.,
we believe there is plenty of money in the above
idea.
• • •
First Sport: “Strange that The Bulletin
did not tip Sedition for the Newmarket.” Second
Sport: “How so?” First Sport: “It’s always
preaching it, you know.”
* • •
The three beat colta In the old country at
present are Donovan, Ohitabob, and Laureate.
The latter will prove a formidable opponent to
Donovan, who is reckoned a “ dead bird ” for the
“Two Thousand.” The best of the fillies at pre-
sent is Antibes, who ought to win the Oaks and
“ One Thousand Guineas.”
• • •
The rascality which has always been so
rampant in connection with English sea-side race
meetings is not peculiar to the old csuntry. The
Melbourne “ scum of the course ” had a high time
at Queensoliff races the other day. They fairly
took possession of the Ozone steamer on its trip
down Hobson s Bay, and completed their reign of
terror by shaking a lot of passenger money
(£BO odd) from the purser’s office. There must be
something exciting about sea air.
• ■ •
The effects of the Melbourne land boom
going bung were visible at Flemington, last
Saturday, when an interesting day’s racirg, in the
best of weather, drew an attendance which
probably fell short of last year’s returns. Pro-
ceedings opened, according to expectation, with a
sequence of wins for the Hon. James White.
After Abercorn had easily landed the Essendon
S take s, one of the s 9 little surprises for which the Hon.
James is becoming famous, was supplied by Spice,
the little filly being neglected at 7 to 1 while guile-
less punters were laying odds on her stable com-
panion Rudolph, under a vain impression that Hales
must be riding the right one. A few half-hearted
groans welcomed Hales as he returned to scale
with the defeated crack, but things came right
again when Volley (well backed by Mr. White’s
devoted followers) won the St. Leger without ever
being pushed. Pearl shell and Melos, who made
an exhibition of Volley four months back, were
hopelessly cut of it on this occasion, and the
glorious uncertainty of the turf- good old phrase !
—asserted itself once more.
• • *
The fact that a long “ bottled up ” mare
like Sedition had regained best form prevented
The Bulletin from bringing off another very
straight tip in verse. In undertaking to find the
winner of a Newmarket Handicap the prophet
has a large contract on hand, and it is worth
noticing that no conventional tipster in Australia
included Sedition among the little three to which
he pinned his shaky faith. The Bulletin went
for Lochiel to beat Carbine and other top
weights. The New Zealand horse did beat them
handsomely, thereby justifying his trainer’s pre-
diction that if anything finished in front of
Lochiel, it would be one of the dark ’uns with
nothing on their backs. That Sedition won easily,
however, was evident when she returned to the
paddock and began to eat grass with the calm
persistency of an old cow. The Caulfield people
backed her to a man- Lochiel, on Tuesday last,
more than justified The Bulletin’s confidence in
him, by putting down every thing in the Austral
lian Cup.
* * *
Hales has ridden the winner of the Y.li C.
St. Leger eight times in the last 11 years, and
Mr, James White figures as the lucky owner for
1884-86-87-88, and 'B9.
It • •
A backer hid an even “ monkey ’’ on
Carbine, Cranbrook, Tradition, and Lady Betty
against the fie’d for the Newmarket Handicap.
* * *
Little Sammy Cracknel), seldom seen in
the saddle now-a-days, managed to get home on
Loyalist for the last race of the day, although
N.S.W. would have had another throw-in with
Steel Arrow, but for Fielder holding back the grey
until the winning-post wasn’t far enough away.
Queensland mining must be based on
better grounds than the bulk of our ventures in
New South Wales ; for it is apparent every
northern goldfield indicates a steady advance in
the number of dividend-paying mites. Mount
Morgan is very much to the fore with £lOO,OOO per
month — £1,200,000 per annum! By Mahomet and
the Prophets!—May its shadow and dividends
never become less. The Anglo-Saxon, on the
Palmer, is keeping up its reputation; lOoz. of
stone per ton and plenty of it. Charters Towers
is prouder than ever —of the Queen and Day Dawn
lines of reef, turning out thousands of tons every
month. Ravens wood boasts of a lode of copper
and gold—known as the Old Man claim— 40 feet
wide. From Calliope and Carrara, once the scene
of the old Port Curtis rush, come glowing report?.
On the former place the cream of the old
goldfield has been secured as freehold —nearly
two thousand acres—containing a network of reef?,
and enormous masses of alluvial. The action ot
the Queensland Government in allowing such an
extent of auriferous ground to be quietly annexed
as homestead areas about 15 years ago was in
effect a direct robbery of the rights of the miner.
He lifteth up his voice and objecteth strongly in
local newspapers, and the lucky owners of the
Calliope Freehold merely drop a sympathetic t?ar
but won’t abandon an iota of their riahts. The
well-known New Zealand Gully, which returned
tons of gold in the past, is contained in the free-
hold. This gully has enormous banks of alluvial
which will shortly be worked by English capital.
Only recently Queensland has been twitted with
the absence of silver mines, but the late develop-
ment of the Star District, near Townsville, die-
closes argentiferous country said to put Broken
Hill in the shade. The Hero Freehold appears at
present to be the crack company—Bo bags of ore
(under three tons in weight) sent down as a sample
from the main lode gave a return of about 900 oz.
of silver and nearly 3 oz. of gold. It is said that
the lode is both strong and good. News comes
from the Gilbert of a large silver lode being
opened there —some 20 feet in thickness. At
Agate Creek, near Gilbert, a hot spring was dis-
covered, the mud thrown up being heavily im-
pregnated with gold. The prospectors were driven
off by the blacks, one man being speared; but the
undaunted Geordies propose to return with the in-
tention of making it hotter for the niggers than
the thermal springs. The now notorious Taran-
ganba never found favour with Queenslanders
who, as a rule, are modest men with an aversion
to grow rich too expeditiously. The measure ot
their avarice refined to take in 20 million tons ot
stone averaging 10 ounces of gold to the ton •
Mount Morgan was good enough for them—so
they generously gave up Taranganba to certain
amiable Philistines resident in Sydney, who, alas.
didn’t distrust the gifts the Greece-Queenslanders
sent them. It was generally understood that the
Taranganba stone resembled its neighbour Mount
Morgan in appsarance. Strangely enough this
doesn’t surprise the local resident in the least. H-0
says the sample stone is very like — very!


High Abt Photogbaphy.—For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
& CO., Royal Arcade, stand pre-emmentlv high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord
“ By Appointment.”
Sundry Shows.
Theatre royal— “ Never Too Late to
1 Mend” u
Hbb Majesty's.—" The Vendetta ” n
Obitbbion. —“ Betsy "
“Betsy,” ab Sydney Criterion, attracts
more audience than the establishment is well cal-
culated to contain, and an era of prosperity—if we
are fitted by nature and training to distinguish
between that object and a mangle at the first try
u aa dawned on the Brough and Bouclcault
association. Betsy, who bestows her short, crisp
coznomen on the piece, is a domestic who alone is
worth the price of admission, and all those home-
holders whose lives are one continued friction
against the rampant slavey of the hour—the
our-r-rl from the bogs who drops her hair in the
butter, and abstractedly hangs the baby head-
downwards by one leg while she converses
with the policeman, and plays the puno with
her huge, floundering feet when the missus is
out—should see her, and dream during one brief
hour of bliss of what existence would be like if a
cirl of her description would accept Bs. a week,
and work 16 hours a day, and have all the rest of
her time to herself. As a rule, the Australian
lady who hires a domestic goes about with her life
in one hand and an odd shoe in the other, because
the slavey has borrowed her remaining hoof-case
to grow a geranium in and has watered that
simple flower with the gravy, or if she hasn t
done that she has borrowed her mistress s back hair
to “shoo ” the cat off the verandah with; and in the
face of such experiences Miss Battle Brownes
Betsy is a joy too great for earth. Mr. vV. hr.
Anson realises our almost impossible ideal
of a model parent by the way he enacts a certain
leathery, wooden-headed father, in a picturesque
misfit capacious enough to hold two of the stupidest
fathers alive—an elderly, stumbling person who
flaps solemn admonitions at his offspring with a
wobbly and uncertain hard, and strikes huge
rheumatic attitudes which threaten to bring him
out unexpectedly from the back of his clothes.
Our own beloved Tioheradge—in future we are
going to give up calling this gentleman Mr., as
we notice that other great men, such as Caesar,
Napoleon, and Hannibal are never afflicted with
that designation—appears as Captain M Manus,
from Oireland, who carries about with him
under his overcoat a tendency to murder
and rapine, and jealousy, and nurses secret
inclinations bo go out at night and be a rakish
pirate holditg a girl to his capacious bosom. Miss
May Burney shines on the Criterion programme
f or the first time as Mrs, Birkett, and the rest of
the cast is filled by the customary genius which
Messrs. Brough and Bouclcault always keep
bottled on the premises. “ Betsy,” especially in
the hands of the Criterion company, is no slouch
of a comedy, and compared to sundry pieces we
know of which are now towing themselves like
various broken-backed snakes over the precipitous
heap of public misery in different places that we
could mention, if it wasn’t that the white-winged
dove of peace might be badly strained by such
unwonted frankness, it is like unto a vision of
rippling waters in a land of literary thirst and
* • * *
“ Never too La'e to Mend ” —the latest
production at Sydney Royal is, so far as it
depends upon the acting of Mr. Warner, some-
what less fiendish than “ Captain bwift, and if
the much advertised star does nothhig worse than
Tom Robinson the chances seem to be that he will
get away from Australia alive, A week ago we
would not have cared to be alone with Mr. Warner
at midnight in the middle of a dense forest, for
fear tome admiring critic might hit us on the head
by mistake when he wanted to assassinate our
corm anion, but under present circumstances we
are prepared to take the risk. Charles Reade s
story is now a thing of great age, and the long
white hair of antiquity hangs down the back of the
hoary drama as a living testimony that it has passe d
the allotted span of human effort, but it still retains
a good deal of its ancient fire, and under favour-
able circumstances is certain bo do profitable
business. These circumstances are present ab the
Royal in the shape of Messrs. H. H. Vincent and
Alfred Phillips, two gentlemen who are steadily
climbing the slippery ladder of public favour, Mr.
Sam Poole, a forgotten star whose name used to
be a great influence in the City of the Har-
bour, Messrs. Flemming and Marsh, and Miss
Isabel Morris ; and the efforts of this valu-
able crowd are supplemented by a collection of
scenery whose beauty would lend grace to a
suicide leper’s funeral, and whose lights and
shades would oast a sacred halo round the mule
and gild with a golden splendour the kookaburra
or the plain, everyday native bear. We could
drivel for hours about that soul-stirring panorama
of painted mountains and varnished rocks and dis-
tempered waterfalls, and we could hoot for ages
concerning the loveliness of the Australian dawn
as pictured on the stage at the Royal, but unhap-
pily timo is short, and we must suppress the full-
ness of our soul. A page cf closely-printed gush
musts therefore, b 3 taken as read,
* * * *
Sundry conspicuous excrescences have
lately been planed off the surface cf the " Ven-
detta,” and, in consequence, Barnes of New
York,” doesn’t lag quite so heavily through the
surging waters of public wrath as he used
to do In bis earlier days he steered uneasily,
like a long dog. ballasted with a stove on
his back, being fetched along by the tail,
but now he seems to be a shorter dog
weighted with a smaller stove, and he is being
fetched along a little less violently. Mr. Rignold,
however, still talks broken-Enghsh in order to
show that he is talking Italian, and he even
thinks in the same dialect, which suggests
to the agitated listener that Italian isn t a good
language to think in, or else Danella would
muse in a proper translation of his mother
tongue and leave the audience to understand that
it was a translation. Also the two sailors dis-
course in Whitechapel speech so as to explain
that they are also speaking the accents of modern
Rome, and this sort of thing strains the public
mind a good deal. Mr. Sidney’s brilliant edition
of Barnes, however, and Miss Emily litzroys
able acting as Marina help to keep things square,
and the “ Vendetta.” thus supported, isn t likely
to go down with a dull, dark flop for some time.
The scene on the seashore at Ajaccio should itself
be good for a week’s run.
* * * *
The musical public of Sydney, if that
fabled animal is still above ground, will be pleased
to learn that the Italian Opera Company has
partially tided over the crisis in its affairs, the
appeal made by Mrs. (ieorge Sinclair to the soul
of Botany Bay having been responded to by a
few generous patrons who kindly put up a subsidy
in aid of unappreciated talent. During the last
week “ Un Ballo in Maschera” has tramped on
fairy feet through ita little span at the
Opera House, and has received every kind
of justice a result which is partly due
to the artistes themselves and _ partly to
the sleepless Mr. Sinclair, who acts in a polyglot
capacity as manager, treasurer, limelight, scenery,
and sixteen other thiugs thrown in. On Wednes-
day night Miss Flora Graupner took a benefit in
“ Faust,” when Madame Lablaohe did her best to
boom the fortunes of the young Australian linger
by filling two thankless parts, as Siebel and Mar-
tha, and now “Faust” has also drifted away to
the internal land, where his soul loafs iu the even
for evermore, and “Maritana” trills in a foreign
tongue in his stead.
fjc 4c 4c 4fc
A great, bloodthirsty advertisement in the
daily press announces that Fireworks Pain will
commence a new season next Saturday in Phillip
Park, Sydney, Pompeii is to be destroyed over
again on this occasion, and a number of old Roman
scenes will be reproduced in a way which will be
gratifying to any remaining Roman who may
chance to come along.
* * # ♦
It is reported in Sydney that Mr. Aarons,
late of the Exchange, is about to fill an obvious
void and supply a long-felt want by erecting a
first-class music-hall, and that he has purchased a
large property in Park-street on which he will
plant the imposing structure in question.
* * * *
“Every Man for Hfmaelf,” a drama in
many dreadful acts, dragged its blood-bespattered
carcase across the stage of Melbourne Alexandra
last Saturday night. This work of destruction is
intimately connected with a tow-headed boy
named Dan, who says they can kill him if they
like, although for some inscrutable reason they
never do it when Dan is right there, and could be
made to d ie without a struggle. They prefer, instead,
to steal silently away and compass the wiping-
cut of that youth by some elaborate process which
involves a sinful waste of time, and leaves him
more alive than he was before. They set fire to a
shanty with a view to reducing Dan to a cinder,
but he emerges from the conflagration unsinged.
Then they tie him to a hulk in the moonlight and
wait for the rising waters to engulf him—but their
long-winded plot fails miserably. There are
hundreds of opportunities to arrest Dan’s career
with half a brick, and yet they fool about like
this. It makes everybody tired. In other
respects “ Every Man for Himself” is a liberally-
mounted representation of things that might
occur under certain given circumstances which
could never come to pass. In one act a
quantity of English villagers, headed by a nigger
minstrel, range themselves on either side of a
churchyard in order to strew flowers over a de-
jected bride, who presently comes sauntering down
from the village in solitary splendour and asks the
first old woman she sees to assist her through the
nuptial ceremony. She doesn’t appear to have a
relative or friend in the world on this jo.ful
occasion, neither does she want to get married at
all, and yet the village chucks paper roses at her
misery and the joy bells ring out such horrid dis-
cord that the bridegroem’s uncle dies in his bed
somewhere round the corner. Thereupon the in-
destructible boy Dan says “ stop those bells,” and
informs them that the defunct uncle has
left all his money to another man, after
which the whole bridal party, down to Dan
and the nigger minstrel, leave the peaceful
village and depart for South Africa, where
they all shoot one another something awful.
Sometimes they are dead and tome times they are
not, and there is no health in them. Mr. H.
Stoneham and Mr, W. E. Baker carry off the
honours of this play by the splendid persistency
with which they tear round on the kill. Miss
Lily Dampier stalks around South Africa in taste-
ful costume®, and drags three yards of bridal
train along a dusty village with much tragic in-
tensity ; also Mr. Boobhman’s rueful countenance
occasionally relaxes into a blood-curdling mule
Miss May Holt—Bland Holt’s sister—is the
authoress of this drama, and she plays Dan in a
style that harmonizes with her literary effort.
“ Every Man for Himself ” is alleged to have been
performed 800 times in England, and it is pro-
bably responsible for much of the distress and
suffering in that poor old country.
* * ♦ ♦
Mr. Frank Lincoln started his seat on at
Melbourne Athemeom on Saturday, and had
talked himielf into popular favour before the real
business of the evening was fairly under weigh.
The Bulletin has already recorded an honest
opinion that Frank Lincoln is an artesian well of
sparkling humour, beneath whose regenerating
influence the arid desert of our daily life becomes
a smiling plain whereon the famous Amnrrlkan
entertainer makes hay. His quality of funny -
ness is not strainej, and all the wild sweetness he
awakes is his own. There are points about Mr.
Lincoln’s unassisted performances which show
up, as it to happens, the pretentious weakness of
certain things done by popular members of ohe
Gaiely crowd. He has twice Fied Leslie’s power
to imitate wind-instruments and other animals,
whi'e his gift of singing no language at all
awakens contemptuous memories of Dauby's non-
semioal verse. A more many-sided humourist never
struck Australia, and afler a long series of rather
one-sided shows at the Athenseum the breezy ver-
satility of Frank Lincoln is as pleasant 8 s a pretty
girl’s pinch.
# * * #
“Sinbad the Sailor” holds out at Mel-
bourne Royal, but a certain sense of weariness has
come over the pantomime and it begins to look as
though it had nothing more to live for. Bland
Holt will probably take possession here on the
Kith. The Princess’s is also feeling the loss of
Miss Nellie Stewart rather acutely, notwithstand-
ir g that the house was crowded on Saturday by
an audience which strove to forget Sedition.
“ Sweet Lavender” has arrived at its latter end,
and for Saturday a new comedy, “Mamma,” is
promised at the Bijou. Meanwhile the Sdbon
acrobats remain in good demand at the Opera
House, and several other shows are a little sick.
The Victoria Hall goes decidedly slow, while the
Ooghills depart from St. George’s after Friday
night, when their long season breaks up with a
benefit.
* * * *
Mr. G. C. Miln, an artlat whom the
Shakespeare Society has recently taken to its
heaving bosom, appears as Humpy Richard at
Melbourne Opera House on the 16th. Mr Miln
is reported to have discovered a scenic artist with
an eloquent brush, and rumour states that this
young stranger has painted a Bosworth Field of
such fictitious distance that a Melbourne syndicate
will want it for cutting up into building allot-
ments on easy terms.
# * * *
The well-remembered voice of Henry
Braoy was heard at Melbourne Town Hall last
week, and seemed every bit as pure as it used to
be in the long ago. Mr. Bracy was giving his
services in aid of the Schiller-Christian concert,
a large and soulful entertainment which the
cunning band of B. S, Smythe guided to a
Glorious consummation. We have the Much
’ravelled’s assertion that the sale of tickets for
this concert was something beyond the dreams of
avarice, but if this is a slight enlargement of fact
it makes no difference.
## * #
A novelty at a recent benefit performance
in London was the reproduction by the phono-
graph of various songs sung in New York by Miss
Nellie Farren.
** * *
The broom which Jennie Lee uses when
she plays “ Jo ” —and poor Jennie is always play-
ing “ Jo ” of late years—is a celebrated bit of
theatrical property. It is 12 years old, and many
distinguished people have put their names on the
handle. But neither Jennie nor her broom are
what they used to be. No longer does she find
bouquets and golden gleanings in the dustpan of
popularity ; the most she can do now is to sweep
up the cold crusts of subsistence with the time-
worn besom of a long gone past.
** # #
One or two of the N.Z. papers have begun
to slate George Darrell and all his house, and his
ox, and his ass, and everything that is his, and
say that it is about time managers dropped
to the fact that the public is very tired.
** # *
Staging bushrangers in Australia is simply
a waste of powder, shot, and red paint. There's
no more novelty in it here than there is in paying
a butcher’s bill. The fact is, we’ve had too many
live Captain Swifts —and they’ve not been dead
long enough yet to have a welcome resurrection.
•♦ • *
Augustus Harris, manager of Drury Lane
Theatre, London, means to be a member of Par-
liament —a “ Liberal Unionist,” no doubt. George
Ooppin is the other actor in a parliament, and
when Harris does get in, George will still be sui
gtneris. This is rough on Harris, but a stern
regard for the truth makes us say it.
*# # *
“ Dorothy ’ has yielded close on £lOO,OOO.
♦# * •
The value of the property left by “ The
Great Vance ” was but £39 7s. sd.
** ♦ ♦
A whistling competition between aMurkan
girl and an English woman for £lOOO aside, has
been arranged.
*# # *
The author of “Box and Cox,” and in-
numerable plays, farces, &c, James Maddison
Morton, is a Charter House pensioner at 2s. per
day. Now that benefits are so popular some of
our leading Australian managers might give the
big London entrepreneurs a lesson in humanity.
The Campobello Grand Operatic Concert
Company are to arrive in Sydney per Alameda,
and reckon to knock the stuffing out of any other
show on earth. We note, with pleasure, that the
tenor rejoices in the name of Thrower. That’s
right, Charles ! Throw her from the chest!
A renowned “fasting nun” named Sacci
retired from the profession because he found he
wouldn’t be able to get anything to eat during his
last performance. The “ fast ” was under the
management of so many doctors that there was
always one glaring at Sued. They never gave
him a minute in which to put away the little
steak and potatoes that were waiting for him
under the floor or behind a sliding panel. After
about 36 hours Sued gave his appetite best and
bolted from the fasting chamber to the nearest
sausage shop. Such is professional fasting !
** * *
Now that Mias Flora Graupner has received
double encores nightly for her artistic rendering
of the page’s part in “Un Ballo,” we would like
to hear from the Sydney Daily Telegraph s
smart musical “critic,” who hoisted his sensitive
nose to an angle of 95 at the bare idea of a
16 line performer ” refusing to play a minor part
in “Carmen.” If Miss Graupner ever chooses to
descend to the level of opera-bouffe she will make
a fortune in no time, for she is already possessed
of all the necessary requirements ; but it is to he
hoped she will be able to keep to the legitimate.
As Amina in “ Sonnambula,” Miss Graupner
would be as near perfection as it is desirable to go.
## # *
Mr. Isaac Selby, the well-known Free-
thought lecturer, has publicly announced his con-
version to Christianity. This is a good move and
ought to pay a steady dividend. Hoping that Mr.
Selby will stay there, we beg to commend him to
the notice of the orthodox and to subscribe our-
selves his truly.
AN ILLUSION DISPELLED.
Tessioa Green was a chorus maid
In a popular Melbourne show ;
The neck and the arms she much displayed
Were white as the falling snow.
I was terribly “ gone ” on this fairest of fays,
And I spent all my money in buying bouquets,
Which nightly I used to throw.
Flossy de Jinks was the “ leading ” girl
(And a pretty young thing, as well),
When the delicate blossoms I loved to hurl
At Tessica’s tootsies fell,
Floss went for ’em straight, with theatrical glee,
Observing, “ Of course they’re intended for me ”
(My feelings no words could tell).
A sallow-faced man of rakish air,
He stopped me in the street
He stuck me up with a stony glare
(His breath was as whisk j neat),
And twirling his dyed moustache, he says,
“ What do you mean by throwing bouquets
At Flossy de Jiaks’s feet ?
“ I am her husband, sir,” he said
In an angry, tragical tone,
I explained that Tessica was the maid
I loved —and she alone.
That tragical person he shrieked, “ Odds life 1
Thou insultest, O ! villain, my father’s wife,
For I am her youngest son.”
There was a young actress, Jarbaau,
She could balance herself on one teau ;
She kicked o’er her head,
And the bald-heads all said :
“ By heving!!! An excellent sheau !!
CORRESPONDENCE
“P.T,” (Melbourne, Vic.): We have no recol-
lection of your letter “Constant Reader" (Brisbane):
To hand.... “ Real Radical ”: Thanks “G. Wilson ”:
We may use them “ C.G.” (West Coast, Tas.):
Not up to the mark “Topar” : Old yarns “ J.A.S.”
(Rewa, Fiji): Thanks, write often..R.C.M.”: Many
thanks. We hope to re-publish the article some day
“A.SM.”: The N.S.W. Foreign-trade party lost only
three seats in Sydney at the General Election, but in the
country they lost 39 seats “Wai Rimmarai”: Will
look it up and let you know.. .. “ A MacTanch " (Tor-
rington): Please send lull address. ..“J. Gordon Sawyer "
(Brisbane): A packet was, we are informed, sent to you
addressed to P.O. Brisbane “ Denseness ’’ (Sandhurst,
Vic): Thanks.... 1- G.H.” (Brisbane): Bother Webb’s
coat-o!-arms..' -, ‘E.R.” (Strathfleldsaye, Vic.): Yes, we
Should say that the writter of the letter is a remittance
man. Thanks “James O’Leary”: Write Mr. J. H.
Thompson, bookseller, George-street, Brisbane. If posted
direct from Sydney, price Is. 61 “Personal
Journalism,” no doubt, has its faults, but what about
first-personal journalism ? “ Dan. Numurkah ”: Pretty
steep, but we will see what we can do.. J.R.” (Tam-
worth): Snake perjury to hand “ Subscriber and Con-
stant Reader": The intention may have been innocent
enough “E.M.J." : A large percentage of the Sydney
Jews are Germans, who having made money, depart to
fatherland. Only orthodox Jews object to Sabbath work,
and how many orthodox Jews are there in South Sydney ?
....“Oyster Johnnie”: Handed to artist “F. P.
Handley” (South Yarra): We know nothing of the
syndicate you mention.H.B.” (Fenn Mount): Interest
all dead now...“M N.D.” : We reallydon’t rememberit...
“ W.K.”: Not up to scratch “ J.S." (Ascot Vale): Al.
Many thanks, but already noticed “A. Mellins” : The
Chinaman is our brother. The cheap blaokfellow is also
our brother—at least, they are your brothers, for you say
you are a Freetrader.... “ Beltane ” (Grafton): We should
not mind if they had gone to the Styx....“ J.K.” : Your
verses have a pretty jingle, but they lack “5nap.”......
“ Inquisitive New Chum ” ; “ Why do we refer to him as
‘Half-crown Brassey? ” Hasn’t he got a coronet,
and isn’t that half a crown? This is not bur
real reason, but it is good enough for y0u......
“E.A.”: “Stella” was Dean Swift’s name for Esther
Johnson, whom he married privately in 1716....“ J.R.” :
Your “ Agnostic Wail ”is real poetry. We hope soon to
have the pleasure of publishing it “Kai Loma”: An
old story “Murray Whaler” (Mildura): Matter re-
ceiving deep consideration “ Constant Reader " (Bris-
bane): Ha !ha 1 “ A.F.J.” (Moonbi): Calm yourself.
It is not Stella-..“ Baby Hitt” (Milton): Hail smiling
morn 1 You didn’t expect us to insert that sort of thing,
did you? “ Dave Gorman ” ; Sorry we can’t interfere
in the matter. If you were employed by them as their
agent, they, and not you, are responsible....“ James
Caldwell”: Many thanks....“ N.S.F.” (Broken Hill):
We have looked at your theatrical par with our cold,
cynical eye, and have resolved that the affair is too foolish
even to be gibed at.
“Shearer ” : The main thing to be agitated for
by the National Party all over Australia is the abolition
of plural-voting. A man should have only one vote, and
should be allowed to only vote in one constituency. You,
as a shearer, have a vote by reason of the fact that you
are a free man and a citizen of the country. The squatter
who employs you, however, not only has a vote in the
constituency in which you are employed—he has also,
perhaps, a dozen or twenty other votes in other con-
stituencies, simply because he owns property in those
constituencies. Each of his quarter-acre allotments has
as muoh say in controlling the destinies of Australia as
you, who live in a country where you are told all men are
equal. A quarter-acre a'lotment has as muoh say in
politics and law-making as you and your wife and your
family have. Tae street in which The Bulletin is printed
is a business streat made up of offlees. It is a street in
which there are no private houses—a street which, at
mid-day is full of lifa and contains thousands of
people, but which, when night has come and busi-
ness is dona, holds, with the exception of efflee-oare-
takera, hardly a living soul. In the morning a steamer-
full of people come up to Sydney from, say, Manly Beach,
and in that boat are v many men whose offices are in Pitt-
street. Each of those men has a vote for St, Leonards
(Manly is in that constituency) where his private house is
situated. He records that vote before he leaves Manly in
the morning. When he gets to town he votes for East
Sydney (his office is in East Sydney and he therefore has
a vote for East Sydney) very likely in the Foreign-trade in-
terest. Then he takes a cab to West Sydney, where he
has a quarter-acre allotment, and a vote, and by exercising
that vote he wipes out the voteef the Protectionist work-
man who has toiled all his life in West Sydney. His West
Sydney a'lotment counts for more than the working man’s
brains and manhood. Then he, the capitalist, goes to
South Sydney, where he has yet another allotment,
and again he makes an allotment vote. Then he
runs over to Balmain and his Balmain allotment
votes and crushes out a workman s vote. Then he
goes to Canterbury, where he has yet another allot-
ment with which he again effaces a vote given by man-
hood suffrage. He also has an allotment al Redfern and
again he votes ; on his hunk of land he digs a political
grave for the man whose only property is his toil. He
likewise has an allotment at Paddington, and as the Pad-
dington election is held on the same day as all the other
Sydney elections, he drives out and puts his 50 feet of land
in the scale against the opinion of John Smith, the
fool of a cabman who drives him there. And so on at
Newtown and elsewhere. We know men, not one but
dozens of men who, during the recent general election,
recorded votes lor twelve metropolitan and suburban
constituencies. What is the use of a working man’s vote ?
His master has twenty votes just as often as not. We,
the other day, met a pot-bellied man with a big gold chain
and a white waistcoat, who said: “ Damn it! I quite
forgot I had a vote lor Rsdfern 1” He had voted eleven
times during the general election, and he had so many
votes that, like Jimmy Tyson when asked to give a list of
his stations, he had forgotten where some of them were.
Nor is plural voting logical from the capitalistic standpoint.
The claim of supporters of the plural vote is that capital
should have its due power in the government of the country.
Now, if a man owns a corner block, with a hotel on it, in
Sydney, worth, say, £lOO,OOO, he has only one vote
for it. Another man, who is the nominal owner of 100
cheap allotments, mortgaged right up to the eyes, in 100
different constituencies, can exercise the franchise 100
times to the £lOO,OOO-man’s once. The N.Z. democracy,
under their grand old teacher, Sir George Grey, have
been fighting the One-Vote Question for many years,
and though they have not yet succeeded in abolishing
plural voting, have secured a gigantic advance towards it,
by obtaining legislation that causes all contests at a
general election to take place on the same day.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Is more 7 Vholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And is a
Pare Refreshing Beverage*
Be Careful you obtain Wolfe's.
Moot and Chandon's Champaonk Messrs. Most and
Cbandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
champagne-producers in the world. Their “ Dry-
Imperial ” 1884 vintage is the pure Juioe of selected
grapes from their own vineyards of 2500 acres in the
choicest districts of Franoe. It oan now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant in Australia. The Imperial
Crown is In each corner of lahe’. and 1884 branded on
cork and label.
Stork Cattle fob Sark.—looo male and 2QOO
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
Do you go fishing ? Eastway, Brothers, 411
George street, Stdnkt, have a splendid collec-
tion of all kinds of Tackle for hand, rod, or net
fishing. We have tackle suitable for all (each and
every one) fishing grounds in Australia.— Eastway
Bbothkrs, 411 George-street, Sydney.
Twenty Brimstone Sovs.
(A TALE OF METAPHUSICS AND MONEY.)
“And bo you’ve won ten ‘quid’ from
George Mo,.‘ton ?’ sail Padly Bourke to me, his
crony “ Yes,” I replied. “■ Toen ye’ll niver git
it; George is the worst mark in the township,
and, be the powers \ there are some rale bad ’una
here.” “ I guess I’ll get it out of him some way,”
I answered. Alas! X wish now that George
Morton had kept histhousand-times accursed gold !
Why ? Well, no doubt it seems strange to the
average reader to learn that a man wishes he
hadn't received payment of a debt in full. The
money was a tribute, go to speak, to my remark-
able skill at the time-honoured game pf euchre,
with certain modifications—that is to say, each
played with four j,okers—a most exciting array of
thumps when you hold them all in one hand, and
•when there are four players and sixteen jjOkers the
excitement amounts to. frenzy and something over.
• • •
George Morton eald, oftener than he aaid
his prayers, that he could V do ” anyone in the
township at euchre or Yankee-grab. Now I knew
ijhat his luck at Yankee-grab was too consistent
for either my profit or pleasure, and so I attacked
him at four-joker euchre and won his ten sove
reigns. He was short of cash and premised to
pay up within a week. I allowei him a clear
month; but, although he seemed to be always
flush of money, he didn’t make any attempt to
settle up. At the end of the month I asked him
for a settlement. He hadn’t it just then. I asked
him bi-weekly, but he never held it to the extent
of ten sovereigns. I increased the dose and asked
him daily to “part,” but he couldn’t raise
it. I asked him whenever we met, but he was
stone-broke and hadn’t ten pence. I arranged
a plan of campaign with abdut a dezen of my
pa:s. They were to ask him for the money when-
ever and wherever they met him, and to ask him
vociferously and with violence. Bill Smith asked
for it in church. Dave Linley requested an im-
mediate equaring-up in the local police court
during the trial of Yellow Charlie for sluice-rob-
bing. Peter Hansen attempted to collect it witli
fearful expressions when we were burying poor,
old, ill-fated Doctor Stridar. Dan’l Brown got
down George’s chimney at midnight, and was
nearly shot while trying to collect the outstanding
bill. Hickson chased him twenty miles on horse-
back, with a murderous glare in his eye and a
revolver in each hand, and when George’s horse
broke down he ranged up alongside him and said
that he had just dropped in while passing to
collect that £lO. Chinamen and aboriginals came
xound to inquire about the money. Horse-thieves
presented the bill—also policemen—but it was no
use. George’s excuses were always ready and
different. He had just sent £lO to his wife (he
didn’t) state which wife) and couldn’t spare enough
for me; he had lent an old friend £2O and was real
bard up; he had just lost two twenty-pun’notes
in the street (they were never found), and was
really stuck ; he had dropped a cheque for a large
amount and it had been eaten by a dog. “Let
ms shoot him,” said Peter Hansen, “and the tale
of his things will pay Johnnie and leave enough
lor a good, rousing wake.” The method would
have been good enough in the very, very early
days; but it wasn’t quite so safe then—in fact,
these days weren’t early enough.
* • *
At last George Morton’s vocabulary of
excuses actually petered out, and, as he was too
proud to commence at the beginning of a fresh
series, he simply said that he would leave me £2O in
his will. I aacapted the offer. I knew that “Far-
mer’s friend,” bluestone, kerosene, and tobacco-
juice (we hadn’t heard of fusel-oil in those days)
would foreclose on him before many years, while
I was fit for a full century. 1 was right. George
Morton died gloriously drunk, and George’s
drunks were of the complicated kind peculiar to
the buried and loud-smelling past. His last six
days were well described by Peter Hansen, who
said : “ Drunk—drunk—drunk—very drunk—
delirious —dead ! and probably still a bit coppery.”
Ten days before his death, he sent for me, and
said. “Johnnie, you have worried the life on 1 ) of
me” “No, George,” I softly interrupted,
“ the best brands of liquor did that ” but he
continued heedless of my biting sarcasm—“ Just
for ten blessed dashed sovereigns. When I die
I’ll come back and pay you ten quid for the debt
and ten quid for your gory trouble; that’s my
will; but mind the smell of the brimstone will
cling to them, and my curse is, ‘ May they never
leave you !’” “Let’s devoutly hope so, George,”
I said, and left, thinking of the good times I
could have with twenty brimstone-smelling
sovereigns, which, like Moses’s burning bush,
couldn’t be consumed. Why, hang it, they would
be almost as good as Big Clarke’s millions; X
might play four-joker euchre, nap, 100, poker, &c.,
for the rest of my life and be £2O “in ” at the
finish. I might but the prospect was too
vast for my intellect to cope with. We buried
George Morton in the libtla cemetery at the foot
of the hill and erected a tombstone adorned with
the following legend :
SACRED
- TO THE (hie) MEMORY OF
OFORCE (hie) MORTON,
WHO CROSSED THE RANGE
ON THE 17th (hie) AFRIT., 1886.
R. I. (hie) P.
• • •
Three months after George Morton’s death
a quiet stranger visited the township for change
of air. As I have before mentioned, I was good
at four-joker euchre and poker, but the unassum-
ing, delicate, gentlemanly stranger was better.
He cle«red us all out and left, after having im-
bibed health from the pure air. It didn’t take
much to brace up bis constitution—three short
days, three long nights, and about £2SJO I was
a broker. How I wished that I had had those
twenty sovereigns with the curse attached which
George Morton seemed to have forgotten in the
next world as well as in this. What a time I
would have given the health seeking stranger 1
When I went to bed on the night after the
stranger’s departure my pockets were empty.
When I woke (the smell of the brimstone roused
me) X put my hands in my trousers pockets (I had
rather an unconventional way of sleeping) and
found twenty sovereigns, with a polite note re-
questing me to stamp and receipt the document
which accompanied them. I stamped and receipted
iccordingly, and placed it in my strongbox. I
came back in ten minutes’ time, after exhibiting
the sovereigns, to show the note ‘from the other
world, but it was gene. I treated all the boys to
a high-class feed and a rushing river of dtink.
“Give us the best you can, boss, for £2O; I’ve
just cone c in for a fortune.” I tumbled into my
bed at 5 a.m. after the spree ; at B a.m. I rose to
take my usual walk befo e breakfast. “ Guess
George Morton’s sovs. are gone for goed,” I said,
as I walked about the room looking for my pants,
which had evidently been kindly taken off me,
with the result that I kept feeling my muscular
legs to make sure that the pants were not in their
accustomed place. At last I found them under
my pillow. As I lifted them something rattled.
“Something put in by the boys for a morning
nip,” 1 said, and turned out the pocket. “Five—
ten—fifteen, yes! by jingo! twenty sovereigns.”
* * *
I would have given another shivoo, bub |
felt that though the money might stand the strain
indefinitely my badly-used constitu'ion and the
publican’s pocket couldn’t. I bought a noble
horse for £29, and paid for it—actually paid for
it. Next day the horsedealer returned my money,
saying that he would sooner make me a present of
the horse, as I always had been a good friend to
him (the dealer). For an experiment I dropped
the sovereigns down the hotel well, hub they were
found in the bucket next morning and handed
over. I gave them to a chu ch building-fund, and
was much lauded for my generosity. Result the
first: My contribution set the diggers going, and
they gathered money enough to build a church
that wiped out all the other churches within a
NOT SURPRISING.
STOUT PARTY: “SEEMS TO ME THIS VESSEL HAS A DEVIL OF A LIST THIS
MORNING!”
hundred miles. Result the second: My sovs.
came back over night. Like fowls, they generally
came home to roost at night. Curiously enough,
there was a deficiency of r £2o in the building fund,
but, as the collectors were abovd suspicion, the
matter was allowed to drop. A little later I was
sued for “ ’sorlt an’ battery,” thought he buttered
one had tin best of the bout. You sbethe assaulted
person had insinuated that I was of the neuter
gender, so to speak, and the “sorlt an’ battery”
was a natural and, I think, legitimate consequence.
There was a second cunsequence, namely, a
lawyer's bill—£2o for defending me. He pulled
me through ; I paid him ; he shouted fizz. Next
morning my sovereigns were back in their accus-
tomed place, and a pettifogging lawyer (and liar)
was raising Cain in the township all through losing
£2O. The police were put on the jub, but they
never dropped across the thief, nor across the
badly-wanted money. In justice to them I will
admit that they got several good clues. I paid a
visit to a church baz ear and spent £l5 in purchas-
ing sundry articles. For £l5 I received two
gorgeous smoking-caps, two pairs of beautifully-
crewelled slippers (several sizes tco small for me)
a wonderful combination knife, and an elegant
tobacco-pouch—rather a good deal for the money,
as church bazaars and sacerdotal swindles go, tui
I always bad a taking way, and I took all these
things without any difficulty. With the remain-
ing £5 I plunged desperately into bazear-gambling
(lotteries, I should say), and won heaps of things,
most of which I returned for the good of the
church. I was the social lion of the bazrar that
night. In the morning I found my sovereigns
back as usual, and the church was left on the
verge of insolvency. I attended regularly for
months, and on every occasion popped a sovereign
unostentatiously into the plate. Why, I could
have taken a leading part in church matters, but I
wasn’t built that way.
• • •
The year 1887 came. I had had more fua
than would have filled 20 years, and for less money
than ever mortal had spent before. I got an attack
of emotional religion, and naturally felt it impera-
tively necessary that I should part with those
accursed coins—but how? Ah! that was the
question. How? Salvation would never be mine
while I held those infernal gold pieces. Smelt them ?
Yes, that was the idea—smelt them. I handed
them over to a Jeweller, and requested him to
make me a handsome ring and scarl-pin. I begged
to be allowed as a favour to witness the smelting
operation. I saw those sovs. dwindle away and
finally run into a molten mass. Next morning I
had twenty evil gold pieces as usual. In a week
I had two artistic gold trinkets, a ring and a
feirf-pin, as well. I was in despair. I tried to
rid myself of that soul-destroying money in hun-
dreds of ways. A book were too small to recount
the adventures of those sovereigns,
• * •
At la,3t a bright, happy thought came to
me in iny dreams. Give them to the Queen’s
Fund. I gave them in my quiet way; I was a
pattern loyalist. Just so ; ; but —“ God save the
Queen”—next morning found me still in actual
possess’on of those ungetridable (fine word, that))
coins. I contemplated suicide, but the thought
struck me : would those sovs. follow me ? Quite
likely. I began to grow morose and thin. At
last, however, one night I dreamed a dream
of an old, old, dear friend. Soft and sweet and
low, as in the olden time, his tenor seemed to
murmur into mine ear. He said, “ The National
Tribute ! my friend of the dear, dead days on
earth ; you can never join me till you cleanse
yourself of that soul-destroying gold. Suicide will
deprive me of the pleasure of your company fa
this glorious spirit land, and,the money will still
cling at a curse to you. Hand the sovs. over to
the National Tribute, my best beloved, and the
d d things will trouble you’never again.' 1 go,
remember 1” '
• • *
1 handed over the aova. on the 2.9jh
November, 1887, to the National Tribute. Next
morning, ah ! let me linger lovingly 1 over th'es6
lines—next morning I had the indescribable bliss
of finding my pockets-l-empty, George Norton’s
curse had indeed been a terrible' one ; but the
promoters of the “National Tribute” did good
service to one crying, degraded old pauper more
than they knew of,'and left him sav6d.‘
•' • •'
A few words, reader, and I have finished.
I made one mistake ; I should have kept those
sovs. till after the oelebratioi of the Centenary.
Had I done so, I could have had a last, never-to-
be-forgotten hunk of fun. The sea may yield up
its dead ; but my sovereigns have gone to a keep-
ing place, which like the insatiable sea, fjnnd
nought too small or too hard earned to swallow ;
but which, unlike the sea, will never disgorge its
prey.
* * *
I stand In the light of my own grave ; bat
beyond there is the great, glorious after-life of all
eternity for me, for have I, not put away my
brimstone sovs. past redemptiofa ? Yea, it is even so.
E. D. JOE.
The Brickbat.
[SLUNG BY “TITUS SALT.”]
About the calmest gentleman in the Aus.
tralian colonies resides at present in one cf the
secluded interior parts of Victoria. The other
day this person’s wife left for the Golden Shoah,
and it was her last wish that she should be interred
in a certain cemetery at Melbourne. Unhappily
the weeping husband didn’t know anybody at
Melbourne, but he procured a letter of introduc-
tion to a householder there who had never dope
him any harm, and sent it on along with, the
corpse, and in an accompanying note he requested
the Melbourne citizen to kindly keep the remains
on hand till the funeral was ready. The victim
was too much flabbergasted to assert himself ia
line, and for two whole days his house was oc-
cupied by an emblem of mortality that he tad
never seen before, at the end of which time a
bereaved husband whom he had never heard of
till then brought a hearse and other fixings along,
and looked surprised to find that the whole family
hadn’t put on crape for the occasion. The
mourners, of whom there wereaboutadcz?nanda
half, pervaded the establishment and wept in all
parts of the house, and a long clergyman read
several chapters from the Scriptuah with his eye
fixed coldly and sternly on the injured house-
holder, as if he had recognised him at the first
glance to be a miserable sinner and a wor-rum of
the dust, and wanted to wither him with his
avenging optic, and shrivel him right up. Then
the procession rose to depart, the bereaved husband
requesting the enraged but smothered host to bear a
hand with the coffin, and the parson stopping be-
hind for a moment to button-hole the same patient
sufferer, and urge him to consider this here solemn
occasion in all its bearings, and repent, and come
round to Bethsaidy Chapel next Sunday with a
broken and a contrite heart, and j ine in supplica-
tion with the ’umble fleck there assembled. He
added a few remarks about ninety and-nine sheep
which went astray in the wilderness, and his be-
wildered auditor feebly remarked that he s’posed
it was owing to the drought. Then the parson ex-
tended a long, damp hand, like a flat-fish broken
loose, and embraced him two or three times, and
bade him keep his heye on the narrow way, and
shun the world,, the flesh, and the devil, and
finally he fell over the dog, and disappeared
down the steps. When he seemed to ha fairly
gone, the nominal owner of the premises
sat down to get his second wind, and
ask himself, if the world was still turning round on
its axis, but before he could fully collect his
thoughts the shepherd came back to ask him if he
would not esteem it a blessed privilege to follow
the remains of the departed sister to their last
resting-place. He had already, the man of prayes
pointed out, been thought worthy to receive and
commune with the dust of that chosen wessel, and
if he would jine in the plentiful outpouring of
the spirit which would hensue at the sepulchre
his presence there would arouse exceeding great
joy. But the man who had afforded storage room
for the dust of the chosen wessel replied that it
was too hot for such exertion, and the shepherd
regarded him with a grief-stricken aspect for a few
seconds and then murmured something about the
lusts of the flesh and shambled hopelessly down
the street.
0 0 0
About the largest Oalnaman ever seen—
also the dirtiest and the most slipshod— created a
subdued commotion a little while ago at a hamlet
on the other side of Forbes—the side that looks
towards the empty land of the West. The gritty
Buddhist struck the district about dusk on a cer-
tain Tuesday, and announced himself at the Hard
T«ck Hotel as Dr. On Ijj.ee, from Sydney—a state-
ment which was glaringly untrue on the face of sit,
for his towzled horse-head and orphan-jackass
c .untenanqe would have scared away every sufferer
whose soul was not built of railway iron, and,
besides, the bogus doctor had a way. of shuffling
and clumping and, flounderirg with his coal-
punt-shaped feet which would have driven
any, pa'ient to., lunacy and death in less than
two hours. Also he was evidently in low.
circumstances, for his, head was wrapped in the
dish-cloth which Noah used to mop up the ark
with, and he had two left boots on and no right
one. His aspect was partly jaunty and mostly
slinking, lilt,? a kidded dog in high spirits down a*
drain, and he deposited at the bar a card the sir#
of,, a coal-sack, which set forth'.that he was “pre-
pare to akpep and cure all things in any person
Which receive or contain any shape of sulfur as.
kpown or not understood allee same.” Most of
the boys took, an interest ip this card when.,
dropped in that evening, and at last
they resolved to ppt up a little obscure,
game on the bogus Chinaman. Accordingly;.,
at midnight, when the Chinese healer was dream-
ing of home and of, the mother whom., he 1 1 ad.
quitted tpat he might catchee him licee on a bar'
birous strand, ho,.was, hapled out of. bed by IfSii
shrieking bushmep who clamoured wildly for him
to come and see a patie.nt and. save his life, andu
then they rushed hipa into a, back room, of the.
hotel where a man was.wajlqwingiq mortal agony.
He had fallen oCf a horse and been kicked and sat:-
down upon by the unfortunate animal, and his,
life hung by a hair w,hich warworn half-way',
through at the middle, and, was also giving way
at each end. The shrieks of. the sufferer were-
awful, and his movement! wer,e so wildand erratic,
that planted his. foot eight times on lift
doctor’s ear in the course of. the examina-
tion, and when the Ch.qamau endeavoured),
to inspect his wounds with,, a candle he
drove the melpjed grease into the eye of that:..,
alarmed physician, an£ made him wail inconcert.
Ultimately, however, it was pronounced,that the-
patient was mortally injured in eight places and 1
that every one pf hi? vital?) had been separately
stamped upon; also, that the only thing that could'
cure him was a certain precious and scarce herb,
valued at £lO an ounce, of which the Chinaman,
alone men on earth, knew the secret. Then
the patient tat up and ordered half a hundred-
weight of that herb right off, and if the doctor had*
another herb at £2O an ounce he would take
B(Vjb of it also, and unshaved, man in ham
a shirt and one sock came nobly forward and)
went security for the bill#; and another unshaven
man, who bad got up so hurriedly that he had
nothing on at all except an overcoat, took tha
Chinaman aside, and told him in strict confidence
that the man with the sock was a millionaire
whose name was good.for tons of the most ex P B ?i'
sive herb on earth or off it either. On the strength
of these representations a large barrowload on
weeds was supplied by the Chow pbysicj»*?
with instructions that they should be boiled
and the water thrown at the patient who
would immediately fall into a deep sleep
awake convalescent—but by this time the
sufferer had,got tired of howling in sham anguish
and he rose and went out for a walk, leaving tho-
crowd to settle with the doctor, which they offend
to do by unstamped bill at 3(1 months, without
security, provided the healer would shout. A»
latest a very large Chow was going round in &
frantic endeavour to collect his fee with a slink-pot,
and was succeeding worse than usual in the effort.


For civility, comfort, and all the luxuries
of a really first-class establishment, the Grand
Hotel, Wynyard-square, canrot be surpassed. It
is supplied with splendid billiard-rooms, elegant
suites of apartments, and unrivalled liquors, and
is fitted up with every appliance invented by
modern civilisation to make life pleasant. The
cuisine is second to none in Sydney, and no effort
is spared to make the patrons of the Grand Hote]
thoroughly oomfortabe.
“ A little American lisp B iters saves big doctor’s bills
and long sickness *’
Stork Cattle fob Salk. —1000 male »nd 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Forth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 90 Bathurst street, Sydney.
Dry Imperial Champagne Messrs. Moot and Chandon
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro-
ducers in the world. Their “DRY IMPERIAL” 1884
vintage is the pure juice of selected grapes from their own
vineyards of 2600 acres in the choicest districts in France.
The Imperial Crown is in each corner of label, and 1884
branded on cork and label.
JOHN M'EWAN & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers dt Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
IS page Country Properties, Farms, Gracing
Properties, &0., ho.
86-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, VUlif,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, Ao.
Maui List •( Bulauui fw Sals luisd Mnllr *
All Lists posted Free os applleatlos.
Personal Items.
Lady Parkes Is 36 years of age.
Mrs. Lang, the widow of the lata Dr. John
Dunmore Lang, is still alive and hearty.
John Copa Garnett, one of Victoria’s
oldest journalists, has written his last “ copy.”
Charley Barley, the first man to issue
paper money in N.Z., died recently in Melbourne.
Mr. F. W. Glbsoo, the new acting N. S W.
District Court Judge, was admitted to the Bar in
li 82,
Dion Boncicanlt, senr., was born In Dublin
on Boxing Day, 1822, and is consequently 67 at
the present time.
Sir Hercules II )Haeon intends Battling In
New Zealand when bis term of office expires, Ha
is a big land-owner there.
The wife of the Governor-General of
Canada refused to recognise Mrs. daring
a recent visit paid by the latter to Toronto.
Thadeus O’Kane now fills up the peaceful
columns of the Northern Miner with corrections
of the grammatical errors of his reptile contem-
porary.
Mr. Justice Webb, of Victoria, has gone
to E agland in search of health. He had pre-
viously been looking for it in vain on the Parra-
matta River.
It is now definitely settled that Mrs. Ward,
the now famous authoress of “ Robert Elsmere,”
is a native of Hobart, Tasmania, where she was
born in 1851.
Sir Henry Wrenfordsley, the “ journey-
man judge,” having completed his term in Vic-
toria, has resumed practice in Sydcey, and been
made a Q O.
Sambourne, the Punch caricaturist, ab
hors the artistic affectation of long hair and velvet
cowl, and seeks to live up to a horsey ideal in the
matter of raiment.
Sir William McArthur, who was com-
mercially connected with Australia, is to have as
a monument to his memory a Wesleyan chapel at
Bayswater, London.
Mr. Whittingdale Johnston, SM , cf
Sydney, has officially decided that no man is to
be considered drunk if he can find his way home.
Think you, Johnston.
Charles Studd, the English gentlemen
cricketer, who, after visiting Australia, joined the
Salvationists, is beating the big drum at a
Chinese station of the Army.
A London exchange tells a correspondent
that there is no cure for baldness, and in preo!
points to Tummy’s head, which has had a small
fortune lavished on its desert hair.
Butler, whose late frauds In the Registrar-
General’s office, Victoria, have caused so much
trouble, is a nephew o! the “ historical ” Larry
Bourke, formerly member for Kilmore.
The new Earl of Devon has been thrice
bankrupt. His estates yield £30,003 yearly,
but the mortgages on them amount to nearly
£900,000, and the gentle usurer sccopeth ye poole.
When Lord Ennismore was recently lying
ill of typhoid fever at Victoria, British Columbia,
Sir Andrew Clarke, M.D., of London, was con-
sulted by cabD, the consultation lasting three
hours,
A statue of England’s greatest navigator,
erected in London by the quacks of tbe Imperial
Institute who make a living by affecting to take
an interest in “orah kiwlinies,” bears the legend
“ Captain Cooke !”
Judge-ln-Bankruptcy Doff el closes his
eyes when he gives his decision?. If you want to
look very superior, just close your eyes, purse your
lips, and tilt up your chin. Such a lot of old
ladies know this trick in Sydney.
We are now told that when the late Lady
Brassey was in these beastly kawlinies she. in
conversation, invariably used the form of “Your
Excellency Lady Carington” or “Your Excel-
lency Lady Loch,” as the case might be.
The author of those pleasant books,
“Portia,” “Paylffs,” “Molly Biwn,” and others is
the wife of a wealthy London lawyer, and sister of
the late “Harold Gray,” whose contributions to
The Bulletin will be long remembered.
“ It Is about time,” remarks the European
Mail, “that the colonies thought of choosing
their bishops from the ranks of their own clergy,
instead of getting bishops from England, who are
—and if not they, their wives—continually home-
iok.”
According to the terms of Mr. John
Halfey’s will the gifted Winter wss to have three
months in which to decide whether he would take
over his late partner’s share (four-sevenths) in the
Melbourne Herald or leave it to be otherwise
disposed of.
Henniker Heaton’s application for anew
trial in the suit brought against him by the
Sydney D.T. proprietors to recover certain news-
paper-files, or their value, has been refused. This
paltry dispute will cost Henniker £5OO or £6OO in
costs, but it won’t hurt his reputation.
The htte noir of royalty ia the necessity
that exists for their presence at inaugural cere-
monies and the like. One of Tummy's daughters
is said to have remarked ihe other day—“ How
happy royalty must have been in the olden days
when they had nothing to open and shut, except
their mouths!”
Sir John E. Gorst, Political Secretary for
India, is in New Zealand just now. Gorst was a
magistrate in the Upper Waikato at the time of
the last Maori war, and conducted the Maori
newspaper, the office of which was looted by Rewi
when Gorst published an article hostile to the
King movement.
The taken-In and done fur Boston Globe
maunders about Douglas Sladen as a “ handsome
Englishman, about 32 years old, with black,
poetic hair and eyes ” Poetic hair, by thunder !
Why doesn’t the old crippled ass of a paper point
out that he has literary feet, and a calm, self-
posiessul backbone, a|ad distinctly picui legs?
Mr. H. E. Kater, one cf tbe newly-
appointed members of the N.S W. Legislative
Council, commenced life as a clerk in the A. J.S.
Bink, and during his early financial career was
stuck up by the bushrangers Foley and Lowry at
Cherry Tree Hill on the Mudgee (N.S.W.) Road,
and robbtd of £6OOO in notes which he had charge
of at the time.
A certain well-known Australian politician
particularly delights in stocking his vast interior
with eggs and sherry. On a recent (ccasionhe
strolled into his favourite cafe and alarmed the
other drinkers and feeders with his repeated calls
fer the same refreshment. Before he left he
successfully battled with no less than eleven
amalgamated eggs and sherry
Just as a correspondent of The Bulletin
predicted last week, the N Z Maori scare has
ended in a fizzle. A descendant of Brian Boroo,
clad in blue, presented Te Kooti with a little
piece of blue paper, the ex rebel proceeded to
Auckland and consulted his so’icitor, and an apop-
lectic J P. hfard the case and bound over the old
insurrectionist in a small sum not to insurrect for
six months, ju«t as if he was a comrrou white
drunk. Te Kooti, by the way, should be pro-
nounced Te Kon war-ti, it being the Maori
equivalent for “The Court.”
George Linsell, the well known mining
millionaire, first eirned a livelihood in Australia
ai a peripatetic vendor of toap at Sandhurst,
where he now exclusively owns a dez n or so rich
gold m’nes. Lanse'l's mines are distinguished
from others by having conical shaped tops on
their stacks, or chimneys—and a lot of gold
down below. Like most others who have
persistently crawled over the steep, rugged
hill of adversity, his fist closed firmly when he
clutched the prize. However, he has a cheerful
custom of presenting to a favoured infant niece as
much ia gold as her hands can hold every birth-
day.
When Te Kooti escaped frem the Chat-
hams he gave the crew of the Rifleman the choice
of working the schooner to Poverty Bay
or suffering instant tomahawking. It is need-
less to say they chose the former alternative, and
while beating out against a strong westerly wind,
Te Kooti himself took charge of the deck and
ordered his men to throw overboard a poor old
relative as a propitiatory offering to Tancaroa
(Neptune), Strange to say, as soon as this Jonah
was cast overboard, the wind, hitherto adverse,
suddenly veered to the right quarter, and enabled
the Hauhau fanatics to land at their destination
and proceed to chop up the pakeha.
Mr Braddon, the new Agent-General r o:
Tasmania, is sail to be the very image of H M.
StarLy ; indeed, at a recent meeting of the Royal
Colonial Institute in London, a friend o’ Stanley s
mistook him for the explorer. He slapped
Braddon on the back and said, “Hullo! when
did you come frem the Congo “I’m not from
Congo, 1 ’ said the astonished B ; “I hail from
Hobart.” “Oh! that’s on the Zanzibar side, I
suppose? ’ —and then poor Braddon had to labo-
riously explain that he was not Stanley, that he
was not even related to Stanley, that he was the
Agent General for Tasmania (which wasn’t in
Atrica at all), and that demine, sir—a man who
attended a meeting of the Colonial Institute ought
to know where Hobart was.
One day cross ixaminer Paives wis
“ turning inside out ” a poor man who had already
undergone the same operation in a railway smash
and wanted compensation from the Government
Amongst his other ailments he sa d he had bad
dreams. “Ah, you have bad dreams? ’
What are they like, now? Do you ever
dream of me ? ” “I dreamt of you only
last night ! ” exclaimed the witness. “Oh, well,
that couldn’t be an unpleasant dream,” urged the
genial one, “Oh, it was very bad!” said the
witness; “I haven’t got over it yet,” “ CLrn’,
tell us all about it,” urged Mr. Purves. “ Well,
your Honor, and gentlemen of the jury,” said the
witness with great solemnity, and in a voice
shaken with nervous emotion, “I drtamb list
night that the learned counsel, Mr. Purves, came
to my bed-side covered all over with scales and
having a pair of ‘horns. I awoke and found my
attorney beside me.” “You may go down, sir,”
said Mr. Purves.
POLICTICAL POINTS
Jawbone Nalld denies that “ Jack ” Want
is a Freetrader.
The Sydney Freethinkers Intend building
a Hall of Anarchy.
Mr. Girland la the new president of the
N.S.W, Single-tax party.
Brunker appears to be Parkes’ first lieu-
tenant vice Burnsby Horns superseded.
The Victorian Premier has refused to
allow Scripture-readers ia the State schools.
)' Thera are but four barristers in tbe N.S.W.
Assembly : -Want, Raid, Edmunds and Fuller.
Thera is a possibility of Senator Blanche
K B.uce, a negro, being io eluded in the U.S.
Cabinet.
It Is said io Northern N.S.W. that a
coalition between Brunker and J. P. Abbott would
meet with big support.
The Increase of population in Western
Australia during last vear was 94. The total
population now is 42,157.
Sir Juliui Vogel has determined to remain
some time longer in England, and has resigned his
seat in the N Z House of Representatives.
Daring the last 10 years New South Wales
has imported goods to tihe amount of £170,000,0(0;
and has exported £D1,000,000 in goods and
'Mr**
BACK-BLOCK THEOLOGY
SUNDOWNER : “GIVE US A BIT O’ BACCY, BOSS?”
Rev GENTLEMAN: “MY GOOD MAN, HOW CAN YOU ASK ME FOR SUCH
THINGS. YOU KNOW THE HOLY APOSTLES DID NOT CARRY
TOBACCO WITH THEM.
SUNDOWNER : “NO, NEITHER DID THEY DRIVE ABOUT IN FLASH TRAPS
WITH NIGGERS BESIDE THEM AS SERVANTS.”
£15,000 030 in coin in a vain effort to pay for her
pui chases. Tae other £24,000,000 is still owing.
A Sydney paf or describes one of the props
of the late Freetrade Ministry as “a man who
cannot spell the lies he desires to publish.”
“ Loyaby ” must be waning In England.
The “National Musicd Nightmare” was vigor-
ously hissed at Drury-lane on Boxing Night.
When is the Parkes’ s‘atue to our first
gaoler, Governor Phillip, to be erected on Pinch-
gut ? Or is the idea interred in the Dead House ?
Will the Australian Grand Orange Lodge
get back that £5O which its members subscribed to
assist the Times in the attempt to prove Parnell a
murderer ?
All country constituencies should give
Payment of Members their moral support. It
has a tendency to increase the number of bona
fide country representatives.
Mr. Piayfalr, M.P., who is a butcher, In
his maiden speech in the N.S.W. Assembly, said
“ he could offer his opponents on the fiscal question
no quarter.” No hind-quarter ?
In N.S. Wales M.P.s are sworn in by
fellow-members appointed as a Commission. In
Victoria judges of the Supreme Court in full
judicial costume perform the office.
David Bachanan has given Speaker Young
a political certificate of good character. Now,
who has given a certificate of political good
character to Mr David Buchanan ?
Sydney D.T. says: “Mr. Young la a
tried rraa ia the position of N.S.W. Speaker.”
Mr. Young has been tried as Speaker by the
whole House and been found guilty.
Mr. W. H. Traill, f irmerly editor of The
Bulletin, made his maiden speech in the N.S.W.
Assembly last week and was well received by both
sides of the House. Mr. Traill has placed upon
the paper a resolution in favour of the One Man
One Vote principle—an announcement which was
loudly cheered.
Haynes’ piper recommends the dismissal
of all R.C.’s from the N S W. police and public
schools and the “nailing of a batten ” across the
door of every denominational school.
The Smith family la 1 sing strength In the
N S.W. Parliament. There are but three in the
present Assembly and all are Foreign traders.
Smith is a strictly Conservative name.
The London Times recently, In revlewit g
the Prince of Wales’ published speeches, went
into raptures over them as models of eloquence
and monuments of philosophic insight!
Some Queensland Chinese statistics :—l5
Chinamen committed matrimony. Of the brides
1 was a Queenslander, 1 a Victorian- 2 were Scotch
lassies, 3 were Bridgets and 8 were Englishwomen.
A London paper goes to the unnecessary
trouble of explaining that Lord Kintore, the new
Governor of S.A., is a staunch Conservative in
politics. Why, certainly ! His billet bewrayeth
him.
Jawbone Neild avks why it is that Id per
lb duty on can lies is Freetrade while par lb.
is Protection ? We really don’s know. Perhaps
the Pops gets the rxlra halfpenny. Inquire of
Uncle Abigail.
A daily paper says : “ Lord Kintore, the
new Governor of South Australia, was simply a
night-porter employed to wake up somnolent
lords when they were called upon to vote against
popular measures, ’
Having offended the R.C. Irish beyond all
recill or reparation by its “Ominout Silence”
article, the Eve vino News now endeavours to
sneak hick into their toleration by calling the ktj
Mr. Pigoot a “Titus Cite?.”
Central Australian (Bourke) points out
that th Q result of the N.S.W. election indicates
that a Foreign-trade policy increases the direc i
taxation in country districts ; while Protection
would have a tendency to decrease it.
The Times paid £5OOO (not £l5OO as was
first stated) for the forged Parnell “letters,’
besides a heap of money for other epistles which
were such palpable impositions that the verdant
journal never ventured to make use of them.
A gentleman named Chirks Yandeleur
Creagh, at present acting as Governor of British
North Borneo, has just issued a pr^clamatiin
entitling planters to whale such of their niggers
as are not Indian immigrants for “criminal breach
of contract” and other alleged offences.
D*vid Buchan an says that Parkes once
appointed 22 persons to the NS W. L r gislative
Council, and when he went bankrupt the name of
every one of them appeared on his schedule.
David’s statement is only partially correct. Several
—not all—of the nominees were creditors.
There is only one man in all the Austra-
lian Parliaments who can beat Dan. O’Connor,
M. P , of Sydney, in the use, or rather misuse, of
sesquipedalian words and the stringing together
of phrases which are as ponderous as they are
inappropriate; that man is Paddy Coglin, of South
Australia
A certain hardworking Civil servant writes
to Tbe Bulletin stating that though he has lived
in a Sidney suburb for nine years, and has duritg
that time been continuously on the electoral roll,
he has never yet had an opportunity of voting.
In a word, somebody else has impersonated him
every time.
Dutcau Gillies, Premier, will not give hla
old constituency a chance to throw him over at
the next Victorian election He intends to
arrange a “ walk-over ” for one of the Melbourne
suburbs, where nobody wants to ask awkward
questions, and egg throwing is regarded as bad
form, dcncherknow.
Mr Wise says that with the advent of a
N. W. Freetrade Ministry with Mr. Brunker as
Minister for Lands the Western squatters will get
justice There is not a single squat*age in West
Macquarie, the great majority of the electors being
tenant-farmers who did not want and would not
have Mr. B. R. Wise.
Io seems more than p obable that
“Frawncis ” Abigail, of “more popery than fiscal”
notoriety, and “ Janery ” Davies studied at the
same University. The folks who write under-
mining letters usually labour under a bad spell. Mr.
Pigott, for instance, gave himself complete ly away
over “ hesitancy ” and “ likelihood.”
It la cabled that the new Governor of S. A.,
the Earl of Kintore. made a strong anti-Irish
speech at a dinner in London last week ; he added
“ that he was going to assume the Governorship of
a loyal colony, and must necessarily eschew poli-
tics for the future.” After this, the Earl will be
welcomed to Australia as an enemy of the demo-
cracy.
While Ihe Proteciionlst and Young Aus-
tralia party sail under the National flag, the
N.S.W. Foreign-traders now call themselves
“Liberals,’ and have started on the work of
shunting Parkes from their leadership in favor r
of Brunker, auctioneer, a good looking mediooiity,
whose chief recommendation is that he is reputedly
honest.
Among the Fc reign-trade members in the
present N.S. Wales Assembly is one who ranks as
tbe prize drunkard of tbe colony, and, strangely
enough, this genbleimn owes his seat to the block
vote of the local temperance lodge, acting, it is
understood, on instructions from the central body.
He undertook in muddled accents to suppirt local
op —hie -tion without compensation, and as a
result he now drinks and hiccups in the Parlia-
mentary refreshment-room —a full-grown legislator
of New South Wales. His Protectionist opponent
was a a abstainer of long standing, but even this
fact did not prevent the organisation voting for
the chronic drunkvrd almost to a man. And yet
the Lccd Option League pretends that it is not a
political society. Yah! Let us shriek with
fiendish merriment and derisioa.


ţ
Perils o f the Deep.
DIVER DIB BS (sol): “A PRETTY JOB I SHALL HAVE WITH ALL THOSE CREATURES HANGING ABOUT!”


'J'/'f/fa er o? fo rf ? f
£q.cS,j /- Me £&/?€>-fae f o/f > <.T/o/>/-ytf~
Sf /PP£A - /A<? s£'s£/*?■ /S ?
aoU /A 6e/o<? *fo Co/nC To cTay u>ecC 6e/feo ee/> & /
Of) As /op jj 016 /?oSS/6$L Jy&'ff fay off CcpcC Op?
e 6 anr / ire_~ "
CAtF-AND-BREA < STBONE-pR|( 4 ADE will STANDMERE.
"//*//*/Say / fere.
va"•/ A‘W-r £*'** -fyf :
S/rJ.U,
uycl y& V on /o tye,
' /JA /30a,//ptf /OerscjQ - l<£ctyTosr}
%e_ //rnC- cJe.y& acc/- ZcL 7#
Srs/po yy yr/£/?cC ft/'Cst.OQ- CccJfct /ly
r)-d./effo7
. "Of •fa</S<aS. /
>v yu&s7sop / p oc<J cCo&S
er/? ~//6 ?
wpr
jßoMf
MU(3
OA/
is °K hp '
1
A
S ‘^
The Calf and Breast-bone Brigade.
Our artist is pleased to learn that an organization with the above cognomen is now one of the regular attractions of the Manly pier. You don’t see ha’f so much
of this kind of thing at St. Kilda.


■WKKT BOKOMIA, the New Ferfame. Mane*
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Meoistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. 63.,
55., and 10s. Tost free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONCMORE, 13S Bourke-st., East,
MKtBOIRKE.
Eastway Brothers, 411 George-street, Syd-
ney. —Ladies Wire Dress-Stands, for Draping
Dresses on. These Stands save time, trouble, and
money. Wire Flower-Stands, for holding pots in
halls, verandahs, gardens, &o. They are light and
strong, painted any colour. Fish, Fish.—Why be
without fish when yon can always have plenty by
having one of our traps. Just received ; A splendid
lot of Canary Cages.
llor*lord's Acid Phosphate.
ILL 'EFFECTS, OF TOBACCO
relieved by Its use.
Uniform a specialty ; quality, fit and comfort. Mudi-
man. "Mr Tailor.” 184 King street, Newtown.
Stork Cattle for Salk —lOOO male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED ÜBS.
SHE LEADING HOUSE
108
Pianos, Organs, BBhsSo,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special Attention Is called to the following
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS I
ÜBBEL and LEOHLEITER PIANOS
F. SOHAAF and 00. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURIOH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Plano ever
factored
Onr BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex
celled at £36.
BBTBY ORGANS. BSTBY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves 1 The Estef
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con*
slderably reduced their prices, In order that *
first-class Instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many Inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to maljj
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work 1
manshlp and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART Of
THE COLONIES
on their
AIBERAL. TIME PAYMENT SYSTEM.
IRC GEORGE STREET, two doors Isom P*®'
Society
Mr. John Murray—Heaven forgive him !
—is about to publish the Speeches and Addresses
of the Prince of Wales, delivered during the last
25 years ;
Of all the solemn farces enasted, the cere-
mony connected with the opining of Parliament is
probably the most absurd. It) is as slow as a
“stiff ” pedestrian, as dreary as one of “ intellec-
tual ” Barry’s prosy sermons, and as melancholy
as a funeral wail. Why there should be so much
unmeaning nonsense associated with the simple
act of letting loose the evil tongues of a lot of
politicians is beyond comprehension- Last week
witnessed the ordeal in NS W. There was a
gorgeous display of flunkeyism and cocked hatism,
and, consequently, of women. Caring to a, looking
decidedly Solomon Eagleish, was conveyed to the
scene in the State coach —a stuffy little box ar-
rangement which looks like a cross between a
meat-van and a mourning-coach. The horses
revelled in the “prancing of giddy ostentation.”
They evidently knew that they were out for a
show occasion—that they had to be lively by way
of contrast to the stern immobility, the stiff
poker-backedism of the solemn-visaged flunkeys
perched up at the back of the coach. The pon-
derous calves of those exquisitely-attired menials
were much admired, particularly by the spindle-
shanked—men, of course. A gushing damsel who
occupied a prominent position on the balcony was
heard to remark to her miserably attenuated male
companion; “Now, those are specimens of real
Englishmen, if you like ; just look at their beau u-
tiful legs.” She didn’t blush, either, which is
proof positive that she is in society. Those
ferocious warriors, the Lanceaha —eleven men with
five officers —formed an escort, and when
they manoeuvred in single file, Macquarie-
street was none too wide. It seemed oc-
casionally that they were under orders to
charge the houses so as to demonstrate the pene-
trating power of their cardboard lances. Really
if flunkey troopers are an indispensable adjunct
to a Governor’s turn-out there ought to be some
other qualification than credit at a livery-stable
and a fashionable tailor’s— She men ought to know
how to ride. There were other warriors of all
grades. Tnere was no gore, there were no goats
for the Soudan heroes to crack, no gaff, and thus
no glory. Inside the Council Chamber there was a
big display of bonnets and—Parkesthe patriarchal,
Hutchinson, Abigail, and Barber Ball being pre-
sent—a trace of beauty here and there. Lady
Oarington did not grace the scene —thus avoiding
a big social difficulty. His lordship drawled out
a meaningless speech, concluding with an expres-
sion of the hope “ that your deliberations and
decisions may be guided under Divine favour,”
and the show was over. Members of both Houses
at once proceeded to wrangle, and ever since
“under Divine favour” the two sides have been
engaged in slang-whang.
* * *
Lady Jennings, the wife of Sir Patiick
Jennings, died ia Sydney last week at the age of
42, of internal hemorrhage. The deceased lady
was a daughter of the late Mr. Shanahan, of Mar-
noon, Vic., one of the pioneer squatters of the
Wimmera, and was married at the age of 17. The
many friends of the gcod natured knight will
deeply regret his latest misfortune.
• * *
A bench of Ballarat beaks has decided that
a perambulator is not a necessity. Neither is a
baby for the matter of that.
« • •
Prince George of Wales, we read, has
grown a fair beard all round his royal face. Great
Burdett Smith ! it seems only the other day that
dear George was gambolling around Australia
with his flabby brother and a tame tutor attached.
And it doesn’t seem so much longer ago since we
saw him, dressed in knickerbockers, driving with
his ma in Hyde Park, on which occasion this
cheerful young cub clambered upon the back-seat
of the barouche and punched the coachman in the
middle Of his back, as a signal for that gilded
flunkey to turn and drive home. We were a
horrible young snob ourself at the time, and we
father envied that flunkey.
• •
The future Earl of Derby has married one
of the Duke of Manchester’s daughters. We
don’t know the bridegroom and we haVa never
seen the bride, but we did oc*e get a brief,
ecstatic glance at her papa, and have felt like a
sort of friend of the family ever since. It seems
that the young lady said “I will”in a dress of
the “richest simplicity,” and we feel persuaded
that she looked nice as usual.
o • •
The first prize In Messrs. Pears’ baanty
show is to be about £2OO, and the firm are thinking
of getting the president of the Royal Academy to
do the judging.
• * *
Daring the past year one Melbourne firm
sold £223 worth of perambulators. Mrrriage
isn’t much of a failure down South.
• • *
Obituary verses are at present all the rage
in Adelaide. The daily papers teem with metri-
cal expressions of affection and bereavement, and
although the majority of these effusions are of the
“He-is-gone-but not forgotten—He-is-not-with-us-
to day” description, others aiming at originality,
struggle wildly to convey the names, weights and
colours of the deceased ones, combined with a deli-
cate hint as to their general destination There is
method ia this, too, for distant friends are at once
informed of the cause of death, and also of the
supposed whereabouts of the departed, and the
announcement of to-day instead of chronicling the
bare fact that, on such a day, the beloved infant
of Mr. and Mrs. Blank was unfortunately shot
into space, has tacked on to it lines such as these ;
l i '
THE INSUFFERABLE BRITON.
AUSTRALIAN : “ EVER SEE SUCH FERNS-GRAND. ISN’T IT?”
BRITON: “SAW BETTER ONES THAN THOSE AT HOME.”
A .: “AT WHERE? WHEN I WAS AT HOME I NEVER SAW ANY.”
B. : “THEN YOU MISSED A TREAT, YOU DIDN’T GO TO THE KEW
BOTANICAL CARDENS.”
Lady Loch has announced that her Thurs-
day afternoon receptions will be resumed (D.V.)
when she returns from England.
* • •
Prince Henry of Battenberg, that elegant
piece of human waxwork, has been appointed
Governor of the Isle of Wight. With uninten-
tional humour, Fkiaro says that “the trades-
people of Ryde and Cowes are delighted to have
the son-in-law of the Sovereign and the husband
of a Princess to rule over them.”
• •
Some of the Melbourne councillors are
reported to be genuinely disgusted at the sinful
expenditure in connection with their Town Hall
portico. That monstrous and publicly incon-
venient job was recently completed amidst dis-
creet silence. No guzzling demonstration bailed
the removal of the scaffolding, no newspaper pars,
called attention to Marvellous Smellbourne’s latest
“ improvement,” and no distinguished citizen rose
up to express a fervent hope that the Prince of
Wales would soon walk under the portico, which
had been specially fixed up for him in case he ever
came. The whole business stank so badly—worse
even than the adjoining gutters—that no attempt
was made to give it a triumphant air. But now
an alderman has announced his intention to go
into details concerning this scandalous piece of
stonework, and we trust the worthy roan will not
be quietly “nobbled” by the Mayor, Duncan
Gillies, or his Excellency. Keep on believing,
brother.
• * •
The Victorian Government steamer “Lady
Loch ” (built and maintained for the particular
benefit of I )uncan Gillies and friends) has served a
useful purpose at last. The recherche craft oon-
veyed a private patty of picnickers from Melbourne
to Portarlington, and a member of the picnic gave
birth to a son en route . A meeting was imme-
diately convened to decide whether the infant
should be named after the Governor or the cap-
tain, but the question was adjourned for further
consideration. Why not christen the boy Job, in
honour of the boat ?
• •
(lovernor Loch was Eoletilnly banqueted
by the members of the Australian Club, Melb ,
last week. Proceedings were not reported, but it
is understood that the distinguished company
drank jbo the Queen and his Excellency with tears
in their eyes, and that the toast of “Unearned
Increment ” was received with violent enthu-
siasm. The loyalty of that banquet beggered
description.
♦ * *
The Melbourne Tramway and Omnibus
Company took nearly £lOO,OOO in excess of their
normal receipts during the Exhibition six months.
* * *
Thus the Pall Mall Gazette, referring
to the folly o! English noble families packing their
ne’er-do-wells eff to the kawlinies :
Lady M , a well-known figure io the streets of Mel-
bourne, is another case in point. She is the sister of a
charming peeress, whose portrait may be seen ia most of
the shop-windows where bishops and professional beauties
gaze vacantly at one another all day long. Lady M ,
herself the wreck of a once beautiful woman, receives a
quarterly remittance of £5O from England. Immediately
she gets the money the goes upon what the reporters of
(he Melbourne evening papers are wont to describe as “ a
howling tear.” In other words, eh? becomes boisterously
drunk, and makes a disgraceful exhibition of herself in
the streets. If her English relatives had a particle of
common-serse. they would send the money to some trust-
worthy person in Melbourne with instructions to disburse
it in accordance with the unfortunate woman's daily or
weekly need?.
• * *
We read that In the Dutch eastern pos-
sessions there are young men so eager to be
married that they write to their friends in Hol-
land to find them wives. The friend selects a
willing lady, conforming to the suggestions in the
letter. A photograph o! the chosen one is en-
closed in the reply, and after the lapse of a few
months a soiled left hand glove, with the power of
attorney, is received from the far-away bachelor.
“ The friend in Holland marries the selected bride
as a sort of legal deputy for the actual groom, and
the young wife departs in the next India mail
steamer to bring happiness to the lonely man in
the far east. The marriage is as binding as if the
bridegroom were present, and it is never re-
pudiated.” This is all very well so long as the
deputy husband does not go to sea with the bride.
* * •
Lord Lansdowne took with him to India
.‘)0 cases of old Scotch whisky.
* * •
A man appealing at Sydney Quarter
Sessions against a conviction under the Vagrant
Act said he was not aware that he associate 1 with
thieves. He associated with all sorts of people,
including members of Parliament. His apjoal
was upheld.
• • *
Algernon (sitting on sofa): “ Clara, this la
bliss!” (Kisses.) Clara (also on sofa): “ Algy,
this is heaven 1” (Kisses.) New parrot (in cage):
“Yah! This is h .’’
• • •
An American journalist discourses on
evening dress :
She was a queenly creature, and she eat at the front of
a box where the light fell on her with artistic effect of
illumination. She was visible to outsiders only as low
down as the waist. Her long, white, taper arms were
bared to the tope of her magnificent shoulders, where the
merest sections of ribbon separated them from her smooth
neok. She held a big white leather fan in front other
corsage and indolently operated it. From my point of
observation, in an opposite box, her bodice was hidden by
the fan, from behind which her lovely neok arose and her
arms extended. Not a scrap of fabric was in eight. She
sbruok me, most a’armiogly, as being altogether unclothed
and screening herself behind the plumes of the fan. Of
course I realised in an instant that it wasn’t so, because
two men sat close beside her, and if she had discovered
hbreelf ih such a plight before masculine ejes she would
have instantly huddled teiSslf down ia a heap and yelled
like almighty. Nevertheless, es the slowly-moved fan
was gradually lowered and it did not disclose the begin-
nings of raiment, I felt a return of my first absurd con-
alternation. Lower and lower went the fan. The bits of
ribbons over the shoulders developed into small sprays of
flowers, but still no cloth marked the bbuntfary cf nudity.
Tbs bosom was fair to see, but, hail Columbia ! where was
its public exposition to end ? Suddenly the girl dropped
the fan into her lap. 1 was all ready to yell if my fears
came true. I felt my eyes stare, and I am sure that 1
turned pale. But it was all right, after all. She had rn
a dress. It began across her breast at a low level, but it
was there. The fan had given me an awful scare, theugb,
a * «
There waa exceeding joy In the camp of
the Adelaide Musical Association when Mr.
“Ruth ” Oowen consented to conduct their pro-
duction of the “ Sleeping Beauty ” purely out of
affection for his old friend their director, ard
great were the preparations made for the event.
A “welcome” cummittee was appointed, the Ex-
hibition building engaged, and tickets at a high
price were bought up by the “ culchawed ” aristo-
cracy of the Australian Mecca. All arrangements
were completed, a financial success was ensured,
and addresses for presentation to the great little
man acknowledging in terms of admiration his
kindness, condescension and liberality were duly
prepared, when lo ! a letter was received from the
musical genius stating that he had reconsidered
his decision and that unless they permitted him to
annex one-third cf the concert-prcceeds he would
positively be unable to appear. A man in the
Holy City thus strikes the lyre for The Bulle-
tin
Dolly Tester, the music-hall girl who mar-
ried the Marquis of Ailesbury before that foul-
mouthed nobleman was “ warned off ” the Eng-
lish turf, has eloped with another rich racing man,
Mr. Baird, to wit. Dolly did her best to get the
Marquis into sassiety ways, but his langwidge con-
tinued to be so orful that the poor girl had to go
off with her new mash, on the condition that he
endowed her with the same handsome “ settle-
ment ”as the other fellow had done. Dolly, there-
fore, lost nothing by the exchange, not even her
title. She will remain a peeress of the realm be-
cause her lawful husband isn’t in a position to get
a divorce if he wanted to, and he probably doesn’t
care a rap about the matter, anyhow. Dolly can
remain Marchioness of Ailesbury until she dies,
even if the Marquis expires and she should marry
a plain mister. By her rash conduct, however,
Dolly has forfeited all hopes of ever kissing the
Queen’s hand, bub she will endeavour to bear up
notwithstanding.
• • •
Tasmania has been suffering from a fear-
ful visitation of nature in the shape of a certain
well-advertised litterateur , whose greatness fell
Pour scent upon our classic brow—
The smelling bottle, quick !
We’re feeling somewhat better now,
Though still a little sick ;
We stood those “Leaves” in which our Sov.
Told wishy-washy tales—
We cannot stand the Speeches of
Her Heir-Apparent, Wales.
For twenty-five long, weary years
An orator he’s been,
Descanting on the House of Peers,
Or else upon the Queen ;
Those speeches have been telegraphed
To distant hills and dales,
While mocking “operators ” laughed
At Tammy, Prince of Wales.
We ve seen them in the mouldy Times
(Poor victim of a sell),
Occasionally in our rhymes
We gave those speeches Sheol;
We hoped to see them nevermore—
The English language fails
To tell our utter loathing for
The platitudes of Wales.
And now a toady would collect
The twaddle Tummy spoke
Within a book, O ! we object
To such a cruel joke.
He’ll print those Speeches all the same,
For grovel much prevails—
Then why not give the fellow’s name
Who urote ’em out for Wales ?
He sat on the nest of a hornet,
And the hornet was there at his post.
Our Johnny now plays on the cornet
In the band of the heavenly host.
To Mr. COWEN
Tho’ Melbourne may Certainly claim you,
By right of the money she’s spent;
And Sydney her Cowen may name you,
We value their claims not a cent.
We smiled when upon them in sorrow
The dust from your feet you had cast,
We knew you were ours on the morrow !
We had you the last.
For months they had basked in the sunlight
That beamed in your radiant smile.
Your presence was surely the one light
That raised them from earth for a while,
And when that light sank in its socket
The shadows came following fast,
And leaving them lighter in pocket :
We had you the last.
For months in their midst you were dwelling,
You granted us only a day,
Our bosoms with gratitude swelling
Acknowledge that fact when we pray.
The tiger, with appetite whetted,
Sniffs blood on each wavering blast—
We knew this and silently fretted :
We had you the last.
And yet when we heard you’d consented
Your services freely to lend,
Our hearts from their judgment relented
And thanks we bestowed without end.
Our faith in yon sadly is shaken,
Your “ freedom ” is certainly vast.
For a third of the proceeds you’ve taken—
You had us the last.
Adelaide, S A.


COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
u-NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES (WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOM OF THE
lNn»/ AID bein ° RKT URNED a« an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in the Kvent of Survival. FULL PARTICIPATION
being
niTRPLTTR
RimAm la *ll kb* Coinvm *«H In kb* TTwiTan KTwanon
upon the inhabitants of that happy isle with a
sickening thud. From private information we
learn that the great man was regarded as an
especial calamity in Launceston, and that he
raged wioh such uncommon fury at the Brisbane
Hotel that the waiters were drawing lots to decide
who should do something when he arrested the
conspiracy by calling for his bill. Brevious to
this joyful event he had casually atmunced that
he was writing a great work on hotels, so the staff
did their best to get a go<xl “ notice ” of the
celerity with which they supplied the author with
his bill when he called for id. The document was
forthcoming like a flash of lightning, but instead
of complimenting the manager the great man be-
came quite nasty and spoke scornfully about the
bill being there so soon. Then the bois rose in
his wrath and told his distinguished customer
that he had made himself a nuisance, and besought
him earnestly never to return. His Nibbs left
Launceston in a crushed condition, and the whole
town said bad words as they watched his Vessel
disappear over the horizon.
* * ®
A giddy young thing advertises to the
following effect in the Noo/Ie :
MATRIMONY.— Steady Bachelor, 43, wishes lo cor-
respond with a domesticated Christian Woman,
with capital, to help in taking good poultry-farm or
business. This is genuine. AC.B, Post-office,
Gaorge-st. N.
The quantity of Christianity required, like that of
capital, is not stipulated, but it may be presumed
that the “woman” whose capital is large and
whose Christianity is small, will be preferred to
one whose religion completely obscures her banking
account,
9 * •
Parkea’s Gal was asked to attend the
wedding but didn’t attend. This is an unalloyed
goak !
D • 9 9
Dear Bulletin, —I think that the follow-
ing will show how aristocratic names are formed,
for exactly thus does Smith become Smyth. Hera
is an ad. from The Australasian :
South Australia. Crown Lands Offloa, Adelaide, 10th
December, 1888. £lOO bonus for invention of a stone and
stump gathering machine. . . JENKIN COLES, Com-
missioner of Crown Lands.
Jenkin is good enough for picking up sticks. But
the next ad. is :
South Australia Crown Lands Office, Adelaide, 10Ih
December, .1888, Teacher of Chemistry and Natural
Science. . . . Applications, with testimonials, etc.
JENKYN COLES, Commissioner of Crown Lands.
So we see that when wa want a pwofessah we are
Jenkyn with a “y.”—Yours, Skoti OoeyncM,
* * *
They say that the new Australian perfume,
“Sweet Boronia,” is to be dropped into the
nostrils of London sassiety by Lady Loch, who
has ordered a few hogsheads, or puncheons, to
take “ home ” with her. She will smell nice.
• * »
The King of the Belgians has an unsatisfied
longing to visit Africa, but hi» Ministers, having
regard, no doubt, to* the little entanglements that
royalty falls into in “ furren parts,” sternly say
that they pay him for being king, and that in the
present overcrowded state of the king market,
monarehs should adhere strictly to business. Of
course, there is no 1 such thing as trades-unionism
amongst kings, or Leopold could put his finger to
hi & nose and go off to the Congo in spite of his
Ministers, knowing full well that if any blackleg-
emperor “ ratted ” and took his billet the
grand secretary of the United Society of Ruling
Monarehs would “call out” all the other kings,
organise a vast monarchial strike, and leave the
busted governments of Europe tottering on the
verge of chaos. But unfortunately no such
organisation exists, so Leopold chafes in his
bondage but sticks to his billet with the adhesive-
ness of a non society tradesman. To make life
bearable, however, and to remind him of his
beloved Africa, he has had a huge dead wall in
his palace frescoed with a map of the “ dark con-
tinent,” the mountains being in relief and the
lakes and rivers in glass mosaic, and this monarch
who can’t go out on strike spends the day wonder-
ing what in thunder has come over Stanley, and
arranging the details of a new order of knight-
hood, called the Star of Africa, with which to
decorate him when he turns up.
LAYS OF LOVE: BY A CASUAL BARD.
No. III.
WAITING.
My lady sleeps ! the languid air
Doth swoon about her form; and truly
It would not “ swoon ” were she not there,
Or if she did not use Patchouli.
Why closed she her tired eye ?
Tam the only cause of it,
I kept her waiting, that is why ;
And do I grieve ? No, not a bit.
I promised her to come at night,
But not with comrades brave and true ;
It’s true I asked her if I might,
But she said, “ No, dear ! only you.”
Let noue the happy moments share,
“ When we are seated side by side.”
Well i anyone, for all I care,
May carry off my blooming bride.
“ Come early,” said my ancient pet,
We’ll talk a lot, and spoon a lot.”'
A tempting programme, true ! but yet
I somehow thought I’d rather not.
And so in ease and idleness
T tarried where my comrades are.
And quaffed the tawny B and S,
And lit the lingering long cigar.
mth have I as if she weeps,
My ancient love who loves me so.
u'AJ™ mid the lapse of time she sleeps.
Ah no ! she wakes ! , . . I’d better go.
Max O’Rell, in fils new book about
o, m , er^cl > says that what struck him most in the
faces Wa3 t^l6 <lo * Ja * a ' 3serice stupid-looking
That famous old Sydney hostelrle, the
Jjrand Hotel, Wynyard Square, has changed
anas and is now under the management of Mr.
’. Hust, a name synonymus with a first-class
mne, the best of liquors, good attendance, and
other essential that goes to make a first-
M’Cracken’a brewery, Melb., turned out
during the last six months 33,009 hogsheads of
beer.
The London Automatic Box Company have
patented another invention You put a penny
into the slot, and your photo, B at once returned
to yon.
An exasperating American editor being
threatened with tar and feathers said in his next
issue : “Toe people of this town may break into
somebody’s henroost and steal the feathers, but
we know that they are too stingy to buy the tar.”
Sydney Daily in a recent
issue, “ regretted that none of our youths evinced
any desire to develope into statesmen ” —and yet
in the very same issae it reported the conviction
of a ten year-old boy for stealing a bunch of
bananas and attempting to stab a policeman !
Mrs. Muldooa : “Amh, Biidy, an’ are
yez on callin’ tur-r-ms wid our new neighbour,
Bridget Mahone?” Mrs; O’Regan i “Bejabers,
thin, it’s me-self that is that same. She called
me a baste an I ups an’ calls her another. Qb>
yes, it’s on callin’ tur-r ms we are entoirely;”
W. E. Adcock, whose big insolvency is
causing a sensation in Adelaide and the Northern
Territory, is son of a former second-hand book-
seller in Richmond (Melb) Years ago, Adcock
sen..m doqa « udaq Bridge-road, near Highett’s
Paddcck. Adcock, jun., 20 years ago, was re-
porter on a local paper in Richmond. His leading
“WHAT’S IN A KAME?”
(OVERHEARD IN MELBOURNE.)
ALF: “TOM, BEHOLD YON LORDLY MANSION WITH A TOWER?
T OM : "YES"
ALF: “WELL, THAT'S WHERE MY FINANCIER DWELLITH”
TOM: “PARDON ME. I THINK YOU MEAN YOUR FIANCEE”
ALF: “NO SHE LIVES THERE TOO, BY-THE-BYE—BUT I MEAN HER
PAPA, TIE'S A LAND-BOOMER!”
idea even then was to start a bank at Port
Darwin. Tie always had a great notion of making
money by banking j he went in heavily for the
Provincial and Surburban Bank in Fitzroy, and
was one of the biggest losers. Adcock was one of
the most intelligent and damaging witnesses for
the Crown on the trial of the directors,
A Sandhurst (Vic ) citizen recently struck
his wife with a fire-shovel because, as he ex-
plained, she always “ sat on him ” when he
wanted to sing in company. He endured it
quietly for a long time, bat when she sat on his
melody for the hundredth time he took violent
measures. Tne crushed Beethoven was fined a
small amount.
An air of deep dejection overspreads like a
pall the Devil’s Brigade at Port Darwin. The
local Chinese, naturally litigious, and who for a
number of years have kept numerous European
lawyers in clover, have unanimously decided to
try all their disputes in the Joss House, according
to the custom cf their native country.
According to Chinese custom, the Em-
peror, who has j ast been married at the age of 18,
will now have a household consisting of 500 per-
sons, including 30 fan-bearers, 30 umbrella-bearers,
30 physicians and surgeons, 75 astrologers, 7 cooks,
and 60 priests. How celestial! Marriage shouldn t
be a failure, but a howling boom, under such cir-
cumstances. Ohinky etiquette also gives the male,
as well as the female, the privilege of changing his
name—and that for the third time in life; his first
name is only retained till he goes to school, when
the lop-eared, angular-faced schoolmaster chris-
tens him with a designation only pronouncable by
rice-eating jaws.
Nicholson’s artificial ear drum is a scien-
tific invention for the alleviation of deafness,
and has recently come into very general notice.
The drum is made after the principle of the
natural organ, and is manufactured from a clear,
trail ilucsnt gum, and finished with gold and silver.
The sound-waves, strikiegupon the outer disc, at
the orifice of the auditory canal, are conveyed by
means of a minute metal rod to the auditory nerve.
The inventor has many testimonials narrating the
wonderful power of the drum in increasing the
distinctness of hearing.
Max O’Rail, la his book of “ American
Impressions,” says that “contemporary America
seems to be governed by the Irish, The Germans,
the Scandinavians, all these crowds of foreigners
that, year by year, flock to the New World to find
a livelihood, and which America gradually assimi
late*, go West to fell forests and reclaim the land.
Bat the Irish pitch their tents for the most part
in the large cities, where they congregate together
and take up politic?. New York, which has been
successively in the power of the Dutch, the Eng-
lish, and the Yankees, is to-day the real capital of
Ireland. The English are always wondering why
Americans are all in favour of Home Rule for
Ireland, and ready to back up the cause with their
dollars. Why, I will tell you. The good Ameri
cans hope that when Ireland is restored to the
Irish, all the Irish will go home.”
A fine old English judge all of the ancient
time, who would have done credit to Botany Bay
in its palmy days, is the principal justiciary of
the Bahama Islands This illuminant of the
woolsack had sentenced a “ crook ” to seven ycars|
penal for burglary, and the convict “ took it out ”
of the judge by giving him “ a job in the eye ’ in
Court, The judge thereupon sentenced the
prisoner to imprisonment for life and 30 lashes ■
the supplementary having been given
without the vestage of a trial. The matter was
brought under the notice cf the English Govern
ment, who vetoed the sentence and mildly
cautioned the judge that if such a_ great mis-
carriage of justice should occur again it would
have vary serious consequences.
Dear Bulletin. —ln your Issue of the
16th Inst, you say that cats do not eat frogs.
Now, I am able to contradict this statement, as I
have on several occasions seen cats eating frogs.
I have a cat, a vary intelligent animal, which goes
evary night to a small tank, a short distance from
the house, where it sits on the bank and catches
the frogs as they come from the water. —Yours
faithfully, Thos. Nation. Oollindabri, N.S W.,
22ud February. [As our correspondent’s cat is an
exceptionally intelligent cat it must have belonged
to Parkes. Maybe the beast has been reading
Henry’s “Baby Song” in the Centennial.
Reading Parkes’poetry ii the very sort of thing
which would make a man take to drink or unhinge
a cat’s intellect to the extent of making it eat
frogs.— Ed. B.]
While the late Peter Lalor was Speaker of
the Victorian Assembly, Cooper, Chairman of
Committees, introduced his Sludge Bill, for the
construction of sludge - channels at Creswicks
Nimmo, the Scotch water-drinker, now Commis-
sioner of Public Works, stonewalled the measure,
and spoke for several hours on things in general,
apropos of nothing at all. One of the subjects
taken up was Robert Burns and the beauty of
Scotch scenery. Nimmo gave recitations from
Burns and Byron illustrative of the wild grandeur
of Caledonian mountales, when an honourable
member rose and thus meekly addressed the chair i
“Mr. Speaker,—Sir, I will take your ruling
whether the late Robert Burns and Scot dsh lands-
cape has anything to do with sludge?” Then
Nimmo and the objector resumed their seats, the
House was hushed to silence to hear the ruling of
the Chur, and Peter rose in bis majesty to deliver
judgment. “I apprehend,” said the hero of
Eureka, “that the honourable member for
Emerald Hill is attempting to show that the late
Mr. Burns could never have written those poems
on the beauty of Caledonian scenery if there had
been sludge-channels in Scotland.” Nimmo re-
sumed.
A Clown and Gumtree Jebnel poet
insults his country by inflicting on it a mys-
terious hash of wheezy and dissonmt nouns
beaten up in a mess of incoherent prepositions and
escaped articles. Hear him now :
W. F. Walker, who has just resigned the
Victorian Oommissionership of Trade and Cus-
toms, is brother of the late editor of the Melbourne
Daily Telegeaph. When that paper got under its
present management about four years ago, Editor
Walker was deposed and Rev. Fitchett, boss of
the Wesleyan Ladies’ College at Hawthorn, took
his chair. The longer of the brothers Short was
made “city” or “news” editor, so as to create
a modus vivendi for the two editors, one of whom
had press experience and the other a knowledge of
theology. Moreover, Harry Short used to put some
“ stuff ” on sporting events and the more godly
Fitchett preached against gambling. Editor
Walker having been cast on society again, didn’t
return to the State schools to teach youngsters to
read leading articles nor even go back to the
Assembly to give honourable members models of
grammatical English, but he heard the distant
boom of the land-row and resolved to be “ in it.”
He, therefore, set up in Collins-street as a land-
agent.
“ My native country ! the
Home of the call ‘ cooee,’
Australia !
Home of the waratah,
Home of the koala,
Land of the dingo and emu,
And butcher bird.”
We could rhyme you thus for ever were our
brains taken out and our spinal column in use as
a gas-pipe. List:—
My native countsy ! the
Homs of good “billy-can” tea,
Hosi-trail-yah 1
Home of the giddy goat,
Home of the puling ‘' pote,”
Land of the Noose and Jbbnel,
And Nosey Bob,
Truth and Proof.
When absolute truth is backed up with collateral
proof there can be no appeal. For the past three
years »nd a half Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co.,
proprietors of Warner’s safe remedies, have had a
standing offer of £lOOO for any statement of cure
published by them which was not, so far as we
know, positively genuine, and nobody has yet put
in a successful claim for it. The Messrs. Warner
and Co., have furnished us with a few extracts
from recent letters, which speak for themselves,
and they assure us they can furnish thousands of
similar ones.
“We have used Warner’s safe cure in our
family, and I can recommend its use,”
German Station, Q. (Ret ) I MM. Ehen.
“Warner’s safe rheumatic cure with Warner’s
safe cure cured me of rheumatism ”
Qympie, Q. C. Oadebay.
“ I have to thank Warner’s safe cure for saving
my life.”
Victoria Huon, Tasmania Mbs, Hague.
“I can certify to having received very great
benefit from the use of Warner’s safe cure.”
Wellinffton, If. Z. E. H. J. Reeves, M.H.R.
“ I used Warner’s safe cure for liver and kidney
complaints some twelve months ago, and have
ever since been in good health.”
Wellington, NZ. Jos. GeimmonD, M.H.E.
“ I owe my present existence to the use of War-
ner’a safe diabetes cure when every hope of life
had gone.”
Thames, If. Z. John Gibbons,
“ Twelve months ago I was cured of liver com-
plaint with Warner’s safe cure and Warner’s safe
pills, after suffering for years.”
Beenleitjh, Q. W. H. Grtggs.
“I can safely recommend Warner’s safe cure as
an excellent remedy in all diseases of the bladder,
kidney, and liver, and more especially in senile
cases,”
Auckland, NZ. C. E. Tennent, M D.
“ I can strongly recommend Warner’s safe cure
and safe pills for dyspepsia, having been cured of
this direful disease after suffering for two years.”
Musclebrook, NS.W. H. WINDSOR.
“I have much pleasure in testifying to the
efficacy of Warner’s safe cure, it freeing me from
all pain in the back, as well as other ill effects
proceeding from disordered kidneys.”
Lyttlcton, N.Z. (ReV.) E. E. Chambrbs.
“I am thoroughly persuaded that there is noth-
ing to equal Warner’s safe cure for diseases of the
kidneys. lam also thoroughly convinced that it
is a powerful remedy for weak lungs and con-
sumption.”
Waikouaiti, N.Z. (Rev.) Ben.t, Vanes.
“ I have in various instances prescribed War-
ner’s tafe cure and Warner’s safe pills for kidney
disease, Brights, and severe forms of indigestion,
and have seen it attended with most gratifying
results.”
Lunedin, NZ. R. W. Stjeling, L.R.O.S I.


Messrs. BEALE & CO. beg to announoe that
they are now in occupation of their new and exten-
sive warehouses at the rear of their new buildings
at 482 and 484 George street. In anticipation of
a large increase in the sale of the inimitable Hapt-
burg Pianos, they have just landed out of Peninsu-
lar and Oriental steamers and other ships a really
magnificent choice of these celebrated instruments,
which, by sheer merit, have won their way in
public favour beyond all competitors. Many
thousand Hapsburgs have been sold throughout
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies have
been sent to us testimonials expressing perfect
satisfaction.
The construction of the Hapsburg differs in-
herently from that cf other pianrs. The follow-
ing are some of the qualities which have toge.her
placed io in pre-emiuencj :
Ist. The most easy and durable action yet in-
vented, viz , cluck 1 ver with frmt escapement.
The parts have Le. n selechd with extreme care,
the wood i mployed being pencil cedar, an expen-
sive material, but cne which will neither shrink,
oast, nor warp.
2ud. The vires are of very best s‘eel, in the bass
covered with copper orly The vilrations are
reverberated by a aouadir g board specially secured
against change s • f t mp rature, imparting a clear,
full, round, d -'Li n s singing tone in marked con-
tras i to the tin ke tly, m tallic sounds of inferior
instruments.
3rd. All Ha] sburgs are now double oblique, the
strings beii g of gr. ater length, thus giving fuller
tolurmtla i the old, f traight-strung pianos.
4th. AU Hapsburgs are trichord.
sth. All have seven oo taves A to A.
6th. They have consolidated iron frames of great
strength. These frames are square reaching from
the bottom of the case to the extreme top of the
wrest-plank s r cui ely bolted through the latter.
Compound studs sustain the whole with absolute
rigidity. That these precautions are necessary
may be under s’oxl f«m the Let that the tension
of the vires equals a suspended weight of 13 tons.
Thus the rat id mutations of our climate are
resisted and tunirg is only required at long inter-
vals.
7th. The Felts are clinched on the hammers, in-
stead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every piano excepting the Haps-
Curg.
Bth. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
Plate as a special safeguard against change. A
Split Wrest-plank is an unknown accident to a
Hapsburg.
9th. Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
Cockroaches, Moths, Mice, &c. Wire-gauge backs
*je provided.
10th. AU interior blocks and bearing are secured
In their places by screws, which is a great excep-
tion to the usual style of construction.
11th. The whole ac.ion is made adjustable and
Interchangeable.
12th. The Cuter Cases are of orig'nal and chaste
des : gns and of perfect finish They are made of
well-seasoned, durable, and beautiful woods, and
can be had in Walnut, Rosewood, or Ebony, with
©r without gold engraving.
A FEW SELECTED TESTIMONIALS.
CHARLES S. PACKER
a brilliant Pianist, and the greatest composer Australia
has known, the associate of Mendelssohn, Tcalberg,
Hummel and Weber; the accompanist of the worlds
sweetest singers—Mat io, Grisi, Labiache ; the author of
the “ Crown of Thorns, ” and many other noble composi-
tions, handed us the following :
“ Sydney, 7th March, 1883.
“ I have tested the Hapsburg Pianos, imported by
Messrs. Beale and Company, in all the various grades, and
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulness, and
p wer of the instruments. The tone and finish are all
that oould he desired. Tee proper oalancing of bass with
treble is strictly adhered to. Generally I consider them
unsurpassed hv any irstrument hitherto introduced.
(Signed) CHARLES PACKER, Royal Academician.”
Madame CHARBONNET KELLERMAN wrote :
“ Ayann snumij les PI a NOS HAPSBURG, de Messieurs
Beale et Compagnie aux PLUS STRICTES EPREUVES,
1e declare avoir onssi charmbe que surprise de la
)OUCEUR EXQUISE DE LEUR TOUCHER, unie a une
ampleur et une SONORITE REMARQUABLES. Je lea
rticomniande en toute sinc6rit6. ALICE CHARBONNET-
KELLERMAN, da Conservatoire de Paris, Sydney, 20
Juin, 1883.”
CERTIFICATE.
“ I have subjected Messrs. Beale and Co.’s HAPSBURG
PIANOS to the severe.t teafa, and am greatlv surprised
and delighted at their MARVELLOUS SWEETNESS and
POWER. I cordia'lv recommend them.—(Signed) ALICE
CIIAKBONNET-KELLERMAN, of the Conservatoire of
Paris. Sydney, June 20, 1883.”
Governor Sir W. C. Robinson, of South Australia, the
composer of “ Unfurl the F:ag ” and other patriotic songs,
himself a thorough musician, examined and tested the
HAPSBURG PIANOS, and gave his unqualified recom-
mendation, which was duly reported in the Adelaide
papers at much greater length than can be her* given.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Lieutenant-Governor orijueensland,
■elected and purchased from us a Hapsburg Piano on
account of its special sweetness.
The BRISBANE COVUTit*.
11 The Piano used for the accompaniments and the solos
was a brilliant toned Hapsburg, of which both singers and
players speak very highly."
TELEGRAPH.
“ The Piano used on the occasion waa a Ifspsburg of a
beautiful quality of tone and p’enty of power. ”
The AUSTRALIAN.
“ The voices blended beautifully with the accompani-
ment, which was on one of the Hapsburg Grand instru-
ments. The tone of this instrument is exceedingly pure
and powerful, and its qualities under the thrilling touch
of the conductor were displayed with consummate effect."
SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone."
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are all of excellent workman-
•hip. The manual throughout is remarkably sensitive to
the touch, and the volume is admirably balanced, and
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments.”
VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
“ Blshop’s-court, Adelaide, November 29, 1883.
“Mrs. Kennion has much pleasure in saying that she
and those who have used the Hapsburg Piano at the
Court have been much pleased by the quality and sweet-
ness of the instrument.
“ Mrs. Kennion will have much pleasure in recommend-
ing the Hapsburg Pianos. ”
HAYDN ORGANS.
Never require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnut.
Guaranted for Ten YsmOl
Over ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND of these Organs
have been sold. The best only is the cheapest. The
Haydn Organs are of beautiful design, simple construc-
tion, patent indiarubber bellows (which insects will not
touch),"lvqry keys, massive oases, exquisite tone.
HAYDN HARMONIUMS—Prices, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPANY.
Catalogues Free by Post.
*BB, 484, 486 Qborus Strut, Stdnst.
NO MATTS* WHERE YOU LIVK we will supply yon
with Piano, Organ, or Uaruioulam upon I AST TIMI
PAYMENT*
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS. UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OE
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7id. per lb. (free
from seed), Cafi Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30s. to 505., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters. Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frill-
ings, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER'S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address - LAWLER, SYDNEY.
J. LAWLER~& SONS,
Gknebal Impobtkbs and House Fubnishkbs,
SYDNEY.
RbTABL(BHEP IKRO
W
H
AWKESBURY RIVER, SUMMER
SEASON.
SANITORIUM HOTEL.
PEATS FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete w ith all the re-
quirements of tourists and vhilors, and having
been bui t on a specially chosen and picturesque
sjob. is well worthy the patronage cf visitors to
she Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitos; gas thiough the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished; loating and fisting; three-
quarters of a mile the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The itesmer will meet all trains for the con-
ve ietce cf visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
cpportuniiy of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &c.
For the convenience ot patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train oa receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.
Department of Pubbc Works, Sydney,
March 1. 1889.
ENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES
For conditions iev Government Gazette.”
T
Nature of Works and
Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Oonsti notion cf Wharf, &c. North
Creek, Richmond River
Construction cf Shed on Wharf
opposite Frederickton, Macleay
River
Alterations, Pist and Telegraph
Office, Dubfco
Bridge, Allen’s Oieflr, road Wol-
longong to Port Kembla
Bridge over Billabong at Walla
Walla
Bridge, Warrrgo R’.ver, at Ecn-
gmia (fresh tenders)
Bridge, Storey Creek, road
Braid wool to Aralu n, fresh
tenders
No. 43, Sydney Sewer-
age, Lvying Stoneware Pipes,
&c , Golden Grove
Supp’y of Anti-fouling and Anti
corrosive Paint, Harbours and
Rivers Department, durirg
188!)
Erection ol Gatekeepers’ Cottage,
Hornsby to S\ Leonard) Rail
way
C mtrnotion of Two Trucks fur
Bermagui Wharf, to be de-
livered at Il'awarra S N. Com-
pany’s whaif, Sycn°y, fresh
tead rs
Saoply of 200 lons Coal at Cook’s
Rivar
Supply of Earthenware Drain
Pipes at Scabs Bay
Contract 47, Svdney Sewerage, 3
Section, E.stern Suburbs
Drainage
Bridge, Sptnoat’s Creek Road,
K'nchela to Spencer’s Creek
Bridge, Blackwater Creek, toad
Bamato Moaina
Sale to Government cf small
Steam Launch
Additions (o Post Office, Danili
quin
Goods Sled, Pens, &c, Byron
Bar Jetty
Bridge, Budgen Craek at Mandi
(fresh tenders)
Manufacture and Delivery of
Single Ladder Dredge for Syd-
ney Har r our
Manufacture in the colony of
Water Pipes—to be constructed
either of Wrought Lon, Steel,
or Oast Iron
Wednesday,
March 13, at
11 o’ckck.
Wednesday,
March 27,
at 11 o'clock.
Wednesday,
April 10,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
May 8,
at 11 o'clock.
JAMES FLETCHER,
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers,
Babho’s taking Fowders,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Yinegar, Blacking,
Am., &0., Am.
Stkam Works and Bbkwkbts
amis STREET, ULTIMO, STDNET
(opposite Goldsbrough’a Wool Stores).
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee; Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer; Mr, Goodman.
Immense success of
MR. CHARLES WARNER
as “TOM ROBINSON ” in
“IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessees ... Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.50
UNDOUBTED SUCCESS OF
MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD
as “COUNT DANELLA ’ in
THE VENDETTA.
PRICES-5s , 35., 35., and Is.
Box plan open daily at Vestibule from 10 till 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
EVERY EVENING at 8 sharp.
Immense Suoce r s of
BROUGH and hOUCICAULTS COMEDY
COMPANY.
For 8 Nights only
BETSY
BETSY
BETSY.
ADMISSION— £3 3s to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr, JOB DAVIS.
B
ONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d.
G
A 8.
GAS.
GAB.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEO
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Hours ; 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
J
UST PUBLISHED.
"THE BULLETIN’S"
History of Botany Bay,
Bt Abthub Gath.
m rß«fVlllT~iuVß»Afl> ‘M
BT
Thb Bbiurih'h well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Pbioi - ONE SHILLING.
Fsi rest, is. M. (except Queensland).
aju isim.
Id u related of one of the Foreign-trade
numbers for Redfern (N.S.W.) that he was asked
when a candidate at a recent election “what he
the u*ht about the social purity question.” “ Wel>,”
s z he, “ Oi’ve made the subject) a matther of very
special comideration in vaiious counthries and
have come to the conclusion that the dry-earth
sjstem I* the bast.”
G. E, Cass, who was recently returned for
the Bogan, N.S.W,, stated at the previous election
two years ago that on that occasion he asked as
usual f r r the supper J of a certain secret society,
which, to his surprise, was denied him. “ Why,”
he remarked, “lama Protectionist I” ‘ Andsoarc
we,” replied the boss of the lodge, “ but we must
stick to the old man ” (Parkes),
Stork Cattle for Salk. —1000 male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
“Mv Tailor,” 164 King-Btreot, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suits to measure (or £3 3s.
PERFECT HEALTH I
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hoiking*. 410 George Street, near King Street.
When next yon bake try PemeU’e Show-vhitx Fatih*
Roll** Fi,oue. rnd your breed will be m white •« enow
JJBWTOH AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS. UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Mandfaotobt ;
SPRING & O’OONNKLL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, In any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NBUFBLD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete. In various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connblk Btbiiii.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £6 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’CONNELL AND SPBINQ STBBBTS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wabdbobb, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door; Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Tablb,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cufboabd
and Two Canb-Sbatbd Ohaibs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’CONNELL AND SPRING STBBBTB.
t
A USTRIAN BENT-
WOOD
FURNITURE.
A VBBT OOMPIiITi
Assobtmbnt.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
K
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, (or camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 6 feet long and np to SO feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
APANESB BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d. j BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s, 6d. |
12x10,155. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
ŧ
PATENT
BHUT-UP
CLOTHES DKYBRi
186 feet ol hanging sp»W
Very Cheap.
newton"*" LAMB.
t
OANVAB FOLDING
OHAIBB.
Substantial and Eight.
Suitable loi Shipboard snd
Verandah.
Ptllß Very tow.
NEWTON ft LAMB,
Furniture Warehouseiftßb,
Spuing and O’Oonnbii STh»n*i»^
LAWN and PARK SEATS, Bit. long. BortjJ
Oast Iron Standards, 14s. 6d. oath. N*'* ;
and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, IBs. Verandah Oh»l»»
Indian Long-Arm Lodnobs.
NEWTON ft LAMB.
ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES. I*°®
15s. } and large variety of Ohalrs, from
6d., etc.} special designs, extra quality. N»^ T .
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring " n
O’Oonnell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Pfjjj
Nbwton ft Lamb, Importers, OOonn
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest B**®*’
Nbwton ft Lamb, O’Oonnell-street. .
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wl»«. w
■oak*, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. sait.
NHWTONsnd »A* ,P ’


Write for plans £10 Building Sitfs, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 9G Bathurst-street, Sydney.
y
t
ff
f
ft
+1
O
X
n
o
tJb
Q
/VCENTS.
DEIISSAI PHILLIPS
Barrack Street.
* Adam Bede s *
Benevolent (Consultations.
“ All the Ykab Round.”
TWENTY TEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
In accordance with the suggestion of the
Sydney Bulletin, “ Adam Bede •’ will devote to
specific public charities three-tenths of his com-
misi ion on all sweeps upon four of the great events
of the year, viz : Newmarket Handicap, Austra-
lian Cup, Great Metropolitan Stakes, and Mel-
bourne Cup. In the three sweeps advertised
hereunder and in all sweeps except those above
specified he reserves to himself the light to give a
bonus to charities commensurate with the success
of the sweep.
Autumn Handicap,
Run at'Hawkesbury, April 13,1889.
1.000 Subscribers at £1 Each. 1,000
First Horse £l6OO
Second Horse £6OO
Third Horse £4OO •
Starters, £600; Non-starters, £BOO
(to be divided amongst them).
Sydney Gold Cup,
Run at Randwick, April 22, 1889.
10.000 Subscribers at £1 Each. 10,000
First Horse £4OOO
Second Horse £l5OO
Third Horse £lOOO
Starters, £1500; Non-starters, £2OOO
(to be divided amongst them).
Easter Handicap,
Run at Auckland, N. Z , April 22, 1889.
0,000 Subscribers [at £1 Each. 2,000
First Horse £BOO
Second Horse £3OO
Third Horse £2OO
Starters, £300; Non-starters, £4OO
(to be divided amongst them).
Adam Bede’s is tie oil? fair method of drawisr,
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bbdb until after the races have been run.
Subscribers are particularly requested to re-
gister their letters to ensure safe delivery, and
must enclose stamps for reply and result and
add exchange to cheques.
Address
“ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Next Event ADELAIDE CUP (£2000)
May 9bh, 1889,
BAD, MARK, LEARN.
Far-peeing men who know somewhat of the
wonderful development of the Eastern Colonies
during the last few years will tell you that ere
long Western Australia will be one of the
wealthiest of Australian colonies.
Everyone should send for a Plan of the
PADDINGTON ESTATE, PERTH,
Westebn Australia, close to the City.
Good Land. Well situated.
LARGE LOTS ONLY £lO BACH.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms, or Discount tor
Cash.
BEST ALLOTMENTS ARB SELLING
RAPIDLY.
| They Cannot be Replaced at the Pbicb.
Good Building Sites on the Paddington Estate
are now obtainable at ridiculously low prices, but
now that Responsible Government has been
granted to the colony and the coal and gold mines
are proved to be extensive and rich, Western
Australia will forge ahead rapidly, and property,
especially in and around the Capital City, will
greatly increase in value.
THERE IS NO TIME LIKE THE PRESENT.
BUY BEFORE THE SURELY COMING
BOOM.
Marked plans, pamphlets, &0., posted to any
address on application to the
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CQ., Ltd.,
96 Bathdest Street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager,
Jon RrairiM
(Late of Saywell’s Tobacco Co ),
Wholesale and Retail
TOBACCONIST,
532 George Street
(Opposite TOWN H ALL),
SYDNEY.
RTHUR D. SPALDING
HOMCEOPATH, ALLOPATH,
HERBALIST,
35 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET).
I have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and wcm’n
without the aid of nauseous drugs so p?rnicio:s to
the system and so objectionable to the palate. I
will guarantee a
COMPLETE CURE IN A FEW DAYS,
or will refund the money. Now what can be
fairer for both parties ?
The time is over when, it was necessary
to use substances nauseous, such as Copaiba
and Cubebs, by which so many evils were
caused. The diseases alluded to above are, as any
sane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (as I will prove) be cured by local treat-
ment, without the use of any Caustic, Styptic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &c,
I will not make you call constantly so as to pay
several fees. My terms are One Charge Only, or
Up country residents treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
communications treated as strictly confidential.
Private Consulting Rooms and Laboratory,
35 feLIGH STREET.
Hours 10 to 12 ; 2 to 4, and 7 to 9 p.m.
Robert butohbr t co.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine aid
Spirit Business to
693 A GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets},
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
NO CURE NO PAY.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street, Noith, Ma'cb 5, 1889.
Dear Moorabinda
Lady Carington has, I hear, put her foot down firmly
ibis time. She declares once and for all that there are
ome people whom she will not receive at Government
House, Sydney, under any circumstances whatever.
Rather than do so she will go home and let them alleettle
the matter between themselves.
I suppose you have heard that one of the Brassey (beg
pardon! De Bress ) girls is engaged to be married, A
brother cf Lord William Neville, ex-aide to Sir Henry
Loob, is the happy man—if men ever are happy in the
" engaged ” s'ate.
The latest Melbourne scandal, concern! og a ba’l that
eventuated in the very heart of Tocnk, is too dreadful to
be told in press—
A friend writes me from Melbourne that the Christian
Schiller, at the Tjwn Hall, went off with great eclat. She
was particularly pleaeed with the singing of Henry
Braoy, who made his re appearance before an Australian
audience after an interval of nine years. I mutt have
been very young when I last heard Braoy’s silvery tenor
in comic opera. All girls were very 3 oung nine years
ago.
Did you remember " The Little Victim,” a clever, de
pressing picture of a hollow-eyed young girl, which
attracted much attention in the French Gallery at Mel
bourne Exhibition ? It took the fancy of Mrs. Albert
Miller, sc her husband chose it as the “ trophy ” to which
he was entitled by the victory of one of bis steeplechasers
After this, I think horse racing must certainly rank as
fine art.
What do you think of this extract ? I came across it in
the middle of a thrilling stcry cf love and devcticr, and
when I read it I cune to the conclusion that though love
may always be the same love stories are built on a dif
ferant plan from that which prevailed in the da3S when 1
was a girly thing in comparatively short frocks which
exposed my ankles to the public eye:—
“ She was a light, free hearled girl with auburn treeseei
and in the midst of the os ulatcry performance with her
lover she swooped down upon him like a summer fog
upon a millstone and scooped him in. She eat on lis lap
and k ssed him with a business which an emotiona!
actress would have given ten years ot her life to imitate
upon the stage. It was an earthquake of love ; a simoom
of affection.”
Does that description arouse any unwonted feelings
underneath your chest protector, my Mcorabinda ?
According to an E rglisn paper the ftminine world will
soon be blessed with a new article of attire in the shape of
a fan to be worked by the feet. The inventor is an
actress, and ehe has got the new machine so far advatccd
that she can fan herself in the street, provided she etops
and hangs on to a lamp-post, and star ds on one foot while
she agitates the ventilator with the ether. She believes
that when the instrument is perfected it will work quiet y
and automatically while the wearer walks along the
footpath, hut it hasn’t reached that stage yet—in its pre-
sent state it looks as if the fan-bearer were try-
irg to brush a fly off her other ankle with her toe, and
this objection is fatal. Also, there are times when the
fan gets out of rrder and then the wearer, even if she
doesn’t want to fan here elf, is compelled to stop short and
kick the weapon into a state of repose. Consequently the
street is liable to be Ailed at any moment with hot, flushed
girls hanging on to lamp posts and hitting out with their
Bhoes, and then the offensive male animal stops to pass
remarks and offer observations and to on. No ! the auto-
matic fan won’t do in town, however well it may adapt
itself lo the bovine solitudes where my Moorabinda
blushes unseen.
I really think some girls are born without brains—(l
know for a positive fact plenty of boys art). I saw in the
tram, the other day, two nicely-dressed girls with rings on
their flrgers - outside their gloves.
Taere is absolutely nothing novel in mantles for the
coming winter. Some new and not very striking materials
are being made up in the old shapes under strange names,
hut some fresh buttons on last year’s coats will keep us
quite in the mode, tbank goodness 1 By the way, one of
the Melbourne houses has just imported a real live man
to out and fit for the mantle department, and I hear that
his artistic productions are the talk of afternoon teas.
The “ latest ” ribbon is a wide green silk, with two satin
stripes—one of a light, the other of a dark, shade of
green. Another “novel” and pretty ribbon is cardinal
satin with plush stripes. I can remember three ribbons,
or some almost identical, being worn 25 years ago—ahem 1
1 Intended saying that ma could remember them dis-
tinctly. Of ceurse I was a mere infant 25 years ago.
An ancient lady made herself rather conspicuous in the
street the other dky by wearing a large gauze hat with
two immense feathers and a tremendous bunch cf daisies.
She must have scooped off a whole daisy-field.
A “ gas-green ” arophane hat that I saw the other
harmonised well w ich the wearer's myrtle-green cos-
tume. You wen’d n)t think it a successful combination,
but it wu ; p-riaaps the wearer (a pretty brunette) made
H so.
Yours truly,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Mr. W. P. Crick, judging from hia first
parliamentary effort, will be a slashing speaker.
But he will have to “ boil it down.”
The Mabdista have a newspaper. It it
published at Omdurman, and is called the Mana-
sheah. The funny column usually contains a
reference to the N.S. W. Contingent.
It is rumoured that Peter Jackson attri-
butes his success in the Sates to tie use of Mar-
shall’s Tonic Nervine, and has ordered a case for
training purposes in his coming match with
Cardiff.
Patchett Martin announces himself in his
new book to be a resolute enemy to Home Rule
for Ireland. This is what comes of having asso-
ciated in early life with A. M. Topp, of the
Argus.
Secretary Pulsford says that “ the whole
o! Australia will shortly beccma freetrader’
Quite right, Pulsford. There will be intercolonial
freetrade— and a scientific tariff against the foreign
shoddy men.
A few days after Mr. Sydney Burdekln
came in for his two or three million legt c 7 he
drove down town and purchased The Bulletin.
The transaction took place in the presence of a
large number o' persons at the corner of King
and Elizabeth street?, Sydney, and Mr. B, paid
his sixpence for the paper like a man. His con-
version to the Prot( cticnist cause is now looked
upon as certain.
Governor Cat iic ton has paid an official
visit to the Sydney Mechanics’ Institute, now
known as the School of - Arts Having been
koo-toc-ed to and champagned, the Baron stated
that it was his intention to provide the institu-
tion with a portrait of himself and her ladyship.
On their receipt it is to be hoped that the com-
mittee will sell that enormous daub, “ The
Martyrdom of St. Sebastian ” by the rod, pole, or
perch, at prairie- value.
The N.Z, farmers complain of the miser-
able lack of enterprise of the Maoriland Prei s.
Despite the recent great rise in the price of pro-
duce in Australia, not a word appeared in the
leading papers of N.Z. until the gentle
speculator, who makes a point of never get-
ting left>, spread his wings on the blast, and
bought every bit of produce for two or three hun-
dred per cent, under market value.
Forger Pigott has suicided, leaving a re-
quest that the Times should look after his children.
By the lime Farrell has done with the Times the
latter will have ss mnoh as ever it can do to look
after its own children. Tft's request of Pivott’s
strikes us as about the cochtt on record. Up to
a week ago we ourselves bad worn the champion
belt for cast iron cheek, but when we read Mr.
Pigott’s requ st to the Times to look after his
children we unhitched the belt and coiled it up
and said to the office-boy : “Ykcent Angelo,
unless that cablegram :'s contradicted within a
week, please make th's up into a parcel and mail
it to Mr. Pigott, Times office.” No w that Pigott’s
dead we thick we’ll wear the belt again pending
the time that Dan 0 Corner asmmes the N.S.W.
Postmaster-Generalship or Pa-kas opens another
State school or Francis Abigail becomes N.S.W.
Minister of Education.
At the opening of the N.S.W. Parliament,
during the reading of the Governor’s speech the
conduct of the Opposition was of such a character
as to fairly make the Govei nor wince. The incident
r calls a somewhat similar one in the political
history of Victoria. The “People’s Ministry”
under E/chard Heales were defeated on a resolu-
tion proposed by D. S. Hedley “that the present
advisers of His Excellency the Governor do not
possess the confidence of this ho~ss or of the
country,” and on the strength of the latter rs er-
tion Sir Henry Barkly granted a dissolution.
When the members of the Ats’mbly were sum-
moned to the Council Chamber to hear the pro-
rogation spjech copies of the tatter were distri-
buted to membeis immediately the Governor
finished. Mr. J. Danoistoun, an eminent
banister, ia mediately, and in the presence of His
Excellency, tore his copy in pieces and flung them
on the floor of the House. This act was the politi-
cal death of Mr. Wood, who never gained any
great prestige afterwards. He soon after left for
London where he now enjoys a large Privy
Council practice.
Mr. Laora-d Gwyr, P 0. Chambers, Pibb-
street, Sydney, has commenced business as an Hotel
and General t usic ess Broker; he hopes by mode rate
charges and by strict attentkn to the interests of
his clients to obtain a fair share of patronage. His
system is, no sale, no charge. Mr. G’s long con-
nection with Messrs. Starkey & Taylor will be
sufficient guarantee of his reliability in all masters
entrusted to him.
At the Invitation of Messrs. Llardet and
Smith a number of prominent citizens witnessed
last week a trial of Mr, De Lambert’s new de-
tonent, “Neokratine,” at Harnett’s quarries,
Mossman’s Bay. The advantages claimed over
other explosives are its power, cheapness, and
freedom from danger, which were amply demon-
strated by Mr. Fincombe who. with a shot weigh-
ing 501 b?., dislodged about 700 tons of rock- The
trials were eminently successful, and the inventor
is to be congratulated.
Dear Bulletin, —Knowing the deep in-
terest you take in sorcerers, witches, prophets,
faith-healers, magicians, cheap curses, nervous
debility, visions, nightmares, and other branches
if occult science, I called round the other day—
purely on your account —at the business premises,
cavern, or office of a certain gilt and decorated
prophetess, whose lair is situate in Hunter street,
Sydney. It is a rocky fastness above a shop, and
a small boy who loafs underneath always thinks
that the prophetess is out, but she isn’t. Her
business name, as I learnt with some difficulty, is
Fannitza, but she may get over that in time. I don’t
think it is incurable. Like a good many other
mubs of human extraction, I have often had a
desire to look into the future and ascertain what
was going to happen before a bard, uncompro-
mising Providence brought the circumstance down
on my head just at the moment when I didn’t
expect it ; the bed-slat of an unsympathetic
Destiny comes down a little easier when you have
got notics that it is on the way ; so I asked this
lady to inform me of any prominent facts which
she could grasp by the tail as they fled through
the panorama of her vision, and she said she
would. She then proceeded to get a pack of
cards ready and to shake up some mysterious
instruments like diving bells in the last stage
of consumption, and while she was getting these
things together I enquired if she was born of poor
but honest parents, or anything of that sort. She
replied that she was the daughter of the lamented
Sultan Abdul-Aziz, whose remains were found
scattered like a forgotten emblem of mortality on
a floor at Stamboul some 13 years ago, and that
her childhood had been spent by the shores of the
Golden Horn. The worldly effects of Abdul-
Aziz, I presume, were shaken by his successor, a
harmless, melancholy lunatic who used to weep
upon the throne and utter miserable howls in the
dead of n’ght until the nati in deposed him also in
order to get some sleep ; and thus Abdul’s
daughter was left unprovided for. The o’d man
had a good many of them, toe —in fact, he was
married to such a dreadful extent and in such a
widespread and reckless manner that it was hard
to avoid the distinction of having him for a father,
and I believe Forkes himself only escaped
that honour by the exercise (f a personal
velocity which was almost superhuman in its
tremendous suddenness. When the harem was in
its best days the botcher used to leave 187 mutton-
chops with the eunuch at the back gate every
morning, and the day that Abdul went into
liquidation a camel could net move in Stamboul
»ithout set 1 irg his fl it foot on a female in dis-
tress. Out of respect for these faded glories the
Sultan’s wandering (laughter prophesies in Turkish
costume. She studied my future carefully and
informed me that an aged male relative would
shortly die out, and that, if I looked after his
effects with the energy which always characterises
me when there aie any effec s to look after, I
might secure the whole Jot. I said that I would
travel upon the wir gsef the wind in my search after
theseeffects. I also learnt that I might despise the
machinations of a red-haired man who was seeking
to perpetrate a fraud upon me, and from this time
firth all red-haired men who wish to perpetrate a
fraud upon ms will find me more dangerous than
the boa-ccnstr'c'or in his lair. The rest of my
fortune consisted chiefly of mineral wealth which
poured on me from all quarters, and when I bade
farewell to the daughter of Abdul-Az ; z I felt as if
I were treading on a path of sovereigns and falling
heavily over stacks of bank-notes. I suppose
there is something in it—in fact, I am sure there
must be, for when I got home that night the first
thing that met’ my eye in the backyard was the
threepenny bit which I lost the week before last.
I am now waiting for my aged relative to die—l
have posted two men outside his gate to watch for
signs of physical decay, and when he begins to
break up I will start to remove the property at
occe.—Yours, etc., John Smith.
She was young and rather merry
A r d she tock a glass of she rey,
Which was very foolish, very—
F. v i i got into her head ;
And she showed an inch of stocking
In a manner, O 1 so shocking ;
All the “boys ” were rornd her filching,
But the other ladies fled.


JOSEPHSOFS_ OINTMENI
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN TH
$ WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHER!
HE V) ISt HE RE. But, as many new arrival
have lately made New South Wales their home, i
may be as well ti let them know that there is sue
an article as JOsE PHSON’S OINTMENT pure!
the product on of the colony, composed of wil
plants indigenous to the country and nowhere else
the principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS
now so tamed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, an
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonou
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as th
Green colour is extracted from the pure greet
plants, which dtfy imitation.
WHO SHOULD StTFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Mf figrs. E. Row and Co.
Lear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint
tnent for Piles, and 1 aye found much relief front
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you fee
disposed.
I remain, vours, etc.,
L P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANa’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony foi
tries a pure Bitt'rs shows they are superior to al
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak LouDES than Words,
Read this sw r a testimony from a well-known
cit:zea; -
Statutory Declarations.
s ‘ I, Grorge Hewrtt, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows .
“ lhat 1 feel io a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been tuffering for rncnj 7 years
from weakness of the stomach, so called iNDt-
GE TION or D V SPFPSIA, and have befeh cured
or three glasses of ROW’S
SrEAfvE S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
others suffering from the same complaint
will bo fto Speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE
Is a safe and sure stimu T ant for the female sex or
chi dren, for ib raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment Do be followed by greater depression
Persons tuffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
dehcate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when . uffenrer from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-in Vented
TOlsf.; answer all tho imposes of a stimulant
without rs intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the c r ftvirgs of nature and crea e a dr sire for fooa
mate d of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three limes a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For general 1 utility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Outmecus Affections.
The action of Dandelion, mote especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluud with same quantity of wafer. For
young p ople about half the quantity twice a day
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN
SAYS ABOUT THEM,
Mesers. E. Row and fo.
With thanks f. r forwarding me a bottle of your
Row s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and supeii r to many others that I have
nrevionsJy tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned :
‘•I have for many y ars been obliged to take
medicines of diffennt kinds for affections of the
liver, ind’gestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness trreal
depression of spirits, and so'on, hut all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, beine
K 9W’S DANDELION
TIERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wcnderful effect and chancre
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horribly depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex
penenced for so many years.
“ x am glad of the opportunity to make known
of B° W ’* DANDELION
mi J.RKS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yr urs
“MARY TERRILL,
m u _ , , * Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
Meaara. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney."
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS
BARON BERZELIUS BUCIIU BITTERS
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Sol* PuonuKTOM,
Edward Row & Company,
O, «, U GEORGE STREET
■TDVST.
More eauer-kraut! Prince Edward of Saxe-
Weimar has succeeded the Earl of Lucan in the
command of Ist Life Guards.
Amongst the literary treasures of the Grey
collection at Auckland (N.Z ) library is the
original translation by Rev. Mr. Threlkeld of the
Gospel of St. Luke into the aboriginal (Austra-
lian) tongue.
Swallow and Atiell, of Cairns (Q ) are
going to send to Melbourne fruit and bananas pre-
served by a special process not long discovered.
Their plantation, by the way, is one of the few in
the North that pays expenses and makes a profit
into the bargain.
A Victorian paper says that Sydney Is In
advance of Melbourne only in one respect—Time I
A little colony of Swiss mountaineers have
settled at t lie Hermitage, close to the glaciers or
Mount Cook, N, Vu
The Scottish Catholics are endeavouring
to have Mary, Queen of Scots, canonised. As she
dynamited her husband, let her be cannonised by
all means, say we.
One of the Melbourne financial companies
—what a lot of them there are ! has just declared
a dividend of 20 per cent., and yet the shares of
this prosperous institution are quoted at a con-
siderable discount.
feaceiltly a jjarty of enthusiastic pioneers
pet out. to discover an active volcano in Central
(Queensland. They found a son of ould Ireland,
with whom the local rum had disagreed.
The advanced itoman Catholics of the
United States are agitating in favour of confession
by telephone in order to avoid turning out on
damp nights and getting their feet wet while
securing the eternal salvation of their souls. This
movement looks as if religious fervour had come
down in a heap. If the ancient Apostles had
been of the same luxurious turn, and had insisted
on being martyred by cablegram, we are inclined
to think there would never have been any church
at all.
Pearls in thb Mouth.— White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daity' use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tariar froUi the teeth and polishes the ehatnel
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar 01l prevents the hair falling o& orturhing grey,
and produces a luxuHant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
0 ofaetniSte.*
Old Pom, Olaret, Hook, Sherry, Rouelllen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, fto. Unequalled High-olaie Wlnea are
only to be had from HookinBs of 410 Qeorf e-itreel, under
Marshall, ohemlet, near King.street.*
E. C. ELEY
,0*
sP
<3
-A'
<2>
s-
&
<b
r
v
v
£
&
t
t
ţ
t
ţ
o
o
0
c>
*
ť
ŧ
t
ţ
50
0
v
V
<<>
ť
390 a. GEORGE S T
SYDKTEIY,
William 1 ! Australian Inieotlold li death to all laiisti.
Simple In Application— sate In eSeot. Ihli I* the only
Pennine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of Insects, while It Is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be need without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no eqnal—as the fames of
the barnt powder, while throwing ofl a pleasant odoat
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 567 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs llllett Bros,
and B. Prosser A Oo.»
£20
£20
BUCKBOARD BVCMIIES
Regular shipments of the Best Buokboard
Buggies In the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 x 16 x 61n. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Backboards with pole,
&o., £27. F.O.B. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
"d most completely equipped Coach Works in
* istralasla. Call and see ns. Terms : Cash ; or
a -taker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
WITTENBERG fc 0 0„
• IMPORTERS,
81 CiiABXNOB Street, Wyntabd Squam.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Monldlngs.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c,, without consulting a medibal man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 706, Sydney.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
■O. 78 CLARENCE STREET, STOREY.
• t
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce
AND PAY *
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
+:+ ; +
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms.
Tcn.es’ S©T*rlngr 2vCsicla.l3a.es,
FOB THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. -
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
IAELEiCB, jJETTBEIU I Co., and Lsathsr Morch&sisi
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
—’ Bole A « enlB for * he »bovo lor New Booth Wales and Queensland.
0
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all Details (nnlnriin»
Impor thers.&o., and of the following Special LinSs : PEERLESS
NUBIAN BLACKING Tsn.sr. Tool, and M.t..1.1„ l.dfj a.S’
DR. RICHARDS.
%
OM
RO
t'co NSULT
□ ■RICHARDS
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Ohio!
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS. AND SKIN
DISEASE.
Ho has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources aid
Insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY TEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practise
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or derk ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, EeSdiS6h3l,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulnesc,
disoontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, bussing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of Id. In
stamps he will send secure from observation In a
plain wrapper, postage
FRED. A LARGE CLOTH BOUND
& BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private oi
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though yon be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
tome poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
p? receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
a-ri courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
In the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propabllity,
assist yon materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
semedles, and never prescribes mercury under any
•Ixeumstanoes. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their oases will
scrnaln a secret between the doctor and themselves-
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 26,001
cases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communis*
Mens should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
f Spring Street, Sydney
cfl Pitt Street North).
Bt run to Mention this pagor wftm la rltlng,
CON ti VIV 4 fIQS 9 B MM}
Having no stockings to hang up, they stripe
THEIR LEGS,
ND LEAVE THE LAMP BURNING, SO SANTA CLAUS
CAN SEE THEM. WE HOPE HE WILL:—LIFE.
BACK-BLOCK DIPLOMACY.
He met me hear a lone bush town
(His gait was wild, his eyes were blear),
And heedless of my rising frown,
Said, as he dropped a “ xxx ” tear ;
“ Shay, mishter ! will yer giv’sh a shprat
Ter ged a pint o’ beer ?”
“ No, not a cent to sink in drink"
In voice of firm resolve I said;
“ Too much of that vile stuff, I think,
Already down your throat has sped.”
“ Then, mishter,” said he, “ giv’sh a shprat
To ged a loaf o’ bread,"


Business Announcements.
EPPS’S
Grateful —Comforting
COCOA
Medics!.
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured I
Ibe Greatest Success \
of Modern Times. /
CONSULT
/ All Chronic Disease
\ are Curable.
Hr, S. E. inSUUn, Couiltiv Eclectic,
ffim.T.MP Spmialist fob all Chronic Disxasxs,
C| WIiILUH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call ean write for a list of ques-
tions (fbm) by whiob they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Hr. Kugelmann’a treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. It
rou are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
ebtaln a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
oomplete cure. Tou can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
° 3 Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands morel
[COPT.]
Glenhope, 19th July 18881
fe H. K. KcaiLMAtra, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that 1, Frank E. B. Knight,
Of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1888, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. 1 then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to oom-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
(or five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 16 months was poison.
then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
Reotorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
mgs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
•kin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand j
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very Last.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) 1
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as bard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. B.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
IT ill Consultations Free. M
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost 1b incurred In the event of Ouu
HOF BBIN9 BFFBOTKD.
fJIO SUFFERERS.
CONSULT PERSONALLY OR BY LRTTIB
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASES,
x :x—-
THEY Treat and Cure all Ohbonio, Nervous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE.
X :x
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FBEE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all oasts,
x ;x
S.B.— Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely packed, to all parts of the Colonies.
Note the Address :
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary,
132 Elizabeth Stmt, Evde Park, Sjitij.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
&nd all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established Agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted In four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 53 Sydney Arcade.
Hope for the DEAF.— Nicholson’s Patentk d
Artificial Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages.
The most astonishing cures have been effected. Send for
132 P B Sfed illustrated book containing “ Essay on Deaf
ness ,” illustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers
letters from Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, etc., who have
een cured by these Drums, and who recommend them.—
Hf. NICHOLSON, 65 William Street, MELBOURNE.
0-3=3 -A-3ST:D t HOTEL,
", OOBKBB Of
MART AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
r
tOSCROVS
1
n
ill
mu
-t
Ladies* Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon's Hotel)
Pbofbuibxss.
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
ŧ
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
F
OR PRIVATE USB is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price —Single Razor,
10s. 6d.; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, Potosl Hair Cutting Saloon,
Nine Haircutters always Employed!
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
9
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS Sc FACTOR
IMHUIiJ® OTJSHIONS, &0. 8 MADE ON THE PREMISES.
®M Tables re-fltted by our swn mesa.
mmm , ©WIS.IASLi is stock, ais© GEICKET, LAWN TENNIS ft l@Wm
BUEROEGHES & WATTS,
Is Ji togs Stnetg mmi% i.E.Io S asi Soho SqnuOg SHWE
C!l©.r©n.d.on. jHlotel,
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
4 T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, eta, are
A. served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
llnner, you can enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country j
\ere also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can o? <jibly make one
lomfortable can be found at this really flrst-clasa hotel. Fishing and Picnic art! 3 ir* vided. Table
It HtU at 1 o'clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
rlaltora comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
LEA & PERRIN S'SAUCE
AUC
V PtPRi
Jn consequence of Imitations of THE : WORCESTERSHIRE
SA{f(JEwhich are 'calculated_ to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers tee that the Label on _ every bottU
without xvhich no i bottle of the ■ original. WORCESTEJtSBIRE
SAUCEfs genuine,
fi.sk for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce,'and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper Wholesale 'and for Export by the) Proprietors, Worcester ;* Crosse and
Blackwell, London, (r'c., Grc.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
bears their Signature thus—
j. •
LIOHTNER & EILBURN,
318 a GEOE6E STEBET, SYDNEY,
Photographic m Stock m Importers,
late Licit to er A Co,, 32 O'Connell Street,
X lOHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission into partnership of Mr. D. C. KILBURN, and removal into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET, Between
Hunteb Street and the General Post Office— trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage In the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavous to still deserve their
kind attention in the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
3IBA GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Assurance Companies.
Till AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAUS-
MINT ASSURANCE uA INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
PUKNnM bf Aot of Farllamwl, IV Tlln
Ho. IB.)
Registered Capital m M M A 1,111,111
Paid-up and Subscribed M m AII,III
Sir HOWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman,
ARTHUR BLAOKBT, Bid., V.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company reeelyea deposits at the lollowinc
rates of interest
lor 8 years T per cent.
Ter 8 months t per cent.
■(■•a nl | “maem 1101
Mi g " mi i m
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on Its entire real and personal
property, Including Its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards,
Loans granted on Mortgage lor fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONET ADVANCED FOB BUILDING)
PURPOSES.
■states Managed. Bents, etc., Collected,
■states Bub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Head obiioi-ii, jTiihuntbr STREET
JNoToT NBILD, Manages.
Hotels.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
COMLEY’S HOTEL,
EMU PARK,
ROCKHAMPTON.
ERED. OOMLEY, Proprietor.
Acknowledged the finest hotel on
the Coast. Overlooking the Bay, with
every convenience. Dining Hall BO x 40.
Conveyance meets Every Train.
JMPERIAL HOTEL
EMU PARK,
William Toon ... Proprietor.
This First-class Hotel, close to Beach, has every
accommodation. Shower and Plunge Bath. Good
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits only Stocked. WILLIAM TOON.
PRINCE OF WALE S’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street East.
This Well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every Convenience. Centrally
situated.
■SUBIa MBS iIISUNSMBth
K'ng’s V'ews
Of SYDNEY,
JBNOLAN OAVES, BLUB MOUNTAINS,
&o, f &0.,
315 BUMS 51., Batina Statst-si, I 6,P 0,
TATTBRBALL’B
IDlim COISULTITIOII
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars sea
"Town and Country Journal," also Brevities In
“ Evening News." Address, “ TattersaU’s," oare
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(From Faria)
Ladies' and Gentlemen's
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair,
NOTE THE ADDRESS —
06 ELIZABETH STREET
(i few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial
MELBOURNE.
JHOR BALE.—Two grand Water Frontage
***** 0m K " ,m -


WESTERN AUSTRALIA: The Coming Colony.
C& NOW is the time to invest your FEW POUNDS ISA
US' TO EKAP very shortly your THOUSANDS. "St
The eyes rf the World a~e row on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where recent rich discoveries of GOLD, COAL, SILVER, TIN, and othsr minerals have be°n made, and with
RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT (a certainty ) it may, with truth, be said, “AT LAST SHE MOVES!” BE WISE IN TIME! Call on the W. A. Agents (G. W. DENT & CO.», ard
secure an allatment hi or near the CIT V OE PERTH or PORT OF ALBANY, while you can get in ALMOST GIVEN TO YOU. Numerous Prorct'es for S Je to suit LARGE and SMALL
buyer?, SYNDICATES, &0., from 410 to 420,000. WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
119 a ElizaToettx Street, S37'd.rae3r.
£5O reward £5O
FRAUD & DECEIT.
In order to protect the people from
being defrauded and cheated, the
American Hop Bitters Company offers
the above Reward for the arrest and
conviction of any person or persons
refilling the American Hop Bitters
Company’s bottles, and for selling any
vile nostrum or compound as the
genuine and original Dr. Soule’s Ameri-
can Hop Bitters, or for counterfeiting
the Company’s Label—a Bunch of
Green Hops on a White Label, with
Black Letters.
DR. SOULE’S
AMERICAN
HOP ♦ BITTERS
(A MEDICINE, NOT A DRINK).
CONTAINS
BOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE,
DANDELION.
Avd tbi Purist and Best Medical Qualities or
all othib Bitters.
they curb
All Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Kidneys and Urinary Organs, Nervousness, Sleepless-
ness, Female Complaints and Drunkenness.
THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS!!!
of testimonials of the most wonderful cures, volun-
iirilv sent us, we do not publish them, as they do not
make the cure. It is our medicine, Dr. Snule I
American Hop Bitters, that makes the cure. It has
never failed and never can. We will give refcrencs
to any one for any disease similar to their own if
desired, or will refer to any neighbor, as there is not
a neighborhood in the known world but can show its
cures by Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters.
NO OTHER GENUINE. TAKE NO OTHER.
Mr Tailor, ’’ 164 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him Suit* to measure for £8 Be.
Stork Cattlk fob Salk —lOOO male and 2000
mixed. F Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
Everybody says—and what everybody sayi must be true
—that Pemell’e Snow-whim Pamnt Rou.en Fiona Is bb»
heat In the market
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilc-
ken’s Besconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B. —Only two hours from Melbourne.
Bona fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
given for all kinds of Gent.’* Left-off Clothing.
Dress suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Rcssell-street Melbour
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
PETTY S FAMILY HOTEL, York Street, Sydney.
i : y
tsr LETTERS AND TELEGRAMS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
AUSTRALIAN
Mutual Frontal Society.
ESTABLISH BID 1849.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
J P. ABBOTT, Esq , M.P., Chairman.
JAS R. HILL Esq , Deputy Chairman.
J T. WALKER. E q.
JOHN ARTBUR, Esq.
THOS. LIT PLE JOHN, Eq.
JAMES THOMSON. E q.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Actuary :
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I A.
Secretary ;
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
Chief Medical Officer: JAMESC. COX. M.D.
The Society is now in its forty-first year, ani is
the only Australian Life Office wh
ANXIIAII BONUSES
Policies in Force, ever
Sum assured (with Bonnes) over
Accumulated Funds nearly ...
Annual Income
Cash Bonuses Divi led
Cash Botu', fer one year, 1887
ch gives
8(1,000
£33 000,000
£R, 000,000
£1 500,000
£3 250,000
£357,000
Policies are NOT FORFEI FED if the Surrecdcr
Value is sufficient to pay one Pn mi am.
:
r
Y&N
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets 1 have tried."
(Signed) Marie Rote.
&
11 >
PATENT
Diagonal Seas Corset
Will not split in the Seams nor
tear In the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Yft N
Corset stamped “ YftN Patent
DlifOnil Seam Corset, No. HO," in oval.
Three Qold Medals 11
■old by ill Dr.pen and Ladle* Oolfltten
V
ATIONAL CLUB.
The COMMITTEE desire to announcs that the
NATIONAL CLUB h»s now been formed as a
POLITICAL a d SOCIAL CLUB, in strict con-
nection with, and drtimed to promote the oljeots
of the PROTECTIONIST PARTV, The oily
Persona elidible for admisf ion are those wl o profess
PROTECTIVE PRINCIPLES The following
L : st gives the Names of the Officers, win were
elected at a General Meeting of Members held on
the 13 ,h instant : -
President:
HON. W. MACLEAY, M L C.
V’ce Presidents :
HON. E. BARTON. M L C.
WALTER LAMB. Esq.
W. E ABBOTT, Esq.
H. C. WHITE. E q.
Trustees :
HON. F. B. SUTTOR | DR J. C. COX.
Auditors :
J. P. WRIGHT, | R SANDS, Esq.
Committee;
LF. Heydon, Esq. N. F. Giblin, Esq
W. H. Armstrong. Eeq. M. C. Cowllsbaw, E q.
” " J. Be V. Limb, Kiq.
Alex. Mari-in, Esq.
J Arthur, E»q.
J. Newton, E?q.
M. J. Hammond, E q.
W. Henderson, Eq
C. B, Lowe, E«q.
T. F. Waller. Esq.
G Wallace. Eq.
T. Davis, Esq.
G. M’Evoy, E q.
Bankers :
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
The List of Original Members has not yet been
closed.
Persons desirous of joining can obtain full par-
ticulars on application to Edwin J. Welch, Act-
ing Secretary, 3, TattersalTs Chambers, Sydney.
COLUMBIA. RTNKING COMPANY.
ROCKHAMPTON.
Applications will be received by the Under-
signed until TUESDAY, March 19 )h, 1889, for
the office of Manager, comnetent to instruct and
give exhibitions in Roller Skating. Applications
must ba accompanied with references as to char-
acter and qualifications. Salaiy, £5 per week.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS, Chairman.
r
O R
LONDON
FOR MAY WOOL SALES.
The favourite regu’ar Trader,
ABERGELDIE,
1152 tom register,
A. LEVIE, Commande-,
having deadweight on board and large engage-
ments, will hare quick despatch.
This vers 1 has been rocoporred and reclasaed at
Lloyd’o for II years.
METCAI.FBAND CO.
WOOL RECEIVED AT CENTRAL WHARF.
AT the Federal Help rtnrrp»oy, WANTED,
Gen-ral S rvants, Cot k«, Nurte', H'.use-
m»iJr, &r.
O' m'ortable Waiting-rcorn pr t vid< d.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free cf Charge.
Offic’s : 72 EVzibeth street, near Hunter-
J. STRAFFORD DIXON,
Secretary.
U B LIC
NOTICE,
To »he
LICENSED VICTUALLERS, BREWEE-S,
and
GENERAL BUSINESS MEN
of Sydney.
LEONARD GWYN
has the pleasure to inform He Friends and the
General Pub ic that he has comnr enot d Business as
flat-1 ill rsmnl tons Eroku,
and trus's to merit a share of their support. It
la his intention to sell all classes of Businesses on
COMMISSION ONLY
He also whhes to draw the attention of bis
future clients tr tie fact that NO CHARGE will
be made unless a sale is (fleeted, and in the event
of a sale being completed the charge will be
STRICTLY MODERATE.
8 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS
(First floo>),
PITT STREET.
N
ERY 0 U S
DEBILITY
Consult by letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addresied 41. stamped envelope, forward Advice
and his Medical Book Fbee. Address—
Herb RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P O , Sydney, N.S W.
Preliminary Announcement.
CONSUMPTION, ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS,
hoarseness, and all diseases of the throat
and lungs, cured without fail by a new remedy
made solely of Australian herbs. We prove its
powerful efficacy by allow inur you from one to
three bottles as a trial. Further particulars
and full terms of allowing trial medicine sent on
application. Address: HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
COMPANY, Tamworth, N.S.W.
N
ORTH QUEENSLAND AGENCY,
ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE,
adjoining
“ BOOOMERANG ” OFFICE.
Every information concerning land, mining, Ac.
given from thoroughly reliable, and specially-
seleoted Northern Correspondents.
Address : THE MANAGER.
The Princess of Wales’ Silver Wedding.
The South Australian Ladies' Gift.
AmoDg the silver wedding gifbi bo H.B.H. bhe
Princess of Wales, tlere may have been tome
mo-e costly bban that subscribed for by bhe ladif s
of Soubh Australia, bib cerbaioly there are n ne
more suibable or 1 kdy to prove moie attractive.
Custom pr. scribes that the tangible tokens of
cengratulablon on the twenty fifth antiversary of
a weddicg shou’d be o! silver, and this has been
borne in mind by the ladies’ committee, who were
determined that South Australia should not be the
only portion of the British dominions from which
coneralulations were not sent to H. R.H. Ii was
decided that the chef d'mivre should be a silver
casket, and the production of that and the other
accompanying gifts was left to the firm of Meter j
Stevenson Brothers, jewellers, of Bundle-street.
After nearly fix months’ labor the casket is
completed, and is certainly one of the most artist’c
specimens of silversmith’s art ever produced in
Australia. Elegant in design, of perfect work-
manship and chastely decorated, the casket stands
8ft 6ia high. It is designed in two liers, and
stands on four brightly burnished feet, the whole
being surmounted by emblematic figures of
Britannia and South Australia. The former
figure is reclining on a wheel and supports in one
hand the Union Jack, while the other wields a
trident. South Australia holds aloft bhe Australian
flag, wbijh, like the Union Jack, is appropriately
gilded, and in the other hand she holds a c irnuco-
pia from which are pouring fouh the productions
of the colony. The lower portion of the casket
proper, which is designed for the reception of the
jewellery accompanying it, is fiftec n inches high
nineteen inches broad, and nine inches deep,
nearly oval in shape, and all the turf ace is elabor
ately carved. The narrow ends are formed into a
triple roll, with graceful circular and moulded
columns at their inbersectiors These rest upon a
rich projecting bare, ornamented with leaves of
tropical plants, and are both elegant au 1 strong
A rch cornice surmounts the lower portion
ornamented ty a hat during frieze, relieved by
festoons of finite and fl .wers. Folding doors
ingeniously open to the front, revealing the
j swellery reposing on a white plmb ground on a
chamber with rich gold satin walls. Each doer is
formed in one panel artistically chased The left
door, illustrative of agriculture, depicts a field of
golden grain with the reaper at woik in it, and in
the distance the spire of a little church is seen
rising abeva a clamp of trees, the back ground
being formed by a r-»nge of fail’s sffording a
pleasing picture. On the right panel is produced
a charming and co-rect view of the Water-fall
Gully. The water dashing over the first fall is
cleverly typified, while any one who has been up
the pretty gully will recognise the dam b;low.
The upper portion of the casket is 15 : n hi 5 h Sin
wide and 5ia from frost to back. It also is fitted
with folding dxrs, which, open, show the English
shield mounted with rich gold sa‘ia and inscribed
in front as follows; ‘itra casket, made o f
Australian silver, together with the jewellery
made of South Australian rubies and gold, was
presented to HKH the Piiicess of Wales by
the ladies of South Australia, as a si yer wedding
gift. Adelaide, 1888 ” The doors of this portion
of the casket are ornamantei with ux panels
The two lower ones are filled in with baskets if
fruits and flowers, while representations of our
shipping interests occupy the left, and in a we’l-
executed panel on the r ght a group of goodl;
conditioned sheep grszing at their ease iod cates
another of our staple industries. Toe jewellery
looks remarkally well, aid whatever the com-
mercial value of the rubies may bo, set as they
have boen by Mees-s Stevenson Brothers, they
are bound to attract attention, and from an orna-
ment that even the Princess of W»lw maybe
proud to wear. It is claimed that thecatketis
the largest speei men of the silversmith’s ut that
has ever been produced In Australia It contains
no less than 2500 pieces or parts, end wt ighs nearly
500cz. The credit of originating the gift is due to
Sir Edwin Smith, but Messrs. Steveneon Brotheis,
who have given their services gratuitously, have
turned out a silver wedding gift which must prove
welcome to the royal recipient. The cost of the
whole is estimated at £1000.
la olden times the Maoris of N Z used
amb’rgris as a fire-kindler, being unaware of its
value. There is a place on the West Cjss*i of the
North Island from which the natives say some
years ago they excavated a deposit of this valuable
substance amounting to several tons and used it
all to cook fish with. A few months ago an
American wba’er found a lump worth £60f01
fl rating off the Caps Maria van Ditman, N Z.
Like the S.M. Herald, the Mackay
Standard got off a telling sub leader, fuT of con-
dolence and advice over the Mexican revolution
hoax, and, of com se, it is now hungering for the
head of the hoaxer cn a soup-plate. The
Standard, by the way, i j the fearless paper which
wound up a terrible onslaught on Gladstone over
the Soudan affair and the death of Gordon with
those memorable words: “We have employed
strong language, tut we were compelled to do so
If Mr. Gladstone feels hurt that is not our fault,
and if we have done him any wrong he knows his
remedy. The law court* of the Empire are open
to him ” The Grand OH Man did not dara to
brave the wrath of the Standard slugger any
further, but simply sat in bis ancestral hall and
wilted.
Sir Frederick Matthew Chief Jus-
tice of N.S.W,, has been elected a member of the
Carlton Club, Loudon. The “Carlton” is the
most Conservative club in England, and is said to
rule, in the Tory interest, the parliamentary elec-
tions of Great Britain. Some go so far as to say
that its members rule the Conservative Govern-
ment of the day. Sir Frederick has been closely
allied with Toryism all his life, the old Tory
family of the Darleys being well known in Dublin
during the past century. One of the Chief Jus-
tice’s blood relations —we believe his grandfather
—was High Sheriff of the City of Dahlia in the
year '98, when, as the song hath it, “ our troubles
were great.” and the same gentleman was Lord
Mayor of Dublin for the municipal year 1808 9;
while another blood relation—maternal grand-
father, we belbva —was High Sheriff in 1810 11.
Alderman Darley (of the old and rotten Corpora-
tion as O’Connell termed it) was an active police
magistrate in the eorly years which marked
O Connell’s struggles for Catholic emancipation.
Before him O'Connell bad been called upon to find
sureties of the perce for alleged sedition at public
meetings. Chi'f Justice Darley’s grandfather
narrowly escaped a baronetcy, as, in 1810 the year
of the jubilee of George III. and the year after
Darley held office, the Lord Mayor and High
Sheriff received baronetcies. Sir Frederick Dar-
ley'a elder brother is an Irish County Court
Judge, and be himself was called to the Irish Bar
in 1853, Sir Frederick has been about 30 years in
Sydney, but has made several trips to the old
country.


nows
fv EMBROCATION
w.
SOLO
A EVERYWHERE'
m
JJIBBLE & COMPANY.
«l«» WSitKKI
, i *NO ,
.in'*’ ÜBCORAT OK S-
-96 Caitiercash Street,
One /Pops from Kino Stekki,
B
B 0 U’S INJECTION,
hygienic, infallible & preservative.
Curb's promptly, without additional mean?, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
■' J . F a R R S! %
(Successor tibßrou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
J[.\
Weak Back, Pain and Weak-
ness across the Kidneys, Shooting
Pains through the Loins, Lack of
Strength and Activity, instantly re-
lieved and speedily cured by the new
process. Apply by letter, Box 1081,
G.P.0., Sydney
\jJ D
m
kjJBOWDEN
bowbehs
i
is**®
BOWDEN’S IKL OT BL,
Elizabeth Street (near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOSEPH C BilWilGN - - Proprietor
ON6 ’ S IMPERIAL HOTEL
I* . Toowoomba
Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
Downs First class A cc‘ mi mod .talon, Private
Suites, Firrt-clas« Sample R .oma.
Conveyance meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
AUSTRALIAN
Soliei Fiona Mill a Grain Stores,
GRANVILLE.
TO IT VTA \ ’C! Royal Patent Steel Roller
JDi\U ' » ij and Imperial Stone
can he obtained from principal TJ i A I A>,
Makers and Storekeepers in Syd- 1 JLI I JAi ’
• • ney and Country.
MILE PKODI j i: *twm i.f Sf«CK.
We are CASH BUY<• RS of Prime MILLING
IWHEAT in any Q lantioy.
Sy.hiey Office : 34 Pitl Street.
The]JAustra!ian’*Mercintilef,Loan land
::33 * G iarantee]Gompany, Limited. ia
NCORPORAT tSD UNDRR'’COMPANIB3 ACT, 1872.
CAPITAL ... ... £500,000.
Sydney Office;
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices —283, Collins Street E»st.
(next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advahc's upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of . Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all cissies of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able; by instalment* at very reasonable rates of in-
. terest. Bills discounted d&ily.
INTERE3 T ALLO WED ON DEPOSITS: *
3 months, 5 per cent. , ,
6 » •> »
, ,12 ~, 7 ~
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 mouths,
2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
- renewed, 2 per cent, 6 months, 1J per cent, .
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
£EED’S 4t M AGIO wE A L.”
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
Utocie and Poultry.
Extracts from Testimonials: —
G. S. Ybo, Eiq., Mularave Stud Farm, near Windsor :
*‘l tried toe ‘Magic Maal ’ on a hors a bad with worms
and he seems to be improving fast ”
Mr. H Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon: 11
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from ray cows, at
the same time k :,eping them in goad caudition.’’
Robt. A. Hill, Esq., Butterbone, Macquarie River; “I
Cried the ‘Magic Meal' on a horse which would not fatten,
and no whe ia in gra -.d condition. ... I consider it
of especial value, as it saves horse eed.”
Sold in Bags — 7lbs. 3s , Ufihs. ss. 6d., 56lbs.
18s. 6d , and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561b5., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A.. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Castleheaqh Street,
SYDNEY.
ROONE Y & Co.,
SAW-MILLERS,
limber Merchants. [team Joiners*
TuWNjsYILLE.
Largest stock of Oregon pine and
Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &c, in
Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery A speciality.
Country & Station Orders promptly despatched.
GBU. GBD GBD
dMUKE NOTHING BUT
t
ţ
The isst In the World.
WHOLMSAJbJS AOKNTB :
Mis Ssliiiiiili I !n„
83 OLARENOE STREET
Ifeflopfirtf
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
may be obtained in labelled tins or packets throughout the colony
BourheS 1
ELIOUME
TRAMS PAS S
EVERY FEW MINUTES
limuiil 11
PALACE HOTEL
I
3.'
K
M® V s
oe>£Mla®
mm
i
J.A.WILSON
PROPRIETOR
.G.W.CLARE
MANAGER j
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
is
- NOW OPEN
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Fixed Lavatory Basin, Hot and Cold Water, and Shampoo Spray.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted np in the most Luxurious Modern Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies.
KT TWO PASSENGER OTIS LIFTS
LADIES’ BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
Terns 11 MS SSW 2s. sd. per BH!
/ Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of
\ ping the ifubdc Itooius of toe Hotei.
t3T MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
UR AND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
§ HOTEL,
LAUICESTOa, TASMANIA.
■lt
m
XiV^/
MS
tiaiiiu*
Si iijt
-<»
iswmnSt
'* • A fi#» »'l«r . ?.♦. ■
*?wt***&ma^ w«aw
«
fci/ ft *>.
'■ ‘ '
mm
Mi IS ;J
4A ' *»O4M*.A
nEST-CLASS HO ixjwe,
?ims, friKh Liquors i Saraua Ginn a Smcialiti S, Sous. Ctisim fnmain.
A. TmuauSK .. - - - - Proprietor.
ftowlancb',
Maea^arOu
iW.a-.,.d-tdk»rp r.
A* been known lor nearly 5100
ft* Bjeaman hair; it ia warranted
uastowra are composed and which
g=a^aa. j aa
<*pjdi nji»o he had in a
GOLDEN COLOUR.
?micn. after great tune and trouble. has been especially pnßjauwdl torth* at® o*
Sfefldren and fair or |rev-hft)reci adults, Bte*a 3®, «dl.; fi. S tenlij fcoWtta, W** w> <»«* ‘
6d. and donblp '“bat «lze. "211*
HOWLANDS KALYDOR is * laeaiilnt and iramaMns
«a.B fan., luindi) and arms; it eradicates frookies, lam., sunbnru, wseroa
)H the skin, pimples, CBteaeoioiß eruptions. eta., and vrodnces a
/Xr ti r*ip - *f /v n
ROWLANDS ODONTO .U. -.** ~-
, jHI ,, , -,h- gupke ■>« n>» « lenynrfoi toaa'afcoe V ’-h* "*•
B*>WV.>K|)B' article* tf it fHMxoo IJardee, IboraJioiti. mod -MtaH e>
„ piepmnatiloia ftsr
redness and ronphneje
baantUb) and ftilcat*'
jy» mi>o avfasts decay,
vss M'*ier. foe
rtott* ->nae»
*j V S • tlsrpa ta


John Muggins was a gentleman
Who kept a barber’s shop ;
His soul soared o’er the shaving-can,
Abhorred the razor-strop.
Hla favourite subject “ Parliament,”
No matter what he did;
On “ going in ” bold John was bent,
So planked down forty “ quid.”
For shaving and for cutting now
He didn’t care one dump;
He nightly made a beastly row
On some outlying stump;
The people came from far and near,
Some cheered, but many chid.
And launched at him this bitter jeer—
“ You’ll drop your forty * quid.’ ”
At last came nomination-day;
John oped his mouth to spout,
A “ blucher ” hit him on the ear,
And put his wits to rout;
They lavished on him eggs unsound.
Much catfish, “doggies,” squid,
They pelted him with offal found
In rubbish-heaps, long hid.
They crowned his brows with wreaths of tripe,
Soft peaches went “ kerswosh
Around with russets, rotten ripe—
He spoke, they bellowed “Bosh ! ”
They battered him with lobster-tias,
Till bruised and Mind, he slid,
And covered with banana skins,
Bemoaned his forty “ quid,”
Game polling-day, and Muggins rose
tike ‘ 1 who’s this ” from the dust,
And proudly reared his damaged nose
O’er voters on the * : bust ”
In all his “ pubs ” the vulgar drove
In quarts their noses hid ;
He topped the poll, the other cove,
He dropped his forty “quid.”
Polling the Head and Heading the Poll.
A whites to Mdbbay’s Magazink, who was In
New York daring the late Presidential election,
asserts that the.D jmocratic party is “ dished ” for
• generation, while those who asserted that “Free-
trade was coming in the States ” have imagined a
vain thing. Tae writer, Mabtin J. GBIFFIN,
declares that it has been his duty to examine every
book and pamphle'i on political economy issued in
America during the last four years, and that he
has “no manner of doubt that the weight of
ability and influence has been largely on the side
of the Protectionists "
♦
In 18d7 the poor-rates collected in England
amounted to 8s 6J i per head of the population.
Thirty years of p osperity have altered all this,
however, and now every man, woman, and child
in England is taxed a i average sum of 10j. 61- per
annum to maintam the countless hordes of paupers
for whom there is no employment. It takes nearly
<516,000,000 yearly to provide bread and gruel and
stones to break for even a fraction of the penniless
myriads—She re-tlivj in garrets and dice on offal,
or have the key o* the street, or assault policemen
and break windows for the sake of getting a quiet
lodging in a g .ol, or drifo into slimy rivers and
are “ Found drowned ” —or else they die of starva-
tion in dingy shims and are reported by obtuse
coroners to have perished from “natural oaums”
or the “ visitati m of God ” This sort of visitation,
too, has its advantages. But for it the slams
would forget that there ever was such an institu-
tion as God.
The new d ley Ooff e Palace will cost,
for land and building, £115,000.
From Ist D c mber t > 16 :h Feb ;u ary 1166
cases of typhoi 1, with 136 deaths, occurred in
“ M irvell ms Sm 41 oourne, ”
The Viotoiaa Wesleyan Conference have
deciied to “pui the comether” on the V.R.O.
Spring Meeting The Bulletin regrets this, as
it had intended to try and see the next Melbourne
Cup.
Oat of 21 Chicago clergyman 19 believe
that there is a hell of some sort. The poorness of
their cash ccllec ions sometimes leads the remain*
ing two to imagine that it must be situated in
Onicago. —Exchange.
Victoria and N.S.W. are ones again even
in the cricket held, each colony now having 21
matches. Taese contests were commenced in
1856, when Victoria threw out a challenge to play
New South Wales for £sooa-side. Taere are a few
of the old players left, such as Gilbert, Hilliard,
and Lewis. Hilliard is still hale and hearty and
has witnessed every one of the 42 matches.
H M S. Swinger called lately at the island
of Wolla, where the oldest inhabitant and a few
other reliable authorities declared a vessel had
been wrecked some years before Id contained
800 Chinese, who were safely landed, fenced in a
paddock, and eaten up at the rate of three a day,
and the niggers, if they believe in a mil.eanium,
must have felt convinced it bad then boomed upon
them. “ The Caine.se must go ” was evidently the
watchword at Wolla.
A candidate for a mining electorate in Vic-
toria is reported to have taken the trouble to pro-
vide no less than 1000 duly qualified voters with
electors’ rights No doubt the £5O -it costs one
shilling to register in Victoria—has been wisely
spent. Tde wire-pullers in New South Wales go
one better than this. They have the rolls stuffed
with bogus names, votes for which are carefully
recorded at all the pol iug booth). In Yic.o.ia an
elector caanoo vote more ooaa once, a ; the elector’s
tight is stamped by the returaing-officer, to indi-
cate that it has been used.
The American lecturer, Mijor Dana,
tells a yarn, in the Centennial Magazine, about
an Indian footrace at Zenni town, where the
winner ran 26 milis in 1 hour and 25 minutes,
kicking a stick in front of him all tne uhij This
performance a fri and of his, General Bradley, of
Fort Wingate, discounts by assuring him that the
Indian bearers of his despatches often wholly
eclipsed it. If either of these gentlemen can pro-
duce a man who can run this distance on a
measured track inside 2 hours and 25 minutes,
with no stick to kick in front of him, a little for
tune is*theirs.
The earth appears to be getting desperately
scarce in America, and the builder is reaching
out to grasp the empty ak above in order to make
am for the want of elbow-room underneath. Near
Central Park, New York, there is a house which
uses to a height of 16 storeys, and blocks 10 and
1£ storeys high aye so common that it is no longer
b distinction to occupy the top room in on aof
them. And now the town of Minneapolis pro-
poses to raise a structure of 29 storeys, and when
flb falls the man who is getting a breath of fresh
n the roof will be fired right into the next
county and will have to walk back.
No wonder Uncle Abigail smarted a ban
with a sliding-scile of interest and commission. I
British mathematician has gone out o! his way
calculate the compound interest on one half-penn;
Invested in reliable securities in ohe year 1 of t
Christian era; and, despite the fact that the
were no halfpennies known at that period, he h
lost all his hair in demonstrating that the tota
result at the end of the present century wou
make up a globe of solid gold which would fill t
whole circ'e of the solar system and hang ou
500,000,000 of miles into the unsatisfactory vo
beyond. It makes ns mad to think that our r
mote ancestors did not invest a halfpenny at 6 p
cent in the days of Barabbas, and when we reoo
lect that there are lots of people on this earth wl
do not see a £5-aote once in a year we feel adc
tionally mad, for then we could have given
each man, woman, and child a globe of gol
84,000 times as large as this world, and hac
enough over to allow of us spending £500,000
day till we were older than Methusaleh woulc
have been even if he had lived a lot longer tha
he did. 7
A controversy has been raging In th
columns of a Sydney daily paper lately betwee
some nautical men. It seems that a sailing boa
sailing a race, was capsized, and the steamer fo
lowing the race did not go to its assistance
Toe owner of the sailing boat is wro.h at this
but the steamer people make a good defence
by showing that there were four or five boat
round the capsized boat, and that the steams
could have done no good if she had gone back
but would certainly have done harm, Grea
Scott 1 what are the Sydney sailing amateur
coming to when they want a steamer to go to thei
assistance 1 We can remember in the old time
one regatta when it blew so hard that the bona
fide fishermen, with their small sails, were afraic
to start for fear of being capsized and drowned
but the amateurs were not daunted, and the;
started alohough they had no steamer after them
It is no uncommon thing at Balmain regatta to
see four or five boats “in the drink ”at once; ant
a steamer going to theif aftistauce would do more
harm than good. A man Vho rushes into prin
because a loaded steamer dia not go back to pick
him up when he had boats round him, ought no
to go sailing at all. He ought to stop at home anc
nurse the baby, and keep himself out of the
draught for fear of cold.
For over 25 years Sir Maurice O'Rorke
has sat for the town of Onehunga in the N. Z
Parliament, and the old military pensioners settled
there vote for him with the unanimity with
which woodeny-minds are in the habit of voting
for established Institutions. Many a time and oft
has the O’Rorke’s seat been threatened but the
old hands have rallied and given him a substantia]
majority. At a recent election, when Mr. Frank
Lawry, an extremely popular man, contested a
seat with Sir Maurice, feeling ran high, and it was
said that a vote or two was bought on both sides.
However, when the numbers went up it was found
that Sir Maurice had j ust squeezed in. A few days
after an old pensioner waited on Mr. Lawry and
tendered him half a sovereign, "Here ye are, sir,”
said the free and independent, “ I tuk this from
one of yer committee to wote for yer, and strike
me, when I went inter the booth I meant to, but
I’ve woted for Sir Harris these 20 years and I’ve
got into the habit of wotin for him, so quite agen
my will, be force of habit like, I struck yer
name out. This ’ere half thick’un has been restin
heavy on me conscience as I didn’t earn it. Take
it, sir.” Lawry was terribly annoyed tho,t there
should have been anything approaching bribery
used on his behalf, but he was so tickled at the
old fellow’s honesty that he made him a present
of the coin.
When thab well-known and learned J asulb.
Father William Kelly, was in Melbourne the
other day, he told his audience, at a lecture which
ha gave in tha Hibarnlan Hall, a queer yarn about
himself. He said that on ona occasion a lady
called on him to come and sae her sick husband,
who was a Protestant. “ What doas he wait
wit ime ?” demanded tha Rev. William. "Well,
ha has been to hear you preach, sir, very often of
late,” was the reply. “He has a great admira-
tion of you, and it will do him good if you call and
sae him.” Father Kelly, who is an awfully good-
natured man, went and saw the sick heretic,
who was frantic with joy on each visit.
After soma time, during which Father Kelly
bad not seen his admirer, his reverence met
the wife in the street. He inquired how her hus-
band was. “ Oh, Father dear, he’s dead and
buried,” sorrowfully replied Mrs. Blank (who was
a Kerry woman). " I’m grieved to hear it,” said
Father K.; “ why didn’t you send for me before
he died ? ’ " Oh, bless your reverence,” said the
Kerry woman, “ before he died he recovered his
senses, and he wouldn't hear of you at all, at all."
A recent visitor to Lord Rosse’s big tele-
scope tells the following story. " While we
were signing our names in the visitors’ book I was
hauled up short by seeing the name "Ellery,”
Melbourne, amongst the latest signatures, and on
asking the gentleman in charge of the instruments
when the Victorian astronomer had been there he
replied, "D n the fellow! ho called the other
day and sent in his card, ‘Professor Ellery, F.R S.’
Lord Rosae being out I showed the fraud every-
thing here. Whan he was leaving he asked me
casually if I would change a cheque for £3O, as
they did not kno v him at the bank. I was only
too happy to do so, and also ordered Lord Rosse’s
carriage and had the scoundrel driven in style to
tho station When Lord Rosae returned and I
told him what had happened he proceeded to com-
pare the signature in the book with a genuine one
of Ellery’s. Of course there was as much differ-
ence between the two as there is between a
Centauri and a Limburger cheese. I had been
* had ’by an infernal sharper. Ellery hasn’t been
out of Melbourne for years If his representative
calls again he’ll see more stars in five seconds than
the big telescope could show him in five years.”
Henry Edward Aglncourt Hodges, the
new julge of the Victorian Supreme Court, has
been a singularly successful you eg man. He does
not appear to have been a success in the church.
Hodges, after he left Melbourne University,
became tutor in tha family of Chief Justice F.
Sttwell. Then he went into the Anglican
Ministry, but soon left it The next tha I was
known of him was that he was a young man
"about town ” —a kind of Bohemian. Ultimately
he tried the Bar and bound d tight into practice.
He is a keen logician and has a wondrous know-
ledge of cimmon Ivw; he has "cases” at hii
fingers’ends like the late Justice Fellows The
verv first time Hidges made his appearance in the
old Supreme Court-house in Latroue-stre-t ( n 73
or 74) he made an impression on the Full Court,
which was never effaced. The verdict of thi
genial Firebrace, then Clerk of Court, now Pr o-
thonotary, was, “Tnere’s a Ist in taatt vouog
man; he'll get ou I” And so he did. H*rttl-y
Williams (aovaiulge) took him bv the hand,
and wherever Wiliams appeared Hodges was
with him. When Williams went to the Bench
eight years ago lodges gob all bis business and
became a senior. He is at his best in argument in
banco. His addresses to juries appeal more to their
reason and common sense than to their passions
or prejudices and do not carry men away like the
polished orations of Dr. Madden or the caustic
and humorous deliverances of Purves. You
wouldn’t sit an hour in court to hear a speech from
Hodges. Neither is he a brilliant cross-examiner.
He tries to get out facts to work up afterwards.
Hodges will make a capital judge (we don’t mean
a hanging one) but why has Dr. Madden, who
Hodges’s senior at the Bar by 10 years, bee
passed over? It is known that Madden wou
accept the ermine were it offered to him. Hodge
married the daughter of a schoolmaster in Me
bourne. Some of the new Judge’s acquaintance
call him Henry the Fifth Agincourt Hodges
H. E A. H. will lose a couple of thousands a yea
by going on the Bench, but then what an opeuin
for promising juniors I Now is the flood-tide i
the fortunes of men like Bryant, Isaacs, Weigal
Agg, and Johnny Anderson,
A Murrumburrah (N.S.W.) man named
Barnes killed a rather large edition of the blac
snake species the other day, and noticing some
thing peculiar about the body he opened it an
found it contained a bullock’s horn, inside of whic
was a live rat. Barnes from the ’Burrah think
that the snake chased the rat into the horn, ant
to secure the rat it had to swallow the horn.
At the monthly meeting of the Sydney
Ministers’ Union, it was resolved that a deputa
tion from the Union confer with the board o
management of the Y.M.0.A., with a view to
devising measures for meeting and arresting the
evil of the increase of gambling. When bazaars
and raffles are put down, and the clergy cease to
gamble in land and silver-stock or take shares in
big “sweeps,” then the public may attempt to
mend their ways. Meantime—** those who live in
glass houses,” &c. '
Any morning at Sydney police-court,
before the portals are opened, a sprinkling o
ferrety-looking professional men may be seen
struggling with members of the great unwashed
for coigns of vantage in proximity to the doors.
They are solicitors of the Supreme Court oi
N.S.W., gentlemen by Act of Parliament. Af
soon as the doors open, the ferrety brotherhood
rush for the charge-sheet—a list of the offenders
to be tried and an account of the money in their
possession when arrested. The Bill Sikes who
has a fiver to his credit, and is “ in trouble ” for
kicking his “fowl” is at once pounced on
by 15 or 20 limbs of the law who by bare-
faced touting, endeavour to find such favour
in the culprit’s eye as will lead to ** a retainer
for the defence,” Poor Tim Smith, vagrant, with
a big “ nil ” after his name, receives no attention
from the forensic crew. The Bulletin learns
that this indecent conduct of the harpies of the
Legal profession was even more indecent when the
lawyers were admitted to the court before the
doors were opened to the public ; so bad indeed
was it that Mr. Abbott and other magistrates had
to clip their wings somewhat by excluding them
from the courts until they are opened for business.
Really “ the junior Bar ” should seriously con-
sider if it would not be more dignified on their
part to bribe a “ bobby ” who had the run of the
watchhouse for an advance copy of the charge-
sheet.
An English paper mentions that Mr. Ira
Paine, the famous American pistol shot, has been
demonstrating to a representative gathering of
Prussian officers the merits of a new American
revolver, now in use in the Russian army. The
writer of this paragraph met Paine at Auckland,
N.Z., some years ago, when he was “ doing ” the
colon’es as a trick rifle-shot. His feats were
simply remarkable, including the driving of a nail
at 30 yards and the shooting of an apple off the
head of an attendant. At the time we speak of
Charles Oeho Montrose, since dead, was the
editor of the Observer, and he made a wager
with the late W. S Pulford, buuness manager of
the paper, that he would “ stand fire ” in front of
the redoubtable Yankee. Montrose had been a
soldier in the Maori war, and particularly prided
himself on his military bearing, and we well re-
member him standing up on the stage at the
Theatre Royal, Auckland, with chest expanded
and toes turned out a la militaire, while Paine
deftly divided with a bullet an apple that he had
placedonhis organ of thought. Nothingthen would
satisfy Pulford but that he should next be experi-
mented on, and he took Montrose’s place on the
stage. Just as Paine pulled the trigger, however, he
straightened himself up, and the bullet furrowed
his skull, causing a dangerous wound and a serious
illness. Poor Pulford was never the same after-
ward i, and he was subsequently found dead under
a hedge. Pulford had been a police-cadet and a
detective in Victoria and Western Australia, and
many a hair-raising tale he could tell of skirmishes
with bushrangers and blacks. In his younger
days he had been a remarkably handsome man,
and was at one time the chosen squire of the
beauteous and giddy Lola Montez.
Above the eternal tempest's din In Cook’s
stormy straits is heard from Wellington (N.Z ) a
hoarse howl for the ruddy gore of one of the old
regime of Franca, with wails of wounded British
Colonial honour and dislocated dignity. Once
again in the whirligig of time the fowl of France,
perched on the British Lion’s head, spurs him in
the ear and crows the shrill vaunt of victory and
derision. Count Jeff Dabbon, Hon. George
Fisher’s antagonist, and N.Z. Consul for France
bat we anticipate ! There are two gentlemen
at Wellington answering to the noble name of
Harris. There may bo more, but two only are
illustrious. One is the well-known Chantry
Harris, proprietor of the N.Z. Time.s, called by
himself the “Leading Morning Journal,’' by cold
cynics, “ the Misleading Mourning Jernal ”
Chantry is an excellent old creature, quite in-
nocuous, but wearing an aspect of saoh painful
pomposity and a manner of such voluminous dog-
matism that Bam bastes Furioao himself, behold-
ing them, would melt and gutter into his boots.
The other Harris “the Whifflor”—is an
artless child of nature with not enough
dignity to stock a lost dog, who relieves the
tedium of existence by wandering the streets
in company with a bullock’s liver and a
British General's cast-off uniform. The
Mayor of Wellington, a reformed Scotch-
man, tendered lately a banquet of haggis
to the British fleet under Admiral Fairfax Count
Dabbon, clothed ia the voluptuous splendours
oF a Consul of France, attended. Chantry, wh
dearlv lives a Leri, but would attempt to patron-
iz) Nehu inadaezzar, was also on hand, and,
attracted by the glittering garb of the gaudy
Gaul, and mistaking him for a British naval,
ranged alongside and said in his lofoisst and most
patronizing manner : “ Aw —hum ! pity more of
your Walls didn’t come ashore 1” “Pardon?
Ah ! I see; you mistake me wiz the officer of
Anvleterre ! Not so 1 Tam Consul of France!!”
Chantry dropped 15 degrees and retired.
Later, he befg d and obtained an intro-
duction to the Count. “Ah ! Mr. 'Arris/' said
Jeff, shill sore at being mis token for a mere English
loup de mer ; “ you are tho Mr. ’Arris, proprie-
terre of the Misleading Mourning Journal, I
presume.'* Chantry choked and then swelled and
swelled visibly. At last he burst out spluttering
"No, sir, no 11 am not proprietor of any mislead
ing journal! ” "A thousand pardons th
Whiff-lerre, then ? ” Chantry may recover, but
the local sawboneses say it will be a long job.
Dan. O’Connor ought to present the
electors of Armidale, N.S.W., with that "Vic-
thoria Cross ” for rejecting Givney, as he would
have been a most formidable rival to Dan. in the
* ‘ hull ” line. Dan s‘ ‘ idiosynchrathic characther-
Isthics” would sound small in comparison with
some of Givney’s originalities, For example in
his electioneering address he said that he was the
“ original-o’rator of Protection,” he pronounced
“deficit” in the klassikal Kikeronian style—
"defikit/’and he described two of the candidate*
as “ idatic and gigantic (the ‘ g’s ’ hard} frads.”
We read that a young Parisian, engaged
as one of the principals in a duel in the Bois de
Boulogne, threw down his pistol and bolted just
when the bloodshed would have commenced, pre-
suming either man was a decent shot at 30 paces.
Probably the young Parisian had reason to suspect
that the ether side meant mischief, upon the
strength of which suspicion he turned and fled.
This was true heroism—a splendid exhibition of
moral courage. Isn’t it in one of Robertson’s
comedies that a girl asks a languid warrior if he
didn’t feel frightened during a battle? “Awfully,”
is the answer. Then she inquires why he didn’t
run away. " Hadn’t pluck enough ; takes awfully
plucky fellar to run away,” says the languid war-
rior.
Mr. Frank Plxley, of the San Francisco
Argonaut, thus courteously delivers
cerning the Jackson-M’Auliffe prize-fight:—
Sentimental Gladstonians have pretended to be very
much shocked at an expression by the Marquis of Salisbury,
who styled Mr. Dadhabhai Naoroji, an Indian Parsee, c
“ black man.” As the Parsees are so designated in India,
and take pride in it, as it brings them certain political
advantages from being associated with the native races,
we presume the incident will not overthrow the Union-
Conservative party, although the Irish, under the leader-
ship of Parnell, would take pleasure in expressing their
sympathy for a race under the heel of British pereeoution.
The Irish are not especially sensitive in this direction,
unless when under political influences. The “dom’d
nagur ” is rather a political than a social term of reproach.
Of the marriages that have occurred in our country
between the white and the colored races—both African
and Asiatic—it most often happens that one of them is
Milesian. The Church of Rome is especially active in
pressing its missionary efforts in the direction of the
“ dark continent.” Its most fashionable oburoh at Wash-
ington, D. 0., and where the best music is supplied,Js a
coloured one, and presiding at the altar is a darkey. * Its
strongest effort at proselytism is among the African
contingent of the South. Against the prejudice of colour,
Ireland gave us most emphatic expression the other day
in a contest between a colored pugilist, black as the
ace of spades and powerful as the king of clubs, and an
Irishman, born to the sod and hod, with clover on his
teeth. Under the patronage of gentlemen, in a popular
ball, with the countenance of the police, the assent of the
press, and the approval of polite society, and, so far as we
knew, without the objection of pulpit, stock-board, social
club, priest, preacher, or i, this moat illegal and
blackguardly prize-fight was conducted to its brutal con-
clusion. Price of admission tickets, thirty dollars;
audience composed of our best merchants. We do not
feel at liberty to criticise this exhibition, since it has
received such universal endorsement, except than the
coloured man had our entire sympathy. First, because he
waa an African and not an Irishman; seoond, he does not
boast of being white, with only a skin for the justification
of his claim of superiority ; third, he was a stranger and,
especially entitled to our hospitality for having thrashed
one who violates the law and our peculiar ideas of morality,
decency, and good citizenship; fourth, because all our
gambling sp rts lost their money on the Pat, while as a
rale gentlemen bet for tb e odds and for a sentiment that
in its expression was unifoimly lor the “nigger” and
against “Mr. Muldoon, the solid man.” Now we hope
Mr. Peter Jacksoo, from Africa, will encounter Mr.
Sullivan, from Ireland, Mr. Mitchell, from England, and
Mr. Kilrain, also from the bogs, and whip them all in
quick succession, so that he may bear off the gold-stuffed
purse, the diamond-studded belt, the broken nose and
pummelled countenance that indicate the royalty of the
prize-ring. If blackguards and gamblers must have over
them a reigning monarch, they have our consent that he
should be a negro. We sincerely hope that the Queens-
berry rules that govern this manly art may not be so
changed as to permit a blow below the belt, for so long as
the darky’s shins and heels are protected from assault and
only his head exposed, there is no possibility of his
defeat.
Missing Relatives.
Inquieiks are made through Lloyd’s Weekly,
London, for the following persons :
Sarah Rippendalb left Lon dan for Australia, vis
Liverpool, five years ago, and last wrote from Brisbane
Her aunt anxiously inquires.
George Roxham went from Clophill, Bedfordshire, in
1884, to Melbourne. His mother, brother, and sister
write.
Samuel Smith left England in 1874. In 1875 he was at
Otago, N.Z. His sister Frances writes.
John Newton Steer went to Adelaide in 1874, not
heard from since 1875. His brother writes.
Annie Maria Taylor went to Auckland in 1883: in
1886 she was 90 miles up-country. Her parents seek news.
Henry and Elizabeth White were last heard from at
St. Leouaids, Sydney. Their parents seek them.
Emma Wilkins (Mrs. Garland) left Chepstow, Mon., in
1850-2. She was at Melbourne 22 years ago. Her brother
Henry writes.
George E. Alexander left Gravesend in 1863 for Aus-
tralia. In 1868 he was at Ballarat. His sister Caroline
seeks him.
George Bell, who wrote from Victoria mills 18 months
ago, is desired to write home by his mother.
Emma Augusta Clarke White) left Plymouth for
Australia in the Birmingham, Sept. 29, 1854. Her only
surviving sister, Jane, seeks her.
James Connew has not been heard of by his widowed-
mother since 1884. He went to N.Z. in 1857.
John Northmorb Corber went from Melton, Devon, to
Australia about 1865. Was in Queensland in 1874. His
brother George writes.
William Dewdnky or Emma Dewdney (now Mrs. Gard-
ner), formerly of B/ixton-hlll, were in Christchurch, N.Z.,
in 1885. Their eon James inquires.
Sarah Ellen Dyson left her parents’ home at Gilder-
some, Yorks., in 1883. Her father writes.
Henry Gilkes in Oct., 1854, was wrecked off Portland
Bay in the ship Constant. He afterwards “went to the
gold diggings.” His aged mother begs for news.
John Samuel Greenland, left London in the Rajah for
Sydney, N.S.W., in July, 1876. His parentis write.
Rudolph Guy a* went to Melbourne in 1852 in the Car-
natic, and last wrote from Forest Creek, Castlemaine, in
1856. His daughters seek tidings.
Henry Joseph Herd is asked to write to his aged
mother, who last heard of him as near Launceston, Tas-
mania.
Charles Jones was last heard of five years ago, 90
Elizabeth street. Hobart-town, Tasmania. His mother ie
anxious to hear of him.
Harry Kemp, who has been in Australia since 1873
wrote home to his mother on July 29, 1887. He then
gave h's address “ Care of Messrs. C. Kee and Co , Molton
Plains station,” and some place which the mother has
written like “ Wes'morinyle," Australia Her letter was
returned, marked “ Post town not known in Victoria.”
Mrs. Fred Murray (nee Canling) was last heard of at
Rollrston, Queensland, 11 years ago. Her father seeks
Edwin Owen, who was last heard from nearly two years
ago at the Langham Hotel, Wynyarl-square, Sydney,
begged t > write home to his mother,
Alfred Ogles went to Tasmania in the Gulf of Car-
pentaria in May, 1884 His mother is anxious for news.
Julia Ann Scanlon and Mary Jane Scanlon went
to Sydn-y in 1843-4. Tmir brother wishes for news.
Joseph Street left for Sydney in 1851, and from there
went 1 1 N.Z His mother asks
Eliza Tighb sailed tor Sydney in 1855 and list wrote
in 1879. Her daughter wiio.B
George Toakley ie inquired for by his daughter, wh«
last heard of him when in York, Western Australia.
N.B. —In writing care Editor Lloyd’s Weekly,
London, please mention The Bulletin.


Hotels.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MBIiBOUBI.
mm Raiiwat Terminus, Bpbnoib Stbutt.
WTIBITOBS patronising the Above hold. whlah
f hM Utely bad an Addition of over IN aooms,
xdli find aU modern Improvements, sash ai light,
lefty, nnd well-ventilated bedrooms, Urge pnblla-
vsom, smoking-room, hot And sold bAths, shower
Mid needle bAths pAssenger elevator, elestrie bells,
telephone, And All other hotel requisites, not to be
MupAssed In AnstralU. Visitors san rdf upon
being celled lor early morning trelns. Betters
end telegrams promptly Attended to. Prises very
moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner end Proprietor.
Medioal.
DR. SPEER’S
ssiMinAW DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
Pslween George rad Terk Streets.) P.O. Bex BIS. Drl
gjfeerl Is a regular Gradnated Physician, sdnsaled at
aemrd College, U.B. (for confirmation see Hew Isaland
GAsette. January list, 188 ft | alee New Sooth wales
gAsette, April ITth, 1888). the doctor has devoted U
fSATS 10 the Study of CHRONIC. NERVOUS. AND
SPECIAL DIBXAf KS. Poor of these were In the leading
hsspltals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all semdalnts with excellent results. AU applying to
will reoelve bis honest opinion of their complaints.
He experimenting) no Mercury used. He wIU guarantee
A positive sure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£3OO. His reason for doing so Is this—when there Is no
organic disease, rad nothing but an Inorganic trouble, or,
In other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
A certain result, there Is no reason why It cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
HO wishes It distinctly understood that he does not claim
IB perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
fee only to be a skUled and successful physician
thoroughly Informed ln° Us speciality—CHßONlC *m>
iffXOIAL
DISEASES
People
nMdlng at a distance can, by explaining their troubles In
■ at home. The course of treatment wIU
ilhn bo treated...
jMt In any way Interfere with their business.
and advice free to all. Chargesl moderate. H. J.
* MIVIUC ins Wl ml. wu.i S n| —■ —• -■
inn, M.D., AS Margaret Street, between George radTerk
Sydney. Post Office Box. No. 880. Office hours,
Streets, L,—
U a.m. to IS a.m. j Sto A and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
II to 11 A.m. only.
FREE
p&aa*; ■ufTiowa *n to
bo found In the “ EIGHT AND
BH , E,” fit the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DB-
SltlTY end Kindred Diseases. fcc. A copy of
Htfi book will be lent Free, sealed, for Sts Finny
ifcunpi. Address—
B. WARD fc 00..
Sydney Pharmacy,
Tl Hunter Strut Sydney.
■m fITIISMBRIO, MAGNETIC, and ELECTRIC
IWI INSTITUTE, 177 Liverpool street (facing
Hyde Park), Sydney, under the sole management
•IDS. St. VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
Clairvoyant of 29 years’ practice In Europe and
AwrfM, and 4 years Medical Adviser for the
Remedy Company. Aix Diseases
Ovbbd, chronic or otherwise, by a New Mode of
treatment peculiarly known to Dr. St. Vincent
tail, his motto being “ Nature cures Nature’s
ferny.” Cancers, Tumors, &0., painlessly and
grasltlvely cured, vlthout cutting, In from three to
Soar days. Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides him-
self in the only person known In the world
who will undertake to cure a Cancer of the
Mongne without Surgical Operations of tony kind;
la fact, the Doctor guarantees to cure All Diseases
incidental to suffering humanity, even prhen all
©the* treatment and advice has proved a failure,
gandlfl, the Doctor will undertake no case where
he cannot guarantee a complete cure. N.B.—
Where medicine Is used, Dr. Bt. Vincent dis-
penses his own. This Is a surety that you get
satiilM bat the genuine article. A Fact. —This
la the only Institution of Its kind In the World
where all Kinds of Cures are Effected with little
ws bo medicine.
Please Copy the Address—
DR. BT. VINCENT,
Iff Liverpool Street (facing Hyde Park), Sydney.
Eucalyptc Ou.*
-THE TREE OF LIFE
mi
Mr ffhe •mly Fa-* Eucalypte In the Werid,
AWARDED 1 Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. * irst Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Oolds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Snmarai also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
•la. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival fori Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Humours, and Skin Diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the 1, Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
lamed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
More the public for young children and aged
people. Also, makers of Lozenges
■os the Voice. Manufactory —Cootamcndba.
Sidney Wholesale Depot— 227 Elizabeth-bteeet.
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Bold Every-
where. Bttoare of Imitations.
tory Ointment^
Business Announcements.
(W
mew 9f
iSSOSi*-
mam
RCE S’
DNEY 1
JLajjgtUrV
Branch ;
678 GEORGE STREET,
BBIOKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitkens.)
rnO RUNHOLDBRS, FARMERS, AND
X OTHERS.
£60,000 to Land.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, N Pitt-
street, Sydney.
A 80VEEEIGH EEUED!
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tie
Dolobeux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure In a few days 1
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CUBE FOB BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H, A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George Street, Only .
JUST PUBLISH! D,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HTGIENIO
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable !■
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For Its Hygienic Rules are worth Its weight In
fold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
'ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBT,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Stdnkt Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ*
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
In advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sa e every Friday at
the office, George Street, or from the runners In
the street. m
ORIGINAL
T
BAKING
vtfW
%
GHs
WA
>?
AN
ONLY
UCHS
OBTAINED
FIRST CLASS AWARD
' ' OR *
HIGHEST otCREEOF MERIT
IStREBEST IMTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGHS
RCCEIVEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
PRIZEMEOAL
Manufactured byJames Chahnom
Harbour S t . Sydn e v
Sold by All UocersaDd&awkespsrt
Medical.
& WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
&
PATENT
PILLS.
%
V
Am BainsmUy ad-
mitted to b* worth
a Gaia®* a Box for
Bilims and Kerroos
Disorder* such as
Wind and Pain in th«
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills, Flashings
of Heat, Doss of Ap-
Sstite, Shortness of
reath, Oostireness,
Scarry and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Herrons and Tremb-
Ifcy?? Ssaefttions, Ac. Th* Sr it do** will fir# relief
tofeenty minute*. .
sufferer is earnestly mnted to try one
tyre shMMi FiUs and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
tamale* of all age* these Fill* are inralbable.
B 3 a few dose* of them carry oft all bumonre* and
fetes about all that i* required. No female ahould
t£3 wMbout them. There is no Medicine to be found
C«ps! to Beech am’* Pill* for removing any" obetruc-
irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
gfeig ts the directions given with each box, they
w® restore females of all agree to eosmd and
ge&Bsi health. This has been proved, by thousands
wlbs have tried them, and found the benefit* which
550 aaanred by their use.
jf®s a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Bteardsp* of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few do®** will be found to work wonder* on the moat
jaapertant organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
complexion, bring back the keen edge of
ap®sMt*, and arouse into action with the rosebud
cl health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
member* of all classes of society, and one of the
beet guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
B3GBO HAM’S PILLS have the Largett BaU »f ang
Patent Medicine in the World,
Beeoham’s Magic Cough Fills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Sreath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Whaeuing, Ac., these Fills stand unrivalled. They
arathcbeat ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty ef breathing, which nightly deprive the
aattest of rest. Let any person give BEK GUAM 1 8
TOUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will ia a short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Betall, by
fiba Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helesa, Lao-
sesMtb, England, in boxes Is. lid. and 2a. M. each,
gold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Sdealera everywhere.
SLS.—Full directions are given with M 6& &BK.
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Bbanohes :
B 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund... ... ... 500,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal i
throughout the United States of America
Canada, and can offer special facilities for
In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Oommert .
Travellers' Letters of Credit. SHZ..—«
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. 6IBLIN, Acting Manager.
gCIXNOB CONQUERS DISEASE I
The Snooessful Treatment ol
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
Ne Mom MERCURY ob othbb Nokioct
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Oh. M„ flto.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising In Australia wbe
held! the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, h*f
established the
“ ' iKMrian Progressive Medical Institute/
18. FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
let the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Net
vans Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fite, Spinal Complaints. Nervous
dead, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
dmptlons, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
at Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affeo
Hone, Genlto Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of tbe system. It matters not what yoni
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get tals
honest opinion of your complaint. If it Is curable, be
will tell yon so t U not, he will tell yon aleo, for he will
net undertake a case unless he le confident of effecting a
sore. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
/eon >‘T that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Batterers nan be treated equally well at a distance
H. 8.—1 wish It distinctly understood that 1 do not claim
to perform Impossibilities, or to have mlraonloue power
i rlalm only to be a skilled and successful Phyilolai
ibaronghly Informed In my speciality.
Note Address—
HOEEESEITE XEDICAL lISTITUIE
98, Fhndbbs Stbbw W., Mmbopbnb.
MF Me eontuetUm %eith any other MtdleeU JmtttuU in
Australia Box Sfiß, 8.f.0,
FOR SALE.—Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Oove Rivers. Apply
Bduktin Office.
Business Announcements.
Gfainess’s Extra Stoat.
rißßl QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
BOLB PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN BXHIBITIOII
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
Balchin, Johnston and Go.,
Oseuemitl Chambers, Bend-Street. Sydney
o
NUfACTURING HATTER
RGF
SI
KtfT
SYDNEY
•PORTERS OFAUTHE
fiEWEST SHAPES.
And ftt ALBERT STREET, BRIBBAMI,
RIDGES
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and Is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should geta supply
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
ft. STEPHENSON
has oa BAM—
WINE OASES, BREWERS’ OASES, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, ft WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CREESE VATS. CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, ItO.
COOPERAGE,
IBV KENT STREET, and ITt SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market Streeti.i
S.
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Makee«
296 PITT STREET.
t: ■
MAEQUBKS ON 8188.
BRCLLAS
BC<aVER£&
S
WIW
»f*jNiValrtA •»** U
•orerod, uidyow _
3. StTLLiVA#nfc
Ml G«orj»
TliteiMrifl HilL ted
SMoMm* Bi&w*
and* »•
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NBA*
AND WKLL."i
DBIKNABD’S Piotbei and MouiDIM
• ?99 Seorge street (opposite Royal
Hotel), Is "aknswiedged so be the Best and
Cheapest is Colonies. Photos., €mgravingfi«
&0., carefully stretched and noanted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts sot sdth sea! gold edges*
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
LI F B PBBSBBVATION
BI
Da. J. D. EtBWEttYN,
Specialist,
19 Eonbdaib Bsaaiv Babb, Maiaovilß
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, In-
discretions and other enervating influences with
|helr associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with adytM
on health, and leplete with f nimble and tan|lUi
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Oosj
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedf and
reliable suratlve treatment without the aid aB
quacks.
Price per mall Bs. Bd. (any colonial stamps). M
be bad of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
00., 4 A’Beckett Street West. Melbourne,


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON UADI
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30a. to 21a.
*49 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Near Tatteraall’a.)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather.
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
ear London fashions
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
Ksjsn
: I
mm 1
MASON BROTHERS,
(limited,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SIDJfEIf,
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELYIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. R. liARKIN
IHPOBTSB OP
Mr WINFS, SPIRITS, BE BBS &0., &>O, *M
George and Glpps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’a and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies fin wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
&T The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. tST All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Am and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
tST SEND FOR A PRICE LIST. 1?»
71BST-CLASS LADIES' SSTsTssim” ROOM and LAVAIOU,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hoedben & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED OATALOSUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S
Biacls Oil*
OB
EMBROCATION,
808
num.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Sants.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL. SYDNEY,
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GIRTH GAML
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SATO
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGA
and ae an EMBROCATION for BPRAINB.
CURBS, STIFF
MENTS.
JOINTS and ENLARGE*
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co,, 185 Elisabeth
Street, Bedfern.
Wholesale :
Elliott Bros., Australian Drag Co,, 8, HoBn—g
and Co., J. Brash, Son and Co., W. K. Si—pm
and Son, SB3 George Street, and Bote Bna,
Wynyard Square, Sydkbtj Sparks and Fewer,
Eagle Street, Bbibbanbj E. Flat ah—, Jmi h
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAI, T. 8., 33 Pitt Street,
PRICE ... Ss. 6d. Per B*tU
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OUTOOR.
There is not a country in the oiivliaed
the healing 1 virtues of these grand medicines have
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In ail the
ailments of humanity their benefioient action Is at
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for IM Me
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THBM. Saw
factored only at 78 Nxw Oxford -ax., London. OF Par-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Itfe.
If the address is not 528 Oxford-street; London, they an
spurious.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
▲X ZHB
Wertbeim
SEWIMQ MACHINE DEPOTS
THE
Wo/seley Sheep Shearing Machine
PASTOEALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointm«at»
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
iftEMTR i
T- S. 0-E3D3DBS ds Co_
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
B> NTON’S Silver * Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man's Watch. Made suitable for Hard Riding and Bough Wear and specialty
rated for the climate. Supercedes all other English Levers ever introduced into thie market*
TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY.
Wholesale Ageata:
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydnpf.
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Snbbev Vaivm, Wabhbrh, Gaskets &c,, to. Moulded to sbi Slue. Enbbes goods (os id post
Lists and Samples on Application.
WATCHES.
W2W
«r«
MM.
X ■:*.
R»£
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
liy
MT Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed,
J ; y
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horologleal art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring," hardened and tempered In form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s ” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.-S. A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Oases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay. '' rj
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “ No. 1 Size ” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of hnrploglc.l
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of Now South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust.-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constmotlTS genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers,
m
*
r
&
*
CHRONOGRAPH
£
0}
\
v
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,.
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY. ■
