

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
Sf2E
C?
S- s.side
Pfe.? Ss
y a
'-1 •-
•XTTO.& Beat Timekeepers in the World!
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and EIBST FRIZES at every International Exhibition where the, have competed.
of the American Waltham Watch Co celebrated Dreguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
S=: "*
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect Au<,trall< * “ tte most exquisite gem of horologieal
*«» Victoria, and South.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof..- txingaom.
Waltham Split Seconds Cheonogeaphs and Minute Recorders Pnemmiinri . in
M altham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to Si others d ° f constructlve genius..
M altham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
CHRONOGRAPH
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENCY,
■Pulldlngrs,
"W altliam
Bond Street, Sydney.
o
FFERthefohowirig PRIZES to the successful competitors who compile the most English thp WtAa 3\l9^n.HfS3jCt’ULl*CrS >
v/ PRIZE, Two Pounds (£2) ; THIRD PRIZE. One Pound (£1). P ln addition to the abovtFT TOry^l 1 ' 1 * he name , Australasia.” FIRST PRIZE, Five Pounds (£5l • SFCOTSTH
Children Under Fourteen Years of age— One 405., two 205,, four 10s., four ss. With each list a Sunu^^ap^V^lL™ lll be ?T en *¥ successful competitors from the words “Sunliiht Soan
the hst is the work of the child, and the name of the school at which the child attend.
BURROTIGHES & WATTS
(lokdon),
Billiard-Table Manufacturers,
~){—
All Requisites for the Game. ~
Also Lawn Texmis, Cricket & Football.
8 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
#
J
XJSE
Liebig COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
MARSHALL
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths
Gaskittb.es, Art & Medieval Metal Workers
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS ar WOOBEX WHEELS.
m use.
in
appliances.
ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
m
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS
IAILNOXIOUS INSECT
FLEAS.FLIES BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOG'
FOWLS OR OTHER
,i -
ANIMALS
sdf
dfs
dfs
FEITO N • CRIMWADE.HC®
-“MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVEEY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIBE, and Beware
ot the Numerous Imitations.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
£k
III!
*r -
DIXSON^SONS
our
*
*
o
o
33
X
0
Poo\
SIR ROGER
*v
O
y-
Q
mi
o
DIXSONS
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale In England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
HILL, CLARK & CO.,
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS,
STOCK: & STATION AGEUTS,
111 aYINGt unrivalled facilities for the Storage and Display of Wool, either in Bulk or Sample,
-I—L and having largely enjoyed the support of Wool-growers for so many years, appeal with every
confidence for & continuance of their clients’ favours. The season bids fair to be exceptionally good,
and prices realised will doubtless prove highly satisfactory to growers.
The SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
is each year proving increasingly attractive to English, Continental and American Manu-
facturers, who prefer making their purchases here at first hand. Should owners, however, desire it,
we are prepared to
SHIP TJUDEE LIBERAL CASS ADVASCE
to our Agents. For all wools offered but not sold merely a nominal charge is made.
Regular Sales held of Wool, Sheepskins, Marsupial Skins, Hides, Tallow, Leather, Grain,
and all Station Produce. Bi-weekly Sales of Stock at Homebush and Corporation Yards. •
Large and Extensive Paddock Accommodation at Homebush, Blacktown, and
Dubbo for both Sheep and Cattle.
All Consignments receive prompt and personal attention upon arrival. Way-Bills and all furthe r
information on application.
Wool Warehouses - CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Head Office, 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Branch Office at DUBBO
LEA& P E R RIN S' SA U C
fds
Jn tdffiquence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAZfCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the .Label
bears their Signature fhus~—
Os
without which no hottle of the, originalt WORCl!Sf£RSfflfiM
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask /cr LEA otuTPERKINS Sauce, and see Name* on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper, Wholesale and ~for Export %by the Proprietors, Worcester ; *-* Cross* and
BlacktOeU, Londonfjr*,-, bre. ; and by G roeers and Oilmen throughout the Wofld.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
“ Photographic Stock-Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
“Can’t B Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of C heap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he' “Can’t B Beat.”
Something New ! Something New !
The £2 Package, “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
Smolier’s Companion! ■»
containing the following:—
lib. Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacco
11b. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 1 H S Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigur-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Out Ruby,
American
i. A J
Jib. Long Cut, American
JS" Delivered Free at Redfern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent saved ! Note the address:
MICK SIMMONS
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarket, Sydney.
B.
RITTENBERG & CO.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarelic v St,, Wjnvard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings ,
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
PLORiDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, Junr.,
37 MAEKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
Year ending Year ending Year ending Year ending
Oct., 1885. Oct., 1886. Oct., 1887. Oct., 1888.
Subscribed capital .. £180,425 .. £350,000 .. £431,125 ~ £580,000
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 61,680 .. 120,000 .. 206,685 .. 251,015
Deposits Received .. 93,581 .. 261,500 .. 391,356 .. 1,123,949
Advances Marie ~ .. 123,248 . 247,840 .. 307,828 .. 625,826
Total Income .. 200,106 .. 451,085 .. 797,990 .. 2,048,951
Deposits received at following Rates :
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.
Special Terms for longer periods.
BRANCH.
To persons who desire to put by
small sums of uncertain amount,
and who wish to secure Interest
upon such sums at a Fair Rate, and for EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five per cent. PER Annum
upon their Dairy Balance.
Ample Funds for Borrowers. Terms Liberal.
X
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE,
£25 Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid oyer to their holders in
Cash. The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received
in October, 1885, £26 Is. 9d,, towards which sum they had con.
tributed only £l4 6s v at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 yearn,
-j : i-
Hon. John Himmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary.
t-=3gs£tfe=§
:
. * -
■*■'••13? v iii \ftft-''^ sa 22s?s33fei sQ*]* iBUi* - !-i i =';-.S' 5= =?l
_ • ( ,-- r. --i'.'.i tr»;i . ‘I
■;
I : : Si I! .;■ , ....,■ j 1! I s ,:,j
■ ' WfM-.
,i 1( —. “ , .... ;••; ;,ji j( || || i
*J|jL
i?':- -iiML
= i ; -7
■
the federal Coffee Palace.
——OOENEE OF
King and Collins Streets, Melbourne,
Containing Five Hundkkd and Sixty Rooms, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES OP ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished*
Special Dining Saloon for Ladies, sumptuously fmrdshed, vrilli Cuisine and Table Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL on GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Mdnu, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING & RECEPTION ROOMS.
Hot, Colei and. Slower BatHs.
Night Porter always in Attendance. Telegrams and Letters promptly attended to.
George Cohen - - • Manager.


The Bulletin
\ 01. 10--No. 487.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 24, 1889.
Price, 6d.
fds
A GREAT SURGEON—“ FITZ.”


The Bulletin
Tlifl National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors ; BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO„
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Hdlf-yearly ... ... 012 6
Quarterly 0 G G
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and aeknoteledge in the
“Correspondence " column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
'length, or sag 0000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But iva
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office T wenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 24, 1880.
Politics and Humanity.
As flagrant an instance of evil inconsistency
as the annals of Australian politics can show is
the attitude lately assumed by the New South
Wales Premier towards several of the great
questions of the time. His latest utterance
denounced the immorality of flogging. A
short time previously he openly doubted, if
he did not actually scout, the utility of
capital punishment. Before the execution
of Louisa Collins he said in Parliament and
as Premier that capital punishment did not
deter. He asserted last w 7 eek that flogging
is a “barbarous and unequal punishment.
Yet w r ith these words upon his lips he,
having the pow 7 er to make an immediate
effort to alter the law, allows these punish-
ments to be inflicted to gratify the brutal in-
stincts of an outworn law. If Sir Henry
Parkes felt strongly that lives w r ere being
sacrificed, and that men w ere flayed in vain—
nay, more, to evil issues—he would long since
have exerted himself to alter the Criminal
Code. He found time to bring in bills that
were vicious, bills that w r ere frivolous, bills
that no Parliament could seriously discuss,
bills, for instance, to re-name N.S. Wales and
build a State-house ; but, instead of doing
anything to lighten the burdens of suffering
humanity, to create a higher standard of
morality for the community, lie attitudinised
and posed as an apostle of “ sweetness and
light,” deterred from accomplishing his
desires by his unfavourable environments.
The truth may be that he now sees a tide of
new thought surgingbef ore him, that threatens
to sweep away the blood-stained gibbet and
knotted thongs. He is not sure whether the
threat would be fulfilled within the near
future; but in case it should, he, as is usual
with him in such cases, determines to be
carried in on the crest of the first wave.
# # *
In this fight between brutality and civil-
isation Parkes’ only question appears to be
—On which side is the majority 1 If the
answer to that is clear, Parkes will be bold.
If the question be —On which side will the
majority be marshalled in the near future I
he w 7 ill await future developments. When
this very Criminal Code was before the New
South Wales Legislative Assembly Parkes
was Premier, but he sat there night after
night never uttering one word against capital
punishment or the lash. On almost every
other question that came up for discussion
during his then term of office he spoke at
length, but on Sir Alfred Stephen’s Criminal
Code he remained almost completely silent.
During the progress of the Bill through
Committee there were fifteen divisions. On
ten of these Parkes did not vote at all, but
on the remaining five he took his place at
the head of big majorities. Many attempts
w 7 ere made to humanise the Code, but each
attempt was defeated by a large majority,
and with none of the minorities did Parkes
sit. He voted for capital punishment for
murder, making a majority of 38 against a
minority of three. He voted for capital
punishment for rape (even when the crime
was not of first degree), making a majority
of 46 against a minority of nine. He voted
for nothing and he spoke for nothing
which denoted the existence within him of
the humane sentiments he now avows.
His analysis of forces showed him where
majorities were going then, the same analyti-
cal skill shows him where they are going
now. When he (who now tells deputations
that he cannot interfere with so sacred a
tiling as the finding of a jury) took part in
soliciting a reprieve for the Mount Rennie
youths at the hands of his Parliamentary
rival’s Executive, his statement of his views
showed that it was not any humane senti-
ment which prompted him to act. He did
not say that the character of their trial was
a brand of shame on the judicature, or that
the law which consigned them to the gal-
lows was brutal, and that it would be the
duty of the Legislature to restrain judicial
zeal and to amend barbaric law. He left
the Judge his zeal, he left the law its gal-
lows, and solicited a reprieve solely on the
ground of what he called “ high public
policy.” He would cheat the gallows for
once, not because the characters of the
accuser and witnesses were unsatisfactory,
not because some of the prisoners were in-
adequately defended, not because the manner
and method of the judge were utterly un-
just, not because the law was the voice of
an illogical and barbarous revenge, but be-
cause, by hanging so many youths at one
time, the reputation of New South Wales
might be tarnished in the eyes of the world.
# * *
He would save life to suppress a bad ad-
vertisement. That is all his solicitation
meant. He was on precisely the same ground
as those other statesmen who would kill the
Soudanese for a “good advertisement.” The
whole thing in either case was the outcome
of a desire to look well in English eyes. To
look well at that time Parkes would have
reserved the rope. To look well a w hile be-
fore his fellow-politicians launched out on a
career of national murder and brigandage.
There was no humane sentiment at work
within the breast of any of them. So,
seemingly, it is now with the Premier when
lie calls flogging a “ barbarous and unequal ”
punishment. He has no sense of the real
point at issue. He is merely thinking of a
defeat to be averted or a victory to be won
by championing the new 7 cause.
* # *
The influence of an insincere and powerful
man chills those w hoaresincere. Had Premier
Parkes, acting on the belief with which he
says he is possessed, endeavoured to have
those beliefs placed on the statute-book,
instead of sitting idly by while the conserva-
tive and compact legal caste imposed their
ideas upon a bourgeois Parliament, the
spectacle w ould not have been presented of
the deliberate recommendation of a jury of
the people being flouted by the Executive of
the country at the instance of a lawyer
whose sentiments are at variance with the
spirit of civilisation,
# * *
Why do a jury add to their verdict a re-
commendation to mercy ? They are the
judges of facts throughout the entire case.
Does not the recommendation signify that
while they consider the culprit guilty, they do
not consider him guilty to the extent that
merits the fixed legal penalty ? If it does
not mean this, it has no sense. If it means
this it should affect that fixed legal penalty
in some way. But the Executive give effect
to the verdict and may reject the recommen-
dation. That is not trial by jury, but trial
by Judge. It is trial by jury as regards the
technical aspects of facts, but is not trial by
jury as regards the facts in their reality and
essence. If murder were divided into
degrees, as in more civilised countries,
jurors would have a clear course. As matters
stand they recommend to mercy and are
flouted. Next time, as when Constable Hird
was murdered, they may return a ver-
dict of manslaughter, although the Judge
tells them the deed, according to law 7 , is
murder and nought else. Had the jury in
Hird’s case thought that a recommendation
to mercy would have stood betw T een the cul-
prits and the gallow r s they would have fol-
io w r ed the Judge’s direction. But experience
w r as against this. They knew that legal
fossildom wmuld breath slaughter into the
ear of the Executive.
* * #
The jury who tried Hewart found him
technically guilty of the murder charged
against him, but found also that the facts of
the case proved the man to have been in a
state of oblivious frenzied irresponsibility.
The circumstances demanded the technical
verdict of guilty, but a full view of the facts
demanded that a line should be drawn be-
tweenamurder where malice wasabsent, where
premeditation w r as absent, and a murder such
as was charged against Louisa Collins,
where the jury were satisfied that malice,
premeditation, and all the accessories of
diabolical and deliberate design were pre-
sent. Hew 7 art’s jury tried to draw 7 the line
by strongly recommending the culprit to
mercy. That recommendation the Executive
disregarded—just as they disregarded the
jury’s recommendation in the case of Butt-
ner. Again, a jury’s merciful recommenda-
tion in the case of Morrison, found guilty
of murdering Constable Sutherland, has
just been disregarded, and Morrison has
been hanged. The system of disregarding
such recommendations is an infringement of
Democratic right, and is altogether at
variance with the axiom that the power of
the people shall, instead of being delegated,
be on all possible occasions exercised directly
by the people themselves. In N.S. Wales
murder-trials, jurors are placed between the
devil and the deep sea, They must violate the
law technically or in reality violate their rea-
son and humanity. A prisoner is tried by a
jury, but what is the use of that if the jury
be not allowed to determine how far he is
guilty ? What is the use of it if they be not
permitted to apportion his punishment ?
What is the use of it all if, when they say he
deserves mercy, another body of men who
may not have been at the trial at all, may sit
down elsewhere with closed doors and decree
that he shall have no mercy ? Trial by jury,
thanks to Lawyerdom, has degenerated into
a farce, both in civil and criminal cases.
The Distinguished Deadhead.
\VE all know the story of Lord Ullin’s Daughter.
That impetuous young female left the paternal
roof with a chieftain for the Highlands bound,
and, probably for clan reasons, left it clandestinely.
Stimulated by mountain dew and a thirst for
Highland blood, Lord Ullin summoned his re-
tainers, and, arming them with bell-mouthed flint-
lock blunderbusses, dirks, and detonating haggises,
gave chase and came up with the receding pair
on the shore of Loch Goyle. The lover did not
hesitate for one moment. Not for an instant did
the guilty impulse to stop and shed that angry old
man’s gore engage his mind. Before him was the
lake, perturbed by a violent storm and dangerous
to cross ; behind was her father, hung round with
claymores, death in his soul and the war-note of
the Slogan in his ears. Taking in the situation in
one comprehensive glance the chief of Ulva’s Isle
decided to push on further that night. Moved by
extraordinary circumstances he thereupon took a
step so unprecedented in Scottish history that
Thomas Campbell has set it up, for the amazement
of future generations, in undying song. He offered
the boatman “a silver pound” to row him o’er the
ferry ! Incredible as this may appear more of the
same kind follows. The boatman, presumably
Scotch also, said he would do it—not for money,
but for the bonny lady. There is nothing in the
narrative, however, to show that he didn’t take
the money, and the strong natural inference that
he did, lifts the story out of the domain of the
fabulous.
* # *
Well, they were drowned —the lot. There is no
mention of the boatman or the lover made, but it
is clear that they all went down together and
Lord Ullin was left lamenting Campbell
doesn’t specifically say for what, but presumably
for the death of his daughter. It must have
been only that, for if he had also known of the
total loss of the silver pound, he would have gone
raving mad on the spit. The legend is a sad one,
and it is consoling to know that nothing of that
kind ever happens now. In our days the course
of true love has been asphalted, so to speak, for
young persons of the social standing of Lord
Ullin’s daughter and the Chief of Ulva’s Isle.
They would find far greater facilities for getting
away from the irate parent, and could do it in a
manner far more select and less expensive. In
these days Loch Goyle would be spanned by an
iron railway-bridge, constructed by the combined
labour of thousands of poor devils who could not
afford the price of a ticket to go over it with when
it was finished. The lover would put himself in
communication with the Railway Commissioners
of those parts, before undertaking the elopement,
and get a signed order “ Pass Lord Ulva, young
lady, secretary, valet, thirty-two stag-hounds,
and four hundred and twenty trunks, first-
class.” Then, when the eventful time came,
the fond pair would find a saloon carriage ready
for them, with the footwarmers properly seen to,
and a posse of obsequious porters heading off the
paying public from it and hustling them into
cattle-trucks. The swain would not be called
upon to pay a silver pound or a red cent; the tax-
payers would see to that. Of course Lord Ullin
would get passes, too, for himself and his re-
tainers, if not a special train, but that would take-
some manipulating, and the lovers, having the
start, would evade pursuit.
# # #
The other day a paper was laid upon the table
of the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly showing the
number, and giving the names, of those whom that
province has delighted to honor without knowing
about it. All the Distinguished Visitors, who
have been cax-ted from end to end of the railway
lines at the expense of people who perhaps never
heard, and probably never wanted to hear, about
them, are here enumerated. A breathless country
may learn from this list, not only that Mr. John
Hughes exists, but that on the ground of being a
visitor from England he has been carried through
it free of charge. The perplexed bullocky, who
mops his perspiring brow with the red bandana of
commerce while he considers how to get Ins team
out of the bog, may find comfort in the passing
thought that, though his earnings are won with
the infinite toil and the earnest blasphemy of his
kind, part of them will minister to ease and
blessedness, as he has helped to defray the travel-
ling expenses of the Bishop of Rochester, and his
secretary, Mr. Parry. The begrimed coal-miner
who, when he has a chance to work at all, works
in a sloppy and rheumatic darkness where life is
shortened, and who may be prematurely cut off any
moment through a dividend-yielding economy in
the matter of props, will be inspired with a higher
idea of the dignity of labour when he becomes
aware that Lord Cranley, of the English House
of Lords, and Mr. Garland, his secretary, have
condescended to accept a share of his wages as a
contribution to the cost of their tour through “this
beastly country.” The starved-out selector, the
mortgaged householder, the miserable storekeeper,
will feel better after knowing that Dr. M‘Gregor
and the Reverend Mr. Lynd have probably come
to the conclusion that nowhere else in the world
are the working classes so contented and pro-
sperous as in N.S. Wales, after the gentlemen
named have glanced at it from a railway carriage
in which the same industrial classes have been
asses enough to let them travel on the cheap. The
squatter, mortgaged to the last shred of security,
who has seen his flocks perish of drought under an
implacable white sky, year after year and his hopes
die with them, will be cheered to know that,
although rain did not come for prayer, Principal
Rainy came without it and “touched” him, among
others, for a deadhead pass. All sorts and con-
ditions of men who toil and lead coarse, ignoble
lives into which comes no gladdening holiday,
will be gratified to hear that Captain Brausten,
a distinguished officer in the Dutch Navy, Mrs.
Aland, wife of a Queensland M.P.; Mrs. Black,
wife of a ditto M.L.C. ; Mr. Pechan and Mr.
Garniu, respectively Superintendent and Comp-
troller of Public Works in Tahiti; Mr. J. B.
Matthews, M.L.0., Fiji; Dr. Ruthland, Bava-
rian scientist, Mr. G. Peeschaur, scientist,
from Holland, Sir Somebody Something, “ex-Lord
Lieutenant of the County of Galway,” and quite
an army of rowing clubs, marines, Bengal colonels,
intercolonial bishops, English baronets and peers,
Presbyterian divines, and foreign truck generally,
have been enjoying themselves with that spon-
taniety which characterises enjoyment for which
someone else has to pay.
* # *
This thing should not be put up with by any
intelligent people. When the pressure of unjust
conditions forces soup-kitchens into phenomenal
activity, buttoned-up comfortableness protests
against it, because the working classes are being
pauperised. It is time the working classes should
take similar care lest the upper circles lose in self-
respect through living over-much on public
charity. The eleemosynary railway-pass is under-
mining the independence of the aristocracy and
bringing the Church down to the Outer. Domain
level. Ethically, the bar-loafer who cadges
a drink has a better defence to offer,
than the peer of the realm or pillar of the
church who cadges a railway-pass. The one
asks for a thing which he would pay for if
he could, the other does not care to pay for a thing
which he can obtain gratuitously if he be but mean
enough to beg for it. If any of these Distinguished
Personages tried to get his board and lodging with-
out payment from any private member of the
community he would be thrown out, or run in, or
both. What reason is there, then, that the whole
community should be called upon to pay his
travelling expenses ? What quid pro quo does a
Distinguished Visitor furnish for the direct money
loss we sustain through his use of our railways free
of charge ? What avails his distinction, even if we
happened to hear of it, to us who have to pay ?
What is there in the apoplectic Bombay officer of
literature, who continually kicks his black servant,
and ultimately dies of syncope, that he should have
the loan of us ? The spectacled savant who
has exhausted the German vocabulary in heaping
opprobrium on some other savant with different
views about the Oversoul, or who, from a fossil
bone, can construct a pterodactyl with a pedigree,
is well enough in his way —so long as he pays it.
The shovel-hatted boss ecelesiasticism on its last
legs which yet wears the gaiters of bygone im-
pressiveness we could almost forgive, for its so-
journ among us gives healthy amusement to our
youth, but the gate-money is overmuch for the
fun. The predatory peer in the light overcoat;
the superior grade of English visitor with a great
deal too much nose and no visible chin, who only
rouses himself from mental torpor sufficiently to
ejaculate “ Haw ! ” occasionally, and the pigtailed
Confucian of rank are not fair value to us at the
price. We want neither the chinless nor the
Chinese, nor the scientist, nor the lady of the
legislator, nor the footballer nor the brass band
contestant, nor any globe-trotter, be his name
Pickwick, or Noakes, cr Stokes, or Styles, or
Brown, or Robinson to come here on our account.
And when they come on their own, they should be
made to fork over, like anybody else.
* * *
There are men in the world whose presence
among us would be an honour and a gain, and
who would find hospitable sentiment in every
corner of the colonies. Russell Wallace,
Edison, Mark Twain, Henry George, Bret
Harte, Huxley, Pasteur, and some others whom
everybody knows, would deserve to have every
honour shown them in the public name. Anyone
of them could not be here for a week without all
the community knowing of it and being pleased
to know of it. But what claim on our good graces
have the travellers on the game of ‘ ! distinction ”
who are never heard of until an official list of their
names as users of free-passes is published ? There
are names in the return above alluded to which
are strange in the ears of most of us—names
that convey no thought save that we have
been “used.” The railways of Australia are not
such a brilliant success financially that we can
afford to burden them with such patronage.
Some of the lines have notoriously been con-
structed to secure the votes of interested members
and land-owners, and to get a decent average
return, biting economy in the salaries of under-
lings is practised, and, in some cases, excessive
freightage charged. Experts tell us that the N.S. W.
rolling-stock will soon have to be largely replaced
at an enormous cost. Isn’t it time we began to
suspend the free-list? Isn’t it time that all the
sight-seeing great, all the wealthy mendicants
were asked for contributions to. our exchequer in
the shape of fares ? A fieo for the thin equivalent
of such distinction as most of them have yielded !
If that was what we wanted, Patrick Flynn, the
distinguished maintenance-man, or Flash Ned,
the distinguished Ringer of the Western wool-
sheds, and the livid death-dealing terror of back-
block shanty-fights, could run a lot of them close
in an appeal for recognition of services rendered or
distinction conferred.
“Laissez Faire.”
This •is the cowardly policy of modernity ; the
policy of the comfortably-housed and well-fed, the
gross bourgeoisie, incapable of foregoing the savoury
morsels of a cheap and easy epicureanism
for the sake of an idea. It percolates like some
subtle poison throughout every section of society.
It oils and makes easy for the swallow, the snub
the tradesman receives from his patron. It helps
the parson to preach doctrines he does not believe,
the civil servant to become inured to the slings and
arrows of outrageous caprice on the part of his
superiors. Everywhere reigns supreme that de-
grading principle of “Laissez Faire,” with its
accompanying satellitish barbarisms of Callous-
ness, Apathy, Sensualism, and Indifference. The
most appalling malversations may take place in
the high departments of the Government; justice
may be treated after the manner men treat
a slum demirep ; corruption may sap every public
institution to the bone —what of it? “Laissez
faire,” butcher’s meat hasn’t risen, and there’s
still wine in the cellar. The sultry optimism of a
well-fed generation taints its blood and tinges its
vision like bile, but after another fashion. It
begins to look upon great deeds of real heroism
with weak wonder, or flat incredulity. The man
who suffers because liberty of person, or freedom
of speech, the privilege to go his own way to the
devil, or the right to fell others what he thinks of
them, appears to him a greater good than eating
pate dc foie gras with St. Peter in Paradise, is re-
garded as a lunatic with dangerous tendencies;
for the followers of “ Laissez Faire ” always look
very grave and put on their green spectacles when
they hear phrases that sound like “Altruism,”
“Devotion to Science,” “Devotion to Art,”
“Self-sacrifice for the sake of one’s fellows,”
“ Humanitarianism,” “Belief in aruddeal ” —all
these are silly and incomprehensible ■ shibboleths
to them. Little by little the heroic recedes to
the extreme verge of their mental horizon and a


great man is treated as rather a myth than other-
wise. “ Did we know as much of Socrates as we
know of Smith,” they snigger in their greasy
mental narrowness, “we should find that some-
body held his nose, and then Critias got a funnel,
and Plato, who pretends not to have been pre-
sent, poured the hemlock down his throat. ” The
S.M. Her alp is the organ of the “ Laissez Faire-
ists ”in Sydney. In the words of a writer in
Henry George's Standard, of each and every pro-
posal of reform the Herald says: “It is too much.”
When the reform lias been consummated it says :
“It is enough.” The clergyman of “Laissez
Faire-ism ” is a comfortable and eloquent gentle-
man who denounces everything that looks like
progress as “an’ism that haunts us.” Thus he
designates Land Nationalism, Socialism, Nihilism,
and every other “ism” which embodies in a
phrase a human dream of ideal freedom. There is
always a dim suspicion on the part of “Laissez
Faire ” of some hidden selfishness at the bottom of
every noble act, or else of some hidden lunacy in
the brain of the actor. William George Ward
was, like John Henry Newman, a great and noble
man with a nature to which a lie was an outrage.
When his opinions, logically carried to their con-
clusion, landed him in Rome, he openly embraced
the faith of Rome. The S.M. Herald thus dis-
courses thereupon
His —(Ward’s)— was a strong nature, and an honest;
but it was, with all its admirable qualities, ill-balanced,
and wanting that reserve of judgment that might have
saved it from proceedings which, condemned from all
sides, drove him from Oxford, from the Church of England,
and from the real future of the Oxford movement, into
the intense reaction of submission. Mr. Wilfred Ward’s
book will but deepen the regret which all men of thought
must feel that such a fine, lovable and influential character
should have been lost to the cause of spiritual liberty and
individual growth.
Here is the case of a man born with an intellect
that wants, and yearns for, religious guidance.
Logically, he enters the church that summarises
religious guidance. He could have done nothing
else. He _ acted truthfully, and with thorough
loyalty to his higher nature. What to him that he was
driven from Oxford, from the Church of England
that his action “was condemned on all sides” ? True
to himself lie sought only to express his idea in
his life. The journal of “ Laissez Faire-ism ”
regrets this. “Oh that such a man, so fine,
so lovable and influential should have been lost
to the cause of spiritual liberty and individual
growth.” Which means that Ward was not a
dilettante epicurean of elastic principles and torpid
mentality, that he was fool enough to have a
belief right or wrong, and to testify it in his life.
The “ Laissez Faireists ” are very impatient With
the people who anchor. They are very tolerant of
the people who drift. The S.M. Herald would
never object to Ward’s having a dozen beliefs or
a thousand ; but why, oh, why should he make all
this fuss about mere ideas ; why not wait, every-
thing cometh to him that waits ; why make an
avowal which results in being driven from the
Church of England, from Oxford, from Comfort,
from Fatness ? Why, indeed ? —because ideas are
greater, after all, than anything that ever sat in
a material shape at the most LucuLLUS-like ban-
quet, the savour of which tickled the nostrils of
the most artistic gourmet. Because ideas have
made the world move; it is upon ideas that
this modern material civilization has been built
up. An idea supported a Bruno in his burning, a
Galileo in his prison, Socrates when he quaffed
the hemlock, Rousseau in his isolation, Darwin
in his social ostracism, Wagner in his artistic
solitude, Comte in a sick chamber. Ideas have
fired men to action; and free states attest, the
wide world over, the falsity of “Laissez Faire.”
Ideas have been embodied in French Revolu-
tions through all the ages; the United States
of America have been built on ideas of national
freedom and national solidarity and cemented
with the blood of thousands poured out as
freely as water—for ideas. The Bulletin is
often charged by the fat and comfortable
press, whose mission it is to echo the plati-
tudes of the respectable “ Laissez Faireists ”
—who constitute what is euphemistically
called “ the right - thinking section of the
community”-—with being quixotic, revolutionary,
visionary, impracticable, and anything but
moderate. We admit it. We are not of the
cult of “Laissez Faire.” We oppose Plural
Voting, the Abolition of Juries, Capital Punish-
ment, Administration by Two Chambers, English-
imposed Governors —hence we are quixotic and
violent. When the prisoner shivers in the dock
on trial for his life, “ Laissez Faire ” says: “Let
him hang !” No matter the human emotion, the
feeling, the sympathy, the thirst for high action
and noble endeavour; all these are as naught.
“ Let things slide—l am fat, why should I worry
because somebody outside my personality has had
no breakfast ?” Yet, somehow, we cannot help
fancying that it is better to be outside in the cold
than inside, ladling turtle soup cheek by jowl with
the sultry White-waistcoat who embodies all the
selfishness, all the grossness, all the intolerance, all
the mental torpor and mental apathy and spiritual
indifference of “ Laissez Faire.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Australian Hero.
He isn’t born yet, the Australian hero. We have
waited for him for over a century ; we have from
time to time, constructed questionable heroes out
of clay and gilt them over and called them
Wentworth, Lang, Berry, Robertson; some of
us have gone even so far as to style the pseudo-
heroic Parkes an Australian hero. Notwith-
standing which he is still to come; and, all things
considered, we sometimes hope that he never will
come. The hero is a nuisance as soon as he is
dead. With a wonderful aptitude for making
mistakes, poor, frail, gregarious man speedily
loies sight of all the qualities that made his
hero heroic, and he pins his faith to the faults
and failings of his deity. He excuses caste-ism
m the name of Wentworth, intolerance in
that of Lang ; he apologises for Imperialism
by quoting the example of Berry, and he
finds for parochialism an excuse in the
example of Robertson. Dynasties are curses in-
flicted on men by heroes. Ai'istocracies are
crystallizations of hero-worship into linked op-
pressions long drawn out. Every nation in
■Europe groans under the progeny of men to whom
their countries were once so grateful for a service,
that they permitted the imposition of a strain of
Wood in the shape of a yoke to rest on their
shoulders for ever. _ The blood becomes water, the
brains degenerate into pulp, the warrior, by a
slow process of evolution, becomes the aristo-
cratic puppy of the present, and kings vitiate into
fashion-leading nincompoops. Mediocrity which
challenges no admiration, that merits no reward,
that beseeches no monument, is, after all, safer.
A Floquet is dull, a Carnot is distinguished
only by his office from the great crowd of the
undistinguished, but the slow wisdom and the
lack of brilliant ability on the part of these men
keep a great nation from pursuing a policy of
suicide. A Democracy is safer beneath the osten-
sible rule of that political figure-head who is
without dangerous genius, than when governed by
the giant intelligence of a Pericles or a Bona-
parte. In the ideal state the figure-head is only
a figure-head. The man dies, the office remains
and is filled speedily, without a hitch in the fulfil-
ment of the governing functions. Speaking
generally, in the American Civil War, all the
military genius was on the losing side ; all the
sentiment of right and justice,' on the side which
won despite bad generalship. We can do with-
out heroes, but we cannot do without public-
spirited citizens, and the callous indifference and
culpable apathy of the Australian people, are the
only things which permit and make possible the
demagogue, the tyrant, the political hero—and we
don’t want him !
The Professional Politician.
Whenever there is a proposal brought forward in
the New South Wales Legislature for the re-
muneration of members of Parliament, it is always
followed by a deal of cackling in the columns of
the Sydney press anent the “professional poli-
tician.” This depraved and degenerate wretch is
trotted out on each separate occasion and severely
pelted for the possession of a variety of mean and
mercenary motives which convict him unheard of
an appalling lack of patriotism. He is put on a
pedestal to be shied at, and the “ patriots ” who
serve their country for nothing—save what they
can make in a sub rosa fashion — are never
so happy as when contrasting their state
with his. Yet, after all, what does all this din
and pother amount to ? Point to a single name
m any Australian or European parliament that
is famed as being typical for statecraft and tell us
if it is not the name of a professional politi-
cian. No man can attain to distinction in any
calling without making it the business of his life.
The amateur in politics, as in art, is a humbug.
The men who manage to get elected to parliament
merely because they consider it incumbent upon
them to “serve their country” by unintelligent
voting upon important questions, which they have
neither studied or understood, simply to fulfil a
social function, are a nuisance and a pest. The
man who is filled with ambition to shine in
politics, who feels his vocation is in parlia-
ment, who has a genius for administration,
is a “ professional politician,” and that is the man
we want —paid or unpaid ; only, as it is extremely
unlikely that we shall ever get anything really
valuable for nothing, we will pay our members
of Parliament. The professional politician is the
only politician, after all—the rest are amateurs
and make-believes. Again, the professional poli-
tician is compelled always to be on the alert;
otherwise, his reputation suffers. He will take
care never to give the country a chance of ques-
tioning his raison d’etre. The moment there is a
sign of the country’s doing so, he brings forward a
measure which lifts him to the fore in the public
vision. Parkes is a professional politician,
and, thanks to Mr. Traill, he has seemingly
determined to mark the latter part of his
political career by so vigorous a reform as universal
suffrage. If this be not enough, the Old Parlia-
mentary Hand will soon be again at work, con-
structing a Bill of even more radical tendencies.
No matter from whom he plagiarised, why did
Parkes give New South Wales the Education
—because he is a ‘‘professional politician,”
and he had to do something vigorous or quit the
position. Why did he take so firm a stand on the
Chinese Restriction Act ’—because he is a “ pro-
fessional politician,” and he knew the country
demanded it, and he had either to take that stand
or leave. Why does he now speak so decidedly
about the desecration of Hyde Park, Sydney ?—
because he is a “professional politician,” and he
knows that he is only echoing a big popular senti-
ment. During the entire regime of Representative
Government we trust representation will be in-
trusted, therefore, chiefly, if not only to profes-
sional politicians.
Boulanger.
General Boulanger, about the most stagey actor
who ever struck heroic attitudes on the political
stage of France, has probably made his last ap-
pearance in a “ star ” character. For a while he
monopolised the limelight and was a prime
favourite with the “gods.” He was le brav
general on a big black horse. By degrees he
shifted out of the limelight’s focus, and his re-
peated efforts to catch the public eye became
grotesque. Popular applause grew fainter, and
Boulanger retired to London, where he was a
hideous failure. The question of “where does all
the money come from?” solemnly discussed in
Paris, was treated as a transparent joke in Eng-
land. Now, the always patent fact that Boul-
anger had recklessly embezzled the Army funds
is proven, and this sham patriot stands revealed
as a would-be king-maker, who dreamt of creating
another Empire under young Victor Napoleon,
a physical counterpart of his great-uncle, the
murderous Corsican. Boulanger’s burst-up,
accepted by _ the French people with ap-
parent equanimity, is a satisfactory answer
to artful Tories who would have us believe
that all Republics are doomed to be periodically
dominated by military adventurers and crushed
by coilps d’etat. Boulanger was for a while the
idol of a far more numerous army than Louis
Napoleon had at his back when he started his
tinsel despotism, but the General’s army was not
to be turned against the Republic. So with the
masses. While this swaggering fraud appeared to
be a possible instrument of revenge upon the Ger-
mans he commanded an enthusiastic following,
but when the war-fever had abated, Boulanger’s
everlasting manifestoes began to make them tired.
The French drank so freely of blood during the
Revolution that the generation of 1789 went rav-
ing mad. The national madness mellowed into
hysteria of an intermittent character, and the
bursts of hysteria have gradually diminished in
violence until now, after 18 years of peace, they
are promptly cured by the cold-water of common-
sense. Thirty years ago Boulanger, whose re-
putation for wisdom and valour is as bogus as was
Louis Napoleon’s, might have seized France for
whomsoever he chose. He would have been the
saviour of his country, the man of the century,
and a dozen other creations of the lively Gallic
fancy. To-day he is convicted of embezzlement
like an ordinary bank-clerk. Ah, bah! Boulanger—
which is an Anglo-French pun.
The Same Old Job.
From a minute written by the New South Wales
Cabinet many months ago :—
There can be but little doubt that much waste of public
money has been incurred by negligence or want of know-
ledge in giving Government advertisements to newspapers.
In every case, and in all departments of the Public Service,
the first thing to be considered is whether the newspaper
affords a medium of publicity for the advertisement, and
no other consideration should be allowed to have weight.
For general purposes, it is certain that both the morning
journals published in Sydney (the Herald and Telegraph)
and the Evening News afford this medium of publicity.
The same may be said, though with less certainty, of the
weekly papers (the Sydney Mail, the Town and Country
Journal, and the Tribune). Again, advertisements which
require publicity in one portion of the colony more than
in another may properly be given to any newspaper pos-
sessing an established circulation in that district. In the
Hunter River District, for example, the Maitland Mer-
cury probably affords a better medium than any other
newspaper. These circumstances may be fairly taken into
account when advertisements of a special character have
to be ordered. In no instance is any Government adver-
tisement to be given as a matter of favour or patronage,
or for any reason, whatever, apart from the ascertained
value of the medium of publicity which the newspaper
presents.— Henry Parses. Cabinet approve 6th Decem-
ber, 1887.
This minute was obviously prepared with a view
to afford a seeming justification for depriving
The Bulletin, the Australian Star (then
just. appearing on the horizon), and other Pro-
tectionist papers of a share of the Government
advertising. The Bulletin in this, as in all other
matters, has steered an absolutely independent
course, has not toadied to any-Minister or Under-
secretary for favours, and can now afford to tell
the awkward truth to the public. It will be
observed that the minute speaks of the Tribune as
a paper which supplies the necessary medium of
publicity for Government advertising. Now, as a
matter of fact, the- Tribune never, in the whole
course of its existence, had a tithe of The Bulle-
tin’s circulation in or out of New South Wales,
or one-hundredth part of its popularity or
influence, and it has, indeed, since the drafting of
the precious minute ceased publication. Yet the
moribund and now defunct paper was for years fed
with Government advertisements, and in one issue
had as much as worth. Parkes and Co., to
gratify their spleen, tabooed The Bulletin by
placing it outside the gilded circle of Government
patronage. Quite at variance with Parkes’ pro-
fessions in his minute is the subsidising of
the Centennial Magazine with numerous
and_ most expensive pages of advertisements.
It is, of course, utterly, incongruous to ad-
vertise for tenders for sewage-works in this
nicely - printed, well - meaning literary maga-
zine. It requires too great a stretch of the
imagination to conceive a horny - handed con-
tractor gingerly fingering its dainty pages to
see “ if there’s any jobs out.” But then, you see, the
Centennial Magazine’s editor is justnow Parkes’
white-headed boy, vice Charles Lyne, promoted.
Mr. Blackwell does violence to the nerves of the
public by printing the ridiculous, senile “ froggy-
sat-upon-a-loggy ’ doggerel of his venerable patron,
and ooincidently receives plenty of pap from the
Treasury. Dear, kind old Sir Henry ! But then
Sir Henry would tell you he didn’t do it. It was
“ the Hunder-Secretary.”
One of the worst enemies of Imperial Federation
is Premier Salisbury. He snubs Lord Rosebery
and all the cranks. Salisbury is the most sensible
Tory going on this planet. His sneer was over-
powering at Deakin, Berry and Griffith when
they tried to stuff him with Imperial Federation
at the London Colonial Conference. Rosebery is
trying now to fetch off another windbag con-
ference. Salisbury asks, in plain English,
“ What’s the good ?’’ Thirty years ago Disraeli
said it was no use thinking of retaining the Austra-
lian colonies much beyond this century. He pre-
tended to eat his words when Premier, after the
manner of Galileo recanting his heresy that the
world went round, when he muttered on his knees,
“It moves for all that.” Rosebery, Carnarvon,
Froude and Brassey think they can hitch their
backs against the revolving globe. Salisbury’s
commanding position enables him to take an eagle
view. His policy is to establish halfway houses
on the road to Colonial Independence. He would
stop it if he could, but sees he can’t. The young
lords may come and try to debauch us as
Governors. Salisbury knows it is a forlorn hope.
Says the Australian clerical organ, the Mel-
bourne Daily Telegraph, commenting on the
MAYBRiOK-case: —
We should deem it unwise to hang a dog on expert evi-
dence, and are not disposed to attach extreme importance
to it when it tells for the accused. The case throws into
bold relief the evils attending the infliction of the death-
penalty. Blunders have been made before, blunders may
he made ag’ain, and as, when the hangman has done his
work, reparation is impossible, all but the sternest are apt
to give play to the softer emotions, even though justice be
sacrificed.
The Bulletin has argued thus for years, but its
reasoning, curiously enough, leads it to a some-
what different conclusion to that implied, if not
stated, by the Melbourne scribe. “ Justice-,” in
the sense used by the latter means Vengeance ;
means that the Moloch of the law shall have its
blood-thirst slaked by a victim, even if there be
many reasonable doubts as to that victim’s guilt.
Justice, in our eyes, signifies the preservation of
human life while the slightest doubt remains as to
the guilt of the person on trial. Nay, more than
that, it imports that the offence, criminal when
exercised by the individual, cannot be moral when
performed by the community, and that the taking
of human life, in one case as in the other, is con-
trary to justice, opposed to the teachings of
philosophy, and subversive of national morality.
-—-
Some Melbourne heretics are sitting up waiting
for the local Harbour Trust to issue summonses
against that august sky-pilot, Rev. Doctor Bevan,
who has of late been emulating the lank sceptic,
Jos. Symes, and holding forth long and ponder-
ously on the local Queen’s wharf. As yet, how-
ever, the Trust has betrayed no disposition to
come down violently on the gaseous divine, and
a prominent member has even offered to assist at
the services by trawling with the nail-keg in the
hope of netting a few stray “ threepennies ” from
the congregated wharf-rats. At the time of the
Symes prosecution tremendous efforts were made
to assure the public that the atheist’s doctrines
were not allowed to influence the proceedings for
a moment; when Pastor Bevan is fined £7 or a
fortnight’s gaol somebody might be found to
accept this little fiction.
*
Dr. Hubbenet (Russian) who was Surgeon-
General in charge at Sebastopol during the Siege,
died lately, and has left his reminiscences. He
mentions that 200,000 Russian soldiers are buried
at Sebastopol. Rather, a large order. It is
thought to be something frightful that 8400
French soldiers should lie in the cemetery of La
Chammiere, Metz. No wonder Russia hates
England. It is noteworthy that the Crimean war
has turned out an entire triumph for Russia. She
has trampled on every condition imposed by the
English and French, and is now practically the
ally of France. England went into the Crimean
war merely as a catspaw of Napoleon 111., to
bolster him up on the French throne. The
first commandant at Sebastopol, in the Siege,
was the gallant Admiral Korniloff, who was
killed. To him succeeded Admiral Nachimofp,
knocked off, too, by an English shell. Dr.
Hubbenet mentions a saying of Nachimoff, “The
English and French could have marched into
Sebastopol after the Battle of the Alma, just like
walking off parade.” Todleben writes the same
in his “Memoirs,” and Kxnglake confirms it. A
delay of only a few days, by Raglan and St.
Arnaud, enabled Todleben, a mere chance
visitor, an engineer colonel, to improvise those
defences which necessitated the horribly disastrous
siege, ruining the backbone of the English army.
Truly lions led by asses ! Todleben was badly
wounded at Sebastopol, his life in danger, through
a shot on the left foot, but he lived to plan the
overthrow of Plevna. Directly after the Crimean
War, the Russians started their march to India,
by flinging 150,000 men upon the Caucasus. Dr.
Hubbenet brings out the horrors of war in an
appalling manner.
The other day a body of more or less old Victorian
identities had a pioneer's dinner somewhere down
South, at which a Mr. Hughes made the assertion
(and evidently believed it himself) that since 1851
“ Victoria had contributed £250,000,000 to the
material wealth of the world.” The assembled
identities cheered this fallacy with great furv.
\ ictoria had produced gold sufficient to make 25(1
millions of sovereigns, and a “quid” was their
idea of material wealth. It never occurred to
them that if every ounce of gold extant were sud-
denly dissolved into vapour the world would
be very little poorer, in fact. Material wealth,
forsooth ! At the recent raid upon the Field
Club, London, the police seized bone-counters
representing some thousands of pounds. Those
old Victorian identities might as well argue that
the manufacturer of the aforesaid counters had
contributed their money-equivalent to the wealth
of the world. Often and often, gamblers have
exchanged houses, lands, timber, or horses for
such miserable bone counters, their monetary
value, as tokens of this world’s goods, being
exactly equal to the number of sovereigns figured
upon them. With all due respect to the gold-
digger, a hard-working individual who generally
has his heart in the right place, we must still
maintain that he contributes no more to the solid
sum total of human happiness than does a bill-
discounter.
——♦
Millionaire Carnegie writes a cool sort of
article in the last North American Review on
Millionaires at large. They are to be encouraged
because such large donations have been given for
the public good, as the Girard College, Astor
Library, Stanford University, Lick Telescope,
Hopkins University, and Sam Tilden’s million
sterling for a new library in New York. But
against these must be set off the brutes who gave
nothing, and they are in a huge majority. Yet,
even if they all did it, the Millionaire is an animal
not to be encouraged. In no one of the instances
brought forward by Mr. Carnegie has the money
been applied to the best purpose. It ought never
to have gone into the Millionaire’s pocket at all,
but should have been naturally and beneficially
distributed among the toilers who made it.
“But,” says Carnegie, “they don’t found Uni-
versities and Libraries.” Well, they do better.
Whether they do or not, however, does not effect
the question. A man has a right to his own,
even if he wastes it —according to the gospel of
Carnegie and Co. Carnegie tools his four-in-
hand all over Great Britain, from John O’Groat’s
to Land’s End. We may call that wasting
money. Carnegie is not altogether a bad sorb
Read his capital book “Triumphant Democracy,”
proving that it is an absolute certainty that Eng-
land must follow the example of America and
France. He is an enthusiastic fellow-worker with
Labouchere and Bradlaugh in London, and
claims to be equally a citizen of England and the
United States. This is the right end of the stick
in Federation. Carnegie would be a Hyndman
if he was not so disgustingly rich.
Chamberlain says that the opponents in Lari la-
ment of the Royal Grants are “Nihilists.” Tins
is just like your renegade, all the world over.
Joe of Birmingham began as a Democrat and
Republican, and he is working round into as nice
a Tory as you could wish. All this is his game to
grasp the blue ribbon of the Premiership. We
are sorry there is no strongman in England to
spoil the plans of such a traitor as Joseph Cham-
berlain. He figures it out thus : “ Gladstone
will die soon. Mobley is not a man of the world,
and can never be Premier of England. Harting-
ton will drop in directly for the Dukedom of
Devonshire, and be politically nullified in
the House of Lords. Randolph Churchill
is too flighty. The game is in my hands
if I only, play my cards, handy-paiidy, sit-
ting on a rail, weighing and balancing.”" Look
out, you simulacrum! The Hour will bring the
Man. He will do the work you ought to have
done. The politician who looks to the next elec-
tion, as distinguished from the statesman who
looks to the next generation, was never better
exampled than in this oily and smug Chamber-
lain. Oh, yes—he’ll be Premier ! Nay, he will
be Lord Chamberlain. Shunt him into the
House of Lords, his proper place, this nail-making
snob. One can see through him like glass.
Success ! That is all. Premiership of England,
by hook or crook. He is thorough Brummagem
and misses a glorious chance.
Dear Bulletin, —Now here’s an idea. Form a
Republican Military Force in Australia, the
National Guard. The Imperialists would not dare
to put it down. The men would only be banded
together for national defence. Governments might
give them reasonable grants. The uniforms would
be very plain, infantry, cavalry, and artillery, as
in the United States, or Germany. None of the
nonsense in frippery wherewith' the Australian
militia and volunteers burlesque the English
soldier. We want an army that has taken no
oath or allegiance, because that is all humbug.
What is the use of holding out a premium to per-
jury? Two-thirds of the Australian militia are
Republicans. Queensland ought to bound up at
the notion. New South Wales follows suit, then
Victoria. We wouldn’t object to English officers
as instructors. If England refused to give us
rifles (which she wouldn’t) equally good ones could
be got from America—the Peabody-Martini, or
Springfield. Think over it, boys. It’s the right
thing. Just make a little beginning in the hottest
quarter, wherever that may be. Show them that
we mean it. Once set the snowball rolling.
Democratic clubs make a move.— Dingo.
The “ Manly Man ” was the title ot the
Rev. Browne’s sermon at a Melbourne church the
other Sunday. He will work down to “ The Par-
son ” at last, we presume.
Ah Hen had Ah Sow up on a charge of
assault, at Melbourne City Court, the other dav
and the chief witness for the defence was Sin Cat"
China would appear to be the Animal Kingdom.
The utter worthlessness of Exhibition prize-
awards is illustrated by the fact that 48 medals—
gold, silver, and bronze—will be distributed among
the 35 Victorian wine-growers exhibiting at the
Pans snow.
In acceding to a prisoner’s request for a
lemand, IVIr, Addison, the Sydney 5.M.,, sarcas-
tically said that he would “give him time to
manufacture evidence and prove an alibi." The
police-magistrates don’t like juries.


Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
[?]
B*6 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, August 21, 1839.
My Dear Moorabikda,—-
A brilliant dress-circle graced the first performance of
“ She Stoops ’to Conquer ” at Sydney Criterion. A recent
bride, just returned from the Continent, wore a lovely con-
fection of ivory silk with ponpons everywhere, huge
white plume fan, white satin opera cloak-edged with
swansdown, one string of pearls round her neck and a
diamond star in her hair. Mrs. Hoffnung wore black
with a cluster of snowdrops on the corsage ; Miss Hoff-
nung, white silk ; Madame Bentami, black lace and passe-
menterie. One of the party in the manager’s box wore a
lovely gown of eau de nil silk with interludes of cream
silk, white feather fan, and bunch of blush roses at the
waist. Behind the footlights there are about two dresses
worth mentioning. In the first act Mrs. Brough (who
looks a trifle overworked) wears a pale-blue brocade
polonaise, the back a la Watteau, the fronts edged with
blue swansdown over a jupe of quilted satin to match ;
elbow- sleeves, finished with deep frills of white lace,
diamond bangles ; while Miss Gillmore wears a floral silk
polonaise—ivory, flowered with crimson roses—over a
pale-pink satin petticoat finished with a tulle flounce.
The men aren’t so lovely as they were in “ Joseph’s Sweet-
heart,” but the wax' in which Inman drapes his travelling
cloak around him is sufficient to complete the joy of the
entire bevy of dress-circle maidens, two of whom I ob-
served commencing desperately pulling a Marguerite to
pieces with a “Loves me, loves me not” chorus directly
he pranced on to the stage ! It’s his fetching eyebrows.
Apropos of the profession. There is one leading actress
at least whom Nature never intended to wear low bodices.
Her neck is “painfully slender” and her salt-cellars are
simply depressing. Surely in all the wide range of thea-
trical make-ups there is something to conceal these
gloomy cavities.
The final performance of “Joseph’s Sweetheart” on
14th inst. was a V.K. affair, the Baron chaperoning a
whole bevy of nice people—including Miss Walenn, in
black lace. The d.c. was well patronised, of course, and
the miraculously good young hero resisted Lady Booby as
firmly as he did five weeks ago. He might have given in
at the last!
It was recently mooted in the circles where the Sydney
“ Ladies’ Club ” is ever under discussion, that it should
be made a mixed—ladies and gentlemen affair—but, with
a shriek of virtuous indignation, your Sappho rises to
protest against the dangerous experiment. Such a
“Mixed Club’’was, she is told, started not long ago in
London. It commenced brilliantly with a bishop or two
on the list, but now- loud laughter and the pop of cham-
pagne-corks at 3 a.m. are its distinguishing features,
while the lady-members mostly gold-wash their hair and
aren’t particular what time it is. Which all points to the
moral that when viewed from the lofty standpoint of the
Sydney man with the auger “ Mixed” clubs are a mistake.
Good-natured Kowalski is going to give a concert in aid
of the distressed Samoans.
The benefit fancy-dress floral fete tendered to K. A-
Skinner at the Elite Rink on 13th inst. resulted in a throng
of marvellous garments—the gentlemen this time display-
ing the most striking disguises. There were four Romeos,
two Mikados, a very novel “Tailor” with a table fixed
round him on which he sewed as he skated, and the
inevitable young man with thin legs who clings to pink
fleshings and is too conscientious to pad ; while the
charming wife of the beneficiary (this style patented in all
countries) wore moss-green velvet, cap en suite. The
floral part of the show- was embodied in the decorations
which were of the most breathless character.
At a Sydney Masonic ball, the other evening, much
diversion was occasioned by a fair creature in gas-
green who danced with both her arms flung round her
partner’s neck—to his intense delight, of course. She was
merely an innocent Continental maiden, they said, carry-
ing on after the manner of her country; but the effect of
that national custom in a Sydney ball-room was simply
electric—arid only the very boldest of men asked her to
dance, I believe.
The Sydney Hospital Bazaar and Village Fair people are
working zealously in what really can he truly called a good
cause, and it is highly probable the show will be ready on
the promised date-the 12th prox. Peace now- broods over
the committee meetings—that determined woman who
would have her myrmidons dress to suit her complexion
having won the day and her helpers being too sad to raise
any further objection.
On dit that there is to be no ball in aid of St. Vincent’s
Hospital this year because a certain lofty personage ob-
jects to money being raised for this worthy object in so
essentially carnal a way, my beloved brethren. 1 hear
that the same personage bent his sacred frown on the
recent Tempe Refuge ball, and if he continues in the same
severely spiritual temper, the good people w-ho [aspire to
follow him are in for a very bad time, so far as hops are
concerned. The Personage frowns not only on hops,
but also on malt and hops.
On the other hand, the Anglican leaders are getting
astonishingly chummy with the World, the Flesh,'andjhe
other fellow, for a real live reverend still in holy orders is
to mouth in Handsome George’s imminent production of
“ Julius Caesar.”
I read that at the recent ball at Government House,
Melbourne, a lady visitor wore a gown which oost £6OO,
the lace alone being worth 20 guineas a yard 1 And yet
many gowns present, which didn’t oost a-third as much,
quite ran away from it for “ looks.”
On dit that a wealthy part-proprietor of a Sydney duly,
at present in England, is “ engaged in the production of a
Tolume of verse.” How soothing it must be to own a
paper and evolve poetry, mustn’t it ? One can imagine
the criticisms. Or will he write them himself ?
A London paper gave an exhaustive account of a swag-
ger “at home” given by “Madame Midas’’the other week.
“Miss Cornwell” wore “a lovely tea-gown of white
surah, lace, embroidery, and ribbon, with a bunch of
mauve and white flowers in front,” while Mrs. Marks, of
Sydney, “ excited the envy of all the other ladies by the
lovely diamond hook and eye that fastened her bonnet-
strings.” There were dozens of “ your ladyships ”
amongst the guests.
Rather stormy weather on the 17th didn’t affect the at-
tendance at Rosehill racecourse, which, despite the
eight-oar races and the largely “ complimentary ” athle-
tics, was satisfactorily thronged. Perhaps the nicest
gown was of reseda cloth with Empire sash of black moire—
small black hat ornate with moire ribbons. A stylish
get-up was a dark-blue serge polonaise over a white serge
jape and vest braided in silver, dark-blue toque hat with
blue ribbons anda white bird, and silver-topped “husband,
beater.” The course was beautifully green and looked as if
somebody had recently been over it with a brush and
comb—which is more than I can say for a professional
gentleman in a Norfolk jacket whose hyaointhine locks
had the woeful appearance of a retriever’s tail after being
earned at half-mast through a barn-yard.
As to husband-beaters, I am glad that these monstrosi-
ties will be “taboo” this season. The “swagger” sun-
shade is not frilled but is of plain silk like the en-tout-
cas ; in colour it is as gay as you like, and is generally
mounted on a brass frame. The handle can he as gorgeous
as possible, and the stick is rather longer than that of an
average umbrella. It is, of course, carried tightly furled.
At “ top-note” weddings, pages are in great demand
just now. At one or two great London ceremonies they
were much in evidence, and Lady Isabel Boyle, who
recently married Mr. James Larnaoh, of N.Z., had two
pages and eight bridesmaids to support her through the
ordeal. The pages are ostensibly introduced to carry the
bride’s train, which it is the thing to have very long and
costly. Still harping On drapery, have you seen the new
“Safety” riding-habit? It has a hole for the third
pommel to go'through in the under-part of the skirt and
an opening, the entire length of it fastened over with
elastic—which will burst when you commence to go over
your charger’s ears. The “Safety” hangs much better
than the ordinary habit, and I suppose one could get it
made in Sydney. The excellent model shown me was
brought from England by a recently-returned bride.
A glaringly “complimentary-family-party-tioket” crowd
swarmed the grand-stands at Sydney .Association Ground
on 17th inst.; the attraction being the University Athletic
Club sports. As the day was showery, anybody who “had
anything on ” clung to the stand, w-here the people were
packed like sardines, and the lawn didn’t show any very ,
remarkable gowns, though the ensemble was decidedly
gay. There were no Spring frocks, and but one or two
Spring hats. A grey cashmere enlHrectoire (a style which
will be in during summer, I am told) had revers and jupe
of grey silk, black picture hat ornate with black ribbons,
black Empire veil. A twine-coloured cloth was ornate
with gold and fawn braid, a fawn-coloured boa, and a
brown velvet Gainsboro’ hat, weighed down with brown
feathers, completing a harmonious whole. A great many
Empire veils—so useful with wide hats—were obsex-vahle.
Then a pretty girl w ore a dark-blue serge, made like a
morning wrapper and fastened with a white celluloid belt.
Another wore dark-green with long Plantagenet sleeves —
a style not at all suited to walking,dresses—whilst a third
was attired from head to heel in scarlet plush 1
Those old poetical notions about keeping' your “ rags ’ •
in lavender till everything turns blue, have heen most un-
romantioally exploded. A useful scientist has discovered
that lavender in a drawer actually engenders' silver-fish
and is the very best thuig to ensure their permanent abode
in the front width of yohr smart cloth -gown' 1 There -is”
nothing but camphor for it after all !
The first performance of “ Peep-o’-Day,” at Her
Majesty’s Theatre, on the 17th inst., didn’t attract an.
astonishingly large dresS-eircle, and those persons who
were present hadn’t taken as much trouble as usual with
their back hair. There were but one or two nice dresses.
An eau de nil striped moire was made en IHrectoire over a
skirt of cream lace fastened across with loops of eau de nil
ribbon. A pale-blue satin had a side-panel of crystal
beaded net - A .cream satin had a bodice decked
with crystal headed tulle and large clusters of
scarlet poppies; while Miss Watts Phillips, in the
manager’s box, -wore black lace and passementerie
and a cluster of violets. “ Peep-o’-Day ” is mainly
remarkable for the fact -that in Father O’Gleary we have
rather less of George Rignold than usual, that great im-
personator not once striking an attitude under the lime-
light during the entire play. By the way, the real live
cleric who is to star in “ Julius Caesar ” had a front seat on
Saturday, and, after the show, was seen making tracks for
the green-room in all the glory of clerical choker and
buttoned-up black cloth. And you should have seen the
uninitiated peering after him !
In a paper of weeping periods over those problematical
individuals “Women’s Friends,” a gushing S.M. Herald
sentimentalist, signing Faustina,” modestly says that, on
the whole, woman “ keeps the hand of the dial pointing
towards moral uprightness, and thus, consciously or un-
consciously, influences the world for good.” This is really
comforting, and were it not for the miserable indisputable
fact that half the petitioners in current divorce-cases are
men, the theory would be quite a soothing one to embrace.
Further, “ Faustina'” sobs: —“ Marriage fails us in many
cases, and numbers of our sex have to fall back upon their
sisters for friendship and sympathy.” Certainly marriage
is frequently a frost. But do you really believe the
victims always fall back upon their sisters for consolation?
The ladies’ return hall to the members of the Western
Club is to eventuate at West’s rooms on 30th August,
when the first w-altz is to start at 8.30, and a special train
will leave Redferu at 2.30 a.m. The ball in aid of the
“ Royal Naval House,” under, the iegis of Mrs. Admiral
Fairfax, will take place at the Darlinghurst Skating Rink
on the 10th prox., when a large jhrong should'result, con-
sidering the worthiness of the object and the low price of
the tickets.
Admiral and Mrs. Fairfax finally leave Sydney on the
12th prox., going overland to Adelaide, where they will
join their homeward-bound Orient liner. Possibly to
make the wrench of parting easier to bear, Mrs. Fairfax
will not receive visitors until Tuesday, 3rd prox., when
she will he “at home” at Admiralty House-actually for
the last time to Shandygaff et Cie! Before leaving,
Admiral and Mrs. Fairfax intend paying a farewell visit to
the Fish River caves.
As a set-off to these departures I may mention that
Lord Hopetoun is confidently expected to rise in the Vic-
torian east on Ist December, together with his trio Of
A’s-de-c., Captain Hood, Lieutenant Everleigh de
Moleyns (!) and Lord Rosehill, who is a sort of emergency-
man, in case either of the others gets choked by wearing
cuffs on his neck- They are all reported to be “nice”
young men, and one of them is said to have made a tre-
mendous “ hit” amongst his “ set” by drinking a famous
actress’ health out of a pink-satin slipper she had given
him. This is just the kind of intellect to fairly paralyse
Toorak.
“ La Sonnambula ’’—staged for a brief run in Sydney
Opera House on the 19th inst.—is mainly remarkable for
the sweet trilling of Miss Tree in the name-part and the
exceeding slimness and redness of StookwelTs legs, which
cast a warm glow over the opera and resemble a pair of
animated radishes. But Tree’s singing is very sweet
throughout, and the dead, hushed silence that followed
her rendering of the “Dream” aria in the second act
was a most flattering recognition of her success. As for
the “ house ” it was rather patchy, and for the feminine
portion, mostly high-necked with vegetables in its hair,
though one apparition with cheek-bones one could hang a
hat on, came exceedingly see-more in Jubilee-red not !
I wonder if people who patronise hansoms ever reflect
that the driver can hear all they say? The trap-door is
mostly open and fares speak at a howl so as to be audible
amidst the rattle, all of which is in favour of Jehu’s stealing-
uninvited into your confidence. Some Pickwickian con-
versations must take place in hansoms- to cabby’s infinite
amusement, very often, I have no doubt—and, yet, the
hansom sfceerer is a rather discreet individual, don’t you
think ? And if he keeps his ears open, his mouth is shut.
How few cab-drivers ever volunteer evidence on divorce-
cases ! And how often people drive in cabs on the way to
divorce I
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The happiest man in Sydney, just now, is
Mr. E. Grant Ward, the Registrar-General.
The Dillon-Deasy-Esmonde mission to Aus-
tralia has already idealised £19,050. What a splen-
did failure!
The Victorian bank-returns were published
last week. Without the gaol record they are
utterly incomplete.
The saying that “it is more blessed to
give than to receive ” is now attributed in pugilistic
circles to Peter Jackson.
It is now alleged in England against Zola’s
works that they familiarise the democracy with
the crimes of the aristocracy.
Next month there will be an additi n to
Australian vice-royalty, and now prayers are
ascending to heaven that it will be a son and heir.
According to the American Analyst, the
worst enemies of the human race are the doctors,
who, trying to prolong our miserable existence in
a world full of death-traps, simply add one pitfall
to the number.
It is a remarkable fact that, however
popular colonial politicians may be before, after
accepting a “decoration ” they take “ back seats.”
Sir Henry Parkes is the only titled man in the
N.S.W. Assembly. In. the Victorian House there
is not one, Sir Bryan O’Loghlen’s title being
hereditary.
A Good Sell.—A certain well-known
gentleman in Sydney, whose identity it would lie
impossible to conceal, carefully read a smart
paragraph in an evening paper last week, only to
find that his interest had been excited, like that
of the present reader, in a puffing advertisement
of the famous St. Louis Lager'Beer.
French lawyer’s clerk bolts with the
“ greed.” A few days after the lawyer receives
the following letter : —“ Honoured Sir, —As there
is no one in whom I have .such confidence as your-
self, I venture to inquire if, in the event of my
being apprehended, you would consent to under-
take my .defence ? —Yours,” Ac.
While the East Sydney oarsmen were com-
peting in the eight-oar race on the Parramatta on
Saturday last Someone burgled- their shed and got
away with their watches and jewellery. ’Twas
ever thus. While we are grafting hard for the
shadow, the electro-plate, someone - slips in and
annexes the substance, the real “gilt."
One Brodzky, of Melbourne, who runs a
. nice little paper which-assiduously grovels at the
feet of the nobility, Australian ■ and imported,
- urges the Victorian" Government to proscribe The
Bulletin because jt is “ seditious.” Brodzky
should return to Poland instanter and grease down
the Russian nobility. The titled aristocracy are
surely not plentiful enough in this degraded land
to suit the, tastes of a man who writes : “ Mr.
. Grice is making some additions to his mansion
“ Lady Smith, of South Australia, is returning
from London. ” Yah !
Proprietor Evans, of the Sunday Times,
has a sore spot. Judging - from recent events, he
doesn’t like anybody tb say that his latest paper,
the Stale Foul, comes from the Sunday Times
office, for he now points out that it is managed by
a staff altogether apart from that of the Sunday
Times. Possibly so, but then, yon see, it comes
from the Sunday Times office all the same. On
28th July the following appeared in the Sunday
Times aforesaid ;
The Bulletin has chosen to find fault with the -■ ,
and in a short but uncomplimentary paragraph objects to
our being here. We are sorry we should have, on making
our first appearance, not succeeded in pleasing everybody,
hut the sale of the paper and the demands on its'adver-
tising space show, &o. &o.
Thus but a few weeks ago the Sunday Times
and the Foul were “we.” Why are they “we”
no longer, Good Evans ?
A high-toned Melbourne hash-house has
been the scene of an insidious attempt to intimi-
date the almighty press. Among the crowd who
scrambled for victuals at the establishment in
question was a long-haired, flat-hatted apostle of
temperance, and an unregenerate reporter for the
local ’Erald. The apostle naturally became the
pet lamb of the landlady and other mature woman-
kind, whereas the reporter merely got the average
allowance.of gravy and nice brown fat; lint he
was on decent terms with the landlady and at
peace with the apostle, who used to drop tracts on
him, and greet him with a conciliatory snuffle.
Sometimes they passed each other the pepper,
and things like that. Anyway, there was har-
mony in the hash-foundry until the apostle got
“ pulled ” for slangwhanging another child of grace
on the wharf, the pious disturbance being caused
by one apestle having diverged from the temper-
ance track in order to offer up a short prayer for
the other fellow’s missis, or vice versa. The re-
porter, being told off to' do this police-court case,
turned out a faithful description of how one
apostle accused the other of annexing £5O contri-
buted to the blessed cause, and how they were
both to be made shocking examples of if they came
before De Beerthirst Panton ever again. The
reporter neither extenuated nor set down aught in
malice, but when the third edishun of the ’Erald
came forth the high priestess of the hash-house
and her attendant virgins tore their hair and wept
salt tears into the vermicelli soup. Then they
anointed the apostle with oil and said it was
downright wicked, and the misery concluded by a
notice to quit being brought to the unfortunate
reporter on a charger. As the male boarders rose-
against this attempt to muzzle the Archimedean
lever, and a detachment of them did actually
shake the hash drops from their manes and find
fresh quarters, the reporter’s notice was with-
drawn, and now the apostle beams upon him
across the festive board same as before. But this
attempt to hit the Press in its stummick was too
horrible to be endured in silence.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Pepita.”
Her Majesty’s “ Julius Caesar.”
Opera House “La Sonnambula.”
Criterion “ She Stoops to Conquer,”
Waxworks Jo-Jo.
Cycloram a “Bat Goof Gettysburg,”
Academy ok Music The Frolics.
Metropolitan Skating Rink ... Ultimo.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Silver King.”
Princess’ “Captain Svvifr.”
Opera House “ Fun on the Bristol,”
Alexandra Shakesperian Season.
St. George’s Hall London Pavilion Co.
Victoria Hall Professor Jensen.
Athen.eum Hall Snazellc.
“ Peep-o’-Day,” w hich lias heen produced
at Her Majesty's to fill another long-felt want and
pass the time until Julius Osesar-effects a landing,
is a sensational drama richly embroidered with the
peculiarities of “ the finest pisanthry in the
wurruld ; ” the best of them being Barney O'Toole,
and the rest nowhere, except when they are split-
ting the round earth into geological fragments
with potsticks, and uttering the stolen war-cry of
the Bosjesmans. The social and political diffi-
culties which originate in the eccentricities of Mr.
Peep-o’-Day and his followers, culminate every
time when George Rignold’s turn comes to step in
on the “ Soggarth ” and do something which fills
the air with wonder and applause. A misguided
youth by the name of Kavanagh, who commences
his career in a Tipperary cabin by writing tales
for a Dublin publisher, is speedily overtaken by
retributive justice in the shape of seven years
hard for a much less heinous offence which he
didn't commit ; and Stephen Purcell, a weak-
kneed \ illain and an exceptionally bad shot,
marks the progress of the hours by a series of
criminal surprises which are invariably upset in
the interests of justice and morality either by the
Sdggarth or Mr. O’Toole. The, former swings
himself over a precipice by the aid of a remark-
able tree rooted in a door-hinge, and the latter
shoots Stephen at long range ; but, unfortunately,
not before Stephen has missed everybody else, and
the craving for gore has taken possession of the
audience. A detachment of British infantry sup-
plies as much swagger as the house will hold,
until even the oppressed Irish can stand no more,
and proceed to conquer and disarm them with the
national yam-stick. The literary man turns up at
the end of his seven years in time to marry a girl
who wants him worse than anything, and fires off
all the pathos generated in his system by prison
discipline and hominy diet. Everybody else is
then pardoned, on the strength of a letter which
arrived some years before, and the blessing of the
Soggarth sheds peace on his turbulent flock and
restores tranquillity to the heaving emotions of an
admiring and sympathetic gallery.
The magnificently-staged “Pepita” still
draws at the Royal. Its scenes throughout are
picturesque, the Wayside inn -of the first act, and
the arena of the last, are fine; but the Moorish
interior, with its pillared hall, tesselated pave-
ment, the lily-spangled pool, and palms of the
courtyard, is a thing of beauty and a revelation.
The dresses worn throughout are splendid and
thoroughly correct in detail; the march of the
alguazils, banderillos, picadors, matadors, and
other bull-worriers, a triumph of the costnme-
maker’s art, scarcely obtaining the attention it
deserves. Miss Nellie Stewart wrestles with at
least six changes of clothing, while the Pataqnes
of Mr. Elton now perches on the sun-kissed
pinnacle of perfection, his duet with “Uncle”
Bombardos—a fine stage figure—being ever the
encore pie-e of the opera. The characters sus-
tained by Miss Fanny Liddiard, Miss Helen Kin-
naird, Mr. Howard Vernon, and Mr. Leumane
also continue satisfactory.
-*- * -;if
“ She Stoops to Conquer” is admirably
staged at Sydney Criterion. Time will show if
tin’s play is not more likely to appeal to the sym-
pathies of the student of literature, than to those
of the ordinary Sydney theatre-goer of the day.
Its situations are not so sensational, its dialogue
not so slangy and “spicy,” its incidents do not
follow so closely on the heels of one another, as
those of the modern comedy, and perhaps om this
account, and not because of its inherent short-
comings, or those of its interpreters, the success
achieved may not be equal to deserts.
# # %
Dealing with the characters in the order
that their representation seems to merit, it becomes
difficult to speak too highly of the Hardeastle of
Mr. Hilton. The part fits him like a glove, and
his acting throughout is even and effective, without
the faintest suggestion of a straining for effect.
As Miss Hardeastle, Mrs. Brough has apparently
a more congenial part than that of Lady Booby,
She is by turns arch, witty, and tender, and!
always natural and womanly, and,-as nothing
more is demanded from her, higher praise we can-
not give. The remaining honours may fairly be
divided between Messrs. Brough and Lyndal.
The only blemish discoverable in the pourtrayal
of Tony Lumpkin was an over-rapidity of speech
and motion —a vivacity hardly characteristic of
the young country squire of that day, while the
only weak point in an otherwise highly-finished
reading of young Marlow, was displayed in the
bashful scene, to our mind over-acted! That a
shy. young man should blush, stutter, and trip
in the presence of a strange maiden is only
natural, that he should find a difficulty in
breathing, totter on his legs, and forget
ther common usages of society, is inexplainable.
The part of Mrs. Hardeastle, as taken by Miss
Ronier, is perhaps only less worthy of notice than,
those preceding, because her opportunities are of
lesser magnitude; while the Miss Neville of Miss.
Lilian Gillmore, and the Hastings of Mr. In man
are creditable if subordinate performances. Th©
Diggory of our very old stage acquaintance, Mr.
George Leopold, is, so far as dialect and facial in-
terpretation are concerned, admirable, but a
slight tendency is shown to overdo the peacockish
strut of the pampered menial. As the maid.
Miss Bessie Major has little to do, and Mr. Hol-
man by no means looks a Sir Charles Marlow.
Mr, Spong deserves much praise for his principal
“ interior,” and the cloth of the concluding act.
** * *
On Saturday night mesmerist Kennedy
re-opened in Sydney at the School of Arts hall, an
apartment too long sacred to milk-and-water lec-
tures and the shrieks of the debating club. The
building was packed, and Mr. “ Joe ” Brown had
to turn away many whom he would have gladly
emptied. In our youth we lived near the sea-


Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND W
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, &e., &s.,
SUITABLE FOR
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates, A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Street).
shore, and often listened to our grandmother’s
tales of the wicked Russians whose nocturnal
visits to town were invariably followed by total
darkness, caused by their absorption and deglu-
tition of the oil and candles contained in the public
lanterns. _ These wicked proceedings our ancient
Presbyterian relative could by no means excuse ;
her only comfort lay in the reflection that
these oleaginous and wicked marauders would
bum with remarkable brilliancy in Tophet.
Inflammatory by nature, with these awful
examples in view, the writer does not re-
gret that bashfulness precluded him from ven-
turing into the paw of the lecturer with several
omnivorous individuals, who afterwards greedily
devoured tallow-dips washed down by bumpers of
lamp-oil, and then, smoking tallow candles under
the impression that they were “Henry Clays,”
expectorated freely over the footlights. The
mesmerist is a plump and pleasing person, whose
flow of talk is fortunately not sufficiently brilliant
to distract attention from his hypnotic feats—most
mesmerists are all jaw and no hypnotism—while,
as a well-informed contemporary* remarks, there is
no apparent “duplicity between Mr. Kennedy and
his subjects.” The entertainment is one huge
guffaw from preface to footnote.
* * * *
The Cyclorama’s management intend to
cater for the multitude, and angle for the nimble
bob, by battling to shilling houses on Sundays.
* & * *•
At the Bondi Aguarium the fine collec-
tion of fish and seals, is the main attraction, but
there are also numberless ways of pleasantly pass-
ing away the time upon the strip of white sand
between the cliffs. For instance, the other day
we saw a young man and his best girl sitting by
the sea. He had his arm round her waist, and she
had her arm round his neck, and they were taking
alternate bites at an apple.
* * & *
“ La Sonnambula ” was produced in Eng-
lish at Sy*dney Opera House, on Monday evening,
to an audience by no means more numerous than
those attendant on even the later performances of
“ Martha.” It was evident that the piece had not
received the careful preparation necessary. The
principals were not letter - perfect, and the
orchestra uncertain, while the stage accessories,
particularly in the mill-scene where the sonnam-
bulist’s shadow clouded the snow-capped moun-
tains in the background, were altogether in-
adequate. Miss Tree sang and acted with feeling,
but certain mannerisms, barely noticeable at the
beginning of the season, and now strongly accentu-
ated, blemished an otherwise admirable perform-
ance. We allude more particularly to the strong
emphasis almost invariably placed on concluding
phrases : resulting in a monotonous division of her
periods by the interspersion of jerky “ lies,” “ ahs,”
and “ughs,” vocally and verbally* repellant.
Miss Tree’s vocalisation iu the recitative that
preludes the concluding duet, was the best effort,
not only from its comparative freedom from
strained and sometimes guttural interpolations,
but because the actress stood still and refrained
from indulging in the two-steps-forward, two-
steps-backward movement, accompanied by a
semi-circular scoop of the arm that is " her
wont. A morning paper is inclined to libel
a class of vocalists —as a rule not remarkable
for their brilliant acting—in declaring that
the acting of Mr. Stockwell “ is not be-
hind that of most tenor vocalists.” His sing-
ing, except in “Still so Gently,” was not
particularly calculated to enthuse listeners, but
nervousness for that may be sufficient excuse.
The efforts of Miss Flora Graupner and Signor
Buzzi, who sang and acted like artists, seemed even
more pleasing by reason of other shortcomings
than usual, and the sandwiching of English
dialogue between layers of Italian song by Rudol-
pho lent a pleasing novelty* to an otherwise de-
pressing entertainment. With practice the per-
formance of “La Sonnambula ” will probably* not
drag so heavily, though why it was substituted
for “Martha” is a conundrum that no one may
successfully answer.
ih * »
Tile natural current of events at Melbourne
Princess’ having been dammed back through com-
plications in Miss Lee’s vocal chords (said cala-
mity being spontaneclt; and not brought on by a
Bad depression in “Grasshopper” shares) the
overwhelming Mr. Charles Warner was afforded
another opportunity to breathe hard in the capa-
city of “ Captain Swift.” This play met with a
frosty* reception in Sydney, in face of a good
London reputation and notwithstanding the en-
couraging fact that its author had taken his place
among the immortals as a former contributor to
The Bulletin, a cosmopolitan publication upon
whose matter the sun never sets. As a British
and American advertising medium this journal is
Unsurpas- but it is time to throw aside the
office trumpet and resume business. For the
second time of asking, then, “Captain Swift”
Is an emotional play —neither a drama, comedy*,
nor comic opera—in four acts of unequal
length and strength. The hero is a Queens-
land bushranger, who goes “ home ” with a
view to sticking up the Bank of England, but
casually fishes from the water a purblind old
country gentleman, that infirm member of the
landed gentry having walked into the rippling
stream under the impression that it was a wayside
pub. or some other charitable institution. Through
this incident the bushranger becomes the honoured
guest of a lady who once gave him birth on the
strict Q.T. In her house he wins the affection of
a pale-faced heiress, and might have made a colos-
sal haul with the nuptial rope, save for the sudden
apparition of the family* undertaker, who pokes
his death’s head across the piano and glares at the
captain until he says “My G !” Subsequently
it transpires that the undertaker was suckled in
company* with the captain before he went
bushranging, and used to hit that wild adven-
turer with a garden-rake, but when he
makes a number of corpse-like references to
childhood’s days the captain gets excited and
from thenceforth the shadows of his past
life gather o’er him, and he ultimately sticks him-
self up with a bullet. A friendly squatter, ad-
mirably represented by Mr. Herbert Flemming,
pervades the trouble and shows up the artificiality
of nearly everybody else except Mr. Vincent, who
does more than justice to the part of the purblind
old man. Mr. Charles Warner’s extravagancies
are made doubly apparent by the rather mechanical
feebleness of his graceful daughter, and the grue-
some repose of the undertaker servant, Mr. Alfred
Phillips. But as the gallery understood Phillips
to be the funny man of the show he was quite a
success. Miss Ada Ward appeared uneven as the
unhappy parent, and remaining parts worth men-
tioning were played several degrees below the best
Princess’ form. Nevertheless, “Captain Swift”
was a big, rough success— a palpable hit, in fact.
It is a pity that Brough and Boucicault didn’t
get hold of such a good play and give it a better
interpretation.
* * * *
Likewise “ Fun on the Bristol” filled the
Opera House with sounds of joy from the centre
to the ceiling. Since Mr. J. F. Sheridan made
his Australian deb (it at Melbourne Royal five
years ago, the local taste has become acclimatised
to his class of entertainment, and critics no longer
get upon their hind-legs to denounce Widdy
O’Brien in the language of Jeremiah. The old
lady’s top 0 appears to lack the nightingale sweet-
ness of long ago, but in other respects the hand of
Time has touched Mr. O’Brien’s relict gently,
while her stock of wheezes has visibly improved
with age. At intervals Imano’s basso struck the
heated atmosphere with great violence, and the
general delirium of the second act was spiritualised
y a fair young creature in trousers.
The same night “ Hamlet ” was presented
at the Alexandra before an audience consisting
largely of sixpenny* gallery*, wherefrom embarras-
sing gusts of applause kept sweeping across the
situation at inconvenient moments’, until an ad-
vanced hour, when the boy*s’ whirlwind of passion
exhausted itself and Shakespeare’s divine lines
were crushed out of recognition by* the stamp of
many* feet. The tragedy was staged in a style
alway’s legitimate, not to say lavish, and the
oarrotty-headed King of Denmark flourished his
sceptre over a court which conducted itself with
admirable discretion at the price. Ophelia’s
funeral, indeed, was a mysterious interment cal-
culated to arouse suspicions that the deceased virgin
wasn’t there, but the mourners wept over her obse-
quies just the same, so it made no real difference.
A certain air of drowsiness clouded Mr. Dampier’s
practised performance of “Hamlet” and dis-
counted the charm of his elocution. Furthermore,
his company seemed to want bracing up in some
places and toning down hi others, and a few of
them stood in urgent need of being born again
under different conditions. Finally*, Immortal
William is de trap at the Alexandra, and as Mr.
Dampier has built up the fortunes of the theatre
with melodrama he is solemnly exhorted to guv it
’em agin, hot and strong as possible,
* * *
A bunch of other new shows shed their
fragrance on the tainted air of Melbourne last
Saturday*. Mr. Snazelle played his lone hand,
with pianoforte accompaniment and a background
of dissolving views at tho Athenaeum, results
indicating that he is destined to fill a long felt
ELECTRIC PHOTO:ENC., CO., 8 BRIDGE-ST,. SYDNEY'
PROFESSOR T. A, KENNEDY.
vacuum in the Australian soul. A variety com-
pany, alleged to be imported direct from the
London Pavilion, took possession of St. George’s
Hall, while a crowd of genteel necromancers traf-
ficked in magic and spells at the Victoria. All these
things will be duly considered in their different
bearings next week. Meanwhile “ Silver King,”
at the Royal, attracts larger attendances and less
approval than of old—a fact which cries aloud for
psychological enquiry. The museum of monstro-
sities, beautiful queens, and performing fleas con-
tinues in demand, and the Cyolorama people are
generally celebrating anniversaries of the birth,
marriage, and death of somebody connected with
the Battle of Waterloo. The Imperial Bonaparte
seems to be having about two birthdays a week.
* * * *
The actor’s art, by the way, consists, not
in holding the mirror up to Nature, but in per-
suading a theatre full of people that he is behaving
like an ordinary human being. And it says much
for the delusive character of traditional stage busi-
ness that few observers can see through the
absurdities perpetrated in even the most “ natural”
of drawing-room comedies. The continued shift-
ing from chair to couch, and back from couch to
chair, which goes on when two or more persons are
gathered together in stage conversation is re-
garded as a matter-of-course proceeding, whereas
such eternal restlessness in everyday society would
be conclusive evidence of nervous disease.
Macready, according to his biographers, was
oppressed with a sense of the actor’s normal arti-
ficiality, but the profession in general, not being
oppressed with much sense of anything save their
personal importance, continue to hold the mirror
up to themselves, and smile contentedly at their
own reflections. The world is waiting for a come-
dian who can take a chair in the centre of the
stage and converse for ten minutes without making
us tired.
% * & *
The Brough-Boucicault company finish
their season at the Adelaide Royal with a benefit
to Boucicault the younger in “Kerry ” and “Our
Boys.” Young Dot plays Kerry and Talbot
Champneys, and G. W. Anson undertakes the
Butterman for the first time. “The Colleen
Bawn” was produced in a very unsatisfactory
maimer, but i! Bachelors,” a more congenial sub-
ject, was an improvement. The Silbon-Stirk
combination follow for a short season. Hapry
Rickards has left Garner’s, after a good time, and
journeyed to Broken Hill. At the Town Hall,
General and Mrs. Mite, said to be the most
diminutive couple in the world, make their first
Australian appearance. The General, who is
remarkably intelligent, is 25 years of age, and his
spouse about three years his junior. They are
both about 22 inches in height. Fred. Gunther is
managing the show, and the Midgets should
“catch ou.”
* * *- *
Tragedian Miln had a “fashionable time”
iu Hobart. He gave 18 performances, eight of
them being perpetrated in the presence of His
Excellency and suite. This is enough to make
the Triumvirate turn pea-green with envy.
-;K- *
Mr, J. H. Clyndes, who recently left the
Melbourne Royal in a violent hurry, will fill Mr.
Charles Warner’s place on tour during the latter’s
emergency engagement at the Princess’. Clyndes
can talk like Warner and pose after the manner of
Irving, but if he duly wrestles with these two
weaknesses he will pull the show along very suc-
cessfully. His Badger in “Streets of London”
should be a strong thing.
At Poverty Point.
The ne v e r-to -be - wip ed-ou t Grattan Riggs is performing
some Home Rule atrocity to good houses in Rockhampton.
The Australian ventriloquist, Bryant—late of Sydney
Alhambra—has had good business in the Port Wakefield
(S. A.) districts.
The Brough-Bouoicault contingent, headed by Frank
Thornton, is drawing good houses in N.Q.
“On Saturday night,” says Millie, in the Age, “I went
to hear ‘ East Lynne,’ at the Alexandra Theatre, and I
wept, while in church on Sunday I slept. Why do not the
clergy take a lesson from the stage ? ”
Jim Carden, the actor, who twice visited Australia, is
now conductor of a school of oratory and public speaking
at San Francisco.
“ Doris,” Cellier’s new opera, has “caught on” at the
Lyric, and the management foresee in it another
“ Dorothy.”
A truthful description of the London music-hall-singer—
an individual with whom we are becoming somewhat too
‘amiliar in Australia—is from Cormiill “ A trumpet
sounds, as though the consuls were entering the circus,
and a gentleman enters to us with the mouth of one of
those Lowther Arcade heads into whose baggy receptacle
in youth we most of us have shied balls. He opens
it to its most fearful extent, and his vicious little
eyes disappear, and he howls his way through a song, of
which, unfortunately, you can hear every word. He
is in evening-dress with a crush hat, and after each verse
he dances heavily rouhd the stage. He is a fellow-creature
with a living to get; that is all that can be said of him. I
don’t know what he was originally intended for—l imagine
a commercial traveller in ironmongery. Now, at any rate,
he is a comic-singer. If it were not so on the programme
I would not have believed it. And they call him great,
too ! but, then, so was the Beast in the Apocalypse.
Irving considers that this will be a good year to revive
“ The Dead Heart,” as one of its incidents is the taking of
the Bastille.
Luscombe Searelle—he always pronounces it “ Seer-all”
—who is making a big hit in theatrical and musical mat-
ters at the Cape, first came to N.S. Wales as pianist to a
small variety-troupe, of which Tom Hargetts, the Austra-
lian conlique, was the lion.
A young and aspiring innocent who recently made
her first appearance in the burlesque—“ Bluebeard,” had
only one line to speak, or one word rather, and that was
“ No, ” when Bluebeard asked her whether she was married
or not. The wit of the company called her aside and said:
“ Miss Allbut, I take a great deal of interest in beginners,
and I would like to see you get along. Now you know
that in burlesque ‘ gagging ’ to any extent is permitted.
Whenever you have an opportunity, gag. The manage-
ment will like it, and perhaps you may make a hit.
Suppose when Bluebeard asks you if you are married you
say ‘ , so and so.’” Well, her cue came, Bluebeard came
up to her and in an insinuating tone inquired “are you
married ? ” Poor little Miss Allbut! what do you suppose
she did ? She pinched Mr. Peakes on the leg and archly
replied, “ No, but my mother is.” Everybody howled of
course.
Charles Warner starts on tout with his own company,
opening at Ballarat on 19th insb., Tasmania and N.Z. to
follow.
Tragedian Miln has leased Melbourne Opera House for
12 months. He intends producing “ Henry V.”
The future of Australian poets is gloomy. “ Collar-and-
cufl” actors still continue to arrive.
An aspersion has been oast upon the moral character of
“ East Lynne ” by the prosecution of Madame Vine for
keeping a disorderly house in Melbourne.
J. Hesford, a well-known N.Z. actor, is now running a
skating-rink at Liverpool (N.S.W.). Dramatic entertain-
ments are given twice a week, and the Marion Willis-
Keogh Go. have lately visited the place.
Willie Warner, who has not yet departed for London*
has, it is said, been giving a piece of bis mind to J. G-
Williamson and H. H. Vincent lately, concerning the rela-
tive talents of English and Australian actors.
Manager Solomon has a big novelty in store for the
Sydney public. It will be boomed upon them in October.
George Darrell’s Co. will soon resume business. George
has written another drama, “The Half-Gaste.”
Jimmy MaoMahon got a pair of lovely black-eyes from
Cornelius Silbon. From all accounts the attack was a
most cowardly one, considering the respective physique of
the two men.
Miss Rosa Towers contemplates another tour through
India w(th a dramatic Co.
George Darrell will shortly open at Sydney Gaiety.
Alf. James has joined John F. Sheridan’s Fun on the
Bristol Co. and plays Captain Cranberry.
Miss Laura Wiseman (Mrs. M. Anderson), who will be re-
membered as one of the clever Wiseman family by old
play*goets, has developed into a sweet-voiced singer on the
concert-stage.
Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis now devotes her time in Melbourne
to coaching aspiring amateurs for the dramatic stage.
Managers agree that the best dramatic talent is engaged
in England, tho best variety in America.'
Sydney .will shortly see the Royal Midgets, now in
Adelaide. ,
Frank Clark’s variety company are doing good biz. in
Brisbane.
“ Mick ” Tier, at one time a clown at Burton’s Circus,
now successfully runs an hotel in Adelaide.
“ Hook and Eye,” a comedietta by Eille Norwood, will
be produced for the first time in Australia at the Criterion
Theatre this afternoon for Mr. Kowalski’s benefit. The
comedietta has had a very large run in England with the
Compton Comedy Go.
True to his inordinate desire for all the “fat” and
situations, the Only One has perverted part of the author’s
idea in a certain play. He brings one of the characters
on where ho never was before in the scene, and so rolls
the rightful hero of his kudos.
Dampier has settled down in Melbourne, his luck being
fairly in at the Alexandra. He now has John Hennings
to paint his scenery and the result goes without saying.
A nephew of the late Robert Heller, conjurer and
pianist, will shortly strike Australia in the same line of
business. When Heller died in America he left a selfish
will directing that all his apparatus be destroyed.
Tom Howe, late of the Federal Minstrels, is running a
tobacconist’s shop in the Victoria Arcade, Sydney, where
a complete file of The Bulletin from its inception may be
seen.
A son of Sir William Carroll, a one-time Lord Mayor of
Dublin, is at present engaged in the W.G. and M. Com-
pany, and is the possessor of a rich bass voice.
Fred. Leslie recently underwent a painful operation in
London.
Jennie Watt-Tanner is obtaining a foothold in Loudon.
Phil. Beck is the son of a clergyman. He looks like it ;
by the way.
The Metropolitan Skating Rink, Ultimo, is still going
day and nightly, despite the hard times.
The Elite Rink (Sydney) will be closed for repairs, made
necessary by the recent fire.
When Australian “ pros.” read an adverse critique upon
a comrade they kindly observe that “ it’s only what he
deserves.” Should a notice be favourable they ask “ How
much did it cost him ?”
At a benefit concert given the other night at Sydney
Protestant Hall a subscription for the widow and orphan's
Of a late railway employee swere read out. When the
audience—a large one-heard “ Lord Carington, 105.. !
they laughed, they did.
Genevieve Ward is showing in London in a new piece
styled ‘ ‘ Forgotten In the past the never-to-be-forgotten
“ Forget-Me-Not ” was her best effort.
Miss Finkelstein’s Bible-lecturing successes in Queens-
land have convinced the portly lady from Jerusalem that
“ the Queenslanders are a Bible-loving people.” However,
we still think they* are more rum-loving than Bible-loving.
Last year they got away* with 400,000 gallons of rum and
only 47 Bibles passed through Brisbane Custom House.
We don’t suppose Miss Finkelstein will contend that the
Queenslanders love the Bible w ell enough to smuggle it.
Paolo Tosti is 45, and has written over 500 songs.
There has been a sale of Mrs. Langtry’s stage-props, in
New* York, and the Lake of Como scene, where, accord-
ing to Curly Bellew. the mellow light stole from alabaster
lamps, where every* air was heavy with the breath of
orange groves, and where music from sw*eet lutes gushed
forth from amid the roses—together with other Baft.
Rodd and Purves’£2-a-foot word-painting—was knocked
down in a cheese-smelling auction-mart for £5.
Dramatist H. A. .Tones tells of a critic w*ho sat next to a
young man at a theatre, who said fie did not see much in
Shakespeare’s plays. “It is quite optional,” replied the
critic.
The Theatre Royal, Hobart, has been purchased by Mr.
C. E. Davis, of the Mercury.
From a London paper -
7PENOR voice for Christ Church, Endell-st., W. C..
•- choir; good reader ; salary, £5 per annum. Apply
Friday evening, 7.30.
This is a clear case of a tenor being only worth a “fiver,”
Remenyi w*as giving concerts at Johannesberg, Trans-
vaal, last July.
The “Anglo-American Frolics,” a minstrel company-
under W. J. Wilson, have opened at Sydney* Academy*.
Kuster orchestrates, and the show is good of its kind.
The Tories don’t like the Fife-Louise
marriage. It offers a remote prospect of the
Duffs coming to the throne, and replacing the
Duffers.
To a Mule.
O mule!
Thou gaunt, grave, gawky Gatling gun
On fours ! Thou lank, embodied lightning streak,
.All hail!
(Be careful, Muses, of his heels.)
Thy drooping ears and languid eye,
Most subtle beast, might well breed confidence,
But thou shalt not obliquely launch thy heels
At me, thou wily rogue!
Great Scott!
How I have sometimes seen th 5 unwary youth
Of African descent hoist heavenward,
Contorted, writhing, by thy merciless hoof !
Then thou wouldst turn thy luring, blinking eye
To gaze upon the melancholy work.
Or lure with basilisk glance some victim new.
0 mule!
Star maker !
Dealer in pyrotechnic novelties !
Thou verily art loaded, cooked, and primed.
From early morning till the steps
Of dewy dusk imprint the sky with stars,
1 would not draw within
The magic circle of thy cognizant heels
For all the yellow gold that Shasta yields.
Or silken freights that hither swim from Ind.
Ex.


High Art Photography. —For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONT
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington “By Appointment.”
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
-—A—
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilc-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B. —Only two hours from Melbourne.
Go, Bing the Knell.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bishop Higgins, speaking at Cooma recently,
said “ that the day a parent forgot himself so
much as to send a child to a Public School he rang
the knell to their faith.” What is this Faith ?
Not faith in God or in His laws
That govern earth in which men dwell.
That needs no fires nor bloody wars,
Nor bigot priests to fight its cause —
No, not true faith. Go, ring the knell!
Not faith in God, such faith should fly.
Should soar above what man may tell;
Faith in a myth, a dream, a lie,
A creed of man. Then let it die,
’T has lived too long. Go, ring the knell !
Eaith, faith ! When men first felt the need
Of other powers, ’twas then they fell —
Fell to be slaves of craft and creed,
A prey to wickedness and greed,
And State and strife. Go, ring the knell!
Oh ! Faith has been a curse to lands,
Has made of lovely earth a hell ;
Heaped up with infamy it stands,
With branded brow, with bloody hands,
With stained soul. Go, ring the knell!
And man knows this. Though tyrants fight,
He will no more his birthright sell—
God made him free. In dark of night
His voice speaks forth : “ Let there be light,”
Go break the chains. Go,’ring the knell!
Priests of all Faiths, you well may pale,
Look to your chains and fetters well,
( 'reeds and philosophies may fail,
But in the end Truth must prevail,
For Truth is God-. Go, ring the knell!
Yes, Faith must die. Science has shed
A light which cleaves its worn-out shell,
And human hate grows cold and dead,
And man loves man and God instead,
And peace abides. Go, ring the knell!
V i s, ring the knell ; this old earth would
Be very glad to say farewell.
I ling out the bad, ring in the good,
Welcome true faith and brotherhood
And peace on earth. Go, ring the knell!
HENRY E. HORNE.
Bombala, sth August.
Ode to the Yarra.
( BY A SUFFERER.)
Gigantic gutter ! sewer-receiving stream,
Across whose breast the ferry-boat doth steam,
Thou who dost cherish many a mystic stink,
And fostereth many more upon thy brink,
At whose delicious scent e’en angels wink,
I think.
Where can we find a blacker, inkier flood ?
Whero sit the tranquil rats upon the mud,
And whisper to the decomposing cat—
No more thou’ll’t scare away the gentle rat,
Or sit and yowl upon the doorstep mat ?
I wot.
The sad-eyed puppy and the gloomy goat
Together on thy peacefid bosom float -
Deeming their tasks on earth are all complete.
Not dreaming they’ll be used for sausage-meat—
To heaven they point in resignation sweet,
Their feet.
The anxious butcher with a hook in hand
Upon thy brink with eager eye doth stand.
In order to augment his weekly wages.
The reason why his time he thus engages
It grieves us to record upon these pages.
Sau-sages!
Sweet innocents oft sport upon thy bank,
All heedless of their mother’s threatened spank ;
Too oft, alas ! they tumble in, -are drowned,
Thou buriest them—alas ! not underground,
But when the diver comes a-scraping round,
They’re found!
Crawl on ! thou dank and dismal Yarra, crawl,
While we with bated breath thy praises scrawl,
By fertile meadows and by gum-trees tall,
By Merri Creek, by Kew Asylum’s wall,
The sweetest stream on this terrestrial ball,
We bawl.
THOMAS K. PITT.
Buckland, Tasmania.
Grenfell’s Victory,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh! bandsmen sound the cymbal; oh ! clergy
raise your hymn,
And glorify the victory we won in Suakim,
Sing how the noble army (at very little loss)
Upheld the English ensign and the glory of the
cross.
Oh ! twas a noble victory (we must not mention
facts
About the well-trained men opposed to badly-
armoured blacks,
Nor about the modern weapons, or those the
Arabs boi'e),
Enough it is that lavishly was shed the heathen
gore.
All praise to ‘ ‘ noble ” Grenfell, our bosoms swell
with pride
When we hear the joyous tidings—that stacks of
niggers died ;
Don’t talk about old Wellington—his victories are
nought
To the battle of unequal odds which “noble”
Grenfell fought.
Don't boast about your battles till with peers you
bandy blows
(Keep silence of your vict’ries o’er naked, hunger’d
foes),
Then brag about your triumphs, for Englishmen
must boast,
If only of some niggers killed, whilst fighting
’gainst a host.
F. L. P.
Louise’s espousal of Fife is the result, not
of Cupid, but of cupidity.
An Association of Liars has been formed
at Thargomindah, Queensland. All its offices are
farmed by lawyers, much to the annoyance of the
local editor.
English maiden (reading from the news-
paper) : “It is to be regretted that the German
Emperor has lately shown signs of a somewhat
bellicose disposition.” Second ditto ; “Lor, now!
What a pity! Now I alius thort ’e was a nice,
slim young genelman.”
“Do you take the Western Agricul-
turalist?” “I used to, but I don’t any more.
The editor insulted me.” “ Really ! In what
way?” “The other day I called on him and
asked his opinion as to the best way of raising
hogs, and he told me to pull myself up with a
derrick.”—Ex.
Mosenthal: “ Now ve got der arrange-
ments made, it vas only necessary to make up our
minds yot ve vill call der firm.” Einstein; “How
vould it do to call it Einstein and Mosenthal ?”
Mosenthal: “Himmel, do you vant to ruin der
business at der start? Ve vant to call der firm
der Australian Square-Dealing Vun-Price Cloding
House.’ Den dey von’t suspicion noding.”—Ex.
In Brisbane Insolvency Court the other
day Justice Harding said that the brewer now-a-
days did more than brew beer —he bought corner
lots, built houses upon them, put reckless men
into them, and eventually emerged from the
transaction with all the property of the said reck-
NOT WORTH THE CANDLE.
POLICEMAN No. 117642: “ Now, thin ! What games are yez up to in theer?”
SUSPICIOUS CHARACTER: " Why, to be candid with you, I came in here to burgle, but
I'm afraid I shall not be able to offer you much of an adventure, as I find this
is a vacant house; and besides I have left my revolver at home on the dressing-
table, so that in the event of your arresting me I can merely tear your
uniform, which, to a young and ambitious officer like yourself, I should say, would
be too hackneyed and commonplace!" (No.117642 takes the same view of
it and moves on.)
less men. It was the case of the spider and fly
over again. The brewer, of course, being the
“fly” spider, and the publican the spidered fly.
P.S. —The joke is not Mr. Harding’s; judges
never make good jokes.
At Hyde (N.S.W.) Police-court lately one
man proceeded against another for assault. The
complainant said that the other man had knocked
him down and sat on him, and that the assault
was quite unprovoked. * ‘ Are you sure you gave
no provocation?” asked the Bench. “Did you
call him any names?” To which the startling
reply was; “I called him a cow—a twopenny-
ha’penny thing—and a low swine, which he is. ”
Verdict for defendant in one act.
Whom should we see in Melbourne the
other day but old Tom Coker, he of the nose, im-
mortalised in Chas. Lascelles’ wonderful drawings
of the bookies—you can see some of them in Wood-
ward’s King-street (Sydney) oyster-shop. Tom is
not so ‘ ‘ conky ”as he was. He and Hobson preceded
Jimmy Miller in getting up sweeps, but they went
in a one-horse style, whereas J.J. shoved in a
whole team. You must remember Lascelles’ won-
derful portraits of Coker, the Thompsons, &c., &c.
He also took off the opera-singers wonderfully,
and lastly himself, as the lackadaisical Prince
Paul, in the “Grand Duchess.” Then he took
himself off to Africa, and from thence over the
Styx.
A miserable British “ noble ” -man, one
Rowton, is having a bad time of it in his efforts to
produce in book-form the memoirs and literary re-
mains of the deceased Primrose Beaeonsfleld.
When Disraeli was alive he always kept in one
corner of his study a chest about the size of an
ash-cart, and into this he wildly heaved the whole
mass of his correspondence, including circulars,
defaced stamps, torn envelopes, newspaper-cut-
tings, and, in fact, almost all written and printed
matter that came in his way. When the chest
was full it was locked and stowed away in a cellar,
and when Beaeonsfleld at last departed to hang
his nose over a harp in the Elysian fields, 36 mon-
strous packing-cases of miscellaneous debris were
bequeathed to his heirs. These gentlemen speedily
gave it up, and the wreckage was handed over to
Rowton, which belated person has ever since been
choking with dust in his efforts to sort them out.
It is expected that the job will be accomplished—•
some day, and by that time people will be asking
who this man Disraeli was, anyhow.
One of the best and biggest-hearted citizens
of Australasia is Josiah Clifton Firth, a sturdy
Yorkshireman, long settled in New Zealand,
where he became a flour-mill monopolist—he
ground all the flour for the Auckland province and
more— and owner of countless thousands of acres.
Lately the bank foreclosed upon him and took all,
and this is what he {Firth is the man who so took
Fronde’s fancy) said to the workmen who came to
tell him that they were sorry and to say farewell:
Circumstances have separated us in our old capacity—a
capacity which has bound some of us together for I don’t
know how many years, 30 years almost—that of master
and man ; but I am sure it is quite impossible for time or
circumstances to withdraw my sympathy from you. We
may no longer occupy the position—we shall no longer
occupy the position of master and workmen, but as to our
relations as friends, which we have always occupied—it is
not in the power of time or circumstances to change that.
(Applause.) I am on the verge of losing all my property-
all my hard earnings for 35 years. Well, so long as I can
feel that it has not been through my own fault; so long as
I can feel that I am a victim, perhaps, to too great a belief
in the fortunes—the quick fortunes—of this country; in
fact, so long as my only fault is having believed in the
country, perhaps a little too well, perhaps expected a
little too much of it, I am satisfied, for it is a generous
country, and will give us all that we can reasonably expect
of it, if we give it time ; but the mistake I and other’s have
made is that we expected that this country was to be made
in a day. Well, old Rome was not; and I think it is not wise
of us to expect that New Zealand is to be made in a day. I
have made a mistake. I did not expect that the produce
of my great agricultural operations would gradually and
steadily descend in price for 10 years. For instance, some
years ago we got £l5 a head for bullocks, £l5 for a fat
bullock: to-day we get £5. That is the kind of thing
that agricultural operations in a country like this cannot
stand. Everything else was in like proportion until quite
Decently. Now, the country is recovering itself: Mutton,
wool, beef, wheat, and what not, are all increasing in
value ; all come something near to that which the toiler of
the land may rightly claim, and which he rightly deserves
—that is, payment for the sweat of his brow, and the
sweat of his brain. Well, I am out of that; my lands
have gone from me ; and this grand construction, which I
looked upon as a child of my own and of my eldest son—.
for we worked at it without stinting labour —in order that
we might place in New Zealand an establishment that
could manufacture that which is most necessary of all
things—sound, wholesome bread, the staff of life—in a
way that no mill could surpass. We have, however, one
advantage, that we have left such a mill after us; it still
stands, and will be a benefit to this community, so that
those who follow will do as I have always endeavoured to
do, in making a food that I would not hesitate to give
to my own sick children; in making a flour with-
out a taint in it, without anything of bad wheat, or
anything injurious. If those who are going to run
this mill do that —give it fair play and sound, honest
wheat —then they will make bread that will be good and
wholesome. As God is my witness, I will say that I have
never put into a bag of flour, during the 30 years or more
in which I have done business, any article that I would
not give to my own sick children ; and that to me is a
great circumstance. The earnings of my lifetime have
gone. I have worked hard, as you know, and you have
worked with me ; I have made a great deal of money ;
but I have never made a penny of it wrongfully. This is
fortune that happens to the best of men ; and why should
I complain ? Many a better man than I has been deprived
of the earnings of a lifetime ; and while God blesses me
with health and enables me to keep my honour, will I mur-
mur? It seems a sad thing that this country should be so
unkind to its children who work so well, who labour so long
and so hard and then lose the result of this labour. Never
mind ! if some of us get the worst of this, the country
can hardly fail to be the better for it; and you know that
if we leave the world a little bit better than we found it,
we ought to be thankful. Ido not consider that one class
of men are slaves, and another class rulers to make them
obey. They may be master and workmen, but there
ought to be that golden bond of friendship betwixt,
which, whether they fail or succeed, will always
be a bond of love, and will always leave plea-
sant memories behind it. I have not looked upon
you as men who, when you were worn out, were to be cast
away. I have always looked upon you as friends ; and I
have tried to do my duty. When my son, S. B. Firth,
finally convinced me that eight hours were long enough
for anybody to work in a mill, and when I came to
see my duty as between master and man, and in the
higher relation of man to man ; and when I went to the
States and saw in that grand, free country the white
slavery that is a disgrace and a shame to civilisation, I
came back firmly resolved never to work men more than
eight hours on a shift. Well, I have not been able to
quite carry it out; but the eight hours system, begun in
Auckland by others, not by me, has become general, and
it has extended in Australia, in England, on the Con-
tinent, and may extend even in the United States of
America, and eventually be the golden rule which men
follow in regard to their servants, so that they may give
them time to get a mouthful of fresh air, and a gleam of
sunshine in their faces. I believe that when capital re-
cognises its duty to labour, these things will never have
to be enforced. When men see that there is some-
thing better than money ; a relation higher than that of
master and man—that of man and man : I do not think
that if ever that time comes these things will have to be
enforced. Do you know, the first man to support this
eight hours’ movement was Alfred the Great, the grandest
and the best of our English kings. He divided his time,
and he said, “Eight hours for work, eight hours for re-
creation, and eight hours for sleep.” And I hope all eight
hours’ men will look upon that man as the Apostle of the
eight hours’ movement, for such he really was. There-
fore, I honour that English_King ; I always liked him and
loved him, and I love him because I find that in that
distant, dim age he recognised that eight hours is enough
for a day’s work. I am much obliged to you for your
handsome present; I shall treasure it, and my children
shall keep it. I am not broken-hearted—(hear, hear) —
there is nothing of the broken-hearted about me. lam
going to work again ; as soon as ever I can get clear, and
everything is settled, I shall go to work again, though I
am growing old, for God has given me a youthful vigour,
and hope and courage that nothing can put down, and
that nothing ever will put down. I wish you all good-bye,
and hope you will find plenty of employment, and a better
master than J. C. Firth has ever been —I am certain I wish
you will never find a worse. (Applause.) Mr. Firth then
shook hands with those who were present.
The Liver in the Spring.
The liver, located on the right side, below the
right lung, its lower edge being directly under the
the short ribs, and extending across to the left
side, is not only the largest gland of the body, but
is one of the most complex in its workings, and
like a delicate piece of machinery, is easily thrown
out of order. Upon its proper action depends the
mental and physical welfare of the body. Any
one of the following symptoms indicate its de-
parture from health :
Symptoms.—Headache, sallow complexion,
gradually increasing constipation disinclination to
exertion, vertigo, dizziness, highly coloured urine,
a “ splendid ” feeling to-day, and a depressed one
to-morrow; pain under either shoulder, and under
ribs on the right side; neuralgia, pain of chest,
heartburn, indigestion, enlargement of side below
the ribs, dropsy of the abdomen, dry mouth ;
brown flabby tongue; occasional chills, hot flushes,
moth patches on the face, yellowish eye-balls, sick
headache, frequent vomiting of bitter matter;
piles, caused by congestion of the liver; severe
spasmodic pain in upper part of abdomen, relieved
by pressure; hiccough, jaundice, clay-coloured
stools, sour stomach, variable appetite, irritability
of temper, diarrhoea, dysentery, burning palms
and feet, dry cough, sleeplessness.
The diseases which are indicated by any of the
above symptomsare jaundice, gall stones, enlarg-
ment, contraction, congestion, inflammation,
abscess, tumours, hydatids, catarrh of the ducts,
fatty accumulation, cancer, malaria, and last but
not least, biliousness, which is so common in this
country with both sexes.
History.—During winter, Nature wisely arranges
that we should live on foods containing much fat
or, as they are known, hydro-carbons, for the
purpose of supplying heat to the body; the chemical
operation necessary to transform fat into heat is
the exclusive work of the Liver, and so during the
time stated it is constantly congested. With the
approach of warm weather our diet changes to
muscle-producing food, and the work of the liver
is much lessened. In the majority of cases, how-
ever, it is unable to completely throw off the excess
of bile, but remains congested, causing that lazy,
tired feeling which many have in the spring
months, when the weather becomes warm. This
is evidence of an unhealthy condition ; and though
people appreciate the necessity of an alterative at
this period, the common idea is to take drastic
pills and produce a cathartic effect, only to make
matters worse. The liver must be unloaded, and
its proper action restored before hot weather, if
you wish to preserve health, and if this distinct
call of nature is unheeded, serious results will
occur. The blood will become loaded with bile
and lithic acid, and as every drop of vital fluid
passes through the kidneys to be purified, they
soon break down, and are rendered unable to carry
out the deadly poison.
Treatment. —Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s
Safe Pills have not only a specific action on the
Kidneys, but on the liver also. They thin the
thickened bile so that it will pass out through its
ducts, and so enable the glands to unload them-
selves, act as a solvent on all biliary acids, and in
a word, fit the liver for the season’s work, prevent-
ing blood poisoning, inflammation, abscess, and
all affections to which it is so liable. As you
value the blessings of health, do not allow the
summer to approach without giving your system a
“general house-cleaning” with Warner’s safe
remedies. “To be forewarned is to be forearmed. ”


“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market. ”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglis & Co.,
& 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Prankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
John MAE wan & Oo. ?
AUCTIONEERS,
LA.3XTID AGENTS,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &c.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages,. Allotments, &c.
Printed List Businesses fnr Sale issued Hally.
All Lists posted Feee on application.
Personal Items.
Ridley, the British bowler, is taller than
Bonnor.
The National Bank, Melbourne, smells
of Onyons.
The Hawk says that marriage with Fife
was the only cure for Louise’s neuralgia.
Jockey Wood is now considered to be even
“ straighten ” as a witness than as a rider.
Annie Besant, under the tuition of Madame
Blavatzky, has gone over to the Theosophists.
Happy Toorak! One of the new Governor’s
aides bears the tempting name of De Moleyns.
The salary attached to Admiral Fairfax’s
new post as a Lord of the Admiralty is £l7OO a
year.
The Princess of Wales, who cannot hear
her own voice, is gradually losing the power of
intelligible speech.
The primrosy hue of Lord Randolph
Churchill’s cheeks is said to be caused by his
enormous appetite.
Alec Burns, brother of John Burns, the
Socialist M.P., is known as one of the best middle-
weight boxers in England.
When “ His Nastiness ” of Persia visited
an English racecourse the other day, the ring
cheered for the “ Shah and ’is ’arem.”
The costs in the Chctwynd-Durham case
were £lO,OOO. Sir Charles Russell and Sir Henry
James had a daily retainer of £lOO each.
The most indefinite heading we ever saw-
printed was in a Sydney newspaper the other day.
It ran : “Mr. Smith, M.P., at Cootamundra.”
It seems that when the alleged mur-
derer, Chemis, heard of the death of his self-
sacrificing counsel, he “ burst out crying like a
child.”
R. A. Loughnan, the most erudite of N.Z.
pressmen, has resigned the editorial chair of the
Lyttelton Times and taken over the literary
charge of the Catholic Times (Wellington).
Champion Searle, it now seems, has been
laid up with an abscess on the jaw. His opponent,
O’Connor, being of the clan of the N.S.W. Post-
master-General, is invulnerable on that point.
While Graham Berry earned a very honest
living he kept the Marlborough Store at South
Yarra, Melbourne. History now repeats itself.
He is again hanging round Marlborough House.
Bard Byrne, author of ‘ ‘ Fern Fronds and
Wattle Blossoms,” died at Geelong lately, aged 33.
The rapid spread of the wattle epidemic among
scrub poets was evidently more than he could bear.
As on his former visit, the London society
papers are commenting on the likeness that exists
between the Shah and Edmund Yates—a gentle-
man whose face, by the way, looks like an inverted
coffee-pot.
The German Emperor having made his
grandmother, our gracious Queen, a colonel of the
Prussian army, we do not pause to wonder how
she’d brook the battle’s storm, but wonder how in
thunder she wall look in uniform !
Four neglected children of an insane
mother were brought before the Melbourne City
Court last week. As a lamentable illustration of
the parents’ imbecility, it was mentioned that she
had caused her only son and heir to be christened
Albert Victor.
The retiring Mayor of Richmond (Melb.)
says that during his year of office he has been
officially alluded to as a “stuffed pig,” and that
his civic brethren “ have not hesitated to pour out
all the filth of their stomachs in one act.” That
last figure of speech is deserving of immortality.
Mr. Justice Hodges, of Victorian Supreme
Court, frequently takes off his wig and lays it on
the bench beside him. On one occasion the late
Sir Redmond Barry, presiding in the Criminal
Court, publicly called the late Joseph Henry
Dunne, Crown Prosecutor, to order for taking off
his wig when the sun was 1021 in the shade.
The two rival Sydney evening papers are
engaged in a fierce windy war over the cable-steal-
ing business. Says one paper in re the proprietor
of its rival: “Here the Fakir mopped his Jo-Jo
brow,” &c.
The Rev. Canon Roger, head-master of St.
Saviour’s School, Southwark, expressed a hope at
the West Southwark Conservative Club annual
dinner that “ Mr. Gladstone would not be alive
next year !”
David Christie Murray’s three principal
lectures are: “The Reporter,” “The Special
Correspondent ” and “The Novelist.” The Bulle-
tin is glad to hear that the lecturer does not in-
tend to write a book on Australia.
A kinsman of Horace Walpole, the Lev.
G. S. of that ilk, has forsaken his flock at Auck-
land, N.Z., for a tutorship in a New York theo-
logical college. He is, of course, to get a much
larger screw, and he has “ a love of a voice.”
The Prince of Wales is said to be a plucky
gami ler, and an admiring Yankee recently said of
him * 'hat he could raise a man a couple of hundred
an aco high, without winking.” However, the
Prince has no need to wink ; it is the British tax-
payer who does all the winking.
The venerable Dowager Duchess of Mont-
rose (“Mr. Manton ”) has aged very fast since
her marriage with a 25-year-old, and shows signs
of turning serious. Her stud of horses in training
are, it is said, on offer at £300,000. Baron Hirsch
offered £250,000, but this was refused.
The book of Benzon, the Jubilee Juggins,
“ How I Lost £250,000 in Two Years,” is not self-
written. Juggins simply supplied the notes to a
man on the staff of a London morning paper who
had already written a “ horsey ” novel, and the
latter is dishing them up for publication at 10s. a
volume.
H. T. Price, Pritchard Morgan’s one-time
law-partner at Rockhampton and elsewhere North,
went over to the eternal majority at Cooktown
last month. All the surviving boys of the old
school from Sydney to the Gulf will remember
Hartley Tudor Price. He died of the everlasting
old Northern disease.
Hamilton Clarke, the new London conduc-
tor of the Melbourne orchestra, is quite different-
looking from Cowen, except that they both have
the proper musical baldness coming, and are going
the way of David Lee. Clarke is tall, somewhat
thin, with a peculiar combination of nervousness
and decision in his conducting, with a long stick.
Commissioner Mathieson, the new Queens-
land Railway King, gets £3OOO a year, which
makes him £5OO better than Lilley (C. J.), but the
Chief Justice will take precedence of the loco-
autocrat at levees and other Government House
junctions. Query—how much dignity does it take
to make up for £5OO per annum shortage in screw ?
At David Christie Murray’s farewell
(Criterion) feed were assembled many Australians,
distinguished and otherwise—Haddon Chambers;
Dr. Caffyn, late of Melbourne, author of “Miss
Milne and I”; “Torpedo” Brennan; Brient,
of Sydney D.T. ; Henniker Heaton, with Ins
secretary, Charlie Lett, and many others. Ed-
mund Yates presided.
Says Truth ;—“ Lord Fife is no more a
descendant of Macduff than of Macbeth. He is
the descendant of a Scotch Jacobite pedlar, who
made Ins fortune, and who was created Earl
of life and Lord Macduff in the Peerage of Ire-
land in 1759. His name being Duff, he the
son or Max of Duff, but this Duff was n Relation
to Shakespeare's Macduff.”
A writer on the Eight-Hours Question in
the Nineteenth Century named Harold Cox has
had a curious career. Eight years ago an under-
graduate of Jesus (Cam.) and president of the
Union, he adopted Socialistic principles. Leaving
college, he decided to put these theories into prac-
tice, and became an agricultural labourer, which
position he still continues to occupy.
The Duchess of Aosta has presented her
husband, who is also her uncle, with a son and a
nephew. The husband, who is also the uncle, is
delighted that Ids niece, who is also his wife, has
been so thoughtful, and is said to be remarkably
fond of his new son, who is also his nephew'. The
infant’s grandfather, “Plon-Plon,” who is also
his first cousin, is said to have nearly choked with
delight.
Alderman Frank Brown, of Cairns (Q.),
had gone into his mine and was crawling towards
the face when he came plump on a big snake. He
gripped it near the neck, and when it began to
wriggle loose, he put his ears back and chewed it
through mouthful by mouthful. Counting the
piece Alderman Frank chewed off, it was 17 feet
2 inches long. Alderman Brown is a teetotaller.
Few people know why the late Sir Alexan-
der Stuart resigned (on the first occasion) the
N.S.W. Agent-Generalship, almost immediately
after his acceptance of the position. The fact is
that Sir Alex. Stuart was at the time acting for
the owner of a very large estate, who refused to
release him from the trust, and he, in conse-
quence, was compelled to resign his official posi-
tion.
Thirty years ago Millet, the greatest
French painter of his time, sold his Angelas for
£7O to a dealer, being at the time in great poverty.
The picture went on mounting up in value, and
was auctioned the other day for £22,000 ! Of
course none of the Millets are in it. Such money
is made by millionaires. One good point is that
the latest buyer of the Angelas gives it to the
National Collection at the Louvre.
Disraeli’s physician, Dr. Kidd, publishes
some reminiscem es of him. What killed Dizzy was
going out to a dinner-party in the depth of winter,
after being boxed up in the house. Just a whiff
of sleet through the barouche-door and the mischief
was done. Kidd makes out that Dizzy was coming
away from the Berlin Congress in a huff, when
Bismarck besought him to stop. This is incorrect.
The Berlin Congress was settled all beforehand in
London, as Marvin showed by his revelations.
POLITICAL POINTS
The world moves. The One Man One
Vote principle is recognised in the new N.Z.
Representation Bill.
The I. S. M. that haunts us—lmperial Snobs
Meddling. The I.S.M. that awaits us—lndepen-
dent Self-Management.
A. G. Taylor for one has been kept out of
the N.S.W Parliament of late, because there was
no payment of members.
Hopetoun! Kintore! Buccleuch’s brother I
Why this Caledonian invasion ? Can it be to
Scotch the snake of Australian republicanism ?
Premier Parkes says that “a judge’s notes
are his private property.” Indeed —most people
would have imagined that they are the property
of the community which pays him to take notes.
For attempting to evade the iniquitous
N.Z. Property Tax, one Reid was lately fined £5O
and treble the tax, at Wanganui. He was a little
hazy as to his belongings, and forgot to include
something like £10,250 in his return.
That disappointed and disregarded “Apostle
of Imperial Federation,” Mr. Parkin, leaves Aus-
tralia for his native Canada shortly, taking with
RIVAL BANKERS.
BRER RABBIT: " PLINTY OF FEED ON YOUR RUN?"
BUNNY ( thoughtfully): "YES OUR BANKS, AND THE TOWN BANKS WILL
HAVE A GOOD TIME."
mm a sadly tangled skein of silken bonds, and, it
is to be hoped, a somewhat reduced opinion of his
own importance.
The Times has devoted about 50 columns
of its space to the evidence given by Michel Davitt
before the Parnell Commission. The honesty and
straightforwardness of the most consistent of Irish
Democrats has therein been made so evident
that he has doubtless made many friends.
Says the Referee “If Parnell is destined to be
the Cavour of Ireland, Michael Davitt is its Gari-
baldi ; and we all know how Garibaldi quarrelled
with Cavour.”
Mr. Thomas Button, who is something in
the L.0.L., writes to the Sydney papers in answer
to M‘Elhone’s charge of favouritism to Orangemen
in Government billets, and shows that in some
recent reductions a number of Irishmen were
retained while a lot of Englishmen “got the sack ;”
but Mr. Lutton innocently forgot to mention that
these reductions were made in the Railway De-
partment and by the Commissioners, who, pre-
sumably, are not now under parliamentary, Irish,
or Orange pressure.
A “Poverty Society ” has been started in
Russia, the object qf which is to popularise poverty
among the poor, arid to teach them that their lot
is not one to be repined at, since the finest pleasures
of life can be enjoyed independently of money. A
London Tory paper, applauding this society’s
mission, hopes that “ it will not be carried too far.”
The lower orders, donoherknow, might get so
satisfied with their condition, as to neglect,
absolutely, the performance of any work and what
would become of the upper ten in that case?
Says the Melbourne D.T,:—
At Sydney, the capital of the mother colony of X.B.
, ales, a great indignation meeting has been held, in which
the mission and sentiments of Mr. Dillon were condemned
m the terms. A resolution was passed in-
dignantly protesting against the assertion contained in an
address from some Irish residents in Sydney, that “a large
majority of the colony were in favour of Home Rule;”
and a very moderately-worded amendment in favour of
Home Rule could not even find a seconder.
I his is news. Where was the meeting held, and
when?
Says London Life :
r , kir Hercules Robinson, who is a convert to Home
Kule, will seek a seat in Parliament at the first oppor-
tunity. His colonial career has made him a Radical, and
. stand as a supporter of Mr. Gladstone. It is
significant, however, that Sir Hercules is the only Colonial
. ' ernor of any eminence who has adopted Home Rule
views.
It is also significant that Sir Hercules Robinson is
almost the only Governor the colonies have had
who was not a distinguished noodle, a veneered
voluptuary, or a worn-out fossil.
One Henry Brooks lias triumphed over
a vain attempt by the English tax-collectors to
. saddle him with Income Tax on his Australian
business. Brooks is a well-known Melbourne
absentee, keeping a paperhanging and glass ware-
house in Elizabeth-,street. He gave £lOOO towards
r"? building of the Coll ins-street Independent
Churcln He may be congratulated on the failure
of the English to annex his coin, but it is a sug-
gestion that the Victorian Government ought to
sweat some more of it. There was once much
agitation about a tax on absentees. Why not ?
During the stonewalling of the Represen-
tation Bill in the N.Z. Parliament, Sir George
Grey said that Mr. Richardson, Minister of Lands,
was the best man in the Cabinet. This announce-
ment was received by the Press Gallery cum yrnno
sahs, and by the House with a burst of ironical
applause, which caused podgy little Mr. Richard-
son to blush deeply and blow his nose to hide his
emotion. “The hon. gentleman blushes,” con-
tinued the ancient one, cruelly, “and no doubt
agrees with me, but—(pausing to look critically at
the occupants of the Ministerial benches) — if he
be the best Minister we have, vhut must the others
be T’
Uprose the G.O.M. and said,
“ Of all our Ministers the best
Is Richardson ; he's far ahead,
Undoubtedly, of all the rest.
He blushes words like these to hear
About himself from one like me,
But if he is the best, oh dear !
. What duffers must the others be !”
The late Judge Gillies, of N.Z. Supreme
Court, was a cockatoo-farmer in Otago in the early
days. Editor Gillon, of Wellington, relates how
the future Judge helped him on one occasion to
milk the cows in the morning, when he stayed in
the Gillon mansion over night. The Judge’s
carriage in those days was a sledge drawn by a
bullock. The carriage and harness were the
Judge’s own manufacture. The bullock was also
built on the farm.
Patterson, the Melbourne Commissioner
of Customs just now, has always been celebrated
among journalists for his grog. He has been at the
Lands Office and the Railway Department, where
the newspaper-men were always prowling round.
They say he has got some sherry now and a sniff of
the cork is Elysium. They would sooner have
Patterson at the Customs than anywhere. Some-
how his cupboard is even better than Benjamin,
the Mayor’s, . Patterson takes the cream off the
best grog imported to Melbourne. They say no
real Chateau Margaux comes, but if one gallon
arrives Patterson will have a gill of it, while
Gillies smacks his gills in vain.
THE LEGISLATOR.
I’d like to be a member
And, with the members, stand
To pass some good and upright laws
To save my bleeding land.
And if the other members dared
Dispute each little law,
I’d ask each man to “ come outside ”
And “stouch” him in the jaw.
New York Life.
The New York Life Insurance Company has for
years occupied a leading position among the life-
insurance companies of the world, and, indeed,
among its largest financial institutions, and the
record for 1888 only served to strengthen this
position. It was not long ago that a new business
of two or three millions per annum was considered
large, but such a business sinks into insignificance
when contrasted with the £25,000,000 written by
this great company last year. This vast amount
was represented in 33,334 policies, and it means a
protection to upward of 100,000 persons—and all
in one year. At the close of the year the company
had 120,911 policies in force, insuring £80,390,400.
Just how absolute is the protection afforded by
this great amount at risk is well shown by the
'assets of nearly £20,000,000 and a surplus of
£2,777,777.
The gains for the year were as follows : Increase
in interest, £104,477 : increase in payments to
policyholders, £295,856 in surplus for
dividends, £88,015;. ■ intense . .in premiums,
£590,728; increase An -total income, £688,991; in-
crease in assets, £2,-139,988 ; mcrease in insurance
written, £3,759,349; increase in insurance in force,
£12,541,325.
During the past year the New. York Life dis-
tributed to policy-holders in the payment of death
claims, matured endowments, .dividends, etc.,
nearly £2,200,000, and since its organisation it
has returned to policy-holders in this manner,
over £23,400,000. The principal part of this was
for death claims and endowments, and what an
amount of relief to distressed homes and allevia-
tion of financial embarrassment this vast sum re-
presents ! And surely a life insurance company
that can show such a record as this can lay claim
to being “great.” Furthermore, these results
prove that there is no better protection for the
family, a man’s old age or his estate than a policy
in this grand company. Its financial strength,
equitable and liberal dealings with its policy-
holders and its attractive plans, all combine to
make it all that can be desired for those seeking
protection for the family or for their own future
needs. And so by its. past record, its present
financial condition and its liberal policy contracts
the New York Life commends itself to all who
need life insurance, and those who take its
policies can “ make no mistake.”


- ./ c
d
<so
,f £i
Ill^
ď
ytr fj /// i
fIL-, <2^
' jt/fA
đ
V
*
"W.
a
Kttr
't2< ■
The Slaughtered Innocents
PREMIER PARKER: “YET SHALL THEY LIVE AGAIN! I WILL RESURRECT NEARLY ALL AND PASS THEM OFF AS MY OWN.”


J'Quit - Look; fereyLfhery/TcCar/’qe /W,
sis fere Sudaenf/30/’ ula ’- ,/ /ff mr J aSa f rrA
O S/% rfC ft”' 7 /’
/’a/Ley, AuL-//-fo/yes raT/er
' /3v 7sf 6y p . // s~~ a TsyeSwe,
£f)f f Act cf CL f u y ec~CZ I— Cc l/fi/-y
% r 7"' / ' / 1 ,
Zs '#stf a ’&afjfcprptaafr '
0/ i da'/v /?&/>*'■', '/
<***'* f^ay.
/ jfurA/rur? "pact? oy cy/yrse
~ //egorf*
VM Card -
ketmfo 6e'& SriyiJ’orref
So!, tit ask you a
% hit
f afjbW'o'? w/t ' r
C. /# sff/> a 9 ,
waty, jay/": C
ftnahf f
W J fyey ea i f s l '
rnpor: C e
y ar *
Z .
’^ r pystf
/or 7Pqu.lct- r ,0 7 '
K <£/r )s >y Jet-rtte.
F/*sr Orae*f/
papers fa/faefae
'tie cfavP'o7
cun abscess oq fi/s
u)hich fiyay fa*// fa
' cfaycessojr aj/yfaS v
Clfa/ pf~ . 0 CO far
] Seco^PP t '^-
cl
maf-d/r ay 9°
9dfvod>.
fa all q / cc/(.
/sfa
HASH.


“HOGS HEAD” BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
F. B. WHEELER, & CO.,
265 Clarence Street,
S IT ID IN' IE IST.
COLONIAL dei>osit aii<i discoumt
82 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Arcade).
Deposits received and Interest allowed as follows •
3 Years 10 per cent.
12 Months 9 per cent.
0 Months ... ~, 8 per cent.
3 Months 6 per cent.
All customary banking business transacted
Communications to be addressed to
H. LIKELY, Manager,
vv. ±l. I’ ALI M(i & COMPANY, LIMITED,
365 George Street, SYDNEY,
TTAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of KTew Pianos
Also of the wonderful Victor Piaiaos and Bstey Organs ' ~No 7„ r * "v’ T* * v “ f ™ m^a > dinner, OOllard, and
y JNo such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
MB No 4 J, e vLfr leh^ i ? 5 ’ WMUrt. and other,
0 such V ancty or Value elsewhere for Hash Tm irci
Society
If continue as at present the mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Permanent Artillery will have
the last vestige of their accoutrements stolen by
the fair ladies of \\ oolloomooloo and the Hay-
We shall yet hear Dr. Creed asking
m Parliament whether the 25-ton guns are in
pawn, and if so since when, for how much and at
what rate of interest.
* * #
Says David Christie Murray ;
. Australians have all the characterists of an Englishman
m them, but, slightly accentuated, and, I dare say, for
good—certainly not for evil. They are bigger and sturdier
• men, but, best of all, they have that bluff, sturdy frankness
and open-hearted welcome in all their greetings and in all
their doings, which mark the Englishman above every
other race in the world. It is not so with the Americans.
Mr. Murray is a novelist, and has already com-
menced to dose us with flattery and fiction.
Despite his statements as above, the fact remains
that the Englishman is the most stand-off, haven’t-
been-introduced-to-you icicle this globe has yet
produced, while the American is the most hos-
jntable and unreserved. We have lived in both
countries.
Of the celebrated
Mount Morgan gold-
mine it is said that, one
way or another, tlui
lawyers have had by far
the largest dividends out
of it up to date. The legal
stampers are always at
work upon Mount Mor-
gan stuff. The Brisbane
courts are now thresh-
ing out Meyenberg v.
“Billy ” Pattison and the
Halls, a little £lOO,OOO
dispute about jiart-owner-
ship of the mountain.
Meyenberg poses as the
father of mining in
Queensland, having held
the first miner’s right,
occupied the first prospec-
ting-area, and erected the
first battery in the North.
The defendants are among
the wealthiest men in Aus-
tralia—two, if not all four'
of them, being regular
“old man ” millionaires.
The early history dis-
closures in the ease are
turning out 99ozs. of
greed and crookedness to
the ton of mullocky fact.
But worse is to come;
that mountain will yet
produce such a villainous
novel as a suffering world
has not yet seen.
* * *
A Melbourne tailor
is offering his customers
the extra inducement of
a “ |latent secret pocket”
in their pants. A high
bid for the custom of
married men.
% #
“ What is the pri-
soner ? ” said the Mel-
bourne beak. “ Fifty-
seven, ” responded the
clerk, referring to her
position on the list. This
appeared to agitate the
prisoner to her founda-
tions ; she turned pale-jiink, which deepened to
-salmon-colour, deep-red, and pale-blue, as her
feelings mounted and intensified. Then she ex-
ploded : “ It’s an infamous falsehood, your Wor-
ship,” she screamed : “ I was only 32 iii May.”
* ' * #
A Melbourne paper said, while the trial
was proceeding, that “there was no public sym-
pathy for Laversha”—the Sandhurst man who sued
Miss Wrangham for breach of jiromise. Quite
true. People save their sympathy for the man
whose girl does not back out.
# Jfc
A Melbourne widow was found floating on
her back in Hobson’s Bay recently, 300 yards from
St. Kilda Pier. She was screaming violently
when rescued by the police. Inquiries elicited
the fact thcit she held been missing Irom her home
for three days. The question arises—was she
floating all the time ? If so. what a giddy, buoyant
old Mary Ann she must be !
* # #
So “The Most Rev. Saumarez Smith ” is
to be Primate of N.S.W. Some of the theological
students of St. Aidan’s call him “oldSawmy.”
There is an evangelical weakness about some of
his sermons and writings that does not evoke
reverence from muscular Christianity of the
Charles Kingsley type. We trust that the follow-
ing specimen of tautology clipped from a Sydney
Morning Herald report of a late sermon may
not find its imitators :
Some will think they will be Theists, but will not stop
short of adoring Christ as div ine; they ivill reverence
Christ . . . \mt will not worship Him.”
Five “ wills ” in three lines !
* * *
In ancient times several men worked while
watched, with a club. Nowadays, in the
Is.S.W. Civil Service, one man watches, while
another man, with a handful of clubs, raises the
other fellows right out of their boots,
* * *
A N.S.W. piano-owning squatteress, de-
siring the services of a tuner on the station, was
asked by the operator interviewed as to where ho
should “put up ” during his visit. “In the men’s
hut, of course,” said the haughty dame. “Then
you had better get your tuner from the men’s hut,”
said the offended piano-tuner.
* * *
King George, of Tonga, is not now swing-
ing on Rev. Shirley Baker's gate, for in one of his
harangues lately, the burly godly-giddy premier
hit out at the national custom of dancing, and
preached forcibly against the decree lately made
ordering the young men and maids to perfect
themselves forthwith in tripping it lightly on
fantastic toe.
* * *
So Premier Salisbury wanted first to marry
the Prince of Wales’ daughter to his promising
son, Lord Cranbourne, and keep it all in the
family. Really it is shockingly cruel the way
they hawk these poor gals about. Fife’s portrait
shows an ugly, screwy, insignificant man, in a
small, ragged moustache. But she fell in love
with him—oh, she did. We wonder if the Prince
cf Wales owed Fife any fivers, any of the
THEY NEVER TRADED.
MERCHANT (to applicant for clerkship): “YOU ARE, I PRESUME. IN FAVOUR OF FREETRADE.'
ARISTOCRATIC THAT. YOU SEE OUR PEOPLE NEVER HAD ANYTHING
£900,000. You may be certain he touched up Fife a
little out of that tempting £BO,OOO a year. “ I say,
lend us a thou, old boy.” How can you refuse a
prince ?
Thus a N.Z. paper :—“ The mean three-
penny-bit and the fraudulent button are the
financial kings which reign over the churches in
New Zealand. The results are a general state of
ecclesiastical debt and starvation of church ser-
vices. The latest instance is the difficulty about
keeping up the beautiful music at the Christchurch
Cathedral.” Ditto at St. Andrew’s* Cathedral,
Sydney.
* * *
During a recent visit to Ravens wood (Q.)
the coloured Fisk Jubilee Singers, being refused
the privilege of sitting at the regular table of the
local hotel, cut their visit short. In Australia the
colour is usually drawn at the yellow skins, while
the blackfellow is accounted a “man and a
brudder. ”
* * *
That was a queer case Leversha against
vV rangham, at Sandhust. Breach of promise
against a woman—an old “geezer ”of 41 wanting to
make a girl of 25 marry him. Breach of promise
cases ought to be abolished, but for the fun they
afford to the big pit of a million newspaper-readers,
ihe fact is no woman ever brings a breach of
rri° m i? e cas ® a n ;l hist a poor man, and vice versa,
Ihe disappointment is in losing the money.
* * *
Thus Dagouet:—
Then died the sudden panic down, the nine davs’ wonder
waxed and waned,
And with them ceased the sudden fame “our only leper”
gained; - e
Society was satisfied, direct!v it felt sure
The only meat the leper touched teas eaten by the poor.
* * *
A cruel communication was recently made
to the editor of a N.Z. paper who fancied there
was something “crooked ” about an advertisement
from a labour-agent in the opposition paper. The
agent advertised for a married couple, “man to
milk,” &c., in the usual way, and the editor sent
his boy round with a memo, without any signa-
ture, asking for further particulars. The boy had
not been properly posted up in his role, however,
and innocently divulged to the agent who it was
had sent him. That individual immediately sat
in 11 . ‘? n Af 0a Ktter to the following effect:
lo the Editor of the Daily Blowhard.— Sir,—
In reply to your note asking for information about
the married couple’s billet, I can see from the way
in which you edit your paper that you are qualified
to milk a cow, &c., and I think you would suit.
Blease inform me if your wife is a good cook, and
on receiving your reply and my fee of ss. I will
send you the desired information. I am,” &c.
* * #
<( fancy-dress ball. Sister Ann :
Jack, I thought you said there was a grizzly
bear.” Jack ; “So there is, look—going through
to the conservatory.” “ Why, that’s Mrs. Striiwy
in ordinary evening dress.” “Well, isn’t that a
gristly bare ?”
* * *
The Bulletin recommends to the con-
sideration of its lady readers the following ex-
tract from a prize-book distributed by the Imperial
Government in the girls’ schools of the Bombay
Presidency :
If the husband of a virtuous woman be ugly, of good 01-
bad disposition, diseased, fiendish, irascible, a drunkard
old, stupid, dumb, blind, deaf, hot-tempered, poor ex-
tremely covetous, a slanderer, cowardly, perfidious and
immoral, nevertheless she ought to worship him as a <-od
with mind, speech, and person. The wife who gives an
angry answer to her husband will become a village pariah
dog ; she will also become a female jackal, and five in an
uninhabited desert. The woman who eats sweetmeats
without sharing them with her husband will become a
hen-owl living in a hollow tree. The woman who walks
alone without her husband will become a filth-eatin<>-
Village sow. The woman who speaks disrespectfully to
her husband will be dumb in the next incarnation. The
woman who hates her husband’s relations will become
from birth to birth a musk-rat living in filth. She who is
always jealous of her husband’s concubine will be childless
in the next incarnation.
This is the ill-concealed opinion of the average John
Bull, but he s too civilised to state his opinions so
clearly—in England.
* * *
A meeting of a School of Arts committee
was held lately in a Northern N.S.W. township
to frame rules. “Clause four,” said the local
clergyman, looking at the papers, “ought now I
think, to be deleted. ” “ Oh—ah ; ” said the chair-
man, that’s just about what we ought to do with
3t. But, perhaps, it would be better to leave it
out altogether.”
* * *
“The Emperor William of Germany has
appointed Her Majesty the Queen to be Honorary
Colonel of the First German Dragoon Guards, and
has named the regiment after her. A deputation
from the regiment left Berlin for Osborne yester-
day fpr the purpose of enabling the officers to pre-
sent their respects to Her Majesty ’’—the Colonel.
—( Cablegram).
Scene in swell Melbourne suburb. Small
boy with yellow curls and an ingenuous air—a
very small boy, just vacillating between petticoats
and abbreviated pants—issues from the garden-
gate of an elegant residence occupied by a legal
bigwig. The youngster is astride a wooden horse;
with budding ingenuity, he has decorated it with
a beautiful head of long, black, silken hair
wonderfully like that which, on the head of his
handsome mother, has attracted so much admira-
tion. Presently appears lady’s maid evidently in
a great wax, glances right and left, spies the boy,
and pursues him. A long chase, and a capture.
Triumphant return of lady’s maid with a mass of
tumbled, ebon locks tucked under her apron
Curtain.
* %
An old woman, 101, appeared before
Magistrate Call, in Melbourne, a few days back-
charged with vagrancy, and was sent to Geelong
gaol, the Victorian Workhouse, to finish her days!
The old woman never smoked a pipe of tobacco in
her life. Ihe moral is obvious—eschew tobacco-
smoking and you may live to be 101 and die in
gaol,
* * *
A woman, who was fined 10s. in a Mel-
bourne Court last week, for drunkenness, imme-
diately turned round and endeavoured to borrow
that suni from the Bench. This is the average
woman’s idea of finance.
* * *
Ihe other day the Fitzroy (Vic.) branch of
the A.Is.A. debated “What is the most pro-
mment vice in Australia ? ’ The answer is palpable
Vice-royalty.
* * *
Said Mrs. Malaprop, of Toorak, the other
day to Pluche ; “ Why do you bring me letters in
your naked ands ? What is your saliva for ?”
* # #
Aiter a recent English State bad, the
Shah s attendant missed one of his master’s
diamonds from its setting in his shoulder-belt.
f ertunately for him before breakfast next morn-
mg one of Queen Victoria’s servants appeared
with the missing jewel. “ There,” said he, hand-
mg the gem to the Shah s overjoyed slave, “is
your guv’nor’s diamond. And vou may tell him
from me as it/s precious lucky for him none of the
guests found it !”
* * *
Dr. L. L. Smith, who was specially
selected to strike up “God Save the Queen”in
the V ictonan Assembly, seems to have warbled
all m vain, and the heart that beats behind his
wide expanse of starched linen is filled with a
spirit of rebellion. When Lord Knutsford de-
creed than an Australian legislative title “was
peculiar ” (and very peculiar) to the colony
wherein it was assumed, the Smith in question
wrote off to the Marquis of Salisbury, demanding
to know why all the nations of the earth should
not call him (Smith) “ honourable?” He referred
to his ancient services in the Executive Council of
Victoria, to which he had been elected by the
votes of grateful patients. It is generally asserted
that he reminded Salisbury of the “National
THE SEVEN STAGES OF A DEAD-BEAT.
(After Shakespeare.)
At first the pallid, pelican-legged youth puking
over side of Australian liner.
And then the gorgeous new-chum, with stick, eye-
glass, and careful morning shave, goes daily
forth to awe the natives, until, with money
spent, he turns, like snail, unwilling, in search
of Civil service billet.
And then the disappointed applicant, sighing like
a furnace with a woeful letter home appealing
for remittance.
Then “an unemployed” full of strange schemes
and bearded like the pard (lacking the neces-
sary “thrum”) disputing with his landlady,
sudden and quick to leave, losing the bubble,
reputation, e’en though he saves his “duds.”
And then the “remittance man,” blossoming
forth once more on timely draft from home,
with eyes severe, and but a formal nod for all
his quondam unemployed acquaintance, full
of colonial wine and fresh diversions, and so
he parts his cash.
The sixth stage shifts into the lean, forlorn dead-
beat, with closely-buttoned coat its duty
doubled, his Bond-street pants, sometime a
perfect fit, are now a world too wide for his
shrunk shanks, and his loud affected drawl,
turning toward a husky wheeze, shakos and
quavers in its sound.
Last scene of all that ends this dude’s Australian
history: his nightly couch, the bleak Domain
and cold oblivion. His daily hope, the last
remittance that lands him in his native land,
sans money, sans sense, sans truth, sans every-
thing save a hearty contempt for the “blawsted
kawlinies ” where no idlers need apply.
ST. GEORGE AND THE DRAGOON.
O ! hitherto a peaceful life
Our blessed Queen has led ;
Her sword has been a table-knife.
The only blood it shed
Was gravy on her royal plate,
f And when with courage rash
She made her charges on the State,
She merely charged in cash.
“Presenting alms,” indeed, they’ve been
(A thousand pounds per day)
For fifty years unto their Queen,
Yet not in warlike way ;
But now when she comes driving by,
Morn, night, or afternoon,
The people in the street will cry
“St. George and the Dragoon !”
East week her eldest daughter’s son
(The German soldier Chief)
Conferred a martial title on
Pre-eminence-in-Grief ;
And now when Billy bows Ids head
To her, we all revere,
He calls her his Dragoon, instead
Of saying “ Granny, dear.”
The troopers she is Colonel of
May soon be on the kill,
And then the buzzum of our Sov.
With ecstasy will thrill;
She’ll lie in bed and talk of gore,
She’ll rather die than yield ;
iNo doubt she’ll get a medal for
Her valour in the field.
Salute, ye cringing C.M.G.’s
And honest loyal loons,
That lady stout across the seas
As Colonel of Dragoons ;
And when she goes to Join the brave
Who in the Kingdom dwell,
Be sure ye murmur o’er her grave—
“ She like a soldier fell.”


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT & DISCOUNT BANK,
90 —KING STREET— 90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
9| per cent.
Sf per cent.
7i per cent,
5J per cent.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
WHY YOU SHOULD USF
Scott’s Emulsion
opOcscl
HYPOPHOSPHSTSS.
X£ is used and endorsed by JPhysi~*
cians because it is the best .
It is Palatable as Milk.
It is three times as efficacious as plain
Cod Liver Oil.
It is far superior to all other so-called
Emulsions.
It is a perfect Emulsion, does not sepa-
rate or change,
It is wonderful as a flesh producer.
It is the best remedy for Consumption,
Scrofula, Bronchitis, Wasting Dis-
eases, Chronic Goughs and Colds,
Sold by all Chemists .
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
Robertson’s Whisky.
£2OO
F3EIIZSS.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
16 of £5 each, 33 <£2, and 70 <£l,
Pamphlets from the Agents, ALLT & 00., x,i**xitecaL, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
Anthem ” incident, and pathetically touched upon
the fact that he beat time with his brolly on that
historic occasion. It is vaguely hinted that he
enclosed a medical pamphlet*as proof of his labours
in the cause of suffering young manhood. But
Salisbury merely sent the letter along to Knuts-
ford, whereupon that bloated aristocrat told poor
Smith, gently but firmly, that he could be as
“honourable” as he liked anywhere save in hia
dear old Mother Country. Furthermore, Knuts-
ford referred to L.L. as a “private individual,”
which was rough on his professional reputation.
So the mercurial doctor doesn’t believe in Hing-
land any more ; the thought of Imperial Federa-
tion alarms and disgusts him, while he is prepared
to yell the “Wearing of the Green” when Gillies
orders another loyal demonstration. The Minstrel
Boy will now oblige
In Louise’s bridegroom the English papers
—scarcely done gushing over Portland—have dis-
covered another paragon of virtue. Says the
London correspondent of the Sydney Morning
Herald :
Lord Fife is an intimate friend of the Prince of Wales,
is popular, and has none of what are considered the vices
of the higher aristocracy—that is, he is not a racing man,
has not kept horses for the turf, does not gamble, is un-
known to the betting-ring, is not the hero of a single
scandal, and is generally regarded as a thoroughly good
fellow.
This style of writing clearly shows the rottenness
underlying the veneer of English high society.
So unusual is it to see an innocent girl aceom
panied to the altar by a peer who has not kicked
his first wife to an early grave, eloped with Iris
neighbour’s spouse, cheated at cards, “pulled”
a racehorse, or welshed the betting-ring—that,
when such a rara avis is found, it is necessary to
laud loudly his freedom from glaring vice.
* # *
In defence of the fashion of flirting with
grooms, English society girls urge that they are
impelled to this course by “the shameless manner
in which the married women mop up the young
men.”
* * #
At St. Leonards (Sydney) there is, it ap-
pears, a publican who supplies liquor to school-
girls and makes them drunk. This gentleman
should be interviewed by the detectives on an
early date.
* # *
Lord Charles Thomas Montague Douglas-
Scott, C. 8., who married “ the cousin of Lady
Clarke,” is to succeed Admiral Fairfax as com-
mander of the Australian squadron, which, it is
probable, will be joined by the jolly young Prince
George of Wales, who has the honour of being
rather liked by The Bulletin. The arrangement
is good, so far, perhaps, as the circulation of a
little money is concerned, but its consequences, in
point of grovel, can be estimated by no man under
heaven.
* # *
The pious Melbourne Daily Telegraph
has for years been trying to shut up breweries and
have vineyards rooted up. Now its clerical con-
ductors have got up a Van Yean scare and won’t
let people drink water !
* * #
“ Her Excellency” the Countess of Onslow
narrowly escaped being killed by a milk-cart at
Wellington, N.Z., the other day. However, all
milk-carts are not engines of death. In N.S.W.,
not many years ago, a milk-cart gave a very con-
venient lift to a Governor’s wife.
A Launceston (Tas.) billiard-marker named
Frederick Meyrick dropped dead just after finish-
ing a game of billiards at the International Hotel.
Of late several doctors have been charged
with thieving. What a compliment to the Aus-
tralian climate ! Presently the lawyers will be
charged with theft.
* * #
The Sydney Morning Herald’s evening
edition tells us, under the heading “An Amusing
Divorce Case,” how a husband threw water on his
wife, gave her a black eye, and broke her teeth.
Every man has his own ideas of humour. Con-
stable Slater wore a false beard, and thought it
an immense joke. And now the Fairfaxes chuck -
ingly tell us about this fine, hilarious, funny man
who hit “ the missus ”on the“ jor.” If this kind
A POLICE JOKE.
“The constable deposed that he sometimes wore a false beard for a joke.”
The joke was that a bearded face doesn’t disguise a policeman’s feet.
of thing continues, we’ll begin to think that some
of the young Fairfaxes have been to Hingland.
# * *
One of Lord Fife’s divorcee sisters is mar-
ried to a London stockbroker, while yet another
of the damaged ladies has returned to the paths of
respectability as the wife of a medical man. The
children of these marriages will, in the usual
course of nature, call Tummy’s grand-children
their first-cousins, and this filtering of “ royal-
blood ’i into the middle classes must eventually
knock a hole in the majesty which doth hedge a
king, and so prepare the tradition-haunted minds
of the bourgeoisie for the coming overthrow of
hereditary monarchy. Her Gracious may, how-
ever, upset these calculations by making the
doctor and stockbroker aforesaid into dukes, for the
old lady is a perfect whale in the art of bolstering
up the blessed Throne. Quick thinking doesn’t
run in the Guelph family, but the fact will slowly
dawn upon Vic. Regina that she should have
hitched Louise of Wales to another serene German
with no plain misters hanging on to him. Then
she may arrange to ennoble Fife’s brother-in-law
and shove ’em into the Litany. Fancy the prayers
of a nation going up for a stockbroker!
* # *
There is grievous groaning amid the old
fogies in Melbourne academic circles over the
Democratic poison in the university and colleges.
Professor Pearson got the kick-out from the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College because he ventured
to speak in favour of Liberalism. This is what
has given him such an “edge” on the Victorian
squattocraoy and shoddyocracy. The Ladies’
College authorities were so fearful about the
politics that they never bestowed a thought on
nourishing such an asp as Madame Nellie Melba,
the Paris opera singer, whose name rings thx-ough
this pious college from morn till dewy eve. The
Rev. Mungo Macmalagrowther swabs his brow and
says, “Aye, brithren, it’s a fearfu’ thing.” The
poor girls hardly dare chant a psawlm. If one of
them goes off into II Bacio, or anything Italian,
she will be marked till the deevil is taken out of
her.
Then the Church of England Grammar School
authorities “ sacked ” that first-class scholar
and amiable teacher, Professor Morris, Dr.
Bromby’s successor as principal, because he dared
to lecture at Emerald Hill in favour of liberal land
legislation and against squatterdom, the most
frightful heresy of which he could have been
guilty. You see he married Chief-Justice Higin-
botham’s daughter, and went the way of Higin-
botham, who posed in his time as the Victorian
Robespierre. Higinbotham leavened Morris with
his notions and Morris bravely sticks to them,
* * #
The Prince of Wales has just had £40,000
yearly added to his income, and Robert Fisher
has been summoned at Shipston-on-Stour for pay-
ment of arrears of Is. a week for the support of
his mother, an old woman between 80 and 90.
These arrears at present amount to £3lls. Asked
for an explanation, Fisher replied thus ;
It’s no use, I can’t pay it. Look at my head. Ibe
between 60 and 70 year old. Ever since I was nine year
old I have been at work. My wife’s a poor, helpless
creature. Her had a stroke, and about 15 months ago I
got kicked on the thigh by a horse. You know Ibe a
carter. My wages be 12s. a week. It don’t lie in mv
power to do anything-; and I beant so strong as I used to
be. I pays into the Tysoe Club to keep ourselves off the
parish.
A constable having stated that Eisher had no
goods worth distraining on, the old man was
ordered to pay up in a fortnight, or go to prison.
That is to say, a poverty-stricken toiler of 70 years
is to save £3 11s. out of 245. in 14 days. That’s
clearly impossible, and if Fisher can’t borrow,
beg, or steal the money, to gaol he goes. Britain
is a very Issachar among the nations.
* * *
Governor Kintore and his Countess at-
tended the Masonic ball at Broken Hill and
struck people as being very indifferent dancers.
In the third figure of the Lancers the Earl wished
to know if the prevailing feature was “women in
the middle.” The Countess was so paralysingly
decolletee that the shears will be at work on all the
ladies’ dresses before the next Broken Hill ball.
*# . #
It is time that the stage uncle, who distri-
butes wealth untold among his nephews and
nieces, were gone for ever. The man who shot
himself in Hyde Park, Sydney, the other morning,
after making a will in favour of his uncle has
turned the tables :
The uncle so generous played on the stage
By the first or the second man heavy,
Too long has remained all the fashion and rage—
Now we want the beneficent nevvy.
# * *
From a N.S.W. Anglican Synod report:—
Has the President’s attention been called to a series of
entertainments which were lately held in St. Georoe’s
Hall, Newtown, on behalf of the funds of Christ Church
Enmore, consisting of the following“ Skating’’
o‘Nigger Minstrels,” “Living- Waxworks,” and “Sleeping
Beauties ?” Whether such entertainments are not a dis-
grace to the Church of England ? And whether the Synod
intends to take any steps to prevent a repetition of such
proceedings, which have been so frequently condemned ?
Now, who would ever have thought that “Sleep-
ing Beauties ” were out of place at a church enter-
tainment? As for the “Nigger Minstrels,” the
parson, utterly devoid of humour, is unable by
himself to attract an audience where money is
taken at the doors. Though at present indisposed,
to despise his sooty ally, lie will by and by recog
nise the wisdom of his deaconate in hiring the
Bents and Keenans to make good his deficiencies.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, — Here is a very important
cablegram:—
The Earl op Hopetoun. —London, August 10.— The
freedom of the town of Linlithgow will be conferred upon
the Earl of Hopetoun, the new Governor of Victoria, on
the 28th inst. [Hopetoun-house, one of the earl's country
seats, is in Linlithgowshire. ]
Now, I know Linlithgow; there is skating (not
linking) and pike-fishing and a palace there; also
hunting-dinners ; but the freedom costs only three
halfpence, accompanied by the words “ a half yin,
please;” but if you add “the best,” it costs two-
pence. Then, again, Hopetoun-house is free to
picknickers (I use the k’s, knowingly), and has a
great rarity—a black swan. I fancy it came from
Australia; but I saw what was (fourteen years or
so afterwards) an anomaly to me in the grounds of
Hopetoun. A second-lieutenant of marines landed
his men from the ship Edinburgh for drill, and
deserted on my invitation, preferring claret-cup to
pile-firing. There’s nothing very bad in that, but
he turned up as a major of artillery at Dawes’
Point some years afterwards, and refused to
enlist me in the Permanent Artillery, solely, I
believe, because I wore silk stockings and was
slightly tossieated. He was afterwards, with 18
brothers, in the Soudan. There’s not much of
public interest in this, but it will do for an intro
duction to Hopetoun, and perhaps the latter will
stand the Major (or is he a colonel ?) a long-beer
on the strength of the single-handed pitch about
his ancestral halls. —Yours, Scotty W.
P.S.—To show you how quickly OCR corres-
pondence is conducted, and in violent contradis-
tinction to the valuable wire printed in the Argus,
I send you a paper-cover which was addressed to
me in a Victorian hospital by your typewriter on
the 23rd April, visited Stockton-on-Tees Ist June,
and was delivered to me near Wangaratta 10th
July this year.
* x *
Down in Melbourne the police arrested a
young man for being drunk and disorderly and
creating a riot, and the culprit proved conclusively
that lie had never tasted drink in his life, and at
the time of his arrest was on his way home from a
meeting of the Primitive Methodist Temperance
Society. The festive Melbourne bobbies ran him
in nevertheless, and he will probably take to the
flowing bowl, as he finds that, temperance or not,
he gets to the watch-house just the same.
* * #
It is related in Brisbane that the other
day a lady, who indirectly enjoys a big slice of
Mount Morgan mine, drove up to the principal
fruiterer’s, where she ordered half-a-dozen of
sugar bananas—“and send them round quick,
please. ”
* * *
An invalid traveller had an adventure
lately, while coaching between Bourke and Wil-
cannia. He was suddenly taken ill, and had to
remain ata wayside pub. (“The Whaler’s Delight
spirits a shilling a nobbier). There was nothing
on the premises to tempt his appetite, and he was
growing weaker, when the landlady, becoming
anxious, suggested that she might possibly get him
a fowl, a luxury on that track. It was duly served,
and so much relished that he became fit to con-
tinue his journey by next coach. Imagine his feel-
ings. whilst waiting outside for the coach’s arrival,
to hear the landlady boasting to a female friend of
the way in which she had “had” the passenger
by dishing up a fowl that had been, deceased for
two days before his arrival! Price, five shillings.
Roast goat at same figure.
* # 5S
Nut long ago, in N.Z., a Swiss labourer,
. who had imbibed freely in a country town near
Wellington, sang the “ Marseillaise ” when going
down the street. He was immediately “ run in ”
and charged with “ using bad language.” “What
was the language made use of ? ” asked the P.M.
“ Sure, sorr, I don know, but it was bad lang-
witch,” said Robert. After the P.M. had made
several ineffectual attempts to get the officer to
repeat the language someone in court informed
him that Antonio had only sung the “ Marsel-
laise.” Said the P.M. : “Oh ! if that is all we can
let him off with ss. ”
Let’s sing about a doctor bold,
The advertised “Hell, Hell,”
He physics up the young and old
Who are not “feeling well ” ;
He stands upon a height alone,
A man of point and pith,
And in the colony he’s known
As “ Honourable ” Smith.
O ! very mad is good “ Hell Hell,”
His anger is sublime,
He can’t be “feeling very well ”
Just at the present time ;
His title, when he travels far,
Is something of a myth,
Although within Victoria
He’s “Honourable” Smith.
The doctor wrote a letter “home,”
Asserting of his claim
To take where e’er he chose to roam
A handle to his name,
That he might pose before his Queen
And all her kin and kith
(Those dukes and highnesses serene)
As “Honourable” Smith.
But when he got a missive back
Denying him this right
The doctor looked uncommon black—
Or rather, very white ;
He put a little laurel wreath
Around his skull therewith,
And cried, “ I’m on my native heath,
I’m Honourable Smith. ”
Then let us thump the office drum
And sing a joyous strain,
For out of evil good will come,
And pleasure waits on pain ;
The doctor now is reconciled
To living with us, sith
Upon his tombstone he’ll be styled
The “Honourable” Smith.
He was putting his cue in the cue-rack,
Having finished by potting the red,
When lo! the unfortunate Meyriok
Proceeded to tumble down dead ;
But though he has finished with billiards,
Has certainly given it best,
For thousands of years (perhaps milliards)
He’ll always be taking a “rest.”
No more will he try a “long jenny, s 7
Or score off the coveted “ spot,”
Or trouble to wonder how many
The “juggins ” he’s playing has got;
No more will he notice, astounded,
How simple a stroke he has “ messed ■
And yet till the Trumpet has sounded
He’ll always be taking a “ rest.”


Amusements.
|£ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
LAST EIGHTS OF
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD and Miss KATE BISHOP,
in the Great Sensational Drama,
PEEP O’ D A "ST.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. I*. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon,
fuller the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, and EVERY EVENING
Until Further Notice, Grand Revival
of '
Oliver Goldsmith’s Masterpiece,
Since Stoops to Conquer.
The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Mr. Robert Brough.
New Scenery, Costumes, and Accessories.
Admission ... i‘2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
NEW OPERA HOUSE,
Kins and York Streets.
Lessee and Manager Mr. John Solomon.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. John Solomon’s English and Comic Opera
Company, under the Musical Direction of
Mr ”H. T. HARKI S O N.
LAST THREE NIGHTS'. LAST THREE NIGHTS!
of Bellini’s Charming Opera in 3 acts,
SOJNTKTiiLMBXJX.A.
Produced under the personal direction of
MR. HENRY BRACY.
POPULAR 0 PRICES:
Dress C rcle, 3s. ; Orchestra Stalls, 3s. ; Stalls,
2s. ; Pit, Is.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s.
In active preparation, Jb'auist.
JOE DAYIS Business Manager.
C°Y y C c L I 0 °R K A A M m A A
What is it? The greatest show on earth. The most
extraordinary illusion ever presented to the public.
The perfect representation of the climax of one of
the greatest conflicts in history. It cannot he de-
scribed. It must I c seen.
E# ’ Opposite Ifedfern Hallway Station
Open 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sundays, 3 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission, 2s. Children, Is.
On Sunday next, to meet those who cannot afford our
ordinary charges, the Cyclorama will be open from 3 to
10 p.m. at a charge of Is. for Adults, Children Cd.
AT THE AUSTRALIAN WAXWORKS,
558 Gkoroe-Strbet. Sydney,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
MR. ERA N K M. CL A R K’S
Latest Sensation,
Engaged by him during his recent tour round the ■
world from P. T. Barnnm.
J o-Jo,
THE RUSSIAN DOG-FACED BOY.
A Human with a Canine Head.
The Regal Ruler of Recreative Research. The j
August Autocrat of Mankind's Marvels.
JO-JO HOLDS RECEPTIONS DAILY
from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.
In conjunction with JO-JO many oSier Famous
Freaks and Novelties will be exhibited, including i
ÜBINPS PERFORMING FLEAS,
From the Crystal Palace, London.
ADMISSION ... ONE SHILLING.
rpHEATRE ROYAL
Under the Management,'of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove. -
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
The Famous ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
IN
Every -pi; ■ ■ » Every
Evening ~ Evening
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
METROPOLITAN SKATING RINK
Harris Street, Ultimo.
Nearest Rink to Redfern Railway Station.
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony.
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!!
10 to 12 a.m.-Ladies and Children only; Admis-
sion FREE; Skates, 6d.
2.30 to 5 p.m.—Admission ; Ladies, 6d., Skates, 1
6d.; Gentlemen, Is., Skates, 6d.
7.30 to 10 p.m.—Admission to all, Is.; Skates, 6d.
LO O K OU T
FOB
Future Novelties.
FLO O FI AGE FREE.
Pykmont a.nd Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
Lessee-and Manager ... JOHN R. GEE.
gCHOOL OF ARTS.
THE SYDNEY LAUGHING SEASON—
Now at its full height.
EVERY EVENING at EIGHT O'CLOCK
The Greatest Living Mesmerist,
Mr. T. A, KENNEDY,
appears in his ■
Mystifying and Marvellous Entertainment!
Approaching the Borderland of the Supernatural,
and providing, in addition,
IT NO END OF LAUGHTER!
Popular Prieaa Box Office «■* Nioholaon'*,
Amusements.
JgONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular '
PICNIC AND PLEASURE GROUNDS OP AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying'
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
. Opep Daily from 10 toll) p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, Id.
Shipping.
TTNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW
v ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE,
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Males and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon. -
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Ounard,
Inman. White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and guide books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application.
. 1 or rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply to
FRED. W. JACKSON, Manager.
Offices: 15 Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CUKE GUARANTEED.
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA^
Good Chance for Syndicate to show how Money
can be made.
FOR SALE 250 Acres at £25 per Acre,
Situate in the delightful suburb of Youngtown,
three miles from G.P.0., on main road to Hobart,
capable of being cut up into eight miles of frontage.
High land. 3d. 'Bus, and close to St. Leonards
Railway Station. Town rapidly extending in that
direction.
SHEEP STATION, 3260 Acres,
adjoining Yorktown, on river Tamar, near Tas-
manian Goldfield and the Ilfracombe Paint Works.
Good road and Steamers Daily. 425. per acre.
Improved Farms, Town and Suburban Properties
Eoe Sale.
W. !R,. MARSH,
Agent,
St. John Street, Launceston, Tasmania.
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO A CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Havana all Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor de Bonito ”
Branfl of .Cigars aud. “ Empire Cigarettes.”
THE , BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
’ Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
_ Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
WALTER H OPE
General Merchant & Commission Agent, ?
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
C CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.
J received and realised in the best markets. Aocomi
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Order
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesal
Prices
Speciality.—Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de
scnptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Settins
to, be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrk
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
|£EEFS PATENT UNBREAKABLE SADB
Company, Limited.
Factory and Office : 227 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
(Late 245.)
NEW STYLE OF TREE.
The Company is now prepared to manufacture a
kinds of Saddles. Any infringement of the patent will I
prosecuted. No Saddle genuine without our Trade Marl
ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary,
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Skow-wh
Patent Rollbr Flour, It is the greatest success of (
Miscellaneous.
S. PR BEHAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDERS,
||rient Square ||luc,
Extract of Soap,
Ipnegar, Blacking,
&c., &c., &c.
Steam Works and Brewery :
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDN E Y,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
D
Shipping.
IREOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers, i S
Commander.
Victoria .. ;6268 G. F. Cab*
Ballaarat .. 4748 E. Ashdown
Parramatta 4771 R. G. Murray
Rosetta .. 3525 G. W. Brady
Massilia .. !4918 0. Fraser ..
Oceana ~ 6362 P. S. Tomlin
. Aug. 31 ! Sep. 6 Sep 9
. Sep. 14 Sep. 20 Sep 23
. Sep. 28 Oct. 4 Dot. 7
. Oct. 12 Oct. 18 Oct 21
. Oct. 26 iNov. 1 Nov. 4
.iNov. 9 iNov. 15)Novl8
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
riOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARL
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government ol
France, calling at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
ticvivi V/iI UIU itmi KJJI Ccl'Ui 11UJ11 Lit.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65
including table wines and Sues Canal dues on passengers
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
■■ ’ - ■ lll 1 i j- .v i' l> 'mv! i uinuugu passengers 10
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and aocom
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost fron
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply a
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
N
ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
I/IUK SALS. A Quantity of Second-hand
1 NEWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
and bulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer, Bulletin Office.
Furniture, &c.
EWT 0 N AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAR EHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PI ANOFORTES, by R. LIP P mid SO lIN
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
SS™™ leb^ ted Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
Sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in variom
V\ oods, and very handsome designs, witl
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes fui
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAM B,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. —The Economic
bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washkand,
WltJ b„ °. wel Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LANB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable earl
English designs-—Wardrobe 4 feet, wit
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marbl
top and tile back and Towel Rail • Toilet Tab!,
with Swmg Glass attached; Pedestal Cut. hoar
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON LAMB,
O' COXX ELL AND SPRING STREETS.
ď
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Cd.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet,
SUPER OR WHITE 11 AM 800 BLINDS.
6 x 8, 8 x 8, 9 x 8, 10 x 8, 12 x 8, at low prices.
đ
Austrian bent-
wood
V U RN ITUR E.
Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs,
Newton & Lamb.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord. 6 x 8,6 s. 6d.; 8 x 8
95.; 9 x 8,9 s. 6d.; 10 x 8,10 s. 6d.; 12 x 8,12 s. 6d.;
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
ď
MERIC AN PATEN T
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
đ
(
iANYAS FOLDING
J
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light,
Suitable for Shipboard and
V erandah.
Pkice Vkrv Low.
N EWTON and LAM B
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O'Connell Streets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
d 4 ARDEN SEATS, 19s, Verandj* - Chairs'
VX Indian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB.
tVaTTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
_IA; 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street. •
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
EWT O N AND LAM B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
AND


FORTY-FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO.,
Office: Nos. 346 & 348 Broadway, New York.
1, 1889.
Amount of Net Assets, January 1, 1888 ....
It EVEN HE ACfOI \T.
£ s. d.
Premiums 4,588,874 14 3
Less deferred premiums, January 1, ISBS 241,633 16 4
Interest and Rents, «Sic 979,870 6 1
Less Interest accrued January 1, 1888 100,509 15 id
DI«KI KSKHEXT A«OI \T.
IjOsses by death, and Endowments matured and discounted (including rever-
sionary addit ions to same)
Dividends (including mortuary dividends', annuities, and purchased insurances
Total paid to Policy-holders £2,257,833 6s. 10d.
taxes and re-insurances
Commissions (including advanced and commuted commissions) brokerages,
agency expenses, physicians’ fees, &c
ifflee and law expenses, salaries, advertising, printing, &c
ASSETS;
Cash on deposit, on hand, and in transit
Jnited States Bonds and other bonds and stocks (market- value
£11,979,990 2s. 3d.)
leal Estate
lends and Mortgages, first lien on real estate (buildings thereon insured for
£2,839,506 3s. 5d.,. and the policies assigned to the Company as additional
collateral security)
Temporary Loans (market value of securities heid as collateral £441,290 2s. 6d.)
Loans on existing policies (the Reserve on'these policies, included in Liabilities,
amounts to over £411,522 12s. Bd.)
Quarterly and semi-annual premiums on existing policies, due subsequent to
January 1,1889 ;
Premiums on existing policies in course of transmission and collection. (The
Reserve on these policies, included in Liabilities, is estimated at
£308,641 19s. 6d.)
tgents’ Balances .
vccrued interest on investments, January 1, 1889.
lARKBT VALUE OF SECURITIES OVER COST VALUE OX COMPACT'S BOOKS
fA detailed schedule of these items will accompany the usual annual
report filed with the Insurance Department of the state of New York.
Jotal Assets, January 1, 1889
APPROPRIATED AS FOLLOWS :
Approved losses in course of payment
Reported losses awaiting proof, "&c
iatured endowments, due and unpaid (claims not presented)
Vnnuities due and unpaid (claims not presented)
leserved for re-insurance on existing policies at the Actuaries’ table 4 per
cent, interest
leserved for contingent liabilities to Tontine Dividend Fund,
January 1, 1888, over and above a 4 per cent. Reserve
on existing policies of that class
Addition to the Fund during 1888
)EDUCT—
leturned to Tontine policy-holders during the year on
matured Tontines
ialanoe of Tontine Fund, January 1, 1889
leserved for premiums paid in advance
£ a. d.
16,442,863 12 3
295,418 13 11
215,038 19 8
61,514 5 9
92,922 17 9
18,482,373 14 0
752,232 11 8
£19,234,606 5 8
£114,311 17
62,338 8
11,627 19
5,527 18
16,252,213 7 6
£1,093,769 14 4
420,507 7 6
£1,514,277 1 10
192,512 5 0
1,321,764 16 10
9,568 15 4
IIVISIBLE SURPLUS (COMPANY’S NEW STANDARD).
17,777.353 2 11
1,457,253 2 9
"£19,234,606 "o" 8
£2,777,777 15 7
SURPLUS BY THE NEW YORK STATE STANDARD (INCLUDING THE TONTINE FUND)
From the undivided surplus, as above, the Board of Trustees has declared a Reversionary dividend to participating
lolicies in proportion to their contribution to surplus, available on settlement of next annual premium.
Number of policies issued during the year, 33,334. Risks assumed, £25,724,224.
Total number of policies in force December 31,1888, 129,911. Amount at risk, £86,396,400.
Men of Character and Energy Wanted as Agents.
Vith men who have either a reputation to sustain and mean to sustain it, or have one to make and mean to make it,
he Company will make the most liberal arrangements consistent with a safe and rational conduct of business,
’ersons engaged regularly in other occupations who may yet have a portion of their time at their .disposal which they
desire to utilize are also invited to respond to this notice. JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager.
Department of Australasia: Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, New South Wales.
W-I-W D O-W X>—33—C—O R A. T I O KT S.
ARTISTS’ DEPOT.
GROTH
FOR
PAPER-HANGINGS,
Oils,Colours * Paints
wallpapers from^roll
RAI
529 George BathurstSt.
Brickfield Hill ——
PAPERHANGINGS.
NOTE ADDRESS BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Cleaver’s
Transparent
Soap
Best & Cheapest
Bar None!!
raft
DAW SO M’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
YAUOHAN, EOGrERS & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
FARMER’S EXCHANGE, ALBURY.
PA. BUOKHOEN & CO., Produce Met?*
• chants, have always on hand large
supplies of Oats, Chaff, Potatoes, Onions, Butter,
Cheese, “and Eggs. _
Chaff in any quantity sold in trucks at Albury
Station according to sample.
Orders Promptly Attended to.
What is Home without a Picture ?”
Xi. EEEITASCOFI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
r Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Out to any Design,
The Revolt of Labour.
Hitherto the tendency of the age has been de-
cidedly utilitarian, as the word is vulgarly under-
stood. Men have been driven by the scourge of
necessity to work from morn to dewy eve, and
then, snatching a hasty morsel, have thrown them-
selves to the ground panting besides the smoking
machine, at once their tool and their tyrant. White
slaves during the last 50 years have been content
to pursue unhappiness and discomfort for a morsel
of bread in order that other men, the pets of op-
portunity and circumstance may lie softly, dine
and drink tenderly, and gird themselves with the
silks of India and the purples of Tyre. But we are
gradually changing all that. Men are beginning
to understand that the truly
UTILITARIAN
includes the Beautiful and the Good, and that
the social conditions which allow one man to be
a glutton and compel his brother to be a starveling,
are altogether unlovely, and fraught with injury
to the w hole human race. This being understood,
the Revolt of Labour has commenced. Education
has liberated the minds of the toilers, and now
they demand the Emancipation of their bodies.
The Eight Hours’ system has struck a tremendous
blow at
WHITE SLAVERY.
The man whose world ng hours were from 12 to
18 daily had no time for study, no opportunity to
consider his position, to concert protective measures
with his brother serf. Now, under the banding
together of labourers, hours are shortened, men have
leisure to think, to act, to combine. They have
some opportunity of straightening their backs, and
acquiring in an upright position that manly inde-
pendence formerly denied them. Their hours
being shorter their eyes are opened to the other
disabilities under which they labour, and not a
moment too soon. No longer are they satisfied to
huddle up in stifling, smoky city streets with the
odour of the ash-bin and the gutter for ever in
their nostrils, with the rattle of drays, the whirr of
machinery for ever in their ears, the w 7 eight of
mighty buildings for ever resting on their fore-
heads and pressing them down into the earth.
The workers are beginning to recognise what
their purblind rulers have either failed to recog-
nise—or, recognising, have failed to make allowance
for--the fact that this herding together like swine
in an evil atmosphere and confined space, is not
only a fertile source of disease, but that these
hovels of the poor are perfect seed-plots of im-
morality. How, we ask, could it fail to be other-
wise, Therefore, the worker, feeling in his breast
the workings of
MOTHER NATURE,
yearns for a little white cot, surrounded by a
garden plot, girt by green meadows, umbrageous
groves, and with no towering buildings to blot
from his view, sun and sky. His instincts,
quickened by education, prompt him to struggle
for such a home, but with his limited means, alas !
it seems impossible, A home in a suburb he may
hire, it is true, but it is not his own, and has been
run up on the old criminally-dirty principle of
placing as many living beings upon the smallest
slice of earth; and rents are high, and the house is
damp, being built on a swamp, and so his cravings
for light, air, quiet, and Happiness are still un-
satisfied. •
BROTHER-WORKER,
the remedy is in your own hands ; if the secret is
given to you, it but remains for you to make the
application. Certain land-owners, not altogether
philanthropists, but imbued with the enlightened
spirit of the age, have founded, six miles from
Sydney, fifteen minutes’ walk from Burwood, and
within five minutes’ walk of the station on the
shortly-to-be-constructed Liverpool loop-line, a
MODEL SUBURB.
It is beautifully situated. The ground—rich,
black soil —slopes gently down towards the waters
of Cook’s River, and the Estate, clear of timber, is
surrounded in every direction by forests of the
healthy Eucalypti. The Estate has been cut up
into |-acre allotments and is intersected by main
roads, 99 feet wide, tree-planted on both sides,
while the lesser avenues are everywhere in width
66 feet, and the whole have been kerbed and
metalled, while the footpaths are properly con-
structed. There need be no difficulty for any wage-
earner to obtain a little home on this beautiful
Estate which, by the way, is called
HAROOURT,
for the payments are merely nominal, being at the
rate of £1 7s. 6d. per month, with no risk of for-
feiture when payments are delayed, and an induce-
ment to build and settle down in the shape o f
Building Bonuses in value
TEN THOUSAND POUNDS (£10,000),
This system also includes life assurance. The man
who purchases an allotment on the Harcourt Estate
practically insures his life for the full value of his
allotment with payment of the first instalment, for
should he drop dead ten minutes after, the pro-
perty or its monetary equivalent becomes the
heritage of his heirs without further payment. In
the limited space of this article all the advantages
■of buying on the
HARCOURT
Estate cannot be detailed. We should advise those
interested to write at once to the Austral Banking
:and Land Proprietary, 6 Castlereagh-street,
■Sydney, for a descriptive pamphlet and a plan
■of the estate, then armed with a free railway-pass,
and on arrival at Burwood, seated in the buggy of
the local agent, he or she may spend an afternoon
in the inspection of the property and the selection
■of some spot whence the approach of the sunset of
■existence may be placidly viewed, and where, sur-
rounded by a happy and healthy family, thought-
ful parents may leel-that life has not been lived
in vain, and that they ,have done what lay in them
to the building up of a mighty nation in the
SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
The Referee.
No reliance whatever should he placed
upon the telegrams concerning the physical con-
dition of sculler Searle and his opponent re-
spectively. The statement that Searle is very ill,
and that O’Connor is in rude health, probably
means that the Searle party want to get a lot of
money laid against their man in Australia. Let
us, dear friends, learn from experience; let us
remember what took place in the Hanlan-Triekett
match on the Thames years ago. Searle and
O’Connor aren’t worth betting twopence on so far
as their sporting history is concerned. Anyone
who wants to wager on. the match had better toss
a shilling and say, heads, Searle; tails, O’Connor
or vice versa.
# # #
The eight-oar race last Saturday on Parra-
matta River was a great success. Five crews
started ; and the result was a win for the Mercantile
Rowing Club. “ .Tacky ” Thompson, their stroke,
was once a Sydney Rowing Club man, but he left
the Sydneys, and joined the Mercantile, because
the Sydneys did not consider him good enough for
their representative crews, he being under ten-
stone weight. Now—O, Sweet Revenge ! he
strokes the Mercantile Crew to victory against the
flower of the Sydney men ! The University eight
(coached by Mr. Goodyear) finished a brilliant
last: which is hardly to be wondered at, as six
out of the eight are lawyers.
%
One year's “ hard ” will be the making of
John L. Sullivan.
# # ■*
Joe Thompson is working a lone-hand in
England, while Barney cries the odds in company
with Charley Westbrook, the well-known cash
fielder.
# * #
The wife of a N.Z. billiard-marker recently
made a big “ break.” She threw a ball through a
sixteen-guinea mirror. She subsequently out a
hunk out of the green cloth with a carving-knife,
and generally reduced her husband’s business to a
ghastly wreck. We do like perfect women, nobly
planned.
# * *
“ He’s got his nose broken,” said a spec-
tator at a Melbourne football match, pointing to
an Essendon champion. “And what if he has?”
retorted a club “barracker,” “he’s got a free kick
for it, ain’t he?” Another individual, seeing a
South Melbourne man badly hurt, observed that
he “ wouldn’t care if half-a-dozen more of the cows
were killed,” This display of brutality is on all-
fours with that recorded in another community
where “manly British sports ” have firmly taken
root. “ Sullivan vomited in the 44th round, but
soon recovered. Kilrain then asked, ‘ Will you
draw the fight?’and Sullivan replied, ‘No, you
loafer!’ Sullivan then made a vicious onslaught
upon Kilrain, punching him with both hands,
knocking him down, and jumping upon his head
with his knees.” Can it be wondered that the
offshoots of a race whose pastimes are so
villainously brutal cling with reverential affection
to the fine old English fetiches —the lash and the
gallows ?
When the peds. at Surry Hills, Sydney,
read that a protest had been entered . against
Saumarez Smith, the newly-appointed Bishop of
Sydney, they surmised that he had concealed his
past record or that his entry-form was otherwise
“ cronk.”
# # #
Though Kneebone, the Victorian athlete,
failed to cover record distance in putting the 161 b.
weight, he could not, in any case, claim that
honour, considering the conditions under which he
performed. He was allowed a run of 7ft. 6in.
instead of 7ft., an enormous advantage; he was
permitted an unlimited number of attempts,
whereas O’Brien and other record-holders had
only the regulation number (six), and he actually
stepped over the mark in his best effort. What
kind of authority must we think the “athletic”
editor of the Melbourne Sportsman— no athlete,
by the way—who allowed the latter concession ?
He says that some people experienced in Cale-
donian games assisted, but then the laws of the
Caledonian games are not recognised in modern
athletics. Otherwise, how’ is it that Donald
Dinnie’s phenomenal performances find no place
in the modern record books ?
* * *
The great English amateur runner, H. C.
L. Tindall, ran 400yds. in 48 3-ssecs., and 440yds.
in -IB.fsecs., at Stamford Bridge A.A.C. sports.
* * »
According to the Referee (London) there
is scarcely a good horse on the English turf at
present. The running is in-and-out, and so public
opinion says : “ They beat each other and are all
bad.”
# * *
The English Oaks winner, L’Abbesse de
Jouarre, who defeated Min the through the over-
confidence of Webb, is known in turf' circles as
“ Abscess on the jawr.”
# #
The money added to the Wagga Gold Cup,
which at one time —in Diver’s year, we believe —
reached £lOOO, is to be further reduced from its
present lowdy estate of £3OO by 50. That ought to
“keep the money in the district.”
# *
Charley Samuels has returned to Queens-
land, and after a reign as champion pedestrian of
N.S.W. for the last three years is a poorer, a sadder,
and —let us hope—a wiser man. Some of these
days we may enlighten the public how some of
the aboriginal and half-caste peds. have been
treated by the “gaffers,” whom they have en-
riched.
# # *
Jem Smith and Slavin have been matched.
The affair should prove a good thing for Slavin as
Smith is, like himself, slow ; and hard-hitting is
in the Australian’s line of business.


Medical.
"TIRED NATURE'S KIND RESTORER.”
CLEMENTS’
TONIC
SPECIFIC
FOR ALL DISEASES OF
DEBILITY.
If you only know and properly understood the duties
which the blood has to perform, and the absolute
necessity for it to have a definite chemical composi-
tion, and knew that the supply of mineral constituents
from Australian food is totally inadequate to keep
the blood sufficiently strong in oxidising power, on
which process health depends, you would know
that it is imperatively necessary to supply the blood
with its es ential mineral elements for the formation
of healthy tissue, muscle, bone, &c., which unfor-
tunately are not obtainable from the natural food in
these colonies. To supply these elements CLEMENTS’
TONIC is offered and is the only rational restorative
prepared in Australia. It positively cures all diseases
arising from poorness of blood or debility, such as
Neuralgia, Nervousness, Weakness, Languor, Tooth-
ache, Loss of Appetite, Vigor and Energy, which are
only symptoms of a debilitated system. It supplies
the vital stream with the chemical food necessary to
ensure a proper exercise of the natural processes of
life, it strengthens the digestive organs, imparts
vitality and animation, ensures regular and natural
sleep, increases nerve force and fortifies the system
against disease. Medical men who know its chemical
composition and therapeutical value have recom-
mended it far and wide; they recommend it on
account of its sterling value and know that it can be
depended on to DO GOOD and CURE DISEASE.
They know its definite composition and that it has a
SPECIFIC ACTION on diseased organisms, therefore
they prescribe it and extol its virtues as a scientific
antidote for all diseases arising from debility and
nervous weakness. Sold everywhere, but mind you
get the genuine article, bearing the name of
F. M CLEMENTS, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Debility from over Brainwork—CUßED.
Kangaroo Talley, N.S.W., April 3, ’B9.
Dear Sir, —I have very much pleasure in bearing witness
to the great value of Clements’ Tonic in cases of
LASSITUDE, NERVOUSNESS AND CONSTITUTIONAL
DEBILITY GENERALLY. For more than 12 months I
was a martyr to extreme lassitude, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, and their concomitant train of physical troubles,
so much so that I feared I should have to abandon my
profession as a journalist, writing being particularly
irksome and laborious to me. I tried several advertised
tonics (?) with little or no good result, and began to think
my case beyond the power of medicine to cure. However,
seeing your Tonic advertised in some of my Exchanges,
I concluded to try it as a “ dernier resort;” and I am
pleased to say the result was most satisfactory. After
taking one bottle I found my appetite much improved ; I
could sleep more soundly, and felt refreshed next morn-
ing. I continued the medicine, taking in all six large
bottles, and gradually all my distressing symptoms dis-
appeared. . I now feel myself stronger than ever, and as
near perfect health as a man who has to bear the strain of
constant literary work can expect to be. I can confidently
recommend Clements’ Tonic to all persons suffering
from loss of nerve force through sickness or mental over-
work, and am most happy to support my testimony with
my signature.—And remain, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
P. JEFFERSON WALLACE,
Editor and Proprietor “ Kangaroo Valley Pioneer.”
General Debilitation.
75 King Street, Sydney, March 19, ’B9.
Dear Sir,—Kindly send me two more bottles of
Clements’ Tonic and permit me to express my thanks
and gratitude at the results obtained by taking two large
bottles. I hail had a great amount of business worry to
contend against, which, together with the long hours I had
stuck to it, completely undermined my constitution, and
made me feel very tired, weak and ill, my nerves being
quite shattered. I was so nervous that the accidental
slamming of a door would cause me to start violently, my
heart would beat very rapidly, and I would break out in a
profuse perspiration, afterwards having a sensation of
extreme weakness, lasting for some hours ; my sleep at
night was disturbed ; I awoke in the morning with head-
ache and aching limbs, and quite unrefreshed. I had no
appetite, no strength, and no inclination to work, and was
completely run out. I was persuaded by your advertise-
ments to try Clements’ Tonic, and am a different man
ever since ; it gave me new health and strength, increased
my appetite, and made me relish my food ; 1 increased in
flesh, I lost all nervous feelings, and now feel stronger
than ever, and am glad to bear testimony to the value of
your wonderful remedy. Yours, &c., W. I). BRAHAM.
Nervous Debility.
Castlereagh St., Sydney, Feb. 1, ’B9.
Dear Sir,—For some time past I have been in the
hands of the doctors, and I can truthfully assert that I
obtained not the slightest benefit. I heard of Clements’
Tonic, and have taken three buttles, with such marked
good results as to cause me to write and congratulate you
on the very excellent virtues of your remedy.
It has completely cured me of all my disorders, and I feel
myself an entirely different man. A friend of mine to
whom I gave a bottle, half of which he has taken, says he
feels wonderfully better in his general health, and, with
myself, begs to cordially thank you for giving the public
the benefit of your skill in manufacturing such a splendid
Tonic. Ido not wish my name used in print, but hope
you are very prosperous in the sale of your medicine, as
you justly deserve.—Yours faithfully, .
Debility and Indigestion,
Richmond, October 5,1888.
Dear Sir, —It is with feelings of great pleasure that I
pen these few lines. I have been a sufferer from GENERAL
DEBILITY and INDIGESTION for the last five years, and
have tried almost every known remedy without the
slightest benefit. I had given up all hope of being cured,
when by good luck I saw your Tonic advertised in the
Windsor Gazette. I determined to try it, and after the
third dose the change was remarkable. I took three
bottles, and now feel like a new man altogether.
WILLIAM JAMES MARKES.
Weakness and Debility
Parramatta, Sept. 10, 1888.
Sir, —Four years ago I caught a severe cold which
settled in my head and chest and caused an incessant
cough and copious discharge of phlegm ; this brought on
great weakness and debility ; after considerable attention
and doctor’s treatment the cough was relieved and finally
cured, but the debility remained and seemed to defy the
skill of the medical men and the power of medicine. I
had no appetite, and could scarcely eat a single particle of
food, and was almost reduced to a skeleton, having
entirely wasted away. I had taken pints of cod-liver oil,
malt extracts and other medicines without relief, when 1
was recommended to take Clements’ Tonic. I pro-
cured a bottle, and am thankful to say that I immediately
began to improve; I could eat better, and relish anil
digest what 1 did eat; I gained flesh every day, and my
strength rapidly returned, and, after six week’s treatment
with your Tonic, I felt a new woman altogether. Yours, &c,,
MARY KELLETT
Neuralgia and Nervous Debility.
Newcastle, N.S.W., Dec. 15, 1888.
Dear Sir, —For the last seven years I have been a victim
to the most excruciating agony from neuralgia, and also
suffered from extreme nervousness. I tried hundreds of
so-called specifics, but without avail, and, being a com-
mercial traveller, am partioulary liable to colds from ex-
posure to draughts, &c.; a slight one even always fled to
my facial nerves, and caused acute neuralgic pains, pre-
venting sleep and causing excessive sympathetic headache
1 saw your Tonic advertised, procured a bottle and, in
two days, the pain was completely cured, a consummation
I had never expected, and am deeply thankful for same.
This was four months ago and from “then till now I have
never had the slightest twinge of the excruciating torture
1 used to have. You may make what use of this you
like—Ysurs gratefully, HENRY A. CRANE
°\
£
r.
5V
r -
IT HAS REACHED THE CANNIBAL isles.
Chief (to missionary) : “ Are you lookin’ for your brudcler ? He’s in cle soup.’* —Life.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BBIDGE & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, <fc
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, <t'C.
o
ATJCTIOITEEBS.
GRA.IKT SALESMEKT.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
”42 Margaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEAf ES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
<v\
■ - V
3to
La ,
il
N. f ' ol
* r o YOXJKTGh MEN.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE.
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CtIRE.
TRIE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, A T o Medicines will he required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self. _
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &e. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
in\ ites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt, of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1117, G.P.O.
T 3 . , ~ , Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
. Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
a : m m
o R D
i^ 3 rf'' r V'r f T t i i J
4. 1 *l.^/owo- ■-•■rr’r^i^
1 i
ZLL
&
jr!
tLECTBIC pHOTQriWC. OBIOC£ : ST^.SYDNEY-
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
It. THORPE Ppopriptob.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
Ths Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock; tust t. .a. ist id i ictg-.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYDNEY
So!e Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
M •^."aohwrt.
Blacking. Tanners' Tool, an,! Male:!,"., pfr- KS «n‘"ffi<S|"
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
S3SHI
CONSU
I'MiTTII 1101114
m m wrf
■ii'-i-j Mwiuiiuni
DR RICHARDS.' g£S
111
□a
«tbm
J,
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may he eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un.
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of fid. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant,
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
■7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDFTEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE.


Beale & Co.’s New Warehouse.
■s
r ■
w
OUR NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES t
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines!
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANGES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL-PLATING—In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
° A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby's tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the boy’s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
or fells, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or niching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth; you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
Any of these performances will be shown at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’s clothes
are intended to be altered.
We have a special w ord for husbands : When the day’s
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will be the greatest of all helps
to her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, it is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost ! If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half-a-
crown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not be en-
larged, but ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How often do we waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences? The Machine
should far more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
ing or saving money as before. Is it not fairly to be
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Free by Post.
Beale & Company,
482 «. 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Or from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLA-REIWCE STREET, SY333STEY.
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
BUGGIES, HiTONS, BUGWBDS,
PONY CARTS, &c., &c.
Express & Lumber Waggons.
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
\
\i\WE. ONLY
/I
&
MURDER!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest selected Virginia
crops by F. W. Satwell, of 6
Park-street, it will
ARREST
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure brands now on
the market, Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the numer-
ous poisons
IMPRISONED
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, and obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Retail from
I* W + Saywsll & Co M
6 Park Street,
STDHET.
0 \ 1 I/ /
Photo gi\/\ph)c
Views
4
/
jrf° L (A'/e s
3,^W sr xV
LICHTNER & CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
—STOCK—
IMPORTERS.
4m
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET.
BRISBANE:
9 ELIZABETH STREET.
£T SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
—OP—
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS
Ami all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
)=(
CHEAP* AMATEtm 4 OUTFITS.
Sporting.
d
Square & Compass
CLUB.
5611 GEORGE STREET,
ONLY.
MONSTER gm
OSa Consultations wSi
ON
The Great Metropolitan Stakes*
Run on THURSDAY, September 24, 1889.
5000 SUBSCRIBERS at ss. EACH,
For 5s
FIRST HORSE .... £soo'j
SECOND HORSE .... £250 }
THIRD HORSE .... £125 j
For 5s
STARTERS £175. NON-STARTERS £2OO.
ALSO OPEN ON
CAULFIELD CU 3E*.
5000 at ss. Each.
Melbourne Oup. 10,000 at ss. Each.
Address—
Square Ik Compass Club,
Care of M. Pal m,
561! GEORGE STREET 56U
SYDNEY.
“ TATTERSALLS ”
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all tlie principal racss through-
out the year.
See Evening News “Brevities” for full par-
ticulars, or write to “ Tattereall,” care cf Geo.
Adams, Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE ATJSTHAL’S
MELBOURNE CUP
MONSTER CONSULTATION.
IlftO Prizes. 50,000 Members, £1 Each.
£15,000 FOR ONE SOVEREIGN.
The average chance of drawing a prize is One in
42 Tickets. .
10 per cent, will be deducted from all prizes.
All Communications by Letter Only. Address:
“ ATJSTEAL
Care of
THE NATIONAL BOOT MANUFACTURING CO.,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Add Exchange to Cheques and Two Stamps for
Reply and Result of the Drawing.
Cheques, Post-office Orders, to be made payable
to “AUSTRAL,” care of The National Boot
Manufacturing Co., 250 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
O years Western Australia has made very
great progress, and, now that the success and per-
manency of the various Coal, Gold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerative
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
PERTH,
the Capital City of the Coming Colony, whilst
it is Cheap.
£lO BUILDING SITES! SEIO
Ten Pounds. Ten Pounds.
large Allotments- Good Freehold Building
land. Splendid Position. Torrens’ Title.
City Allotments £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy Terms. Dis-
count for Cash, Buyers of Eive Lots receive a
Title FREE OF CHARGE.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad-
dress on application by
The Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited,
26 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
ows
‘■EMBROCATION.
i: w /
•• •-
1,1
f ksoLO
ft EVERYWHERE*!
W
m
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
if 1 .
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description foi
Sale or Hire ; also, good reliable Ladies of Gentle-
men's Hacks,


Horsforrt's 4<*id Phospfcate.
Beware of Imitations.
Everybody should use Pennell's latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
A Sydney woman ominously named Sauer-
bier recently obtained a publican’s licence.
M. Focachon, tjie chief warder, snrveillant
•'kef, of New Caledonia, now in Brisbane yarding-up
three fugitive recidivistes, will henceforth be
stationed on the shores of the “beautiful harbour”
on the lookout for French escapees. He has been
promoted to the rank of snrveillant principal
“ boss thief catcher.’ Le brav’Focatchon !
Government Advertisements.
T
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
August 20. 1889.
EXDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions see Government Gazette.
(Dates to which
Tenders
can lie received
at this office.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Bridge, Wilcannia, Darling River,
Ironwork. Cont. No. 1 (time
extended)
Bridge, Darling River, at Wilcan-
nia (erection). —Cont. No, 2.
(Time extended)
Mortuary Hospital for the Insane,
Newcastle
Additions Wingham Post and
Telegraph Office (fresh tenders)
Erection of Lockup at Jugiong
Bridge, Eight mile Creek, Road
Armidale to Grafton
Bridge, r Bilhdrong - Creek, Road
Yathohg Railway Station, to
Now Fame , - - -
Fencing, &c.,‘ Police Buildings
Young
Drainage Works, Bathurst Gaol
Purchase of Old Iron, Fitzroy
Dock (deposit 6f £2O required
with tender)
Bridge, Musk Gully Creek, Road
Hillgrove Station to Grafton
Bridge, Mummulgum Creek, Road
Casino to Tabulam
Supply and Erection of Cargo
Shed, &e., East Side Circular
Quay
Wednesday,
August 28,
at 11 o’clock.
Closing in Shed and Iron Rail
ing, Cowper Wharf, Woolloomoo
100 Bay
Harbour and Rivers Annual Con-
tracts, Supplies, &c., 1890 (£5
deposit required with fender) ;
Anchors and Chains
Awnings, .Sails, Tents, &c.
Brushes, Brooms, &c.
Castings
Cement
Copper and Lead Pipe
Engineers’ Stores, No. 1
Engineers’ Stores, No. 2
Hardwood, Colonial Pine, &c.
Indiarubber Goods, Hose, &c. •
Kauri Pine
Leather Belting. Hose, &c.
Oils, Paints, &c.
Plate, Bar Iron, &c.
Rope, &c.,
Ironmongery, &c.
Steel
Ship Chandlery
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Ma- Wednesday,
terials September 11,
Wrought Iron Angle Bucket Links at 11 o’clock
Wrought Iron, manufactured in
New South Wales
Wrought Scrap Iron Forgings
Supply of Coal at Sydney
Supply of Coal at Wollongong
Supply of Coal at Lake Macquarie
Conveyance of Coal from Newcastle
to Clarence River
Ditto ditto ditto ALacleay River
Ditto ditto ditto Hastings River
Ditto ditto ditto Richmond River
Ditto ditto ditto Bellinger River
Ditto ditto ditto Manning River
Ditto ditto ditto Tweed River
Ditto ditto ditto Nambucca River
Ditto ditto ditto Cape Hawke
Ditto ditto ditto Camden Haven
Ditto ditto ditto Lake Macquarie
Ditto ditto Wollongong to Shoal-:
haven j
Ditto ditto ditto Moruya |
Bridge over Monk's Creek, Road
Grafton and Copmanhurst to
Apple Tree Flat _ j
Bridge, Deep Creek, Road Casino
to Sandy Creek
Tar Paying, &c., Courthouse, Dar-J
linghurst
Bridge over Yarranan Creek, road
Coonabarabran to Wergeden \
Bridge over Deep Gully, road! Wednesday,
Grafton to Cross Roads, towards'September 25,
Casino 11 o’clock.
Bridge, in approach to Tulladunna ;
Bridge, near Wee Waa
Repairs, &c., N.S.S. Yernon(fresh
tenders) I
Repairs, kc.. Court House, Single-;
ton
Additions, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Casino (time extended.)
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Liverpool
Foundations, New Central Police
■
Repairs, &c., Court House, Quwan-
beyan
Wednesday,
October 9,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply and Erection of Pumping
Engines, North Shore (contract
No. 56)
Wednesday,
Nov. 6,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 16th August, 1889.
REWARD FOR EXTERMINATION OF
RABBITS.
WITH reference to the notice issued by the
Department of Mines, dated 31st August,
1887, to the effect that the Government of New
South Wales will pay the sum of £25,000 to
any person or persons who will make know n or
demonstrate any method or process, not previously
known in the Colony, for the effectual extermina-
tion of rabbits. It is hereby notified, for general
information, that no scheme for the destruction of
rabbits submitted after the 30th September, 1889,
will be considered in connection therewith.
JAMES N. BRIJNKER.
During the struggle in Western Australia
for autonomy, it is interesting to refresh the
memory with the methods of the older colonies at
a similar crisis. For the fullest information read
*1 he “History of Botany Bay,” The Bulletin’s
text-book. It contains, a wealth of information,
admirably illustrated by L. Hopkins and Phil
May.
New Zealand.
AND f
SOUTH SEAS EXHIBITION, 1889-1890.
THIS Exhibition, which is to be held at
Dunedin, the centre of the milway system
of the most populous portion of the Colony, will
be opened oh 26th November, 1889,.and will be
closed about the middle of April, 1890. It has
been decided to admit thereto samples of the
natural productions, manufactures, and works of
art from all Colonies (British and Foreign), where-
soever situated, as well as from. islands under
British rule in the South Pacific. .Judges will be
appointed by the Commissioners, mainly upon the
recommendations of the exhibitors themselves ;
and certificates of first, second, and third order of
merit will be awarded to such exhibits entered for
competition, as may be deemed entitled to such
marks of distinction.
The Government of New South Wales has de-
cided that this Colony shall take part in this
Exhibition by showing specimens of the Minerals,
Timbers, Wools, and Wines produced within its
boundaries, but will not interfere with the
arrangements of private exhibitors_for the display
of other descriptions of goods. An exception will,
however, be made in the case of inventions,
machines, or processes likely to be of servicer in
developing the resources of the Colony, assisting
its industries, or stimulating the enterprise of -the
people. A limited number of exhibits of this class
will be received by the Commissioner, who will
forward them to Dunedin, and arrange for then-
display free of cost to the owners. It will be
necessary, however, before they can be accepted
on these terms, that formal application should be
made through the prescribed Form of Entry, and
that the Commissioner should signify his ap-
proval. If not otherwise disposed of, by direc-
tion of the owners, such exhibits will be returned
to Sydney in the like manner after the close of
the Exhibition.
Any further information desired by intending
exhibitors and necessary forms may be obtained
on application to the undersigned. Applications
must be lodged on or before 31st August instant,
after which date none can be entertained; and
exhibits, packed ready for shipment, must be deli-
vered to the Commissioner not later than 30th
September next.
OSCAR MEYER,
Commissioner for N.S. Y ates,
New Zealand and South Seas Exhibition,
73 Phillip-street, Sydney,
V*nQSTWI
SO3TC
SAM
•
y XUDKS
h cminniHi
thunks* 64 ®
BOSTON-}
BROWNS
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR— _
LADIES' AND CHILDEEN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phiia., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 1 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’fgs.
m ONDERFUL VALUE'
The Bonus Sugar and Tea Company
GIVE WITH THEIR
Pure Blended Teas Bonuses
as under:
With every 301 b. good, strong, flavored Congou Tea, at
2s. per lb., 901 b. of best White Moist, or 1001 b, of Yellow
Sugar.
With every 301 b. of Pekoe Souchong flavored Congou
Tea, at 2s. 6d. per lb , 1401 b. Yellow, or 1201 b. best Snow-
drop (White Crystal) Sugar.
With 301 b. of finest Calcutta Mixture, at 2s. 9d. per lb.,
1201 b. of best Snowdrop Sugar.
With each Half-chest of choicest Panyong Congou Tea,
at 655., a 601 b. Bag of best Snowdrop Sugar.
With each Half-chest of choice Congou Tea, at 555., a
601 b. Bag of White Sugar.
The Sugars are the best refined.
Sole Agents in New South Wales:
ASKEW <Sc CO,
80 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
A FORTUNE FOR £l.
If you want to receive an Income of upwards
of £2OOO per annum and the
Absolute Ownership of the “ Trocadero,”
that valuable rent-producing property. Possession
given and Deeds at once transferred to the suc-
cessful tenderer on receipt of first year's payment
of £l2. Immediately on receipt of £l. Tender
form, particulars, &c., forwarded.
DUFF & COLLINS,
109 Pitt Street, SVUM.V,
Read ! Read ! Read !
“THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland).
Sole Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
Medical.
D R SMITH, XJ.S.A.
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of P.OTII SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure (Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hums ; ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
PULVERMACHER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
for the rrr.K of
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “ Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
- Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc shipham
electricians;
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria.:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Cou.ixs stuekt West, MKr.Korr.xE.
Miscellaneous.
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates I.< j\v. Settlement Prompt.
For contritions and particulars,
\V. J. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
mm
iff;
wh
Burglars Beware!
GP>. MOD INI undertakes to say that the
• most enterprising Burglar will hesitate in
his Burgling if people will only supply themselves
with his ALARM GUNS, which can be fixed in
any position in gardens or elsewhere.
He has also Revolvers of all the leading makers
of America, England and the Continent.
Guns and Ammunition of the Best description.
Uu.o ■’ l:
>S'
&N
Diagonal Seam Corset, No.
‘'■They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I ha ve tried.”
I (Signed) Marie Rose.
THE
Y &
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “Y&N Patent
116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
The Compagnoni Catering Co.
GUNSLER’S CAFE
160, 162, 164 Street,
SYDNEY.
JF. OtTNSLER desires to intimate that in
• consequence of the unathorised use of his
name elsewhere, it is necessary that all orders for
Gunsler's Cafe, or Oompagnoni Catering Co., be
addressed, .1. F. Cunsler, 100, 102, and 104 Pitt-
street.
J. F. Gunsler General Manager.
JOHN BXJCKSCA.2M,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Baker’s Cart Covers, Horse Rugs, Nose Bags,
Oiled Loin Cloths, Cah Aprons. Send to or call at
JOHN BUCKHAM,
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
To Country Newspaper Ppoprietors.
EOR SALE. —A Quantity of Second-hand
NEWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
and hulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer. Bulletin Office.
CORRESPONDENCE
“S.T.P.”: Sentiments admirable, hut badly
■xpresse*! “ .Scotchman’s Souk Hardly up to stan-
larcl....“ Jas. Grogan Letter handed to manager....
“C'oorah”: Rather heavy. Will consider “T. N.
I’itt. Good. But why do you blaeken both sides of one
fair sheet R. Shields”: Will consider. Glad to
find there are some men of your opinions “ B*
Smith”; Will read.... “ Burabora ” : Thanks ...“S.C.
(Toorak): Many thanks. Will work up. “Gaffney”:
We will keep our weather eye on both matters ...“ E. 1.”:
Thanks....“ Incognito ” (Oympie) ; Very scandalous, if
true. You should have forwarded newspaper clipping B
to confirm your statements “D.R.W.” (M., Q.):
Universal Review posted to you would cost 3s. fid. (2.)
Address him care of Chattoand Wind us, Piccadilly, London.
“H. J. Hawley”: Thanks for clippings “ B.” (Bent-
street); Too verbose.... “ X.” : Thanks ; good idea. 11 ill
hand to artist.... “J. Mullins ” (11 .A.) : Many thanks....
“ W.M.W.” : Thanks ; “ The Suicide ” is too lively for our
columns ...“A. B.”: Your chirrupy, warbling growl is
scarcely up to the mark....“ Carmen ”: 11 ith condensa-
tion and some extra polish “ Romance and Reality” would
be suitable “Theatrical Reminiscences”: Too dirty;
why not send it to Mr. E ?....“ Redtop ” : The Bil-
letin'is fully alive to Sir “Tam’s” many faults, but can-
not forget that he, by a few bold and statesmanlike acts,
carried home to the hearts of the Australian people the
National sentiment—journalistically cradled and fostered
hy The Bi lletin' alone throughout many years...“ O B.”:
The verses start off vigorously enough ;
With a thatch of snow on his head
And a mat hanging down to his breast,
With two hides for soles to his boots,
And a bale of cloth for a vest,
He stood on. his office floor,
And sang with rolling eyes
To a winsome boy Of lour.
This earnest song of “ Rise.”
But your Muse tails off sadly on this occasion.. ..‘‘F.T.’
(Cooper’s Creek); Go to neither of them ...“G.C.M.”
(Melbourne): A good idea, but it’s been done so often
A merely local matter of no interest to out-
siders “ J.E.S.” : Your Outram poetry far below zero...
’* w. 0.”: We have pever read anything on the subject
save newspaper discussions.W.T.G.”: “ The Dummy’*
too long. The ottava rima is the worst kind of verse for
newspaper uses. It won’t stand condensation, and its
ryhmes always lead the writer off into unnecessary by-
paths. Witness “Don Juan.” “ N.S.F.” ; Glad to hear
from you constantly.... “T.M.K.” : Thanks ...“ W.L.0.”:
We do regard it as fortunate. It would he a national
calamity that the legal guilt or innocence of a prisoner
arraigned in Australia should have to he settled by an
English Court “ A Reader ” ; (l)Yes, he is a qualified
man and holds the diplomas he claims. (2) If a man ob-
tains money from you, falsely pretending that he holds
certain qualifications, you can send him to gaol—if you
can prove your case, which he will take precious care you
have no chance to do. ..“E.S.T." ; But which would be
the greater punishment—(if you really go for revenge)—to
kill Mrs. Maybrick now or to put her into gaol and turn
her out again—if ever you turned her out again—not as a
handsome, fascinating woman, but as a wrinkled hag,
bearing the brand of Cain?. ..“An Old Boiler-maker” :
Thanks. The daily press of Sydney asked the N'.S.W.
ironworkers before last general election to vote for send-
ing the ironwork out of the country—and they did, “ just
as though they didn’t want any work to do between
meals.” They have only themselves to blame
“S.J.W.”: “The Lily of Killamey” was last played in
Sydney—we believe—by the Montagu-Tumer Company,
some seven or eight years ago “E.S.”: Many thanks
“ C.O.Mc.” : Very suitable. Inserted “ J.F.’*
(Junee): Splendid.... “ Tommy ” (N. Melb.): Next week.
We have received several copies of the
Sporting Wire, a nicely-got-up, bright, little
Melbourne bi-weekly.
Searle, the Australian champion, has re-
sumed work on the Thames. His neuralgic affec-
tion left him on the application of .Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine.
Judge Wilkinson, in sentencing James
Snow, the embezzler of £l2OO from a firm of Syd-
ney carriers, to five years’ imprisonment, remarked
that : “ One clergyman says of you that you went
to church regularly. This you may have clone,
lsut, notwithstanding that, a quantity of obscene
literature of a disgusting character was found in
your possession, and in your own handwriting.”
“ Pure as the Snow ” has long been a proverb.
Piety and pruriency are often only different
phases of the same emotion.
The other day a Town-hall official court-
eously remarked that Sydney people “seemed to
be born to filth.” It now* transpires that typhoid
and diphtheria are being caused at Watson’s Bay,
because nightsoil from Sydney and suburbs is
simply dumped over the local cliffs ; “and in south-
easterly weather the deposit is lifted up and blown
against the glass of the lighthouse.” And then
sometimes the beach at Manly is strewn with a
horrible collection of abbatoir-sweepings which
have been dumped into the sea by the ton, a mile
or two out. “ Sydney people seem to be bom to
filth.”
A meeting of the Bargowlah ratepayers
was held the other evening, and the chairman
said that before proceeding to play Yankee grab
for who should have the bridge-contract, he had
an apology to make. At a previous meeting, in
the heat of debate, he had stated that Misther
Ryan “was the curse of Bargowlah.” He
apologised for using such a vulgar expression, which
he would qualify by saying it was true. Misther
Ryan’s municipal “carare ” had been invariably in-
jurious to the town. He would not repeat that
Misther Ryan had been a curse to Bargowlah
during the past 24 years, but, bedad, he must say
that he had been anything but a blessing. Fact.


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Sydney Branch :
Comer of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch:
283 COLLIN • STREET, EAST 283
(Next door to National Bank of Australasia).
Brisbane Branch ;
CORNER EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Brandi ... Hunter Street.
Money Lent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards to
any amount, repayable by instalments extending
from 1 to 7 years, at current rates of interest —viz.,
6 per cent, to 10 per cent, per annum.
For building or otherwise improving freehold land
the Company offers special facilities.
Progress advances made upon buildings in course
of erection, up n architect’s certificate.
The Company also grant immediate Advances upm
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
Mercantile or other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months ... 6 per cent.
Six „ ... 7
Twelve ~ ... 8 ~
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
renewal, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demahd.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Manager.
BUSSELL MARSHALL
The (Anglo-Australian Investment,
finance <k land Company, Ltd.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £100,00)
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) ~ 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,000
lead Office:
24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P.
■ Vice-Chairman: F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office .. 31 Lombard Street, K.O.
Chairman : Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
' PHIS Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
result of wise and enterprising management, has won
ts way to. the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
Deposits received in Large or Small amounts
either at call or for fixed periods, hearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES ... Manager
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187 U.)
CAPITAL
£200,000.
Sydney Office:
301 PITT STREET
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
-A- immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits 3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager.
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATE
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OP SYDNEY.
Works; CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 GASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
Tames Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; Jambs A. Brown, Neutral
day ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney ;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated. ■*
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific -methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modem
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
cqlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further Information, apply
W. B. FLETCHER.
Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simp'e remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of forty years’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
William’ Street, Melbourne.
Miscellaneous.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Roller Flour and Grain Stored,
GKAWILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King; Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
T .EOJVT A RTI G-WYKT,
General Business Ss Hotel Broker,
-N o. 8, Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite G.P.O).
—Nothing but Straightforward Business Done. —
No Sale No Charge.
LEOUAED G-WYU.
Miscellaneous.
The British and Sew South Wales Investment
and Financial <!«., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act,
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 240 PITT STREET.
BILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country commit..ications promptly attended
to. The ‘following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits;—
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... 8 per cent.
3 Months ’ .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
EP P S ’ S
GRATEFUL--COMFORTING
COCO A.
UMBRELLAS
IXUDY ECONOMY
1 and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J , S I 1; LIVA N ’ S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool tfc Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tume.--. Repairs neatly done.
Hotels,
m |BourmeS t
Melbourne
TRAMS PASS
EYEllYlFEW MINUTES
jJk
ii iiii i
■ollkJl
m -
' -
f?rRl
lliOH 3 DVIVd
t
\
J.A.WILSON
PKOPRiETOP
£.W.CLARE
>«»»■
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is —
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of tlie city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three Hu.ndlreti Alagiitficexit Bedrooms,
Which ar-e Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
SSF Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bei.ls. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
m~ T~W O OTIS LIFTS.
—
Ladies’ Boudoir, Drawing, Smoking, and Reading Rooms*
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook & Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms s Single Bedroom, 2s. Sd. per Wight.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
- ■ ltl'"V ■'
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony,
HMCrs. KULMIWSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First €lass Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured!
The Greatest Success /
o iModern Times. \
CONSULT
/ All Chronic Diseases
( are Curable.
--a=t. H. E. KU GELM ANN,
CONSULTING ECLECTIC,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases.
«0 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him. '
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more!
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July, 1888.
To H. B. Kugelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating
me for five months, he honestly informed me that my case
was incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any
longer, and he advised me not to take any more chemists’
medicines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was
poison. I then pressed him for a true statement of my
case, and he very reluctantly informed me that I was
suffering from Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that
I was quite incurable. During the time I was attended
by the above doctors, I was not able to lie down in my
bed, and expectorated many quarts of blood and matter
from my lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this
time I saw your advertisement and decided to consult you,
which I did' in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished
me by informing me minutely of the exact nature of my
complaint without my giving you any information, and
even without your having sounded or examined me. But
my astonishment was greatly increased when you told me
that you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite
agreement, which I gladly availed myself of. After having
taken your medicines for a month I was considerably
worse; expectorating very much, and throwing up several
pieces of skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of
my hand; but after this crisis I commenced to improve
very fast. After three months treatment the expectora-
tion and cough entirely left me, and I had gained over
two stone in weight, a result which my friends considered
little short of miraculous, as all expected I would soon
die ; and from that time (thanks to your most wonderful
skill and ability) I have not felt any return of my com-
plaint, and my lungs are as strong as ever they were, and
I can do as good and as hard a day’s work as I ever did.
I am sure that people diseased and suffering should avail
themselves of your treatment, and not delay as I did until
I was given up to die.—l remain, ever thankfullv vours
FRANK E. E. KNIGHT.
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1356, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice. —If preferred, a Signed Agreement givenwhich
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
not being Effected.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,”
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent cr chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERR B,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST & ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Seme
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation;
9to 11 a.m.; %to If and 7 till 9 p,nu
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S Y 33 KT E Y.
Business Announcements.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allkinds of Tins for Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. Trial Solicited,.
F. C. NICHOLLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 736
HAYMABKKT.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, Sec., Made tc Order.


Anything that Dingman’s Electric Soap
fails to purify has not yet been discovered. It is
the one peculiar combination which performs its
mission in the extinction of dirt, grease, paint and
stains from any kind of clothing, and upsets the
old-time theory about washing-day miseries. It
is no longer necessary to boil, garments to pulp or
rub them to rags to get the dirt out. Dingman’s
Electric Soap prolongs their usefulness, increases
their beauty, and materially assists the user in
attaining the length of days attributed to
patriarchs.
I
K
đ
m
I
ENTS .
DELISSA i PHILLIPS
Strlet.
Tobacconists.
SMOKE NOTHING
BUT
PIPES.
d
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLQSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
egyptiaiAigarettes.
MELACHRINO'V
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO I
MELACHRINO f
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO J
M. Melachrino & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
All the Courts and Embassies of Europe;
ALL THE
Leading British and Continental Clubs
and Regimental Messes.
—Have the Largest Sale in the World!—
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best.
Solb Agents;
WARREN & ROW3XT.
14 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 5 Cigarette ... 85/- per 1000 : 9/- per 100.
No. 8 „ .... 66/- „ T'Z-
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
Boots and Shoes.
đ
FASHION,
FIT, and.
FINISH T
JUDGE + FOR + YOURSELVES.
We Have in Stock
AND
Make to Order
The Finest Hand Sev/n
Soots and Shoes
AT PRICES
THAT
DEFY COMPETITION!
A Visit will prove the above Assertions.
d
ď
‘x'lxe Co-Operative
Boot Making 1 Company
(Opposite David Jones and Co.),
376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
H. HILDE Ft,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER*
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Cirlndery, *Sc.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
SAIj E.—A Quantity of Second-hand
Newspaper Type in Case and Bulk. For
particulars apply to the Printer, Bulletin office.
EOR SALE.—Second-hand Quad-Demy
Polder, by Harrild ; Cheap. Apply The
Bulletin office.
Business Announcements.
j FISH 1 FISH I FISH I
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
To Fish Consumers in Town & Country.
WE ABB PREPARED TO SUPPLY
Fish Frozen in Solid Blocks of Ice,
the blocks containing 301 b., 151 b., arid 101 b. assorted flab.
Fnce, 3d., 4d., and sd. per lb., according to the iHnHf of
fish desired.
ICE GRATIS 1 ICE GRATIS!
Blocks delivered free at Railway Station, yacked so as to
carry to any part of the colony, for Ss. 6d. per block extra.
Instructions sent_ with each package how to treat the
nsh ao that they will keep for several days. The fish are
obtained direct from the fishing ground, and guaranteed
perfectly fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will be Forwarded on receipt
of Post-ofi:je Or dor for the Amount.
Eg* All orders to be sent to the Works—
Kensington St., Sydney,
T. D. KYLE ... Manager.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE C 0„
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OP
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT &, COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent Erench
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
EABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address! “ Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
MUSICAL.
TJATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
1“ o.Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade,
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
4,000
4,000
AdLam Bede’s ”
BEJJEVOLEIXrT
COJiTSUI.TATIQIffS.
o ne-tenth of “ Adam Bede’s” Commission will be handed to the Proprietors of The Bulletin to be nubliolJ
devoted to various charitable objects. The following is the list of events Now Open. “
SIPIRfIZEsT <3- ZEaZ-iLZEsTIDIO-A-IP
Run at Randwick, 24th August, 1889. 7
SUBSCRIBERS at TEN (10s.) SHILLINGS EACH.
_ Two Tickets for 20s. Every £1 invested has a chance of drawing Six Separate Prizes.
60
EXTRA CASH PRIZES!
60
4,000 at 10s. each, Hawkesbory Handicap.
20.000 at 10s. each, Metropolitan Stakes.
20.000 at 10s. each, Caulfield Cup.
ALSO OPEN
Melbourne Cup,
( 50,000 at £1 each.
{ 20,000 at 10s. each.
V. 4,000 at 10s. each.
+; , ntaininfj full particulars of the division of prizes and method of drawing willinelv sent mi annlinn
i. “ pid I "° re “ ° ? “ ■ bi»
,nv.55„ “ d must e “'°" ‘™
a ™"“ “ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. ABBOTT,
Post Office Chambers. SYDNEY.
The names of the Drawers of Horses will on no account whatever be divulged by “ Adam Bede ” exceut to the holder
of the ticket, until after the races have been run, THE ONLY PAIR WAY OF DRAWING h °^ or
THE AUSTRAL BANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
CPIHCIXiXiIIPS & CO).
Reserve Capital Account
Reserve Fund.
Total Assets over Liabilities
Head Office
Melbourne Office
London Office ..
£250,000
61,431 10 10
311,431 10 10
-()-
Sydney, N.S.W.
464 Collins Street.
1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices ....
JN.S.W.: Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
[Victoria: Lara.
Rates for Fixed Deposits over £3O:
7\ per cent, for 3 Years
7 „ 12 Months
6
5
per cent, for 6 Months.
3 „
Balance Sheets and further information may be obtained on application to
J. £5- lE'. Cowell. Maziaeer
6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. S '
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society,
Established 1872.
Bonuses
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.A.,
Chairman.
Head Offiob:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
The Hymn of the Socialists.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
By the bodies and minds and souls that rot in a
common stye
In the city’s offal-holes, where the dregs of its
horrors lie—
By the prayers that bubble out, and never ascend
to God,
We swear the tyrants of earth to rout, with
tongue and with pen and sword !
By the child that sees the light, where the pestilent
air stagnates,
By the woman, worn and white, who under the
street-lamp waits.
By the horror of vice that thrives in the jdens of
the wretched poor,
We swear to strike when the time arrives, for all
that is good and pure !
By the rights that were always ours—the rights
that we ne'er enjoyed,
By the gloomy cloud that lowers on the brow of
the unemployed,
By the struggling mothers and wives—by the girls
in the streets of sin—
We swear to strike when the time arrives, for our
kind, and our kith and kin !
By our burning hate for men who rob us of ours
by might,
And drive to the slum and den, the poor from the
sun and light,
By the hell-bom greed that drives our sons o’er
the world to roam.
We swear to strike when the time arrives, and
strike for our friends and home.
By the little of manhood left in a world of want
and sin,
By the rift in the dark cloud’s brow where the
light still struggles in.
By the love that scarce survives in a stream that
is sluggish and thin.
We swecr to work till the time arrives for our-
selves and our kind and kin.
The little of love may dry in its stream that
scarcely flows,
Th • little of manhood die and the rift in the dark
clouds close,
An! hope may vanish from earth and all that is
pure and bright,
But we swear to strike e’er that time has birth
with the whole of our gathered might!
1887.
HENRY LAWSON.
W hile a teetotal member of the N.S. Wales
Parliament was submitting a motion to reduce
the number of public-houses, the Sydney magis-
trates were trying a case brought against a
Working Man’s Club ” for selling liquor without
a license.
Some day a writer will make a good yarn
out of the Melbourne pilots. The names of Rich,
Draper, Gaunson, Nicholson, Rocket, and others
in the past brint' up a shoal of racy reminiscences,
wreathed round the cutters Rip, Corsair, Mavis,
&0., with their boardings of the Great Britain,
Northumberland, Kent. Marco Polo, Lightning,
and all the celebrated clippers o f the past. The
Lightning, burnt at Geelong with a wool cargo,
was painted green, with her cutwater straight up
and down, a novelty in a wooden ship.
In a pastoral township near the S.A. bor-
der, ready money i- scarce. A bushman lately
called at one of the hotels for two drinks, tender-
ing in payment two kangaroo scalps, which were
readily accepted by mine host, who cooilv returned
four wallaby scalps, with the remark “Your
change.'’ The marsupial-scalper at once made
tracks to the telegraph-office, and, tendering
another scalp, said calmly: “Two shillings worth
of stamps, please,” but was much taken aback to
hear that a wallaby-scalp was no equivalent for a
“ Queen’s-head.”
George Boanas, secretary of the Melbourne
Cabmen s L nion, ha- gone, and was followed to
his grave the other day by an unprecedented line
of cabs, about a mile long. A thoroughly useful
man he was, not one of those who merely worked
for wages. He had a lynx eye for the cabmen’s
interest, and did more than anyone else to weld
them into such sort of union as they have. Panton
and Cos. have sat heavily on the cabbies. If the
shamefully-persecuted fruit-hawkers could only
raise a man like Boanas. they would be victorious.
Why doesn’t the Trades Hall take up the fruit-
hawkers’ case ?
The Waikato Maoris, before the conquest
of that district, always insisted on the existence
of the Taipuna, or wild men of New Zealand.
Any considerable stretch of mountainous or sterile
country was sure to be accounted the demesne of
these mysterious and fearful creatures. They
were described as being strong, ferocious, vindic-
tive and hungry. Their personal attractions were
to match, as they were very tall and gaunt, with
matted beards, hairy breasts and limbs, duplicate
sets of canine teeth, and bloodshot eyes with a
dreadful crazy look in them. The authorities
were somewhat divided in opinion as to their
origin. Eor instance, old Tangiteruru (the Cry of
the Owl), a Murewai chief {who was responsible for
the enumeration of the above aggregate of their
charms), by way of historical sketch, asserted that
the Taipuna were an ostracised branch of the
aboriginal race in possession of New Zealand when
the canoes arrived from Hawaiki with the Maori
fathers on board. Again, the Rev. Hamiora
Ngatimaniapoto Te Tao, the home missionary,
was of opinion that they were the lost tribes of
Israel. But Apanui, the eminent Arawa scholar,
was more clear on this point than his scientific
confreres. According to him, the Taipuna are
the children of Roua, the man in the moon, who was
banished to that luminary, as everybody is aware,
for rudely blowing his nose in the presence of
Jupiter. If any antecedent doubts had worried
the Pakeha mind as to the existence of the wild
men, they must have been dispelled by such state-
ments as these. But a remarkable confirmation
of the main fact was at hand. An Auckland
traveller named Todd was belated on the confines
of the Taipuna-haunted country, and took refuge
from a thunderstorm in a limestone cave. This
apartment was decorated with mural drawings,
say about two thousand years old. Todd said he
was fond of the old masters when the subjects
pleased him, but these did not happen to possess
that merit, and he was beginning to feel particu-
larly uncomfortable under the eye of a fiery dragon
which followed him about the cave, when, to his
great relief some other travellers arrived. They
proved to be the three authorities quoted above.
After a pleasant evening spent in conversation
(for all were too nervous to travel in such a locality
as that at night) they turned in, warning the
stranger to put his valise, containing all his valu-
ables, in a place of safety, lest the incorrigible
wild men should steal it. When Todd awoke in
the morning, the Maori gentlemen had left —and
bo had the valise. He felt so angry with the
Taipuna that he shied a handful of kitchen re-
fuse at the dragon before leaving for home.
Baron Liebig, the Extract-of-Meafc man,
says that “ as much flour as can lie on the point of
a table-knife contains as much nutritive con-
stituents as eight quarts of the best and most
nutritious beer that is made.” He has evidently
forgotten Ananias and Sapphira.—
We’ve always heard the name of Liebig
Pronounced to form a rhyme with flea big;
Henceforth (we pause to heave a sigh big)
They’d better call him Baron Lie- big.
In the early days of Charters Towers the
male sex largely predominated. Three ladies had
been imported to attract the miners to a newly-
opened dancing saloon. One Sunday they turned
up at the house of prayer, where their entrance
created quite_ a flutter of excitement. The
reverend officiator, seeing there were no seats,
leaned across the altar-rad and whispered to a son
of Erin, “ Three chairs for the ladies.” “Begorra
I will, yer reverence,” was the enthusiastic reply;
rxw. *3 ui . ckl y rising and facing the worshippers, the
Hibernian announced, “Bhoys, three cheers for the
leddies, and I hope ye’ll give ’em wid a will. Hip,
hip, hip; hu-ray-ay !”
The baptism of the infant prince, son of
the Battenbergs, was solemnised in the nave of
St. Georges Chapel, Windsor, the other day.
The service commenced with a hymn—
Saviour, who Thy flock art feeding
With the Shepherd’s kindest care,
All the feeble gently leading.
While the iambs Thy bosom share.
What blasphemous rot! The poor, lost children
of the “ninety and nine” freeze and stew in the
London slums homeless, ragged, hungry, diseased,
uneducated, with never one opportunity to be
anything but criminals. “ The Shepherd’s kindest
care!!!”
The bi.S.W. Railway-Commissioners admit
that—
One lady attendant has been appointed to the Redfem
waiting-rooms since the Commissioners took office, viz.,
Mrs. Smedley, a widow. The circumstances surrounding
this case were of a sad nature, and as an opportunity
offered for her appointment the lady was given the posi-
tion of waiting-room attendant. Her husband has not
been engaged in the railway service.
Very likely the lady’s case was deserving. There
are, however, many women, the widows of worked-
out N.S.W. railway-men, equally necessitous and
more deserving at the hands of Commissioners
who profess to be engaged in the task of abolishing
the preferment-by-favouritism system. The rail-
way-men’s widows are uninfluentiai, while the
lady-attendant ”_has friends in high places, con-
sequently the one is taken and the others are left.
Let Messrs. Eddy and Co. confer favours on their
proteges at their own expense; but, let them not
foist “necessitous ladies” from outside, on to a
department where such rewards should and must
go to the needy immediate relatives of old officials.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
£
X
5?
EUREKA
£
ELECTRIC
BELTrSO
tU
> is
Hi*
/*
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete -with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 daya
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst ease permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage. >
Address;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney..
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.8.C.P., M.E.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN —
Chronic, Nervous and ffenito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston <6 Elizabeth Sts ),
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“ Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases —price,
3s. fid. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
rnHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
f The Public are requested to notice the
Wdi U, blUll ! words, 1®“ Kosc s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
N
ERV O U S
DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, Or BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain-
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussbn’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “ Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOB FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Export by Charles Watt, Esq.q Late Government
Analyst
“ I have tested a sample of the * Magic Meal ’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenio and have
to report, afte.r a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon:—“l
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping theta ifi good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 3s. ; 141 b. ss. fid. ; sfilb., 18s.
fid. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A H. PHILLIPS,
31 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
c ma
PATENT
PILLS
&
*
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &b. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring’ about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tesiifled
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of, Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand They are the best ever offered to the
public and - ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham's Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
&
THE TREE OF LIFE.
EUCALYPTE OIL'S.
Victory Ointments
The only pure Eucalypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the ( best and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, I ancers.
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eue'a'ypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the b°st preparation
before the public for young Chihli en and aged
people Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory —Co >tamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot -227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Bold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Prof. R. T. SELBY „
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
WIT CONSULT TJ
Moore & Hogg
JLi I THE EMINENT
| SPECIAIiISTS,
CONSULT
&
EMINENT
_ SPECIALISTS,
On aTI Diseases rff the Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
2, CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane,
OOI.BULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sentonreceipt of 3d. stamp
SPECIAL NOTICE. —The Syiivet Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements.
~~~ —- -• ■ —— " ■ ■■ — —
*2O BUCKEOARD BUGGIES £2O
OKS JO*
craioAi am vi xsaa
sags
sm
m
mm
a
/t /
mmJhLm
The Largest Coach-
Works i*i Australia.
No. 45 — Turnout Seat—£35.
COPE «5c NEWMAN,
BOGGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Ofiice, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King, or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all hinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address: 53 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY-
" For Framing a Picture Neat and Weil."
w x :x
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-St., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gi’ding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges,
epecial attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
n
manufacturers
t IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPS ic
438 CEORCE ST
3YDNEY %
tffipostfe LassetCerg
p
'Vi
Branch ;
6 7 8 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
r
(
CP
THE JBEST
IN THE WQR1&
I
-c..'
SUCH
INC
*7
*7
PC
MANUFACTURED BY • ‘
gf? ~'k/JJM£S CtfANNOn JflarbovrS* \
rJ-<LtSclet Vu a-It &iaccsijd 3 SSoreAt*/itro >■
Business Announcements.
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
lIRST QUALITY.
d
Bass’ Pale A.le,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents;
BALCHIN JOHNSTON Sc GO.,
SYDNEY,
M. B. Foster and Sons,
LONDON,
“BUGLE ” BRAND ALE & STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and
STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmel off
on the public:—
We desire to warn our friends of the iact, and
to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER and
SONS to this colony bear their name and
address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer pur
porting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be
esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the
frauds.
A Liberal Reward will he given for information
leading to conviction of the offenders.
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster and Sons.
Ask for kupper’s elberfeld
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &o
Cooperage:
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market-st., Sydney.
Hotels.
ret
H 2
dTnJ
OWDENSKtowg^
wm
■
BOWDEN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Stdhet,
JOHN C. BO n DEN „ .. Proprietor.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near OperaHonse, Bourke-st,,East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.
WESTER.3M HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. A3T Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
£SP"° livery and letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Tbos,
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. OLARE - Proprietor


A. BOWMAN’S
LON don mads
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 31s.
349 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
OT Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather, ‘ajk
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool
Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
o
ON BROTHERS,
263 to 259 SENT STREET,
Trade and, If koleeale Buyer* Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
China anti
WINES, BEERS <fc SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. OA YEN’S,*
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
LIMITED.
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Salk to the
EARTHENWARE.
Agents for
IMPORTER OE
W 1 ZET IE S, x SPIRITS, x BEE IR, S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES;
JOB*
The SCOT F* WH ISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
The Best Port and Sheny AU k Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading
oi I>OTTLKi> Ale and f>xouT, arriving by monthly steamers. B
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Mftoiesale anti Single Uottie Departments, a „a Syaney
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST. ™
FIRST~OLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAYAf ORY
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
_ )x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Road.
HEADOrriCE; GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
HXTB'W'
BROS.’
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
10EK STEEET, WYNYARD SQE"AEE, SYDNEY,
Kow Supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Bridge St., Sydney.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season, 1888~89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
THE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
trAiT' Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL Ss 3-RAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes © grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Mann-
factored only at 76 New Oxford-st., London, pr- Pu r .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street. London, they are
spurious.
Gr
'I ENGINE SWEDISH MADE
CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
c. -A__
SOLE AGENT POE AUSTRALIA,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
IhglorQitf
HIGHLY NUTRIT4VE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS UH PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
Com
0
X
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin: is
most cooling and refreshing to the face in hot weather
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS' EUKON I A, a pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting, &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
Australian
270 GEORGE
RutoiDer Works,
STREET, SYDNEY.
LIMITED,
Raymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.P.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes,
CEKTSmi PUMPS,
2" to 40" discharge*
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
T .atliea.
b&ium mm.
&cw, 4a
advt
WINDING ENGINES.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines,
FLOUH-MILL ENGINES.
engines
Nft
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitahlar Boilers.
CORNISH BOILERS.
&c., &o.
We invite all those req
12 0,
1»X,
ft n JVt- 1 q r tt- a ■»»■ #>. ...
133
13 5
STREET, HAYMARKBT,
SYDNTE
