

A»k your
Grocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY A SORB, Bristol, Londor and Stdmbt.
“ An ordinary cap contain* more active properties of malt than a pint ol the beet Ale 01 Porter."— Lanobi.
THE
#
«S
L-J
ONLY ADDRESS IN SYDNEY :
Corner of the Sydney Arcade, George Street.
meant &
HABIT &
MILITARY TAILORS,
ROBE MAKERS.
S“cicces3 since Opening' in tlb-ia Cit. 37".
Jacket Suits to Measure -50 s,
And we Guarantee the Fit or MONEY RETURNED.
ELASTIC PANTS, cut by the best Cutters the World can produce and made to measure,
3 DOIiXiABS! 3
Special 3ST otlce.
We wish the public to understand that WE ARE NOT SLOP MANUFACTURERS —that all our establishments are
conducted and supervised by men of vast experience in all parts of the world. One of our able directors, Mr, A. ¥.
EERNE, is continually visiting our several branches in London, America and Australia, bringing with him ail the latest ideas
so necessary to conduct one of the largest and most successful firms in the world We also wish to point out that, when
ordering clothing from any of our Branches, if our customers are not thoroughly satisfied with the Fit, Style and Make, their
money will be returned.
Write for our FASHION CHART and SAMPLES. Post Free to all parts.
*ar
PLUS ARE NOTE OUB ADDRESSES :
MELBOURNE:
97 BOURKE STREET ;
99 BOURKE STREET, next to the Waxworks ;
104 BOURKE STREET, next to the Opera House ;
BOURKE STREET, corner of Eastern Market ;
3LO COLLINS STREET WEST ;
Warehouse—84 LONSDALE STREET WEST ;
GERTRUDE STREET, EITZROY.
AMERICA: Broadway and canal street.
LONDON
26 GREAT CASTLE STREET;
REGENT STREET WEST; 428 STRAND.
Hkad Okkicb :
29;:BA8INGHALL STREET.
A. W. FSRNE
N. M‘LKNNiN
J. H. BAIRS TOW
Man-aotng Dirmjtoks.
The Bulletin


TO BA
U
IXSOPS
'P
*
*
a
a
33
o
V
Pnn\
SIRROCtR
C 3
m
DIXSONS
Bxohlbior hotel, charters
TOWERS.
Iccond Brick Hotel Building erected' In above
iiCVB, li touted corner o Gill and Ohnroh Street*.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
A For Constipation, Indigestion
w
Stomach & Liver Complaints
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
01533
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE. —For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTE SIYE.—An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers (tnd of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White Rose” on “Golden
k Lyre,’ ’ with Address in full.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Bbash and Beu Focndhbh,
rumaißß, Plumbers, Gabpittebb, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Mediaeval Metal Workers
Boiler Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels,
ferity's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices— ll,ooo Fires already In usv
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description In
I«ob or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances,
M* At’CO*» WOUt, • M sea marie Place, Sydney, and Stamnere Road, Petersham*
M‘IjBAN BROS., RIG G, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
<o
Sir
6
IRONMONGERS
512
o
V
o
m
<*■
%
t
BPSSOIALITIEB;
Davis' Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
ELEOTEO-PLATED WAEB, OUTLEEY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES LBONIS FLETOHEE’S, JEANS & WALKEE’S.
„BEADFOED’S WASHING MACHINES, &o. t &o.
INSURE YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS! I
by taking
DUBE’S FLUID IUSIESU.
14 Oools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS
fFtdt Medical Testimonials, Analysis, dte,, accompanying sack bottle),
TAKE ONLY KRUSES.
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each.
Whe leßSO&glents, Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
04 COLLINS STREET EAST.
•spltal
Mid Aor rued Capital
Received
Midi
Tear ending
Oot., 1881.
£15d,425
61,630
03,681
118,348
*00,106
Tear ending
Oot., 1886.
£360,000
120,000
361,600
147,840 ,
461,086
Tear ending
Oct., 1887.
£431,126
206,685 .
801,356 .
807,828 .
797,890
Tear ending
Oot., 1888.
. £580,000
251,015
1,123,949
623,826
9,048,951
•< :
fooofaed ot following Botes :— U months, J per cent. > 6 months, 6 per
••at. | 8 months, 6 per cent. ‘ Special Terms for longer period*.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
INTEREST upon such sums at a
srlsh to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
jT DAY THAT n HEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
BjINCH offers tb< very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
nvn per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
iSfti fill! «or Borrowers. THIS USUAL,
H
1
JR
~ a r.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
OAN BK OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of U, p®
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are li
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Inters
amount to £25, when that sum ts paid over to their holders la Oas&.,
The holders of t is First Issue of these Shares received in Octets
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed ®s>i|
£l4 65., at the rata of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Mem. MBS SIM I©, H.P., J.P., T I Chafe-mam
WILLIAM ©OMEWTW - A(tti|‘««(ir^n.
■
SKwfe}
the i
Federal Coffee Palace
OOBNBR 0»
KZin.gr dz> Collins Streets, MelToo-arn©,
Containing 560 ROOMS, la now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Ylaltora,
PRIVATE SUITES off ROGERS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Tahfe
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL " GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Ifen*, presided over by an experienced Ckif, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOM*.
HOT, COLD end SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
George Cohen ... . Manager,


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No 472,
SATURDAY, MARCH 8, 1889.
Price, Bd.
|iity
Alfred Deakin, Victorian Chief Secretary.


The CalyinlaMc Protectant* of
here decided to enforce celibacy among *^ #ir
clergy.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors- : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-strkkt, Sydney, New South Walks.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor ivill carefully read and acknowledge in the
"Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles ,
Verse, Short Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in.
length, or say 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable) y
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. Alt
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential .
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tub Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, With whom wc do 7iot wish
to interfere.
T^ie^^xxlleizoi.
SATURDAY, MARCH 2, 1889.
The Reign of Peace.
The brave old band cf theorists who still
look forward to a shadowy millennium when
war and strife will cease, and competition
will die, and every man will sit down be-
neath hla own vine and fig-tree to dream
away a simple, pastoral existence, rusting,
mouldering, basking In the noonday sun,
loafing through long, somnolent years of
serene contentment, have good cause for dis-
couragement. The centuries are passing
away, and the old vision is approaching no
nearer to realisation. No one has time to
dream under the fig-tree and under the vine;
the day of pious Indolence and Arcadian
simplicity has not yet dawned, and Its dawn-
ing appears to be Indefinitely postponed ;
the vision of a race in a second childhood of
languid decay, living on herbs and fruits,
neither shedding nor desiring to shed blood,
dropping to pieces from the canker of dull
monotony amid harps and flowers and Chris-
tian resignation, Is too awful and too hope-
lessly Impossible to be worth serious
consideration. The fabled millennium of
the Church is fast dying a natural death.
The gilded legend of peace and unbroken
serenity on earth took Its rise In the fanciful
picture of a Chosen People, sheltered and
protected by a supernatural power, living a
life of simple Innocence under the shelter of
the vines of Palestine ; but the vines are
gone, and the Chosen People are gone, and a
half-naked race, caked with the hereditary
dirt of ten Insanitary centuries, and gritty
with the dust of their own demoralisation,
roost on the hills where the Day of Peace
should have dawned. And there Is no mil-
lennium as yet.
• • •
Apparently, too, there will be none. The
Federation of Man Is indefinitely postponed,
for man, In his present state, Is not of suffi-
ciently cohesive material to federate to
advantage, and the era of universal peace is
adjourned because the human race has not
learned, and apparently cannot learn, how to
endure peace without growing torpid and
degenerate and effeminate for want of some-
thing to kill. The Gospel, which was sent
to abolish strife, has failed because it has
been presented everywhere on the point of
tho bayonet —because the fragments of Its
broken creed are scrambled for by a hundred
warring sects who claw and curse each other
In a mad rush for supremacy—because In
every corner of tho earth the churches are
reaching for each other’s scalps, and howling
for each other’s blood and for the splinters
of each other’s gods. From the days when
Joshua’s Israeli!ish spearmen burst like a
devouring pestilence over Palestine, down to
the flabby, fleshy, unheroic era of Abigail
and the Escaped Nun, and Jos, Symes
and Cardinal Moran and the Presbyterian
Assembly of Victoria, religion has been
synonymous with strife and tumult, and
unless religion Itself can be abolished the
era of universal peace Is all but impossible.
And, next to religion, civilisation is the great
influence which keeps the flames of warfare
alight; the so-called “peaceful pursuits of
commerce” continue to drench the earth
with blood; Industry keeps up a great system
of international strife ; the vaunted scheme
of Free Competition turns the wide earth
into a stupendous battle-field ; and among
all these warlike Influences the millennium
keeps receding further and further beyond
the range of mortal vision, and the brother-
hood of man Is pub off sine, die.
* • *
Yet, even after thousands of centuries of
strife, the world Is still pervaded by Innumer-
able fanatics armed with nostrums for the
abolition of war and racial hatreds and inter-
national jealousies ; and prominent among
these muddled economists and foundered
philosophers the Freetrade organisations
rise to declare that their great doctrine of
Free Competition Is the one reliable cure for
all the Ills from which mankind has suffered
for ages. Speaking on this subject, a cer-
tain fiery apostle, whose words have roused
the Foreign-trade press of Australia to red-
hot enthusiasm, lately delivered himself
thus :
Freetrade means death to those hiteful sentiments
which divide nation from nation and set man against
man. It means the consummation of the aim which the
famous International Society set before itself—to be ac-
complished, however, not by setting class against class
and exciting the hatred of the working men against what
they call the bourgeoisie, or propertied class ; but the
union of all classes in all parts o! the world in one com-
mon interest, seeking every man to do good to every
other human being. Is there any ITgher aim than that ?
When I find my sympathies going out to every man on
the face of the globe, rich and poor, high and low ; when
I feel the certain conviction that the cauie of Freetrade
represents the cause of the manufacturers, of the working
men, of the sewing women, and even of the child in the
cradle, I feel the same enthusiasm for Freetrade as the
unlimited men feel on behalf of their cause, How com-
mon it is for Protectionists to say if we had the millennium
then it would be a good time for Freetrade. Why don’t
they start to bring about the millennium ? How can you
have the millennium unless you take a step toward it?
Freetrade is the first groat step toward the millennium, in
■which, the lion shall lie down with the lamb, and the lamb
not be inside.
• • •
Unfortunately, the picture crumbles to
dust on close inspection. There was a time
when all the world was run on a Freetrade
basis, before tariffs were Invented or Custom-
houses so much as dreamt of, and unless
history is one great, unanimous lie the world
was then even more bloodthirsty, more
brutal, more warlike, and more hopelessly
divided by racial hatreds than It Is to-day.
Away back in that old Freetrade era men
had not even began to dream that peace was
possible ; every separate collection of mud-
walled hovels called Itself a kingdom, and
the hands of Its citizens were against the
whole earth and all men’s hands were
against them. Every man had to be either
a slave-owner or a slave in those good old
days before Protection was Invented ; every
free man was a soldier and every soldier
taken in battle became a serf, and the one
and only title to social distinction lay In the
capacity of each man to kill somebody else.
Freetrade—regarded as a means of making
all mankind live at peace—was on its trial In
these days, and It left behind It no trace of
that lofty Influence for good which Its
fanatical admirers claim for It to-day.
Human nature cannot be abolished by fiscal
theories ; the temperament of the tiger is
not to be controlled by the duty on Imported
oats ; the hatreds of the white race and the
yellow will burn with as fierce a flame when
English boots come into Australia duty-free
as they did before. Until the abolition of
tariffs can so change the Chinaman as to
make him a creature to whom the white
Australian can give his daughter In marriage
without degradation to his race the warfare
between the two nations will go on as before.
And until the elevating moral Influence of
his political creed can Induce the Australian
Freetrader to cease stirring up religious
strife and hoisting the bloody shirt of sec-
tarian bigotry the world will fail to recognise
In his pet theory the panacea which is to end
all civil and religious warfare and leave the
whole world at peace.
• * •
Freetrade is, at best, only a euphonious
name for Free Competition, and Free Com-
petition ia a struggle for subsistence In which
every man’s hand Is against his neighbour,
and In which only the cheapest survives.
Every Freetrade country enters upon an un-
equal battle for the means of sustaining life,
and the nation which wins In the conflict Is
the one whose tollers can live on the smallest
pittance In order to undersell all rivals. Th 8
keenness of the struggle keeps production
always in advance of demand, and with
glutted markets prices continue to fall and
wages to go down in unison, until England,
the centre of the Freetrade propaganda, has
become a theatre for strange experiments, by
which theorists endeavour to determine the
smallest amount of comfort and happiness,
the lowest minimum of food, the fewest
rags and the poorest shelter by which a
seml-human toiler can be kept alive and in a
condition to maintain the eternal battle for
cheapness. The ceaseless effort to keep the
cost of production down to an unattainable
vanishing point has made cheapness, in fact,
the one supreme object of life, and the chief
end of man, according to the modern British
confession of faith, is to be a cheap animal
on a low-priced earth, worshipping a cheap
God, and worshipping him at the lowest
possible figure. The peaceful competition
of modern English industry costs more lives
in each year than have been lost In the
most sanguinary battle recorded in history,
and the horrors of war—regarding which so
much drivel has been offerc d up—shrink into
Insignificance by comparison with the horrors
of peace.
• • *
“Freetrade,” exclaims the orator already
quoted, “represents the cause of the manu-
facturers, of the working men, of the sewing
women, and even of the child In the cradle.
Freetrade Is the first great step towards the
millennium ” Well, the same old, hollow
theory has represented the cause of the
working women for thirty years, and here—
In the columns of the Pall Mall Budget —
Is the first sign of the promised millennium :
“ The plain English of it is that the human pair who
bring a child into the world for whom they cannot provide
food, clothes and lodging are criminals and should be
punished as such. So utterly helpless it sometimes seems
to try to get a subsistence wage for a decent woman that
we have often wondered whether, after all, it would not
be well to allow the hard-driven woman at least a choice
cf suicide as an alternative to vice. If, in every town,
there was established an asphyxiating chamber, in which,
on due declaration being made, the applicant, having ex-
hausted all means of procuring employment, preferred to
die rather than to purchase the means of subsistence by a
life of shame, we fear it would be much more used than
people imagine.”
Freetrade 1 Free Competition ! Free Suicide!
And this Is the dawning of that reign of
eternal peace, that era of universal brother-
hood of which we have heard so much.
• • •
Protection also means war, but war waged
within a narrower radius, and against fewer
enemies. Concerning this subject, Our Good
Words, a Melbourne religious journal, con-
ducted by Rav. Charles Strong, sums up
the position thus :
Protection may be, to a certain extent, a neoetsary
policy in a young country. But it should be borne in
mind what the principle of Protection implies. It implies
that there is an enemy—that enemy the world. Our
manufacturers want to make large profits, our working-
men, quite rightly, want to keep up wages above starva-
tion level. The world of trade and commerce, outside
our Australian circle, wants to keep all the big profits on
bat-making, boot-making, oloth-making, &c , to itself,
and the working people, outside the Australian circle,
not having been able to make such favourable terms with
their employers as Australians have made, are willing to
aooept the low wage, and even at times to be siveated, so
that they may live. The masters and the men of other
countries thus become, though from different motives,
our enemies. The master says—l will prevent you masters
over there setting up new factories, if I can, by sending
out my cheap goods : and the workman says—l must live,
and in order to get employment I will accept a wage
which yon in Australia would epnrn.
Protection, therefore, means that the countries of the
world are at war with one another, that Australian mer-
chants and manufacturers are struggling for profits and
fortunes with French, German, Amerion, and English
merchants and manufacturers ; that the Australian work-
ingman is struggling against foreign men-bants and
manufacturers who would send cheap goods into the
market, and so reduce wages, and that the Australian
workingman has to shake off his drowning brother in the
old world, lest the brother should drag him down to bis
low level.
No doubt, In the opinion of the Rev. Charles
Strong, this Is rough on the drowning
brother of the old world, but, unhappily, It
is Inevitable ; if that aaphyxlated relative
cannot keep afloat by hfs own exertions, we
can offer him no assistance. Xu the battle of
industry each nation must consider Itself
alone. In other fields of strife, quarter is
granted to the vanquished, but in the peace-
ful paths of trade, there is no quarter and no
mercy. Therefore Mr. Strong’s half-expressed
reproach concerning the hostile nature of
a protective policy falls flat. No Protec-
tionist has ever yet attempted to prove that
his system means peace, for peace is an un-
attainable and non-existent thing; and the
Freetrader who boasts—as many New South
Wales Freetraders have lately boasted—that
his particular fiscal faith Is an agency whose
mission It 1s to abolish strife utters a palpable
falsehood, for no strife which the world has
yet known can compare with the Interminable
battle of industrial competition.
* • *
Hunger Is one of the most potent elements
of all kinds of warfare. The British mer-
chant Imports cheap Chinese or Indian goods
Into England on the ground that they are
lower In price than similar goods of English
manufacture, and until the English work-
man Is prepared to toil at so low a wage as
to bring down the products of his Industry
to the Indian os Chinese level the local
factories are closed, and the English workma
Is consigned to starvation. Like a soldier q
a beleaguered city, the slow, remorseless
pressure of want compels him to succumb,
and till this end Is achieved his enemy—the
peaceful merchant—maintains his hold and
waits the result. But often there la no
mercy even In surrender, and In this respect
the ferocity of the least civilised of European
nations la mild compared to Ihe pressure of
Free Competition. The skilled Asiatic
mechanic regards five shillings per week as a
reasonable remuneration for his toil; freight
and other charges attending the Importation
of his goods probably equal another shilling
weekly ; therefore, when the fast-growing
factories of India and China have attained
such a degree of Importance that these
countries are prepared tosupply England with
a sufficiency of manufactured goods the
English workman, under the Freetrade
system, must either accept the miserable
dole of six shillings weekly or remain per-
manently unemployed. If he refuses the
Impossible wage which Free Competition
renders necessary he dies of rapid starvation;
If he surrenders and accepts the terms
offered him he dies of starvation also.
Unlike the soldier who yields to a conquer-
ing army, he receives no mercy In either
case. His life is a ceaseless battle for
existence with the whole world for an anta-
gonist, and If he comes off victorious In the
contest the reward of victory Is merely
additional degradation. It is not the fittest,
but the cheapest, who survives ; the object
of bis life’s struggle is to live by being the
lowest-priced of the earth’s tollers and con-
sequently the most miserable and the most
degraded ; if he wins It Is because he is the
cheapest and meanest beast of burden alive ;
f he loses It 1s because be has failed to Invent
new degradations sufficient to meet the
demands of Free Competition and the exi-
gencies of peaceful industry.
* • •
The object of Protection is to thake off this
diowning world and stand as far as possible
from the ruinous warfare by which it is con-
vulsed. Under the tariff's of America, France,
Germany, Canada, Victoria, and other
countries, it is a matter of indifference to
the working classes of there nations that the
Hindoo or the Chinaman is prepared to do
their work for one-sixth of their wages and
leave them unemployed ; the only competi-
tion which they have to consider is that
which arises within their own borders, and
the Influence of trades-unionism is sufficient
to prevent that degenerating into a frantic
struggle for the means of slow, agonising
starvation. The policy of Protection is one
of non-intervention and neutrality; the
policy of Freetrade compels its votaries to
fight in every battle and skirmish of
that eternal world - wide campaigns
the struggle of universal competition—
the Interminable contest in which only the
cheapest, be he Hindoo or Chinaman, Malay,
Kanaka, or Negro, can ultimately survive
The one system means warfare within narrow
limits and among a comparative handful o f
civilised combatants ; the other means end-
less strife with the whole world for an an-
tagonist. Peace, in any case, Is unattainable*
and the writer or orator who holds up any
fiscal or political system yet Invented as a
means towards the attainment of the fabled
millennium propagates a glaring falsehood
which only passes current even for an In-
stant through the vastness of human ignor-
ance and the scanty measure of public
intelligence. As man Is now constituted
peace is Impossible, and, were It possible,
the first century of absolute peace would
be the last chapter In the world’s his-
tory. Man must fight, whether In actual
warfare, in the strife cf commercial
industrial competition, or against the forces of
Nature, and all that human policy can do is
to enable him to fight under conditions which
will make life endurable. Absolute peace
only means Inaction, rust, decay, and de-
generation ; the millennium of the Church—
If it ever arrives—will bring with It nothing
but ruin and the mental dry-rot which comes
of Indolence and langour, dreamy, stupefied
contentment, and dull satiety; strife wifi
cease and In Its stead there will be the
somnolent happiness of the opium-eater as
he wanders through the misty mazes of his
visionary Paradise ; and at last the human
race will totter Into the grave, worn out for
the want of a purpose—wrecked for lack of
new worlds to conquer. If Freetrade leads
to such a goal then Freetrade, for that
reason alone, is a guide-post pointing the
road which ends In destruction.


T7IOREIGN AND COLONIAL EXCHANGE
V BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite Custom House).
Directors ;
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq , Chairman
E. C. V. BROUGHTON, Esq ; T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual barking
business.
Interest on Deposits :
12 Months
fi
3
II
»I
6|
55
per cent,
n
»»
T. S. RICHARDSON ... Managing Director.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Times-Parnell Fiasco.
Bob all practical purposes, the Times-Parnell
inquiry is over—all except the stupendous bill for
legal expenses. The three Tories in horse-hair
wig* may still potter away taking evidence and
piling up law costs—they may even bring in a ver-
dict to the effect that Mr. Pabnell is a Wfaiteboy,
Fenian, dynamiter, and promiscuous assassin of
the deepest dye, but nothing can now cover the
awful collapse of the Times conspiracy, or make
that j ournal appoar in future as anything better than
a printed idiot of the poorest order. The “ leading
British journal” of the day—the Thunderer,
whose Isaden foot has squashed so many reforms -
the literary Pumblechook of modern times, whose
pompous dulness has so long passed for sagacity,
and whose dense ignorance has been mistaken for
haughty reserve, has been sold by a stupid Irish
informer, given away by a transparent adventurer,
cozened, swindled, fooled, and held up to public
mockery. It has fallen into a trap which even a
parish beadle might have known enough to avoid,
andiu its fat, well fed self complacency it has
gone out of its way to challenge exposure and dis-
grace. The famous “Parnell letters,” as it
proves, ware taken on trust from a shady in-
former, who now attempts to acoount for thdr
existence by stating that he bought them from
somebody who has gone away, that he received
them from somebody who was disguised beyond
recognition, that he was sent for by a man
whom he never saw before, who gave him
cortaiu mysterious documents in a mysterious
fashion and then vanished myttirlously and was
never heard of again Ibis only the old, hackneyed
story told by the forger, and the coiner, and the
sneak thief over again. Tae plain, unvarnished nar-
ratlroof these artists always runs that they changed
a dubious coin fer a total stranger in the street, or
that they cashed a cheque for a gentlemanly -
lookiug foreignar who appeared to be above suspi-
cion, and the one awful grief which weighs upoa
their souls is that the person who led them astray
never comes forward to clear their characters in
the hour of need. The Times informer, however,
seems to have been only a shade less foolish than
the Times itself. A combination of greed and
stupidity led him to write to Archbishop Walsh
offering, for a reasonable consideration, to expose
the whole elaborate tissue of forgery and con-
spiracy, and when this unhappy letter was read
before him in court the case and the informer
broke down together. He admitted that he had
offered to state—in consideration of £sooo—that
the documents he had produced were not altogether
what they seemed, and that he had volunteered —
for money—to prove Mr. X’abnells innocence
just as he had already undertaken —for money—to
prove his guilt. He acknowledged cheerfully that
he had sold himself to everybody who would buy
him, aud had done his best to sell himself to a
number of people who didn’t want to buy him,
aud that ho had sold pretty nearly everybody
who bought him—the worst sell being reserved
for his original purchaser, the Times, It was a
woeful breakdown, and unless English Toryism
is imponetrable in its mail-clad denseness the
Times will never recover the shock. For years
the views of that paper have been recalved as
gospel by a nation which was too slow to perceive
that the opinions of the Times were only, after
all, the personal opinions of two men —one, the
proprietor, a thick-skulled country squire whose
agricultural intelligence was bounded on the one
side by horses and on tha other by dogs ; the
other, a fifeh-rate journalist whom the dull-
headed landowner has hired to edit his paper
because their two intelligences were very much on
a par. But because this pair of bucolic intellects
called themselves the Times they were able to
pose as the oracles of the British Empire—until in
an evil hour they tried to do a little more than
turn the crank of their huge printing-machine,
and fell to piecos in the effort to do or be or say
something original to illustrate the long dismal
Pages of wasted ink which make up their common-
place lives,
The New South Wa T cs Hebrew Vote.
Mm Bkhnhaed Ringnose - nob hook nose— Wise
as a complaint to make about the way the Dibbs
Government didn’t allow him proper facilities for
beiapp successful at South Sydney. If the Ad-
Miiciitration had carefully nursed that electorate
80 mb to block as many Protectionist voters as
Possible, and at the same time to give every
"ttaginable facility to Foreign-trade electors, Mr.
Wis® thinks that the result would have been
different. Owing, however, to “ the manipulation
of the Government in fixing Saturday as the poll-
icg day, the bulk of the Jewish community was,
through conscientious scruples, disfranchised,”
the consequent reticence of the sons of .) udah
* a8 fhus the cause of Mr. Wisk's falling off. Had
election been fixed for a Friday, as it was when
00 Parkis Cabinet “manipulated” things,
Wany hundreds of workmen who were not Jews,
u t only Australians, would have been debarred
roni v °ting, but this probably would not have
jittered much. Anyhow, Mr. Ring nose Wise
06 8 dead sure and absolutely positive that Gad
an d Manasseh, and Asher, and other tiibes
r°Md have voted for him as one Hebrew, if they
th i° a 6 b° w > and be considers that cne of
lik 0W . F8 * , ’ nearest, and most beastly and bj seua-
e, things that a Government could do was to
06 conscientious temples of Palestine
*he sake of any number of common, local
Ho The conscientious scruples of
ch e* 1 about secular education, don-
0iiBhsUUW ’ ** wfu!1 y degrading things, which
whf, to . P ub down with a pile-driver, and
Pap'V* 1 80 muc b as hinted that a solitary
18 » has a conscientious scruple anywhere—
even in the remotest part of the country—the yelp
goes up that “ Protestant Ascendancy ” —Pabkes’
phrase—is cracked in six places and requires to be
baled out, but the conscience of the Hebrew race,
when it wants to come out and vote for Wise, is
a plant which should be watered and tenderly
looked after. For our own part, however, we
don’t feel so sure about the Jewish vote, after all.
For weeks previous to the election the country
was littered with Freetrade cartoons, squibs, and
caricatures, in which the Hebrew-stolen mostly
out of New York Puck —was depicted as a bloated,
hook-nosed, pot-bellied emblem of Protectionist
monopoly, and possibly if the Chosen People had
been able to get eff the chain on that eventful
afternoon in South Sydney, they might have come
forth to avenge this insult and make matters even
a little worse than they were. And, in any case,
the Jews were not the only sufferers for conscience
sake on that particular Saturday, and there is no
reason why Mr. Wise should be eo exclusive in
his sympathies. Our principal grief is centred
upon the Seventh-day Baptists, whose conscien-
tious scruples kept them from conc?'ng out to put
Mr. WISE a little nearer the tail cf the list than
he actually was, but at the same time we would
not have desired to see the election held on a
Friday, in which case a number of deserving
Mohammedans might have been disfranchised—
in fact, it would hava been impossible to
select any day in any part of the week
without treading on the corns of some faith
or other, for Sabbaths are strewn all over the
almanac. Therefore, we rise to suggest that at
future general elections the poll should be held on
Sunday, and the Sabbath should be shifted round
to Tuesday, and then to prevent the calendar
getting tangled up, Monday might be officially de-
clared to be the entuing W( dees day afternoon, and
Thursday could be appointed as next Friday three
weeks. If this suggestion fails to satisfy all
parties concerned, then the Foreign-trader is too
cantankerous to be satisfied with anything short
of the whole earth.
*
“ The Saving Litt'e Boy.”
Now that “Tiger” Inglis has been successfully
fired out of the Ministerial chair of the New
South Wales Education Department, the long-
suffering Public School teacher lifts up his bruised
head and asks for justice. Under the regulations
issued by Minister Inglis, the teacher is obliged
to combine the duties of classical, mathematical,
and scientific instructor, house f-1 *vey, and banker
to “ the kids.” He is supposed to get up betimes
in the morning and take a bucket of water and
scrubbing-brush and clean out the school. This
job done, he can take a turn at chopping wood
(wood provided at his own expense) and if it is a
cold day he is expected to build a fire. Cleaning Ihe
youngsters’boots is not expressly mentioned— Mr.
Inglis, we suppose, considering that the average
teacher’s good taste and gentlemanly instincts
would render any rigid rule on this point unneces-
sary. In addition to these duties he is obliged to
act as banker for the school and encourage the
children to lodge their pennies with him on fixed
deposit instead of squandering them on the fleet-
ing joys of ginger-bread and taffy. The latter
duty is what the teacher now rises in public meet-
ing assembled bo scornfully repudiate. We second
that. One reason is that we don’t like youngsters
who bank their pocket-money. Give us the
hearty juvenile who, when he gets possession of a
coin, never mind how, bakes his chums bo the
nearest cake-stall and stands an extrava-
gant blow-out. The boy who saves his
pocket-money always parts his hair nicely,
and has a serene facial get-up resembling that of
John Davies. He is generally letter-perfect in
his basks, and spends the play-hour in negotiating
swaps in pocket-knives and marbles with his
younger companions, and lends his money at in-
terest, as did Ralph Nickleby in his school-days
—twopence interest weekly on every halfpenny.
In after-life you find him in a land-syndicate or
rutm'ng a pawn shop under the disguise of a
“ bank,” and charging the working man 100 per
cent, interest on a loan secured on his horse and
cart—wearing a white waistcoat, courting a girl
with money, and putting up for Parliament in the
interests of Foreign trade. The New South Wales
education system never contemplated the special
encouragement of this sort of youth, and if any cf
the protesting pedagegues will come down here
when we are not particularly engaged and just
present his back at the cffice door, we will have
much pleasure in patting it,
*
Corruption.
1 1- the New South Wales daily press hungers and
thirsts after a subject for public vituperation the
open, blush’ess, and brazen offers and promises
held out as politic! I baibi by Sir Hjnry Paekes
during the late electoral contest furnishes a
congenial theme. Wherever that baleful politi-
ci*n vlanted his fcob it dawned upon his mind
that the district wanted a railway, or a bridge, or
a new gaol, or a lank, or a post-office, or some-
thing ; and in nearly every case it happened that
that particular gaol or tank, or whatever it might
be, was the object of all objects on earth that he
had long been hungerine and thirsting to confer
upon that particular district. Further, the old
roan was careful to point out that if the electors 1
would only vote the Foreign-trade ticket and
return him to power, his very first public act
would be to give them the railway they wanted,
and if they wanted two or more railways,
be insinuated in a roundabout way that they
might have them at once. Also the gaol and tl <;
post-office would be sent along, and if one bridge
wasn't enough they could have two or three or
four bridges, and as to other things the windows
of heaven would be opemd and it would rain
tanks for 10 days snd 10 nights. Speaking at
Parramatta he observed that —
If he had remained in power he would have made the
railway to Dural, ard have given the fruit-growers a
market for their fruit.
Parramatta voted solid—very likely en (bo
very strength of this promise—and the Sydney
importers are now endeavouring to procure special
railway arrangements which will allow of Vic-
torian fruit being brought to Sydney at ower
rates and in greater quantities than have ever
been known before, with the natural result that
the local growers will be swamped to a greater ex-
tent in the future than in the past, but this is
only a tr.'fla; let us pass on. At Kempsey Paekes
observed ; —
He bad noticed atroagst other thirgs that they had not
a bridge even into their town. It he rould fitd anything
in which he could be of service to them, depend upon it
he would render that service if he could do it consistently
with his duty to the whole country. [Booh ! The
o’d, old wheezv—Eo. B ] Tae time had come
for (he construction of a brioge over the Macleay River,
so as to connect Erst and West Kempsey.
Speaking of bridges it is worth noting that
Paekes was struck with the same thing at North
Shore, Sydney, and that patient constituency has
been a-sured by him that its bridge was coming
at every election for several years past. “Now,
who will stand on either hand and build the bridge
with me?” he cried in a poetic frerzy, and the
audience thought the remark was original. To the
residents of Manly Paekes also promised a bridge
—over Middle Harbour—but neither has ever j et
been accomplished. He has abo premised all
these long-suffering constituencies that he would,
at the earliest possible date, pass a Local Govern-
ment Act—by which they would be left to build
and pay for their own bridges, but apparently
they failed to notice the discrepancy. At Kempsey
again, the old man spoke some more :—
1! he had remained in efflee bis Government would
have been projecting the railway from the Hunter to the
Tweed.
Under the new Act, which Paekes copied from
the Victorian measure, the Government has com-
paratively little to do with the projection of
new lines, but this pomt was jadicicurly
dropped out of sight. Everywhere, in every
part cf New South Wales, railways were
promised—if Paekes was returned to power;
bridges were guaranteed—provided the Foreign-
traders were sent back to cffice ; tanks and wells
and courthouses w< re offered with a lavish hand —
if the people voted straight and sent the cold-
blooded old man back to office to forget all bis
promises with the same graceful alacrity which
has practically buried the North Shore Bridge in
oblivion Everywhere there was wholt sale bribery
and corruption of this description, and still the
daily press of Sydney has sh-wn no sign of the
unspeakable loathing which fills them whenever
an anonymous correspondent writes to state, on his
own unsupported authority, that a Protectionist
member has guaranteed to have the remains cf
one dead dog removed from the main street of a
town which didn’t vote the Paekes’ ticket. What
does this “ominous silence ” mean ?
+
The Fable of the Yellow Dog end the Iamb.
Once upon a time thf re was a Yellow Dog who
went to quench his thirst in a stream ctiled the
River of Protection, and he saw a lamb also
quenching his thirst lower down the stream.
“ Hi, you there ! ’ he said —“how dare you drink
of this stream? Don’t you know that you are
undermining the great and glorious Education
Act of New South Wales ?'*
“Indeed!” said the Lamb, “I have no inten-
tion of interfering with the Education Act. I
never raid a Word about it.”
“ Thau’s jutt io,” said the Yellow Dog—“ Yi u
are preserving an Ominous Silence. I hate people
that k°ep their mouths shut. Why don’t you s»y
something agiiast the Education Act so that I
may have a pretext to bite you ? ”
“ I assure you,” said the Lamb, “ that I do not
care a bullock-driver's Oath about the Education
Act one way or the other. Why should not
you and I drink petcsably of this stream
of Protection, We are both hot and thirsty
and faint from journeying over the desert plains
of Fort ign-Trade It will do both of us good ; and
there is here plenty of water for all.”
“Nc,” said the Djg, “I will not have it. Hun-
dreds of years ago your ancestors and mine were
at variance in a distant country, and it suits me to
keep up the old feud whether you like it or not ”
JBj“ But,” said the Lamb, “We are in a new
country now, and all those B old world fights should
be forgotten. Let us booh drink, and you ran
then go and keep watch on the Eiucation Act.”
“ No,” said the Dog, “I must keep up the pre-
tence of a quarrel between us, or else I would not
get fed. 1 am k‘pt to bite, so I must bite some-
body, ’—and, so saying, he barked the war-cry of
“Public Schools in Danger!” and, after much
trouble, succeeded in driving the lamb from the
water. Neither of them got a drink, though they
both wanted it badly.
Mural :
It doesn't take two to make a quarrel.
At the approaching Victorian elections a vigorous
attempt will be made to put the political ex-
tinguisher over the pertly form of Thomas Bent,
Esq., member for Brighton. Mr James Campbell,
a not unpleasant specimen of unco guidnees, will
be run in severe opposition to Thomas, and the
electors of Brighton are thus offered a choice
between a peaceful Tory who takes a sanctified
pride in his professions, and a brawling Tory who
has posed as a Radical, or has teen so styled by
that section of the press which cunningly, and
with malice aforethought, connects rowdy ism with
patriotism. The true radical carse in Victoria
tras long greaned under ihe nominal leadership
of Mr. Tom Bent, a gentbman who pursues a
sham course cf “obstruction” on unimportant
issues, but rather aids than obstructs the dangerous
flow of Imperial grovel- This very hollow “Radi-
cal is a professed admirer of the dear Governor.
He wept over the kindness of His Excellency in
writing him a letter of condolence “ with his own ;
hand ’ his own vice-regal band ! when he (Mr
Bent) was in a damaged state through stumbling
o' er a step. He appears to believe in every soro
of political patronage except the patronage of
gen'.u*, for his was the noisiest voice which pro-
tested against a Government grant to the family
of Marcus Clarke Be is a millstone round the
neck of the party which sits in very necessary
opposition to Duncan Gillies, and if the electors
of Brighton consider their Thomas calmly and
quietly they will permit him to slide forthwith.
Certain prominent members of the Devil’s Bri-
gade in Sydney are moving heaven and'earth to
get Harry Lkvikn, solicitor and member of Par-
liament, struck off the roll of lawy enfor having,
as alleged, been in partnership with one Rawlings,
who, the ugh not a solicitor, was allowed to cany
on business in the suburb in I evun'S name This
matter in to st nee affects the public, save in so far
as it serves to paint a valuable moral for the cr-
dir ary noa-piotected worker. In New South
Wales the lawyers are the best-protected guild in
the world, and uo-day we are told that they base
again raised the admission fees. Any rascal may
hang out a shingle and call himself “doctor,” and
monkey with the carcase of his fellow
man, and take pay for luring the latter to
physical destruction ; anybody may call himself
“reverend” and get himself called reverend by
the daily papers, and preach false doctrines and
fill his fellow-man with heresy, and send him soul
and body into Sheol (so the orthodox parson would
tell you), and yet the medical guild or the parsoni-
cal guild, as the case may be, has no remedy. If
an engineer or a bootmaker disobeys the dictum of
his guild, that guild may do its best to deprive
him of his living, but there is no trade-organisa-
tion save that over which the Evil One presides,
which has at its beck and call a tribunal —the
Supreme Court —capable of enforcing its decisions
und p r pain of fine and imprison mens. And yet
mcst of the lawyers call themselves Freetraders,!
4
“ Veni ” writing to The Bulletin on the heredi-
tary criminality-question offers some pertinent re-
marks. Our correspondent says:—’‘ln dealing
with hereditary criminals, it must be borne in
mind that it is the female that propagates. In
nature, illegitimate conceptions are rendered
abortive; if it were not so, and all propagations
came to maturity, wbat heterogeneous productions
there would be ! but nature provides against this
by restrictions on the power to precreate. Cannot
society follow the example set by nature, by en-
forcing greater restrictions on the immoral con-
duct of its members ? But before this can be ac-
complished a new moral code will be required—one
more in conformity with Nature, Tne time must
come when mcrality in its highest sense will over-
come supernatural adorations.”
+
Millionaire Ededekin, in returning thanks at
a picnic-luncheon given by himself to his brother
footballers and other disinterested admirers who
helped to hoist him to the head of the poll at East
Sydney election, artfully swung round from ques-
tions parliamentary to questions municipal, and,
alluding to the Sydney IWayoiship, said that
“ should he realise his ambiticus design of being
elected next Dfcember, he could point to his past
career ns a public man as an evidence that that
high cffice would not suffer in public esteem, nor
its hospitality be dispensed in a niggardly or par-
simonious man nor while he cccupiad the chair.”
The Ass-owner evidently reckons up his admirers
at their proper value. “Municipal h nour” is
cbif fly a matter of free “ grub ” and “guzzle.” If
anybody doubts this let him go to the Sydney
Town Hall, where they have the biggest cooking-
stove south of the Equator,
-
The Sydney “Single Tax” party’s secretary
states that the “triumph of one democrat does
not necessarily mean the triumph of democracy,”
and that “the system which protected Carnegie
did not protect his working men in the least.”
That Protection, like Foreign-trade, has little to
do directly with the equitable distribution of
wealth every careful thinker will admin; but that
i h , by the interral creation of wealth, affords labour
an opportunity of employment, and thus, through
the increased demand for labour and the combina-
tion of workeis, an opportunity for obtaining
more equitable remuneration than that afforded
by Foreign-trade, under whose baleful influence
the importation of extern ally-created wealth for
ever tugs the toiler down bo the lower standard of
living of the slave worker elsewhere, can scarcely
be effectually denied, even by Secretary Pulsfobd.
“Protection tempen d by trades unionism ” is
not a thing to be despised 1 y the worker.
♦
Busing the recent New South Wales general
elections the Sydney D.T. boldly proclaimed that
the cure for cur ills was not Protection, and them
it artfully insinuated that Land Nationalisation
was the real panacea. Is the Daily Teleghauh,
a land-auction and softgoeds organ, in earnest in
the matter? No fear. It has published many
letters on the subject, but has been very careful
indeed to make no (ffuial declaration that the
‘' Single Tax ”is its ideal fiscal goal. Moreover,
it never will. The strategy of the DT. has won
the support of certain enthusiastic young men
who advocate Land Nationalisation over to tie
side of the “White Waistcoat” crowd; this
achieved, it will fool them till evasion is no longer
possible, and will then desert them. Good, old
genuine DT. ! When Assistant-Editor Gdllext,
one of the biggest literary lights and biggest
shareholders of the B.T. aforesaid, was attached
to the Aegus cffice in the Beery time, he fought,
with the rest of the staff, like a tiger on the side
of the Southern White Waistcoat party in favour
cf Foreign trade and against the taxing of big
estates. Experien iia does it.
♦
Aftke duly considering the surroundings of the
case, Pope Leo has dec’cbd to grant the privilege
of Christian burial to the Austrian Archduke
Rudolph, who rcc ntly blew out the hereditary
brains of the Hapsburgs fro r Lis be.d at Meyer -
ling. fiber asonassigned by Leo fer this decision
is that Rudolph extiepu'shed himself in a mom eat
of temporary insanity, aid the memory cf one of
his last exploits, when he and the crowd of jovial
d?gs who tollowc d in h's train, amus< d themselvi s
by breaking up a fuce al and holing jumping
matches over tbe coffin and the corpse, Jendsiome
col or to tie theory. But the R.C. Church is
not always so liberal in its views. Rudoiph died,
mote or less, “ a’ong of a woman;” and when
Tekenck Flanmgan, vvlo kept a I o'el in
Strawberry Bills, runs away with Nokah
O’Ryan in tha street beyant— I Tebence Flanni-
gan being already the lawful husband of Bridget
Flannigan, who is alwajs just going away to
clean herself —praise be to the saintd but is never
visible to the public in an actually cleaned condi-
tion and Nobah O’Etan being the wedded wife
of Patheick O'Ryan who carts dirt for the Cor-
poration —and the gay publican hangs himself be-
cause of the tbrouble übab follows, he also ,dies
“ along of a woman,” but with very different re-
sults. He gets no Christian burial, and there is
no temporary insanity in his case, and Pope Leu
does not trouble about him, neither do the
Cardinals sib in solemn conclave to consider hia
melancholy fate. Not much ! Yet we would as
soon be the dead publican as the dead
after all.


For civility, comfort, and all the luxuries
of a really first-class establishment, the Grand
Hotel, Wynyard-square, canrot be surpassed. It
is supplied with splendid billiard-rooms, elegant
suites of apartments, and unrivalled liquors, and
is fitted up with every appliance invented by
modern civilisation to make life pleasant. The
cuisine is second to none in Sydney, and no effort
is spared to make the patrons of the Grand Hote
thoroughly comfortabe.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 90 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
High Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
& GO., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Caiington
“ By Appointment.”
Ben franklin printing offioh
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACIARDf,
Stationer, Engraver; General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookblndeii
Account Book Manufacturer, &0., &o.
Maolardy's JtS Box of Stationery a specialty. Sew l f° r
List of Contents.
Note Address— ——
819 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Card*
and Fancy Goods. Inspection Invited.
Stork Cattlh for Sale.—looo male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville*
Queensland.
• Mr. Henry Edward Kater, of Moss Yale, son-
ia-law of the late William Forster, has been ap-
pointed a member of the New South Wales
Legislative Council. — Daily Paper.
The nine men Premier Dibba sent to the
Upper House all drink Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
A Sydney daily paper inquires whether a
woman is at the bottom of the violent antipathy
entertained by the local D. T. against Premier
Dibbs.
Six Mongolians, of Melbourne, after losing
all their money in another leper’s lottery, broke
into his store and scooped the pool. The name of
the victimised heathen is _Ah Skin. He se ems to
skin the leper pretty considerably.
A proposal has been made to the yaiious
Australian Governments by an enterprising firm
to pay well for the tight to print advertisement s
on the gummed side of postage stamps. Should
the idea be entertained it is bound to be a success
—it will be on everybody’s tongue
We have received from Mr. H. Collard,
Central Arcade, Sydney, a copy of the
Christmas number of that bright English publica-
tion Chatterbox. It contains five coloured
pictures, all of them printed in Holland. It would
not surprise ua to find one day that Chatterbox
itself was printed in Holland.
We have received a well got-up catalogue
of the account-books. &o , manufactured by Mr.
W. E. Smith, of George-street and Bridge-street,
Sydney. Mr. Smith is a freeman of the worship-
ful company of Stationers, Stationers’ Hall, Lon-
don, an i is entitled to use the coat of arms of
that mediaeval guild.
Dan Yell O’Connor, Im Pay, exhorted the
electors o? East Macquarie (N.S.W.) to rise as one
man and defeat the Dibbs Government, whom he
characterises as “ adventurers in office.” It’s just
this way : Should the shoddy party again accede
to power they will, no doubt, on the principle of
throwing a bone to a dog, without being very par-
ticular whatkindof dog itis, try to curry favour with
the more ignorant of the Irish party by including
Mr. Daniel O’Connor aforesaid in their Govern-
ment as Postmaster-General or Minister fer
Blatherskite.
PoorLsveatam, M.H.R. for Nelson (N.Z.),
very suddenly crossed the Big Divide, a few nights
ago. He was a Danish Jew, and hampered with
a bad accent, but was thoroughly posted in Parlia-
mentary business, gifted with a marvellous
memory, a rather distressing cacoi thes loqumdi,
and enormous industry. As a radical politician
he was “square as they make ’em;” as a man,
libsral-minded, kind, and honest. He has, most
probably, gone aloft, and ere this has made his
maiden-speech in an arena where his accent will
be as good as anybody else’a.
Thus the Pall Mall Gazette on the
N.S.W. political crisis “The defeat and resig-
nation of the New South Wales Ministry yester-
day is another unfortunate instance of the poverty
of personnel in colonial politics. The defeat was
consequent upon a protest against the appoint-
ment of a Mr. Fehon on the Railway Board. Mr.
Fehon had indeed been exonerated by an official
inquiry from the charges alleged against him, but
as, nevertheless, the motion against his appoint-
ment was carried by three to two, we may con-
clude that he was not above suspicion. What
proportion, we wonder, of colonial politicians
are?”
On the polling day for East Macquarie
(N S.W.), a large coach drawn by five splendid
horses in the very pink of condition carried a
crowd of miners from Lewis’ Ponds to Kelso, and
arrived at the polling booth at 2 o’clock ; having
travelled over a rough bush road for 27miles. Some
idea of what the trip was like can be formed from
the fact that one horse dropped dead about six
miles from Bathurst, another died within half-an-
hour after arriving at Kelso, and a third could
scarcely stand up long enough to allow the harness
to be taken off him. All the passengers voted
straight for Foreign-trade, and as one of the
candidates remarked, “ the cattle died in a good
cause.”
A new aad Ingenious invention entitled,
“Tie Tatham Heat Detector and Fire Alarums,’
was given a most successful trial, last week, in the
warehouse of Messrs. John Wilson & Co , 59 York-
street. The inventor (Mr. Tatham) was present,
and the most copious tests were applied to the
alarmers which were placed in various positions
throughout the upper portion of the premises,
with a result that must have been most gratifying
to the inventor and all others interested. The
detector is composed of a glass tube blown into a
closed bulb at one extremity, and exposed to the
air at the other. The motive power is obtained
from the expansion of the air contained in the
glass bulb acting on the large surface area of a
quantity of mercury placed in the enlarged part
of the tube, which forces it toward the top of the
smaller tube and eventually touches the wire, thus
closing the circuit whereupon the signal is given.
By raising or lowering the wire in the tube the in-
strument can be set for any temperature required.
In one instance the heat of the hand was shown to
be sufficient to give the signal. Oapt. Wynde-
men, of the ship “ Ensman,” stated his inten-
tion of having his vessel fitted with this apparatus
before leaving the port. It is understood that
insurance-companies will grant liberal concessions
to those adopting it. Orders have already been
given to fit up ships, and about 25 or 30 firms are
adopting it for warehouses, etc.
The appointment by Premier Dibba to the
N.S.W. Legislative Council of nine Protectionists
has evoked a shriek of indignation from the
Foreign-trade press. Most of the new members
are me a of some distinction ; so far as the public
knows they are chiefly men of progressive sym-
pathies and broad views, and none of them carry
with them the effluvium which attached to John
Davies, M.L.C., one of the latest Foreign-trade
nominees. Hitherto the N.S.W. Upper House
has consisted almost exclusively of persons re-
markable for nothing in particular except their
wealth and their dismal Toryism. “They are my
own creatures,” said Parkes a year or two ago, on
an occasion which is still noted as one of the very
few on which the old man adhered closely to un-
varnished fact. All the while that Protection
has been growing into a mighty power in
N.S.W,, successive Foreign-trade Ministries
have continued to shovel the John Davieses
and other unsavoury leavings of their rarty
into an irresponsible Council—whose mission
it is to block popular legislation. Even had the
Protectionists returned to power with a three-
fourths majority the Foreign-traders might still
have confidently relied on the stolid obstinacy of
the Upper House to block every democratic
measure—payment of members among the rest.
In the New South Wales Assembly Protection
and Foreign-trade are evenly balanced, thanks
to the ten-fold votes of the Sydney im-
porters, which lent a fictitious air of strength to
the shoddy interest at the polls. In the country
Protection is the political creed of at least half
the electors; and the action of Premier Dibbs,
whether or not it should prove to be a
tactical blunder, has now secured to this half
cf the nation the miserably scanty representa-
tion which is comprised in, say one eiyhtk of
the voting power of the nominee branch q? the
Legislature. The Council is leavened—it is no
longer exclusively the echo of Parkes and the
wealthy fraction of the nation which still follows
that senile bridegroom, and therefore the Foreign-
trade Press rises in the boiling heat of its indigna-
tion, to point out the thrice-accursed treason, the
general accursedness, and the “ odious, insulting,
and unjustifiable” policy, which has secured to
its opponents even a shadow of their just share of
power in the Upper House. As to the contention
of the White Waistcoat Press that Governor
Carington acted foolishly in taking the advice of
his Ministers with regard to the nominations, we
need only remark that when a man is sentenced
to death the Foreign-trade press always tells the
Governor (who, under his instructions, has abso-
lute power to do exactly as he pleases in the
matter) that the criminal must die unless the
Ministry advise a reprieve; but when the
Ministry, legally in office, advise some Protec-
tionist appointments to the Legislative Council,
then the daily press tells the Governor (who io
such a matter has by precedent absolutely no
option) that he is a fool to listen to bis advisers.
There is only one way out of the diffioulty : the
powers of the Governor must now be delegated to
the shoddy press.
Why, oh why, was Kater lifted
From the darkness, where he drifted
All unknown, and raised to honour,
Side by side with Dick O Connor,
In the Council, free from row ?
Who is Kater, anyhow ?
Did he bid our armies rally,
Like the recent Billy Dallby ?
Did he lend a Premier money,
Like —(No libels here, my sonny.—La B.);
Was he, like John Davies, found
Very useful underground ?
Not at all! his claim to glory
Rests on quite another story.
All obscure he might have tarried,
But he managed to get married—
And (to cut the matter shorter)
Married William Forster's daughter.
So when Henry Edward Kater
Goes to answer his Creator,
Will the angel at the wicket
Say, on reading Kater’s ticket —
“ Enter ! for you’re no impostor,
Son-in-law of Billy Forster ?”
J.W.
The Referee
Carbine, the horse that—at time of writing
—seems likely to start a very hot favourite for the
Newmarket Handicap, has been working with
neck-sweaters on. Nevertheless his trainer thinks
Saturday’s race is as good as won. Several other
trainers hold the same opinion about their horses,
but in a milder degree.
a
tee
vfe oJ r
THE PSALMIST OF PADDINGTON.
The Y.R.C gives £10,060, “added
money,” to the four days’ meeting which com-
mences at Flemington, on Saturday.
• • 0
One of the few outsiders which is likely to
accomplish a Newmarket Handicap surprise is
Ernani, an own brother in blood to the defunct
Silvermine.
• * *
A conference of clergymen at Dunedin
(N.Z) has condemned glove-fighting. It is rather
soft.
• • •
Two lay professors in a Sydney college,
under ecclesiastical control, were lately dis-
missed because they were given to betti ag, and it
was feared they would contaminate the pupils
under their care.
* • *
Dear Bulletin, —I am surprised at your
stating, in the “Referee” this week, that Slavin can
beat Peter Jackson Slavin would have no more
show with Jackson than Burke had with Slavin
(or Sandall with Seale? —Ed. B ) Jackson may
be fine in the loin, but saying he has no leg is
nonsense; and I wouldn’t mind laying a trifle
that Jackson actually measures more round the
calf than Slavin ; moreover, these knotted muscles
we read so much about do a man more harm than
good, as under extreme exertion they ate likely to
cramp. The men who used to fight in the old
days—Sayers, Mace, and others —had anything
but abnormal leg-development ;—in fact, “ Dutch
Sam,” about the best man at his weight the world
ever saw, had regular spindle-shanks. I have for
years taken an interest in the *‘ Referee ” column of
The Bulletin, but it is surely time to change its
beading when your paper upholds the opinion
that Slavin could beat a fighter of Jackson’s
calibre. —W. S. T.
* *
N.Z. Cyclists’ Union intend holding an
intercolonial gathering at Christchurch next
Christmas. £3OO worth of prizes.
* * *
Said the old, old colonist : “ Saarle should
go and row at home.” Retorted his young grand*
son (well-informed on these matters): “ Ain’t
Searle at home now ? " The disloyalty cf the
rising generation is absolutely dreadful.
• * *
Qaoth the S.F. News-Lettek Na-
tional pride makes us hope that Teemer will wrest
the championship from Searle and retain it if
Beach and Kemp challenge him, but we are
harassed with doubts about Teemer’s action. If
there is a chance for some extra coin to roll iato
Teemer’s pocket, America will have to be satisfied
without having the champion oarsman of the
world until O’Connor and Gaudaur are in the
colonies.”
• • •
As Teemer shows no sign of coming to
Australia, Hanlan will likely lose the £lOO he put
up to bind the match between Searle and the
former.
* * •
“ Pendragon,” of the Referee, referring
to the Jackson-M’Auliffe fight, remarks that when
he saw Jackson in Sydney, “that pleasant and
truly sporting city,” he was not particularly struck
with him as a real live champion.
• • *
The Australian Natives’ Association has
its uses. The Prahran (Melb.) Branch recently
voted a priza for kicking the football at some
charity sports, and the flower of_young Australian
chivalry has gone into training for this national
event.
’Tis bad to bet
On horses, yet
It saves a lot of trouble,
When any dunce
Gets rich, at once,
By pulling off a double ;
Perchance you may
Have struck a way
To better your condition,
By laying out
Some brass about
Lochiel and Tradition.
Another Lochiel’s Warning.
(A. MIXED PARODY)
The gallant) Lochiel has come o'er to the West,
Of the Newmarket horses his breed is the best;
And, save his good owner, he master has none—
He’ll romp in, unharmed by the spurs, all alone;
For that six-furlong flutter he’ll certainly “ spiel,”
So you’d best have a bit on the gallant Lochiel.
There’ll be tumult and din on the Flemington
course,
Each punter will fancy a separate horse;
A lot of the nags won’t be trying—not much,
And some of the rest will be stiff as a crutch ;
But, trained to the minute and backed for a deal,
Not one will run straighter than gallant Lochiel.
The horses are out, they are cantering by,
And the girls in the Stand heave a beautiful sigh
As they gaze on Sedition, and Carbine, and Peer—
On Cranbrook, who won in a canter last year—
And whisper, “ How very much better we'd feel
If our gloves had been put on the gallant Lochiel!”
They are off 1 They are off I Lady Betty in front,
A dozen already are out of the hunt;
But striding along in a bright coloured line
Are Plutarch, big Cranbrook, and vaunted Carbine,
Then a horse that needs neither the whip nor the
steel
(Of course this refers to the gallant Lochiel),
The road has been crossed, they are well within
sight;
A great cry is raised for the brave “ blue and
white,”
The “magpie” of Carbine shoots clean to the
fore—
Ten thousand poor punters unite in a roar,
Having backed Donald Wallace, for woe or for
weal,
When down from the clouds drops the gallant
Lochiel.
The hope of New Zealand is making his run—
Behold ! in an instant the battle is won ;
One shake of the reins and one word in his ear,
And he flies past the post like a terrified deer ;
The losers try vainly their grief to conceal,
When up goes the number of gallant Lochiel.
There is groaning ’mong folks of the D. Wallace
clan,
Adherents of White have been done to a man ;
The son of Prince Charlie (that fleetest of sires)
Has galloped on Gannon’s most cherished desires;
And the street corner prophets, all down at the
heel,
Chuck ghastly expressions at gallant Lochiel.
O I punters, beware of the Newmarket day,
When Lochiel shall meet ’em in racing array I
’Tie the soda-and-gin gives us mystical lore,
And coming events cast their shadows before.
So, whether you borrow, or beg it, or steal,
You’d best have a bit on the gallant Lochiel.
23rd Feb.


Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whits
vmsT Roi.t.ib Fi.eua. It Is the greatest euooese of the
Eastway Beothkes, 411 Geobgk-stbfet, Syd-
ney. —Ladies Wire Dress-Stands, for Draping
D/esses on. These Stands save time, trouble, and
money. Wire Flower-Stands, for holding pots in
halls, verandahs, gardens, &c. They are light and
strong, painted any colour. Fish, Fish.—Why be
without fish when you can always have plenty by
having one of our traps, Just received : A splendid
lot of Canary Cages.
Stobk Cattle for Sale.—looo male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
Sundry Shows.
Thkatbi Royal.—“ Captain Swift” p. 14.
Hbb Majesty’s.—" The Vendetta ”
Obxtheion.—“ Forbidden Fruit” „
After an unnaturally dragged-out combat
with the forces of Nature “Youth” closed its
earthly career at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) on
Friday last to make way for “ The Vendetta,”
which drama rose on the horizon with moderate
ecldi. In extracting the “ Vendetta ” out of the
popular novel, “Mr. Barnes of New York,” the
dramatist has thoughtfully left some features in
which explain where the drama came from, and
he has also inserted one or two features of his own
which tend to make criticism gallop on his pros-
trate form. A certain vast Dutch American with
great sea boots —a stage Yankee of a violent type
in attire which suggests R. Van Winkle dressed
to go out on the raging main, and who is barely
hinted at in the original story—clumps ponderously
through the piece from end to end and shakes
Birnes cordially with a leg of-mutton fist at in-
tervals. He also says 27 times that “ there ain’t
no sayin’ what gals will do,” which deep observa-
tion grows wearisome after the 18th repetition ;
and in addition he has a riotous Latin joke
which he lets loose on 12 different occasions.
Beyond this his great mission is to remind Barnes
of the time when they tore the rude Indian to pieces
in Kanzas, and trod upon Spotted Tail and
Sitting Dog and Eagle-roosting-on-arock-with-his-
tail-hanging-over, and suspended the animation of
these warlike men with a brick ; and thus he helps
to raise a suspicion that Barnes is by nature a
pirate who loves to gnash bis teeth in the wilder-
ness, and who rises up early that he may grasp
the cumbersome bear by the tail. Yet Barnes
himself is obviously a calm and impassive son of
civilisation—an individual who is ready for any
emergency when the wild Indian begins to take
scalps in Broadway, New York, or the raging buf-
falo stampedes down Wall-street with stock-jobbers
and millionaire railway kings entangled in his
horns, but who doesn’t thirst to be the cow-boy
and scalp hunter of the cheap weekly awful; and
consequently the comic Yankee’s disjointed hints
of how they tore ovor the prairies together with
axes in their hands and wholesale assassination in
their souls sounds woefully incongruous. Further,
there is a wild improbability about the conduct of
Danella and three hired Thugs in hard hats, when
they attempt to assassinate Barnes in a railway
refreshment room as he sits with his own lawful
vittles in front of him and the funny Datch-
American’s culveria protruding through the win-
dow ; and when Barnes wants to hire a vessel to
bear him to Ajaccio that he may dig a deep pit
under Danella and let that treacherous man down
suddaily through the earth’s allaual crust, it
doesn’t seem any more probable that the captain
and his mate Bi 1, of the ‘ Crazy Jane,” should
be found shivering their timbers and hitching
their pants in the dtting room of a s; lendid hotel
than that a hog should necessarily hang out under
the bed of a fever patient in an hospital. A few
little discrepancies of this kind are the chief draw-
backs to the “Vendetta.”
« tr t
Mr. H. C. Sidney, as Barnes, hauls the
“ Vendetta ” cut every time it falls into the ditch,
and lorg before the end of the first act he was
established as a reigning favourite. He repre-
sents the American as a calm, impassive man of
the world, vn;h no obtrmive twang, no stagey
tendencies, and a pleasant affability which is
equal to every emergency, and probably the Aus-
tralian theatrical world might have been turned
upside down, and shaken violently, without an actor
much better fitted for the p »rt falling out on the floor.
Beside him, Mr. Kignold’s Danella looms up with
the dire solemnity of a third-rate funeral in his
eye, and casts a cold shade over the earth. Mr.
Rignold plays his part with hair that is unnatu-
rally black in spots, and pure white in other
places, as if old age had been fired at him out of a
gun tbat scattered disgracefully ; and for four
long hours he never once gives vent to a word or
gesture that is not suggestive of internal misery.
Mr. Jewett plays ably, as is his wont, in the char-
acter of Gerald Anstruther ; Miss Emily Eitzroy
is an example of noble, passionate womanhood as
Marina, and Miss Watts-Phillips is charming, in a
smaller tori of way, in the capacity of Enid An-
struther. Forty-two other deserving persons and
a ton of fine scenery are held over for future ob-
servation.
** * *
Certain circumstances connected with
"Captain Swift,” appear to have resolved the
management to give it best after a fortnight’s run,
and Mr. Warner appears next Saturday in a new
character, as Thomas Robinson in Charles Reade’s
“Never Too Late to Mend." Messrs. Brough
and Boucicault have also seen the error of their
ways, and the evergreen “Betsy” will take the
(place of the present condemned vegetable on the
■same even'ng,
AL AL
'rr 'Jv- 'Tv-
The name’.esp, impalpable curse which
*hangs wRh the dead weight of a gorged boa-
■constiictcr ever Sydney Opera House, has con-
fpued to make “Faust” less of a success than it
Cejfrves, yet it may be truthfully put on record
'that that famous opera was seldom better per-
formed in Australia than by the associated Italians
of whose company Madame Lablache is the par-
ticular star. Everybody, frem the prima-donna
flown to the gentleman who seizes your ticket as
jou enter, worked together as one stranded
■foreigner, and as a result the tout ensemble— that
flear old word which has helped the Herald so
■often over the stony paths of criticism—was of a
Mgh order. Signor Pimazzani and Miss Flora
Graupner both gathered a large harvest of laurels,
an unsatisfying vegetable whicn, for all practical
Purposes of nutriment, is much inferior to plain
oats. Oa Wednesday Madame Lablache took a
benefit—may she live to have several hundred of
them-—in “Carmen,” ard the favourite “Un
Ballo in Maschera ”is now raging. Favourable
uotices, however, are a feeble substitute for cash,
and this latter essential is so desperately scarce
'flat one of the ladies of the company is now en-
£®(?efl in collecting subscriptions to enable
them to tide over a great financial crisis.
Without prompt aid some eight or ten Italians
w fll shortly have the key of the street, and con-
sequently any mi sguided person who contemplates
sending £5 to the shirtless heathen is hereby in-
v‘ted to send it round to the Opera House instead.
*# ♦ *
Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner, In undergoing
“he usual “ interview ” in London, constantly re-
ferred to her native Australia as “down there.”
°wn where, we want to know ? Also, how far
down ?
** * *
Colonel Ike Austin, the American marka-
b'an, is a j, p rege nt shooting potatoes out of his
wi fe's mouth and driving tacks into a board with
bullets, at Ooogee Aquarium. Any drinking
gentleman who wants the pimples shot off his
countenance and his hair cut with ammunition at
50 yards range, will please apply to the Colonel at
onc°.
** * *
last Saturday afternoon two probable
suicides —Mr. J. Boss Browne and Mr. Victor
Percy—flew in the face of Providence down the
toboggan slide at Coogee Aquarium, and the fact
that they are still alive is the nearest resemblance
to Providence that we know of. Mr. Ross started
for the gates of eternity on skates, while Mr.
Percy lighted cut for the Elysian fields on top of
a bicycle, and the speed was officially reported to
be 102 miles an hour. The result proved better
for the iron steed than for the human meat loco-
motive on wheels—the former descending twice
without accident, while the skater fell in a heap
on each occasion. Considerable enthusiasm was
evoked, and the management at Coogee are now
endeavouring to build up some new attraction to
keep public interest alive. A tasteful and elegant
race between a cab and a heavily laden omnibus
down the outside of the Post Office tower would,
perhaps, meet the emergency as well as anything,
unless a handicap could be arranged between a
superannuated N S.W. Civil servant with a son in
Parliament, and a newly-married statesman who is
going to live till he is 120.
** * *
The Gaylord-Sllbon Company—which In-
cludes several of the most astounding works of
Nature that ever visited these parts at one time,
or at any time —filled Melbourne Opera House
with a large hoarse yell of satisfaction last Satur-
day night. They came without any preliminary
puffing from a daily press which records every
itching of Charlie Warner’s nose and hangs on to
the triumvirate’s coat tails in abject submission;
but the story of their immensity had, apparently,
been wafted down from Sydney on a hot wind.
Anyhow, the elegantly upholstered Mr. Joseph
M‘Mahon was placing his jewelled veto upon the
further sale of tickets soon after opening time,
and was subsequently visited by a minion of the
law, who commanded him to reduce the assembled
multitude by moral persuasion or take the conse-
quences. And as the superfluous masses announced
a fixed determination to see everybody darned
first there is reason to believe that the conse-
quences have been taken ere this. The strength,
physical and artistic, of the Silbon organisation
has already been explained in The Bulletin.
Most of its members perform gymnastic feats that
are utterly astounding to the average man, who
lives all his life without ever attempting to do
anything of the hind, and supposes he would die
if he did attempt. This reminds us that gym-
nasts are better off than journalists in the matter
of competition. The accessible pen and the avail-
able ink-bottle put literary distinction within the
reach of that vast proportion of mankind which
never met with a trapeze ia any domestic circle,
and never handled one of those hats which
the Dales fling into space and catch upon
their heads with such unerring accuracy.
The tight rope performer may spend two-
pence in a stationer’s shop and throw off an
immortal epic poem straight away, because he
has been taught to write at school, ard the poem
just comes out cf his head jf it was there. But
Milton enjoyed no every day facilities for walking
on the tisrht-rope, or hanging on to a stick by one
toe, and Shakespeare couldn't do wonders on the
horizontal bar, because he didn’t know there was
such a thing, There is much food for reflection in
the above, tut it doesn’t alter the fact that the
Silica’s show ia the poetry of motion and a
splendid success. They will crowd the Opera
House for three weeks.
** * *
Mias Nellie Stewart was as ill as she ap-
peared to be on the opening night of “Pepita,”
and this sweet little thoroughbred fairly broke
down last week. The vacuum caused by Nellie’s
enforced retirement is being partially filled up by
Miss May Pollard, an unobtrusive youug lady,
who shows much intelligence, and looks best in
skirts. Miss Pollard’s voice is sweet and low,
with a tendency to seem as though it was gently
stealing through a blanket, but ’cis a sympathetic
organ, nevertheless, and not so reminiscent of
Essie Jenyns as on some previous occasions.
‘ Pepita ” is exceeding the management’s expecta-
tions, and adding one more leaf to Elton's laurel
crown, despite the fact that his exclamation of
“Modg Dco-do !” rounds distinctly irreligious.
»• * •
Other Melbourne shows roll placidly along
the avenue of time. “Sweet Lavender” keeps
the Bijou nicely filled, although Miss Gibson’s
frock is a theme of general discontent, and an
outrage upon the ashes of a defunct Kalizoic
Society. But this item of wearing appnrol shall
henceforth be treated with the silent contempt it
deserves. Turning to the brighter subject! of Mits
Lilian Gillmore, it is pleasant to ree ord that the
prayers of this congregation ware answered and
the typhoid fever duly left her last week. All
continuing well she should now be at the abnormal
appetite stage of recovery, when the patient
consumes a chicken in two bites, and then ex-
presses a strange deeire to devour the nurse. In
all cases of typluid very flump nurses are to be
deprecated.
*# * *
Mr, Frank Lincoln, a humourist who will
speak for himself, appears at Melbourne Athe-
rueum on Saturday.
** * *
Mr. G. O. Mlln, the Shakespearian revi-
valist, is grandson of a celebrated cld-time jour-
nalist, one Joseph Wilson. Wilson wrote the
Times leader for thirty weary years, and was a
greater power in the land than any other leader-
writer that will ever be born.
** * *
There ia no change In the Royal panto-
mime, except in regard to Miss Sophie Harris’s
blue tights which have been replaced by another
pair of a soft and creamy hue. The blue ones now
appear upon a different structure but to rather
less advantage than of yore. On Friday Mr. John
Gourlay takes the benefit that such an unflagging
worker deserves. As a clown he is an object! for ‘
sympathy, and in the opening he is an actually
funny exponent of ancient pantomime tradition.
“ Marvellous Melbourne ” is advertised to be
shortly withdrawn from the Alexandra in the
noontide of its joy, or something like that, because
Miss May Holt has got a contract to produce her
own play, “ Every Man For Himself.” This
drama is expected to throw light upon the reason
why every girl wishes to be for somebody else.
The Victoria Hall Is in the throes of Muldoon’s
Picnic, and the Coghills are committing an act of
desrcration at Si. George’s Hall by burlesquing
“ Marvellous Melbourne ” aforesaid. Those men
can have no respect for the sublime worth
mentioning.
## # *
The Adelaide Royal Is open once more,
and the Majeronis are troubling the hearts and
pcckets of an unhappy populace, after the fashion
of the angels who hovered over Siloam. The means
used for this interesting proceeding is “The Foun-
dry Master”—in which drama Signor and Signora
Majerqni do a lot of excellent work. They are
pathetically in earnest, and come out w’th good
results. The company ably assists, and among
other things of joy Miss Maggie Knight has been
lent for a fleeting season to the denizens of the
city of groans and desolation, to shed a light upon
the track of their pilgrimage. Business is thriving,
as a natural consequence. “Fedora” comes
next. George Gordon has painted a new acl-drop
for the theatre, and it is thought a lot of.
The Melbourne commissioners for the
Pans Exhibition have applied for and obtained
the loan of 150 of the original black and white
drawings belonging to the Picturesque Atlas of
Australasia to be displayed at the approaching
French show.
According to Melbourne Herald “ two
electric lights will be employed in connec-
tion with the Eiffel Tower in the forthcoming
Paris Exhibition. They will convey the public
from the second to the third floor of the tower.”
Convey— Great Scott! They ought to be em-
ployed in conveying the Herald’s literary dark-
ness to the dust-heap.
Herr Zoller, of the Cologne Gazette,
was at Cooktown at Christmas en route from
German New Guinea to Zanzibar. He has just
completed an exploring expedition that got 140
miles into the Dark Island, and found nothing
but mountains and inhospitable niggers. He
states that the diggers and planters will be alike
welcomed by the Government there. If so, how
about Samoa ?
Sir Thomas Esmond and John Daasy,
M.P., two of the Irish delegates, have reached
Cape Colony, whence they will start shortly for
Australia. John Dillon will leave Ireland on the
Ist March and come hither direct. Deasy is the
son of a farmer in the 00. Cork. He was educa-
ted at Blackrock College, where he had a dis-
tinguished career. He is about 31 years of age,
good-looking, and unmarried.
As a sample of how the ‘ 1 allotment vote 1
fores every time in New South Wales, we find
that on the electoral rolls to-day the name of
Frarcis Ab : gail appears for West Sydney,
Newtown, the Glebe, Canterbury, and St.
Leotards. Claude J. Abigail has a vote
for St. Leotards, Canterbury, the Glebe, South
Sydney, and West Sydney; but poor James
Abigail can only vote in West Sydney, Newtown,
the Glebe, and Canterbury. Thus this precious
Abigailian trio are as good at the ballot box as
sixteen working-men who do not own their little
bits of “proputty.”
A Japant se earthquake la an animal with
an eye to business, and when it is through with
its work it is better to draw the sad-coloured floor-
cloth of oblivion over as much of the event as it
will cover, and say nothing about it. The last
convulsion which broke loose in the land of the
rising sun split a town in two, and the earth
opened and swallowed one-half of it. Then the
earth opened in another place, and swallowed the
other half, and, j ust as the few people who were
left were not feeling well, a mountain rolled over
upon them, and their feelings didn’t trouble them
any more. One solitary individual remained, but
while he was in the act of remaining, a tree fell on
him, and a favourable site for a growing township
was lef 0 empty and desolate.
George Lansell, the Sandhurst quartz-
reefer-millionaire, has invested over £lOO,OOO in
mining properties since his return from England,
only a few months since. The plucky and lucky
veteran is now engaged in the national work of
prospecting in his 180 nflne (Bendigo) for gold at
different levels, from 2000 to 2100 feet. Success
on his part will revive the golden glory of the
world famed Bendigo and, indeed, be an incentive
to energy and enterprise throughout Australian
mining centres, in nearly all of which Lansell
holds largeinterests. Notwithstanding his immense
wealth, Lansell is not a luxurious idler. He
directs the practical working of his principal
mines, and In spare time devotes his attention to
the invention of mechanical appliances for the safe
and more economical working of mines. He is
now absorbed in the perfection of a big mechanical
ventilation contrivance. The experiments alone
will cost thousands of pounds.
“ How la It that the dally papers are say-
ing nothing more about the notorious Taranganba
affair?’’ Well, it’s just this way. Mr. Theodore
Ranft has served a £5OOO libel writ on one of the
Sydney journals, in respect of imputations against
his character alleged to have been contained in an
article recently published. When once you serve
a man with a libel-writ, his mouth is shut
on that particular subject; nevertheless, The
Bulletin takes upon itself to predict that
when the true story of Taranganba shall
have been told—and it will be told within a
year from now—there will be a cataclysm.
For many months a letter has been in the posses-
sion of the editor of a Sydney paper which casts a
fierce light on the circumstances under which
well-known and thoroughly trustworthy experts
were led to so enthusiastically report on
the prospests of Taranganba. Apropos of
mine-salting, it is now alleged that the intend-
ing purchasers of a certain property offered for
sale in Queensland the other day, at the last
moment declined to complete, as there were
rumours that gold-bearing ore from a rich mine
adjoining had been surreptitiously conveyed to the
property ; and further, that certain portions of the
ground had been well watered with liquid in which
a tremendous amount of gold was held in solution.
Chlorination may be used for a whole lot of
things.
Those “Letters” of ParneM,
Which connected him with crimes,
Have proved to be a “sell ”
For the wooden-headed Times ;
O ! isn’t there a croak
In the royal house of Guelph !
They were purchased from a bloke
Who had written them himself—
To!-de-rol.
The Great Theatrical Case
The District Court has bsen the leading
show in Sydney lately. A little while back there
was a great Chinese case, wherein some 97 Chows
sued the Chinese Doctor On Lee for wages, under
some agreement which no one could hope to under-
stand. The Chows jabbered and lied and exhaled
evil odours of opium and foulness generally ; the
browbeat the interpreter, and the inter-
preter insulted the witness; the bland On Lee
flashed the full glare of his priceless diamond ring
into Judge Fitzhardinge’s eye and nearly blinded
him; finally the Judge gave all 97 decisions id
favour of On Lee instead of committing the whole
pockmarked crowd to gaol for “contempt” in
coming to the country at all, as he, being a good
white man, should have done. This drew good
houses, but on Monday and Tuesday of last week
a dense crowd rolled up to hear the Great
Tneatiioal Case.
- • •
An author wrote a play for Carrie Swain
to act, and submitted it to Miss Swain’s manager.
The piece was not accepted, and the author sued
for £2OO, alleging that the fair Carrie had used his
piece under another name. There was a large and
brilliant assemblage—actors, authors, lawyers,
&c., &c. The keen, hard faces of the land-sharks
could be easily picked out from the long-nosed,
dreamy literary men, and the self-conscious con-
ceited-looking actors. An actor is always well
dressed, and a literary man is always badly
dressed; the latter studies and contemplates other
people, but the actor contemplates nobody but
himself.
• * .
The fun began with the appearance of the
plaintiff, the author of the rejected piece—a long,
nervous personage, with tnin, restless hands,
“What are you ?’asked the barrister. “lam a
playwright.” “How long have you been at that
occupation?'’ “Only quite recently.” “What
did you do for a living before that ? ’ “I managed
a lemonade factory.” “Ah ! then I suppose your
productions are sparkling, and never likely to fall
flat ? ’ (Gloom on every one’s countenance,) The
witness stood down, and a haggard individual ap-
peared in the witness-box. “ What are you ?” “I
was an actor.” “You mean a supernumerary,
don’t you?’ “I acted small parts; therefore 1
was an actor.” “You got half-a-crown a night,
didn’t yon?”—“Yes.” Sensation in Court. One
• man hurriedly figured it out, and said audibly—
“ Fifteen bob a week, and calls himself an actor !
Dear Lord !”
• * •
This evidence disposed of, the counsel for
the defence beckoned the crier over, and said, with
much pomp, “ Call Mr. Dion Boucicault.” “ Mr.
Who?’said the crier. “Seven to four he can’t
pronounce it,” ejaculated a sporting lawyer at the
table. “Bou-ci cault,” said the barrister, slowly.
Then the crier’s face brightened, and he marched
confidently to the door. “Buzzacott! Buzza-
cott!” ha yelled. “Come in, Buzzacott, and give
yer evidence.” Mr. “Buzzacott” came in; a
little, very little man, very, very dark. This is
the scion of the great Dion —to drop into poetry.
“You are a theatrical manager.” “I am.”
‘ 1 Have you read the play that this gentleman has
written for Miss Swain to act in?” “I have.”
“Do you consider it suitable to her style of
acting?” “I consider it eminently unsuitable to
any style of acting whatever.” This evidence,
given in a clear, well articulated manner, was
soon over, and then came the sensation, the star of
the piece.
* * •
“Call Mr. Yircent.” And Mr. Vincent,
stage-manager, Sydney Theatre Royal, made his
entrance, kissed the book with easy familiarity,
bowed slightly to the audience, sported his shirt-
caffs, and buckled to the fray. “You are a
theatrical manager?’ “Yes.” “ Have you read
the play this gentleman wrote for Miss Swain ?”
“Yes.” “Do you think it a presentable play as
it now stands ?” “I should hesitate to advise any
theatrical manager, or even speculator, to produce
such a play.” “Why?” “ Well, to begin with-
in the first act the heroine doesn't appear at all—
that wouldn’t do, you know. Then, also in the
first act, the stage is divided into two scenes, an
exterior and an interior ; and the interior space is
filled with a bar and a bed, and the room left avail-
able for the eight performers on the stage is ex-
actly six square feet; and these eight performers
have to fight a bloodthirsty battle with bowie-
knives in that six feet. The audience wouldn’t
stand it, you know—it would be too gory; no one
would have a chance to survive, or make a dying
speech, or anything : besides, where is Miss Swain
going to have a chance to get in any of her dan-
cing when the floor is cumbered up with dead
men—it wouldn’t do, indeed. Then again, the
villain of the piece is made to fay, “I see my
confederate approaching; I must clear the way
for him,” and a l the while there are two thick
walls between hinuelf and his confederate, and the
way is already cleared because every one is dead.
Now, that sort of thing wouldn’t go down, you
know. Then again, Miss Swain is made to come
on, wheeling her old, paralysed guardian in a per-
ambulator in the snow, and she is made to leave
the poor old gentleman out there in the snow,
with the ice-water running down the back of his
neck, while she gees flirting with some loafer in
the bar ; and not only that, but the old man is
suddenly made to revive, although he has been
paralysed for years, and he climbs in through the
roof of the shanty as spry as a kitten. That
wouldn’t do, you know. Then a woman comes in
who lost her child 1G years back, and she says that
the loss of her child has at length done its fatal
work, and that she feels she has but a short while
to live. That woqld be an insult to a Sydney
audience—fancy the loss of her child taking 1G years
to get in its fatal work ! It wouldn’t do at all,
you know. Then again, in one place Miss Swain
rushes out of the hotel, locks the door on the out-
side, and climbs back through the roof because
the door is locked, although the people away in the
gallery could see the key sticking in the door—
and that wouldn’t do either, you know.” Mr.
Vincent’s evidence frequently “ brought down the
house,” and when it was over he looked round,
expecting to be called before the curtain, but there
wasn’t any curtain, so he subsided into a seat and
beamed blandly on the audience. Miss Carrie
Swain gave her evidence, and said that she would
not use the plaintiff’s play on any account, as it
was no good; also, she was candid enough to admit
that she “was not much of an actress, bub she
pleased the public by her singing and dancing,”
She was silent about the tank. Mr. Gardiner, her
manager, described as “the husband of a star,”
said that the play was no good. There were only
two female characters, and one of these died be-
fore the curtain went up. “ Ycu must have the
white muslin heroine to pleasa the public,” said
this gentleman, and he ought to know, you know.
The performance concluded by Judge Fitz-
hardinge reserving his decision, and the crowd
swept out into the garish daylight. The decision
arrived later on, and when it came the unhappy
dramatist was slowly but surely knocked kite-high.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Is more Wholesomt thaa
BRANDY or WHISKY,
Aid la •
Purs Ratrashlng Bavaraga.
B« Qaiefol roa Wom'r.
Exhibition Visitors ought to cany handkerchiefs because
they can get those useful articled perfumed gratis with
t'rab Apple Blossom at the Crown Pirfumrrt Co.’s
Stands In the Melbewrat BiklMtlts. All Melbourne
la •• lb la Sea at
Store Cattle foe Salk. — 1000 male and 2000
mixed. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
Uniform a specialty ; quality, fit and comfort. Modi-
man. 11 My Tailor.” 154 King street, Newtown.
Do you go fishing? East way Brothers, 411
George street, Sydney, have a splendid collec-
tion of all kinds of Tackle for hand, rod, or net
fishing. We have tackle suitable for all (each and
every one) fishing grounds in Australia.— EastwaV
Brothers, 411 George street, Sydney.
The Brickbat.
[SLUNG BY “TITUS SALT.”]
The Church militant, which used bo find
its representatives in bishops clad in mail dashing
out brains on the crimson battle-field, is not yet
dead. The bishops, it is true, are militant no
longer; they have grown short and fab and are
aWicbed in the wind through the consumption of
great masses of food; but the Church itself
stretches out its huge red paw through the inter-
vening ages, and its voice is still raised on the
dust heap of the dead centuries and amid the
broken pillars of the fallen tabernacle. The
fighting Church is represented now-a-days by the
gritty dervish of the desert, and the red shirted
Salvation man who sounds hi? tocsia in the slums
accompanied by Happy Sal and Converted Jane
and Hallelujah Mairy Hann; and in these two
men at least) there is no falling-away from the
ways of their warlike ances f o,'S. Some little
lime ago the heathen were raging with unwonted
inten?ily at Townsville (Q), and the Salvation
authorities, after considering the way in which
the hydra head of sin was uplifted in these parts,
chose a lean, gaunt man with consp’cuou? bones
and set him apart for a special mission. He was
a silent person with arms tha 1 ) whirled about like
windmills, and he had the special gift of getting
into a town secretly, without letting anyone know
that he was there He was of an even temper
also, and he didn’t flare up as hrgbt have
been expected when, the very first night of
his ministrations, someone opened the ser-
vice with half-a-dozen dead cats which filled
the premises with the subtle perfume of the
skunk and the bottomless pit—he merely stopped
the hymn for half a minute while he shovelled out
the cats, and then went on without evincing any
emotion Bub the next day, just as the man who
threw the cats was walking along abash track
arid smiling silently over bis little joke, a long,
bony object fell upon him and dragged him down,
and filled his ir.outa with
dust bo keep him from
hbllpring, and then tied
him up with a rope and
c'arriedhim to an adjacent
Crater hole, lb was the
Salvationist, and the
spirit cf prophecy was
upon him. There had
been no rain for a month,
and the water hole con-
tained ten feet of black
slime and ben inches of
black slimy water, and a
sediment of horses’ skulls,
cows’ head?, Acts of Par-
liament, broken bottles,
worms, old clothes, scare-
crows, broken mats,
soaked boots, and baleful
refuse innumerable. Also
there was a smell which
went up bo the canopy of
heaven and called aloud
for vengeance, bub the
humourist of the night
before did not perceive it,
for his head was full of
the dust that the Salva-
tion officer had put into
it bo keep him quiet. The
two men regarded each
other for a moment upoa
the shore of this unwhole-
some hollow spot, and
then the soldier quietly
remarked “Hallelujah !”
and cropped his enemy
in. The mud opened
with a sullen sound
and swallowed him up,
and he thought he was
going to remain there, but
presently the preacher
gave a great whoop and
dragged him out, a
shapeless image of clay,
and deposited him on
the bank to breathe.
The ensuing five minutes
wire devoted to Clnis-
tian admonition and
reproach, and the ex-
pression of a hope that
the erring one might yet
repent, and then the
bearer of good tidings he a ved him in again and
flapped him up and down in the shallow parts of
the pond for a considerable time, and stirred up
the mud with him, and used him to rouse the
clammy frog with and alarm the tittlebat in his
rheumatic bower, and scared the thoughtful, reflec-
tive eel with his extremities; and he also threw his
hat and his umbrella in after him, and filled his
pockets with slush and tadpoles and creeping
things without legs. When he came out for the
s cond time he was cursing profusely, and the
Salvationist felt called upon to offer up a prayer
for this “ pore, miserable werm ” —indicating with
his foot the pillar of mud that was dancing at the
end of the rope—and he urged that he might not
be cub ctf in his tins after the manner of the
heathen —tut the captive rushed at him and tried
to kick him, and the Salvationist threw him back
into the mud-hole and towed him round
a little more. He jumped him about for
a while in the cemre of the pool and
shook up the bloated reptiles from their
respective lairs ; and when he was tired of this ex-
ercise he hauled him out, and chased him through
the town into the wilderness beyond. It was just
dusk when the procession scudded through the
outlying parts of Townsville—in front, an object
which ran like the wind, and gave off an odour
like the breath of a boiling-down establishment,
and close behind a long-limoed Salvation captain,
who screamed and threw lumps of dirt at his
flying predecessor, and cheered him on to renewed
frenzy every time he wanted to sit down ; and bo
this day Townsville retains a shapeles? idea that
they were two ghosts escaped from the Bottomless
Land, who visited it that night. But no one al-
templed to stop them, and they sped through the
town and across the adjacent country, till the
horizon hid them, and they were seen in these
parts no more.
Pastor Dowie, the reverend faith healer
who left a large thorgh rather dingy footmark on
the sands of time throughout Australia and New
Zealand, has not prospered much on the other side
of tha raving ocean. The American ha? apparently
grown weary of faith-healing and that once
fashionable spec fality languishes. Dowie’s strong
point lies in flapping the large, moist, clammy
mudhook of faith on the sick and making them
feel better with every flap, bub somehow the sick
appear to gain very little by the operation, and
even the cured patients generally collapse and
order new crutches, and double-up with new
internal pains a few hours after treatment. Once,
when we were younger and more reckless than
we are now, we attended a public healing ex-
hibition, and found ourselves jammed in a
sweltering room with a ease of b.ighLd affec-
tions on ona side and a promising example
of complisabed dementia on the other, while in
front of us was a man with a great part of ore ear
gone, a rheumatism, a person who had never had
any hair, two fits, and a c nvuMon : and behind us
there gathered a wreck with hi? scalp blown off,
an angry r=d boil, ard a St. Yitusdarce. The
healer discoursed for two hours on the divine
efflatus which had been shot into him by super-
natural influenci s, and then he blew for half an-
hour on the sterile cranium of the person who had
never had any hair, while the audience waited in
breathless anticipation, and told each other
tihab they could hear the ringlets growing.
At last, however, the b, a aler blew himself out,
the sufferer went away with a cold ,in his head,
which threatened to lift him rigjit off his bones
every time he sneeqed, and the rest of the patients
were told to call and partake of the supernatural
gift next day The proceedings closed amid aw ful
blasphemies from one of the rheumatisms, who
threatened bo sool a heajthy relative oa to the
THE DELUSIONS OF DEINK.
Defeated Freetrade Candidate for Parliament (gets drunk
from disapointment, and imagines himself elected
and making his maiden speech): “Misher
Shpeaker (hic!) I terawashish washmaksherar-
timesh (a voice—“move on”) Misher Shpeaker,
come outshide an’ shay it!”
(A voice -“I move an adjournment.”)
CARRIED.
healer, and lay
him up for a
month. Pastor
Dowie’s gift was
somewhat similar
to the above, but
the vengeful man-
ner in which he
barked at hi«
patients overawe dl
them a geo I deal.
His final fall was
brought about by
a Yankee church
conference, which
sat to consider
the pastor, and
ended by voting
him to be a small
and inferior vege'
table, and an
objeeb which Jooul 1 be shunned by every
sincere Christian. Tnen people gradually gave
up rushing to him that he might prod
their afflicted parts and slap their diseased
organs, and Dowie grew more and more
irascible and barked savagely at his unap-
preciative audiences. People who employed
lim to blow on the s.les of their feat for
lameness insisted on paying by results, and
often when the pastor had nearly burst his
boiler with a bard day’s work there was nothing
to show for it. For all practical purposes he has
closed up, and the hired scoffer who used to bo
sent roundfroon the hospital to have a wart 1 taken
off his brain by prayer for 2s. Gd. is now liable 1 to
have a dog atari id a f ter him toefore he has time to
state his busines s. When a genuine patient comes
along the chance s are that Dowie, soured by misfor-
tune, sets him do wn at sight as another unbeliever
comes to bitter derisively at hi? sacred gift, and
flies after him wi th a paling with nails in it, and
th's fleshly tendency has wrecked pretty nearly all
that was lift of a ones valuable healing bu tin ess.
For which and other reaions we draw up the
following advertisement and offer bo insert it at a
low rate on receipt of Mr. Dowie’s P. 0.0. :
jpOR SALE, a Supernatural Influence, slightly
frayed at the feet but otherwise in good working
order, together with h jaling loolr, plant, fixtures and
fittings, bottling machine, axj, and valuable dog.
Apply, &c.
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin,—For lack of a local
s nsation the Australian dailies have been trying
to make people excited over a prospective visit of
that blood-stained old savage Te Kooti to the
scene of the Poverty Bay (N Z ) mas-acre. In
this matter the papers are making a mountain o!
a molehill; every old New 7i blander is now
laughing at the innocence shown in booming the
alleged Te Kooti scare. The Maori “scare ” was*
a few years ago, a promising Real industry in
N.Z. When times got bad in the frontier town-
ships an impromptu Chamber of Commerce com-
prising the publican, the butcher, and the baker
would meet in secret conclave to devise a method
of improving business, and the Maori scare was
the inevitable method that commended itself to
their bucolic judgment for the creation of the
needed boom. Some broken down, beer sodden
descendant of a e Duple of thousand chiefs, “ whose
meres had drunk blood in one hundred battles,
whose voices were as the echo of an earthquake,
and who had burnt their enemies’ kaingas until
the reflection made the skies bloody,” &c , &c.,
would be induced for a bottle of liquor to haul
over a fence or pull down a trig, station. Then
the Minister for Native Affairs and the member
for the district would be informed by urgent
telegram that a sanguinary rebellion was
imminent, and that 10,000 Ngatimaniapotos 7
three or four thousand Ngatihauas, to say nothing
of a bellicose sprinkling of Ngatiraams, Ngati-
hakos and Ngatiawas had been dancing round
their gory war-posts and were clamouring in about
(JO dialects for the blood of the pakaha. Then all
would be bustle and confusion. Five hundred
armed constabulary would be sent post-haste bo
the front,, the publican, would start a canteen, up
would go the price of meat, bread would rise to,
famine prices, a new tovnship would be laid out,
and in a week cq two land would rise from prairie
value to 7J5s per foot—and the butcher and the
baker and the publican would
wink slyly at one another
when they met. This game
has been played half-a-dozen
times at least between Tara-
naki and Wanganui, but on
one occasion the whole pro-
gramme was disclosed to the
authorities who subsequently
made ture of the reality cf
danger before they sent along
their cohorts. Why, in 1,881
or 1882 Hon. John J>ryce
had 1200 men in front of the
native village of Parihaka
simply because a half-mad
old Tohunga remarked at a
banquet of dried spark,
“ the' pouatp is cooked !” The
wfyole country vyas, alarmed,
and hundreds pf, thousands
of pounds were wasted in
one of the most futile and
amusing iqditary
that has happened since the
Dpke of Xork “ marched
his army up the hill and
marched it down again.”
Bryces successor in office
was Jphn Rabat ce, whose
able administration of the
Native and Land Depart-
ments of New Zealand baya
won for him a foremost
place amongst colonial
tatesmer. Ballaqoe qorp-
pletety reversed the policy of
his iredecftEcr, srd where
Bryce bad ctnsideted 12CQ
min mccffsiy, to rpaintain
cidir, EaHi nee i the
while di miration by the
aid of ere sclitaiy jrolice-
man. I had thought that the “ Maori scare ”as a
local industry, had quite died cub in Maoriland,
but as “ Oas Ppliceman pallance ” is not in, power
now, ibis just possible that the melancholy farce
will be played over again, I last saw Te Kooti in
1888 at Te Aroha, New Zealand, shortly after
he and other Native outlaws had been amnestied.
He was bh6n prematurely aged i and brpk.en-down,
and evidently domoletely demoralised with driqji.
He had about 70 ragged followers, half of
thAm \tromen and children, and all so emaciated
arid poverty-stricken, that a couple of colonial-
bred frontiersmen could, I am sure, have whipped
the Idt. Putting the finger of scorn to the nose of
derision at the professional “ Native Scarers " of
New Zealand, I subscribe myself, yours truly,
Thn Pxbipi.
■ i
• * *
Judge Williams said, la sentencing a bank
defaulter, at Ballarat, the other day, that “sooner
than have a son of his a bank clerk, he would set
him breaking stones on tin road.” His Honor
evidently considered stone napping outside the
bounds of temptation We smile. Judge Wil-
liam? has prooably never done any diamond-
cracking.
» * •
There Is In Contral Victoria a little town-
ship, composed principally of a State school and
post-office, which—probably to avoid the utter
loneliness of their forest surroundings—have got
huddled under one roof. This township possesses
a maiden, who is making frantic efforts to rise
superior to her bush environment. She is great on
grammar, and never los s an opportunity of cor-
recting any untutored damsel who inadvertantly
mixes the cases of the first personal proroan
singular. The other day Lucinda appeared at the
schoolroom door, and sweetly asked : “ Are there
any letters for I?’ “No,” replied the quick-
witted schoolmiss, “there are no letters for I-
but if you will kindly step into the schoolroom for
a moment, I will show you some ‘ letters ’ that
wbuld be df inestimable value to V." Lucinda’s
fairy form is seen no more in that region. She
never goes to the post office now ; she stays at
home, and sends her sister.
# * »
Editor Bulletin. Sir,—l wish ‘to bfln»
before your novice one of the most uncharitable
acts it has been my mi.fortune to see in Queens-
land. Last Friday a man, name unknown, was
found dead about a mile from this town (Mount
Morgan) on the Rockhampton road. He add a
mate had determined to “hump bluey ” from
Rockhampton to here. They had nearly arrived
whna deceased complained of feeling unwell, and
said he would lie down while bis mate walked
into the township. Same hours after this his
dead body was found (12 a.m.) It was put into a
cart, brought up to the Leichha: db Hot< 1, thrown
into the harness-room, and locked up there all
night. No post-mortem was held, but the Leal
doctor pronounced it a case of heart disease. On
Saturday the body was put into a cc ffin ? (rammed
into a box that was too email), and conveyed to
the cemetery, and although we have five clergy-
men in this town, not one of them was there to
say a word over the poor man's grave. Had the
dead swagman been a “big-bug" I daresay h
couple of sky-pilots would have contrived to be on
the spot mopping their eyes, but he was a man
without money and somehow or other they all had
urgent business at the time of the funeral. Xam
or try to be, a Christian, and it shocks me to know
what one may expect if cue dies in a town where
ore is an utter stranger.—Yours, LH.C.Kdh.
Feb., 1881).
* * m.
An item of news reaches us In a slow sort
of way from the banks of a West Australian
river, about the drowning of a local resident in.
its turbid waters on Christmas day. He was a
good swimmer, but he ate a large piece of Christ-
mas cake before going in, and tuen he sank like a
stone and was seen no more. The ass of a local
paper thinks that he was overtaken by cramp*
but then a local paper seldom has any sense. li.
was the cake that weighed him down. Even the
fabled Nicholas “the Fish” would have gore
under with a huge clod of that leaden nutriment,
stacked among bis vitals. Possibly if the unhappy
deceased had been seen putting out to sea on a ton.
of loose scrap iron with a brick ambmortar sail,
that would also have been described as “ cramp.”'
There is no end to journalistic foolishness when*
once it starts,
• # «
A religiou.3 sect new to (Vfotoir*)
has struck that pensive hamlet of late,, and the
shock has,upset its equilibrium and shaken it off
its perch. The late arrivals have been slumping
the surrounding country, plucking up the holy
Sabbath by the roots and planting it in fresh
places, so that there is a great uncertainty remad
about, and a divertiiy o! opinion as to when the
day of, rest really happens, and how long it lasts
when it does transpire. The chief purpose
or, the new and improved religion appears to
be to give the faithtul as many Sabbaths as they
1 ijke in a week, and as clic-
c i 4 jles are cropping up in the.
Corporation service asid'
amongst Government ap-
Lpj iatments the reformation
leads to duplicity and d iis-
cord. Various pari ies want,
their Sunday in the rtiiddl®
of the week, others cm Tues-
day, and ethers on Saturday,
whilst all agree that the old
Sabbath as an institution ia
a failure and ought to be
shifted to make way for
modem improvements. W®
detect in this sectarian up
lii-ing a fierce protest against
the law that closes pubs,
on the exiiiti.og Sunday. The
people naturally look for »
Sunday on which they can
get drank, and iif they can't
shift the law they’ll shift the
S-urlay.
• • »
The great heart of the
Braid wood ( M S.W,)) Abori-
ginal Kingdom is aching.
‘‘Sally,” the beautiful lubra
and Queen of the defunct
“lying Jimmy Qaero,” is
dead, Sally has been ailing
for some time, but she is said to have died through
old age. The highest medical authority attributes
Her Aboriginal Majesty’s death, however, to an
overdose of alcohol, accelerated by the destroying
influenqa of civilization. The death of Sally
without sufficient notice has caused great anxiety
as to who shall be her successor. Si warriors,
being the total lifting strength of the nation, are
now arguing for the vacant crown with spears and
boomerangs. The dispute will probably end in
fiye deaths, and then the sixth man will seat him-
self on the grass-heap where his fathers used to
reign, and the last monarch of Braidwood will be
seen in the dusk drifting round to back doors in
sea:oh of broken pie. Put not your faith in kings.
* * *
A Gospel-monger recently arrived In Fiji
from the mamma country, and visited a sugar-
estate oa a Sunday for the purpo e of holding
prayer. As he wended his way up the road be-
tween the waving flags of the sugar-canes, in full
view of the “ bungalow,” ho met a little coolie-hoy
industriously picking up sticks. Stopping shert
in holy horror at such sacrilegious conduct, ho
exclaimed: “My little boy, have you forgotten
the commandment which says, ‘R m ember that
thou keep holy the Sabbath day. fcjix days,’” See ,
&o—repeating it at fall length—bat long before
he had quite run it down, the chocolate-coloured
kid was on his knees grasping his feet in Oriental
lashion, and exclaimining, in pitying accent?
(transition): “Sahib, Sahib, don't swear at me
so hard ! lam only a little boy 1


Dry Imperial Ciiampaonr.— Messrs. Moet and Chandon
RY® the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro-
ducers in the world. Their “DRY IMPERIAL 1 ' 1884
vintage is the pure juice of selected grapes from their own
vineyards of 2500 acres in the choicest districts in France.
*he Imperial Crown is in each corner of label, and 1884
branded on cork and label.
That famous old Sydney hostelrie, the
Grand Hotel, Wynyard Square, has changed
hands and is now under the management of Mr.
P. Hust, a name synonymus with a first-class
cuisine , the best of liquors, good attendance, and
every other essential that goes to make a first-
class hotel.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, % Bathurst-stroet, Sydney.
JOHN M‘EWAN & CO. p
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers db Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Ifi.pagS Country Properties, Farms, Gracing
Properties, So., So.
66-page List Melbonrne and Snbnrban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, So.
nialed list mt Butanm fst Bale Biased Bailf,
All Lliks posted Free on ipplleitlos.
Personal Items.
The Princess of Wales rarely gives more
'than 303. for a bonnet.
A 3000 edition of Vogel’s “ Anno Domino
>2OOO ” has already been published.
Phil. Msy writes : “ Ba it ever so cram-
ming, there’s no place like Rome.”
The head of the house of Battenberg,
who recently died, left less than £4OOO.
Phil. Robinson Is on the warpath in Tas-
mania for the Sydney Daily Telegraph.
It would be the comet thing of the miners
»of Victoria to raise a statue to Peter Lalor.
Such was Marshal Bjzsine’s dire extremity
i n bis latter days that he sold his sword for bread.
It has just been held by a leading British
•Judge that a man holds the copyright of his own
face.
The proprietor of the Melbourne Malson
iDortG, Pierre Lioaton, has filed his schedule.
Land-boom.
Peter Lalor is the first Victorian Speaker
'who has passed away. There have been five—
'four are still living.
It is explained that a certain N.S.W. poli-
tician had his hair cub so that it might ba short
when he got married.
Pritchard Morgan, M.P., with his wife and
ffamily are on their way to Queensland where they
iintend residing awhile.
Pat. Perkins, of Queensland, Is going to
settle down in St. Kilda (Melb ) and hopes nob to
toe recked at sea any more.
Lady Dnffy, wife of Sir Charles Gavan
Duffy, has died in Francs, leaving four children.
She was the ex-Vioborian’s third wife.
There Is a Wesleyan minister in N.S.W.
holding a good position, who was at one time a
member of the P.R., and not a bad one, either.
It is rumoured In London that Sir Samnel
Wilson is to be raised to the peerage. The report,
however, is scorned by his brother Billy Big wools.
Admiral Hoskins, once in command of the
Australian station, is to succeed the Duke of
•Edinburgh in command of the Mediterranean
station.
Wake, the Graphic artist who
was slain by a stray ballet at Suakim lately, was
-.a lineal descendant of Hereward the Wake, “the
• last of the Saxons.”
Premier Dibbs, of N.S.W., who was mar-
ried in ’57 to the eldest daughter of the late Mr.
JR M. Robey, is the father of nine daughters and
two tone, all living.
.Peter Lalor rose up In rebellion In 1854
miners’ licenses, and now his cousin Frank
flanlan,Un 1889, “ officially” issues miners’ rights
.and all that sort of thing.
Rev. Walter -Sneyd, of Keele Hall,
, ■Sbstffordshire (Eng J, has died, leaving £235.000.
> Of such, &o. ;\Lay not up. trearures on earth lest
vye be keelhauled in another world!
Sir George Grey visits •Sydney shortly.
He is over 70 years old and has lived in the
(Southern seas since his youth, but so Jar he has
•never seen either-Sydney or Melbourne.
tLord Onslow, the new •N.Z. Governor,
ihae had a difficulty in obtaining an A.DtO., owing
to the recent curtailment by the N.Z. Government
• of the emoluments of that gilded office.
It Is said that the Queen, is much annoyed
*by Salisbury’s indiscreet allusion to the “black
•man.” This makes things square-rhe used to be
annoyed at her preference for a brown man.
Henniker-Heaton 1s accused of having
•circulated in London a report that the real reason
•of the aversion of the Queenslanders to Cold-pie
Blake is that she has two brothers in “trade ” at
(Brisbane.
Sir Henry ‘Parkes offers the lady-readers
of a newlyipublished magazine for women, “ a
mice leather writing-desk with monogram en-
f»ved, for the beat composition on some lines of
ennyson’s.”
The famous novelist, Farjeon, had a
brother on the Australian stage for years. His
theatrical name was “ John Howe.” When the
novelist became famous, the actor regretted the
change of name.
I Mrs. Jay Gould, wife of the New York
millionaire, paid £lOOO for a coffin. It was finished
in November, and in January she died. There is
nothing like using a thing before it gets shabby
and dusty and needs retrimming.
Although the Marquis of Normanby has
held seats in both British Houses of Parliament
he is said to have only made one speech—in the
Lords in IB6o—the occasion being the address in
reply to the Throne at the opening of Parliament.
Bishop Webber, of Queensland, has re-
turned from England after having collected
£lO,OOO with which to carry on the war against
such of the Powers of Darkness as divide with
him the rule of the Australian portion of the
Tropic of Capricorn.
The Bulletin, In its nice regard for small
officialisms, has been in the habit of referring to
the deputy-monarch of Victoria as Governor Loch.
It appears that the Colonial Office addmsf s him
as “ Governor Sir Henry Loch,” and doesn’t re-
cognise alleged Excellence at all. There now !
Daring the course of his recent visit to
Europe, Alderman M'Mahon, of Sydney, called
on his namesake, the French marshal, who,
amongst other things, naively remarked that he
would like to see Australia, as “ he believed there
was some excellent rabbit shooting out there.”
We believe there is— some.
# Lord William Nevlll, formerly attached
to the Loch household of Melbourne, Is about to
marry the wealthy daughter of an ennobled guano-
dealer. After leaving Melbourne, Nevill looked
round him for a business, and having thought
over the ham-and-beef line and other avenues of
commerce he settled on whisky-selling—whole-
sale, you know—in which he has done pretty weil
~-for a lord.
Truth, referring to Sir Charles Gavan
Duffy’g sneers in “ Young Ireland,” and those of
John Mitchell, in his “ Gaol Journal,” at Daniel
G’Oonnell, and contrasting their low opinion of
the “ Liberator ” with the high estimate formed
oy Gladstone, bitterly says:—“The worms which
feed upon the carcase of the nobler animals seldom
take the same view of the creature as is taken by
the scientific naturalist.”
It Is related that just before Black Wed-
nesday the late Peter Lalor was asked to sign an
order for the dismissal of a large number of the
officials in one department. Lalor looked down
the list and saw at once that it had been compiled
more diplomatically than fairly. “ Mr. So-and-so
compiled this list?” asked Lalor. “Yes,” was
the reply. “ Then add his name to it,” ordered
Peter, who then wrote, “ Approved, P.L.”
A Berlin paper says Queen Victoria drinks
champagne from large-sized and frequently-re-
plenished glasses. This Labouohere contradicts,
affirming that she seldom exceeds two glasses of
champagne or claret at dinner, followed by a glass
of good o!d Tokay. “ Labby ” also asserts that it
is a pity the lady doesn’t take a little more to sus-
tain her during her weary pilgrimage, as a large
stock of fine wine is going bad in the royal cellar
for want of a corkscrew.
One of the late O'Gorman Mahon’s friends
once asked him —“ What do you think the most
beautiful spot in Ireland ?” “ Ah, then,” replied
The O’Gorman Mahon, “there’s a spot on the
south-west coast where the cliffs overhang, and ye
can’t get to it except by sea. And it’s that lonely
nobody would ever disturb ye; and the strand
there is a lovely place for gentlemen to walk who
want to be quiet. And it’s the loveliest place on
the earth, it is, in the early morning— with a boat
standing in and out to see fair play .”
Mr. Abraham Hoffnung, of Potts Point,
Sydney, was for many years Consul for the
Hawaiian Islands, and on the occasion when that
noble blacking-bottle monarch, King Kalakaua,
honored Europe with his presence, Mr. He ffoung
trotted him over the continent in such pleasant
style that his Majesty endeavoured to persuade
him to give up all connection with the “white-
trash ” and settle down as Prime Minister in
Honolulu, Mr, Hoffnung declined the honor,
however, and by so doing probably missed heaps
of fun.
Col. North, the Nitrate King, seems to ba
a sort of fairy godmother to the “upper suckles”in
England, just now. He put the Prince of Wales
on to a good thing that panned out £lO,OOO in
three weeks, and Lord Randolph Churchill has
just netted £16,000 by following North’s advice.
The “King,” by the way, has just provided a
dowry of half a million for his only daughter.
He has not attached any condition to it as to the
birth, rank, or fortune of the husband who is to
help her spend it. Tne lady (who a few years
ago was a railway clerk) is to make her un-
fettered choice, and the money is to be forth-
coming, no matter who or what the bridegroom
may be,
Jem Mace, the pugilist, In thanking,
through the London Sporting Life, those who
contributed to his testimonial, makes the follow-
ing startling announcement : -
Although declining with the sere and yellow leal of this
more autumn than winter weather, thanks to an all-wise
Providence and my early careful training, together
with a grateful remembrance of the favour so fully
granted me by my many friends who coitributed as
above, do not be surprised if I once more enter the 2ltt.
(I should prefer 12(6.) before I finish a career which I
trust will bear comparison with others as champion of the
world.
This is the first time we ever heard of “an all -
wise Providence ” being interested in bringing a
pug. “fib” into a 24tb. ring. “Divine Provi-
dence !” Alas I even the British pugillsb is a
hypocrite.
The Prince of Wales, though anything bub
a purist himself, requires the most correct conduct
on the part of his dependents. One of his secre-
taries, who is of the godly, righteous, and sober
order, happened to entertain a friend from the
country, and, in the course c f his duties, to take
him to the Alhambra, By the oddest coincidence
in the woidd the Prince also went to the Alham-
bra, and when he saw him in a box the secretary
in the stalls nearly had a fib, and hurried his
friend from the place. For some weeks he went
in doubt whether or not the Prince had spotted
him, and had at length come to the conclusion he
had not. His delusion was exploded, however,
when, on entering his room one morning, he found
a packet of Melachiino cigarettes as a present from
his royal master, with a significant hint that-
they were capital things to “ smoke at the Alham
bra.”
POLITICAL POINT
Wise is suffering from a Crick in the neck.
Victoria added 55,000 to her population
last year.
London, the capital of Freetrade England,
is relieving 100,000 paupers a week.
When the weather Is hot South Australian
statesmen legislate in their shirt sleeves.
The N.S.W. Foreign trade press shows
strong symptoms of throwing over Parkes.
“ In three weeks I will destroy the Dibbs
Government.” Thus said the Lord—Parkes.
Thirty-eight members of the new N.S.W.
Assembly are entirely new to Parliamentary work.
The N.S.W. Treasurer’s budget will show
a deficiency of more than three and a half million
sterling.
The South Sydney Freetraders want
another general election soon. On a One-Man
One-Vote basis?
The N.S.W. Foreign-trade dallies breathe
not a word about the property-vote v. manhood
suffrage question.
The Protectionists of Western N.S.W.
are about to start in Bathurst a newspaper in the
interests of the party.
A B ritlsh man-of-war was recently des-
patched from Athens to Malta to fetch a bonnet-
box for the Duchess of Edinburgh.
" ON OUR UPPERS.”
SALVATION ARMY BRIGADIER : “‘WAR CRY,’ SIR?”
UNGODLY : “NOT TO-DAY, THANKS.”
S.A.B.: “AH! MY FRIENDS, HOW WILL YOU GET TO HEAVEN IF YOUR
SOULS ARB LOST?”
UNGODLY: “WE WILL WALK IN ON OUR UPPERS!”
There are three Abbotts, three Browns,
two Dangars, two Hutchisons, and only one
Haynes in the new N.S.W. Assembly.
Lome and Louise should be sent to govern
Victoria and not N.S.W. Louise would never run
short of sauerkraut in the Cabbage Garden.
The N.Z. Government Intend establishing
farms on which all able - bodied applicants
for charitable aid will be required to work.
“Ginger” Clarke and “Calico Jimmy”
have gone to America, en celibataire, for a holi-
day. The Bulletin predicts a great time.
The N.Z. Premier predicts that Aus-
tralians will ultimately develope into a race of
Yankees and rejoice under the Stars and Stripes.
Last Saturday’s S.M. Herald publishes a
column and a-half entitled “The Rearing of
Babies.” This, we maliciously presume, is for the
edification of Parkes.
It Is said that the Japanese trip of Sir
Thomas M‘llwraith was the result of pique at a
failure to introduce a land-tax, in which the knight
was in a minority of five.
Seventeen years ago an English Secretary
of State told Vogel that England would never
burn an ounce of gunpowder to retain a colony
that wished to separate.
The President of Melbourne Chamber of
Commerce says that, despite the burst land-boom,
the lecal workman’s position is better and his
savings are greater than ever before.
Admiral Fairfax has recommended the
use of Westport (N.Z.)coal for the Chinese squad-
ron. Thus does the Admiral get level with his
political enemies in N.S. Wales ?
Several days back Melbourne Herald
stated that Parkes’ next appearance will be in the
character of Jonah. On which occasion, we pre-
sume, N.S. Wales will appear as the whale.
Ringnose Wise told the electors of South
Sydney that “ office had no attraction for him.”
He forgot to add the all-important qualification
“ without patent-fees and other snavellings.”
The S. M. HkrAld acknowledges -ihe
receipt of a 10-pound block of ice from a locaj
Ice 00. The company should send the Sydney
D.T. 20 pounds to cool their political barometer.
“No one has ever denied that there la
such a power as the Catholic vote in existence.'’
But Sydney D.T. says nothing of the “Yellow
Doggie, ” as distinguished from the purely Foreign-
tirade vote.
Lord Brougham once said he “would not
allow America to make a hobnail for England.”
And now American nails are used all over the
world. Probably Brougham was coffined up with
Yankee tacks.
Isn’t the New South Wales Minister of
Education rather letting ex-Premier Parkes “jump
his claim,” by permitting the latter to go round
the country opening public schools just as though
he were in office ?
Toohey’s beer and Toohey’s religion were
great bugbears to the Foreign-traders during the
contest for South Sydney. As a matter of fact, a
very large number of Mr. Toohey’s employes at
the brewery are Orangemen.
A certain noble lord who has been “lying
low ” in Sydney for a couple of years has taken
his departure for N.Z., and from thence goes
“ home ” —to legislate, mayhap, and perhaps be-
come an authority on colonial questions.
In the new N.S.W. Parliament are 15
Roman Catholics and Mr. John Haynes, The
Catholies are over a fourth of the population, and
as they return, say, one member in nine “Protes-
tant Ascendancy ” is by no means in danger.
Attempting to belittle Ninian Melville on
account of his association with Thomas Walk»r,
“ Smudgy ” Haynes says that an “ honest infidel
may be respected, but a canting hypocrite never.”
Let’s see; what faith dees “Apple-bob” profess
at present ?
It la high time that Queensland made a
move in the direction of reciprocity with Vic -
toria. Years ago, five millions went North fnm
Melbourne which has religiously stuck there ever
since, to say nothing of the planters similarly
situated.
The S. M. Herald alleges that Mr. Gan an,
the New South Wales Treasurer, wishes to abolish
secular education. As a matter of fact, the Hefald
knows perfectly well that Mr. Garvan has been
denounced by the priests for supporting secular
education.
Apropos of Froggy Parkes’ prediction that
the White Waistcoat party would win the New
South Wales General Election by 25 votes, it is
rumoured that the old man’s services, as sportmg
tipster, have been negotiated for by a Sydney
evening paper.
The one-man-one-vote principle is to be a
prominent plank in the programme of the Liberal
party at the forthcoming Victorian elections. The
principle would have been embodied in the Elec
total Act passed last session had it not been for
the vacillation of Gillies.
“What I admire moit about Lord Har-
tington is his conspicuous youbedamnedness.”
Yes, and as long as Hartington and Co. are
allowed to own England, Scotland, and Ireland
among them their go-to blazes style of front will
continue its conspicuosiby.
F. B. Suttor, the defeated Minister of
Education in the Dibbs (N.S.W.) Government, is
too generous a man for these degenerate political
days. In self-defence he ought to state the real
reason of Parkes’s unmanly attack on him at
Bathurst a couple of years ago.
It is an open secret in N.S.W. political
circles that J. P. Abbott and Copeland positively
declined to join the Dibbs’ Government because
of their disapproval of the Protectionist party
being led by Mr. Dibbs. Nevertheless, the new
Government will find no more faithful supporters
than they will be.
“ It is not easy to preserve one’s patience
in dealing with the Dibbs Ministry,” says the
Evening News. No, Alfred. When you think
what a splendid chance you have lost of being on
the popular side and at the same time dishing the
other (now prosperous) evening paper, you must
be as mad as a wet hen.
Cardinal Moran, when Interviewed by a
Melbourne Daily Telegraph reporter* and
sounded re the “Parnell letters,” said: “I can
tell you a fact —that those letters were offered for
sale to the Archbishop of Dublin before they were
sold to the Times. There is no question that they
are impudent forgeries”
Hume Black Is thought a good deal cf at
Mackay for his Humer in going in as a thoroughly
independent man and turning out a Minister.
The planters who used to pay up so much per
annum can see now that he is really independent
—almost for the first time in his political exis-
tence. And, what’s more, he’s done well at Mount
Morgan. „
Writes Melbourne Punch, a Freetrade
organ “Protection is the rising tide in the
mother colony. Freetrade is the ebbing tide.
Time works on the side of Dibbs. Parkes may as
well make up his mind to turn his time to the
rearing up of his second or third brood of young
chickens, and revising his ‘ Baby Song ’ for a
second edition.”
Queensland can’t make out why it la that
Griffith is so sweet with the other ex-Premier.
The general opinion is that he is biding his time
and that he will come out a stronger democrat
than ever. On dit that his opinion was asked in a
recent mining matter in which certain ministerial
names were mixed up. His report was : “No case
—a pity, but no case.”
Mr. Frank Walsh is the N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary librarian vice Mr. Rogers, deceased. Now,
Walsh, take stock before the session fairly begins.
Are the books on Pugilism on the middle shelf?
Is the big volume of Blasphemous Ourse-words in
the library or has it been taken home on loan to
Potts Point? And how about the Essay on
Violent Strangulation ?


BLIND LEADING BLIND.
“Parkes has been re-elected leader cf the Foreign-Trade Party."-DAILY PRESS.


. f Jjf
Je 9 . J- Us ffd,
Pi*
i/ici
tic S/urfo/ tyfwy *?* f** '/ *?/
/ ' -rl '<- /0/ "?y yo/CC- fa 5 o
CJ/fc/n fc \f ou ?? d ' // y- f/ /. ;
oj Tobacco TZ ■>/*»■*
* 10
d fotlo/td. if ij m P ar ' js °J cd
P TtACI f 'and 4*^n r y fiM-
ou/
1 Coyreyjep c
fife /part you fyy*
OdouZ / W/fAe. /hos-e,
V
, .0' Lse,^wO
yj o
/•
J a. r'eo'*' e '*^ a ' ot a^7 '
■ S&/t'B*P3 * c '•*
/«j/ ao«C /e . ' 1 ' =
7^ e /i^co. ? />o .S'*/- a&~
■6r*.f*<c <?
.r.covye^cCjoyCle^^
( S' 'tfor* firoaf- e-Tcle-XT /e/ u<s />**y '
/ /Yo / /
* t?<*/>*> # at \ /<3 / A/ !
h i aa./fc " Syo'tre. ijes-rrctj
/ // /& id 'p> Joy& o/
ho«u/c* I* i* i a™/, /SiA a? <*
\ S ftp £. Cc >? J' of~ %
7 ■ ' * s J
usu.a.l Collectionfotflj*
i/tesdJhth CLhrt / fy*- I'iL r jJ f
Cd/// reye^be^Wa..r, tops e
y ff 6a. c**, >o*p*>-eW*a are-
-0-oce/i7a./>/ > e 6ur-f czyci
Cirt_ 4y a £oy >pa fsot, /fp Tpe S'/pfC
Of ft/* /
j Ofoec/atc* Aa.cc ccj /$
e/- •/ *
//7i/
\ V.
77?/s /& J'o r 7 u
C-Ccse. oy- yDOCOe/-fu?
fio / o <-tj Q./y o f/O/?, Cc S/f~ S £
yy* e f'7S Caci^c^
6u Jyo/r/y<3 a $/7fer-77~
(xy77/€'y-~7&6fc£eo
6C"py^'?° c &.
jPe cc c,oy.
'f/J Ceccvtk
o or net
j OcU/r of- !||hv
' I
Tlif//** &**■/'* fir** '4
~fO 7ff& / C?u6 Uca///' cep * _&SrunA: ecs u-Sua.}.
/// r My eCmaryo* \
jeer*. 4e*o'fo o&rrtCcS
Cfi-ccU/i/ « ,
SMOKE CHURCH-SERVICES.
AS RECOMMENDED BY A DAILY NEWSPAPER’S “CONSTANT READER ")
“WHY NOT HAVE SERVICES AT WHICH MEN COULD SMOKE?”


BWCKT BOKOIfIA, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from th Went Australian " Boronia
MegiftUffuia." Bold Everywhere. Price, 3a. 6d.,
Cfa., and lie. Poat free to any addreea in
Australasia. Be aura you got the genuine.
V&ANOIB LONQMOR*. 188 Bonrke-at., Vast,
Mokt and Chandon’s Champaonb.— Messrs. Most and
Chandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
champagne-producers in the world. Their Dry-
Imperial ” 1884 vintage is the pure Juioe of selected
grapes from their own vineyards of 2600 acres In the
choicest districts of France. It oan now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant In Australia. The Imperial
Crown Is in each corner of label, and 1884 branded on
orh tod label
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
In Rev. Ohaa. Strong’s paper, Our Qooi>
Words, for February, appears this : —“The Aus-
tralian Natives’ Association will find that they
have their wotk before them to make a nation out 1
of such material. There is a Scotch saying, more
plain than pretty— ‘ Ye canna’ mak’ a silk purse
oot o’ a boo’s lug.’” And yet Marcus Clarke
once tried to make us believe that the future Aus-
tralian religion would be “a form of Presby-
terianism.” Evidently not Mr. Charles Strong’s
form of Presbyterianism.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED UN.
SHE LEADING HOUSE
fOI
Planoip OrganSp liisis,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special Attention la called to the following
Exceptionally Firat-claaa
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS >
ÜBBBL and LEOHLEITER PIANOS
P. SOHAAF and GO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURIOH PIANOS
Oar Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Plano ever
factored
Oar BELLING PIANO, which cannot he ez
celled at £3B.
BSTBY ORGANS. BSTIY ORGANS,
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which apeak for themaelveal The Bstef
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con*
alderably reduced their prioea, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many Inferior (or so-called
" cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work<
manshlp and durability.
INSTRUMENTS BENT TO ANT FART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT BTBTBM.
V.H.PAUNttU-,U
IN GEORGE STREET, two doors Irons P O.
Society
Professor Webster, who is travelling
through Australia on behalf of the Agricultural
Department of the United States, stated that he
has not had personal experience of Victorian
Insects, but from what he can judge the insects of
the colony must be very numerous. They are,
Professor —very numerous, indeed. They congre-
gate in large quantities at the Governor s levfsa,
and are indigenous to Parliament House. Many
fine fat insects may be met with at the Mayor s
banquets, and the female species^swarm at Lady
Loch’s garden parties. Stick a pin through some
of ’em, Professor. Secure as many specimens as
you possibly can and take them back to Amenca
preserved in spirits. They are generally pretty
partial to spirits,
* • •
Two Melbourne ladies have just recognised
the photograph of a man who was found dead in
the University Gardens many months ago They
are the wife and daughter respectively of the de-
parted body, and only came forward because they
casually heard that two empty brandy-bottles
had been discovered beside the remains. Which
shows how necessary it is for men to leave some
satisfactory clue to their identity.
• • *
The general public has a strong stomach
and a weak imagination, or it wouldn’t eat beef
carried on the heads of butchers whose curly locks
are plentifully besmeared with hair-oil. At least
it looks like hair-oil. Perhaps it may be only the
grease out of the meat. It’s just as well to take
an optimistic view of the situation.
• * •
A Rockhampton lady lately prosecuted
her maid for stealing a piece of soap.
• • ■
Among the assets of an Insolvent Mel-
bourne stockbroker’ are 9000 shares in a quartz
company, valued at £2O.
• * *
A Staffordshire parson has made a new
departure in the delicate matter of divorce, by
drawing up a treaty with the co-respondent before
coming into court. The shepherd’s wife left six
children to mourn her departure with the other
fellow, and otherwise annoyed her husband by
forcing him to find a tubstituoe for her at the har-
monium where she had been wont to thump out
hosannahs in the days of innocence. But rather
than gamble, as it were, on this sad transaction
by leaving the jury to assess his cash winnings,
the parson agreed to take co-respondent s cheque
for £lOO payable to bearer, and Heaven saw that
it was good.
• * *
The appointment of the Earl of Dudley’s
late physician as resident at Sydney Hospital, over
the heads of local applicants with high qualifica-
tions and strong claims to the position, looks very
like a Government House job.
* * •
At the close of the recent Wesleyan con-
ference in .Sydney a unanimous vote of thanks was
passed to “the numerous ladies in Sydney and
suburbs who had provided temporary homes for
the ministers attending the conference.” Beneath
this simple little announcement is concealed a
mine of humour more uproarious than any humour
ever yet unearthed. What a page drawn
on this theme by the scoffing caricaturists of Lk
Journal Pour Rirk !
* * *
A British physician propounds a theory
that persistent cornet-playing has a tendency to
destroy one of the loveliest features of woman’s
character. After a few years spent in preying on
the muzzle of the brass instrument, the human
mouth gets hard—almost horny—inits consistency,
like the jaw of a carnivorous bird, and the ecstatic
salutation of girlish affection feels like the concus-
sion of a hard, red brick. The feminine cornetist
can’t kiss with any gratification to either of the
parties concerned, and in proof of this the writer
tells how he was floored by the embrace of a
gushing young thing who had tak* n to blowing
the festive horn s—“ I bad known her in child-
hood, when we together hunted the same school-
master with pea-shooters, and at the conclusion of
her cornet solo I greeted her for the first time in
several years. Of course we kissed each other im-
pulsively. Good heavens ! That was my mental
exclamation. I felt as though I had been hit
with brass knuckles or smacked by a steak-beater.
I instinctively pressed my handkerchief to my be-
numbed month, and looked for the weapon with
which I had been assaulted. It was the first kiss,
however, that I had felt. Good playing on the
cornet depends upon the amount of inflexibility
which can be imparted to the upper lip. Hera had
become fairly adamantine.”
• • •
The Victorian land tax la only applied to
large estates, so one big landholder down there
thought he would do a smart thing. He divided
his property into two halves, each being under
the taxable area, and conveyed one to his wife, on
the understanding that she was to make a will in
his favour to insure bis getting the land in case of
her death. However, she died suddenly before
the will was made, and her share passed to her
brothers, who hated their brother-in-law like
poison. He went and explained that it had only
been conveyed as a “ matter of form, you know,”
but they saw they had a gocd thing on, and they
decided to stick to it, “ just as a matter of form.”
Then the owner, or ex-owner, which ever you like
to call him, went to law with them to try and get
the property bask, but he was defeat'd and had
to pay all the costs.
• • •
If there is any demand for a roomy grave
with nice high railings and cornices, and a bell on
the front ‘door, and green Venetian blinds that can
be let down when the remains are not at home
if any one wants a quiet and select sepulchre, with
no low dustmen buried close at band, and no
coarse, uneducated dead in too close vicinity let
him look at this advertisement cut from the
London Bazaar :
Highgate Cemetery, private grave, neatly fitted with
granite head-stone, freestone base, iron rail, young girl
only interred therein. Price very low.
Poor little girl 1 For sale along with the grave-
price very low ! It is rough on her, anyhow. If
her ghost takes in the papers and she seesher dust
in the market how must she feel about it ! The
granite headstone, and the freestone base, and the
iron rail aren’t of much account, but we would
like to see the animal who has a little girl’s grave
for sale, and ask him what he thinks of himself,
and how much he’ll take for his own sepulchre
when he is deposited in one and his commercial
soul is stumbling over open drains and dodging
ash-heaps on its way to another land.
• • •
A man with the suggestive nam-3 of Angus
M Innes committed suicide at Abbotsford (Vic )
the other day, because he was pestered by book-
agents. Poor fellow! he hoped to avoid them,
and has rushed right into the thick of them,
• • *
Well-dressed ruffianism had a field-day at
Mr. W. H. Paling’s expense. That gentleman
provided luncheon for all the visitors to the site of
ths new Convalescent Hospital, on the day on
which the foundation-stone was Laid. The private
tables laid for Mr. Paling’s Immediate friends
were rushed, and the viands disposed of by—hogs.
• * •
The United Methodist Free Church of
Melbourne is jubilant; the sect is wildly waving
its hat in the air, leaping up and dancing round,
also crying in a loud voles, “ Verily ! verily ! the
good is for the just, and the Lord rewardeth his
faithful ministers ! ’ For the first time in the
history of the church its official head has been in-
vited to dine with the Governor. The Chairman
of the Conference, in communicating the glad
tidings to a recent meeting, said : “The honour
was yours, dear brethren —I had the dinner.”
(Applause.) A golden harp, a timbrel, a trom-
bone, piano, sackbut, French horn—anything
A Victorian in England la going to pre-
sent an organ and peal of bells to the new Angli-
can Cathedral at Melbourne. It’s evident he
doesn’t intend returning to that city.
• * *
You can always get a woman to keep a
secret if you give her chloroform enough.
• • •
Potatoes cannot be bought at any of the
northern N.S.W. stores. Those who grow their
own “ murphies ” serve them at dessert with the
other costly luxuries. The spud-famine is rough
on the bakers.
jj f • La p /^ oT^w' e t
A PREFECT BOA.
O jubilate and shout hurrah !
Ye holy Joes and Jills —
Ye Jingoes dire from near and far
In chokers and in frills.
For livers lame this joy is more
Than antibilious pills.
The Lord hath sent a blessing down,
The choicest of His stock—
A radiant and rosy crown
To decorate His flock ;
And Methodism’s won renown
And dined with Guv’ner Loch.
The sect has fed within the glow
Of high vice-regal state,
By proxy though, ’tis well to know,
They sent a delegate—
A man who could sink “ shop ” and show
No wish to pass the plate.
Eureka!
Roll up, Eureka’s heroes, on that grand Old Rush
afar,
For Lalor’a gone to join you in the big camp where
you are;
Roll up and give him welcome such as only diggers
can,
For well he battled for the rights of miner and of
man.
And there, in that bright, golden land that lies
beyond our sight,
The record of his honest life shall be his “ miner’s
right.”
Here, many a bearded mouth shall twitch, and
many a tear be shed,
And many a grey old digger sigh to hear that
Lalor’s dead.
But wipe your eyes, old fossickers, o’er worked-out
fields that roam,
You need not weep at parting with a digger going
home.
• • •
Now from the strange wild seasons past, the days
of golden strife,
Now from the Roaring Fifties comes a scene from
Lalor’s life :
All gleaming white amid the shafts o’er gully, hill,
and fiat
Again I see the tents that form the camp at Bal-
larat.
I hear the shovels and the picks, and all the air is
rife
With the rattle of the cradles and the sounds of
digger-life;
The clatter of the windlass-boles, as spinning
round they go,
And then the signal to his mate, the digger s cry,
“Below!”
From many a busy “ pointing ” forge the sound of
labour swells,
The tinkling at the anvils is as clear as silver bells.
I hear the broken-English from the mouth at least
of one
From every state and
nation that is known
beneath the son;
The homely tongue of
Scotland and the
brogue of Ireland
blen^
With the dialects of England, from Berwick to
Land’s End;
And to the buy concourse here the West has sent
a part,
The land of gulches that has been immortalised by
Harte;
The land where long from mining-camps the blue
smoke upward curled;
The land that gave that “Partner” true and
‘ 1 Mliss ” unto the world ;
The men from all the nations in the New World
and the Old,
All side by side, like brethren here, are delving
after gold ;
But suddenly the warning cries are heard on every
side
As, closing in around the field, a ring of troopers
ride;
Unlicensed diggers are the game, their class and
want are sins,
And so, with all its shameful scenes, the “ digger-
hunt ” begins;
The men are seized who are too poor the heavy
tax to pay,
And they are chained, as convicts were, and
dragged in gangs away ;
While in the eye of many a mate is menace
scarcely hid —
The diggers’ blood was slow to boil, but scalded
when it did.
But now another match is held that sure mint
light the charge,
A digger murdered in the camp ! his murderer at
large I
* * *
Roll up ! Roll up I the pregnano cry awakes the
evening air,
And angry faces surge like waves around the
speakers there.
" What are our sins that we should be an out-
lawed class ?” they say,
“ Shall we stand by while mates are seized and
dragged like ‘ lags ’ away ?
Shall insult be on insult heaped ? Shall we let
these things go ?”
And on a roar of voices ocrtnes the diggers’ answer—
“ No !”
The day has vanished from the scene, but not the
air of night
Can cool the blood that, ebbing back, leaves brows
in anger white.
Lo 1 from the roof of Behbley’s inn the flames are
leaping high;
They write “ Revenge !” in letters red across the
smoke-dimmed shy.
Now the oppressed will drink no more humilia-
tion’s cup;
Call out the troops! Read martial law!—the
diggers’ blood is up I
• • •
“To arms! To arms !” the cry is out j “To arms,
if man thou art;
For ev’ry pike upon a pole will find a tyrant’s
heart j”
Now Lalor comes to take the lead, the spirit does
not lag, , ,
And down the rough, wild diggers kneel beneath
the “Diggers’ Flag,”
And, rising to their feet, thiy svtfear, while rugged
hearts beat high,
To stand beside their leadef aod to conquer or to
die!
Around Eureka’s stockrider now,’ the shades of
night close fast,
Three hundred sleep beside’ tfieit atmS, and thirty
sleep their last.
• i •
Around about fair Melbourne towii the sounds of
bells are borne
That call the citizens to prayer this fateful Sab-
bath morn;
But there, upon Eureka’s hill, a hundred miles
away,
The diggers’ forms lie white and still above the
blood-stale ed clay.
The bells that ring the diggers’ death might also
ring a knell
For those few gallant soldiers, dead, who
did their duty well.
There’s many a “someone’s” heart shall
ache, and many a someone care,
For many a “someone’s darling’’lies all
cold and pallid there.
And now in smoking ruins lie the huts and
tents around,
The diggers’ gallant flag is down and tram-
pled in the ground.
• • *
The sight of murdered heroes is to hero
hearts a goad,
A thousand men are up In arms upon the
Creswick road,
And wildest rumours in the air are flying
up and down,
: Tis said the men of Ballarat will march
upon the town.
But not in vain those diggers died, their
comrades may rejoice,
For o’er the voice of tyranny is heard the'
people’s voice;
lb says “Reform your rotten law, the
digger’s wrongs make right,
Or else with them, our brothers now, we’ll
gather in the fight.”
And now before my vision post the scenes
that followed fast —
The trials, and the triumph of the diggers’
cause at last.
So, of such stuff the men were made who saw our
nation born,
And such as Lalor were the men who lead her
footsteps on;
And of such men there’ll many be, and of such
leaders some,
la the roll-up of Australians on some dark day
to come.
H. LAWSON.


Store Cattle fob Saif —lOOO male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
The danger of naming children after race-
horses is painfully evident. Quite recently the
Melbourne A ffß published two dozen sets of
obituary verses to the memory of a seraph who
had withered away under the infliction of beinpr
christened Martina H»nry. And now Dr. Youl
has inquested an infant boy baptised as Ernest
Trident, lie succumbed to fly-blown brawn.
Permanent FHeels,
Permanency of effect la a great desideratum,
whether ia the arts, in literature, or in medicine.
Especially is this tun In medicine. A patient
may spend a large amount of money and pass
many weeks or months of suffering, only to find
at the end that the aid secured was but temporary.
We are glad, therefore, to be able to say to our
readers that there is one medicine which has nob
only done a vast amount of good in curing people,
but, best of all, its potency is such that they
remain cured. We would not make so unequivocal
a statement had we not the evidence of proof
established beyond the shadow of a doubt. John
Gann, Esq , a member of the Ballarat Mining
Board, who in May, 1880, was given up to die, by
five of the best Victorian physicians, suffering as
he was from Bright’s disease in its last stages,
was restored to complete health with Warner’s
safe cure, and remains well to this day Mr.
Gann’s present address is Mt. Blackwood, Vic-
toria, write to or call on him, and learn the ex-
perience of a grateful man. James J. Weigh r ,
Esq , of the Daily Telegraph newspapsr, Mel-
bourne, is another example of what Warner’s safe
remedies will do for a man when he is laid up in
bed with rheumatism, Mr. Wright had, for years
previous to 1885, been in the locomotive depart-
ment of the Victorian Railways, but had gradually
grown worse until he could work no more, and
sent in his resignation. He was examined by the
Government medical officer, who reported that
Mr. Wright was suffering from chronic rheuma-
tism, and incurable On this report, compen-
sation was granted. In May, 1885, Mr. Wright
was cured with Warner’s safe cure and Warner’s
safe rheumatic cure, and from June, 1885, to this
day, has not had an attack of -heumatism. Joseph
Gbimmond. M.H.R, of Wellington, N.Z , says
that he used Warner’s safe cure for kidney and
liver complaint some twelve months asro, and has
ever since been in good health. Miss SaE‘H
Hedding, of Goolwa, S A., from the effects of
scarlet fever and blood-poisoning became so re-
duced in health that she lest her mind, and local
doctors being unable to cure her, she was placed
in an insane asylum, but becoming no better her
friends removed her, and becan giving her War-
ner’s safe cu'e and safe pills. Gradually she
gained health and strength, and in less than s’x
months time was completely cured and in her
right mind. This was in August, 188G. Under
date of Oct 28th, 1888, she writes “ I have
much pleasure in advising you that I am still in
good health. I cannot speak too highly of War-
ner’s safe remedies. Please accept my thanks and
sincere gratitude.” Mr. W. H. Griggs, Store-
keeper, at BeenHgb, Queensland, was cured of
liver complaint and indigestion with Warner’s safe
cure and Warner’s safe pills in November, 1887.
He writes us under date of Nov 28, 1888 : “My
recovery is permanent ” Mr. John Lindsay,
carpenter, of Hanson street, New Town, Welling-
ton, NZ, was cured cf Bright’s disease by
Warner s safe cure ten years ago, after being given
up to die, and is in good health to day. He had
the medicine sent out from London, it being then
unknown in the colonies. Mrs. A. M. C.
Hamilton, wife of the proprietor of the Eagle
Hotel, Bluff Harbour, N.Z , was cured last May,
of nervous headaches - to which she had preview sly
been subject—by taking Warner’s safe nervine,
and has not had a nervous headache since. We
could give very many more proofs of the value of
Warner’s safe remedi s, and the permanency cf
the cures they effect, but we believ a the foregoing
esses are sufficient to convince any candid mind
of the truthfulness of our assertions.
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES (WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OF THE
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death vitkin the Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival, FULL PARTICIPATION
IN TONTINE SURPLUS «r Krtatbei Is til tb* Oovoviw tad la tb« Uhitsd KiVftDOM
[?]
840 Marquarie-street, Noith, Feb. 27, 1880.
Dsar Moorabixda, —
It is terribly hard, dear, to find out anything about
the Parkes marriage, but U„is pretty certain that the new
Lady Parkes is very domeetioat d, and does not go much
into society. Little by little. I suppose, all the facts will
leak out. I was told by a girl friend who lives near the
Parkes mansion at Balmain, that her ladyship’s bridal
gown was of dark-brown silk, trimmed with broch6, and
bonnet ty match.
I have received the following Dear Miss Smith,—
Last Wednesday Mrs. C. drove up to our house in a cab,
entered into conversation with my maid at the hall door,
and was afterwards shown into the waiting-room- Her
object in coming was to persuade the servant to leave my
service and enter her own as house and-parlour maid.
Finding that she met with no success on her own account,
she tried to get her to promise to enter the service of a
friend of hers, Mrs. A., wife of a bank-manager with house
in town, but who was going up country. Getting no
answer one way or the other, after about half-an-hour’s
conversation Mrs. C. drove away in a cab which had been
waiting for her. Next morning a letter came for my maid
from Mrs. A. asking her to call the following Saturday
evening, mentioning how often shs might “go out,” and
also arranging to wait a week or ten days for her. You
may possibly remember the nico, quiet girl I had when
you last called. She has been with me nearly a year and
suits me in every particular. If mistresses behave like
that to one another, no wonder at servants behaving as
they do.—M il.
Dear Sapphira A par in a recant letter of yours re the
squadron in N.Z , recalls an incident in connection with
the same in (say) the island of Barataria. The looai naval
commandant, on the arrival of the Equadron, sent out in-
vitations to a dance. Mrs. de la Megasse did the same,
adding; “To meet the Admiral and officers of the
squadron.” Both balls were fixed for the same
date, the squadron setting sail on the day after-
wards. Hence the following complication. The naval
commandant sent his invitations to the officers by mes-
senger in the steam-launch. Mrs. de la M. sent here by
post; thus the former were the first received and so ac-
cepted, while the la ter were declined on plea of previous
engagements. Meanwhile all the civilian snobs, mascu-
line, feminine, and neuter, accepted Mrs. de la M.’s, but
the knowing ones ac:epted the i ommandant’s. Great
Heavens! what a shindy there was at Mrs. de ia M.’s
when the gues's dissevered that no gold lace was to be
there 1 The female snobs had to be content with the
common or barn-door variety of partner, and Mrs. de la
M. cusses the day she counted her naval chicks before
they were incubated. —Yours, Wai Fbmmerau.
So the icon has at last shown some pity for the un-
happy women who herdl together at State “drawing-
rooms,” by allowing them to sport a reasonable quantity
of clothes when they kiss her royal hand. Tne Lord
Chamberlain has issued a special Court circular, informing
the duchesses that, it they enter the throne-room in high-
necked gowns, the royal family will endeavour not to go
off into convulsions. I think this is another proof of the
interest which her Gracious Majesty takes in all matters
conoerning the welfare of her subjects' chests, don’t you ?
And if she has spent fifty years in discovering that the
ancient half-naked regulation was killing off her very
old nobility, well, we must remember that Our Sovereign
Lady always slows a good deal of her own natural
charms on the-e occasions. She keeps in awe t heated
room, however, while the “presentations.” freeze in adja-
cent portions of the Palace until they have curtseyed
and returned home to be put into warm flannel. This
royal mania for human flesh must be in the Guelph blood,
because Prinoees Louise got at loggerheads with the
Canadian ladies through insisting that they should wear
low bodices and shoulder-straps at her winter receptions.
The ladies quietly intimated that Louise had better order
an English climate, and sbe didn't trouble the Dominion
very much afterwards. Fancy going abroad with bare
buzzums when the thermometer is 25 below Zero 1
A lady friend of nine in Tasmania, fired with religious
z ’.a’, lately undertook to tsaoh in a Ragged School. She
was given a class cf “ little vulgar beys,” and hearing
one of them coolly recounting how much fruit he had
stolen during the week, she gently reproved him, telling
him that God is everywhere and sees everything. The
boy looked doubtful, then asked: “la He here now?’
“ Yes.” “Is IT a out in the street ? ” “ Yea— everywhere."
“BHein my brother Bill’s garden ? ’ “ Yes.” “You’re
a liar,” he remarked triumphantly, “yer see my brother
BUI hasn’t got a garden.” I don’t think her enthusiasm
will stand many shocks like that.
Little Elsie Stanley II ill, the Australian pianiste who
has taken the musioal cognoscenti of the Stuttgart Con
servatory by storm, received her first musical metre c .ion
from Madame Charbonnet-Kellerman and Herr Kretch-
mann, of Sydney, and is a native of Toowoomba (Q ).
The Empress of Japan has discarded the bustle, and,
apropos of this, I notice that an American rep irter who
had stationed himself on Broadway, New York, noted
that among a hundred well dressed women, 15 had totally
discarded the bustle, 24 wore it in moderate siz >, 28> in
greatly reduced proportions; and Id sported the giant
size. But the observer was thrown out of his bearings
when he found that in the case of five-and-twenty damsels
he was unable to decide whether it was bustle or girl.
Take warning, my dear, from the unhappy experience
of a lady re sently married ia Hobart, and spend less time
in the drawing-room and more in the kitchen before you
take charge of a horse. The lady in question is a perfect
waPzsr, can paint beautifully, and read a Frenbh novel
without consulting a dictionary Very often ; but She finds
these accomplishments utterly useless in housekeeping,
and her comical ideas are greatly amusing her riiore ex-
perienced friends. First of all, she astonished the butcher
with an order for a hind quarter of lamb with the shoulder
raised ; next, having procured a loin of fresh pork, she
boiled it; then, thinking were less prceaic than
dinners, she tried her hand at home-made cakes, with the
result that her ginger-nuts could on<y be eaten with a
spoon, while a sponge-cake was such a dismal failure
that she bitterly reproached the friend who had given
her the recipe. It transpired, however, that she had re-
ceived verbal directions for making sponge-cake and tugar
iceiog, and confusing the two recipes, had added “ a
squeeze of the blue-bag" to the cike mixture, and you
can imagine the result. By the way, Hobart girls appear
(o be taught to paint before they c in ! pell, for I hear that
at a private art exhibition there a landscape bore a written
label, “ A silvan scene," and on someone gently intimat-
ing to the artist that it was not finite orthographically
correct she altered it to silvan !
Ssmeone who strongly recommends “Mixed Natation ’
in the columns cf a Sydney daily piper says that “it is a
pity that our women should be debarred by custom from
participating in the pleasures of surf-bathing. ’ But he
completely gave himself away when he continued:—
“ Many of the Polynesian women are exquisitely formed,
the frequent bathing giving their limbs that beautiful
moulding and lithecess characteristic cf the whole race,
and the face s and forms of the young girls are often very
beautiful.” lam certain that I have seen the man who
wrote that, sitting in the “ bald-heads’ row ” at the theat re.
Tou might have knocked me down with the proverbial
feather when a gentleman friend—now, don't laugh-
ŧ
“ AND BOXING, TOO.”
NEW CHUM (with college education, to selector): “CAN YOU GIVE US A
JOB, BOSS.
SELECTOR: “WHAT CAN YOU DO CAN YOU DO FENCING?”
N.C: “FENCING, YES-AND BOXING, TOO.”
assured me that Sir William Robinson was 55 last birth-
day. Fancy that clean-faced, slim repn sentative of
England's greatness being such an ancient institution as
that I He would pass for 40 with bis vioe-regal back to
the light, and jet, I suppose, he could really grow a white
beard and moustache if he wasn't so careful to shave
close. Men were deceivers ever, my dear.
Talking of Sir William Robinson, it seems that the
Liedertafellers—new word—of Adelaida, have teen
serenading him. I suppose his Es. posed upon a balcony
in the pale moonlight, while the Eons of harmony sang
love-songs to him in an emotional key. How very
touching 1
At a Hobart dance lately, a man whom I know was
puzzled at the item, “ Kitchen Lancers,” on the pro-
gramme ; he had never heard of such a dance before, and
could not find anyone able to enlighten him. However,
having secured a partner, he found that the only difference
between “kitchen lanoers” and ordinary lancets con-
sisted In the fact that one was permitted to seizs one's
partner by the waist and have what he terms a “good
swing round,” instead of the usual stand-off fashion. The
difference, in fae 1 -, lay in “ kitobin’ hold,” as the portly
Mrs. Mugson subsequently explai- ed.
Fedoras are still worn by young girls ; but of course a
young and pretty girl can wear anything that ever ap-
peared in the heavens above, or the earth beneath. A
lemon-coloured Fedora 1 saw the other day, worn with
a cream costume, looked cool and pretty ; also a pale pink
one, worn with a white dress. White, embroidered dresses,
by the way, are still much favoured, and olive-green-in
fact, all shades of dark green, are very fashionable in
bonnets, hats, or costumes.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Bit of String.
Lydia Elliott, of the Lower Hutt (N Z ),
is an artless pansy-bud still rejoicing in the glad
golden springtide of youth, though soon to be sun-
kissed into the fragrant flower of womanhood-
aged 18, wearing a blush, a bang, and No 10
goloshes. For the past 10 moons she has clean ed
the moleskins and hashed the hash of a worthy
settler for the honorarium of eight shillings a
week “and found.” But, though lowly her lor, and
of poor but honest parents, many long, long
thoughts flit through Lydia’s carmine-thatched
cerebrum. The cold and cynic stranger, watch-
ing Lydia peel the harmless necessary potato,
milk the mild-eyed mangle, or turn the creaking
cow, would little suspect the wealth of weird,
wild fancy and unutterable longing to blaze
comet-like in the world’s eye that cavort beneath
her modest exterior.
• •
A Sabbath night or two ago Lydia was hft
in the moated grange without adult protection,
while the settler and his wife snaffihed mouthfuls
of super-heated salvation in the nearest petroleum-
lit bush sanctuary. Returning late, they heard
shrill elfin shrieks and broken-hearted sobs issuing
from their handmaiden’s bower. Inspection re-
vealed that crushed, fragile flower apparently
lashed to her bedpost and, like Godiva of old,
“ clothed-on with chastity ” and nothing else but
freckles and a bit of string. Unlike Godiva, her
“rippling tresses” were not “showered to her
knee,” but were scattered in c.imson profusion,
bedewed with local bear’s grease, on the floor.
• »
Her sad, sad story was told all too soon :
Two ruffians—one long, one short—with masks,
dark-lanterns, daggers, rope-ladders, swords,
pikes, the Revised Version, bludgeons, striped
~,, , ’ , ,
Jerseys, sea-boots, holy stones, Epps’cocoa, thumb-
screws, racks, gin-sling, and various properties too
numerous to mention, also a bull-pup and a park
of artillery, had burst into her vestal chamber,
M .d he, violently, cub off her fir. auburn trees.,
and bound her to the bed—departing, cne up the
chimney, the other through the window.
• • •
n , ~ „
By the special mercy of heaven the police-
man who was called in appears to have had several
inches less of idiocy inside him than the average
»»>■ office Xucideulally he m ...ured the s.riu B
that had tied (?) Lydia s waist to the bed. It was
20 inches long. Then he measured Lydia’s waist
—circumference 36 inches ! To a medical exam-
ination the shrinking, tender creature eagerly
. , , , . , . , ,
consented, bub, ere it arrived, confessed that she
had had “ a kind of nightmare, had tied herself
up to the bed, shorn her own mane, and the “ two
ruffians ” were merely the emanations of a too
poetic! temperament and a fauey iterated
by underdone pork, cheese, onions, sausages,
cold plum-pudding, goose, stuffing, and yaller-
backed novels, and the evening papjrs pub-
lished in the adjoining town. The long and
~
the short men who had been arrested in
various parts of the empire “ on suspicion ” were
at once released without a stain on their karrack-
there.
• • •
„ , . , , ,
Some morals protrude a fathom or so on
either side this veracious chronicle. The first of
these is that somewhere beneath the vaulted dome
~ , , , , .
of heaven wander a long man and a short man,
unknown, who, did they only know it, should
return humble and hearty thanks that (Lydia’s
waist is a yard round and not 2<i inches. Had
that waist been smaller or the string longer; or
had the investigating policeman been of the ordi-
nary cold, dense stone whence his species are
hewn, or a detective blue-mouldy for a “case”
and kudos, one long and one short victim would
now be awaiting hanging, if not already hanged.
Another moral and cause for the devout thankful-
ness of two unknown males may be discovered in
the fact that Lydia’s little nightmare came off in
N.Z. and not in N.S. Wales. Had this touching
romarej eventuated in or near Sydney, two
men or boys would probably before this have
been hanged, after the judge had kept the jury
up all night hearing “the (nee,” ho matter
whether Lydia’s waist had been two yards wide
and that bit of string bitt fine foot long.
• • •
Finally, there ia a onh-legged inoral which
Lydia herself will do well to hug to her beating
heart. It is this ; She is wasted (we forbear to
write ivaisted) on New Zealand’s desert air. Let
her come to Sydney, the abode of poesy and
romance—and bring along her nightmares ! Come,
innocent one, pining for fame ! Come, sweet girl,
and we will hang for thee, not merely two pitiful
victims, but will offer up at thy behest and shrine
a hecatomb gf humans—long, short, and assorted!
Come, Lydia, come; and we will find a Judge who
shall be thy champion and avenger; the Social
Gimlet people will be thy watchdogs, and Nosiy
Bob shall rise up and call thee blessed ! Come,
Lydia, riches, fame, and testimonials await thee !
Come, pansy blossom ; come, lily of the valley ;
come, red rose of Sharon and be a Sydney heroine!
But Lydia, dear girl, don’t bring that—bit of
string.
There is a patriot In the Wocg aroo Asylum
(Q.) who is busy perfecting a scheme by which
Queensland alligators can be mounted on wheels
and used as a sort of heavy cavalry in case of a
hostile invasion.
The churches have experienced a big dis-
appointment. The brothers John and Charles
Campbell, “ of the wharf,” were during life muni-
ficmt donors to English Church funds, John
having endowed the Bishopric of Ifcverina with
£lO,OOO, besides other fat contributions. Charles
was an equally good churchman. The will of the
latter has been proved in Melbourne at, the tele-
grams tell us. £212,403, the whole of which vast
property has been left to his family, with the ex-
ception of £lOOO each to the Bishops of Melbourne
and Goulburn for charity purposes. Mr. Camp-
bell was a barrister-at-law, but did not practise,
and was appointed a member of the Legislative
Council of New South Wales in 1870, He died
at Inverness, in Scotland, a few months ago.


A RADICAL REFORM.
,r /"VH I I feel so Mondayish 1” exclaims the
Vf housemother at her breakfast-table on the
Monday morning. Although the above absurd
adjective is not to be found in the dictionary, yet
every woman well knows its meaning when she
looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling,
toiling, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The
house is thrown out of joint, other weekly duties
are as far as possible set aside, the children kept
out of the way, a cold dinner for the family, and a
warm reception for anyone who intrudes to waste
time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “ washing
day” is a thing of the past. Every busy, hard-
pressed mother knows the wretchedness and
gloom which the present washing-day brings down
upon the household. In the early morning all is
prepared for the all-important washerwoman,
timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then to
attack the week’s or fortnight’s batch of soiled
linen. The good-natured husband readily excuses
a hastily-prepared breakfast, for he hopes it may
betoken the speedy ending of the dreadful day.
The children are packed off to school, and then
begins in earnest the strife between the housewife,
anxious to get everything finished in good time,
and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the
greatest impartiality the laundress divides her
attention between the discussion of light refresh-
ments and the very latest gossip, the intervals of
time being filled up with a gentle application
to her special functions.
You will see advertised “Steam Washers,’
whereby the linen is washed in boiling water.
This is altogether unscientific, as any sensible
woman knows, for water which is at or nearly at
boiling point will fix a portion of the dirt in the
clothes, imparting to them a villainous yellow
tinge. This is the experience of all who have used
such machines, and the reason is easily explained.
All body linen contains a certain proportion of
albuminous substances, which, although readily
dissolved in cold water, have the property of being
rendered absolutely insoluble by the application
of hot water, thus forming what dyers term a
mordant. This catches and fixes any dirt or
colouring matter present in this “steaming” or
“ boiling ” washer, and the clothes are literally
dyed a bad colour instead of being cleansed.
Then there are the old-fashioned “ Rocking
Washers,” \#iich are made of wood or of iron, and
supported upon two standards. These revolving
or “ rocking machines ” are tedious to fill. The
clothes have first to be soaped and rubbed, then
taken singly and packed inside in a certain manner
under pain of failure. Then the heavy “machine ”
has to be rocked or swung round by main force.
Only a man or woman with unusual muscular
development should attempt the task. The Beale
Patent Washer can be used by a girl or lad of 15
years.
rS
>
/
/
■ *
Stale Patent Washer , Wringer and Mangle.
The two above-described “ Steaming ” and
“ Rocking ” Washers are those mostly before the
public in this colony at the present time.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows ; and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary,
only the water and clothes being agitated by an
accurately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-
wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no ar-
rangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards
and forwards, and a very small expenditure of
strength suffices to lash the water into a mass of
foaming suds. In the process; the clothes are
floated to and fro, up and down ; currents and
cross-currents of water are formed which meet and
are forced through and through the fabric, carry-
ing away every particle of dirt and stain. _ The
linen, being merely suspended in the water, is not
rubbed and scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither
has anything to submit to the hand-wringing pro-
cess which insensibly rips, tears, and wears the
clothes. Thus, the most delicate fabrics cannot
be torn by our system of washing. Every one
has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the
fierce rubbing they get upon washing boards, or
by the hands. With the Beale Patent Washing
Machines this friction is done away with. There-
fore, the clothes will last far longer than by hand-
washing, however careful. When the washing is
done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it may be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom,
and nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Finally, remember that no hand-rubbing and no
boiling are required with the Beale Patent
Washer, however much they may be necessary
with other machines.
Instead of the disturbance of the weekly wash-
ing-day, two or three hours will suffice to do the
double work, and to do it every way better. A
weary labour will be taken off the house-wife, and
a happier home will result. Is not the introduc-
tion of the Beale Patent Washer fairly to be called
a Radical Reform!
A customer of ours calls the change, 11 Washing
made Fun.”
May be had upon Easy Terms of Payment, no
matter where you live. Full Instructions accom-
pany each Machine. We will replace, without
charge, any part broken In transit.
Beale & Company,
489, 484, ard 486 Qaoroi Strut,
ittwwv-
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS. UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7jd. per lb. (free
from seed), Cafe Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30s. to 505., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters, Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frill-
inga, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER'S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address - LAWLER, SYDNEY.
J. LAWLER - & SONS,
General Importers and House Furnishers,
SYDNEY.
Established 18S0.
OJ
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTECT
TIVB ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Hours : 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
PUBLISHED.
"TUB BULLETIN'S"
History of Botany Bay,
Bx Arthur Qatu.
m riRVVIIII IKIVITKITIS
BT
Thr BuwßTiN’a well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. Hay.
Paid ■ ONE SHILLING,
Pm Post, li. Bd. (except Queensland).
U 1 ACKMTI.
SOMETHING NEW.
‘ The Story of the Wild West,”
BY
BUFFALO BILL.
Have you heard already of this Wonderful and
Torilling Work? Agents Wanted in all the
Colonies. Apply at once to
HISTORICAL PUBLISHING CO.,
0, Bridge street, Sydney.
HAWKESBURY RIVER, SUMMER
SEASON.
SANITORIUM HOTEL.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbnry River.
Hod and cold water, also salt water baths for
visito s; gas ‘through the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished; boating and fishing; three-
quarters of a mile frgm the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River,
See you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &c.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on tbo shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.
“ That, inval'd wife, mother sister or child can be made
the picture of health with Dr. Soule’s American Hop
BUteis.”
A Ntrvc Tonic.
HORSPOBD’S ACID PIIOSPIIATR.
Dr. F. O. Sadd, M R C S., and L.S A., BO Church-street;
Rugby, Warwickshire, Eng., says: “I have a favourable
opinion of it, and consider it an exoellent nerve tonic.”
“Mv Tailor,” 154 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suits to measure lor £3 3s.
PERFECT HEALTH I
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hookings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
When next yon bake try Pemoll's Swow-whits PAT'iHT
Roi.t.sb Fi,OHB. and pom bread will be u white as enow.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers,
Batlg’i Min; Powders,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
&«., &0., &•.
Steam Wobkb and Bbewbbt:
BABSIS STBEET, ULTIMO, S7DNE7
(opposite Golds brough’s Wool Stores).
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee: Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman.
Ninth Week of
Mb. CHARLES WARNER,
supported by a
Most Powerful Dramatic and Comedy Organisa-
t ion in
“CAPTAIN SWIFT” in SYDNEY.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessees ... Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.50.
UNDOUBTED SUCCESS OF
MR, GEORGE RIGNOLD
as “COUNT DANELLA ’ in
THE VENDETTA.
PRICES—Ss , 35,, 25,, and Is.
Box plan open daily at Vestibule from 10 till 5,
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
EVERY EVENING at 8 sharp.
TWO DISTINCT SUCCESSES.
READ WHAT THE PAPERS SAY 1
Sydney Grundy’s delightful Comedietta
IN HONOUR BOUND,
followed by
FORBIDDEN FRUIT.
ADMISSION—£2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIS.
gONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily; Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d.
KAHLER.
The Remarkable Race Picture,
THE DERBY DAY,
THE DERBY DAY,
THE DERBY DAY,
by
CARL KAHLER.
On View Daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Large
Room of
BEALE’S BUILDINGS.
484 George Street.
THE WHITE TERRACES,
THE WHITE TERRACES,
THE WHITE TERRACES,
And other works by the same Artist also on view.
Admission ... ONE SHILLING.
ERVOUS DEBILITY
Consult by letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a eelf-
addreseed 44. stamped envelope, forward Advice
and his Medical Book Free, Address —
Herr RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P O , Sydney, N.S W.
fJIO NERVOUS SUFFERERS.
What will convince you of the Wonderful Cura-
tive Properties of the Remedies prepared by the
American Botanic Dispensary, if the Remarkable
Cures that have been effected by their aid fail to
impress upon your nrnd this repeatedly proven
fact ? Thousands are using them, and all declare
that they possess all the virtues, and even more,
than claimed for them. Therefore, if you are run
down, tired, sick in body as well as m mind, do
nothing to patch up the worn-out machinery by
the aid of poisonous drugs, which are only injuring
you, but consult the Chief Physician of this reli-
able Institute, and let him prescribe for you. You
will then be certain to obtain that most cherished
boon —Sound, Robust Health. Note the Address,
AMERICAN BOTANIC DISPENSARY, 148
Forbes-street, Sydney.
Preliminary Announcement.
CONSUMPTION, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
hoarseness, and all diseases of the throat
and lungs, cured without fail by a new remedy
made solely of Australian herbs. We prove its
powerful efficacy by allowing you from one to
three bottles as a trial. Further particulars
and full terras of allowing trial medicine sent on
application. Address: HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
COMPANY, Tamworth, N.S.W,
Store Cattle for Sale.— looo male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
AND LAMB.
FUBNITURB AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory t
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS)
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Nbwton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting hammock chair,
Patented.
This chair adjnsts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple yet Ingenious In Its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
80s. | without Stand, 255.
Packing In canvas, If required, Ss. Bd. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
Occasional tables in an woods, immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
In Embroidery, Plush, &o. Nbwton & Lamb.
t
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl.
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Fen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Jps-Sv
f9E
Si®
m
mm
■Hk-V
jyp.qjjjr
mt
Drawing room oabi
nets.
imi inun
OnriHDiii dksibuSi
NawfOH ft Limi,
PIANOFOR ( ES by R. LIPP and SOHN.
CARL RONISOH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
\ v^
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Vest Oompibti
Absobtment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bod
rooms. New Designs covered to order In
any material. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, Tor
Invalids and Medical Men.
KOCKINQ EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
pa
"OEDSTKADS, all slees.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
nb lowest rates.
Newton ft Lamb.
ţ
SPRING MATTRBSBE9
(Woven Wire), best
make t also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
18a. Bd. | Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.!
Chests of Drawers, from 10s. j Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.(
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
WTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS. UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show room and Mahuvaokwv i
OFRIWO • O'OOIIIU STREET^


Parkes la old, bub he haa got aome very
young ideas.
Melbourne Corporation Is about to reduce
the city rate from Is. to 91. What is the city
rate in Sydney ?
The aervicea of a duly qualified medical
practitioner can be obtained in England as assis-
tant to a physician in established practise for
“ from £50 to £80 a year and found.”
A poor old newsvendor at Napier (N.Z.)
has just committed suicide because he could not
pay £10 that he owed, and preferred death to
bankruptcy. What a weak man he must have
been—and what a strong man ex-Premier Parkes
must be !
Colonel North, the “Nitrate King, ’ gave
a fancy-dress ball to the Prince of Wales at Lon-
don last month, which cost £8000. Colonel North
ia worth a few millions, all made at the nitrate
mines in South America, and he has just caught
on to the people who will help him to spend it.
A writer on the “Ethics of Cannibalism,”
in the Fortnightly, says that something may be
said for the Mahommedan tl ive-traders of Central
Africa, in that they often break up communities
of inveterate cannibals, and that, once Mahomme-
danised, the negro regards canniba’inn wi.h
horror.
The solitary confinement system of Im-
prisonment frequently reforms criminals—by
turning them into lunatics. Keegan, one of the
Mount Rennie youths, was sent to “ solitary ” in
Berrima and has for nearly a year been a howling
madman at Gladesville Asylum. Another in-
stance of the results of the system is seen in the
case of a book-keeper who lately got ten years in
Sydney for embezzlement. He also has become
insane. It is a monstrous thing to give a man
solitary confinement and a long term of imprison
ment. It is just as irrational as the other Aus-
tralian convict-time fetich—long imprisonment
and a flogging.
CAUTION.
er'
LOOK ODT FOU FRAUDS.
Owing to the success of Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters in curing all
diseases of the Liver, Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Nervousness, Sleeplessness,
and Female Complaints, so that it
has become a standard household
remedy all over the world, and the
immense demand for the original
and genuine article, certain persons
are offering for sale various cheap
and spurious preparations under the
name of “ Hop Bitters ” which do
not contain the medicinal properties
found only in Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.
Take none of the cheap bogus stuff
simply because it is called "Hop
Bitters.”
TRUTHS.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitter* are the
Purest and Best Bitter* ever made.
They are compounded from Hops, Iluchu, Man-
drake, and Dandelion —the oldest, best, and moat
valuable medicines in the world, and contain all th*
best and most curative properties of all other Bitter*,
being the greatest Blood Purifier, Uiver Regu-
lator, and Life and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
No disease or ill health can possibly long exist where
these Bitters are used, so varied and perfect are their
operations.
They give new life and vigor to the aged and in-
firm. To all whose employments cause irregularity
of the bowels or urinary organs, or who require an
appetizer, tonic, or mild stimulant, these Bitters are
invaluable, being highly curative, tonic and stimulat-
ing, without intoxicating.
REMEMBER.
£5OO (Five hundred pounds) will be paid
for any case that Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters will not cure or help.
Bee that each bottle bears genuine
label bunch of green hops on white
paper with black letters.
None other genuine. Take no other.
if
A,
ei
a
11+
&
■ T
O
U,
T
Agents .
OELISSASs PHILLIPS
Bajv&ck Street.
164 King-street, Newtown. Don't forget
hlm B„iU loJfßfewn.re for £8 si. I
Stobe Cattle fob, .Salk —lOOO male and 2000
Baixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
r“na,t Pemell’s Snow-whitb Patbnt Rollbe Floue Is the
biil In th* market. I
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilc-
ens Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
*ue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
■“•—Only two hours from Melbourne.
SBona fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
ven for all kinds of Gent.’a Left off Clothing.
Hu o BUl<m f° r Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Well-Street Melbonr
W WriOe for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
CiwrT ern Australia. Intercolonial Investment
m Pany, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
* Adam Bede's *
Reneyolent (Consultations!
“ All the Ykae Round."
TWENTY TEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
In accordance with the suggestion of the
Sydney Bulletin, “Adam Bede ■’ will devote to
specific public charities three-tenths of his corn-
mis; ion on all sweeps upon four of the great events
of the year, viz : Newmarket Handicap, Austra-
lian Cup, Great Metropolitan Stakes, and Mel-
bourne Cup. In the three sweeps advertised
hereunder and in all sweeps except those above
specified he reserves to himself the light to give a
bonus to charities commensurate wioh the success
of the sweep.
Autumn Handicap,
Run aEHawkesbury, April 13, 1889.
1,55(1 Subscribers at £1 Each. 1,000
First Horse £lOOO
Second Horse ... £6OO
Third Horse £4OO
Starters, £600; Non-starters, £BOO
(to be divided amongst them).
Sydney Gold Cup,
Run at Randwick, April 22, 1889.
10.000 Subscribers at £1 Each. 10,000
First Horse ... £4OOO
Second Horse t £l5OO
Third Horse £lOOO
Starters, £1500; Non-starters, £2OOO
(to be divided amongst them).
Easter Handicap,
Run at Auckland, N.Z , April 22, 1889.
2.000 Snbseribers [at £l Each. 2,000
First Horse £BOO
Second Horse £3OO
Third Horse £2OO
Starters, £300; Non-starters, £4OO
(to be divided amongst them).
ilia Side's is tbs silt fair method ef drawine.
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
trill on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bbdb until after the races have been run.
Subscribers are particularly requested to re-
gister their letters to ensure safe delivery, and
must enclose stamps for reply and result and
add exchange to cheques.
Address
“ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Next Event A DELAIDE CUP (£2000)
May 9lh, 1889.
THE
Cheapest Agricultural Land in Australia 1
Agriculturists \
Market Gardeners /
To
/ Fruitgrowers
\ Poultry Breeders
Farmers and others.
and KING are instructed to Sell the
Greenhills Farms
in subdivision suitable to the requirements of
industrial Farmers.
Blocks of from 5 to 100 acres.
Terms: £1 per Acre Deposit. Balance can remain
for Five Years to Settlers.
For plans and particulars apply to
Boyd & King, Auctioneers,
96 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ATIONAL CLUB.
The COMMITTEE desire to announce that the
NATIONAL CLUB has now been formed as a
POLITICAL and SOCIAL CLUB, in strict con-
nect! jn with, and designed to promote the objects
of the PROTECTIONIST PARTY. The only
Persons eligible for admission are those who profess
PROTECTIVE PRINCIPLES. The following
List gives the Names of the Officers, who were
elected at a General Meeting of Membersireld on
the 13 ah instant: -
President;
HON. W. MACLEAY, M.L.C.
Vice-Presidents :
HON. E. BARTON. M L 0.
WALTER LAMB. Esq.
W. E ABBOTT, Esq.
H. C. WHITE, E:q.
Trustees :
HON. F. B. SUTTOR | DR. J. C. COX.
Auditors :
J. P. WRIGHT, Eaq. | R. SANDS, Esq.
Committee :
L. F, lleydon, Esq. N. F. Giblin, Esq
M. C. Cowllahaw, E»q,
J. De V. Lamb, Esq.
Alex. Martin, Esq.
J. Arthur, Esq.
J. Newton, E q.
M. J. Hammond, E q.
W. H. Armstrong, Esq.
W. Henderson, Esq.
0. B. Lowe, Esq.
T. F. Waller. Esq.
G. Wallace. E q.
T. Davis, Esq.
G. M’Evoy, E q.
Bankers :
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
The List of Original Members has not yet been
closed.
Persons desirous of joining can obtain full par-
ticulars on application to Edwin J. Welch, Act-
ing Secretary, 3, Tattersall’s Chambers, 'Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN
Mutual Proratal Pititly,
ESTABLISHED 184:9-
HEAD OFFICE;
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
J. r. ABBOTT, Esq,, M.P., Chairman.
JAS. R. HILL. Esq., Deputy Chairman.
J. T. WALKER. Em
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LIT PLE JOHN, E q.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Actuary ;
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary :
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
Chief Medical Officer : JAMES C. COX, M.D.
The Society is now in its forty-first year, and is
the only Australian Life Office wh
iKNIJiI BONUSES
Policies in Force, over
Sum assured (with Bonuses) over
Accumulated Funds nearly ...
Annual Income
Cash Bonuses Diviled
Cash Bonus, for one year, 1887
ch gives
80,000
£33 000,000
£B,COO,OCO
£1,500,000
£3 250,000
£357,000
Policies are NOT FORFEITED if the Surrender
Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
~\rORTH QUEENSLAND AGENCY - ,
jy ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE,
adjoining
“ BOOOMERANG ” OFFICE.
Every information concerning land, mining, &c.
given from thoroughly reliable, and specially-
selected Northern Correspondents.
Address : THE MANAGER.
AGENTS WANTED, in good country dis-
tricts for the Sale of City, Suburban and
Country Lands. Can make good commissions.
“ Land,” care of Box 241, G.P.O.
Sydney.
LANGFORD & CO.’S
TASMANIAN
CONSULTATIONS.
Australian Cup,
Run at Flemingfon, March sth, 1889.
500 MEMBERS. 500
TICKETS £l, TICKETS £l.
First Horae ... .. £250
Second Horse £lOO
Third Horse £5O
Starters (divide) £5O ; Non-starters (divide) £5O.
Less 10 ner cent, commission. Acceptances only
taken (25).
Address: Langford &, GO., Theatre
Royal Hotels Hob3rt-
ISfT Subscribers are requested to forward P.O.
Order payable to LANGFORD & CO , including
postage.
To be drawn SATURDAY, March 2, at
Theatre Royal Hotel. To follow—L ANGFORD
and CO.’s CONSULTATION on Melbourne Cup,
1000 Members. Tickets £l,
WESTERNAUSTRAIIA,
A FUTURE FORTUNE FOR A SMALL
PRESENT OUTLAY.
THE Colony of Western Australia is rapidly
advancing towards the position at present
occupied by New South Wales and Victoria ; and
persons purchasing land there now, will reap the
same enormous profits that early purchasers of
Sydney and Melbourne lands have done
REMEMBER, an opportunity ones lost, may
never present itself again. So do not delay, but
send at once and PURCHASE A BLOCK OF
LAND that in a few years will prove the BEST
BARGAIN you ever invested in.
MOORE PARK ESTATE,
PERTH
IN THE CITY, within about 400 yards of HAY
STREET —the principal business thoroughfare—
in Allotments 40ft frontage by 132 ft deep. ONLY
£2O PER LOT, on Very Easy Terms.
FANCY an Allotment in Oxford-street or
George-street West, Sydney, for £2O, and yet,
here you have an opportunity of purchasing in a
position which must become of equal, if not
greater, value.
Also,—
WOOLLAHRA ESTATE,
ALBANY,
GRAND BLOCKS of 1 acre each with useful
frontages, not a useless block with a few feet
frontage and a great depth, but winh 198 feet
frontage to a GOVERNMENT RO AD by a
depth through of 220 feet to a street at rear, and
a side frontage of 198 feet to another street,
making useful blocks for speculative purposes, as
they can be re-subdivided to advantage, and the
prices are from £2O to £35 per block, payable on
easy terms,
TITLE—“ OIK TOBICGK&.”
A FREE DEED To’eVERY PURCHASER.
SEND AT ONCE for PLANS of the above
ESTATES wbioh will be posted anywhere free of
cost together with our printed pamphlet on
Western Australia.
T. TATE <& 00.,
185 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The RECOGNISED AGENTS for Western
Australian lands generally,
[Kindly mention this paper.]
BAD, MARK, LEARN.
Far-seeing men who know somewhat of the
wonderful development of the Eastern Colonies
during the last few years will tell you that ere
long Western Australia will be one of the
wealthiest of Australian colonies.
Everyone should send for a Plan of the
PADDINGTON ESTATE, PERTH,
Westeen Austbalia, close to the City.
Good Land. Well situated.
LARGE LOTS ONLY £lO BACH.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms, or Discount for
Cash.
BEST ALLOTMENTS ARE SELLING
RAPIDLY.
(They Cannot be Replaced at the Pbiob.
Good Building Sites on the Paddington Estate
are now obtainable at ridiculously low prices, but
now that Responsible Government has been
granted to the colony and the coal and gold mines
are proved to be extensive and rich, Western
Australia will forge ahead rapidly, and property,
especially in and around the Capital City, will
greatly increase in value.
THERE IS NO TIME LIKE THE PRESENT.
BUY BEFORE THE SURELY COMING
BOOM.
Marked plans, pamphlets, Ac., posted to any
address on application to the
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO., Ltd.,
96 Bathcbst Stkeet, Sydney.
W. j”OUGLAS. Manager.
1
(Late of Sayvjcll’s Tobacco Co,),
Wholesale and Retail
TOBACCONIST,
532 George Street
(Opposite TOWN HALL),
SYDNEY.
RTHUR D. SPALDING,
HOMOEOPATH, ALLOPATH,
HERBALIST,
35 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET).
I have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and women
without the aid cf nauseous drugs so to
the system and so objectionable to the palate. I
will guarantee a
COMPLETE CURE IN A FEW DAYS,
or will refund the money. Now what can be
fairer for both parties ?
The time is over when, it was necessary
to use substances nauseous, such as Copaiba
and Cubebs, by which so many evils were
caused. Tho diseases alluded to above are, as any
sane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (bs I will prove) be cured by local treat-
ment, without the use of any Caustic, Styptic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &c,
I will not make you call constantly so as to pay
several fees. My terms are One Charge Only, or
NO CURE NO PAY.
Up country resident! treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
communications treated as strictly confidential.
Private Consulting Rooms and Laboratory,
35 BLIGH STREET.
Hours 10 to 12 ; 2 to 4, and 7 to 9 p.m.
Robert butcher * oc.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Bjlrlb Business to
692 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES,


.Business Announcements.
BARBERS’
SUPPLY
HOUSE.
Hairdressers
ABOtTC
COMMENCING BUSINESS,
AS WILL AS THOSI
Already Established,
WILL FIND A*
CRAIG & AITKEN’S
NEW SuUTH WALES
Barbers’ Supply
HOUSE,
SHAMPOOING APPARATUS,
American and Colonial Hairdressing Chairs,
SCISSORS, COMBS, BRUSHES,
Mirrors, Hot Water Urns,
AND
m ITERT REQIISITN *Mfe
AS 0
raiCES WHICH DEFY comfetitioni
Agents for the Celebrated
‘PLUM’
BRAND Of
Razors <6 Scissors.
COMPLETE
Saloon Outfit
£lO UPWARDS.
ASSISTANTS ENGAGED
Town and Country Customers.
Noti Addarbs—
Craig & Aitkon,
New South Wales
Barbers Supply
HOUSE,
682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
KP Phiob List Posted on Application,
A n ugly rumour is currer t as to the genuine-
ness of the candidature, for one cf the New
South Wales constituencies, of a well-known aspi-
rant for public fame. He “ came out ” as a Pro-
tectionist, whilst being, it is alleged, in the employ
of the Freetrade candidate In a confidential
capacity, the object of his nomination being to
insure the return of the Foreign-trader by splitting
the Protectionist votes.
A Lovblt and Dblioatb Complexion. —This la ob
tallied by using Rowlands' Kaltdor, an emollient and
harm less milk for the face, hands, and arms; it remove
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands'
articles.
Old Pori, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Ronslllen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, Ac. Unequalled Hlgh-claaa Wines are
only to be had from Hock in as of 110 Georg e-itreet, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
E. C. ELEY
ť
ŧ
t
t
O'
A
<y
&
o
.V*
*
v-
v
0
0>
-vr
D
O
v
£
O'
*
4?
o*
V*
# v
o
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY,
A newspaper-correspondent points out that
East Sydney, “the stronghold of Free-trade,” in
reality returned four Protectionists. For Mr.
Reid is protected as a barrister by all the restric-
tions that lodge round his profession ; Mr. Street,
as a shareholder in the Kerosene Co., by a duty of
<>i. per gallon (or per cent) on that oil;
M’Million by the regulations of the Warehouse-
men’s Association; and lastly, the intellectual
Burdekin is promoted up to his forelock, as a
landlord, by the law of distraint for rent,
William's Australian inaeotlotd la death ta all lueali.
Simple In application—enre In elfeot. Ihli la the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of Insects, while It Is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be need without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mcsquiioa
especially, the Insecticide has no eqnal—as the fames of
the barnt powder, while throwing oil a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
la. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, J 67 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs KUletl Brea,
and 1. Prosser & Co.*
Jg2o BVCKBOAKD BUGGIES
Regular shipments of the Best Backboard
Buggies In the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 z Bln. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Backboards with pole,
&0., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works In
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms: Cash t or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road. Brisbane (South).
KITTEN BIBQ fc 0 O.T
• IMPORTERS,
81 CLARENCE STREET, WTNIABD SQUARE.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
■O. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
it
Execute Indents lor all Eastern Produce,
AND PAY
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
+ !+: +
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms.
Tones’ IL£siclb.ln.€ s,
TOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FAUEIGH, NETTBSIU & Co,, Tanners and leather Merchants,
16 Y 0 R K BIRE E T, SYDH E Y.
__ Bole Agenta foe the above for New Booth Wales and Queensland. —■
o
Alio Importen of Beqoleltee for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all Details, Including Machinery.
Imported Leathers, ftp. i and of the following Special Line* j PEERLESS GLOSS, BATIN POLISH,
NUBIAN BLACKING. Tawrs Tool* and Utterialr. fadewts iiieuted o* Vavourabli Terms
DR. RICHARDS.
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Ohiel
Sturgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education In the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly invertl-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
Insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving ■ faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence In their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment In the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, Irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
dlsoontentedness, weakness or pains In the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises In the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful Is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, Impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of id. In
■tamps he will send secure from observation In a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE OLOTH- BOUND
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private oi
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well Its general Informa-
tion and prescription may assist you In restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced Incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONI POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination Is sometimes dan-
gerous, It would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly In your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
courteously, a candid and straightforward
orAnlon of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medioal
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
In the volume will be found a list of carefully pre-
pared questions, which will, In all propabillty,
assist yon materially In describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards nses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by firs,
and patients may rest assured that their oases will
■■main a secret between the doctor and themselves-
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,001
eases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of hie success. All eommunlea-
Umm ekould be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
f Spring Street, Sydney
tM Pill Street North).
Ba aura to maution ihis rnpar whan utrUiuti
CON 9Vlfi T 1 OS fBM Mi
DSRICHARDS
YOUNG MEM
BOOK.
COULDN’T BE MORE SO.
Miss Emeline : “And so Caroline is engaged, eh? Is she going to marry rank?”
Miss A NGELINA : “Yes, very rank—a duke, I believe.”—LIFE


Bniineu Announcements.
EPPS’S
Grateful—Comforting
COCOA
Medical.
More than 70,000 Oases already Onred 1
•ssssmst}
«-•
{ A " srszsr*
Hr. EL E. BMEUUIBi Cnnltiv Eclectic,
ffglT.T.aD SPBOIAMST FOB ALL CHRONIC DISBASBS,
«• WUHAH STREET. MELBOURNE.
Any auflerera unable to oall oan write for a Hat of ques-
tions (?rbe) by which they oan be treated equally well at
■ny distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’e treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. It
rou are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
Obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost lor a
aomplete cure. Tou oan then have treatment or not, as
yon may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
o, Bea/the following Testimonial, one of thousands motel
[COPT.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1888!
IS H. B. Kuoblmahn, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, 60.
Dear Sir,—This Is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
Of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
Igap, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, 1 did not
any notice of it for about six' months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and 1
went Into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although 1 failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
surable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
Kotorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
age, and 1 lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did In March, 1886, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which 1 gladly availed myself of. After having taken you*
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
Skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis 1 commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
I result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
tlma (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
•re as strong as ever they were, and I oan do as good and
•s hard a day’s work as 1 ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
dlf.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK B. S.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. O. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this Gth day of August, 1880, at
Kyneton,—THOMAS A, EWING, J.P.
MT All Consultations Frew. El
Notice.— lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Oosi is Incurred In the event of Odbi
■o» lima Efpsotsd.
fJIO SUFFERERS.
CONSULT PERSONALLY OB BY LBTTIB
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS.
ON alt. chronic diseases.
X :X
THEY Treat and dare all Ohbonio, Nervous;
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE.
x :x
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all oases,
S.B.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely packed, to dU parts of the Colonies.
Note the Address :
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary,
181 Blialetli Stmt, Ida M, Syiney.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 63 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
*nd all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained In any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established Agencies In all parts
of the Globe, he is In a position to oondnot all In-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all bnslness entrusted
*o his care.
Business transacted In four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 63 Sydney Arcade.
far the Deaf.— Nicholson's Patented Ait
■ical Bab Dbdhs. Onrea Deafneaa In all Ita atagaa. Iha
B * OM Mtonlahlng onrea have been effected. Bend for 181
Hged iUuetrated book containing " Eaaay on Deafneaa, ’
wtratlona of the Drama, oopiee of patent paper*, letter*
D * ot,ir *. Lawyer*, Editor*, ate., wha have been
b * thaaa Drama, and wha laeammaad lham.—Df
"ONomom, •• WiaaiAM •aibnraec
t HOTEL,
00BH1B Of
MART AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE. *^|
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
iM
AH
m
CCStIUJVi
i»0 v
ijxHof
WI
*
(MKwnv
Jt-
Ladies l Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D, COSGROVE (Late of Lennon'i Hotel)
Pboprutriss.
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
ť
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
FOR PRIVATE USB is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground ; set ready for use.
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price—Single Razor,
10s. Bd. ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Gas?, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, Potosl Hair Cntting Saloon,
Nine Haircutters always Employed!
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
t
NEW BiLOARO TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTOR!
SIMJABD OTSHIOHSo te s MADE OK THE PREMISES.
®M Tables by ®ux> own mesa.
«tock,als© CEICKET, LAWN TENITIg&IfWm
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
OleireELcLoia. Hotel, lv£a.n,l3r.
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
4 T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
A. Berved on the shortest notice In the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
tinner, you can enloy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country j
lere also you can have good company, good wines —in fact, everything that can i os 4ibly make- one
wmfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic arti 3ir a vided. Table
It HMe at 1 o'clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstkb to make her
rl liters comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
LEA & PERRI NS'SAUCE
Jn of Imitations WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UC Eiwhich 'Recalculated_ to 'deceivefhi 'Public, fea arid ' Perrins
have to request that that the' bottli
bears y their thus— ( ——-
\ without v>hicfcn*tbot(le of .the? original WOR'CESfERSJIIRi
'SAUCEjis ; genuine ,
fAsk/crLEA and PERRINS 'Saucer arid see on'Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. J, Wholesale and for j. Export |by * theJPropnetors, Worcester ;4. Crosse and
Blackwell, Lqndon, &re., (re.; and by Grocers and Oilmen' throughout the World.
AUC
V PC PR I
LIOHTNER & KILBURN,
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic x Stock m Importers,
Kate Llchtner A Co., a;i O'Connell Street.
T lOHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission into partnership of Mr. D. C. KILBURN, and removal into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. SlBa GEORGE STREET, -Between
Hunter Street and the Genekai,' Post Office—trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage In the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavous to still deserve their
kind attention in the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 A GEORBE STREET, SYDNEY.
Assurance Companies.
t h ;
AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAOB*
MINI ASSURANOB and INVBSTMBMT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Ineirpirated bp Act of Parliament, IV Tie.,
No. IB.)
Registered Capital
Fald-np and Subscribed
w SI.HMII
M MBS. III
Sir BDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman,
ARTHUR BLACKBT, Bsq.. F.1.A., Depilf*
Chairman.
This Company receive* deposits at the following
rates of Interest
For 8 years _ T per cent.
Fob 8 month! I pet oent.
rei 1 jreu •p ai «eaB.
Fo» 8 rnentki- I pai Mat.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under bha corporate aeal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upward!,
Loans granted on Mortgage lor fixed terms and
loans repayable by Instalments.
ifONBY ADVANCED - FOB BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Bents, ete M Collected.
Estates Bnb-dlvlded and Sold by Auetioa and
Private Contract.
Hud Onisi—ll, aTuHUNTEB STREET
JNoTdT NBILD, Manager.
Hotels.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Pkopkietob.
COMLEY’S HOTEL,
EMU PARK,
ROCKHAMPTON.
EHED. OOMLEY, Proprietor.
Acknowledged the finist hotel on
the Coast, Overlooking the Bay, with
every convenience. Dining Hall 60 x 40.
Conveyance meets Every Train.
JMPERIAL HOTEL
. EMU. PARK,
William Toon ... Proprietor.
This :Eireit-clasB Hotel, close to Beach, has every
accommodation. Shower and Plunge Bath. Good
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits only Stocked. WILLIAM TOON.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street East.
This Well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every Convenience. Centrally
situated.
BnelnsM Annannaanaanttu
KING’S V J EWS
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLAN OAVES, BLUB MOUNTAINS.
.i, . - &o , &0., .. . I
315 6EOSBE BT., Betnen gunttr-at., 16. P 0.
WATTERSALL’B
xmm comiriiiim -
Are open npon all the Principal Racing Event!
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
" Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
" Evening News." Address, " TattersaU's," care
of George Adams, TattersaU’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
r
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies' and Gentlemen's
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair,
NOTE the address-
-08 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from 0.P.0., next to Colonial Bank).
MELBOURNE.
FOB BALI.— Two grand Wales Frontages,
Parramatta and Lan* Oevs Blvsss. Apple,


ows
'■EMBROCATION
:
m
\SOLD
I^EVERXWHERE^I
mm
JJIBBLE & COMPANY,
SICtM WBITEBR
AND
—ART ++ DECORATOR B—
-96 CastEereagh Street.
Onb Doob from King Stbkbt.
B
ROU’S INJECTION,
HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs
Sold in Paris by
J - FERRDB3,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
ŧ
Weak Back, Pain and Weak-
ness across the Kidneys, Shooting
Pains through the Loins, Lack of
Strength and Activity, instantly re-
lieved and speedily cured by the new
process. Apply by letter. Box 1081,
G.P.0., Sydney.
r EJ-
H Q
otai
poW
* *
„SY
i a b
BOWDENS HBOwnfit
HOlti
BOWDEN’S H OTBL,
Elizabeth Street (near Hunter St.). Sydney.
JOSEPH C. BOWDEN ■ • Proprietor
LONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
Toowoomba,
Acknowledged tbe best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation, Private
Suites, First-class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
AUSTRALIAN
souk nous mills & ssiis Stores,
QR AKYILLB.
BRUNTOFS
Royal Patent Steel Roller
and Imperial Stone
can he obtained from principal
Makers and Storekeepers in Syd-
ney and Country.
FLOURS
HILL PRODUCE ALWAYS IN STOCK.
We are CASH BUYERS of Prime MIuLING
jWHEAT in any Quantity.
.' 'Sydney Office : 34 Pitt Street.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Company, Limited.
NCORPORATBD UNDER COMPANIES ACT, 1872.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Sydney Office:
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices—2B3, Collins Street East,
(next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at vei y reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS;
3 months, 5 per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months,
2 per cent. 6 months; per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors,
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
’S “MAGIC ME A L,”
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
Stock and Poultry.
Extracts from testimonials
G. S. Yeo, Esq., Mularrave Stud Farm, near Windsor :
"I tried the ‘Magic Meal’ on a horse bad with worms
and he seems to be improving fast.”
Mr. H Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon: "
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my oows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition. ’’
Robt. A. Hill, Esq., Butterbone, Macquarie River: “ I
tried the ‘ Magic Meal ’ on a horse which would not fatten,
and now he is in grand condition. ... I consider it
of especial value, as it saves horse eed.”
Sold in Bags — 7lbs. 35., Iftbs. ss. 6d., 56lbs.
ISs. 6d., and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0,
Parcels of 561b5., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Castlekbaoh Street,
SYDNEY.
ROONEY & Co,,
SAW-MILLERS,
limber Milts, iid Steam Joiesn,
TOWNSVILLE.
LARGEST STOCK of OREGON PINE and
Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &o, in
Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a speciality.
Country & Station Orders promptly despatched.
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
t
PIPES
Thu Bust In tho World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS)
Mn UseUt & Ci,
83 CLARENCE STREET
• •
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE < -i V
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT JjjE COLONY
BovrkeS t
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PASS
EVERY FEW MINUTES
ass
IfII I
' I ILJi
at
■
H if.-
T3XOH 3DV1Vd
s
8A@M
m
3i
J.A.WILSOIM
PROPRIETOR
G.W.CLARE
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
, • : IS
NOW OPEN.
THIS flue Hotel, which, has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Fixed Lavatory Basin, Hot and Cold Water, and Shampoo Spray.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious Modern Style, and not to he equalled in ft
Hotel in the Colonies.
Mr TWO PASSENGER OTIS LIFTS. Tt
LADIES’ BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
Termsi JINGLE BEDBQQM, 2s. Si. per HUST
/ Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of
I using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.
I3T MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
§ HOTEL,
LAUMCESTOI, TASMANIA.
wm™ * .'vftMK
rl , ,■
v- •
V ,
Ctr.
>%»»>"£ Hgf
w I;
■
’*» M f
luyiu PmUOtMA. tt, I IMMi"**"
A. DEiiKUSJS ..
Proprietor.
PIBST-CLASS HOUSE,
Win:, Fmtii Liqten I Sims Ci»m t Militt SU Bom. Cuisine Francaisi,
LOVELY S
N.
fcaontttnl complexion. soft, smooth and delicate neck, face, hsand* and uni can tes*t tes obtMMtlJ
t-y discarding ail leaden and greasy cosmetic* and cheap soapa, which, mot Mu* aiIOWCB \T
-(rental the sMto cannot possibly haw any good effect on It. and by mates
ftpwlanda
a JCalydor
f' 'rnitef, soothing, healing and refreshing preparation for the fane, hand* and arm* of *®
fctpoied w> the heat and dost of rammer or Inn cold and damp of winter, it eradicate* deckle*,
(lam. snnhnrn, stings. redness and roughness of the skin caused by cold winds or the use of harm
.water, remotes pimples, spots, discolorations, chilblains, eczema, etc., rellotes inflammation,
Pi urns, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully smooth anffl
pleasant. Gentlemen after sharing will And it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin ;
h 1* warranted free from any lead or mineral Ingredient*, can be need with Impunity on thin
ckln of the most delicate lady or child, . ...... _ ,
«*. Ad. and 9s. «d,. pair hottl*; teottl.ee cfl MM the
oUeatSs. Jd.,
ROWLANDS 1 MACASSAR OIL promotes the growth ofl the hair, ®a£
ll also sold tn a golden colour for fair-haired people. £
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, prwente decay, sad JS*®*
pleasing fragrance to the breath- Ask anywhere for BOWLAKM" srthdMi se SB, BlffilWC 1
Tvarimk London, and ayollifi olhe«». wmrtihleat SmltoMeaa,
Wboleule Md B«teil Bbot, ud S, Pboubi ft 00.. Bfdß«f


Hotels.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOUBI
SVffoam Railway Tbbminds, Spenobb Stbebt.
CTIBITORS patronising the above hotel, which
Y has lately had Ml Addition of over 199 rooms,
®ffl find .11 modern improvements, rath m light,
tsSty, And well-ventilated bedrooms, luge pnelic-
.aaoax, 4ttofcingrrpqm, hot and told bathe, shower
-asd needle baths passenger elevator, electric balls,
telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not to be
aaspaased im Anearalla. Visitors san rely sjcson
iiaiag called iae -.atly morning trains. Letters
««d telegrams fesumptly attended to. Prices very
.asoderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner s>nd Proprietor.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
{Between George aad York Streets.) F.O. Bex 810. Dr)
3yaer. Is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, C.B. (lor ee»9rmatlon see Hew Sealand
flarette, January list, 1886 { also New Sentli Wales
Hantte, April ITth, 1868). Che doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NBRYOUS. AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Pour of these were in the leading
iMpltala o! the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
He experimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive rare in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
4100. Els reason for doing so is this—when there is no
Organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
la ether words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
• aertaln result, there Is no reason why it cannot be re-
saved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes It distinctly understood that he does not claim
ie perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
is claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed In his speciality—CHßONlC akd
SPECIAL DISEASES or MEN and WOMEN. People
{•Siding at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home, she course of treatment will
Mt In any way Interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Chargee! moderate. H. J.
9ms, M.D., 4S Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Poet Office Box, No. BSD. Office hoots,
II a.m. to II a.m. | Sto 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
11 le 11 a.m only
FREE
we to
be found In the “BIGHT AND
HFE," (or the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DE-
BILITY uid Kindred Diseases, fto. A copy of
Ala book will be aeut Free, sealed, (or Six Fenny
itamps. Address—
B. WARD ft 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
78 Hunter Street Sydney.
mj-BSMBEIO, MAGNETIC, and ELECTRIC
Wl INSTITUTE, 177 Liverpool street (facing
Hyde Park), Sydney, under the sole management
ofD*. St. VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
Clairvoyant of 29 years’ practice in Europe and
America, and 4 years Medical Adviser for the
American Remedy Company. All Diseases
Cubed, chronic or otherwise, by a New Mode of
Treatment peculiarly known to Dr. St. Vincent
only. his motto being :—“ Nature cures Nature’s
iccay.” Cancers, Tumors, &c., painlessly and
positively cured, without cutting, in from three to
four days. Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides him-
self In being the only person known in the world
who will undertake to cure a Cancer of the
longue without Surgical Operations of any kind;
la fact, the Doctor guarantees to cure All Diseases
Incidental to suffering humanity, even .when all
Other treatment and advice has proved a failure.
Candid, the Doctor will undertake no case where
he cannot guarantee a complete cure. N.B.—•
Where medicine is used, Dr. St. Vincent dis-
penses his own. This is a surety that you get
nothing but the genuine article. A Fact- —This
la the only Institution of its kind in the World
where all Kinds of Cures are Effected with little
m no medicine.
Please Copy the Address—
DR. ST. VINCENT,
Iff Liverpool Street (facing Hyde Park), Sydney.
Eucalypte Oil-a
r^r.
33)
tun jo 3hx
IP
' '*■>. )
VICTORY OINTMENTS
4V* Vka •nljr Par« Encalypte In the Werld.
A WARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jnbllee
*3L Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
wolds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with
OS* a rival fori Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
wmnours, and Skin Diseases of all kinds. Also,
Manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Encalypte
«alr Restorer, Encalypte Soap, -and our world-
»*med Encalypte Honey is the best preparation
®wore the public for young children and aged
people. Also, makers of the'Euealypte Lozenges
*o* the Voice. Manufactory— Oootamondba.
aydney Wholesale Depot—227 Ehzabbthbtbkkt.
gpsted to any part of the Colonies. Bold Every-
Beware of Imitations.
Announcements,
V-**S
u
rnmmrmim
#j|IfOATCA& 9F
Hjiij A~iiV» —• ---J*
hatscapsj?
%
th JLa*»ei&nj
Branch •
678 G*OR6E STEE E;.T,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Oraig and Aitkens.)
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS. ASD
OTHERS.
480,0052 I® Land.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPEETSIi,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIBLD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, BMtoft.
and Financial Agenda, Sharebrokers, 9® Fill
street, Sydney.
IO7BHIBI SSHEST
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Doloekux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Faina when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days !
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 5a., and 10s.
CUBE FOB BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H, A, ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
SSI George Street, Only 0
JU ST* ; PUBLI 8 H I B t
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For Its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight la
gold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bbuktik,
3 Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ*
4ERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
a advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
carter, or One Found per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sa e every Friday at
«he office, George Street, or from the runners in
'■be-street.
THE ORIGINAL
:;/■ ■>
AN
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD *
OR
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
aS?V-
I5THE BEST IMTHE WORLD!!!
NONE OTHER BUT _J
WAUGH’S j
RECEIVEDTHE INTERNATIONAL ||
PRIZE MEDAL -f
Manufactured byJamesCmnnon
Harbour S t Sydney
Sold by All CrocersandSbreReeper*
Medical.
a WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
iEECHAM’S PILLS
ip
PATENT
H
PILLS
&
$
4?
3
Am mdrmxSLy ad-
mitted to be worth
& Guinea a Box for
BiJioo* and Herron*
Disorder* such a*
Wind and Paid in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
n ess and SwejJing
after ke*i« t Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Ooid Ohilla, Flushing*
of Heat, Loea of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath. Cootireness,
Scurry and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Herrons and Tremb-
©smeations, <tc. The tort dose will fire relief
Sa fosaty minute#.
SSvsry sufferer la earnestly invited to try one
'fe3B thesa Pill# and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Bte Ssmales of ail ages these Pill# are invariable,
ESS a Sew doses of them carry off all humour#* and
Ifefeg about ail that is required. No female should
ko tyfesnt them. There i« no Medicine ts be found
to Seecham’s Pill# for removing %&j’ obstruc-
sap irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
flteg to the directions given with each box, they
w»e®ck restore females of all ages to xrad and
s«S®3t health. This has been proved by thousands
wSvs have tried them, and found the benefit# which
ES3 SJasKHKi by their use.
Ste a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digertim, and all
of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few a©2®o will be found to work wonders on the moat
teages’tent organs in the human machine. They
stesagthea the whole muscular system, restore the
lea® last complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
X. health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Pacts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BXBOHAM’S PILLS have the Largeet Sm# ang
S’nimi Medicine in the World.
Beaoham’s Magic Cough Fills.
As m remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Breaohlal Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Sraeth, Tightness and Oppression of the Chert,
Wheesia s, 4c., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
cro the best over offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffl.
Salty at breathing, which nightly deprive the
®b&«b4 of rest. Let any person give BBBSCMAM’S
OOLSH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Ckrugh
win s® a short tune be removed.
only, and sold Wholesale and Brtail, by
fSa® Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helaaa, Lea-
seaMr*., England, in boxes Is. ltd, and 3s, ML each,
3kwS by all Druggists and Patent Medietas
ISsaßssf® everywhere.
full directions are given with each ks®.
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Bbanohes:
84 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained .on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager. „
•r-L'rr-
conquers dtsbasi
The Successful Treatment of
.fiMBV&UB and SPECIAL DISEASES
.%Mordlng to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
3I« Moa* MEROUR.Y ob otheb Noxiob®
Stomaohio Contaminations.
Hr. T. C. WHISHT,
M. 8., Oh. M., Sea.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Sidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
Ky qualified practitioner advertising in Australia wbe
the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, hat
established the
“ ftetorlM Progressive Medical Institute,*
IS, TLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE;
fsv the eolentifio and effectual ours of all phases of Net
yens Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Ssupilons, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affee
Mens, Benito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If It Is curable, he
will tell you so i It not, he will tell yon also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he Is confident of effecting a
sure, i It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
vents VT that the Dr. understands your ease.
asar; —-
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE,
cutovers san be treated equally well at a distance,
H. 8.—1 wish It distinctly understood that I do not olaln
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
8 elaim only to be a skilled and successful Physician
Ikereughly Informed in my speciality.
Note Address™
noniiun mm ihiiioh,
58, Fhndbbb Btbbbt W.„ Mubohbnh,
MT JT« connection with any other Medical Institute in
Australia Box Sfiß, 0.P.0.
FOR BALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Oove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
Business Announcements.
fulness's Extra Stoat
FIRST QUALITY.
mL
%
m
MU"
L*Aot
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLS PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
Balchin, Johnston and Go.,
Oenaaereial Gkanbeni Bond-Street* Sydney
P
'•-KUFACTURING HATTfkS
GEORGE STREET
Sydney:
J PORTERS OF All THE
1E WEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT BRISBANE.
D" RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Hu an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into th#
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
BR.RIBGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
«-**•• -m mi..— • ■ MBAiUiejSRlMg-IJfflSWi
C. STEPHENSON
BAS ON BALK—
WINE OASES. BREWERS’ OASES, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, ft; WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS STABLE
BUCKETS, tea
COOPERAGE,
187 EBNT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market Streets
W ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Makes.,
296 PITT STREET.
MARQUEES ON HIEF.
gRiiILAS
REMOVE R£&
S’
t V DY EQO;
f-*d
Sf»»• CtntarJl* Yre*6& |g|
stTvcred, Mid yowi
fhuraalfo re-lined tad
to .New. »■:
J. SULLIVAN
Ml Georss Stand
Srtckflald HU '
*Ut«rpool swd- Ba|
jponiola toads to
team. sUpa«™
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NBA*
* 1: iai i * W: AND WELL.” rt- 3
D BERNARD’S Piottjeb cad Mous-ms®
® SfOßl, 889 Saorge-street {opposite Royal
Hotel), la ?«kisow!odged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Ingravings,
&c., carefully stretched and mounted. Re gilding
equal to sew. Mounts ant with seal gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
IFI PBBSBBVATIOH
Dl. J. D. BEEWELByN,
Specialist,
10 &OBBDAIB SffiBBBS lASS, MlißOßili
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, Us*'
dlscretrons and other enervating influences witH
|helr associated evils.
Specially addressed to yonng men with advlaa
on health, and replete with valuable and tanglbli
Information that is of incalculable use to aZS
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and OoXf
fidentlal Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid c£
quacks.
Price per mall Ss. Bd. (any colonial stamps). ■«
be had of all booksellers or the Otto PubUshlnfi
00.. 4 A'Beckett Street West, Melbourne.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON UADI
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30c. to 21c.
*49 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Near TatterMll’s.)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather.
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight!
msimk «
MASON BROTHERS,
(UMITIED,)
263 TO 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T.- G A YEN’S
Schnapps’and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Al«.
IMPORTER OF
WI3STHIS, SPIRITS, BBBBS Sc C., So 0,
George and Glpps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
Kf The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. t3T All B-ands of Colonial Wlnss.
The leading brands of Bottled Alb and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
-! :!■
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney,
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
*r
•m
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' REFRESHMENT ROOM anil LAVATORY
GIPPS STREET (opposite A, Hordern & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND "
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S
Blaclr Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
ro>
DOSSES, CATTLE S ML
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Sean.
▲warded SILVER MEDAL. SYDNEY, Im.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing lor FRHBB
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GIRTH GALM,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER ORAOK, ITOH and MANGBt
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS.
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Onlf fey
J. Behan & 00., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Bedfern.
Wholesale:
Elliott Bros., Aostrallan Drag Go., S. Hotmsa®
and 00.. J. Brash, Son and Co., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Batter Bros..
Wynyard Square, Sydney j Sparks and Fewee,
Eagle Street, Bbisbanb; E. Fletohos, Jbbb.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
j, behan, T. 8., 33 Pitt Street, Badfamy
PRICE ... Ss. 6d . Per Some.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Starakaspwn.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND 01NTMEH1.
There is not a country in the oiivlleed world when
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have net baea
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficient action Is at OSSS
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied lor thefe 38S
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Mesa-
factored only at 78 N*w Oiford-st., London. AST Far.
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Fats.
If tha address is not 528 Oxford-street; London, they an
spurious.
INSPECT THE SWEET
2
ii
URG
•> . *
▲I THI
Wertheim
SEWIN6 MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
V I C T O R X A..
MELBOURNE
II
If
Richmond
Winpsob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
stawell
EOHUGA ...
BEECH WORTH
HAMILTON
W A RRN AMBOOL
SALE
MARYBOROUGH
Head Office s 44 Lonsdale Street Bast, near Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke street.
59 Swaaston Street, opposite Town Hall.
... ... Swan Street. *
... ... Chapel Street.
... ... Sturt Street.
... ... Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
... ... 56 Moorabool Street.
... ... Main Street, next Aesohlmann's.
... ... High Street.
... ... Camp Street.
... ... Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
... ... Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
THE
Wolseley Sheep She
PABTOEALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
ASSEMTRi
T. lE£. 0-E3DID3BS Oo„,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man’s Watch. Made suitable for Hard Riding and Bough Wear and specially
rated for the cl imate. Supercedes all other English Levers ever introduced into this market .
ET TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY.
Wholesale Agents ,
WOLFF. ABEL & CO.. 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
Perdrlau Oo«,
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Babbet Vaivbb, Washebs, Gaskets fto., &o. Moulded to any Blse, Rubber goods fo* all powpcsi*
lists and Samples on Application.
AMERICAS WALTHAM WATCHES.
______ U
W* «
fi
t ':,^r.’< <
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
■HP
«r Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed,
: y
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horologies! art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents colling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s ” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are cinstructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected In
any part of the world whore Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S. A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Oases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for aocuraey of “ming, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance ofdesign and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies' Watches, “No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horologloal
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made. _
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian Slate Railways, and a 1 the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
. Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Walth am Split sbodnhtb Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
s
&
<o
N,
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
“ Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY. ® '
