

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
At the Melbourne Centennial International Exhibition, 1888-9, the American Waltham Watch
Company obtained the PIUBT AWARD for their New Non-Magnetic Watches.
The following Report is by the Chairman of the Jury on Horology at the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, wherein the First Award for the Waltham Non-Magnetic Watches is recommended
“WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY. — Non-Magnetic Watches. —Having obtained further information and the results of some good practical tests of some non-magnetic watches of this
exhibit I have now the honour to report further upon it. Question having arisen as to similarity of the balance of this watch and that of Palliard’s, the exhibitors obtained the opinion of an expert,
who examined one of the Waltham Non-Magnetic Watches, as well as one of Rotheram’s Watches with Palliard’s non-magnetic balance. This expert (Mr. Kahan) reports as follows ‘ I have received
I from Messrs Robert Beeston and Co,, agents for the Waltham Watch Company, a non-magnetic watch, for the purpose of reporting to you whether the same is identical with those known as Palliard
r and Co.’s. I have examined watch No. 3,292,923, lever escapement, keyless (Riverside). The balance (bi-metallic compensated), hair-spring (Breguet), lever, pallets, and ruby roller, are made of such
metals that are not liable to become magnetised, and consequently these watches are well adapted for the purpose for which they are made. The balance and hairspring are not identical with those
known as Palliard’s. ’
“ The exhibitors have also forwarded to me a report from Captain Joseph, who carried one of these watches with him while occupied about the dynamos in the electric lighting department. This
report is as follows ‘At first the watch had a gaining rate of 30 seconds per day. After wearing it for some days, and finding this rate fairly constant, the watch was used in timing tests of dynamos.
The rate then changed to 90 seconds per day, losing. I then regulated it so as to bring it to a gaining rate of 20 seconds per day. This being constant for six days ; the watch was again used in the
dynamo-room, and without affecting the rate. I have worn it constantly, and it has been brought several times in contact with dynamos at work, having a magnetic field which I think would have
ruined an ordinary movement; but its rate still remains gaining about 20 seconds per day.’
“I have also a report of a series of careful experiments with one of these watches from Mr. R. C. Fletcher, engineer in charge of electric light instalment, the result of which shows that these watches,
after being laid on the poles of the large dynamos at work for one or two minutes, and afterwards regulated and then exposed again for twenty or twenty-Uve minutes, did not appreciably alter their rates. Mr.
Fletcher was so pleased with the results that he purchased one of the watches for his own use among electric lighting machinery.
“In consideration of these reports in connection with former trials and time tests, I recommend that the Waltham Company he given a FIRST AWARD for their NEW
NON-MAGNETIC WATCH.
R. 0. J. ELLERY, E.R.S., Chairman.”
The following is a List o! Awards gained by the American Waltham Watches at International Exhibitions:—
PHILADELPHIA, 1375, Four Prise Medalsi PARIS, ISPS, Sold Medal i STM, 1330, Sold Medal, with Two Special and Pour First Prises; MBLLOURNI, 1331, Two Sold Medals;
NEW-ORIEAKS, 1333, Fire Prise Medals; INVENTIONS MEIHO J, LONDON, ISOS, Eeld Medal; MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL INHIBITION, 1000-0, First Award, Noa-MapeticWatehes
Constituting a record unequalled by any Exhibitors in Horology.
■ Extract from the London Horological Journal, July, 1889:—“The Great Northern Railway Company have ordered Twenty NON-MAGNETIC Watches of the American Waltham Watqh
Company for the use of the guards on the Scotch express.” ' ■
AMERICAN WAETHAM WATCHES. GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS' CONTRACT.
jfe TENDERS having been called for the supply of WATCHES for use upon the New South Wales Government Railways for the ensuing year, the preference was given to the celebrated
RAILWAY GUARDS’ WATCHES of the AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY. This is the Ninth Consecutive Year during which the WALTHAM WATCHES have been
chosen by the New South Wales Government as the best and most reliable timekeepers for railway purposes. WALTHAM WATCHES are used by the Government Railway Officials in New
South Wales Victoria and South Australia, and alpo upon all the Great Railway Lines of the United Kingdom and the Indian State Railways.
AMERICAN W-A.X_ a W .A. T C H O O M P* A. I^T
Sole Australian Agency : WALTHAM BUILDINGS, BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
* BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Modified Tontine and Mortuary Oivicienci Systems.
BONUS YEAR.— Books will be closed on 31st December, 1889, and the Quinquennial Investigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of Bonus.
Federated Squatters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIE/CULAE Q,TJ-A-AT, SYDISTE'S".
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
| Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL Sc CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship <fc General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medieval Metad Workers
KOM.KIC SKATES (any make) with ItRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
Established
IMS.
TSTEW
Established
1845.
INSURANCE COMPANY.
Conducted under the Official Supervision of the Insurance Department of the Government of the State of New York. Reports deposited annually with the Board of Trade in Great Britain,
in accordance with “The Life Assurance Companies Act, 1870.”
Life Assurance Only.
Purely Mutual.
Profits belong to Policy-holders, and Apportionments are made annually.
STATEMENT fob YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1888
accumulated funds •••• •••■ •••■ ,€19,234,606
SURPLUS over Liabilities by the New York State Standard of Valuation (4 per cent. Actuaries’) .... .... .... .... .... .£2,777,777
INCOME FOR YEAR ... .... ••• • ' • •••* •••• • £5.226,601
CLAIMS ire Payable in the Colonies at nearest Sranch Office, in sterling, and all Disputed Claims (in case any should arise) in Australia are to be decided by Australian Courts,
The Nonforfeiting Free Tontine Policy includes the advantages of the Tontine principle, of accumulations (securing valuable investment features in combination with insurance at
low cost), guaranteed options at end of Tontine periods, and perfect freedom after two years as to residence, travel and occupation (except service in war), in case ot death by reason of en .
gagy-ng in military or naval service in time of war, the reserve value of the policy will be paid. For full particulars' apply to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department, of Australasia,
ZBOHSTUD STREET CHAMBERS, SYTID.Isr.EISr.
The Bulletin
[Saturday, November 23, 1889.


TO BA
CO
511
IT,.
IH
'i E
m
m
mvmm
m
fit ITT?
0:5
Ifl
zrs
I \
o
O
&
g
:
O
V 23
mi
g
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOB INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
nn own's
URjESg
W
SATIN
XADIIS’
DREN?
TRUNKS tiyCiCJ
> M ,.U»»6X»»At* »>• <3
£7?r<ny*i 6
BOSTON
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOB-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES. .
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amstord’m 1888
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the lingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing - .
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. P. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
T> RITTENBERG & C O.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture , Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance, It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers (ind of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White nose” on “Golden
Lyre,’ ’ with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit MI erchant.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
ill
FOWLS OR OTHERS
ANIMALS
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS]
ALL NOXIOUS INSECTS,
FLEAS.FLIES BEETLES MOSQUITOES
COCKROACRE'S' <*<:W AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOG!
g
dV AN
<Tc<P ' '
SOLD
rIN TittS
UPWARDS
AND--ST O.RLKIEPERS
WMOUU.II
FELTON-CRIMWADEUC 0
-MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOESE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
g
AuC
jfh Consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAHCE whtch are calculated to deceive (he. Public, Lea and Perrins
(lave Jo request that Purchasen_t(e that (he iLabePonitvent , wills
/heart "their Signatu *• > th us-r*
voithouIXwhieh no fettle of Jlu,original WOR CESTERSBIRE
i&4 UCE is genuine \
jAsi for LEA and PERU IRS* Sauce, end see Name? on Wrapper, Lahti, Bottle and
Stepper,, Wholesale fund torPExportlby the % Proprietors, IVotxcsur ;\Crotse r end
BlaeSdeeiltLondpntfr.e,, by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the fVofld.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LEMIOIXT SQUEEZERS, &c., &c.
IL/dZclLestm. IBros, <Sz
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“HISTORY of- BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYLL,
Profusely Illustrated by “The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price
- ONE SHILLING ; per Post. Is. 3d
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents—\ ictorian :A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston ; Queensland : J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No. 510.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1889.
Price, 6d.
" TTsDEKA r/OAS /S' /A/ T///S A//e " „ r '’A"
— -4 ty/fo/Zy y?a6/?//~
x hSafycc, tVayya, /
""/// //siNRy ZocM's /'rp/y /?us/ra.//'a >
—~ 67a QCL/b - " '
k , - 76ote/ //o/>e7au.p 's /tpUtp Sfeccf-
JT'f&s /frclfed. y 6hrttq/do
/ /s j/y// M//f u-s
/po.fs aya.c/~/
g
h-e*? ytyfr/cO', jr
>J / #?Uy
fX/oecy-ect '
/M/
t rr f *
/V/lr
CAHTOONLETS.


Ten years
ended.
Convictions for serious
crimes per ten
thousand
of population.
No. of persons
hanged per
million
of population.
1838
87 2
490
1848
41-6
57
185S
•21-4
13
1868
14‘6
12
1878
12-9
4
1888
11-6
3
Year.
Murder or A tteinpted
Murder.
Murderor Attempted
Murder.
Execu-
tions.
Convic-
tions.
6
rx
Execu-
tions.
Convic-
tions.
1862
5
16
1876
4
12
1863
6
12
1877
2
4
1864
2
7
1878
1
8
1865
3
7
1879
16
1866
5
19
1880
4
15
1807
4
17
1881
1
3
1868
5
12
1882
3
10
1869
4
1883
1
8
1870
3
1884
2
7
1871
3
9
1885
3
9
1872
3
14
1880
2
10
1873
4
9
1837
...
3
1874
2
7
1888
2
15
1875
1
7
Year.
Kape and Attempted
Rape.
' .
u
CD
Rape and Attempted
Rape.
Execu-
tions.
Convic-
tions.
Execu-
tions.
Convic-
tions.
1862
2
1876
3
18(53
i
1877
5
1864
2
1878
7
1865
3
1870
i
3
1866
i
4
1880
6
1867
5
1881
i
!)
1868
1
1882
7
1869
5
1883
4
1870
(i
1884
1
1871
4
1885
2
1872
1)
1886
21
1878
4
1887
4
1
1874
i
17
1888
2
1875
1
5
The Bulletin
TL.O National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
- At 24 PITTSTREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TEEMS TO S ÜBSCEIBEES
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in hie
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with .Ims-
tradian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ’’ will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ice
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
tve are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—Which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom ice do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1889.
The State and Its Children.
The recent acquittal at Sydney of Mrs. Batts
on two charges of child-murder and the with-
drawal of the third charge by the Crown, take
nothing from the importance of the question
involved in the prosecution —nay, they rather
add to it. The S.M. Herald, in an article
dealing with the case, treats the infantile
mortality discovered in Mrs. Batts’ house as
a not extraordinary outcome of natural
causes. In the course of the prosecution a
medical witness on the side of the Crown
swore that in some Foundling Hospitals the
mortality rises to 80 per cent., and, accept-
ing this testimony, the Herald inquires
whether the managers of these institutions
have been put on trial for murder, as Mrs.
Batts has been. The question is pertinent.
The difference between 80 per cent, of
deaths under organised, skilled, and scientific
management and 90 per cent, or 95 per cent,
under ordinary private circumstances (at Mrs.
Batts’ establishment eleven children were
admitted and eleven died) is not so great as
to be passed over without censure at one end
and to be met with a charge of wilful murder
at the other.
# * *
But is it true that any foundling hospital,
except under the ravages of epidemic, re-
cords a mortality of 80 per cent. ? Medical
testimony did not appear to better advan-
tage during Mrs. Batts’ trials than on former
occasions, and it may be that this quotation
of 80 per cent, requires to be received with
a certain amount of that reservation which
has now become usual when doctors’
opinions are advanced. The infantile death-
rate during the last 20 years in New South
Wales has fluctuated between 7 per cent,
and 11 per cent., with an average of about
10 per cent, per year. In Victoria it is a
little more, in Queensland a little less. In
England the rate is greater, in France it is
greater still. But even in France it seldom,
at its worst, exceeds 16 per cent. To chil-
dren under five years of age the year 1875
was pestilential in Sydney. Out of 23,327
there died 2,177. The causes then, however,
were known. Yet, notwithstanding what
might be called a direct visitation, the death-
rate in the city at that time did not bear any
likeness to the figures cited at Mrs. Batts’
trials. We are aware that we are speaking
now of children generally, and not exclu-
sively of waifs taken away from, or put away by
their mothers and committed to the custody
of artificial motherhood. But what we want
to do is to show the full meaning of a death-
rate of 80 per cent, under any circumstances.
Some waifs are in such health when they
reach a foundling institution that death
must ensue within a short time. Some,
again, are so delicately organised that arti-
ficial food and artificial treatment prove
fatal. But, after admitting these facts, the
question comes—ls it possible that any
State-supported institution exists, professing
to treat children tenderly, skilfully, properly,
and yet sending four out of every five of
those committed to its care regularly to
their graves ? We incline to think that
there is a mistake here, and that the
medical man who gave this testimony
looked only hurriedly over some statis-
tical tables. Statistics relating to the death-
rate of children, as of adults, are generally
given as per thousand, and not per hundred,
and it is just possible that the figure 80
represented some foundling hospital death-
rate per 1000 and not per 100. If it be not
so, and if without exciting alarm an orga-
nised and State-supported institution, with
an adequate and competent staff of nurses,
with appropriate medicines and skilled physi-
cians, and with ample material comforts in
the way of clothing and bedding, fatally
fails with respect to four out of every five
children committed to it, there is most cer-
tainly not the slightest ground for starting
an inquiry of any kind when the humble,
unpretentious, often hard-up and compara-
tively ignorant baby-farmer announces that
she had not the good fortune to save the
remaining fifth one.
* * #
To the plain mind it is obvious, however,
that the baby-farmer in whose hands five
out of five die and the managers of public
institutions in which four out of five die,
ought to be put standing near one another
before a public tribunal and made to explain
the system or systems under which they act.
If an epidemic has broken out—that is one
explanation. If a number of abnormally
frail children sink under sudden climatic
changes—that is an explanation. But where-
ever four deaths among five children occur
there should be an explanation as a matter
of State necessity, and where the explana-
tion fails to be satisfactory the State should
prosecute for negligence or crime. To argue,
as the Herald does, that a baby-farmer in
whose hands 90 per cent, of deaths take
place should not be prosecuted, because the
managers of foundling hospitals in which 80
per cent, of deaths take place are not prose-
cuted, is to set up the standard of a false
morality. Unless natural causes for the
fatalities be shown, both classes of superin-
tendents should be prosecuted.
* * *
Leaving this part of the subject, however,
we come to another which, in our opinion,
merits serious and early consideration.
Even if the death-rate in some foundling
hospitals be as high as stated these institu-
tions must be confessed to be exceptions.
Generally in foundling institutions the death-
rate is under double of the ordinary rate
where mothers attend to their own offspring.
That being so, it must be felt that recent
facts leave no option to the State but to
establish without delay an institution of this
class. There is no need for sentimental
colouring. The stark fact that children’s
lives are being lost in our midst which might,
if such an institution were available, be saved
stands before all eyes. It is alleged that
the establishment of such an institution
would make, or might make, the road to evil
easy. Even though this allegation were true,
the State is not at liberty to sanction a waste
of lifeinthepresent inorder toputa stumbling-
block in the road of future sinners. The lives
born to-day are the State’s actual property.
No matter how the lives came into being,
there they are, and the abandonment of
them by their mothers, the abandonment of
them by “society,” does not affect the
State’s property in them or the State’s duty
towards them. The State dare not say with
its lips that it will kill these children to show
girls how bad a thing it is to become un-
wedded mothers. But if, being able to
establish an institution in which the death-
rate will be less than under baby-farming, it
refuses to establish this institution and
suffers baby-farming to go on, it perpetrates
by deed what it dare not put in words.
* # *
One step in the direction of such an
institution which has been frequently
urged is the duty of licensing women
who offer their services to the public as
custodians of infants. It is a step in the
right way, but covers too little space to meet
the necessities of the case or to relieve
Government from its responsibilities. Baby-
farmers, as was revealed in the trials under
notice, are often-times placed in positions
in which more profit might accrue from the
death than from the preservation of the
life of a child. Again, as the terms of
various persons pursuing the business
of baby-farming will materially differ, the
mother in straitened circumstances will be
obliged, whatever the state of health of her
child, to hand it up to the custodian least-
likely or able to preserve it. From both
these causes evils to children, which it is the
bounden duty of the State to prevent, will
continue to arise. But over and above this
there is still a class of mothers whom it is
the duty of the State to hold in mind, and
whom the licensing of baby-farmers would
only remotely, if at all, beneficially affect.
The direct action of the State is called upon
in behalf of the unhappy women who fren-
ziedly take the lives they are responsible
for and are yet ashamed to own, even in the
presence of a baby-farmer.
What Hanging Has Done for Australia.
Prior to the year 1840, judicial executions, at
Sydney, were not such notable events as they
have since become ; indeed so common were they,
that deaths by hanging averaged during some years
one a week, while in 1821, 19 men were despatched
during the course of a single fortnight. In those
far-off days, the penalty of death was attached
to all sorts of petty crimes, for the commission
of which persons are how summarily dealt with
by a magistrate, and sentenced in extreme cases
to six months’ imprisonment. Times are changed
and we with them, for which may Heaven make
us duly thankful. , No cant is more odious than
the praise of ancient times; the only persons who,
by any conceivable possibility, can reasonably
regret the passing away of the old system are
the conductors of the evening newspapers, to
whom the excitement of a weekly hanging would
still be most acceptable and remunerative.
* * #
A record reaching back to the days when
Governor Phillip flourished the cat-o’-nine tails,
and showing the number of unfortunates con-
demned to be hanged, and duly executed, would
be extremely suggestive; this, however, is not
procurable, but Mr. Coghlan, the New South
Wales Government Statist, has very kindly sup-
plied the public with figures dating from 1825,
which are of more than passing interest. It would
appear that since the year named 1920 persons
have been sentenced to death, and of these 1271
were condemned during the first 14 years. Out of
the total first mentioned, the sentence was carried
into effect in 650 eases, that is in one out of every
three. The greatest boom in hanging was in 1829,
when 52 were swung up ; the record of the suc-
ceeding year was very close with a tally of 50.
In both these years the government of Australia
was in the hands of Ralph Darling, who, in
five years, sanctioned the execution of about
220 persons. Though 1829 stands out boldly
as the year in which executions were most
numerous, 1832 is noteworthy for the number
capitally condemned, 156 persons having been
devoted by “ justice ” to death during that year.
We read in the unreliable chronicles of the
Gubars, that when Nero assumed the Imperial
purple he had a very tender heart, and when the
first warrant for execution was brought for his
signature he wept bitterly, crying out: “ Oh, that I
had never learnt to write !” Historians do not
neglect to tell us how in a very little while the
Emperor could not sign the warrants fast enough
and had a rubber-stamp made so that he could get
through the work with expedition. History re-
peats itself, as we are often told. In 1832, General
Bourke’s first year of office, he probably had
qualms of conscience, so that out of 156 over
whom the sentence of death was read, Bourke
permitted the execution of 12 only. Good man as
he was, he, nevertheless, got his hand in fairly
well, as in the four succeeding years he authorised
the deaths of 141 men. Gipps took Bourke’s
place in 1838, and, like the other historical per-
sonages mentioned, his reign began with clemency,
for out of 130 condemned he reprieved 111. In
1839 the law regarding hanging was changed, so
that many crimes before deemed capital were re-
legated to a lower plane of seriousness. The last
year when the number of persona hanged reached
double figures was 1842, and the last when ten or
more were condemned to death, was 1868. So
much for the history of the question.
* * #
Legislators, in determining the penalty to be
attached to the commission of any offence, are
guided by two objects—first to deter the offenders
from committing the offence again, and, secondly,
to act as a warning to others who are likely to fall
into similar practices. As regards hanging, it is
a certain deterrent in the ease of the man who is
hanged—his career of crime is closed, but its de-
terrent effect on other people we are not so sure
about. If we take the proportions of persons
hanged as compared with the number forming the
whole community, and the number of persons con-
victed of serious crime during the same years, we
ought to have two elements which bear more or
less upon one another. If punishment by hanging
has the effect of terrifying persons disposed to
commit serious crime, the more numerous the crop
of executions the less frequent should be the
occurrence of serious offences. Let us see what
has been the experience of New South Wales :
The foregoing figures give the lie direct to the
assumption that the death penalty prevents crime.
During the 60years for which there are records crime
has fallen from over 87 offences per ten thousand
to something less than 12 per ten thousand of the
community, and during the same period hanging
as a punishment has almost fallen into disuse. If
modern New South Wales indulged as freely
in capital punishment as did her authorities
in the years prior to 1838, 550 persons would
have been hanged during last year, instead of
the two actually executed. We do not, of
course, attribute the improvement in the crimi-
nal record of the community altogether to the
abolition of capital punishment; its cause may be
also sought in the spread of enlightenment and the
improved social condition of the masses; but the
lesson gained from the experience which the
country has had of this barbarous system is that,
so far from striking terror into the hearts of
would-be criminals, judicial hanging has the effect
of lowering the moral tone of the community, and
therefore of rendering some of its members more
prone to commit the very offences which the
punishment is intended to prevent. Nor is New
South Wales in any degree singular in its experi-
ence, as the other provinces of Australia bear
similar testimony.
* * *
Before quitting the statistical part of the ques-
tion, we would offer a few figures for the considera-
tion of the advocates of this form of punishment,
for hanging has its partizans, even as burning at
the stake, disembowelling, and other old English
customs had in their day. The death penalty is
now enforced for only two classes of offences—
murder and rape. We have ascertained the
number of convictions for murder and attempt at
murder for twenty-seven years, and the number of
persons executed for these offences during the same
period. ■ The information is contained in the
following figures:—
The lesson which may be extracted from these
figures will depend entirely on the bias of the per-
sons using them. An advocate of capital punish-
ment may say that the years in which there were
no executions were almost invariably followed by
a large crop of murders in the next succeeding
year. Thus there were no executions in 1887,
1879, 1870, and 1869, and in the years immediately
subsequent to these there were respectively 15, 15,
9, and 3 convictions, and the years when only one
man was hanged were also followed by a high
number of convictions —viz., 12 in 1876, 17 in 1879,
10 in 1882, and 7 in 1884. On the other hand,
some years in which there was plenty of hanging
were followed by a very light calendar. Unfor-
tunately for the success of such an argument from
the same set of figures, it may be shown that years
when capital executions were numerous were
followed by years during which murder was ram-
pant. Similarly in regard to rape, for which
offence men are still hanged in Australia.
If we were advocating the punishment of rape
by hanging, the figures just given would be a per-
fect treasury of argument, for almost every year
in which a man was hanged for the offence, was
followed by a decrease in the number of convic-
tions. Thus the four Mount Rennie boys were
lynched in the early part of January 1887, and dur-
ing that year and the subsequent one there were
only three convictions, one in 1887 and two in 1888,
while in 188(1 the convictions numbered 21. In
1874 there were 17 convictions and one execution,
while in 1875 the convictions numbered only five,
nevertheless one man was hanged in this year, and
in the subsequent year the convictions fell to three
only. Again, in 1878 there were seven convictions
one of the guilty parties being executed during the
next year, and, strange to say, the convictions
numbered only three. The same thing occurred
in 1881 when out of nine convictions there was one
execution, the number of convictions falling off in
the following year. The argument is charmingly
complete, but, nevertheless, perfectly worthless.
It may be laid down as a well-ascertained fact
that juries are loth to convict for the offence of
rape, knowing that death is the penalty assigned
by law as its punishment. The repugnance to
convict becomes very strong after an offender has
been executed, so that the phenomenon of a de-
crease in convictions for rape is the result not of
the terror inspired in the minds of would be
ravishers by the prospect of being hanged, but of
the unwillingness of juries to convict while the
recollection of the enforcement of the penalty is
fresh in their minds. If, therefore, hanging
affects the number of convictions obtained for
rape, it only does so by allowing guilty persons
to escape, through the disinclination of juries to
be, even indirectly, parties to the shedding of
blood.
# # #
Our opposition to capital punishment is not,
however, based on its failure to prevent crime,
for admitting for the sake of argument that
the offence of rape could be effectually stamped
out by indiscriminate hanging, we do not think,
even under such circumstances, the penalty would
be justifiable, for it might with equal effect be
applied to the offences of wife beating, embezzle-
ment and horse-stealing. The punishment of
crime can only be morally justified by its effect
on the criminal himself and not upon society.
To punish a man in order to prevent another
from committing the same offence, can neither
be sustained on moral nor equitable grounds.
If a man embezzles from a bank and is found
guilty, the judge, when sentencing him, may
argue thus : For the offence the prisoner has
committed he deserves three years’ imprisonment,
there have, however, been several very bad cases
lately, and the tendency to embezzle must be put
down ; if this man be sent to gaol for seven years
we may hear no more of this kind of robbery.
Accordingly the prisoner is sentenced to seven
years. It is obvious that in three years the un-
fortunate expiates his crime, and, as an innocent
man, serves four years longer for the good of
society, which has, perhaps, forgotten during at
least the latter years of his sentence that he ever
lived or embezzled at all.
# * *
There can be no absolute standard by which the
enormity of an offence may be guaged, although
the law assumes that such a standard exists. The
crimes punished capitally are, of course, very
dreadful, but there are offences of which the law
does not take cognizance, which are far more
disastrous in their results and possibly more abso-
lutely wicked. The malfeasance of the much-
trusted solicitor, of which Australia presents
numerous examples, may bring desolation to many
homes with consequences far more distressing
than even the vilest murder or hideous profana-
tion of woman ; yet the law assigns death as the
penalty of the one set of offences and allows the
greater villainy to pass unpunished. Against this
it may be urged that legislation to he effective
must be practical, and for this reason many crimes
against morals and the public weal must be passed
unnoticed, because they cannot be practically
proved in their consequences. For this reason the
custom of assigning a definite punishment for a
definite offence is justifiable. But admitting it is
proper that a culprit should be deprived of his
liberty, the reasoning which would justify im-
prisonment cannot establish the propriety of the
punishment of death.


The measure of the seriousness of a crime is the
evil which springs from it. As in the gamut of
offences from pitch-and-toss to murder, there are
degrees of seriousness, so fine as to be almost un-
distinguishable, so, too, the punishments awarded
should have correlation to the seriousness of the
crime. The gap separating the punishment of
imprisonment and the punishment of death is im-
mense, so that if death be a just award for any
class of crimes, the next below them in serious-
ness are inadequately dealt with, for there is no
punishment which approaches the death-penalty is
seriousness. Our forefathers were logical, if brutal
m their treatment of certain crimes. They tor-
tured the imprisoned so as to make the suffering
of the living approach as near as possible what
they considered the agony of death. They hanged
m chains those for whom a simple death was con-
sidered too merciful, and instituted hanging and
disembowelling for the worst of all offenders, those
who bieathed a word against the majesty of the
m » -
Tf , . *
It the statistics of hanging and crime show any-
thing, it is that there is little relation of one to
the other. The fear of punishment rarely enters
into the murderer’s mind. It is a remarkable
circumstance, that no murderer before the com-
mission of his crime, dreams he will be found out.
Nor is it likely that the man who contemplates
that savage crime which to a pure woman is worse
than death, thinks of the gallows-tree that will
tie his end when he is captured. Against crimes
X momentary in conception and
°/ the , law are .without
t feet. To argue, therefore, tnat hanging pre-
rtl'TJw f Th s remarkal > le variation
f number of convictions in different years
thp ivnol a Very f dlffe r e “ t cau . S( : than argued by
Z 1 capital Punishment. As we
have said, the figures may give colour to any
theory, according to the bias of the person using
them. Cume comes m cycles like measles, sun
spots, droughts and baby-shows, and the years of
heavy record are succeeded by others of opposite
character. When there is a heavy calendar there
' vd na tuially be an execution, and it is just as
reasonable to attribute the decrease in capital
convictions to the execution, as to set down the
floods which follow years of drought to the bush-
tires that invariably rage in drought seasons.
HENRY SIEBEL.
Tummy.
When the languid swell at the David Copper-
field dinner-party informed the company that
he'd “ rather be knocked down by a fellow with
good blood in his veins than picked up by a com-
mon fellow who had not blood, you know, ” he ex-
pressed the opinion of a very large portion of the
British race. England still looks upon her peer-
age as an emanation from the divinity and an em-
bodiment of its best attributes. America sacri-
fices her monied maidens to the scrofulous, leering,
goggle-eyed dragon of aristocracy with alacrity’
and even in Australia, that last-born land of free-
dom, there is a tendency to adopt the sanguine
conclusion of the lady “ who looked like Hamlet’s
aunt,” and to declare, “Oh there’s nothing like
blood! Give me blood above all things.” Indeed
it is only four years since the Poet Paekes, com-
pleting the petition the Patriot Wentworth
began, indirectly but artfully pleaded in the
columns of the Nineteenth Century for the
creation of an Australian peerage, and he would,
no doubt, in order to begin the golden book with a
noble name, have consented that the first line
should be inscribed with the title of “Baron
I aulconbridge. ” There ought to be some
foundation for so widely prevalent a worship as
that of the peerage, there ought to be some reason
for these claims to hereditary respect by men of
long descent and for the slavish adulation which
bows down before “blood.” Let us, therefore,
take the “best-descended” man we know and
measure his powers and his genius with those of
his ancestors, that we may see how much of their
great qualities he happens to inherit—and as
Tummy, Prince of Wales, on account of whose
birthday all Australia the other day shut up shop
and hung out flags, is far and away the “ best-
descended ” man in the world we will take him
for our shining example. So, as a long lineage is
a big thing to tackle, let us oil the joints of our
wings and preen our feathers and take a long
flight into that period when the great men of the
day in various countries were putting their ener-
gies into the action which should finally lead to
the evolution of “ Tummy.”
* * *
Tummy, then, is lineally descended from the
kings of Scotland, England, Prance, Hungary,
Bohemia, Denmark, Naples, Jerusalem, and
Arragon, to say nothing of four-score minor places
amongst which pandemonium is included as not
worth mentioning. One of his ancestors, King
Kenneth Mac Alpine, himself fortieth in descent
from Fergus Mac Eric, exterminated the Piets
and united all Scotland under one sovereign.
Another of them, King Egbert, put an end to
the Heptarchy and grabbed all England for his
own. A third of the noble brood, King Alfred,
drove the Danes out of the kingdom; and a fourth,
William the Norman, brought the blood of
Beelzebub into the family, since he was himself
son to Robert the Devil, who was son to old Nick
if his mother correctly represented the circum-
stances attendant upon his birth. These redoubt-
able people were all blended in and represented
by King Henry 11., whose immediate descendants
brought into the Royal line the Mood of Valois
and that of other noble European houses. But
all these splendours were dimmed when James
V. of Scotland, grandson of King Henry
v i, 1 - of England married Mary of Guise, whose
lather, Claude of Lorraine, quartered the arms of
eight sovereigns on his shield, and himself married
Antoinette de Bourbon, thus adding France to
the list. It is not necessary to enumerate any
more of the great people whose potentialities
eventuated in Tummy. It is sufficient to say that
Jus ancestors were kings before the Hohenzol-
lerns built their first castle from the fruits of
their first foray, and be r ore Bourbon, Hapsburg,
or Nassau had emerged from serfdom. Con-
querors like Scottish Kenneth and Norman Wil-
liam, law-givers like Saxon Alfred, and heroes
like Bruce ; lovely ladies like Marie Stuart and
princes like Edward 111. all havelived their little
day, all have done their little work, and the being
in whom their beauty, wit, power, valour, and
kingship are united is a short, fat, bull-necked,
bald-headed, pot-bellied sensualist, fond of “life ”
and language, given to bad company and gross
enjoyments, a terror to his tradespeople, a tax
upon his friends, a prince whose acquaintance is
equally ruinous to a woman’s good name and to a
man s bank-balance.
* * #
Surely no satire on the snobbishness that sees in
birth a claim to privilege could be greater than
that afforded by the existence of Tummy as the
representative of fifteen hundred yean of Scottish
monarchy and a thousand years of British sove-
reignty. It would be impossible to find a lunger
line of ancestry in any family outside the rank of
Judaism; it would be equally impracticable to
devise a finer system of education than that
offered for his benefit. Yet Tummy is a rank
failure, and has been so all his life. As a boy he
was a bouncing, bombastic little snob. As a
young man he was a vulgar debauchee, as a
middle-aged reprobate he is simply a nuisance.
He ruined the happiness of his beautiful young
wife; he selected as his associates men of the
stamp of Blandfohd, Aylespord, Johnstone,
and others of their kind. He tendered himself as
a witness in the divorce-court to swear that he
had never had any intimacy whatever with a frail
and unfortunate woman, and side by side with his
denial 1,0 of his own letters to the miserable
woman were put in evidence, and finally when his
severe illness had softened the hearts of the in-
dignant people and induced them to forgive his
peccadilloes, he outraged their clemency by select-
ing the same bad old set for his companions
directly he was able to move, winding up by
taking the two worst of them with him to India
whence one returned to run away with the other’s
wife. If long descent and high birth and careful
breeding meant anything at all Tummy ought to
be a little lower than the angels. As it is, it would
be difficult to find more striking combination of
vulgar qualities than are displayed by the boon
companion of unnumbered rascals and the lineal
descendant of Alfred the G-reat.
* * #
A very little reflection should convince our
young Australians that as a simple matter of fact
their worship of titular dignity and ancient descent
are fatal mistakes. The great men of Australia
have all been self-made men—architects of their
own fortunes and independent of any adventitious
aid whatever. No doubt many of the largest for-
tunes in Australia have been practically donated
to their owners by corrupt Ministers, who have
allowed the alienation of water-frontages, the free
selection of mineral lands which should have been
reserved and have otherwise broken the trust of
the country. Others, again, have got rich by
robbery and jobbery, by forming corrupt syndi-
cates and bribing unscrupulous officials ; but even
these have not formed the majority of Australian
plutocrats. Most of our rich men became rich by
the careful observance of fortunate opportunities
and by industrious self-denying perseverance in the
courses those opportunities indicated. Their sons
and daughters appear to be at least as sharp
as their fathers were before them, and what is
more to the purpose they appear to be cap-
able of taking a polish in the second generation,
which is neither better nor worse than that of
their wealthy European cousins, “ The repose
that marks the caste of YbrE de Verb ” is com-
posed in equal parts of personal conceit and the
conservatism of wealth. In neither of these attri-
butes are the richer Australians lacking. The
rumseller’s daughter-in-law who lately expatiated
on the impossibility of “ keeping up her position
in Yurrup” on less than £BO,OOO a year of rents
(the proceeds of Crown grants !) has no reason to
ask points from Lady Clara Verb de Verb
herself, she has them already; while the ostenta-
tious cad who wastes the price of a mob of bullocks
in an orgie with a ballet-dancer need not lament
his lack of long descent and the dearth of noble
blood in his viens, since in the chosen pursuits of
Tummy he can rival Tummy himself.
“At a Baby Show.”
Shakespeare threw a prophetic glance into the
heart of our own time when he gave first place to
the infant, “ mewling and puking ”in the nurse’s
arms. To-day, the public—who can, with gorgeous
scenery and complex mechanical effects, hardly be
allured to witness one of the great poet’s own
sublime dramas—crowd to the baby-show, and
degrade the race by allowing their counterfeit
presentments to compete for a prize, awarded to
juvenile blubber and infantile avoirdupois. By a
rapid stride, we reverse the process of our effete
civilisation. The ideal man of to-day generally
ends his career as a perambulatory stomach. He
gets back to the first stage of organic life—the
pre-eminence of a single cell; the apotheosis of
the pouch. Cul-de-sac-dom begins with the jelly-
fish and reaches its ultimate development in the
millionaire, whose limbs serve simply to assist him
from one banqueting-table to another. Now, how-
ever, we have got beyond this ! The fat baby is
the type of the ideal child-man henceforward, and
Grease aptly begins its reign in the cradle, in that
age in which it is enthroned in the grave.
* # *
We went to the baby-show with the crowd,
expecting to be amused. We came away sad-
dened and dyspeptic. It is the fashion to gush
over children ; to see in them only angels of light,
allowed by a merciful heaven, in intervals all too
few and far between, to revisit the glimpses of
the moon, and to break a light upon man’s little
day of darkness and toil. On the contrary, we
found the baby-show a very sorrowful forecast of
future unhappiness—a penumbra of ineffable
tragedy. The baby-world is our own world at an
early stage. The little child-faces and the plump
baby-forms spoke of pain, suffering, heart-agony,
sickness, hunger, inherent cruelty, avarice, of all
the ills and of all the weaknesses to which our
children are heirs by Nature’s mighty law of heri-
tage. Already in their cradles were they essaying
their future rdles ; unwittingly rehearsing a scene
or an act of the great grown-up human comedy.
One small image of mortal sin was industriously,
and apparently with infinite gusto, chewing its
crimson shoulder-knots and bedabbling its infant
cheeks with carnation smudges. “It ” was a girl,
and “it ” was indulging in the common feminine
vanity of calling in the aid of Art to make
amends for the lack of Nature’s gifts. One
preternaturally grave and solemn child, more like
a baby mummy than a baby man, posed in an
attitude so strikingly adult-like, that one already
recognised the Speaker of a colonial Legislative
Chamber or the editor of a religious daily. Quar-
relsome little demons, full of strange oaths and
infantile cacophony, evinced parliamentary quali-
fications of a high order, and gave re assurance
that the race of native-born legislators was a
strong and full-blooded one. There were also sly,
cooing, smiling, cunning, smirking babies, ple-
thoric with shrewd complaisances and diabolical
blandishments, and one instinctively thrust his
hands into his pockets at sight of them, and
grasped tightly the few shillings therein ; for he
saw before him a coming generation of sharks and
nippers, snide speculators, heroes of the bourse
and ’change alley, first-robbers in mining specs.,
land-boomers and wind-promoters, controllers of
wool and corn corners, and the rest of the happy
family of commercial sponges and parasites.
* * #
One youngster, dignified of mien and voluble of
speech, was, in an unknown tongue, eloquently
addressing an admiring throng ; but we doubted
his sincerity, for he winked knowingly with his
right eye from time to time, and adroitly ab-
stracted a breast-pin from an adjacent admirer.
We knew that we beheld before us the Premier of
a coming decade, and prostrated ourself mentally
before his budding talents. Hard by, a tali
young man, with the slightest suggestion of
obesity, was toying with a baby-girl of considerable
personal attractions augmented by much blue rib-
bon. Poor little thing ! By-and-bye, when she
had arrived at the pinky-whiteness and aureoline-
tressiness of sweet 17, she would figure in a
marriage of convenience, and the young man—
then young no longer, and groaning beneath more
embonpoint than the adorers of the Belvidere con-
sider at all necessary—would also play a promin-
ent part in the conventional farce.
« * «
Near the door sat, beneath the glowering gaze
of a modern harpy, a poor, neglected child; he
tried hard to be good, but fate was against him.
Because his “pen” was neglected for the more
meretricious attractions of other babes, he was
pinched and otherwise persecuted by the lady
fiend who attended him. We knew him at a
glance. This little chap would, throughout his
life, try to do some sort of good, but he’d never
succeed. He might enter the Church, but he would
have unfortunate convictions, which would compel
him to sell all that he had and to go out into the
rain. He might become a lawyer, but his honesty
would keep him poor. He might serve one session
in Parliament even—but his sort never serve more
than one. He might do a hundred things, but the
reward of this world would never be his, and
though virtue is, we know, its own reward, still
prize-cattle cannot be fattened on it. Eventually,
perhaps, he would become a Bulletin scribe, and
as this is about the only good thing that could
happen to him in this vale of tears, we hope he
may manage to get there. This baby filled our
heart with woe, and we hastened away to our own
unbaby-blessed, bachelor abode, and wept in soli-
tude, unrelieved by the midnight yell of the
teething infant, far into the morning hours.
# & *
On the whole, babies are, in the mystic punc-
tuation of life, weird interrogation-marks, asking
tragic questions of futurity. We love children—
when they are what is called good—and we take
a deep interest in them, anyhow ; for we were
once a child ourself, and we often wish we were
there again. Whenever we see a very happy
child we feel inclined to kill it—it is such bar-
barity to let the poor little beggar outlive its hap-
piness.
HEROD JUDÆUS.
The Only Federal Paper.
Speaking at his farewell Sydney meeting, John
Dillon said that during his stay in Australia he
had found that the Press generally behaved with
great fairness. He would, however, except from
the scope of this remark two Melbourne journals,
the Argus and the Age. Were he to mention the
names of all the papers which had spoken well
of his cause the list would become a vast catalogue.
He felt, however, bound to specially name one
journal as having been singularly consistent in its
powerful support given to the Irish cause all
through, even in the days when that cause was
in its darkest condition, and when it was a
matter requiring great courage to accord any-
thing like open and sympathetic help to the
Irish people. That paper was The Bulletin,
and it was a fact with which he had been very
much struck and very much pleased, as a
Nationalist, that The Bulletin was the most
widely-circulated of all Australian papers. Where-
ever he had been, whether in Southern Victoria
or Northern Queensland, on the miner’s gold
claim, or in the bushman’s hut, he had seen The
Bulletin. These remarks of Mr. Dillon were,
we need hardly say, carefully suppressed by the
daily papers. This much is quite certain—
what Mr, Dillon said is absolutely true, and it is
true within the personal knowledge of everyone
who travels anywhere in Australasia and keeps his
eyes and ears open. The Bulletin needs no puffs
from anyone, and it now only publishes the
unsolicited statements and opinions of Mr. Dillon
(to whom no member of its staff ever wrote or
spoke until within an hour prior to the delegates’
departure from Australia) because of the deliberate
conspiracy on the part of the daily press to keep
from the public knowledge a unique and influential
even if unnecessary testimonial.
“ A private club in the West End of London has
been the scene of a horrible scandal, in which no
fewer than 98 of the members are implicated.
Amongst the persons implicated are included a
future duke, a duke’s son, a peer of the realm,
sons of peers, a Hebrew financier, a clergyman,
and several officers of the ai’my. The offenders
have taken to flight. The newspapers have sup-
pressed all accounts of the occurrence, but there is
no doubt of its truth.”—(Australian daily paper.)
Good old sup-Press ! Only recently The Bulle-
tin took that invaluable Tory institution as the
subject for a “ skit ” which professed to be the re-
port of a speech made by a “ distinguished ”
colonist in proposing “Long life to the Sup-Press. ”
At this very moment, perhaps, the duke’s son, the
future duke, the peer of the realm, the parson,
and the men in buckram (all of whom seem to
have fled the country together, in order to repeat
their horrible scandal in another country, no doubt)
are drinking The Bulletin’s new toast with
musical honours. Good old newspapers ! They
suppressed all accounts of this occurrence—wherein
one hereditary law-maker in esse and several in
posse were implicated—that they might have more
space for dealing with the common or garden im-
morality of plain Bill Jones, and for going into
ajl the details of “ Jack the Ripper’s ” latest
loathsome crime. What should we do without
our “high-class” daily journals, always alive to
the necessity for publishing columns of'filth about
obscure offenders, and always equally alive to
the importance of covering up the vices of
“society?” Why, if it were not for those excel-
lent organs of public opinion (ha ! ha !) Peers had
been abolished ten years ago, and sulphur had
been burnt in their historic ebbating-House to
disinfect it of the germs of their abominable moral
disease.
The London bakers have been out on strike for <i
sixty-hours working week. .John Burns asserted,
in a recent speech, that - Journeyman bakers in
London work from eighty to over a hundi-ed hours
weekly, and that the West-end bakers as a rule
did not earn more than 24s. to 26s. a week for
their 80 to 100 hours—and at the East-end men
were known to work 108 hours in the week for 18s.
or £1, while they toiled in places as dirty as pig-
styes, stripped to the waist, reeking with filth and
perspiration, in a temperature often over 120
degrees. Consumers should see that these men
had shorter hours and healthier workshops, for
the baker, after 21 hours’ continuous work, often
slept, utterly prostrated, in his clothes, and then
returned in a few hours without a change and
without washing “ to make tarts, pastry; and con-
fectionery, thosedelicaciesand luxuries of the rich. ”
Continuing, he declared that there were “ 15,000
English, Irish, and Scotch operative bakers in
London, and 5000 or 6000 foreigners. People
could walk if cabmen, omnibusmen, and tramcar-
men struck ; but the ‘ inner man ’ must be fed,
and so if the bakers were united and determined
in their attitude they must inevitably win. ” Here
he was interrupted by someone who said “Let
the dirty Germans go back. ” Burns said he was
perfectly agreeable that the German journeyman
bakers should go back if the Germans of Bucking-
ham Palace and Windsor would accompany them,
All he desired was that German or other foreign
bakers should join the Union, and not work for
less wages than their English brethren. Probably
his objections to the “royal” Germans are—first,
that they.do not work; second, that if they did
work, it would be scarcely worth remuneration;
and third, that they are so highly paid for doing
nothing as to cause much of the prevailing misery.
Hie proof given of the universality of the
cause of labour by the readiness of the London
stiikers to assist their Broken Hill brethren has
somewhat disconcerted the Adelaide mining-
magnates, including W. A. Horn, M.P.—who
subscribed largely to the dockers’ fund.
R. S. Smythe calls Perth, W.A., the
City of (Treat Expectations.” It is very de-
pressed at present, never more so; but the people,
unlike those of Adelaide, keep a stiff upper-lip,
and feel confident that a glorious future is close at
hand. Ihe Much-Travelled” describes the
climate as the most delicious he ever experienced
anywhere.
One of the claimants for the honour of
having originated the Victorian Eight Hours’
movement has just died. James Stephens came
to Melbourne in 1853, and it is alleged that
through Ins efforts the first Eight Hours’ anniver-
sary was celebrated in the Southern City on the
l ; 1806. Mr. Stephens was a stonemason.
Another claimant for the honour, Mr. Beniamin
Douglas, plasterer, is still alive and hearty,
j H°petoun is bringing out three
Highland retainers in kilts, one Turkish body-
servant m barbaric splendour, and 26 Anglo-
Saxon flunkeys of various grades. Yet this same
sickly lordhng couldn’t pass a very ordinary exam,
to qualify him for admission to the armv. The
chances are that the unspeakable Turk aforesaid
can knock spots off the new Victorian Governor
in the matters of reading, writing, and arithmetic.
The parish priest of Ashburton, N.Z., is a
little round-faced Frenchman named Father
Chastagnon. That’s his full name, but from the
Alps to the sea he is known as Father “Shass”
and is equally in request at wedding and wake,
flower-show and funeral. “ Shass’,s ” little church
is up to its spouting in debt, but the priest has
gone into partnership with Providence and pro-
poses to liquidate at one swoop. He has leased
1000 acres of land on behalf of the church, has had
it ploughed by the faithful on terms known
technically as “the never,” has sown it with wheat
bought without money and without price, has
prayed for a bounteous harvest and says that
shoidd lus prayer not be answered, he will con-
clude that Providence thinks that things had
better slide along as usual.
Mysterious disappearances are not confined
to countries other than Australia. Many years ago
a well known and popular sportsman, holding a re-
sponsible commercial position, was, to the aston-
ishment of everybody, found to be a heavy defaulter
I he manager and a detective waited upon him one
evening at his elegantly-appointed villa by the
Yarra. He begged a few moments to confer with
his wife, and took the opportunity of slipping out
by the back and into the river ! at least it was said
so. The stream was dragged without effect. A
fortnight afterwards a body was picked up a mile
down the river, much dilapidated. An inquest
was held and, for convenience sake, it was declared
to be the body of , but it wasn’t, as he has been
seen in lands beyond the Pacific many times since
then, and no one regrets his escape. But he was
bowled out a week too soon; before the “body ” was
fished up he had won £II,OOO in a double, which
the bookmakers carefully pocketed.
In connexion with the unsuccessful appli-
cation made last week to the N.S.W, Supreme
Court by Mr. Everard Digby, that he might be
disbarred ” so as to admit of his practising as a
solicitor, it may be interesting to mention that
prior to 1824 solicitors practised before the
Supreme Court Judges. In that year Wentworth,
who had just been admitted to the English Bar,
returned to N.S. Wales, bringing with him Dr.
Wardell (who, in 1834, was shot dead on his estate
at Petersham by bushrangers). These two gen-
tlemew applied to the Court for a division of the
profession, winch was refused, as the then Charter
of Justice gave solicitors audience in the higher
Courts. In 1829 the Judges agreed to a division
of the Bar, allowing practitioners to choose which
branch of the profession they would adopt. In
1834 this division was confirmed by the King in
Council. _ The Mr. Brewster whose case was cited
in Mr. Digby’s application was a barrister practis-
ing in Port Phillip, where he arrived in 1839. He
was anxious to practise in both branches of the
profession, but permission was refused. He was a
brother of Abraham Brewster, a Lord Chancellor
of Ireland, and owned a large amount of property
in Melbourne.
Poor James Fullerton, the barrister who
lately died, was one of the most amusing and best-
natured men at the Victorian Bar. He was
chronically Ivrd-up, but there wasn’t a manat
the Bar who wouldn't give him the odd shilling of
his only guinea if he wanted it. A quarter of a
century ago “ James,” as he was affectionately
called, was a schoolmaster, but he thought he was
wasting his time teaching. So he went to the
Bar.. After admission (which was easy enough in
those days) he was first brought under public
notice by an historical trial. In 1867 there was a
long, lanky individual, not unlike a snake him-
self, named Shires, who gave out that he had dis-
covered an infallible cure for snake-bite. He gave
public exhibitions, allowed himself to be bitten by
snakes, and then, applying his antidote, said
he felt rather better than ever. One day Marcus
Clarke, Alfred Telo, and a police-magistrate
named Drummond (all three are dead now) ifiet
Shires in Carton’s Hotel, when Drummond in-
sisted upon Shires getting one of his snakes to bite
him. After a lot of persuasion Shires consented,
a snake was allowed to nip Drummond’s wrist, an
antidote was given, and Drummond went home
and died. At the inquest Shires was com-
mitted for manslaughter, and during tin; trial was
defended by Fullerton, who gained his acquittal.
Ffillerton was a bachelor, and for years slept, ate,
and held consultations in his single chamber in
Temple Court, that once famous home of lawyers
which is now given up to commission-agents,
type-writers, and other people who put “Back in
five minutes ” on their doors and call once a-week
at their offices. When Fullerton died, the other
day, the barristers gathered round him and gave
him a decent coffin and a pleasant grave not f-r
from that of old Judge Barry, before whom I. IVs
broad North of Ireland accent and funnily solemn
eyes so often pleaded for law and justice.


[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, November 20, 1889.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
I wonder how Potts Point manages to bear up under
the pointed snub administered by Lady Oarington in failing
to choose one of its denizens as god-mother to the latest
vice-regal infant? The Marchioness of Stafford accused
the Caringtons of “ thinking little of themselves and
much of the people round them.” The recent christening
shows that even titled scribblers err occasionally.
Quite the feature of Sydney last week was the guber-
natorial redivivus. On no less than four occasions vice-
regality was on view and the air was absolutely heavy
with “ Qod save the Oueen,” a petition that has got a little
creaky with disuse beside the Beautiful Harbour lately.
On 13th inst. Lord and Lady Kintore (who leave for
Adelaide this week) oiceroned by the Baron, B. R. Wise
and somebody else did the Art shed—the day being too
wet to go anywhere else. In the evening their Excel-
lencies attended the Santley complimentary concert,
when a five-shilling crush resulted, this being virtually
Lady Carington’s first re-appearance in public ; and all
your Sappho could see of the vice-regal dressing was that
‘ * Our Queen of Beauty ” wore a black-laoe-and-silk din-
ner-gown relieved with diamonds, and that the Countess
affected black and diamonds also.
Then on 11th inst. there was a big vice-regal hop dis-
tinguished by a rather Pickwickian crush—the guests
seeming to have been mostly chosen hap-hazard from the
visitors’ book in the lobby. Lady Oarington, who with
the Baron and the visiting Earl and Countess received in
the red drawing-room, looked more charming than ever,
and wore white brocade softened with antique laces and
pearls and diamonds, while Lady Kintore’s get-up was
mainly cerulean, the train and bodice being of striped
satin over a pale-blue gauze petticoat adorned round the
feet with blue jet, the corsage being also trimmed with
jet, diamond ornaments. The frocking of the rest of the
women wasn’t exactly stupendous, though, I believe,
much painful consideration was given to the subject by
more than one of the guests whose respective frock-
builders must have frequently contemplated suicide. In-
deed, one lady was so torn with doubts as to whether
green and white or green and black would look best “on
the figure ” that she actually had the two combinations
made up into evening gowns, being quite unable to decide
between them otherwise ! And apropos of the rather un
expected people who were guests on this occasion, could
they have been bidden for the purpose of letting the
Kintores see the mother colony’s bears dance ?
Even a double-barrelled vice-regal attraction couldn’t
absolutely crowd the dress-circle of Sydney Royal when
the “ Ticket of Leave Man ” was revived on 16th inst. But
the vice-regal box was full. Lady Oarington wore a very
becoming evening gown of pink-striped and plain silk
with shoulder-puffs, and high bodice made with an up
right collar and front of white lace, sleeves to the elbow
finished with lace ruffles ; pink bow and aigrette in the
hair and diamond ornaments. Her theatre cloak was a
charming arrangement in ivory crepe de chine with a
floral design in olive-green and pink made in acoordeon
pleats from a yoke and high collar combined of olive-green
velvet lined with pale-pink. Lady Kintore’s gown was
dull and rather involved, consisting of a brown satin, badly-
fitting bodice with elbow sleeves and semi-medici collar
and V-shaped front filled with white, the skirt of mush-
room silk with a floral design in pink and ficelle and
side panels of brown and ficelle stripes, her theatre-
jacket being of grey satin with full puffed sleeves
and steel trimmings ; and Miss Hamilton’s frock
was of red silk and gauze—with a red gauze fan,
cluster of Lady Brisbane roses in the hair and a knot of
red and white flowers at the corsage, wrap of brown velvet
and fur. A paternal management was lavish in the
matter of bouquets, and there was a perfect plethora of
gilded programmes. Though the Earl of Kintore —who is
a vera braw Scot wi’ sondy hair, a florid face, and altitu-
dinous cheek-bones—made it a sacred duty to go out and
wind his Waterbury in every interval, Lord Oarington
remained heroically glued to his chair all the time. There
was no dressing to expatiate upon in the d.c.
People generally flirt on board ship, don’t they ?' But
as there are not always enough sea-dogs to go round, some
of the girls get very spiteful sometimes. On a N.Z.
steamer the other day one of the officers and a lady pas-
senger, who knew the full extent of his domesticity on
shore, had been pursuing a vivid flirtation since leaving
port, and consequently when anew and pretty passenger
ascended the gangway and Brass Buttons transferred his
allegiance after the manner of his kind, No. 1 wanted to
petrify the minx. But a more deadly revenge occurred
to her. One cloudy eve, as 8.8. was telling No. 2 fairy-
tales in a dim corner, No. 1 came up and said, effusively,
“Oh, Mr. Brown 1 the captain was just telling me that
your little son has whboping-oough. How sad for Mrs.
Brown !” Of course this is the proper climatic conclusion
to the yarnlet, but it doesn't end here. Guess No. I’s joy
when No. 2 said, sweetly, “Yes, isn’t it? She told me
she hadn’t slept for a week.” And then No. 1 retired
reverently. Greek had met Greek once more.
But really it's very dreadful to see how cheap the
average girl makes herself upon the bosom of the deep.
I travelled from a Northern port with a banker’s daughter
who “fancies” herself rather on her native heath, but
who was completely metamorphosed under coals and
canvas. She “ decked” till 10.30 p.m. always, and played
quoits with the captain for silk handkerchiefs and—really
—hose, and one night in our cabin remarked joyously :
“ Gracious ! if I win much more the ship will have quite
fitted me out in haberdashery.”
Too late to enthuse last week, 1 went to see Jennie
Lsi in the "Grasshopper" In her Intonation there was
much of “ Jo’s” low murmurs and sudden crescendo flights,
but otherwise it was difficult to connect the rotund circus-
girl and the wprked-out waif. The “Hopper” is the
sheerest nonsense, and although one does not expect
much of consequence in such a jovial jumble, isn’t it
rather odd that in act 2 Lady Buckram wears a simple
tea-gown and cap, while Lady Ernestine Topsawyer is gor-
geous in diamonds and low cut-green silk ? J. P. Burnett is
as refreshingly at home as ever. It is hard to believe he is
acting—I hear that he doesn’t even ‘ 1 get-up ” his face, and,
after the disheartening spectacle of so many leading men
with their eyes an inch deep in black-lead, an actor who
leaves his severely alone and doesn’t roll them into the
stage-boxes ought to be presented with tire freedom of
the public Treasury.
Quite a romance has just reached me about a Sydney
financial magnate and a pretty governess in a ladies’
school. He and she travelled to town by the same train
every morning, and he at last fell desperately, genuinely
in love with her, but was too bashful to speak without an
introduction. At last he could bear it no longer, so he
wrote a long and passionate letter setting forth his feel-
ings, means and position and concluding with an offer of
marriage, which he intended to slip into her hand next
morning. But when he had sealed the envelope, the
thought of how little he really knew of her occurred and
he burnt the letter. That’s all; to this day he’s Un-
married and she is perhaps a governess still.
Sydney weather has been sloppy enough lately to suit a
community of ducks, roads have been liquid mud and
the correct wear mackintoshes and bluoher boots, for any-
thing thinner worn to-day resembled a dried banana-skin
to-morrow. By the by, I know of a radical cure for
stiffened boots. Vaseline, judiciously applied with a small
linen cloth, restores the softness to the finest leather—I
tried it successfully myself.
Snazelle’s farewell benefit at Sydney School of Arts, on
IfithInst., resulted in a joyous and numerous crowd, and
of course the show went off like a bank-clerk after the
Cup. I am told that the other day the gifted monopolist
sent packets of tickets to a life-insurance society explain-
ing that he would like to see some of the boys at his show'
as he was once a life-insurance fiend himself. And, of
course, all these tickets were handed in at the door.
I hear that a solidly-planted British warbler and a very
high C soprano from across the Murray are about to enter
the holy state. Therefore the marvellous zeal displayed
in booming that concert was not quite disinterested, after
all.
So, after all, we’re not to have Santley in Thomas Tug,
and never had the chance, the whole affair resolving itself
into a managerial chimera, aided and abetted by two bold,
bad theatrical runners. Handsome George has written a
ponderous letter to a daily, 1 explaining in a Henry V.
manner how he was “nobbled,” and deplores a week of
vacant dates, and everything is gloom in consequence.
But, at the risk of alienating the entire musical com-
munity, your Sappho must rise to remark that she thinks
the great baritone to blame. He must have at least “ had
his attention called” to the newspaper notices, and an
instant contradiction would have saved Marc ■ Antony’s
grief.
"ITTANTED to Hire, Ball Dress and Opera Cloak
'' (lady Oft.), for 27th instant. Y., Hkrald Office.
But fancy the joy of the hirer when; her rival says, in
silvery tones, “ It fits you ever so much better than it did
my cook last week, dear ! ”
An apparently inexhaustible Sydney scribess, who is
evidently not built that way, gives her opinion in a recent
newspaper on the true masculine estimation of a flirt: —
For men, obtuse as they appear to women on some
points, are, on the whole, fairly shrewd in their estimate
of a known flirt. They call her jolly, and amusing, and
good fun, and all that sort of thing ; but as to giving her
that true and loyal homage that they accord to women of
the finer sort, they cannot. If they went even further,
and expressed by neglect of her and others like her, more
open disapprobation, it would be better still.
Reads a little vinegary, don’t you think, with the acidity
of one who has'suffered from the pretty girl who, always
has a partner? And it’s illogical, too. That men don’t
really tender true and loyal homage to flirts is, fiddle-
faddle. It’s the old cry of the wall-flower party, and is
intended as a hint at the depths of masculine devotion
that, though (hey sit out half the card, is really theirs,
you know. ; But from what I see,' the girl who flirts
annexes an early partner in the ball-room and parades up
to the altar lengths ahead of the young lady who receives
every man with a lemon-and-bitters smile—that, is, in
public, for whenever I meet her I remember the 'ancient
aphorism about “still waters” and smile kinder cynical.
A woman, writing on that dear little way some inch
have of taking our arms when walking (generally in “ leafy
lanes or moonlit stillness,” of course), mysteriously com-
plains:—“Man is rapidly ceasing to be the gallant
defender of our sex. Once upon a time we looked up to
him and rested upon his arm. Now, alas ! the tables are
turned. In the present day he idly takes our arm, while
we are obliged to take his part and our own as well.”
From which yours affectionately concludes that the
woman who wrote such fiddlesticks never had her arm
taken in all her life. For a man to offer you his arm is a
cold necessary civility of the post-matrimonial sort, lack-
ing the true inexplicable inwardness which accompanies
the art of taking your arm ; and so recognised is this fact
that when a man who isn’t already your own Augustus
does so, it will be your own fault if he’s not tenderly
installed within five short minutes. The only deplorable
inference to be deduced from this masculine offering and
taking of arms is that before marriage ho takes her arm
because he has her; but afterwards she takes his arm
because she has him. What a lot of difference there is, to
be sure, between giving your arm to a man you like and
having your arm taken by a man you like !
Someone signing herself “Lady” recently wrote a sen-
sible and straightforward letter to a Sydney paper on the
evils that attend the long hours of standing enforced upon
shop-girls. Talking to one assistant she said, “ I asked
her to sit down also while we were talking. ‘ There arc
no customers requiring attention,’ I said. ‘ It’s against,
the rules to sit down during business hours,’ she replied,
wearily.” Reads like BeSaid, doesn’t it? And so does
her simple account of the “ happy-faced ” shop-girl mar-
ried and dead within, a year—and the other with broken-
down health undergoing a severe surgical operation, both
“ martyrs to enforced standing.” It’s a thoughtful letter,
but I am afraid that nothing under a royal proclamation
would make a Sydney shopkeeper provide seats for her
assistants. A few years ago in Sydney there was a perfect
hubbub raised over the same question—a newspaper war
waged for months, and the shop-girls didn’t benefit by it
to the extent of a toadstool. The same thing may occur
again and again with no better results ; the only way to
procure seats for shop-girls is by legislation—or the boy-
cott. And women are too selfish to boycott any place
where they can buy for three-and-elevenpenoe-halfpenny
instead of for four shillings.
Dasha way (at the table, sarcastically): I
think that Brown-Sequard’s elixir might be ap-
plied with great effect to this, chicken.” Mrs.
Slimdiet (the landlady): “ Yes, and it might be
applied to your account.”—N.Y. Sun.
One of Lord Hopetoun’s private secre-
taries attended at the Customs House, and paid a
cheque for £IOOO in anticipation of the duty on
carriages, liveries, &0., which the Governor is im-
porting. This is an outcome of the debate on the
Loch diamonds.
In the new batch of N.S. Wales magis-
trates will be found the names of ex-grog-sellers,
ex-bailiffs, a city missionary in full work, a couple
of Ms.P., a tiger-slayer, a couple of medical men,
an undertaker, a tombstone artist, and a few poli-
tical hangers-on. N.S. Wales didn’t want any
more Js.P. It only wanted a lot struck off the
roll
Premier Morehead, of Queensland, in his
reply to Parkes’ federation circular, urges the
latter to accede to Victoria’s proposal that the
chosen representatives of N.S.W. shall confer on
the matter with the actual representatives of the
Federal Council simply in the character of repre-
sentatives of the several colonies for the present
purpose.
It now appears that the trouble at N.Z.
■Exhibition which resulted in Commissioner Oscar
Meyer threatening to withdraw the N.S.W. ex-
hibits was caused by a dispute arising out of the
action of an officious door-keeper, since discharged.
The official apology made in the matter was re-
garded by Mr. Meyer : as a further insult, but
matters have now been amicably arranged.
Glorious news is cabled from South
America. The Brazilian Empire is overthrown.
Thus goes the last vestige of Royalism on the
American Continent, save the tinge in Canada.
The failure to prop up a Mexican Empire in-
volved the downfall of the Brazilian. Dom
Pedro, a rather liberal-minded sovereign, had
reigned nearly 60 years. He despised Brazil and
cavorted round Europe most of his time. Thus
ho was ignorant of the forces sapping his
power. Brazil will now take its rightful
place at the head of the South American
Confederation ; otherwise Chili would have come
with a rush. The revolution is a complete
surprise. It gives a quaver to Germany and
thrills Russia. Another monarch gone. Spain
must follow suit. Brazil will profoundly influence
Spain and Portugal. Brazil joins the noble con-
fraternity of the United States and France.
Another bird will be fetched down soon some-
where. The Brazilian Revolution is largely trace-
able to the Conference of All America now sitting
at Washington. Ephtribus unum.
The Sydney Daily Telegraph people on
last Saturday evening celebrated the opening of
their now and handsome offices by a banquet at
Sydney Town Hall, to which over 300 guests were
bidden by Mr. Watkin Wynne on behalf of the
directors. Almost everybody who was anybody
was there—the lion and the lamb ate and drank
peacefully side by side; iu fact, the only thing
needed to. complete the picture of harmony and
happiness was the presence of Mr. G. R. Dibbs as
proposer of the toast of the evening, “ Success to
the Daily Telegraph.” But G.R.D. wasn’t
there; and, true to the contrariness and ingratitude
of his political nature, Premier Parkes also failed to
turn up. Mr. Curnow, editor of the S. M.
Herald, who was in particularly good form, made
the best after-dinner speech of the evening in re-
sponding to the toast of “The Press;” and Mr.
J. R. Carey, who can road a balance-sheet as
eloquently as any man in Sydney, waxed dismal
in recapitulating the glories of the company which
had been so enterprising as to give the Daily
Telegraph to the public. From a working press-
man’s point of view, the undoubted success of the
Daily Telegraph has been chiefly due to Mr, F.
W. Ward, the editor, perhaps the most considerate
and kindly man who ever managed a newspaper
staff in this country. Mr. Barton made a care-
fully-considered and telling speech on “ Australian
Unity ” towards the close of the proceedings.
VALE!
Catch the parrokeet, dear brother.
Lure the magpie to your lair.
Go and moon the agile ’possum
Nor for cages have a care:
Bustles have gone out, dear brother,
Here are two—and three—and four
Gild them with gold-paint and nail them
Close around our cottage-door.
In a positively agonised tone of write your own Sappho
rises to warn rising damsels—particularly schoolgirls who
are slaves to it—against “stick-jaw,” “chew-gum,” and
such delicacies which are the feminine equivalent for the
masculine “ chaw ”of tobacco. lam told that incessant
chewing developes the “masticatory muscles” to an
abnormal degree, and an instance has been known where
a pretty and oval-faced girl came out in a week with a
facial contour striking reminiscent of a Thomas cat’s.
For a cure, she was ordered not to move her jaws for a
lengthy period, so her recovery is most uncertain.
On dit that brother Rupert and Miss Edith Horsfall are
to be married early in December. There is an old proverb
about making hay while the sun shines.
A daily paper correspondent declaims against the use
of bearing-reins, which, he says, is becoming fashionable
in Australian streets. To me, a horse with bearing-reins
always suggests the tortured circus-wraith, and when a
well-bred arch is so obviously acquired it doesn’t impress
one even at first glance. And then these check-reins are
not only cruel but positively disable a horse, according to
the writer of the letter, who urges that the check action
cramps the local muscles and paralyses the neck-curves
which last drawback will probably carry more weight with
the owners of trussed-up cattle than a thousand agonised
periods on the poor animal’s sufferings.
Have you noticed what trashy music theatre-orchestras
play just now? The other night, at a three-act play, we
had two waltzes and a set of lancers of the most jingling .
kind and without even the virtue of novelty. At one
time the orchestra of at least one theatre usually chose
dainty moroeaux- from the best composers, and people
weren’t so anxious to escape between the acts ; but to sit
still and listen as we do now to a jigging band-organ tune
when the last scene w itnessed has been, perhaps, of a
soul-rending description is quite enough to put an entire
audience out of temper.
Two of the great sights in Sydney just now are the opal
jewellery in Elkington’s window and the photograph in
which a well-advertised theatrical lady appears in tight
classical drapery. Oh my !
At Newtown Trocadero the “All Nations Bazaar” haS
been running all the week. Most of the girls I noticed
were got up to resemble Essie Jenyns as Juliet, but the
male element for some reason or other was badly re-
presented. As a consequence every young man had about
a dozen begging Juliets around him all the time. The
inevitable may-pole dance was one of the attractions.
I have just been reading a thrilling treatise on how
to prevent wrinkles, everywhere but on the elbows,
of course. Condensed, the prescription is : Never frown,
never pucker your brows (Lilian Seccombe please note),
never raise your eyebrows—a habit often contracted quite
early, but which leaves across the brows long lines which
add five years to a face. Don’t smile. Don’t read or
work at night, and finally, keep as well as you can. Quite
easy on paper, isn’t it ? I think I’d rather smile or pucker
when I felt like it, and fall back on pearl-powder when the
creases began.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Patience.”
Her Majesty's “The Royal Guard.
Criterion “Diplomacy.
School op Arts Picturesque Concerts.
Cycloram A Battle of Gettysburg.
Palace Museum Reality and Illusion.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera House “ Antony and Cleopatra.”
Princess’ ** Little Lord Ftinntleroy.
Theatre Royal “ The Irish Detective.
Alexandra “ Sultan of Mocha.
St. George's Hall Cogill Bros, and Coy.
Victoria Hall Novelty Company
Cyclorama “ Battle of Waterloo.
The “ Ticket-of-Leave-Man,” at Sydney
Royal, on Saturday last, was preluded by an
apology from Stage-Manager Jones for the non-
appearance of Maggie Knight, into which he im-
ported a drivelling and disjointed reference to his
manly performance as an Englishman of an un-
pleasant duty- this being accompanied by a quick
glance at the gubernatorial box which betrayed the
source that inspired the extraordinary oration. Miss
Edwards was therefore impersonated “at twenty
minutes notice,” it was said, by the generously-pro-
portioned Edith Blande, who confesses to having
played a somewhat different version 18 months ago.
Her performance was creditable. As Sam Wil-
loughby, whose trousers hems were turned up in
honour of the vice-regal presence— which, by the
way, had failed to fill the dress-circles —Jennie Lee
was saucy and smart, occasionally pathetic, and
throughout not too much in evidence. The
garrulous Mrs. Willoughby was carefully played
by Mrs. Hill ; as Robert Brierly, J. H. Clyndes
was scarcely so good as his reputation promised,
his Lancashire dialect being occasionally turned off
at the main. A. R. Laurence’s Jem Dalton was
good in spots, his best work being when, disguised
as a merchant, he outwits Buckett Hawkshaw
Burnett, Esq. Why Mr. Jennie Lee does not
devote himself to dialect parts is not obvious ; his
make up, his change of voice and fine Shude-hill
accent as Ginger Bill was about the best thing of
the evening. The MossMelterof George Walton,
at first a chaos in which a white-faced nigger-min-
strel struggled for colloquial supremacy with a large
hoofed music-hall Irishman, gradually assumed a
Hebraic homogeneity that assuaged our longings
to borrow a gun. Edwin Kelly, who as the Earl
of Bogland, had resembled the manager of a loan,
mortgage and discount bank was a representative
Gibson. The injured-innocence and virtue-eyen-
tually-triumphant stage commodity is rapidly
becoming stale; why Jennie Lee, who sings so
sweetly and dances gracefully, does not once more
try burlesque—say Jack Sheppard, an old part
is a mystery that we shall not attempt to solve.
She benefits on Friday, the last night of her
season, and on Saturday the Opera Company,
returning from Brisbane, will re-open for a season
of two weeks in “Patience,” when the long-
bottled-up Clara Merivale will give poor, neglected
Sydney a taste of her quality.
# * *
Leaving the theatre on the breast of a
crowd rushing for tram, steamer, and closing-up
pubs., egress was rendered impossible, without
violence, by a gaping mob, twenty deep on each
side, who reverently eyed the strip of carpet that
would protect the gubernatorial bootsoles, the
gorgeous flunkeys, the state coach, and all the
other Imperial paraphernalia, while patiently
awaiting the coming of the vice-regal demigods.
On getting outside, our feelings were mollified by
the disappointed “ Oh, it’s only the Governor !” of
a festive-looking young woman who had rushed up
expecting to see at least a bad case of alcoholic
epilepsy, or two bull-pups at work on each other’s
legs and ears.
* * *- *
“Diplomacy” continues to fill Sydney
Criterion. Everyone has somewhat improved on
their initial performances, especially Mrs. Brough,
who appears to have fully discovered her weak
points. Percy Lyndal, who has evidently seen
irving, is, however, not much better yet, thank
you. He still considers that rigidity of limb is
strong outward evidence of emoticn, and retreats
and advances as though on wooden legs, with one
hand firmly pressed to his burning brow and the
other wildly roaming space in search of employ-
ment. “ Little Ern’ly ”is in active preparation,
but a revival of the “ Squire ” may take place
before its representation.
» * -& *
An attempt to make the second part of a
minstrel entertainment the medium for cigarette-
puffing was resented by the hissing of the
audience at Sydney Opera House, on Monday
evening last. After the interval a young female
person came on gorgeously arrayed in the_ stars
and stripes and decorated with a sash, which in
front, as behind, bore the name of the commodity to
be vaunted. After a futile attempt to dance, an
equally feeble effort to sing, and an asinine attempt
to smoke, the female placard retired hurriedly,
and the company’s agent, who had come provided
with flowers for her glorification, was eventually
compelled to shy them at a fat man with a pink
stomach, who also advertised the wares, but only
in a half-hearted, quarter-voiced way.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s Theatre that fortunate
animal, the “Flying Scud,” will, on Friday
evening, be scratched for all engagements, in order
to let Fred. Thorne display his talent as D’Artag-
nan in the “Royal Guard,” an adaptation of
Dumas’ “Three Musketeers,” on Saturday. If
the play in any way resembles the novel. Sydney
theatre-goers have a treat in store.
» -*- *
The Perron-Fitzroy season, the most suc-
cessful in this line of business Sydney has known
for years, ends on Saturday evening, when the
professor and his “ missus ” will proceed to
astonish the natives further north.
** * *
Solomon’s Palace Museum has come to
stay. The short performances by Magician
Jensen, the girl-shot, the piano-playing of Ida
Nelson, the fortune-telling of the gipsy queen,
and the demoniac music of the electric orchestra
provides the happy variety performance that does
not put the hayseeds to sleep.
** * *
The Cyclorama still intercepts its share o
the public money. The for some time contem
plated shilling week-night will shortly occur.
** * *
At Bondi Aquarium Professor Wyman, o‘
New York, has been skating on his head, his
heels, on stilts and bicycle wheels, in fact on every-
thing but his ear. He also slides from the top of
the building down a 400 ft. plank without picking
up a splinter.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
American Elgin Watches, Awarded two
Gold Medals, Melbourne Centennial International
Exhibition, 1888, being higher awards than any
other Exhibition of Watches obtained.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho s Baking Powder.
G. B. Modini, of 602 George-street. Syd-
ney, has been appointed sole agent for Charles
Boswell, the celebrated gunmaker of 126 Strand,
London.
The fight for seats at Melbourne Princess’s still
rages, and the moneyocracy of Toorak becomes
more and more impregnated with an inane belief in
Old Nobility. Yet the play weakens on acquaint-
ance; The character of his little lordship is trans-
parently feminine in conception and interpreta-
tion. Again, there is something preposterous in
the notion of a doting mother faking up her
darling in the guise of a pantomime prince in order
that he may play at shove-ha’penny with a shoe-
black, and practise his arts and graces upon a
chandler’s shop proprietor. The inflated kid
doesn’t run on possible lines at any point of the
narrative.- He (which is a she) can only be
found on the lid of French - lolly boxes, or
dangling; from a Christmas tree. His dearest
mamma is likewise a fragile, affected delusion, and
the most human creature on this demoralising
job is the old Dorineourt. Mr. Edwards gives a
masterly performance of this part. He realises
the average peer-a man made contemptible by
birth, education, and family tradition, rather than
by Nature. Nature frequently gives peers a
chance to be worthy objects, but family acres and
grovel are against them from the start. And the
accidental softening of this aged sinner’s heart is
supposed to justify his hereditary position and
fee-simple in several miles of God’s earth, although
at his regenerated beet he is merely a common-
place sample of a dodderer who never accomplished
a useful work with brains or hands during the
whole course of an overfed career. In short,
“ Little Lord Fauntleroy” attempts to establish
the feudal fiction that earls are a great power for
good in our social system, instead of driving home
the fact that they stand between humanity and
the Light. Are Gracie Hopkins and Olive Berk-
ley—pretty little sugar-plums ! —both listening ?
‘ ‘ Antony and Cleopatra, ” on the other
hand, proves beyond dispute that plain Marc, in
his simple white shirt, was a lot better Roman
than the voluptuary who sank to be an emperor,
and gave way to “gaudy nights.” He certainly
does make a warlike spurt in the last act, and
pretends to go shrieking for belud in a suit of
glittering armour, yet he never fights anybody
that you can see. His faithful followers come on
and swear the Emperor has been cutting of ’em
down something cruel, but they are probably
gammoning, with a view to perpetual pensions
and emoluments. Regal splendour had ruined
poor old Marc by that time, and he bolted from
the fray as fast as the Dook of Cambridge, only
the Dook hadn’t enough grit left to ask another
fellow to wipe him out for ever with a dagger too
blunt to penetrate a cheese. Professor Miller
keeps on killing another Egyptian slave stone-
dead every evening, the music, singing and supers,
grow upon the senses, and the scenery continues
to surpass anything witnessed at the Opera House
within the memory of John Hennings’ Sphinx."
* * * *
Grattan Riggs and his “ Shaughraun ” are
running a second week at the Royal. On Satur-
day he will fulfil his destiny by appearing in the
“ Irish Detective,” an always welcome chestnut
which is part of his very being. “ The Sultan of
Mocha ” seems to have caught on satisfactorily at
the Alexandra, and ladies, especially, are deeply
interested in an auction sale of fair Circassians,
who are ultimately knocked down to the Sultan
in one lot. This jewelled unbeliever must be very
trying to the ladies of the harem, because he
drags out a miserable existence in singing “ Sultan
am I—not a bit shy—look at my eye.” The poet
Parkes could throw off a better ballad than that,
if they gave him the order six months in advance.
However, there is no other comic opera in Mel-
bourne, so the “Sultan of Mocha” supplies a
want at very reasonable prices. At the Alexandra
—as a local critic would write —“ you get some-
thing of the comic and the tuneful in a sort of
manner, and you have brightness and dresses, as
they say. Then you get the groupings, so to
speak ; there is appropriate staging of the sort
which pleases, and what more can you want, as
you may express it ?”
* * * *
The Coghill’s show at St. George's Hall is
getting along nicely, and things look hopeful at
the renovated Yic. The Silbqns are making raids
upon country districts, the Midgets have scooted.
Wirth has folded up his circus and stolen silently
away to New Zealand, but the beautiful Cyolorama
is as immutable as the laws of the Medes and
Persians which used to live for ever. Kreitmayer
is gradually bringing back his waxworks to their
old haunts, and the recent deluge has extinguished
Messrs. Pain and Brook for the nonce, “ The
nonce ” reads well, but goodness only knows what
it means.
* * * *
Miss Janet Achurch has commenced a
season at Adelaide Royal in “The New Mag-
dalen,” but so far this old and faded drama has
not brought very happy results. There has been
no special enthusiasm over Miss Aehurch’s acting
as Mercy Merrick, although Miss Maud William-
son has found favour for her impersonation of
Grace Roseberry. Mr. Charrington has failed to
make a very heavy impression as the Rev. Julian
Gray, and the remaining members of the company
do not get into prominence. Herbert Flemming
has arrived to strengthen the forces which badly
need aid. A double bill, “ Written In Sand ’’ and
“Pygmalion and Galatea,” next with “In His
Power,” to follow.
The Perth people has been thrown into a
state of great excitement by Miss Yon Finkel-
stein, the only eminent lecturer that ever visited
Western Australia. Hundreds of people are
turned away. As for the “Much Travelled”
they are delighted that he should have included
Swan River in his travels, and think of purchasing
him for the Perth Museum, which at present is
very poor in interesting specimens of natural
history.
Sing ugh, the wooden Tory
Is exulting in the glory
Of a “Fauntleroy Furore ”
(As advertisements would say).
He delights to sit and snivel
At the infant lordling’s drivel—
Ah ! it must have been the divil
Who suggested such a play—
For the plot is meretricious,
And the moral’s so pernicious ;
True, the little girl’s delicious —
(Very pert, and plump, and fair),
But it’s sad, indeed, to see her
Make the toadies drop a tear
When she acts the sucking peer
With a curly head of hair.
At Poverty Point.
In the “ Dead Heart” the duel between Landry (Irving)
and the Abb6 Latqur (Bancroft) is fought with sabres.
The former is such a consummate broad-sword fencer that
he lets Bancroft lay on with all his might and how ho
likes, while he calmly defends himself against the attack,
which is never twice alike.
At a recent first-night of “ musical-faroe-comedy ” an
American reporter sent in his card to the musical acrobat
—who sang from her back teeth in pink fleshings and a low
bodice—bearing this inscription: “ Being a newspaper
man as well as a journalist, I am obliged to listen to your
singing, but if I were an usher with six nights of this
agony before me, I would go out and drink myself to
death.”
Watts Phillips, author of the clever little woman now
playing Lord Woodbie, at Sydney Her Majesty’s, and the
“ Dead Heart,” now being played at London Lyceum and
shortly, perhaps, to be produced by Mr. Rignold, was
best known as an artist, and was the editor, the leading
cartoonist, and the chief prose and verse contributor to
Diogenes, a now defunct paper started by John Bright to
counteract the warlike tendencies of Punch. For the
“ Dead Heart,” first produced at the Adelphi, he received
£lOO ; to-day, such a drama would possibly return him
£lO,OOO. His last production was “ Amos Cloak.”
Minnie Palmer gets in London not £2OO per week salary,,
but £75.
An inexplicable chttnk of dramatic criticism from Mel-
bourne Standard : “ The character of D’Artagnan was, of
course, the feature of the evening—in fact, it was literally
the lever des rideaux."
“ Ah,” mused the museum-manager, as he drew his
cheque for 70dols. in payment of a pair of corsets for the
biggest fat woman in America, “say what they may,
they’ve got no female star on the histrionic stage of
to-day that can crowd these and the house as well.”—Ex.
Kate Alma is playing in America with the old Jed
Prouty Company and getting much marmalade.
Sara Bernhardt is finishing a bust of her late husband
Not the same bust that finished him.
Irving is getting fat. Manager Irving had always, in
spite of his personal leanness, leanings towards actor
Irving in that direction.
Marie de Grey, in “Sybil,” at Terry’s Theatre lately,
made one of the,most exquisite mistakes ever committed
on a stage. She, as “the adventuress,” reviles the hero
of the play as a “modern Bayard, sans ptre (!) et sans
reproche.” This is a perfectly lovely item.
PHOTO BY .CHARLEMONT, SYDNEY.
MISS PATTIE BROWNE.
In Henry Dixey’s Baby Van Loo, in the “ Seven Ages,
at New York Standard Theatre, there is a realistic repre-
sentation of infantile stomach-ache that sends married
men “ off to the club.”
After fencing and coquetting, Fred. Leslie has with-
drawn his burlesque of Irving, in ballet skirts, at the
Gaiety Theatre, in “Ruy Bias.” Irving was furious.
Raynham, the manager, said he would have withdrawn it
at once had Irving written to him, instead of to Leslie, a
mere artiste in his employ.
Some folks have a drink between the acts, others see an
act between drinks.
The agent of Barnum’s “Olympian” has brought to
London from N.Y. 200 tons of picture-posters. The
biggest bill is 100 ft. long and 12ft. high.
Hotel-keeper Haxell, of London, has produced at a
theatre opposite his pub. a wretched play called “ Sybil.”
The Hawk says that if he had an eye to biz. between acts
it was a huge success, for no audience ever rushed out so
quickly between acts.
“ Pendragon ” says that the unlucky Watts-Phillips was
a far greater man than Wilkie Collins, and, furthermore,
asserts that Irving’s production of the former’s “ Dead
Heart ” is a sexless namby-pamby thing, all its native
robustness having been emasculated in deference to the
gentility of his “polite patrons.”
The Persian Ambassador at London lately asked to be
introduced to a Parisian premiere danseuse with whose
dancing he has been enchanted. The lady was presented
and the Prince remarked that “ he did not know her with
her clothes on!”
There is much talk in Melbourne of an alleged attempt
made by Miln to bring Essie Jenyns back to the stage.
A Sydney entrepreneur, disappointed in not receiving
notices from a certain evening paper, wrote to the man-
ager asking for an explanation. He soon got one. That
gentleman candidly informed him that the Howl was con-
ducted solely on commercial principles, and that a paltry
inch advertisement did not invite criticisms. That paper
is struck off the free-list.
A new comic opera “ The Castle of Como,” by a son of
Cookie, the pill-man (and nephew', by the way, of Sir
James Cockle, the ex-Chief Justice of Queensland), is an-
nounced for early production. Cookie owns an Italian
estate, and is known there as Count Cookalini; at least so
his friends aver. His opera is already nicknamed the
“ Castle of Como.”
A son of Ellen Terry (by her first husband, Watts, R.A.)
appears on the stasre, under the name of Gordon Craig, in
“ The Dead Heart”—a play written by the father of Miss
Watts-Phillips, of Sydney Her Majesty’s—at the Lyceum.
He is a tall youth of about 18 years of age, with a large,
open face, a very fair complexion, and a profusion of
light golden hair. By the way, an Australian, now in
London, on visiting Watts’ studio, a few years ago, saw
there a portrait, which he (not knowing that the painter
had divorced the actress) off-handedly characterised as
being “ rather like Ellen Terry.” Watts said nothing.
A hat that will shut up has been invented for ladies’
wear at theatres. It is a relief to have something about
the ladies that will shut up anywhere.
Alice Dunning Lingard’s daughter is about to marry in
London, it is said. Yet people have not ceased to adore
Alice herself.
As a contrast to the London Gaiety girls, with their
high kicks and lace frills and flounces, Senora Carmenoita,
a beautiful and sylphlike Spanish girl, has appeared in
New York. She is the greatest success of the modern
ballet, and yet she appears in a dress high at the neck
and down to her heels. Signora Carmenoita comes on
the stage in a robe of a glistening pink texture with some
pretty fripperies on her arms and neck, and her raven
black hair in long, low coils around her head. A smile
discloses her dazzling white teeth, and her black eyes
flash like suns. There is no doubt of her youth—some
20 years —and there is something deliciously coy in the
way she bows to the wondering audience and begins her
gyrations of body. Says she, philosophically enough:
“ . . . After all, it is surfeit that destroys appetite.
I, as a woman, have always wondered why people should
like to look at an army of women in flesh-coloured tights,
except as a spectacle of colour afforded by the rest of
their scanty raiment and the scenic environments. One
woman, perhaps, or even two when their shapes contrast,
but a dozen or a hundred—pshaw ! . . . Just let your
very good societies rave of the indelicacy of the ballet all
they want, a woman in a sack who can roll her eyes pro-
perly is far more dangerous.”
Sims Reeves, in his Reminiscences, gives a curious ac-
count of the daily life of a certain foreign singer in
England 40 years ago, as related by the latter’s agent, a
certain Herr Schloss:—
“ How does the great man get through the day?” was
asked of Herr Schloss.
“ Yell, he sing,” was the reply.
“ Yes ; but what else ? He does not sing all day.”
“ Veil, he get up in ze morning, he have breakfasht,
mit a goot shlioe of German shausage, and he eat vera
moch. Then he schmoke ; and ven he finish sohmoke he
lie down again. Zen he schmoke again. He sohmoke
vera moch. After zat, he dine. He eat vera moch, and
drink moch shtout. Zen he lie down and repose himself,
zat he may get strength to sing in ze evening. And after
he sing he have supper, and again he eat very mooh and
drink moch shtout. Zo it go on day by day. He get up
in ze morning, put on his clothes, and ”
“ When does he take his bath ?”
“ Oh, he never vash himself.”
Sims Reeves tells a story about Macready and G. V.
Brooke when playing Othello and lago together at Bir-
mingham. Macready was dissatisfied with the stage-
position taken by Brooke at rehearsal: —
“ Be good enough to stand there, Sir,” he exclaimed,
indicating a particular spot.
Mr. B. went sufficiently near, but did not stand on the
precise spot which Macready had in his eye.
“ There, Sir ; I said there !” he exclaimed,
lago changed his position, but somehow did not succeed
in standing exactly where Othello wished to see him.
“ Bring a nail, carpenter,” cried Macready at last, “ a
nail and a piece of chalk.”
The carpenter brought the nail, drove it into the boards
and with the piece of chalk made a small circle round it.
“There, sir, there can be no mistake now,” cried
Macready ; “let us go on with the rehearsal.”
lago stood firmly, perhaps too- firmly, on the spot
marked out for him, but Macready was satisfied, and all
went well. When, however, in the evening, the perform-
ance took place, the first scene between lago and Othello
was played with variations, which took the public by sur-
prise. Instead of looking at Othello, lago gazed inquisi-
tively on the ground, walked to and fro, and appeared
lost in an anxious search for some object he could not
discover. At last Maoready’s patience, never of a very
enduring kind, gave way, and he called out:
“Mr. Brooke, for God’s sake be quiet; what are you
doing ?”
“ I am looking for the nail, Mr. Macready,” replied Mr.
Brooke, in a stentorian voice.
Says N.Y. World: “A pie which struck him in the
face has again caused James Owen O’Connor to abandon
the stage.”
Simonsen’s opera season at Dunedin closed after the
first performance of “Maritana.” The show was most
adversely criticised.
H. B. Farnie died recently in Paris.
‘ Held by the Enemy ” Decker goes to America § n"
CORRESPONDENCE
“J.N.E (1.) No. (2.) Ever since the
framing of the Constitution. (3.) Federation has been
advocated by Lang, Dihbs, M'llwraith, and fifty others,
over and over again. ..“Anthony Mongan”: We can't
afford space for a tithe of the illogical letters we receive-
Delaware, the smallest Union State, is the only State
where flogging is a recognised legal punishment; and
even Delaware only flogs for wife-beating. The whole
tendency of modern thought is against torture. You
might as well argue for the thumbscrew as the lash
“Fair Play”: (1.) Certainly, if proved, disqualification
should always follow crooked running. (2.) If the runner
has not performed during the two years prior to entry he
must state (in writing) his last three performances. (3.)
The starting of firsts and seconds in the final,
unless stated in the local rules, is now at variance
with custom. (4.) Avoid the law, if possible
“ Glebe Point ” : We hold no stock in feminine fighters.
Woman’s natural weapon is her tongue.... “Morah ” :
Next week, if not this “ F.T.” : The paper in question
is not compiled of original matter ; even most of its
pictures are reproduced from other publications. Are
dealing with the question for next week,..." France ”
Lines smooth, fluent-snapless ...“Constant Reader”
(N. S. Gazette) : jMany thanks.... “ J.M.” (Greymouth) :
Letter referred to “Adam Bede.”. “A. Smith”
(Bourke): Beach beat Ross on the Thames in ’B6
“William Cummings” (Reefton, N.Z.): Many thanks.
Already noticed “Evan Dhu”: “Don’t insert”; but
we do, nevertheless. Our w.p. basket, since Sheol was
abolished, is the only bottomless pit.... “Stockman’s
Song”: Rhymes faulty; rhythm break-neck “J. M.
Clayton ”: Sorry it our correspondent misrepresented the
facts of the case “ A.L.E.” (Armidale) : Sketches
should be drawn on white Bristol board in Indian ink....
“W.A.E.”: The aspirations of Young Australia are to-
wards the Federal Republic, not towards the Dominion.
When Federation is accomplished, Young Australia hopes
to see each state elect its own Governor as a prelude to
the time when the respective states will elect the untitled
President who will supplant the English Governor-General
or whatever he may be called. The establishment in Aus-
tralia of a Dominion with a Royal Prince at the head of a
Court and an English Governor with a retinue of English
peers in each state, and a constantly-increasing list of
titled Australians, will further politically corrupt Aus-
tralia. The Bulletin hopes to see Australia hold off from
any scheme which will involve the exposure of the yet un-
educated public mind to the insidious social and political
influences of royalty and vice-royalty. The chief advan-
tage of Protection against the world will be its tendency
to foster a spirit of self-dependence and Nationalism
“ C.C.” : The paper is in error. Mr. Simpson is eminent
at common law. The new judge was required to be an
equity specialist. In Great Britain the Attorney-General
has the first claim to a vacant judgeship. Not so in Aus
tralia.. .“Republican”: Many thanks....“ Invisible ” :
Mr. Jonson, whose advertisement is in Bulletin.,..
“ Fosoo” : While there are weak-minded people and
heavy misfortunes there will be suicides. The man who
shoots himself because a turf-speculation turned out un-
fortunately would probably, had he been a clergyman,
have killed himself after an unlucky land-deal following
a series of poor collections “T. J.L.” (Adelaide);
Many thanks. [Many letters held over.]
“Augur” asserts in the Australasian
that had Melos received fair play in the Cup he
would have won easily.
Good old Cummings has again won the
mile championship by defeating Darrin, who fell
at the finish, in 4min. 29 3-sth sec.
Almost with his dying breath Wilkie
Collins said ; “I want a simple funeral and no
feathers, no crape, no forms nor ceremonies.”
A. Sandhurst school-boy opened a 15s. book
on Melbourne Cup, but believing in the stories
about Bravo’s lameness, he peppered him to the
extent of £3 to 4s. He has not attended school
lately, and the other boys have “posted” him as
a welsher on every fence in the locality.
Editor Bulletin.—Sir, —l have much pleasure
in stating that having drawn the winner of the Caulfield
Cup I received by return of post £843 10s. from “ Adam
Bede.” I have to commend the manner in which “ Adam
Bede” draws his sweeps, and the unvarying fairness of
his consultations. Yours truly, Edward Siibperd. Dun-
lop Station, N.S. Wales, 28th October, 1889.
It is now alleged that the bookmaker who
laid a fortune against Bravo backed the horse in
again, and was weeping for very joy—not grief—
after the race. To the casual observer, one kind
of tear is exactly like the other. It would be
interesting to put a sample of each under a
microscope and search for differences in the
eye-water bacteria. Perhaps one sort would have
their little tails down, while the opposition
waggled ’em in triumph. Doosid good subject
for a scientific pamphlet.
We have received from Tattersall the fol-
lowing straight-forward statement; —
The following are the names and addresses of persons
who drew placed horses in our Caulfield Cup and Mel-
bourne Cup Consultations of 1889: —Caulfield Cup,
£lO,OOO. —J. Black, South Rakaia, Canterbury, New Zea-
land, £2700; S. Stamland, e.o. Harris and Co., Lullimur,
Victoria, £lOBO ; F. Grittin, Lands Department, Sydney,
N.S.W., £540. Melbourne Cup, £60,000. —Duggan and
Walsh, Swansea, near Newcastle, N.S.W., £22,500 ; Brown
and Co., Milparinka, N.S.W., £4500 ; J. G. Stuart,
Engineer-in-Ohiof’s Office, Adelaide, S.A.. £lBOO. No. 1
10,000. —A. H. Barclay, 19 Post-office Chambers, Pitt-
street, Sydney, N.S.W., £4500; R. B. Ray son, c.o. T.
Oates, ’Bus Company, Harris-street, Ultimo, Sydney,
N.S.W., £1800; R. Dowling, Condong, Tweed River,
N.S.W., £9OO. No. 2 10,000. B. Lynch, 30 Kent-street,
Sydney, N.S.W., £ll4B Bs. ; W. Haly, Queensland National
Bank, Thursday Island, Queensland, £459 7s. ; Mr.
Sachs, Union Club, Brisbane, Queensland, £229 13s. Cd.
No. 1 2000.-T. Jones, 370 Riley street, Surry Hills,
Sydney, N.S.W., £9OO ; F. Kendal, 0.0. W. J. Osbaldstone,
Wangaratta, Victoria, £270; W. Crew, Castledoyle, via
Armidale, N.S.W., £lBO. No 2 2000.—G. S. Brown.
Patents Office, Chancery Square, Sydney, N.S.W., £OO9
15s. ; Mrs. Dwyer, Warrendine, Orange, N.S.W., £lB2
18s. 6d. ; O. Taylor, Melbourne Coal Co,, 25 King-street,
Melbourne, Victoria, £l2l 19s.
A bold British bruiser, named Smith,
He put on the boxing-gloves with
An awful black nigger,
Who made his head bigger—
And he hasn’t done anything sith.


WOI»FS’S SCEMIFPS!
» » — l - -
Be on your guard for FRAUDS when purchasing.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Wife (arousing husband) : “ Smith !
There’s a burglar downstairs.” Husband (drow-
sily) :“ Is there? Well, keep quiet; perhaps he’ll
strangle your mother.”
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
Si ven for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing,
►ress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
IBS.)
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 00 Bathurst-street. Sydney.
Lady Loch’s Diamonds their History
and Mystery.
An appalling exhibition of humbug, snob-
bery, official chicanery, and representative lying
has resulted from that “ spontaneous token of
love and esteem ” which a perfumed clique of
sassiety conspirators presented to Lady Loch, on
the sinful pretence that it came from the people of
Victoria.
# * #
In discussing the later phases of this Loch
Presentation scandal -such a small, such a mere
jeweller’s-shop affair at the outset —newspaper
commentators have carefully refrained from point-
ing out that the wire-pullers had been shuffling,
prevaricating, jobbing, and lying, from start to
finish, under Government patronage and protec-
tion. Be it our task to make this important fact
—far more important than the original squabble as
to whether Lady Loch’s precious diamonds should
be bought here, there, or somewhere else —plain to
the meanest understanding. The Bulletin, as it
happens, was the only paper, circulating in Mel-
bourne, to declare that no duty would be claimed
ou Lady Loch’s baubles, and it was not until we
had ridiculed the possibility of straight-dealing in
such a vice-regal transaction that a question was
asked in the Legislative Assembly. But, to begin
the indictment.
# * *
A number of distinguished citizens of
Melbourne, namely a proportion of those who are
distinguished for seeking inane pleasures at
Govingment ’Ouse, subscribed about £l7OO towards
a token of love for dear Lady Loch. The collec-
tion was taken up by Benjamin Benjamin, who
was largely abetted, in this congenial act of
greasing the fat porker, by an equally pon-
derous and humourless Scotchman named James
Macßain. The former was Mayor of Melbourne
at the time, and the latter is President of the
Legislative Council, or some creation of that
description. Neither does much else than make
drivelling little speeches about the Queen, and
His Excellency, at an everlasting round of
luncheons, foundation-stones, banquets,
and inaugural ceremonies. From one year’s end
to another they spin the same old yarn to the same
old people, a stray “distinguished visitor” being
occasionally dropped into the monotony of their
official feeds. But we are digressing. During the
regime of the Lochs these two shocking examples
of what constitutes a “leading man”—daily press
“ leading man ” —were knighted by their Queen at
the instigation of Governor Loch. They were
made knights, and in their gratitude they directly
and indirectly, after the methods of testimonial-
mongers, subscribed a good lot of this token of
love between their two selves. Nearly three-
fourths of the whole token of love came from titled
individuals and their family connections, and this
shows how the great heart of the entire population
must have been stirred.
# # *
Having about £l7OO in hand, Benjamin
and Macßain, flanked by a posse of would-be
Primrose dames, perpetrated a hollow mockery by
calling a meeting of subscribers, and deciding to
send to Europe for a token set in diamonds. They
put their badly-built heads together, and further
proposed and carried unanimously that Lady
Lytton should buy diamonds to the amount of
£lOOO. Now, it doesn’t require an abnormal brain
to grasp the fact that Benjamin and Macßain had re-
ceived special permission to import the diamonds free
of duty, otherwise they couldn’t give Lady Lytton
such a large order on the funds available. They
saw some other leading citizen and “made it all
right.” They got authority from somewhere to
work a little job on the revenue. After this first
meeting the local jewellers and their friends raised
a howl about the shame of sending all this bloated
capital out of the country, and the result was a
second meeting, carefully managed, at which the
original resolution was confirmed. In high official
circles everything always is confirmed sooner or
later. Then a few blatherskites began to dimly
understand that there wasn’t enough tokens of love
in hand to pay duty on the brilliants when they
arrived at the Customs. So they cackled and
cackled until a question was asked in the Assem-
bly concerning the admission of Lady Loch’s
jewellery, to which Mr. J. B. Patterson replied
that duty would be chargeable in the usual course.
No member of the Government rose up to dispute
the public right to claim duty. Mr. Patterson’s
announcement was allowed to go forth unchal-
lenged, but Sirs Benjamin and M'Bain revolved
in their own orbits with their distinguished
tongues in their representative cheeks. The lead-
ing ladies of title also simpered around with an air
of possessing a secret hidden from the vulgar mul-
titude.
* * #
Lady Loch’s jewels were nearly due when
a final meeting of subscribers was called, and to-
wards the close of this greasy function a rash stock-
broker wanted to know whether Benjamin and
Macßain intended to pay the necessary duty out
of their own pockets. Whereupon Benjamin
spread himself out in turkey-fashion and told
the stockbroker not to bother about that, because
that would be all right. Here we pause to insinuate
that the official notice of all right is apt to be in-
iquitously all wrong. No matter, a time will come.
The circumstances under which Lady Loch’s jewels
arrived in Victoria have been naively laid bare in
an Argus paragraph, as follows : —“The Premier
received a letter from the Agent-General (one Sir
Graham Berry, an exploded delusion) informing
him that by the same mail he would receive a
packet from Lady Lytton addressed to Sir Ben-
jamin Benjamin. The Premier sent for Sir B. B.
and a Customs officer. When they arrived at the
Premier’s office |the packet was opened, and the
diamonds were found in it. The Premier then
directed the officer to carry out his duty (outrage-
ous farce!), and that officer demanded that the
duty should be paid, or, failing that, that the
jewellery should be placed in bond. Sir Benjamin
wrote out a cheque for £325 and handed it
to the officer. At the same time Sir Benjamin
inquired if it was not usual when jewellery was
merely imported for presentation purposes, and
was within a few days taken again out of the
colony, to return the duty to the person who paid
it. The Customs officer replied that that teas the
custom (Heaven forgive the officer !), whereupon
Mr. Gillies said that if the usual practice was fol-
lowed in this instance he would not interfere.”
Surely a thinner cloak of humbug was never
thrown over a more trumpery job. Gillies bidding
the officer do his duty, and Benjamin demurely
enquiring if he would be allowed to get his cheque
back —when his every previous move in this
transaction proves that Gillies and he had things
cut and dried beforehand.
Somehow the story of official hanky-panky with
the diamonds leaked out, and the little Herald
printed it in a special edishun. Then came the
notorious row in the Assembly, forcing Mr. J. B.
Patterson to proclaim that “it is the usual prac-
tice to return duty under such circumstances as
attend this case, ” yet scarcely having conscience to
stick to the awful “cram.” Patterson’s sense told
him that Benjamin and Macßain were in the posi-
tion of importers, executing an order for people
who were about to give the goods away to some-
body else. How could Benjamin get drawback on
jewels that would be handed to a body of sub-
scribers who would give them to Lady Loch to
take away with her? Yet this job had been
intended all along.
The fat being now in the fire, several members
of the Government became alarmed. So, next
day, the Minister of Customs went back on his
last assertion and carried out his promise of some
weeks before by paying Benjamin’s cheque into
the Consolidated Fund. It was altogether a
comical case of arrested jobbery. Any man bar
Benjamin must have seen the humour of the
situation, but Benjamin, being the dullest magnate
in Christendom, as destitute of healthy fun as is a
mussel that sticks to the keel of an ironclad,
merely fell into a profuse perspiration and said
the Government was breaking faith with him.
Had not Gillies called him up to his private room,
and there, in the sacred presence of a Customs
officer, said that he would not interfere with
the usual practice ? Bah ! Observe how they all
left off pretending that it was right and honest to
return this duty, and what shrivelled-up objects
they all became when the limelight of publicity
was thrown upon their pretty little arrangement.
Gillies spoke his las t official word about the diamonds
in his private room, and lacked the hardihood to
attempt to exculpate himself in the Assembly.
His Excellency Loch put the finishing touch to
this disgusting picture by sending a cheque for
£325 to Gillies, knowing, as well as he ever knew
anything in his life, that Gillies would send the
money back and inform the Press of his Excel-
G ° a bl^s C^i ? orr, e ,r) A Ub^A)tA
Y fD E RATION]
j_o ** cl
C^r-.r^O+O^
“And hardly more than a month ago a fine specimen of an Australian baby
joined my own family circle.”
lency’s “graceful act.” When Loch did get it
back, he posted it again to Benjamin, for him to
refuse and inform the good old Press. Up to time
of writing it is not anticipated that the people of
Melbourne will roll up like one man and refund
Benjamin his £325 duty on Lady Loch’s diamonds.
Whatever is done we shall regard it with sus-
picion. A Certain moral contamination clings to
the whole business, and if Lady Loch can tell the
truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth,
while that presentation necklace glitters on her
bosom, then she must be a good woman—good
enough to give St. Cecilia two stone and a beating.
The author of an Even Noose tale signs
himself “ Rice Farley.” For a cereal story “Rice
Barley ” would have been twice as appropriate.
Thomas Carrol, lately before the Silverton
(N.S.W.) Bench, is charged with lunacy. Accused,
who is from Milparinka, imagines he is in hell.
A most excusable delusion in a Milparinka man.
BIT OF SCANDAL.
Oar ladies’ man heard the following conversa-
tion between two young and good-looking ladies in
a suburban train yesterday : —First Lady: “ That’s
a sad affair about Mrs. eloping with her hus-
band’s coachman. What could have been the
reason?” Second Lady : “ Don’t you know? It's
the talk of the town. Her hubby refused to
furnish her with a bottle of the famous St. Louis
Lager Beer, and the coachman offered to supply
her wants. A reason weighty, strong and
effectual.”
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whits
Patknt Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
A Silverton pioneer now visiting Johan-
nesburg declares that half-a-dozen Ballarats lie
around that busy mining centre.
Mr. Thomas Mills, the well-known wealthy
Charters Towers reefer, has declared against union
labour thus: —
If I am blocked in this exemption, for every man I am
compelled to employ at the other shaft (meaning 1206) I
will sack two men at the Freehold, and will take good
care not to employ a Miners’ Union man.
“ I would have you remember, brethren,”
continued the preacher, “the same master-hand
that contrived the celestial system fashioned the
least of earthly atoms as well; the superb architect
of the mountains arranged the minute threads of
gold within them ; and, remember, friends, the
Cod who made me made a daisy.”—Ex.
Bobby Crash (six years old) “Papa, do
people bite when they love each other ? ” Papa
Crash: “No, my child. But why do you ask?”
Bobby : “Why, when Mr. Whitechoker was here
the other day, he said ‘ the Bible says we must
love one another. ’ Then ma laughed and sat on
his knee, and he bit her in the mouth, and she bit
him in the mouth more’n forty times.” —Ex.
Matthews, late conductor of the Maloga
(N.S.W.) aboriginal station, is exhibiting two
talking nigs., Paddy and Jenny Swift, on the
platform of Exeter Hall, London. Paddy says :
“ The English have not only taken our country,
but are shooting down our lives.” The Bulletin
has always thought on reading Daniel Matthews’
annual mission-reports, that he would be much
better employed running a circus than trying to
save the souls of grub-eaters.
The Rabbit question is solved at last !
Read this
An extraordinary rabbit has been found at Hay (N S.W.)
The head, legs and shoulders were coated with ordinary
hair, but the back and belly were covered by a long, dark
greyish wool, with a staple about 2in. long.
The rabbit and the sheep, so long at war, have
resolved to amalgamate. The spirit of federation
is in the air. Cood old Sir Henry Parkes, who
hath spoken the word of incorporation !
Ten years ago Great Britain bought 81 per
cent of her teas from China. Last year she took
but 46 per cent of her requirements from tha^
country—a reduction of nearly one-half in a decade.
What China lost India gained. In 1878 England
only obtained 17 per cent of her teas from her
Indian empire, but year by year since that time
there has been a rapid increase. In 1888 it
amounted to more than one-half of the whole, or,
to be precise, 52 per cent.
Is the Sydney Mail a squatters’ paper ?
In the issue of 19th Oct. there is an alarming pro-
position—alarming to squatters, but nuts for the
proletariat. As a oounter-rabbitant it coolly pro-
poses to have squattages planted with a family for
every 1000 acres. Are you listening, Hill Halli-
day ? You’d have to put on 250 families on
Brookong, Let each family average four, which
is only Sonny and Sissy per couple. Then we
have 1000 souls on that very desirable property.
The expense would not be much —only about £4OO
per week—-say, £20,000 a year. Is this in addition
to the station-hands and shearing-animals ? Your
scheme would soon do away with the unemployed.
W. W. Story says : I had just arrived in
America and was taking my breakfast in the
breakfast-room of the hotel, when a pretty woman
came in, with a little child, and seated herself
near me. The child had no appetite and refused,
in a whining voice, everything that was offered to
it. The mother, apparently, was disturbed by
tli is, and at last relapsed into silence for a few
minutes. Then suddenly she turned to the child
and said ; “Well, don’t you feel like beefsteak?”
Feel like beefsteak ? That was good. It is better
than the singular epithet I once heard an American
lady apply to a fish at a table d’htitc . When it was
placed on the table, she turned to her husband
and exclaimed : “ What an elegant fish !” The
Americans use the word “love” for “ like.” They
“love” beef and potatoes, and they “like” their
friends.
A. J. Vegan, writing in a Port Pirie (S. A.)
paper, says ;
From the flat shores of the Gulf of Carpentaria, east-
wards to tropical Cairns, and southwards almost to our
own doors, is an immense slave country, where un-
fortunate “ niggers”—and I speak from personal observa-
tion—are driven, often with actual use of whip and chain,
to do work that should be done by paid and free white
labour. As my readers know full well, these runs are
often held at ridiculously low rents, and vast fortunes are
accumulated on them, and these by the aid of slave
labour. Whilst the working classes in Queensland are
supporting and assisting European unemployed, who can-
not find enough to do to keep their heads above water,
unpaid labour closes the door to them, and enriches a few
of our antipodean landlords. I will give a couple of
instances of the use of this slave labour on stations, out of
dozens that I have seen in operation within the last few
months. On one station seventeen black “boys” were
employed on work that should have given employment to
six white men at least. These “boys,” were paid, 1 was
informed by the squatter, at the rate of ss. per week. I
found, however, that they never actually saw the money,
Tobacco, soap, &c., was supposed to be given them instead
of coin, but the poor wretches seldom saw the same. The
Government blankets supplied regularly to the squatter
to be given to the blacks of the district, were given to the
station-hands, and were cut up into saddle-cloths, &c. A
well-worn, leathern cat-o’-nine-tails hangs in the boss’
office on this run, as in most up-country stations, and
refractory boys are often triangled on the verandah-posts
of Government House. One “boy’” who attempted to
leave a station I was lately on, in order to return to his
tribe, died recently from the effects of a flogging given
him with a “ cat ” made of fencing wire.
WHOSE FAN?
The ball was at its height of light and glory,
And beauty, joy and music filled the place ;
Behind the palms in the conservatory
Brown saw a couple stand in close embrace,
And heard a kiss. He knew ’twas gay Ned Story,
But had no chance to see the woman’s face.
When they had gone he passed the threshold o’er,
And found a dainty fan upon the floor.
Whose was the fan ? He vowed that he would
know it;
He sought the ballroom, and, in passing
through,
He waved its silken wing that he might show it,
Asking each fair, “Does this belong to you? ”
He’d told his friends the joke—could not forego
it,
And they watched, too, to see him get his clue.
Sudden —Brown’s pretty wife called from her
chair ;
“ Why, Dick, that’s mine; I’ve sought it every-
where. ”
For three months past the police of Bruns-
wick (Melb.) have been sorely distressed by the
irresponsible behaviour of a triangular animal,
alleged to be a horse, which foraged around the
green pastures of the Sydney Road. This four-
legged creature, for reasons best known to itself,
made a practice of devastating the hearths and
homes of the local foorce. In the still small
hours of the night it broke into the premises of
Constable Wilcox and consumed two tons of
Limerick apples which stood in that active and
intilligent individual’s shed. On another occasion
it outraged the sanctity of Constable Jackson's
back garden by indulging in a decrepit canter
among the young fruit trees and small cabbages.
Whenever the beast felt more fatigued than usual
it made a practice of flopping down upon a full
sergeant’s early peas, and its contempt for plain
clothes officers was expressed by pawing up their
spring onions in joyous wantonness. The foorce
used to hold meetings and pass votes of want of
confidence in the outrageous quadruped. About 15
times a week they would arrest it on a charge of
insulting behaviour, and implore the inspector of
nuisances to sell the thing to the highest bidder, but
the inspector always pointed out how such a trans-
action must result in a loss to the municipal
vendor. Whereupon they were compelled to let
the horse go, and it would celebrate each release
from custody by tottering into the police-station
and snorting at the superintendent. Last week,
however, the suffering constabulary found an
owner for their ancient enemy. The fiend was
roaming round Brunswick in the old, aimless
fashion when a young man, out of sheer compas-
sion for its helplessness, yoked it to his dray, as a
visible means of support. Then the rightful owner
of the horse, who had been keeping dark until
now, came tearing up to the young man with a
summons for illegally using his emaciated steed.
The rightful owner, having duly proved pur-
chase of this monstrosity from the town pound
(for 55.) the young man was fined something and
costs. After which the local foorce raised a sub-
scription to reimburse the young man, inasmuch
as he had been instrumental in finding someone
who can be called upon to answer for that horse’s
sins from this time forward.
With reference to the practical working of
the “First Offenders’ Probation Act” a New
Zealand tradesman recently related his personal
experience of the principle. During the 38 years
he had been in business, five of his junior clerks
embezzled vari .us sums ranging from £l7 to £BO.
Believing that prosecution meant the total ruin of
each of them, he kept them in his employment,
although none of their relatives could afford to
pay the money lost. One of them died in his ser-
vice, and the others all turned out well. One is a
clergyman, another a banker, another a settler,
and the fifth is mate of a steamer. Tlie money
embezzled was never repaid, but he considers
it one of the best investments he ever made.
Apropos of the foregoing, a certain prosperous
Sydney tradesman recently told the writer that
he never took any account of testimonials of
character, good or bad, but judged applicants
for employment in his service solely by his de-
ductions from their appearance and manner.
“ One of my extensive businesses is managed by
that young fellow —you see him there. He had
served three years for garotting—a most unpro-
mising start in life, you will say—and came to ask
me for a billet. I liked his face and gave him
work. He is now one of the fingers of my right
hand, and is as honest as the day. I have
other convicted men in my service, and they never
rob me. There are some men who, when hope-
lessly out of work, will commit any crime in the
Newgate Calendar rather than starve ; there are
others who will commit any crime rather than do
any work. I always pick the manly man as my
servant. When I say the manly man I mean the
strong man—the man who is tough and deter-
mined-looking, and who looks as if he had a good
brain. Take my advice and never think a man’s
case hopeless because he has been in gaol. Never
allow your own personal general judgment of a
man to be kinked by your knowledge of an episode,
perhaps an accident in his career. That has been
my rule, and I have so far never made a serious
mistake. ”


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES.
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Hilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently ; in tact,
real Rood-looking, handsome little watches, and maafnlu-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
F. W. .lO\SOM, Pitmans UorllllniU'rt Teiulier.
Shorthand taught in 20 Half-hour Private Lessons—Fee,
425. Reporting Style or Finishing Lessons successfully
given by post—Course of 13 lessons, 215., or 2s. per lesson.
Fees in Advance.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market. ”
PAOkKD ONLY BY
James Inglls Jtr Co.,
4 & (1 1 )kan’s Place, SYDNEY.
Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of forty years’ standino has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
Personal Items.
Macdonald, the Times manager, is very ill.
go is the Times.
Mr. Justice Manning is the only mous-
tachioed Judge of the N.S.W. Supreme Court.
The London criticisms of J. F. Hogan’s
“Australian in London” are not particularly
glowing.
Amy Levy, the talented young actress who
wrote “Reuben Sachs,” has suicided in London
by means of charcoal.
Dr. McKinlay, a 50 years’ resident of
Dungog, N.S.W., is dead. He was a brother of
McKinlay, the explorer.
After 15 years of unfruitful matrimony
a son has at last been born to Lord Harris of
Anglo-Australian cricketing fame.
Saqui, the well-known bookmaker, died
poor. He left no will, but letters of administra-
tion were obtained for less than £l4OO.
Mr. Purves, Q.C., got a retaining fee of
200 guineas and 40 guineas a day for defending
M'Carron and his daughter at Sandhurst (Vie.)
Assizes.
It was rather rough on Hangman Howard
to have the Wagga cabman refuse his fare, seeing
that before Howard became a Civil servant he was
a cabby.
The Chief Justice of Victoria has £3500
a year, and the puisne judges £3OOO each. In
N.S.W. the Chief gets £3500, but the puisnes only
£2600 each.
An Australian aboriginal albino lias been
discovered 200 miles south of La Grange Bay.
He has white skin, whiskers, beard and hair, has
grey eyes, and stands sft. 6in.
If it is true that one-third of the members
of the Victorian Assembly are total abstainers,
the remaining two-thirds must consume a terrible
quantity of poison among them.
Lord Charles Beresford, having telegraphed
his inability to obey a command to dine at Marl-
borough House, added to the “ wire ” the laconic
postscript: “ Lie follows by post.”
The Prince of Wales is suffering from a
sluggish liver, four varieties of kidney-complaint, a
touch of eczema, varicose veins, and slight in-
ternal inflammation. And still he is not happy.
Mr. Wilfred Blacket, barrister-at-law and
once sub-editor of The Bulletin, is now, we are
pained to see, successfully defending a choice
assortment of evil-doers in the N.S.W. criminal
courts.
J. C. Wharton’s attack on the Adelaide
“ pote” Caldwell, in the Centennial, lias stimu-
lated Caldwell to publish his works in hook-form.
This is a calamity which Wharton can surely never
have anticipated.
When the news of Napoleon’s death
reached London, some official announced it to
King George IV. in these words : “ I t is my duty
to inform your majesty that your greatest enemy
is dead.” “Is she, by !” said the king.
It is cabled that Francis Summer Rose,
an Australian colonist in England, has commited
suicide—scattered his leaves on his bed, in fact
leaving a letter stating that he had.ruined himself
by gambling on the turf. Who was Mr. Francis
Summer Rose?
Such is fame ! The Spectator (London),
in an editorial, speaks of Premier Parkes as “Sir
Joseph” Parkes. This is, indeed, the apex of
irony. Which Joseph were they thinking of —
Mrs. Potiphar’s friend Joseph, Joseph Surface, or
Joseph Andrews ?
In accepting the solicitors’ congratulations
on his elevation to the N.S.W. Bankruptcy
Court Bench, Judge Manning, as a proof of his
capability, averred that he “ had inflicted the
second largest sentence on record in the colony.”
This, in N.S.W., would appear to be a particularly
valuable recommendation.
An old Victorian identity, J. G. Dough-
arty, has just died. He was the sportsman who
acted as judge when that memorable decision was
given in the run-off between Tarragon and Volun-
teer over the Champion Stakes of 1866. Mr.
Dougharty never judged afterwards.
Sir Morell Mackenzie, the throat-doctor,
is a nephew of Henry Compton, who was in his
day one of the best English actors of the old
comedy school. Which reminds us that unless
Mackenzie soon gets a chance to operate on the
larynx of another crowned head he will become
less distinguished than his monkey.
In Falconer’s play of “Extremes” there
is a character, Everard Digby, barrister-at-law.
Last week a Mr. Everard Digby, barrister-at-law,
and qualified as a solicitor, applied to the N.S.W.
Supreme Court to be “ struck off ” or “ dis-
barred,” so that he might be admitted as an
attorney. The application was refused.
James Runciman convicts Rider Haggard
of having prigged from an article written by him
(Runciman) a certain “magnificent,” “superb,”
“appalling” description of an ocean disaster
which appears over Runciman’s nom-dc-pl'ume in
“Mr. Meeson’s Will,” and was originally printed
in the Pall Mall Gazette. Like Dumas, Hag-
gard is a magnificent borrower.
Wilkie Collins, we read, worked with the
assistance of the strongest black coffee that human
ingenuity could devise, and protracted his labours
till about 4a. in. The consequence was that he
had seen more ghosts than any living man. One
ghost used to wait for him on the stairs every
night, and exchange greetings with him when he
went to bed. No wonder that the novelist took
to opium.
Charles Dickens, junr., threatens an article
defending his father against the Watts-Phillipsites
who say that Dickens took his “Tale of Tw 0
Cities” from “The Dead Heart," oblivious of the
fact that Dickens himself, in his preface, acknow-
ledges his indebtedness to Wilkie Collins’ “ The
Frozen Deep.” On the other hand, it is said that
all borrowed from Dumas, who also was not above
pilfering.
A lady relates that on one occasion she
had the privilege of an interview with the re-
nowned Brigham Young, and, upon being pre-
sented to him, she said: “ I was always very
desirous to see yon, Governor Young, and to make
the personal acquaintance of one who has had
such extraordinary influence over my own sex.”
To which the governor shortly replied : “ You
was, was you ?”
Dan Mayne, the Bathurst (N.S. W.) editor,
has established what he calls his “ Libel Fund.”
For every contribution he prints—and he prints
all begets -he charges sixpence. These pieces of
silver are packed into a great box every month
and buried in a secret spot known only to Daniel
himself. If the Sentinel has a quiet career for a
few years, Dan, who already wears a financial
aspect, will be a greater capitalist than a tram-
conductor.
Sir Charles Russell received £BOO for de-
fending Mrs. Maybrick ; to this amount her para-
mour Brierley subscribed £lOO. Maybrick was in-
sured for £3OOO in favour of Ins children; this
policy has been paid, but the one payable to Mrs.
Maybrick, value £2OOO, was cancelled, because a
person cannot benefit by an insurance on the life
of an individual whom they have been convicted
of killing. The company, however, advanced Mrs.
Maybrick £2OO for her defence.
A Melbourne writer points out that it is a
historical falsehood to append to the portrait of
Colonel Johnson, in Melbourne Art Gallery, the
tradition that he was Acting-Lieutenant-Governor
in 1808-9 in face of the fact that he merely usurped
the title by an act of mutiny when, at the head of
the leading rum-sellers, he deposed Bligh—an act
for which he was ordered to England under arrest,
tried by court-martial, dismissed the army in dis-
grace, and narrowly escaped hanging.
John Burns, in the New Review, says
that it is now six years since he and others oom-
SWEARING OFF.
Scene, Sydney café. Man in drink, evidently just back from races, dozes off in chair.
WAITER ( shaking him up): “IT’S SEVEN O’CLOCK. WHAT WILL YOU TAKE
FOR DINNER, SIR? ”
MAN IN DRINK: “O, I’LL TAKE A-HIC-SHIGAR, THIS TIME, OLE F’LER,
THANKSH.”
menced their crusade amongst the dockers. Burns,
with his wife, frequently left home at three and
four o’clock, a.m., winter and summer, tramped
to the docks, made at three different
gates, and returned to begin his day’s work in the
West-end at seven or eight o’clock. Working 13
hours a day for his own bread and cheese, he
formed, or helped to form, several trade-unions in
various parts of London.
Dr. Brown-Sequard expresses himself as
astonished and disgusted with the manner in
which his theory regarding the elixir of youth has
been received. He claims that he should not be
held responsible for the misapplication of his
reasoning made by sensationalists. The bungling
of charlatans he ‘especially regrets. “ Epicurus
was not an Epicurean, Plato was not a Platonist,
Aristotle was not an Aristotelian, Dr. Pusey was
not a Puseyite,” says Brown-Sequard, who hopes
he is not a Brown-Sequardist.
The Tasmanian - born John Dennistoun
Wood, lawyer and politician, has returned to
Melbourne Equity Court after 25 years’ absence
from Australia. Mr. Wood, who has of late years
successfully practised before the British Privy
Council, is a brainy little man with a biting
tongue and a nasty temper. He held office in
three Victorian Ministries, once prosecuted David
Syme for criminal libel, had a refreshment-room
set-to with L. L. Smith, and once started to cow-
hide Mint Sauce Jones. He returns to find the
brains of the Bar much altered for the worse.
Major Jackson, who was lost overboard
from a steamer on the N.Z. coast recently, was,
during the Maori war, a popular leader of that
sturdy corps of bushwhackers, the Forest Rangers,
which played so important a part in suppressing
the insurrection. The Maoris had a supreme con-
tempt for the regulars, hut the hardy colonial
frontiersmen, skilled in woodcraft and led by fear-
less officers of the calibre of Jackson, O’Donnell,
and Yon Tempsky, were foemen worthy of their
steel. Jackson played a prominent part in the
final siege of Orakau, and for the last 20 years of
his life tilled a farm within sight of that famous
fortress.
It is rumoured that District Court Judge
Backhouse is a possible chairman of the N.S.W.
Land Board. No more honest or capable man could
be selected, but The Bulletin hopes yet to see
native-born and trained gentlemen of the Back-
house stamp on the Bench, not only of the Land
Board, but of the Supreme Court. No man who
isn’t good enough to ascend the Supreme Court
Bench before he is 40 should ever go there at all.
It’s a ghastly thing to have to pretend to respect
the maimderings of His Honor the wheezy dotard
who climbed on to the Bench because he had
no practice at the Bar and who puts in his time
sparring for wind — i.e., waiting for a fat pension.
A Sydney publisher has in the press the
collected poems of Premier Parkes which, as ill
weeds grow apace, now threatens to bulge into an
octavo of 240 pages. The book will contain several
recently-perpetrated metrical offences, and will
give Australia an opportunity of re-perusing the
old gentleman’s historical
Listen how it rains and pours !
What a night for out-of-doors 1
The real poetry which Sir Henry Parkes has
written could be compressed into say ten octavo
p a o- e s set in leaded long primer. All else is
rubbish—most of it idiotic rubbish—which would go
kerslap into the waste-paper basket of any jmi-
jamless editor.
Would you own a skin with a healthful sheen,
Then tipple Mar-hall’s Tonic Nervine.
According to an American paper, Henry
George’s lecture terms are one hundred dollars per
night.
The young plunger who piled his “ sugar
on Moorbank for the Caulfield Cup, shows pro-
nounced tendencies to walk in the ways of our old
friend Benzou.
Gro iter secresy, Premier Parkes says,
must be observed about Australian defence-works.
Dr. Creed’s labour has not been in vain.
The well-known firm of J. S. Fry and
Sons wrested the gold medal for their cocoas and
chocolates at the Paris Exhibition from all the
leading houses. This is their 41st prize medal.
The Bulletin’s “ History of Botany
Bay,” already recognised everywhere as an
authority, can still be purchased for Is., by post
Is. 3d. It is profusely illustrated by L. Hopkins
and Phil May.
They say that Lord Kiutore made £13,000
in Stock Exchange speculations during Melbourne
Cup week. Or, rather, a shrewd adviser made
the money, while Kintore kept letting off a
“ Haw !” expressive of gratification.
Sunday-Newsman Bailey writes to tell us
that, having only been in the field a month for
Ballarat Fast, he considers 306 votes a great com-
pliment; also, that his gratuitous return on some
future occasion has been guaranteed.
The intersection of Bourke and Swanston
streets, Melbourne, is known as “Poverty
Junction.” At one coi’ner stand unemployed
actors, at another, unemployed musicians, at a
third, unemployed artizans, and at the fourth, un-
employed labourers.
Mr. “ Bob ” Pennefather, the barrister, of
Echuca (Vic.), belongs to a well-known Irish
legal family, which has given a baron to the Court
of Exchequer, a justice to the Queen’s Bench, and
a Q.O. to the Bar. One of the judges was blind for
many years before his death, but still retained his
seat upon the bench, and had his “ notes ” taken
by his associate.
POLITICAL POINTS
Sir Henry Parkes does not claim to be the
father of the ballot in Australia.
Teetotal Munro, sham leader of the bogus
“ Opposition ” in Victoria, is about to take a six
months’ trip to Europe.
Sir Henry Loch has been less troubled
with Ministerial changes than any other Governor
who ever ruled in Australia.
John Morley says that 45 per cent., or
nearly one-half, of those who reach the age of 60
in England are or have been paupers !
Nearly 35 years ago the late Edward Deas-
Thomson obtained a Committee of the N.S.W.
Legislative Council, whose report recommended a
meeting of delegates from the Legislatures of the
Australias to devise an assemblage for all the
colonies.
Reynolds trusts that the London dockers’
committee, before paying out more sums to any
unions or cause whatever , however deserving, will
take counsel with the Australians who supplied
them with the sinews of war, and enabled them to
win in the hardest fight labour has ever adven-
tured upon.
Says Reynolds :—
Boulanger is down, dead, if not yet buried. Ills fol-
lowers declare we shall hear and see more of him. Maybe
that when his friends fail him he will be seen as a waiter
in some Leicester-square restaurant. At present he must
content himself with having been branded by the highest
tribunal of his country as a liar, a thief, and a traitor 1
It will be remembered that B. R. Wise,
at Paddington, instantly demurred to Treasurer
M‘Millan’s contention that Australian Federation
must be on a strictly Freetrade basis. It is an
ominous fact that neither Bruce Smith nor
M'Millan attended the subsequent big Federation
meeting, at which Parkes spoke, whereas Mr.
Wise was present.
Parkes and the extreme Freetraders are
now utterly at variance on the question whether
United Australia should be allowed to decide the
N.S.W. fiscal question in a federated Parliament.
On the other hand, the N.S.W. Protectionist
party is also hopelessly riven on the same question.
The political situation is the most interesting one
in Australian history.
Thus organiser Tillett, in speaking of the
Dock strike :—
One of the most reassuring signs of the struggle was
that men sank creed and politics and had become so
linked together that it was impossible to work indepen-
dently of one another. Let them prove worthy of their
Australian brotherhood.
That is the point. Not the federation of anta-
gonistic states, but the federation of labour. Their
cause is the same all the world over.
Governor Locb says “ he trusts soon to see
Australia a united dominion, and in the near
future to see it a united dominion with the mother
country, possessing that legitimate influence
which it would have the right to possess accord-
ing to its population, wealth, and power.” In
other words, he hopes to see Australia Imperially
Federated with Great Britain and represented in
the Lords and Commons by dummy delegates
whose votes would be swamped.
Premier Parkes says that the difference
between him and the N.S.W. Protectionist leaders
is that he was deluded by Protectionist ideas when
he was comparatively young, while they are deluded
in their old age. Parkes is now 74, and O’Sullivan,
M.P., points out that in 1860—when he was 45 —
he moved Protectionist resolutions in the N.S.W.
Assembly, and in 1886 stated, when in Opposition,
that “ he thought the new Government must sub-
mit a policy of moderate Protection !”
Dock-boss Norwood, at a general meeting
of the London and St. Katharine Dock Co., on
3rd October, said that “the dock committee be-
lieved that common-sense would resume its sway
in public opinion, and that the economic absurdity
of compelling the docks to pay a minimum wage of
(id. per hour for a practically inexhaustible supply
of labour obtainable at 5d. had become generally
recognised.” Economic absurdity ! Conventional
political economy reckons flesh and blood as mere
counters in the game of making money.
Gov. Loch, in his fai'ewell speech, said
that the Victorian population had increased by
200,000 since first lie landed, and the revenue by
£2,700,000 a year, while in the same period the
rateable value of property had increased to the
enormous extent of £71,700,000, and the rates
derivable therefrom to £4,000,000.” The same re-
sults would have been achieved had Her Gracious
Majesty been represented at the cow-shed near
the Yarra by Jo Jo, the dog-faced man, or the
long boy from Warrnambool.
Parkes has just published (with Gillies’
permission) a letter addressed to him by Premier
Gillies on 12th August. 1889, and marked “pri-
vate. ” Here is a slab of it: —
Surely it would be a worthy ambition for you to adopt
the best means at your disposal, in fact at your hand [the
Federal Council], to unite Australia in a federation which
would not only promote her material interests and
strengthen her against aggression, but also powerf ully aid
in uniting and cementing together all parts of the great
empire of which she forms a part.
Imperial Federation !
The N.S.W. Freetraders, who at first
could only see in Parkes’s Federation proposal a
clever scheme to dish the Protectionists, boil over
with wrath now that they clearly perceive that
the artful old man is sawing the larynx out of tin*
fetish which they worship but which he only
“uses.” One prominent member of the Foreign-
trade party, who had a great deal to say at the
late Freetrade Conference, vows that the Free-
traders will never let Parkes carry out his scheme
of throwing them over and betraying, for the pur-
poses of his personal ambition, a cause for which
they have been fighting a whole lifetime. The
matter is to be considered this week in solemn
powwow.


g
WfiCO^E!
j\s PART 4N p PARCR
anRIOUS EWPIREI:
“FEDERATION IS IN THE AIR.”
BUT WHERE WILL IT LAND US IN THE LION'S MOUTH, OR THE HAPPY LAND OF CANAAN?


“FEDERATION" IN THE AIR—OR, G.O.M. PARKES ON HIS HIGH-HORSE AGAIN.


•-=»*
60
INC
Celebrated
KM
-K
' WmotymsM
ro^pofrlt
iW-IMD'-S
%iii » -^r
Qqe*vt».F. «. C?-B^&Man-
Sof jMcmvw forffax
CWvco ,sotc« ailS
Smvs ouxc^
g
£c*v UcylU jaxifA
SVtlaf iHJ tl I*
B* WHEELER
DO
?05 Clamico Street, SIDNEY.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
H AVE
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
f
Opfvfd a Magnificent, Lot of KTow Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uobel, Fenrich, Linp, Ronisch, Bluthner, Collard, and other
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos a,-t £45 and Batey No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cask or Tfhms.
Society
Apropos of the fact that Lord and Lady
Carington’s recently-born daughter has been chris-
tened “ Myee ” (which we take to be the feminine
of “ Myall ”) we hear on the very worst authority
that had the new-comer been a boy, he would,
out of deference to Australian national sentiment,
have been christened Federation Warrabunyah
Bargowlahmine Narrabeen Croweater Gumsucker
Bananaman Australia Cornstalk Sydney Smith.
* # #
As the world now knows, Hon. Rupert
Carington won a pile during Cup week - that is to
say, he became engaged to the fair daughter of
Mr. Horsfall, who recently seceded from the firm
of Coldsbrougli. Papa-in-law intended is looking
out for a likely station whereon the turtle doves
may fix up their nest and live happily ever after-
wards. The Bulletin, having long felt a fatherly
interest in Rupert (by the way, the future Baronet
Clarke is named Rupert, doosid good sort of a
name rather, dontyerthink ?) offers its best con-
gratulations, and all that :
An irreverent Melbourne wag speaks of
"Rupert Carington’s “intended " as Hu's gin.
* * #
That “Hebrew financier,” mentioned as
being mixed up with 97 other flowers of English
society, in a horrible scandal at a London club, is
suspected to be one of the extensive Rothschild
tr.be. Or a certain man who discounts bills for
gilded jugginses, and occasionally gets them to
put their noble legs under his mahogany, and, in
the fullness of his gratitude for the honor paid
h in, says, “the* paper of every gentleman present
is cancelled. ’ He takes care to arrange that
none of the gentlemen present are owing him very
much on “paper,” at those supreme moments.
# # «
The circumstances under which Willoughby
Andrew —whose full name is alleged to be Wil-
-1 mghby Andrews Danesbury—who shot down
the unfortunate and inoffensive Mr. Bartlett
in King-street, Sydney, the other day, con-
tested Molong constituency six years ago, were
in keeping with his remarkable career. Dr.
Ross, who had good hopes of “ walking-over,”
was addressing a meeting of death-like still-
ness in Molong School of Arts. Willoughby
Andrew was in town at the time canvassing.
Andrew, to kill time, attended the meeting. It
was not long before an enthusiastic Rossite deter-
mined to attempt a sudden ejection of the loqua-
cious Andrew. He only succeeded, however, in
becoming bruised and inducing the fiery drummer
to declare his intentions of contesting the election.
This was on the eve of the nomination, but he
worked so hard during the next three days that
he made himself known to every elector through-
out the constituency, and was only beaten by 200
votes. •
# # *
Willoughby Andrew aforesaid was once
life-canvassing at Orange, N.S.W. A new doctor
was sent up by the company he represented to
examine his “ lives,” and Andrews, whose body
was sober while his mind was drunk, took the
doctor for a drive at such a reckless pace that he
collided with a big tree and made a general
smash. Rising to his feet he jumped upon the
prostrate body of the unfortunate doctor, whom
he punched and kicked until the medico was almost
bereft of life. And the cream of the joke was that
the astonished sawbones had had no hand what-
ever in bringing about the trouble.
# * #
Premier Parkes, according to Mr. Lyne,
M.P., wishes to have for himself the entire credit
of propounding a scheme of Australian Federation.
He actually distributed a few books in Sydney
bearing the date when his Queensland speech was
made, inscribed, “ With Sir Henry Parkes’ com-
pliments, to mark the date of the birth of the
Australian Dominion.” This reminds us of the
fact that Mayor Young of Sydney —with his eye
on a baronetcy or something—celebrated the
Queen’s jubilee in “tuppeny-ha’peny ” style a year
before the Jubilee arrived —apparently in order to
take the starch out of his civic successor.
# * *
Lord Kintore—who is, by the way, a most
unlovable - looking Scotchman with particularly
aggressive cheek-bones—made a speech at the
Mayor of Melbourne’s banquet which must not be
allowed to remain in the obscurity of daily news-
paper reports. Recognising, in a dull, humourless
way, that he was sent out to Australia because he
appears to alleged advantage in a kilt, Kintore
stated : “ After all, Governors are but fleeting
shadows and evanescent apparitions ( ‘ ghosts ’
prepare their orations) that haunt your history,
but add scarce a line to its pages. . . . Half-a-
column of biographical dictionary would suffice to
exhibit the sums of our united achievements, so
imperceptibly do we come and go, play our smail
part, and fade from off the scene. ” Having thus
frankly admitted that Governors are personally
unworthy of their salt, this dreary young incubus
dropped into bunkum, and was weak enough to
wind up with a question. “ But unsubstantial,
phantasmal, and impersonal as we may be individu-
ally, we nevertheless represent and symbolise in our
uninterrupted succession some of the most solid
realities of which the modern world can boast —
for are we not the living proofs and exponents of
the love of a mighty nation for the children she
has sent forth to enlarge her dominion and en-
hance her renown” (she sent the first batch of
offspring forth in irons), “the affection of great
colonies for a mother that has endowed them with
A MODEL MAN.
WIFE (to another): “T ASSURE YOU, MRS. BROWN, MY HUSBAND IS THE
VERY MODEL OF A MAN. THERE ISN’T A VICE WHICH HE HASN’T
ALREADY LEFT OFF.”
freedom and legislative independence, the rever-
ence of a free people for constitutional liberty as
secured by monarchial government,” &c., &c.
Why follow Kintore to the bitter end of his after-
dinner slobber ? The questions, which his bloated,
title-admiring auditors received with affirmative
cheers shall be answered by The Bulletin as
every honest-minded citizen would answer them.
And to the idiotic enquiries of this diinderheaded
Heelander we reply :
A very smart young man has come to
light in Sydney. Detected in embezzling £4OO he
owned his guilt, and when pressed, tearfully
admitted that he hail stolen much more—that he
had actually taken £1200! He pleaded guilty,
succeeded in having himself dealt with summarily,
and got a few months’ gaol—and now they find,
when it is too late to come down on him, that he
has “had ” them for more than six thousand
golden sovereigns. Partial confession is good for
the soul,
* * *
“ Ah ” ! said one of Sydney’s boss usurers
the other day, “I came oud of dat little drans-
action splendid. I helt dat absconding solicitor’s
cheque for eleven tousand. He hat to scratch
up for me £SOO efery veek und ven he scoot he
vas in mine debt only vifty pount, so I don’t lose
mooch afder all. ” Not mooch !
* * *
Why doesn’t some shareholder of that
bank get a special meeting called, and root out all
details of the noble director’s rocky £IO,OOO over-
draft ? They’re not game to write it oft and
they're not game to make him insolvent.
* * #
Tasmania expects a largely-increased in-
flux of visitors this summer, thanks to the action
of Messrs. Hnddart, Parker, and Cos., in disputing
the monopoly hitherto enjoyed by the T.S.N.
people. Great is the wrath of these gentry at the
prospect of their fat dividends being cut down,
and loud are their threatenings that they will run
the new-comers off the line. The latter, however,
strong in the promises of support accorded them
by all classes of the long-suffering Tasmanian
public, calmly announce that they “ have come to
stay,” and that if there is to be war, they are quite
prepared to fight.-
* * *
Dean Dundas, of Hobart, has recently
deserved the cordial thanks of the common people
by calling public attention to the disgraceful con-
dition of affairs at two alleged charitable institu-
tions for the aged and sick poor. Here the
“cutting down” principle has resulted in the
poor old people being left in a shocking state,
through neglect and want of proper nursing.
Ladies have in many cases been obliged to dis-
continue their visits through the plentifulness of
vermin in the wards.
* # #
From London Echo, of 30th September :
A man of considerable notoriety a quarter of a cen-
tury ago has just died in Broadmoor Asylum, in the
person of John Darby Shelly, who had been an inmate
since 1801. Shelly was confined in Westminster Bridewell
for a couple of periods of two years for threatening vio-
lence to Government authorities. At one time he was
nominated for the Governorship of South Australia, hut
fell out with the officials. He had delusions as to his
grandeur. He was 89 years of age, and had been bed-
ridden of late.
The same old complaint from which so many Aus-
tralian Governors have suffered ! Most of them
have delusions as to their grandeur, but they get
over it in time. The majority of those who have
escaped the Bridewells and asylums and reached
Australia in safety have distinguished themselves
by the diligence with which they bled the Trea-
sury, the ability with which they could talk
nothing but drivel when left to their own devices,
and the monotonous regularity with which they
have got their speeches written by some other
fellow. Few of them have ever risen above the
f'randeur of £ s. and,, save when their assistance has
>een required to hang somebody.
# # *
“John McDougal,” says his Honor, “you
have been found guilty of an abominable crime ”
(assaNilt to rob). “ Yes, your Honor,” says the
miserable wretch, fumbling nervously with the
dock-rails, “but it’s the first time I was ever
before a court in all my life. I had a good
character in Glasgow, as your Honor will see
from the papers I have handed in.” “ Yes,
prisoner, I nave read the papers, and have taken
your previous good character into full considera-
tion in framing the sentence I am about to pass
upon you. The sentence of the Court is that you
lie kept in penal servitude for seven years.” (Great
laughter among the attorneys, who whistle “ Jee-
rusalexn 1” in chorus.)
* # *
How these Christians love one anotner !
Here is an extract from the article in Sydney
Presbyterian (edited by Rev. J. Copeland) com-
plained of by Cardinal Moran :—
The simple truth is, Father Damien (of leper fame) was
a coarse, dirty man, headstrong- and bigoted. He was not
sent to Molokai, but went there without orders ; did not
stay at the leper settlement (before he bec£fhie one him-
self), but circulated freely over the whole island (less than
half the island is devoted to the lepers) and he came often
to Honolulu. He had no hand in the reforms and im-
provements inaugurated, which were the work of our
Board of Health, as occasion required and means were
provided. He was not a pure man in his relations with
women, and the leprosy of which he died should lie
attributed to his vices and carelessness. Others have
done much for the lepers, our own ministers, the Govern-
ment physicians, &c., but never with the Catholic idea of
meriting eternal life.
The truth is the truth, no matter about whom it
is told, and The Bulletin is never surprised at
anything. But so far all the evidence has been
to the effect that Damien was a pure and noble-
minded man, who was a “ saint ” in the highest
sense of the term.
# * #
Considering what bad blood has heretofore
existed between the sects and how eagerly the
hatreds of bigoted clerical leaders are espoused by
the ignorant of their flocks, it would be well in
this comparatively enlightened age if the priests
and parsons, even if unrestrained by any considera-
tions of delicacy or gentlemanly feeling, studiously
refrained, on diplomatic grounds, from talking ill
of each other publicly—after the fashion of the
doctors, who always uphold their craft. It would
have been in much better taste had Rev. Cope-
land imposed upon the secular press the task of
pricking the alleged martyr-bubble. Why did he
not do so ? Was it because he knew there was
not a single secular paper in Australasia mean
enough to make such a statement without proof,
or follow it up with the cheeky announcement that
it was going to hunt up proof from San Francisco?
* * *
Rev. Copeland aforesaid now writes to
the Press giving as his authority for the state-
ment that Rev. Damien was not only physically
but morally a leper Rev. Hyde, of Honolulu,
who is, as he remarks, “ a man on the spot."
The writer alludes to the eulogium passed on
Damien by the latter’s bishop as “ altogether too
ex parte,” and adds ; “It is possible that Dr. Hyde’s
statement is true. It is not a slander until it is
proved to be such.” Mr. Copeland’s mind is
queerly kinked. His allegations are slanders
until he produces better evidence of their truth
than the “ altogether too ex-parte” statement of
Rev. Dr. Hyde. Priest Damien’s reputation doer
not rest on the ex parte assertions of his bishop
alone, nor is his fame based on merely sacerdotal
grounds like thalof many useless, self- flogging, dirty
saints whose chief merit appears to have been that
they wore horsehair shirts and never washed them-
selves. Nor does he appear to have been a cocoa-
nut-oil saint like so many of the .Scotch reverends
who keep shop in the South Seas. The Bulletin,
by the way, has always had a high respect for
the business abilities of the copra apostles since it
knew a certain parson’s son who showered choice
assortments of diamond jewellery on the -Mel-
bourne ballet, and gave the loveliest of oyster
suppers to ladies whose complexion didn’t match
their dyed hair. “There, boys,” he used to
candidly say as he slapped down five sovereigns
with a crash which must have strained the ear-
drums of the Recording angel—“ there’s some
more of my old man’s nigger-money going the
right road. Jolly place the islands, I tell you.”
And then he used to wink one long comprehen-
sive wink containing about three chapters of
“ South Sea Bubbles.”
# # #
A certain prosperous Sydney merchant
has had a man in his employ for 20 years on a
weekly wage of 35s. He recently cut down that
employe’s wages by five shillings a week.
# * *
Nobody is so blasphemous as the third-
rate parson when the spirit moves him to be a
more decided ass than usual. The boss shepherd
of a genteel sanctuary in a Melbourne suburb
preached his annual preach on the evils of the
racing carnival to this text—“Father, if it be
Thy will let this ‘ Cup’ pass from me.” We won’t
soil a page of The Bulletin by publishing the
parson’s name (because it has slipped our memory),
but he is an actual, living fact, and he did get a
horsey pun out of Christ’s pathetic petition. And
may the Lord forgive him !
# # #
During the ensuing drought, predicted by
Mr. Egeson, the favourite dresses in the bush will
be the robe-de-lubra ; a combination of gunny-bag
and cheese-cloth. Gentlemen are requested to fire
a gun or cooey at the horse-paddock gate.
# # #
The coolest thing on record is that of the
stockrider, who, riding along Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, smoking his pipe, was thrown off. He
remounted again without dropping the pipe from
his jaw. This beats the cigar stakes, where you
had to keep your cigar alight all round in the
gallop to be entitled to win.
# # *
|TA lady recently fell asleep in the Rev.
Guinness’ Church, at Melbourne, and her hat and
most of her hair took advantage of her slumbers
to topple into the lap of a bald-headed, meek, old
fellow who sat behind her, and whose dragon of a
wife evidently thought him highly to blame.
* * #
The notices of the death of Rev. Julian
E. Tenison-Woods have been scrappy, except
a very exhaustive one in the Adelaide
O ! Rupert 0., the Sydney girls
No more will shake their sunny curls,
Or locks of raven black,
When next you meet their maiden glance
At picnic, ball, or social dance—
You’ve lost your tail, alack !
They doted on the ground you trod,
They swore you were a little god
Among the single men ;
Henceforth the dears will set their caps
At other less distinguished chaps—
The dif. ’twixt now and then!
But, Rupert, all is for the best :
You’ll lose poetic interest,
As most of us have done,
But win, upon the other hand,
The “sweetest wife in all the land ”
Yon can have only one.
You’ll still move in the highest groov. s,
Or “circles ” —Baron Bob approves,
Liked by the lady, too ;
And, in conclusion, let us pray
You’ll never make her me the day
She gave her hand to Rn.
EMPHATICALLY NO.
Empatieally no, you are nothing of the sort,
You are symbols of a rotten state of things,
Sent out to give our grovellers an imitation Court,
And inculcate a hankering for kings.
You are trumpery exponents of a system dying
fast,
You’ve got to go, together with the Chow;
You are proofs that darkest ignorance existed in
the past,
And that snobbery exists among us now.
You represent here nothing but “ Her Majesty
the Queen, ”1
(Good Victoria Regina, by the Grace) —
Six years you drivel‘‘loyalty,” then vanish from
the scene
And another flunkey-maker fills the place.
You are treated with contempt by all except a
toady clique,
Who cheer you when you come and when you
go;
To everything you do, sir, and to every word you
speak
Common sense replies —emphatically no !


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
(K) KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits:
3 Years 0.4 per cent.
12 Months 84 per cent.
C Months 74 per cent.
3 Months ... ... 5t per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
g
scorn
EMULSION
CURES
CONSUMPTION
SCROFULA
BRONCHITIS
COUGHS
GOLDS
Wasting [Diseases
Wonderfyß Piiesh Producer.
Many have gained one pound
per day by its use.
Scott’s Emulsion is not a secret
remedy. It contains the stimulat-
ing properties of the Hypophos-
pliites and pure Norwegian Cod
Liver Oil, the potency of both
being largely increased. It is used
by Physicians all over the world.
‘PALATABLE AS gVIBLK.
Sold hit all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWKE, New York.
Ho bektsojvrs Whisky.
£2OO PRIZES
C3IVKX AWAY IN TH.K COLONIES
AS FOLLOWS :—-
10 of <£s each, 133 £‘J, and 70 £l,
Papiplilets from the Agents, ALLT & OCX, CHARLOTTE. PLACE, SYDNEY
Observer. Place Woods’ “ History of Austra-
lian Exploration ” in your son’s hands, if you
want him to be fired with the deeds of Wentworth,
Oxley, .Sturt, Hovell, Hume, Stuart, Mitchell,
M'Kinley, Gregory. Faveno boils it down and
brings to date appropriately. The deeds of the'
Forrests in West Australia have somewhat too
much of the aspect of bush-lawyer deeds; they
say that John Forrest has feathered his nest to
the tune of nigh a million.
To the bucolic denizens of Nathalia (Vic.)
has the Hon. Jimmy Munro explained how the
best designs of Heaven arc being knocked out of
joint by the Licensed Victuallers’ Association.
Quoth James: “ The colony has great advantages,
and the people here should be of a very superior
class to those in any other portion of the world,
but the intentions of Providence would be defeated,
as the drink traffic increased and sapped the very
foundations of what would otherwise be a very
great nation. ” Whereat the enlightened natives
of Nathalia (a township celebrated for its recent
“horror”) commenced to swear off in the most
appalling fashion, and said, “as Providence was
a-being treated awful bad by the, grog-shops, and
three of the leading agriculturalists of the district
said that although they was bound to take their
two quails a day, summer nor winter, same as
they’d always been used to, yet they meant to
take the bloo ribbun ’cos they thought it was a
good thing.” But this is a digression :
Father Gonsalvo
Kavanagh, the R.C. tee-
total lecturer, died on
board the Iberia and was
buried at sea. He was a
teetotaller of the uncom-
promising sort, and had
he had power in his
church would have ab-
solutely refused to handle
any money made through
liquor. He was not the
sort of man who preaches
temperance and yet ac-
cepts gold-dust panned
out of drunkards’ graves
to build churches and en-
dow with social status the
sellers of doctored grog.
Father Kavanagh’s doc-
trine really was that no
man could be a sincere
Christian who sold liquor,
lie was but 34 when he
died.
* * #
The Melbourne news-
papers always give the
junior Bar a lift by men-
tioning the names of
counsel who “ move for
probate.” The Sydney
newspapers do not adver-
tise lawyers on the cheap.
# # #
The “ Yag.,” in an
Aoe racing article, makes
a big line of the “ fact ”
that a Roman Catholic
clergyman friend of his
used to visit Flemington
at race-time disguised in
an ulster and slouch hat,
alleging as his reason
that it was against an
order of his Church. The
Bulletin knows a sport-
ing priest in the N.S.W.
back blocks who owns
some very decent cattle,
and although they do not
race in his name every
cornstalk on the course
knows who owns them.
And his reverence is
always there to see that
they run straight ; the
trainer or jockey who
tried to “ best ” Father
C would never get
absolution. Awell-known
After reading the evidence (to hand by the
mail) in the charge of indecent assault on a little
girl brought against the Earl of Galloway, it can
only be supposed that justice ha? been burked,
and that the very noble Earl has escaped by virtue
of his aristocratic connections.
* * *
N.S. Wales Postmaster O’Connor, while in
Melbourne, said, in reply to a toast, that “jn
ancient times no man was considered to have
accomplished anything like his avocation in life or
perfected himself in the knowledge of the world
unless he had visited Egypt and seen the Pyramids.
In more modern days a man was expected to go to
Athens and partake of the intellectual atmosphere
of that renowned city. Later still there were
journeyings to Rome and Mecca, but nowadays
Australians came to Melbourne and Fitzgibboni”
The connection between the smells of Mecca and
those of Smellbourne, between the Egyptian
mummies and the Imperial Fitzgibbon is obvious,
but Dan’s failure to drag in the Sphinx coupled
with the name of Gillies, is an oversight for which
N.S.W. can never forgive him.
* * *
A “gentleman” who has previously been
bowled out in shady transactions and dirty tricks
at various games was recently detected “waxing”
his dominoes at a certain well-known restaurant.
* # #
A daily paper says that every barrister on
accepting a judgeship makes a great pecuniary
sacrifice. The Bulletin asserts that there are
only three judges on the N.S.W. Supreme Court
Bench who have made professional pecuniary
sacrifices on accepting office, and the handsome
pension on retiring amply compensates for that.
The others were just getting a living and begged
for the appointments.
R.C. clergyman, formerly
in a Northern town—who not long since left for the
ould sod—had a big interest in a splendid string
of steeplechasers which were generally in training.
* * *
The air of Melbourne is infected with
Governor and rumours of Governor these last few
days. At carnival time four of ’em were prowling
loose about the city ; then came the departure of
Loch with its lavish dischai’ge of gunpowder,
bogus manifestations of “public ” regret, and dis-
gusting assemblage of men arrayed in the habili-
ments of warfare. This will be followed almost
immediately by another cannonade, and more
trotting out of our gallant defenders in honour—
as it is described —of a fatuous-faced Excellency
with 30 myrmidons and 300 suits of uniform.
Decent-minded people are afraid to venture into
the Melbourne streets just now for fear of being
trampled down by a Governor’s orderly, or driven
crazy by the cheers of 20 fat men giving somebody
an enthusiastic reception of a ridiculously hollow
character. Recent experiences throw a little
light upon the vice-regal, mayoral, and Go-
vernmental anxiety to increase the strength
of our local armies. Volunteers, permanent
Artillery and Naval Reserve constitute nineteen-
twentieths of the whole grovel! They are the
background, middle distance, and most of the
foreground. They line the streets in order to
attract the attention of idlers, and so cause a
cluster of humanity at street-corners. The bone
and sinew of the country would neither know nor
care twopence if a Governor were coining or going
but for the salvoes of artillery and garish tommy-
rot. The lining of streets with toy soldiers is a
pompous sham, because there would be no crowd
to keep back if the soldiers hadn’t created some
semblance of a crowd by being there. When Loch
drove through Melbourne the other afternoon
there was no sort of demonstration or display,
except what was made by the Government, or
military commandant at the country’s expense.
And the taxpayers stood around and scoffed.
* . * *
Lady Robinson is to have her little
souvenir, but it will only be a pale gh st of the
dear Lady Loch offering. A few buzzum friends
of the feminine gender have gone round with the
Leghorn hat (or Paris bonnet) and collected the
price of an opal-and-diamond set. Lady Clarke
takes the lead in this sassiety movement, which is
characterised by a great deal of “ Lady, ” chiefly
colonial or made expressly for the “kawlinies,”
throughout.
* # *
At the Loch farewell gorge our dearly be-
loved brother, the Baron, said “ I should be the last
person to start a Peers’Mutual Admiration Society.”
The Baron evidently intended this as a sort of
humble apology to The Bulletin for having pre-
viously declared that Kintore, Onslow and Hope-
toun “ belong to that .estate of the realm which is
more in sympathy with Australian feeling than
the House of Commons,” Bulletin comments
.upon the inter-gubernatorial traffic in “jam ” and
“ butter ” have evidently touched up the Baron.
We must be a splendid thing for his liver.
* * *
When our old nobility sit down to write
letters out of their own exalted heads, sorrowful
.results generally ensue. Lady Lytton turned out
this bright specimen of literature on the inspiriting
subject of Lady Loch’s diamonds, and “ Sister
Lizzie ” allowed it to be read in public
We therefore met together yesterday with the de Greys,
and had the choice from the two best Jewellers here, and
finally decided with a M. Bapst, who has all the Orleanist
Crown jewels, and trusted by the Rothschilds and those
who have the best Jewellery.
An intelligent bush Biddy is in front of the salt
T rl(. ■’
BOOKPKtft
HATI-I
ETERNITY
BtfOftE
IT 1 M l!
A LONG HUN.
OLD GENT (pointing to Salvation Army blood-and-thunder poster) :
“WHAT IS THE MEANING OF THAT POSTER, MY
MAN?”
MY MAN: “DON’T KNOW AS WHO OWNS THE ’OSS,
BUT I WOULDN’T PUT ANY STUFF ON TM IF I
WAS YOU, SIR, AS I JUST HEERED A GENT SAY"
AS HOW, IN THE LONG RUN, ETERNITY WAS
BOUND TO BE LAST.”
of the earth when it comes to letter-writing. The
more noble, the more miserably incompetent to
sling ink according to rules of syntax. The late
Duchess of Westminster had a ridiculous letter
read during the hearing of a lady’s-maid case in a
London law-court. The Duke of Portland wrote
about somebody being “worser” than somebody
else. Albert Edward exhorted Lady Mordaunt
to “ lay up ” when she had a cold, just as though
she were a hen. And the Queen makes an entire
mess of those “sweet womanly epistles” which
she produces without assistance.
# * *
Somebody suggests that Lady Carington’s
baby is the first ‘ ‘ honourable miss ” born in Aus-
tralia. If, on enquiry, this turns out to be a fact
we will light a gigantic bonfire and go upon the
burst.
* * *
Under the influences of Melbourne ban-
quets Lord Oarington stated that the spirit of
federation must be in the air, because “ a fine
specimen of an Australian baby has joined his
family circle.” Herewith we call upon the happy
father to explain what the dickens his wife’s baby
can have to do with federation. And perhaps he
will also have the goodness to inform us how
brother Rupert’s engagement to a Melbourne
heiress affects the political situation. It requires
a Governor to perceive these fine points.
■K #
Mr. Panton, the veteran Melbourne beak
who dealt with Bookmaker Sutton re the plugging
of Lord Beerthirst’s nose, has a tall, slim, airy
way of mentioning that he was entirely misrepre-
sented as to his motives in sitting upon the
plebeian defendant, and adds, with calm official
philosophy, that history is a record of misrepre-
sentations. (To which latter assertion exception
must be taken on behalf of The Bulletin “ His
tory of Botany Bay,” an absolutely truthful
volume published at one shilling; post free from
this office for Is. sd. in stamps.) The P.M.’s
explanation of how dear Lord Dudley came to be
accommodated with a seat among the law givers
on that interesting occasion is remarkable for its
rugged simplicity. “ The man Dudley ” came to
the Court as a total stranger and wanted some-
where to rest his noble little limbs, it appears.
“ If you,'" observed Mr. Panton to a Bulletin re-
presentative, “ had asked for a seat on the Bench
under similar circumstances, room would have been
found for you.” Whereupon the comparatively
lowly-born individual thus addressed did fix his
blue eye upon the particular button of Mr. Pan-
ton’s vest which came in his direct line of vision,
and says he to himself, says he, “Walker!” he
says. But Mr. Panton—notwithstanding the old
doubt as to whether he didn’t love a lord not
wisely but too well —has an air of being rather a
nice man within strict magisterial limits. He
carries his 80 odd years of Australian experience
with all the abandon of a two-year-old, and can
tell stirring yarns of the days that are no more.
The glamour appertaining to a lord has dazzled
many a man of smaller stature. Even the writer
is wont to blush and tremble at the recollection of
having once passed the mustard-pot to a Duke.
“ Hah !” murmured his Grace, “ I think you have
the mustard at your—aw - elbow, hah !” And for
the next five minutes we thought we had been
taken up to the Kingdom of Heaven by command
of the Queen.
# * #
A Melbourne surgeon lias been performing
a post mortem, in the privacy of the deceased
“ subject’s ” back-yard, to the gratification of all
the neighbouring, flies, and for the edification of
his fellow-countrymen:—
And the children coming home from school
Looked in at the open back-door;
They saw the corpse on trestles laid,
They sniffed the smell of gore,
And didn’t eat their dinners with
The appetite of yore.
A lady who happened to be in a delicate state of
health was brought to bed by the sound of the
surgeon’s saw at work on the other person’s skull.
Ugh!
# * #
At the swearing-in of Mr. Justice Manning
as a N.S.W. Supreme Court Judge, the members
of the bench appeared in full regalia—scarlet and
ermine, black and gold, full-bottomed wigs and
other “properties ” which will be put in the fire or
otherwise treated with contempt when Men not
Millinery is the watchword, and Young Australia
really becomes a nation. When Andrew Jackson
was to be sworn in as President of the Republic he
rode down unattended on his old grey horse, and
after the ceremony he quietly unhitched the horse
and rode away again. The Australian ideal of
official inauguration will be closer to the Andrew
Jackson plan than to the effete ceremonies of king-
worshipping Torydom.
* * *
At Judge Manning’s swearing-in the court
was crowded with a select company, the general
public being very carefully excluded. Even mem-
bers of the profession found it difficult to obtain
admission. When, in 1873, Sir James Martin —
a fine example of that race of big-headed
men of whom all the great advocates are
made—was sworn in as Chief Justice, the court
was open to the public and was filled, not with
highly-perfumed ladies escorted by stick-sucking
dudes and boys in sailor-suits, but by men who
had been with the new Chief in many a political
fray, and who, having known him from boyhood,
rejoiced to see their friend, the native-born strong
man, at the summit of his noble ambition.
» * #
Gov. Hopetoun will be “ surrounded by a
brilliant staff ” —not brilliant mentally, you know
—only brilliant. The largest potato on the salver
is “Melud ” Rosehill, heir, we are told with bated
breath, to the Earldom of Northesk : then there
is a young person named De Moleyns, who will
be Lord Ventry some day if his constitution is
better than his father’s and the British Constitu-
tion keeps moving along nicely; and, finally,
there are a few others who, having heard that the
gilded Australian female dotes on the military,
have come out to let her dote.
* * |*
E. B. Holt, of Bank of New Zealand
fame, left Australia, a fortnight ago, to seek for-
tune anew in another land. It was originally Holt’s
intention to start business in Sydney, and try to
redeem the past, but he received so little en-
couragement from his erstwhile friends—many of
whom he put on the high road to fortune —that he
abandoned the idea. His wife, the gallant and
steadfast woman to whose persistent pleading he
owed his release, went with him. Holt attributed
all his misfortunes to having too many fi’iends.
“ I had too many friends — once ” would be a fit-
ting epitaph to Holt’s Australian career.
IDYLL OF THE “CUP.”
I met her on the lawn
(’Twas before the Melbourne Cup)
She was lovely as the dawn
When it wakes a fellow up ;
Her dress was like the cream
That you see upon the milk,
And her bonnet was a dream
Trimmed with yellow-greeny silk.
Oh, we chatted, she and I
(We belong to the elite),
Of the horses, and the sky,
And the “ dreadful ” folks you meet;
I begged a little flower
Which she wore upon her breast,
And for something like an hour ,
I was numbered with the blest.
I praised her frock and “style”
(Always pleases ’em, begad !)
And she answered with a smile
That she thought it wasn't had :
“Nun’s veiling’s nice and light,”
Said that graceful little fawn;
Did she say that to invite
A proposal on the Lawn ?
At once I saw a chance,
A chance to learn ray fate s
I gazed at her askance
And put the question straight;
I harped upon that word,
Word “nun,” in lovers’way ;
She said “ Don’t be absurd ”
But she didn’t turn away.
“ Did she mean to take the veil
And be a nun for life,
Or would she (same old tale)
Be a fellow’s little wife ?”
Quoth she, “ I’ll be a nun
To all who come to woo ;
Yes all, save only one —
But take the “ veil ” for you.”
Ah ! sweetest jest that e’er
Fell from a woman’s lips ;
We walked about on air,
Nor gave a thought to “ tips ”;
It seems that Bravo won,
And Carbine got a “ place ”
We were whispering in the sun,
And we never saw the race.
Now Providence can work its will
In many ways we’re thinking,
And yet It don’t bring in a bill
To stop the people drinking :
It sends the ram, controls the gala
Which rages o’er the ocean—
Still Providence permits the sale
Of alcoholic lotion.
The publicans turn on their taps
At boozers’ invitations,
And every drop of pison saps
The colony’s foundations;
Munro gives vent to grief intense
And howls until he’s heated—
He fears the schemes of Providence
Are sure to be defeated.
For Providence, it seems, had planned
A nation transcendental,
Whose powers should be great and grand
(Both physical and mental) —
A nation for the world to fear
Beyond all comprehension ;
And now the influence of beer
Is thwarting this intention.
A matter to be much deplored
By Scotia’s son seraphic-
O ! all in vain he asks the Board
To crush the liquor traffic ;
Some say ’twas thought of long ago :
Abstain we all had got to,
But when the Board saw .1. Munro
He said ’twere better not to.


Government Advertisements.
T
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 19, 1889.
ENDERS EOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Broken-hill Gaol, Erection of
Broken-hill Post and Telegraph
Office, Erection
Court-house, Junee, Erection of
Coraki Post and Telegraph Office
Bridge, Warrego River at Gum-
bali on roads Bourke to Wanaar-
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
ing
Custom House, Newcastle, Re-
pairs (fresh tenders)
Little Bay Hospital. Additions
Repairs, Court House, Armidale
Police Barracks, Deepwater—
Erection
Court House, Inverell—Fencing
Technological Museum, Drainage
(fresh tenders)
Low - level Bridge, Mangrove
Creek-road, Gosford to Wol-I
lombi
Bridge in approach to Murray!
River Bridge, at Mulwala
Alterations Protestant Orphan
School Parramatta Wednesday
Roads Department, Annual Con- Dec. 4,
tracts, 1890. A deposit of £5 at 11 o’clock,
required with tender for each]
contract.
Ship Chandlery, Supply of
Oils, Plates, <fec., ditto
Plate, Bar Iron, &c., ditto
Ironmongery, ditto
Ouarry Tools, ditto
Indiarubber Goods, Hose, &c.,
ditto
Boats, ditto
Pilot’s Residence, Richmond River
Heads, Erection of
Supply of Hardwood, Colonial
Pine, Oregon, Baltic, &c., for the
Hunter River District, 1890.
Harbours and Rivers Branch.
£5 deposit required. (Fresh
tenders.)
Conveyance of Coal from New-
castle to Nambuccra River dur-!
ing 1890 (fresh tenders). £5
deposit required.
Lockup, Yass, Erection of
Bridge, Parramatta River, at
O'Connell-street, Parramatta —
ContractNo. 1, Supply of Iron| Wednesday,
Piers Dec. 18,
Contract No. 2, Erection of at 11 o’clock.
Timber Bridge on Iron
Piers
Removing Snags from Mullet
Creek, &c., &c. 1
BRUCE SMITH.
Business Announcements.
fj BHicB'.u'ooj is
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far mperior to all the other
Cornett 1 hare tried.”
| (Signed) Marie Rose.
Will not, Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y & N.
Corset stamped “Y& N Patent
THE
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. HO,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
tw Sold by nil Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING
COCOA.
-FALLON’S-
CKLKHRATRI)
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
INDUIN’ (i. GOER TZ,
Stock ami Share Broker,
BRISBANE
Mrtnhrr' nf the Brisbane Sl >ck Kxrharinr.
Amusements.
rjIHEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson, ’
Garner and Masgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
of
Miss Jennie Lee
in the
Xicket-of-Leave-MiaML.
Admission—5s., 3s., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
J£ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE*
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
THE GREATEST RACING DRAMA OF THE AGE,
by Dion Boucicault, Esq., entitled,
T lx e F lying Scu d.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
Bjp OWN HALL, YOUNG
(Late Mechanics’ Institute).
The extensive Additions and Improvements
thereto being completed, the Hall (which is capable
of seating about 700 persons) is now available for
the use of Dramatic Companies.
The Stage is large, and fitted with many Changes
of Scenery with all necessary appliances, the whole
brilliantly illuminated with 100 16-o.p. Electric
Lights, which can be instantaneously switched on
or off at will.
Terms on application to
W. M. BARKER,
Town Clerk.
QRITERION THEATRE;
Sale Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucioault.
General Manager ... Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.45.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
The Celebrated Play
DIPLO M C Y.
By arrangement with Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Interpreted by the
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
Royal museum to oyal museum
and *** AND
PALACE OF AMUSEMENT,
Immediately opposite Town Hall, George Street.
Sole Proprietor ... ... Mr. John Solomon.
A GREAT SUCCESS!
Five Splendid Floors Full of Attractions!
THE DAILY RENDEZVOUS!
Amusements and Exhibitions of all Descriptions !
Concert Koom ! Freak of Nature Koom !
ILLUSION ROOM!
Median leal .Model Koom! Variety Koom!
One Shilling to all. Children Sixpence.
OTIS ELEVATOR. ELECTRIC LIGHT.
NOVELTIES ALWAYS ENGAGED.
HAROLD ASHTON, Manager.
Q.AIETY THEATRE-
I;AST TWO NIGHTS.
The Continental Eldorado entertainment.
Professor "W. Perron,
—AND
Miss A.cla Fitzroy,
THE ANTI-SPIUITUALTSTS.
Prices, 35., 25., Is.
T. V. TWINNING.
B ONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, (id. Trains to Gate—Fare, 4d.
QYCLORAMA!
The greatest battle in the world’s most mo-
mentous civil war is fought to its dread close daily
at the Cyclorama.
Where is it? Opposite Red fern Terminus.
Open 10 to 10. Sunday Next (i falf-prioe), 3to 10.
Have you seen it?
Business Announcements.
"What is Homr without a Pictuhr?"
Xi. bee nsr asco zisr x_,
(Late K. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
H. HI L D E R~—
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER.
Writ, C Tindery, «tc.,
I Vhcltsale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GKOROK STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
JRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
IOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows;—
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £20 to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates; —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
N
ORDDEUTSCHER
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from '
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID hy DIRECT MAIL and
‘ PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable);—
Steamer.
Commander.
Leave
Sydney
noon.
1889.
Leave I
Mel-
bourne. i
Leave
Adelaide
Sema-
phore.
1889,
1889.
Kaiser Wil-
helm II. .. L. Stormer ..Nov. 30 Dec. 5 Dec. 11
Elbe .. .. C. Thalenhorst Dec. 28 Jan. 2 Jan. 8
Habsburg .. G. Thumann. . Jan. 29 Feb. s'Feb. 6
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£14 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo arc hooked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
w ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-Oeneral of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under:—
I | Arrive
Tons. Commander, j \%dno8 Francisco,
I at 4 p.m. i
I I
3000 II. 0. Morse ..Nov. 27 Deo 21
3000 H. M. Hayward Dec. 24 Jan 18
I I at 8 p.m. 1
Steamer.
Alameda
Mariposa j
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric l ight and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and hove at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501b. “Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £03 to £66.
Time cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and .ill other infonna-
‘ion ipply nt the Company's Olliers, 15 Fridge street.
E. P. HOUGHTON, Acting Manager.
Furniture, &c.
N
EWTON AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
■ AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
~ JELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any i>osition, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and -with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body;
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
30s.; without Stand, 25s.
D
Packing in canvas, If required, 2s. 6d. extra.
~ RAWING-ROOM SUITES, . Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
g
w
ALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
g
Drawing-room
cabinets.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Nkwton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.
g
gEDST EADS, all sizes
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding. All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
g
Sl' KING M AT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 1 la. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13. fid. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. (id.; Washstands, from 12s. (in.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s. ; Clothes Horses, from
10s. fid. ; Writing Tables, witli drawers, from 50s.
/ i ARDEN SEATS, 10s. Verandah Chairs,
VUT Indian Long-aum Locnoks. NEWION
and LAMB.
T> ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
I%j 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from l*s*
(id., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Nkwton
and Lamb, Furniture W arehousemen, Spring am
O'Connell Streets. . ■ >
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Nkwton & Lamb, Importers, O'Connell
Street.
N
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN, ___
CABIN ETM AK KRS, UP 11OLSTERER3
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
Another subsidised Australian paper dead.
Some startling revelations are probable in
connection with the jobbery and general corrup-
tion in Brisbane municipal circles. “Tell me the
old, old story.”
William Michael Rossetti writes to Francis
Adams :—
To me it seems that this resolute and successful cam-
paign of the dock-labourers and their numerous allies
amounts to a more definite driving-in of the thin end of
the wedge of Socialism than anything else which had
hitherto occurred in this country, and that it will remain
not without some ulterior results in the future.
Nobbs, the Brisbane Anglican clergyman,
about whom such ugly statements have been made,
has returned from Norfolk Island. Nobbs is your
typical modern cleric—frank and liberal in his
sentiments, a lover of manly exercises, utterly
opposed to Sabbatarianism, without a particle of
cant. The Chadband ticket is clean played out,
and won’t realise a cent. You must develope with
the times, or bust.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Tasmanian Parliament will be soon
adjourned. The results of the sitting can be
summed up in one word—Jaw !
M ‘llwraith’s first appearance on a
Ministerial bench was in the Macalister Ministry
in 1874, where he sat beside Griffith, who also
made his first appearance on a Ministerial bench.
History repeats itself now and again.
The Queensland Government, “narked”
at the Courier rounding on them, contemplate
starting a new Brisbane daily, and private pro-
spectuses are already around. Millionaire Patti -
son is prepared to put down his share, and the
talk is to entice away all the best Courier men by
princely salaries, it is kept so close that Buzacott
with extreme difficulty obtained authentic infor-
mation about the prospectus.
T>
i
M
K.
ei
O
s
o
h h
/Uenlts
DELISSAs. PHILLIPS
3&J Barrack Street.
jgYDNEY TAKES THE LEAD.
The Sydney Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdresssing Palace
AND
TOILETTE UEQUISITES,
82 ICinXTG- STREET.
(Directly opposite the Arcade),
NOW OPEN.
The Public Verdict—A long-felt want filled,
an Establishment that Sydney can be proud of.
No Expense has been spared in fitting up this
Establishment for the convenience and comfort of
its patrons.
A large staff of the very best Gentlemen Work-
men are employed in the Ladies’ and Gentlemen's
Hairdressing Rooms, and all work is guaranteed.
A SELECT STOCK OF
Gentlemen's Mercery* Perfumery*
Ladies’and Gentlemex’s Toilet Requisites.
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco, &c-,
,S old at the Lowest Cash Prices.
LAUNDRY AGENCY, &c., &c.
Sydney and Melbourne Daily and Weekly Papers
kept on File.
All Ladies and Gentlemen are invited to visit
and inspect this establishment, and be convinced
that it is not equalled in the Southern Hemisphere.
HOURS:
From 8.30 a.m. to 7 p.m. SATURDAYS, 9 p.m.
-THE-
Fresh Food & |ce Co.,
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
The s appears very wonderful, hut it is
quite true.
KT Weekly Accounts.
1)0 YOU WANT TO KNOW
HOWTO DISPLAY
YOUR ADVERTISEMENTS? WRITE TO VS
F, T. WIHDLK Si CO., Advertising Exports, 15 Tost
Ofllco Chambers, Sydney.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, &.c.
Should write or call upon
A. H. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
fIGiKH •! TOBACCONISTS SIINBRIES-
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Pawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to—
A.. M!. Marita &. Co ,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Strceet, Sydney,
AM) AT I,OS DON.
Telephone, No. 919.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Pishing and Picnic Parties provided, lame
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilwinstee to make her
v isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMIKTSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
HAwson
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
m
K
F
E
c
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d.
CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacconists,
h h
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
GET o*/x^
X
vV
r' %. rf,
\ y*
A’‘4,
A
(■//
wm&
£
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 KENT STREET (Two Doors from Market Street\ SYDNEY,
—IMPORT—
IEJ I G- IHI-C LASS lITDI AU & CHIITA
TEAS
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6c1., Is. 9cl. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
• 0
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS Oft PACKETS THROUGHOUT’THE COLONY
DEMOS’S IMPERIAL.
A SHILLING’S WORTH!
“PUNCH” OFFICE, MELBOU RN E.
John Qarraway's celebrated Fantasia,
“VICTORIA, the CIRC QUEEN.”
The mere whiff of a few extracts from which drew
fire in a column notice by London Daily Nkws.
It's loyal to the backbone and spinal marrow.
Felix Patrick’s great Australian National Republican
Drama,
l»o«cr l.nlor, and (lie Kalllc of Eureka Blockade.
Jas. 11. Lafloud’s thrilling Melbourne Cup Tale,
“A. HAPPY POLICEMAN.”
Six Romances! Three ok them Australian!
Tenth Year of the Imperial.
nr It has lived down four highly-puffed rivals, and will
live down all the rest unless they put in more ginger.
“Oh, this has an Australian smack. It’s original and I
like it.” —Public Opinion.
N.B.—Next best thing to a pipe in the bush.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
■—that'Pemcll’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
BOOK of NATURE and Illustrated
Matrimonial Quids, planation of the struc-
ture and uses of the organs of life and generation in man
and woman, intended especially for the married, or those
intending to marry, and who conscientiously and honestly
desire to inform themselves upon the intent and nature
of marriage and its duties, to which is added A COMPLETE
MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases of the generative
organs, whether resulting from infection or sexual excesses
and abuse, with much other valuable and highly important
information, illustrated with more than fifty engravings,
by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. Price 3s. (id., post 4s.
The Fruits of Philosophy or Private. Companion for
Married People, post Is. 2d. Mrs. Besant’sLaw of Popula-
tion, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful Song Book, extra large,
Is. (id. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s. Aristotle, complete,
3s. (id., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. 6d., post Is. 9d. New
complete Fortune Teller, 2s.
“ The Matron s Manual of Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs ; price 75., posted 7s. Cd.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” price 6d.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates; price 75.,
post 7s. 6d.
The arts of Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling any one to become an expert Boxer and
Athlete, illustrated with fifty engravings, price Is., post
free. Agent for London Hkynolds, Rkfßrbk, Dispatch,
Dublin Frrkm an, Glasgow Mail. Advanced, and Republican
literature on sale.
Six* Robert Bear,
Radical Book Storks,
IOMi PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
0 fcOVOAT t's
CASHMERE
O.
OUQUET
Cashmere Bouquet is the most popular
of all American Toilet Soaps.
The materials of which it is made are
selected with the greatest regard for puri-
ty, and for the soothing and beneficial
effect which they impart to the skin and
complexion.
The perfume of Cashmere Bouquet is a
skilful combination of rare and delicate
odors. This perfume is introduced into
the soap by elaborate and powerful ma-
chinery, and each cake is stamped with
such enormous pressure (30 tons) that it
will outlast all others.
A DIFFICULT CASE.
There is a certain learned judge who sits in one
of the London High Courts of Justice, who says
that patent medicines, or, what he is pleased to
term them, “quack medicines,” should never be
used, except on the advice of a medical man. The
judge may be correct as to the large majority of
patent medicines, but there are exceptions to this
rule. If our readers will carefully follow the his-
tory of the case below, we feel quite sure that they
will agree with us. The case in question is that
of the young son of Mr. Thomas Buzzard, of
Belton, Uppingham. Rutland, who in January,
1881, was attacked with rheumatism in the feet,
which rapidly extended over the entire body. The
family doctor was called in, who diagonised the
case “ rheumatic fever,” and attended the patient
until October, 1882, when he gave the case up as
beyond his skill, ordering him to be sent to the
Leicester Infirmary, where, at the end of two
weeks, he was discharged as incurable. From
here he was brought home completely crippled,
and very badly deformed, his feet being
drawn up to his hips, and seemingly firmly
fixed. He was perfectly helpless, and suffered
most intense pain. As a last resource he was placed
under the care of a celebrated physician in Leices-
ter, where he remained for a long time, but con-
tinued to grow worse. Having now been a helpless
cripple for over three years, and his case being
pronounced incurable by some of the most cele-
brated medical men in the Midland Counties, his
parents were persuaded by Mrs. Mary Ann Halls,
who lives at Uppingham, to use St. Jacobs oil,
Mrs. Halls relating to them her own case of having
been a cripple for years, and being permanently
cured by the use of the oil. A few bottles were
purchased, with the result that, after applying the
contents, the son was able to get about on crutches.
Continuing the use of the oil, he became per-
fectly cured, and Mr. Buzzard, writing to
the proprietors . of St. Jacobs oil, under date
of March 1G, 1888, says that his son now
often walks eight miles in a single day,
and that he is perfectly cured. The case
is regarded by himself and wife, as well as his
neighbours, as a most miraculous cure. From the
foregoing, as well as.from many similar cases which
might be cited, it is clearly shown that the pre-
paration in question, although under the ban as a
patent medicine, possesses wonderful curative
properties ; and, it being an outward application,
can do no one any harm. While the learned judge,
may advise us “not to use patent medicines unless
prescribed by a member of the medical profession,”
there are cases, as the facts above clearly show,
where St. Jacobs oil has accomplished in a very
short period that which the most eminent medical
men have vainly tried to accomplish for three
years, and then signally failed.
A DUCAL OPINION.
A leading jeweller, in speaking of the very
handsome cut of the Waterbary Watch Com-
pany which appeared in a recent issue of the
Review, gave your correspondent the following
little incident illustrating the popularity and
high estimation in which the American low-priced
watches are held in England. He says : “ While
in England last summer I happened to be in the
vicinity of Eaton Hall, Chester, one of the country
seats of the Duke of Westminster, where there
was a meeting of yeomanry and some 200,000
people assembled. All were indulging in games
and festivities, the Duke being present in person
and mingling freely with the others, when his
Grace was accosted by one of his friends, who re-
marked that there were reported to be several
pickpockets present, and that he had better look
out far his watch. The duke laughingly replied
that he was grateful for the warning, as he had a
watch which he valued highly, although of small
cost, and that he would hate to part with it, at
the same time pulling out a handsome Waterbury.
The master of the hounds informed me .that he
wore this watch in preference to all others.” This
endorsement from one of the nobility whose income
is 700,000d0l per annum is not bad for an Ameri-
can product. This is authentic, and is not an
advertisement. — Jewellers’ Review.
Make up your mind before you buy a watch
what you want it for. If it is only for an orna-
ment, almost any kind will do as well as another,
but the costlier the better. If. you want a good
timekeeper you should buy a Waterbury.


Business Announcements.
SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
[f 2
if
m
IT*-?
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales lahl at llw r C(»aitXO'liuas
Ncic Jiao ms.
O U T I) C) O R
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
I 32 Chapel St., Prahran,
i 2 Albert St., Windsor, )
Branch
Offices
V p\ ! I ' /
v Photocmphic
_VtEWS|/^PORTR^ITS
T> O Y A L HOTEL,
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA. VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETT INC STAPLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 082.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
WESTERN AUSTRALIA..
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
The CAPITA I, CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING- SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Knell.
Small Deposit. Ka\v Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plain, and full information
posted to any address on application to
The Intercolonial Investment £o„ Limits 1
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
GBD
PIPES.
THE BEST 111 T IIS WORLD.
WllOtBSAfiK' AoKNTS !
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
2AI (’Inrcncc Street.
First Prize MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans’
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you hake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO.,
CIIiCULA R QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, <fc
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKER S,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
AUCTIONEERS.
GRAIKT SikLESMEW.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 X "ST or k Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. 11. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
I Se.l //
fVSr
m ap/j
V
TO YOUKTG ME3XT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
T'HE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine. Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, anil
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED AVITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
■
*
r: i --r *ff- . I ' oX
t- irU I 1 '
c i 1
~»
mil
U
ELECTRIC PHOTO tNC. CO., 8 BRIDGE ST» SYDNEY
The Oxford
H. THORPE
motel. King Street, Sydney.
PrOI’RIKTOK.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just lakditjg
Farlelgh, IVTettlielm, & 00.
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
lO x YORK x STREET, x SYDISTEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(-X )-
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all
IMPORTED LEA 111. Its. At. : and of the following Srt.ei.M, Links: I'eerless
Itlnrking. Tanners' Tools and Materials. [ W Indents Executed
Details, including MACHINERY
•**«••" I’Olish, >iililan
on taiournhle Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS
room
L.TIN
CONSU
m
3 as
bs richards.- —isffISSBSBSSSS
m
UKDWTOTDRy
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now hears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi:
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
lhe day, circles round the- eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowel*, specks before the eyes,
bashfulncm, discoid eutedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the cars and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of fid. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
t ion and prescription may assist you in restoring
gome poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write -to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the cam, send for his famous me iical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume wiU be found a Ist of carefully-pro-
pared questions, which will, in.all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they arc destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street;
(Off Pitt Street North)
S Y D IST IE AT.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION Ul! Uli
AGE’S RETROSPECT.


BEALE <sc CO.'S
NEW WAREHOUSE.
.
ir>
’ V
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
482* 484* & 488 George Street*
REVOLUTIONISING
THE PIA.KTO TRADE.
Messrs. Eeale Ss Co.'s Great Enterprise.
mHERE can be no questioning the fact that the Piano
Trade of these Colonies has undergone a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desirable
change certainly no firm has contributed more than
Messrs. Beale and Company. During the time high prices
continued the trade was held by a few, and hundreds of
homes now rendered attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce could dream of becoming the ultimate
owners of the instrument which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic life.
When Beale and Company commenced business they
had quietly gauged this condition of affairs in Australia,
and they began operations on a plan which could alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such as
they proposed. With the Australian selling branch of
their enterprise they resolved to combine the manufacture
of Pianos in Germany—the centre of the world’s trade for
that instrument- But the experts sent out here for the
purpose of fully determining what was best fitted for
colonial requirements reported that it was essential to
have a special make of piano to suit our climate—an in-
strument as different as those made for Europe as Aus-
tralia is different from the Old World. The result of this
was the production of the staunchest pianoforte of
modern times—the iron-framed “ Hapsburg.” The in-
strument is regarded by the most capable experts of
Europe as the Production of the Age, combining as
it does every feature of the highest class instrument with
the maximum of strength and durability, and it was placed
on the market at prices much under what other firms and
manufacturers had previously demanded. Although it
took almost endless trouble and long, patient labour to
produce the design of the “Inimitable Hapsburg,”yet once
produced the demand grew so rapidly, and has become so
great, that the enterprising originators are able to out-
distance all competitors for both quality and price. The
peculiar construction of the iron frame, the excellence
of the wires, and the unique movements have, with all
other factors, contributed to this splendid success. No
other instrument nossesses to the same degree such rich
full, clear, bell-like tones, so noticeable in the “Haps-
burg,” especially in the higher grades, while strength,
solidity, and imperviousness to climatic influences have
been so well looked to that whether on the coldest, bleak-
est spots of New Zealand or our own Monaro Plains, or in
the hottest of our Western and Northern areas, this
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, but improves its
tone and consequent value even after years of use. And
it must continue so. The irenius and experience of the
mechanical world in this branch of art are embodied in
this one instrument—the inimitable “ Hapsburg and
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute in which
it is held. Beale & Company have placed the
“Hapsburg” with thousands of families in Australia.
Homes in the far-distant back blocks, and homes in the
city, are not only enlivened but are made purer and better
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved to
do a large trade by selling these superior instru-
ments at prices and on terms demanded for the
lower grades, and success has crowned their efforts.
They do by far the largest business, and hold the
largest stocks in the colonies. They give their best
efforts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Time-payment which they have made peculiarly
their own. The correspondence department is of itself a
huge undertaking ; every mail brings its burden of let ters.
From the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
the astute merchant they come. And they came too
from clergymen, from doctors and solicitors, from civil
servants, and from the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every grade
and class now recognise the influence which music exerts
for good in the life of the home. And every writer re-
ceives courteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsburg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the following Advantages —
-Ist.—The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverberated
by a sounding board of special construction, are
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tin-
kettly, or metallic sounds so common in cheap
Pianos.
2nd.—Being double oblique the strings are of a
greater length and fuller tone than in the old
straight-strung Pianos.
3 r( p—The action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4th. —All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
sth.—They are all seven Octaves.
6fch. —They have consolidated Iron Frames of
great strength, thus resisting the rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate, whereby tuning is
only required at long intervals.
7th.—They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cock-
roaches, silver-fish, mice, &c. They have wire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by vermin,
and other unique improvements devised for
similiar ends.
gfch.—The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers,
instead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every Piano except the Haps-
burg.
Dth.—They have brass or nickel-faced Wrest-
planks, instead of the old-fashioned perishable
style. , ,
10th. —Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals,
11th.—The outer cases are handsome in design,
and of durable beautiful woods; thev can be
had in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or in
ebony and gold.
12th.—No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a Hapsburg Piano
upon easy terms of payment. No charge will be
made for packing or for packing cases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by pest or from our
own travellers everywhere.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing 1 machine.
PASTOBALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season,
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & CO,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
#
XJSE
liebis COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
M‘Nab’s Galley Brand Whisky.
Awarded Gold Medal for Excellence at
GALLEY,.>J RANI) ii,
FINE OLD HIGHLAND
whisk;
until
P
V
y
l /
Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1889.
“SWEET SPIRIT, HEAR MY PRAYER.”
LICHTNER & CO.
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET.
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STREET.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
-STOCK—
IMPORTERS.
K.
-
y.
t
'StM
j>' I vs/-1 ■;
*r- ,A
*** 1 >***
x
MT SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE •»
—or—
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS
And All Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
) :(
CHEAP* AMATEUR OUTFITS.
Business Announcements.
THE WINNING NUMBERS.
BRITISH PLATE
& SHEET CLASS.
lP
7^
0
C~>
cn
merchants]
ois
t
a ti
mmt
o'*
'V <&?
PC
€
£
r-*'
5/^
&
' s CHUSfS&‘ *
an#
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORATORS.
AGENTS WANTED in every town to Sell
Australian Natives Association’s
National Fete and Art Union Tickets.
£9OO in prizes ; Is. each, or 23 for £l. For further
particulars, apply to SECRETARY, 119 Swanston-
street, Melbourne.
COLEHANEaSOHS
im
THE TREE OF LIFE.
EuCALYPTE OILSa.
Victory Ointment^
The only pure Eucalypte In the IVorlil
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all a'ftections of the < best and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Euca’ypte Pills, Eucalypte
Bair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is (he best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
feop’e Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot -251 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Evei y-
where. Beware of Imitations.
h
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
DOWS
fVEMBROCATION.
if
M
\ X SOLO
» V
S 3


HORDERN
an<a C O DMCI* -A. 3NT "X",
1 NEXT ROYAL ARCADE, OPPOSITE CENTRAL MARKETS,
POE IP RIET T YT DRESSES I EOE S W EET HATS _A_ TsTID BOIOTETS
jy FOE CHAEMINTG- PARACHUTES I IFOR LOVELY GLOVES I
or all isinds of H oliday A. ttire (F ashionable and. H easonable)
YOU CANNOT EQUAL
T
HORDERN and
COMPANY, 486, 488, 490 Georg-e-street, Sydney,
Next lloyal Arcade, right opposite Central Markets.
THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY.
175
(Late Crunsler’s Cafe)
itt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
heir new cusine a trial. --n r . * JAMES 0- MAEQUAND, MfUlElgGr-
INDISPENSABLE JOB
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate SlUl
Tf you wish to Protect yourself against CHAPPED
HASPS and CRACKED SKIS , and to keep YOUR
COMPLEXION in good condition during the whole
year use
MOTJSOKT’S
COCOA BUTTER SOAP.
(Savon au beurre de Cacas.)
This celebrated Soap consists chiefly of Cocoa Butter, (ex-
tracted in the matin fact are of Chocolate) which in THE
MILDEST FAT KNOWS, and possesses a wonder f ally
healin'/ and softening influence upon the Skin. The
beneficent properties of thin product make themselves
apparent by the delicious creamy lather it produces,
rendering even the coarsest SKIX AS SOFT AS
VEL VET.
Cocoa Batter Soap Is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
mnr.son & co., perfumers & toilet soap manufacturers,
FRANKFORT-ON-TIIE-MAINK.
LONDON: 32&33HAINSKLL-ST., F..C. PARIS: 29 RUE RAD7.IERILE.
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
sQEP
FROM
Neuralgia,
Nervousness,
Headaches,
Biliousness,
Wasting Disease, Debility, &c., &g.,
When yon can he Cured
BY USING
LARMER’S
TONIC.
CELEBRATED
Price, 2s. 6d and 55.; Post, Is
Extra
CAIJfS and €o., Chemists,
78 KING ST.. SYDNEY.
For Sale !».; all ChemlHls,
M. W. & Co.
Gita’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... X 200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
New Business:
1887 There were Issued 19,557 I’olleles.
1888 „ „ » 34.C84 „
1889 up l« 28lh October 48,833 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death.*
JAMES P. OAIiVAN,
WM. ALEX. SMITH,
Managing Director.
Secretary.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF. SHIIFOIEIIDIEIR,
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
JOHN BXJ CEHAM,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool° Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Horse Rugs, Nose Bags, Oiled Loin Cloths. Send
to or call at
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
M: erchant, Sydney axid M elbourne
First Award;
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
—% —
BUGQIES, mmi BUCKSOAm
PONY CARTS, &c., &c.
—% —
Express & Lumber Waggons*
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
—% —
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
— x —
Agricultural Machinery.
h
Mrlbournr Office:
No- 2 St- James’ Buildings, William Street-
Sydney Offices
22 & 24 Clarence Street
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
IMPORTERS OF HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
409 KEXT STREET, SYDNEY.
Packed in 12, 20, and 401 b Caddies
@ Is. 6d., Is. 9d., and 2s. per lb.
i 4
'yM
O A
-
ft
i
yyz
r
z> ' - yyi
lyyyy;.
ytyom^
r
r
r
%
FT
i T |
Delivers d free to any Railway Station
or Port in New South Wales.
“No. John ; no more Tea from you. I buy now from the London and Sydney Tea Company.”
What Mr. O’Brien Overheard in the
Eailway Carriage.
Joses : I want to settle in a nice mountain township on
the railway line, -where the climate is fresh and bright,
and good for a feeble constitution, and where I can buy a
nice Township or small Farm Block at a low price, with a
fair chance' of its rising in value. Where do you advise
me to buy ?
Brown: There are plenty of mountain townships, and
many of them are. very.beautiful places, but in most of
them the'price of land is as high as it is near Sydney.
Jones: Oh, I can’t afford to pay a great price for my
land.
Brown: Then you must purchase in one- of the rising
townships. There is one I know of where you can buy
good quarter-acre blocks at ten shillings a foot—surely
that is cheap enough for you.
Jones : Yes. I can manage that; but will it increase in
value ?
Brown : Certainly. Why," you can buy it now in the
main streets of the town.
Jones; The town that is to be, you mean.
Brown : I mean what 1 say. The place has a first-class
hotel, two general stores, butchers and bakers, public
school, church, post and telegraph progress com-
mittee, temperance society, and cricket club. There are
any number of farms around it, and the people are
energetic and plucky, and mean’to make things go.
Jones ; And you say the land is ten shillings a foot in
the main streets ?
Brown : I do ; but I mean to say that it won’t be at
that price for long. I’ll go further and say that you can
buy first-class farming land, mind you, really good farm-
ing land, that will grow anything, fifteen minutes’ walk
from the Railway Station, for fifteen pounds an acre.
Jones : Oh, yes; but I don’t want a thousand acres. l
Brown : No, I know you don’t; but you can buy ten-
acre blocks for that money, on long terms, too, land that
you can farm for a year or two, and then sub-divide and
sell for allotments. That’s a new idea, isn’t it ?
Jones ; Well, I had an idea of purchasing a block cheap,
and participating in the “ unearned increment,” I think
they call it; but I had no idea that I could purchase a
block to sub-divide.
Brown : You can buy ten acres of good garden land
close to the place which I speak of, for fifteen pounds per
acre. Do you know how much that is per foot ?
Jones : No.
Brown : Well, it’s only one shilling and threepence per
fcot frontage, with a depth of one hundred and fifty feet,
and don’t you forget it.
Jones: I don’t think I can raise £lsoall at once.
Brown: You don’t requite it. The Vendors only ask
you to give them a deposit of one pound per acre, and
you pay one pound per acre on the first days of June and
December in each year till the purchase-money and in-
terest is paid off.
Jones: But what about the interest?
Brown : If you are disposed to pay off the £l5O before
the end of the first twelve months,- you are not only
charged no interest, but you are allowed a discount of 6
per cent. That’s liberal, isn’t it ?
Jones : Yes.
Brown : Then if you can pay off within two years, you
arc only charged 4 per cent., and if within three years, 5
per cent. If you are more than three years paying up,
you are charged" 6 per cent.
Jones : And where is this place you think so much of ?
Brown : THIRLMERE. Four miles beyond Pioton,
and 1000 ft. above sea level, which is rapidly rising in
public estimation as one of the most prosperous of the
mountain retreats on the Southern railway line. ; The
climate is agreeable and invigorating, and highly suitable
for those constitutions which are unable to bear the moist
heat of the sea coast. The soil of the surrounding district
is rich and good, and many acres are now growing fruit
trees, grapes, and crops of various descriptions. 'The
hills around abound with mineral wealth and coal, and
shale outcrops are frequent.
Then you cannot do better than buy land at Thirlmere.
The Title is Torrens.
You can hear further from
Watkin & Watkin, 313 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Or the Vendors,
The British Australian Land & Banking Co., Limited,
Hoftnunq’s Buildings, 161 Pitt Street,
Who will be happy to supply you with plans and all in-
formation. And you can catch a train any day in the week
at 9.30 a.ni., arrive at Thirlmere about 12 ; you will find
the Agent, Mr. Frank Cabrera, waiting at the station,
who will show you the lots, and you can get back to Sydney
by 5 o’clock in the evening.
Falls B ridge Family
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished'and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, dco.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DUHTIANT Manager,
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Dr. westcotts amenorrhea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; Us. ltd. and 4s. (id.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Wool.
WINCHCOMBE. CABSON & CO.
Offloea :
Wool Stores : CTFNTHATj WHARF; Produce Stores; CTRfTTAII QUAY;
4 g MACQUARIE STREET NORTH. SYDNEY


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
J. LUDOWICI k SONS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting 1 ,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
%!*(/$ HLQ}O
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between Ktng and Market Streets.
“CHUBB AND PRABGBR,
EMPIRE PHOTOGRAPHIC GALLERIES’
BEALE'S, CHAMBERS.
482 Sc 484 George Street, opposite the Markets.
FOR High-class PORTRAITS the Sydney
Public are respectfully invited to pay a
Visit to the above Galleries, which are now ad-
mitted to be the Finest and most Complete Set of
Apartments devoted to Photography in the Aus-
tralian Colonies.
Note the Small Charge now made for Photcs
of tho Best Quality and Finish.
v TAKE ELEVATOR
Medical.
mmsmrs minimi.
By Royal Letters Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as Well to let them know that there is such
an ; rticle as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from ale Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green cbloUt is extracted frond the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOtILD SUFFER FROM PILES,
r when one application will relieve you?
Read thiS Letter and TMy for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephsori’s Oint :
ihent for Piles, and have found niiich relief front
using it_ You are at liberty td Use this if you feel
disposed.
I reiidain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office-.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colohy for
these pure Bitters shoWs they are superior to all
others and equalled by hone,
Facts Spear Louder than Words.
Read this sWorn testimony front h Well-known
citizen :
Statutory Declaration.
. “I, George Hewett, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows :
1 * That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed)
G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We recommed these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure, secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
t.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
TJiey Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1880.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned : —
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former'con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afHeted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
0&
Hotel-keepers all keep Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE HITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL RITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUUHU HITTERS.
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Solr Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
43, 45, 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Medical
V 4, r
mm \
is ,v *
f •«►.
wj.
M
■dv.
L I
><3
¥
»\W
Wanly Purity and Beauty
No tongue nor pen can do justice to the esteem
in which the Cuticura Remedies are held by the
thousands upon thousands whose lives have boon
made happy by the cure of agonizing, humiliating,
itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin,
scalp, arid blood, with loss bf hair,
Cuticura, the great Bkin Core, and Cuticura
Soap, ail exquisite Skill Beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, arid Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifie'f, internally, cure every form of skin
and blood disease, from pimples to scrofula.-
Having been a sufferer for two years and a half
from a disease caused by a bruise on the leg, and
having been cured by the Cuticura Remedies
when all other methods and remedies failed, I
deem it my duty to recommend them. I visited
Hot Springs to no avail, and tried several doctors
without success, and at last our principal druggist,
Mr. John P. Finlay (to whom I shall ever feel
grateful), spoke to me about Cuticura, and I con-
sented to give them a trial, with the result that I
am perfectly cured. There is now no sore about
me. I think I can show the largest surface where
my Bufferings sprang from of any one in the State.
ALEXANDER BEACH, Greenville, Miss.
Bold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PIM
PLUS, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticura Soap.
If I had known of the Cuticura REMEDIES
twenty-eight years ago, it would have saved me
$200.00 (two hundred dollars) and an immense
amount of suffering. My disease (Psoriasis) com-
menced on my head in a spot not larger than a cent.
It spread rapidly all over my body and got under
my nails. The scales would drop off of me all the
time, and my suffering was endless and without
relief. One thousand dollars would not tempt mo
to hard this disease over again. lam a poor man,
but feel rich to ho relieved of what some of the
debtors said was leprosy, some ringworm, pso-
riasis, etc. I took . . . and ... Sarsaparillas over
one year and a half, but no cure. I went to two or
three doctors, and no cure. I cannot praise the
Cutictjra Remedies too much. They have made
my skin as clear and free from scales as a baby’s.
All I used of them-was throe boxes of Cutictjra,
and three boffttlW of Cuticura Resolvent, and
two cakes of Cuticura Soap. If you had been
here and said you would have cured me for $200.00,
you would have had the money. I looked like the
picture in your book of Psoriasis (picture number
two, “ How to Cure Skin Diseases ”), but now I am l
as clear as any person ever was. Through force off
habit I rub my hands over my arms and legs to-‘
scratch once ia a while, but to no purpose. I am
all well. I scratched twenty-eight years, and it
got to be a kind of second nature to me. I thank
you a thousand times. Any one who reads this
may write to me and! will answer it.
DENNIS DOWNING, Watorbury, Vt.
HANDS
Soft, white, and free from chaps and
redness, by using Cuticura Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.-S.W.
Business Announcements.
Anglo Scandi
Cold Medal
Acknowledged
%The Best
,7^i
Kj
%ii,i
*Ppg|
MM'
psl
i
m
S£i/;
mifi
rS&i
;xA
llIg;
JMtom
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Peeve yobs to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition, London,
(By Special Appointment.)
Wholesale Agents : Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS. LONDON,
“BUGLE” BRAITD .A. Hi IE A JfTTf STOUT-
PUBLIC )( NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed eff on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the'
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand ’ offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrat* rs of the frauds.
A Liberal Rcmtrd will be given for information leading to con viction of the offenders.
)(
BALCHIN, JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney,
Agents for Messrs. Ml B. Foster & Sons.
A.alc for Kupper’a Elberfelcl Tj.r3s.jser Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
Mulligan’s Mare.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, Mulligan’s bar was the deuce of a place
To drink and to fight, and to gamble and race ;
The height of choice spirits from near and from far
Webe all concentrated dn Mulligan’s bar.
There was “ Jerry the SWell,” ahd the jockey-boy
Ned,
“ Hdg-bite-nle ” —so called front the shape of his
head—
And a man whom the boys, in their musical slang,
Designed as the “ Gaffer of Mulligan’s Gang.”
Now, Mulligan’s Garig had a racet to shd\k,
A bad ’uh to look at, a good ’uri to go ;
Whenever they backed her you safely might swear
She’d walk in a winner, would Mulligan’s mare.
But Mulligan, haying some radical views,
Neglected his business and got “oil the booze ;”
He took up with ru'riners—a treacherous ttoop—
Who gave him away and he “ fell in the soup.”
And sd it turned out on a fine summer day,
A bailiff turned up with a writ of
He walked to the bar with a manner serene,
“I levy,” said he, “ in the name of the Queeri.”
Then Mulligan wailted, in spit'e of the law,
To pay out the bailiff with “ one in the jaw
He drew out to hit him, but, ere you could wilik,
He changed his intentions and stodd him a drink.
A great consultation there straightway befel
'Twixt JoCkey-boy Neddy and Jerry the Swell,
And the man with the head, who remarked :
“ Why, you bet!
Dog-bite-me !” said he, “but we’ll diddle’em yet.
“ We’ll slip out the mare from her stall in a
crack,
And put in her place the old broken-down hack ;
The hack is so like her, I’m ready to swear
The bailiff will think he has Mulligan’s mare.
“ So out with the racer and in with the screw,
We’ll show him what Mulligan’s talent can do ;
And if he gets nasty and dares to say much
111 knock him as stiff as my grandmother’s
crutch. ”
Then off to the town went the mare and the lad ;
The bailiff came out, never dream’t he was “had”;
But marched to the stall with a confident air—
“ I levy,” said he, “upon Mulligan’s mare.”
He never would let her go out of his sight,
He watched her by day and he watched her oy
night,
For races were coming away in the West
And Mulligan’s mare had a chance with the best.
And, thinking to quietly serve his own ends,
He sent off a wire to some book-making friends :
“Get all you can borrow, beg, snavel, or snare
And lay the whole lot against Mulligan’s mare.”
The races came round, and a crowd on the course
Were laying the mare till they made themselves
horse,
And Mulligan’s party, with ardour intense,
They backed her for pounds and for shillings and
pence.
And think of the grief of the bookmaking host
At sound of the summons to go to the post—
For down to the start with her thorough-bred air
As fit as a fiddle pranced Mulligan’s mare !
They started, and off went the boy to the front,
He cleared out at once, and he made it a hunt;
He steadied as rounding the corner they wheeled,
Then gave her her head and she smothered the
field.
The race put her owner right clear of his debts,
He landed a fortune in stakes and in bets,
He paid the old bailiff the whole of his pelf,
And gave him a hiding to keep for himself.
So all you bold sportsmen take warning, I pray,
Keep clear of the running, you’ll find it don’t pay;
For the very best rule that you’ll hear in a week—
Is never to bet on a thing that can speak.
And whether you’re lucky or whether you lose,
Keep clear of the cards and keep clear of the booze,
And fortune in season will answer your prayer,
And send you a flyer like Mulligan’s mare.
BANJO.


READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the co!sny r :
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s;lBsdoz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic—a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; XBs doz.
Armstrong’s, Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., forallimpuritiesof the blood. 2s; 20s doz,
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s,Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in oases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica; &c., &ei 3s Cd; 36s doz*
Armstrong’s, Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
\ coughs, influenza, &c. 2sl§s doz. ,
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities.of the blood, &e. Is,; 8s doz. i
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; 8s doz. , ,
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, .rheumatic pains,’ &o. 2s; 18s dqz f
Armstrong’s, Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
\ tions and lung diseases., 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is Cd; 13s doz. .
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz. , ,
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s.
Armstrong’s 156 Mixture for discharges. 3s 6d.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s 6d &ss6d ; 30s & 58s doz. |
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s 6d; 20s do?. ., f 5 ,
Armstrong’s Podophyllin .Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
■ pleasant aperient. Is 6d; 15s doz.,
Annstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,’
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint nud Solvent, for painlessly
a removing corns, bunions, warts, &c.’ Is; 8? do?.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes), bd ;5s doz.'
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, fpr eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is 6d; 12s doz. f
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d ; 6s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
. muslin. Is; 8s per doz.
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline).for china,'
glass, wood, leather, &c. (id &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is ; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is (id ; (is (id & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment for horses. 2s ; & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &Is (id ; 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment the best remedy for
splints, curbs, etc. Is (id ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition for horses
(in tins), bd &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes',
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, &o.—
all ready mixed, (id ; 8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED dud SOLt) ONLY by Hi Ci ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
I Tbcssks, Bplts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Kuifi CXps, etc., ii English WkOLEsAtfi, Cost. fhk pM-ytst Stock in Sydney,
ITOR DIiUGS, CHEMICALS, LATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, §END DOR SPECIAL RRICE LIST (POSTED FREE).
Public Companies,
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, IS7B,
CAPITAL ■ . , - £500,000.
Sydney Branch :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
Brisbane Branch ;
CORNER EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
M<?ney Lent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards tQ
any ; ainopnt, repayable by instalments' extending
from 1 to 7 years, at current rates of interest.
The Company also grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
Mercantile or other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months ... fi per cent.
Six ~ ... 7
Twelve ~ ... 8 ”
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
renewal, 2 per cent. 6 months, U per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
A. MILLER Manager.
DIVIDEND of 10 per cent, per annum declared for the
last half-year is now duo, and payable to shareholders at
the Company’s Head Ollices or Branches.
Applications for Shares.—Forms of Application for the
Company’s new issue of 20,000 Shares at par, authorised by
the last general meeting of shareholders, can be obtained
upon application to any of the Branches as above.
-TUB-
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, IS7U
CAPITAL .. .. i. 200,000.
Sydney Ofllcc: 301 PITT STREET
AGENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
' v Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits:—3 years, 10 percent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
-THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING), AMALGAMATING),
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office; 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
Directors :
James Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney ;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
TIMIEISE WORKS have been erected at large
1 cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment} opens up a new field- to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
cojonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For fux-tlier Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
The British ami New South Wales Investment
an«l Financial t 0., limite«l.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 246 PITT STREET.
~|>ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
• ' Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Dcjiosits.’ —
3 Years 10 per cent.
12 Months .... 0 per cent.
6 Months 8 per cent.
3 Months .... .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
VV. M‘DONALD, Manager.
Business Announcements.'
-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established
•H .1.
1872.
Bonuses
o?
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
I g
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
koni George Thornton, M.L.A.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Sc King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
C-
ij
nco $ j\
□
nmonclS? 1
RON
.31
cTha^tsJ
rj ( lRpN^_ E 3
*
£
*
;
M. 1 I
nl b
■Bnajlnil
;r==i c=)
! ZJ
"uii
"'■ r
2*
naiu
ROBERTS & CO.,
~W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants* -
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Ofliee : 83 Gracechurcli Street, London, B.C,
IMPORTERS OF— '
Railway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers'
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF—
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders'
AGENTS FOE?
Korting’s Gas Engines The best and cheapest yet. made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock's Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridge?.
THE
“PLUM”
RAZOR.
h
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR,
VXTE have just received a further shipment of these celebrated Razors, and all Orders standing over
i* will be executed forthwith. We desire to thank those who have waited so patiently for this
shipment, and beg to say that we have made such arrangement as will prevent us running out of stock
in the future. Price—Single Razor, 10s. Gd.; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 &c 682 GEOBGE STIR-lEIET S YJDJSTE'Y'.
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO 4. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine lliivnunah rigors, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ ITor do Itnulto
Brand of Cigars and " Ijnplrr 4iß«relte«.”
DAN. SULLIVAN
(Laic of Brisbane Cftfd),
Has bought MATTE RSON’S HOTEL, opposite
Lassetter’s, George-street.
Extensive alterations and improvements just
OOBipleted. Recollect DAN’S OLD REPUTA-
TION for the best brands in the market.
DAN. SULLIVAN
Has a nice cold collation with salad, between one
and two o’clock everyday.
Medical.
PUL VERM A CHER’S WORLS<
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CUBE OP
Nervous Exhaustion and Sciatica;
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,’
HAVE received Testimonials from Threh
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
1 the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including oyer Forty of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet _ “Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Feeb.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <3c SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-Street West, Melbourne.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
1 Hospital Physician aftcl Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers hcnV they may
cure themselvesof Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,’
&c., &c., without con's,lilting a medical mad.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Bo’x 766, Sydney.
mr, A BLRSSfNG. fX EVERY FAMIIV.
HOLLOW Y’ S AFfD QINI'MENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes m grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers'. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. JEST’ Pur-
chasers should 109 k to the, Label on the Bhxes and Pots’.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, Loudon, they arh
spurious.
Business Announcements'.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Holler Iflour and grain Stored,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W,
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition.
1888-89.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE R£ CT,
study economy
° and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfikld Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool <V, Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturersof all kinds ofTinsfor Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery,
-A. Trial SolicltecJ.
MUSICAL.
T)ATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning; the
x Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, 6s. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade,
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
EMPIRE BUILDINGS,
Collins Street West, MELBOURNE
(Near Scott’s Hotel).
WE beg to inform our Friends and the
Public that w« have Opened these
Grand Premises as an
OYSTER SALOON
AND
Continental Dining Rooms.
PRIVATE DINNERS provided on Shortest Notice.
- Modbratr Charoks—
)
Bllffl & KATZ,
PROPRIETORS.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
ffl
3T
' 1 i JEUREK A
ELECTRIC I
m
BELT
ir
Vv'N
: \
Nr
IV
m v >
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness eaused by indiscretion. Bains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any aadress on receipt of a 2d stamp fox
postage. •*
Address:— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, Q. P. O., Sydney.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.8.C.P., M. 8.0.5., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN—
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston & Elizabeth Sts ),
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are fbee ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation,
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases —price,
3s. Gd. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery,
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak ej'es, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
f The Public are requested to notice the
Wd U. LIU 11 ! words, Rose's Celebrated Eye
Lotion,'With the Trade Mark (a Hose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion conmosed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor, $
H. A. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTIIAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
JJ ERV O U S DEBILITY.
Consult FRKK, PERSONALLY, OP RT POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mijssen’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. (id. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address
Herr Rass-Musscn, “Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional moans, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary, organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERRE,
{Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Du. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST A ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation:
9to 11 a.m, ; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S YDNB IT.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
U °
Beecham’s Pills
CH A
0
v
%
PATENT
n
PILLS
v»
<*;
*
4$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling' after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minute?. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and «ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. fid. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
Moore & Hogg
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases cffthe Gen I to-Urinary organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
2, CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Street! , Brisbane.
OOI.8ULTATION8 FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sentonreceipt of 2d. stamp.
Hotels.
rt Li
n 2
en s
00*°
feEiim
m|Bowo[NS|p.vo7^p«ff
iitiL
pyay
BOWDEN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hut ter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C. BOH DEN « » Proprietor
WESTERN HOTEL,
Warrnainbool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
ootnforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkirv’s
River, which affords tlie finest Ron and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Pishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied, itar Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
{y Livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Ooi’s Coaches. Thos,
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE
Proprietor.
Business Announcements
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
React ! Read ! jE&oslsX. I
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Oayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price One SlxiXl±xi.S
Per post, Is. 3d.
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne : Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide; Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
“ For Framing a Picture Heat and Well.”
•x ; x
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-St., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c„ carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut Avith real gold edges,
-pecial attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
I KJ i X. .
04 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
N, E. GIBLIN, Manager
“THE BULLETIN’S ”
Wholesale Agents :
a
I:
* d.
MANUFACTURERS
& IMPORTERS OF
flUlwi I - * « * ■ -*
r~ =v= ~ b
438 CEORCE ST
3YDNEY %
fffiposiCe LaasrtCers
Vi
„ #
\pys>
Branch :
0 78 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S VD tsl EY
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
>: v
■
I
ESHS
h
m
M&SsSS
Business Announcements,
T
HE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
ANT) TI)B
New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The JHarvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We Were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over- 6(100 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £200 to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia;
3E3C. t. & oo.,
494 Kent Street South. SYDNEY;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A. ; Argent Street, Broken Hill ;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
Send for Price List and Circular!
ADinUTIC
‘NO TENSION” SEWING MACHINE.
NOISELESS-LIGHTEST RUNNING.
Most Beautiful and Durable Work,
AND DOES NOT INJURE HEALTH.
ALSO FOR
Beehives and Supplies, Incubators and Brooders,
Patent Extending Trellis, Stoves for Wood, Coal,
Gas or Oil, Mangles and Washing Machines,
Carpet Sweepers, Preserving Jars, Ice Chests and
Refrigerators, American Egg Cases with Portable
Eillers.
HEBBLEWHITE <Sc CO.
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention this paper.]
-THE-
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE GO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OP
Stearine and Paraffin Candies,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
lees's Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
LIMITED.
Factory and Oflice: 11* Casllercagli Street,
(Late 245)
SYD1TEY.
W.
New Style of Tree.
The Company hi now prepared to manufacture all kind*
of Saddles. Price £3 and upwards. Any infringement ot
the Patent will be prosecuted. No Saddle genuine with-
out our Trade Mark.
• ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary.
PAPER-HANGINGS,
OiisC&loursa Paints;
WALL scroll
PA'
529 George BathurstSt
y -—T Brickfield Hill .
WALTER HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
/ received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest W holesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, PITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
I‘miners in the street.
j>R,] N C E O P WAL E S’ HOT EL,
. near Opera House, Bourke-st., East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting IToneo is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situ ted.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Kc<lucc<l from ;>Us. 4« 21s.
2i9 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any oilier leather.
• -x
They are noted all over London;
Birmingham and Liverpool.
LondLon 3?' J a.slibLioKa3,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MASON BSOTHESS,
>0
■
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STEEET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Envers Only,
Ironmongery, siml
GENERAL HARDWARE
Clnss, China ami
EARTHEN W A R E.
IE TEES, BEERS <fc SPIRITS',
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER ami SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MKL V I N ASn SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
E». B. 11A.RKIBJ.
0
IMPORTER OF
V V IHES, x SIP I ZR. IT S 7 x BBEBS, x |]TG.,
George and Oipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES: - '
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (f> to 10 years okl); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennessv’s, Kartell’s and Bazerao’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
__ '^J ie th°i CCi< t and Oldest SCOTCH IT //[SKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
1C ioi t and Sherry AV ines and Champagnes., All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
T/lTnlrsalß tfStTSingle Bottle Departments, anti VS&- €fenitge»st!,
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST. "
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ - REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
■GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sous.)
1- X (
1 reduce Stores, Gdpps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE: G-IPPS STHEET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
h
.
mm
KTEW
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
Tor!: Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as'well as the Trade.
• "•>*<
10,000 Bedsteads,
From 103. 6d. to £35.
aivlt
-c
45c~S:
, s
pMKJ
.
trstscB
MSK : 3 ja
Pi::
’/•Ijcnift
uT'OOOR^'aleS’d
AUCTIONEERS* ESTATE AGENTS
Wtauuw
BAILEE & CO.,
339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Free Freacriptiona
Are to be found in the “Laglil ami tale,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
70 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
COCOA
F. C. NICHOXaIaS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners k Pastrycooks,
City Buildings;
730 George Stree-fc, 738
HA YMAEKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
THONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged tlio Best Hotel on .the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites. First ('lass Sample dooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONS - - Late of New Zealand.
msio.. SMI *2° El,
MEDICAL EXPERT •
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS;
Nos. 7 Si 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Imferial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
V
&
tow
H
C\
i
OR
IR.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Bauiness,
strengthens the Hair and produces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
A pure, non gritty Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE 4.™..
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. ,Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
TAMGYES, LIMITED,
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 h.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
emimi pumps,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Xiatlies.
DRILLING MMHIES,
&o.
(ytijitCefahijiu
WINDING ENGINES,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
HM-MIGL ENGINES.
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
MiMuhlar Boilers,
tORMgII icon,Cits.
&a, &o.
We invite all those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we arc generally able to (rive immedinte deliwpw
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms, ■ y
129, 131,
X 3 3
&
135
HAY
STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDISTBY.
