

Aak your
Grocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint o the beat Ale or Porter. ' Lancet.
•hT=5
m
/■:
, 3:
EH
z.
m.
iiHnr
TSr= %
X ±
/;==■
m
if
i
■YORK STREET. SYDNEY.N.B- :Vf.
The most popular Skating Resort in Australia.
i * v i
11
GRAND SUCCESS! Patronised by the Elite of Sydney and Suburbs. GRAND SUCCESS!
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating Surface ; Cool, Clean, and pronounced by all—Perfection. The first cf its kind and
positively the best in Australia. Facts not Fiction ! which is demonstrated by the multitudes that patronise this Emk.
Is Lighted by Variegated Coloured Incandescent ELECTRIC LIGHTS, provided byjthe
well-known Firm, G. K. KIRKLAND & Gu., 65 York.street, Sydney.
the BEST LIGHTED PLACE OF AMUSEMENT IN AUSTRALIA
The HCHDSHY
Is the best constructed, most centrally
located in one of the principal thorough-
fares of the city. Convenient access to
all Trams, ’Buses, Ferries, Only One
Minute’s Walk from G.P.O.
Look Out for the
COMING ATTRACTIONS !
FIB ST'OL ASS—STAFF —OF
Competent and Gentlemanly Instructors
Always in Attendance,
Homing, Afternoon and Evening Sessions.
m
m.
1
IS
ROLLER
A Limited Number op
Season Tickets for Sale
NOTE.—Any Attractions advertised tc
take place at this Academy will he carried
out to the letter.
it win be the Constant Aim of the
Management to Study the Comfort anc
Enjoyment of Visitors.
g Proper Decorum will be Enforced.
Grand —Band—op—Music,
Superintended by Mr. George Vassie,
Afternoon and Evening.
Special !-Ladies’ Evening every Wednesday.
25,000 PAIRS of tho Best-Assorted SKATES FOR SALE, from the Largest Factories In the World.
HOURS AND PRICEH SAME AS USUAL
A. F. BMITH, Champion Skater ot the World - - - MANAGER
■MS
m
The
rr
i
□it
INVENTOR and Sole Agent for Australia,
C.P.S.A., YOBK STKEET, (
Between KING and MARKET
STREETS,
)
f
-
*
wmk
■
The Bulletin


CO
TO BA
II
m
HSii
ii
i
m
mm
ii
DIXSOPSONS
0
*
o
33
X
■■■ ■
SIR ROGER
ovyw
o
V-
H
DSXSONS
Excelsior hotel, charters
towers.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Churcb Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
HUNGARIAN s
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For Constipation, Indigestion
Stomach & Liver Complaints ▼
Am
ALL
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
Y
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.— For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYB. —An excellent Table WatWL
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S CELEBRATED
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Streng h > nd
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
.A-TKixivrsoisr’s
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
Trade Mark— “White Hose’ ’ on “Golden
Lyre,” vrith Address in full.
TXT" 3.11 xsleq. «« Csurg-ill,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 —MARKET- —STREET,
SYDNEY.
M‘J EAN BROS. BIGG, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY
Ml
IRCHANTf*,
512 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
m
;u
*
ser
SP,EOIAI.rTIES :
javit Sewing Machine , Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
JAS COOKING STOVES j—LEONIS ELBTOHBB’S, JEANS & WALKER'S
'BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES. *O., &0.
WILLIAMS’
irauw tbisi pone
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
Bread, Tea Cakes, Pastry, &c.,
ARE
LIGHT, WHOLESOME!, and DIGESTIBLE
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian least Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
BEWARE OF
Worthless Imitations.
Sold is Tins at Si. the Half-Pound.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Tear ending Year ending Tear ending Year ending
Oct., 1885. Oot., 1886. Oct., 1887. Oct., 1888.
£180,425 .. £350,000 „ £431,125 .. £580,000
61,630 .. 120,000 _ 206,685 .. 251,015
93,581 ... 261,500 _ 391,366 .. 1,123,940
123,248 .. 247,840 „ 307,828 .. 625,826
200,106 .. 451,085 .. 797,990 .. 2,048.051
Deposits received at following Ratesl2 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up and Accrued Capital
Deposits Received
Advances Made
Total Income
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
EVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
this BRAND H offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
UiflE FUBDS f° r Borrowers. TERES LIBERAL.
' VI:::; 1 '
pi n fclv .it*',
iiiP ',i fiiyj
m mm
HI
VX'i LX .
'ill
mm
—
H □£
111 i I I! InHiiMai
m&i
■ I
mm
i
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
£JAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of Is. pe
Share Entrance Eee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in Cash.
The holders of t *e First Issue of these Shares received in October,
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed only
£l4 65., at the rat e of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Hon. JOHN vm TO, H.P., J.P., _ Chairman.
WILLIAM DOHGKTI Acting-Secretary.
'I
■JC
I
i I .1 ](' li t >1 ; s' |.J| : -I ? ; i ' .
• : ii»ii ■■■
i ; f; i, = ; cV;
ililiPiffi
J : .yssi»gs^lfta* ' V■ j!!! t 1 J|ini|l l 4 t i :!_■; > .
. ; i: ;M ' v 1!
i> •" '£*£&?:{ 1 - "S* •¥•
THE
Federal coffee Palace,
CORNER OB'
ISZlxig' <35 Collins Streets, llelToo-arne,
Containing 560 ROOMS, Is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL "■ GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Mmri, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMS.
: HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
George Cohen - * - - - Ha nag®* 1 *


The Bulletin
VoUO—No 480
SATURDAY, APRIL 27, 1889.
Price, 6d
_jIL%V
Bent (not broken).


The Bulletin
The Monal Australian Newspaper,
“ AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS.”
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STRKET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALKS.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ...
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclbod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ice
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every iceek
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
'7^e^^xilZelzQ r L
SATURDAY, APBIL 27, 1889.
The Horrors of Christianity.
A few months ago the Hoang-hc—the most
shifting and treacherous of all Chinese rivers
—suddenly burst Ils artificial embankments
and rolled the huge volume cf Its turbid,
yellow flood across the adjacent plains,
carrying terror and destruction over the
mysterious land where the tea-plant grows.
The disaster was one which has happened a
score of times since the Hoang-ho first Issued
from the interior and ponred its waters down
towards the eastern sea, and It Is one which
will recnr periodically until the great river Is
obliterated from the map. The Sin Fat of
the prtsantday, like the duplicate Sin Fat
who owned a patch of earth on the great
plain in the days of Augustus, was slumber-
ing in his quiet, lopsided home when the
awful Instant of annihilation arrived, and
the billows rolled In a tide twenty feet deep
over his dwelling and bis little allotment,
and bore blm and his family and bis house-
hold Joss away on its bosom, while their
souls departed to the land where Confucius
dwells among the stars. His neighbour,
Hang-Ye, awoke upon his tea-chest to realise
that Death was at his door. The summons
came alike to Sing-Ling In his gin-case, and
to the opulent Ki-Nan in his palace of
frantic architecture ami impossible design,
and each of them remembered, possibly, as
the sound of the rushing torrent reached his
ears that a thousand years ago another
Hang-Ye, slumbering on a tea-chest of a
pattern that never varied since the days of
the Pharaohs, and another opulent Ki-
Nan, lounging in a palace that was as frantic
In Its architecture as that of his successor,
had heard the same ominous warning, and
had in like manner, vanished for ever from
the land of their fathers. It was a stupen-
dous tragedy, and It famished a brilliant
subject for the poet who sings In unmanage-
able gridiron characters In the Flowery
Land, but the million or two of lives
which were sacrificed in that awfnl
visitation left no perceptible gap among
the teeming millions of the Middle Kingdom.
The waters subsided at last, and the culti-
vators who had escaped the general devasta-
tion ventured down again from their places
of refuge to dig out their own farms and
silently annex those of their drowned com-
patriots ; the rice-plant and the tea-sbrub
started afresh ; the Hoang-ho found itself a
new bed ; and except for a thick stratum of
rich alluvial deposit, a threatered fsmlui
among the agriculturists whose farms —
mostly cadged from the dead Sin Fats
whose remains are still tossing restlessly in
the Guff of Pe-che-le—have not had time to
produce new crops, and who have been
farther ruined by the expense cf buying new
Josses to replace the ones which floated
away in the general ruin, and a thick, muddy
stream of Christian charity and maudlin ex-
hoitatlon, the overflow of the Hoang-ho is a
matter of history.
* • *
For cf Christian charity—as Christian
tShari-y is understood by the muddled
chirohes who send tracts to the Frozm
Zone, and forks and hope to the misshapen
Fueglan in hfs land of fire, and bools and
the Shorter Catechism to the Digger Indian
in his is unhappily no end. The
British savage cf Whitechapel maintains a
miserable existence on garbage and offal; the
sewicg woman of London tries In vain to
believe in the doctrine of Eternal Justice,
of peace on earth and goodwill to men, as
she rehearses daily the pitiable Song of
the Shirt—the saddest story ever told in
verse ; the grinder of Sheffield makes some
10s. per week at a murderous trade whose
very breath is destruction, but these and
all others of their kind may live and toll and
die and go to destruction in their own way,
so long as there remains one far-away Catib
who has not heard the touching narrative of
Balaam and his Ass, or one forgotten
Fantce who is yet a stranger to the joyous
story of how Goliath used to be eleven
feet high in Gath. The tollers who die
frcm hunger almost dally in London keep
on dying while London sends its surplus
wealth to rebuild the water-logged Joss-
house of the strange idolater beside the
Hoang-ho; the hunger-maddened women
who throw themselves Into the Thames, and
have the misfortune to be fished out alive,
are sternly admonished and duly sent to gaol
by the same tender-hearted Christians who
are weeping tears of misery over the
anguished Hong Lee, who hasn’t any rice ;
and in general the men of faith go on accord-
ing to the good old rale which bids them
leave their own countrymen to perish at
their doors while they pour forth the stream
of their pious generosity upon the woes of
the remotest heathen at the other end of
this badly-tired planet. All sorts and con-
ditions of greedy and corpulent salats take a
hand in the gcoi work. The sweater who
giinds out human lives—the lives of help-
less, weary, joyless girls and stunted boys,
and worn-out prematurely-aged women—in
his suffocating workrooms at a remuneration
of four or five shillings per week, contributes
his mite to the washed-out Chow ; the pious
warehouseman, who discharges the miserable
shirt maker at elevenpence a day because he
has found another victim who will accept
tenpence, sends his prayers and his cheque
to aid the opium-soaked contortionist of
Eistern Atia ; the Anglican parson, whose
wretched curate enjoys a lavish stipend cf
10s. per week, lends his aid to the cause of
charity, and the rack-renting landlord and a
hundred other cormorants bring up the rear
of the great procession. For the glory of
Christian England shines forth in her mis-
sionary enterprise, and her band is for ever
open to aid the distressed heathen and to
dispel the moral darkness of the neglected
cannibal, and half the uncivilised earth is
holy ground because there the martyrs of
Britain’s churches have shed their blood for
the propagation of the faith, and meanwhile
concerning three millions of starving Britons
at home no prominent philanthropist cares a
solitary curse, and no chnrch has time to
worry worth a cent.
* * *
The missionary system is English—strik-
ingly English—ln all Its details, and being
Euglish Australia has naturally adopted It
with acclamation. The Chinaman, It 1s true,
wears no poetic aspect in this country, for
the Australian has seen him too closely to
appreciate his beauties, but the swamped-
out Mongol beside the Hoang-ho is a distant
heathen —with whom we have nothing to do
—in distress, and thus he fulfils all the re-
quisite conditions as an object of public
charity. Consequently the benevolent fogies
and lavish dotards of Melbourne have taken
up his case, and subscriptions are pouring in
for the aid of the afflicted Sin Fat, who Is
understood to be sadly shovelling the frogs
out of his half-drowned home in a far-off
land. Whether the money will ever reach
him no one knows. As a rule, money sub-
scribed In such cases Is mostly absorbed by
the salaries of the hired philanthropists into
whose hands It passes, and by the time
it has been sifted through treasurers and
secretaries, foreign agents, mandarins, inter-
preters, missionaries, native teachers, save!
Chinamen, and benevolent officials of various
grades the amount that 1s likely to remain
for any foundered Buddhist beside the
Hoang-ho will hardly be worth notice. Even
supposing, however, that none of the ab-
sorbent Christians, who are accustomed to live
upon public benevolence and snuffls, annex
a fraction of the national charity, the utmost
amount that can be raised will hardly suffice
to furnish one square meal apiece to the
pagan millions who are supposed to be left
destitute In Asia. Ihe total would, in-
deed, do much to ease the miseries of the
hundreds of starving, tattered, and weary
Australians whose only home is the damp
grass of the Melbourne cr Sydney parks,
and who, even in the most prosperous
of Australia’s cides, are slowly dying
of want and privation; but these out-
casts are only white men of our own
race and our own creed, and because they
are not aliens and lepers, and because they
are close at hand instead of being located in
some misty region on the uttermost confines
of geography where a European is hailed as
a “ foreign devil ” and is liable to be stoned
on sight, their sufferings must find their own
remedy. The philanthropists of Australia
are too busily occupied with the miseries of
Sin Fat to spare time for any smaller and
less absorbing considerations.
• O •
Besides, tha Melbourne cltfzjn who is
dying of hunger in a land of plenty has
Institutions of the Charity Organisation
Society to appeal to. The money which
these bodies receives in charity is mostly
absorbed, it is true, in thesalaries of
their officials, but still they do much
service in various ways. The hungry vagrant
who applies for a meal Is told by a
highly-paid functionary to call to-morrow, or
the day after, or some tima in the central
part of next week, when possibly something
will be done for him ; and then, supposing
he should hold out so long, ha generally
learns that owing to his non-attendance at
church, or to the fact that he has been In
gaol for having no visible means of support,
or because his wife drinks, or his brother has
committed bigamy he Is not a fit subject for
human assistance. Most of the money which
is left after paying the salaries of the
benefactors in charge is employed in col-
lecting evidence to show that the particular
applicant in question Is not sufficiently apos-
tolic for charitable recognition, and, funds
for enquiry purposes being plentiful, it
naturally follows that only a saintly pauper
here and there manages to present a suffici-
ently stainless record to satisfy tha bowelless
committee of investigation. The indigent
white citizen being thus provided for public
charity is left free to expend Itself in re-
lieving the woes of the Asiatic pagan, and if
in his case there Is no elaborate machinery
provided for sifting the morals of each In-
solvent Chinaman—if the b snevolent Christian
population of Australia 1s invited to extend
a helping hand alike to the unhanged
murderer, tha fan-tan sharp, the Mongolian
sneak-thief, and the opium-fiend, without
raising any question as to their fitness for
such benevolence it is only necessary to point
oat that missionary enterprise has always
been built that way.
• * *
The gruesome snuffle of tha British mis-
sionary system—now in process of transplan-
tation to Australia, the lying and hypocrisy
which attach to it at every step, the cold,
callous brutality which forms its one un-
changing feature, the Ignorance and drivel
on which the boss Pharisees of the
propaganda have built what they blas-
phemously term the greatest Christian move-
ment of the age, are a living disgrace to tha
Anglo-Saxon race. Within the last three or
fonr years hundreds of thousands of ponnds
have been spent In sending forth fat apostles
through Western Asia with the result that a
solitary Moslem has shaken off the fetters of
the faith which forbade him to touch In-
toxicating liquors, and has become a Chris-
tian and a sot, and thousands upon thou-
sands more have been expended on missions
to the Hebrew race, from which not one con-
vert has resulted. And as a branch of the
same movement money has been poured
forth like water to buy food for starving
Hindoos, and distressed Syrians, and bogged
Chinamen, and broken-down Africans—
and meanwhile the only mission that
goes forth to Whitechapel consists of
“Jack the Ripper, 1 ’ the policeman
and the coroner, the only gospel that Is
carried to Ireland is borne by the police
baton and the soldier’s bayonet, a British
garrison In Egypt Is exacting taxes by means
of native agents armed with the raw hide
whip from a nation which Is as hungry and
as bitterly oppressed as all the aggregated
Chinamen who have ever been washed oat
since the days when the Great Wall was
first constructed, another British army ig
turning Burmah into a desert, and still
Britain leads the way In missionary enter-
prise, and acta as the pioneer of the Gospel
in the dark places of the earth. There are
more British subjects starving In the United
Kingdom to-day than there are beside the
Hoang-ho; there are probably as many
starving men and women in Australia in
proportion to the population of the country
as there are In the whole Chinese Empire ;
but the miserable hypocrisy of the day merely
bids them starve and trust ii Providence
and apply to the Charity Organisation
Society, or else it hires wealthy parsons to
read them elaborate sermons about the joys
ol poverty and the wickedness of having f jcd
and shelter, and reserves its practical Chris-
tianity for the opium-sodden leper—the
hereditary enemy cf our country and our
race.
* * *
Australia is, comparatively speaking, a
land of comfort. It is an nndylng disgrace
to her social and political system that there
should exist within her borders even one
white citizen who is without a home and
without food, and it is a sign of the future
damnation of those who run the great organ
of piety in the land that while there is not
only one, bub hundreds and thousands of
hungry toilers among the population, the
stream of public charity should be diverted
from them to the distant Chinaman, whose
own Government has already taken far more
effectual meats to relieve his distresses than
the rnlera of Australia have adopted for the
aid of their own countrymen. When want
and misery have been extinguished In this
continent, when the millions of our poverty-
stricken brethren in Eagland, Scotland, and
Ireland have been rescued from indigence ;
when the starving Egyptians and Bnrmese
who have been ruined by the blessings
of British government have been re-
lieved, when the Arabs of the Soudan whose
homes our amateur Australian butchers
were sent out to barn and plunder have been
compensated for the wrong which we did
them —then it may possibly be time to lend
a helping hand to the Mongol of the Hoang
ho. But it is needless to say that the
Mongol will never return the kindness thus
shown him. In Australia’s day of national
disaster no Buddhist of Pekin will subscribe
his taels for our assistance, and when China
feels herself strong enough to settle inter-
national difficulties with the sword the men
to whom the pretended Christians cf Aus-
tralia now tender their assistance will help
to swell the invading army that the heathen
emperor’s junks will carry to our shores.
But Australian Christianity rises superior to
any considerations of brotherly humanity or
common sense. The blind cripples who
haunt the streets of Sydney and Melbourne
imploring alms are moved on by the police ;
the old broken-down pioneers who have
given up the battle of life in despair are
kicked and cuffed and starved in our so-
called benevolent asylums ; the outcasts who
camp in the public parks are either left there
or are clubbed by the police and tun in and
sentenced to hard labour and short rations
for the crime of being poor and homelees ;
and the penniless victims of accident or
disease die unattended in a hovel or a police-
cell because there is no room for them In the
overcrowded hospitals of this Christian land;
but still there Is pity and sympathy for the
drowned-out Chow, and he who glveth to
the Chinaman lendeth to the Board.
Drunk or Sober?“—Can Figures Lie?
Pastor Jefpbris, in having a fling'at his Sydney
congregation, cannot) resist the temptation of
throwing stones at the New South Wales grog-
trade, Drunkenness, he states, is one of the
country’s pet sins. But Chief Justice Darlkt,
who ought also to be an authority, vehemently
asserts that the people who pay him are sober and
decent, and a law-abiding lot of citizens. Per-
ceiving that the habitual and extensive drunkenness
with which the clergyman debits the “colonists’
scarcely dove-tails with the reputation which they
are accorded by the Judge, the Sydney Morning
Herald proceeds to arbitrate, and in delivering
judgment assails the parson with a volley of
statistics, and a crippled sort of three-cornered
duel ensues between the trio of authorities, not on
of whom appears to know very much about his
subject. The journal labours under the disad-
vantage of being too ‘ 1 respectable,” and the orbit in
which it moves is as far apart from that of the
ordinary “drunk ” as Greek philosophy is from the
Polar bear. The Chief Justice meets drunken-
ness chiefly in Its higher branches, and does not
mix with the ordinary plain inebriate who is only
seen at his best in tue police-court. Doctor
Jkfpebis may or may not be posted. He may be
right. Probably he is. But he does not figure
very prominently as a Satan-wrestler in that
monarch’s stronghold ; bis forte is more “ i*ms
thin coalhfavers, neither is he known as a man
who dawdles late at nights at the Club. On the


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA. Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite Custom House).
London Bankers :
AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK.
2 King William Street, London, E.O.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations In addition to all usual banking
business.
Interest on Deposits s
3 years 8J per cent
12 Months S „
V 8. RICHARDSON i* Managing Director
ntrary he bosses a big, high-toned congregation
in one of the biggest churches in Sydney, and as
fliicb a congregation is seldom obtrusively ‘ tight
she chances are that the reverend pastor is dealing
rriostly in second-hand evidence. Moreover,
linuors and liquor-sellers have been a sore subject
r? the Doctor ever since the Criterion Theatre
pfioured a liquor-license, and his judgment is
always liable to be warped by the bar next door.
* • •
Aa a solid proof of the sobriety of the Cornstalk
race the Herald quotes largely from the Report
nf the Comptroller of Prisons for 1887, to show
that the increase in crime in New South Wales
is not proportionate to the increase in popula-
tion and having driven in this fact, it goes on to
sav that “for the ten years which we have use das
1 basis of calculation the arrests for drunkennhs s
in New South Wales were 2G 7 to tvary 10,000 of
the population; in Victoria, 13 7; in Queensland,
15 8 • in South Australia, 15 2 ; in Tasmania, 13 9;
and inNew Zealand, 14 9.” “This,’ the Herald
states, “looks very serious” and afeer laying down
in print the burden of this solemn comment, the
writer continues; “Of the four largest colonies
the record of consumption of intoxicating drink in
New South Wales is the smallest. Victoria leads
with 3 80 gallons per head (total equivalent ia
alcohol); Queensland follows with 3 39; South
Australia with 3 32 ; and New South Wales stands
at the bottom of the list with 3-23,” And in con-
sequence of this latter fact a sober, half-pound
journal of reputed sanity rises to state that “ It
must appear that the greater the consumption of
liquor the greater liability there is to drunkenness.
New South Wales drinks *57 gallons per head less
than Victoria, and yet her arrests are just double
those of her neighbour.” It admits that this is
surprising, and we fully acknowledge the justice
of the conclusion. If one man has only half as
much money as another man it is reasonable to
assume that the other man has more ready coin
than the person who hasn’t so much, and when
statistics prove the contrary, it is time to inquire
if the figures are not lying. Bat the jumble gets
worse as the tale proceeds. “ It is somewhat re-
markable,” wails the moral organ of Congrega-
tionalism, “that the convictions after trial in New
South Wales since 1876 are at the rate of 12 30 per
10 000 of population, while those of Victoria are
at the rate of 4'50 ” Yes, it is indeed remarkable.
Anyone would suppose a blind man capable of
seeing that there must be a terrible looseness
about the statistics—that if the Court _ records
were correct as to arrests and convictions for
drunkenness there must be something or oked
about the Drink figures. But no. What does it
show, asks the Hebald gravely, “ but a careful
administration of the law in this colony ?” Which
is equivalent to declaring that Judges are so cor-
rupt in Victoria, so high-minded in New Pouth
Wales, juries so stupid in Victoria, so intelligent
in New South Wales, lawyers so dense and ignor-
ant in the one colony, so sharp and brilliant in the
other, that this paper discrepancy of figures is
accounted for by a more careful administra-
tion ot the law ; that is to say that
men who pound their wives to a jelly, pro-
cure abortion on their sweethearts, kill one
aiother in drunken brawls, rob banks, and play
the devil generally, get off scot free in Victoria,
where in New South Wales they would reap the
extreme penalty of the law ? Yet, accor^ia fi to
the Herald’s own lucid exposition as shown
above, falling back once more on its beloved
statistics, the people of New South Wales are the
drunkenest race in Australasia. “No,” says the
Herald in effect again, “that can’t be ; doa’o
statistics prove that not only do they drink •57
gallons per head less than in Victoria, but thai
they drink less than any other colony in the Aus-
tralasian group?” Now, what in thunder do they
do, or what are they anyway ? Are the Corn-
stalks drunk or sober ? Is the Doctor right afaer
all, and the Judge and the Herald wrong, or is
the Judge right and the Doctor wrong, and the
Herald too utterly mixed to know where it is ?
* « »
The whole problem undeniably hinges cn the
correctness or otherwise cf the published statistic)
relating to the drink-trade of New South Wales.
The figures relating to convictions and arrests are
of necessity approximately correct. There’s no
trickery in keeping tally of court records. These
show unmistakably that the arrests for drunken-
ness in New South Wales during a spice of 10
years are just double the record of Victoria. Con-
sequently, the excessive inebriety of the mother
colony must be taken as beyond ali hope of dis-
proof. Yet by the figures relating to liquor con-
sumption the inhabitants of Botany Bay are
behind all the other colonies of Australasia in
point of aggregate national thirst. Therefore,
they either get drunk without liquor, or the esti-
mates of liquor consumed are not woroh the paper
they are written on. And this latter is the true
explanation.
* * *
We repeat that the statistics relating to liquor
consumption in New South Wales are horribly,
glaringly false. In theory, no doubt, the records
of the Custom House are as reliable as those of the
Police Court, bub the former takes no cognisance,
and cm take no cognisance, of the vast quantity
of alcohol which never passed through ihe Cus-
toms at all, nor paid duty in any shape. The
Polios Court cannot sort out the prisoner who got
drunk on illicit whisky from the other prisoner
who made a beast of himself on the legitimate
article, bub the fact remains that all the strong
drink accountsd for in New South Wales
would not suffice to make drunk half tha
men who regularly arrive at that blissful
condition. The balance must be supplied
somehow. Taking Victoria, for argument’s
sake, does any sane man, judging from the
evidence of his own eyes, dare to say that they
drink less per head in Victoria than in New South
Wales ? Yet these amazing statistics would have
us believe they did. Isn’t it a patent fact that
New South Wales drinks in reality nearly twice
as much as the sister colony ? How much would
it take to bring up the average consumption, not
to what it is on paper, but to what it is in fact ?
We do not hesitate to say that, at the very lowest
estimate, we safely tack on to the visible annual
consumption, concerning which the Hebald is so
jubilant, a further invisible amount of 100,000
gallons, and be then far within the mark. Is this a
bagatelle? Is it not what even the Herald
would call “remarkably eerious ” ? “But,” say
some, “ this is impossible ; no such quantities could
be secretly produced without sure detection.”
Yet the limit of illicit distillation can only be
measured by the demand for illicit spirit. How
many stills are there that can turn out
1000, 2000, and even 3000 gallons each a year ?
How many smaller that all contribute their
hundreds, all running into thousands ? Then
where are they? Everywhere, Is it going a
whit beyond the truth if we acknowledge the
possible presence of twenty or thirty ? Would it
be “ stretching it ” to say that there are fifty
(about a dozen were raided in as many days not
so many months ago) ? Would it be a gross lie to
say there were probably a hundred scattered
throughout the country —large, small, and medium?
How many are there, we wonder, in Sydney and
its suburbs alone at this very moment? Will
any ore be bold enough to deny authoritatively
that there are not half a score at least ? If so,
what becomes of the repeated assertion of those
who ought to know, who possibly do know, who
at any rate suffer in their honest trade to such an
appreciable extent that they would uncommonly
like to know that theirs was only an empty state-
ment, that they would stake their existence on
the presence of half that number right in the
centre of the New South Wales capital ? How
about thuse to whom large lines of spirits have
been offered “ on the quiet ” at a price shillings
below even the duty ? Pitt and George streets,
Sydney, were not strangers to stills so vsry long
ago. Are they strangers now, and, if to, how
about certain convenient side-streets and less
frequented alley-ways, perhaps not a hundred
miles off said Geortre and Pitt streets, and ov<r
which the measured tramp of the policeman on
duty sounds mockingly ?
* * *
“All moonshine !” Perhaps it is ; perhaps it is
not. Cases tried in the Sydney courts very
recently, and subsequent discoveries and partial
confessions, disclose at least a wholesale and
systematic fraud in the matter of forged labels,
corks, capsules, &c., branded with names that
have no more relationship to the contents of the
bottles than cold pork has to the extinct mammoth.
Were these isolated instances—a sort of haphazard
discovery—or was the exposure part and parcel of
similar and other results brought about by a
determined and systematic combination on the
part of honest spirit-merchants to protect them-
selves and their customers—the public ? Is it not
known that these frauds have been going on for
years, and even if temporarily checked in
one direction, is there any visible reason
to suppose that the real root of the evil
has been touched at all? The forged labels
are said to have came from Germany. Possibly
they did. If they did, there was no necessity to
send to that distance for them, nor for the capsules
either for that matter. They could be got much
nearer home. But at the hearing of these spiii*;-
fraud oases at the Court, the public was not
favoured with any information as to the origin of
the liquor underneath the forged labels and inside
the forged corks. From Germany too, perhaps?
Still we don’t think so. At any rate it also could
have been obtained nearer home. Freights have
ruled high lately, and if this cost could be saved
and the duty as well, why—all the bigger the
profit. And while on the subject we might men-
tion that it always did seem passing strange to us
that that prosy contribution to our State collec-
tion cf red-tape literature, the report of the Drink
Commission, which appeared at the end cf 1fc.87,
contains not a solitary line, not a hint in reference
to the question of Illicit Distillation. Bottles of
raw, vile-smelling, liver-scorching compounds they
procured and sampled by the thousand, but not a
hint as to their origin or suggestion as to remedy.
Why?
• * a
Why then is not all this stopped ? Why not,
indeed ? Why continue to allow the revenue to
be fleeced of anything, from £70,000 upwards, per
year, and the people to be maddened with poison
to which fusel oil, “straight,” is the drink of the
gods, and to which kerosene is nectar, while,
trade frauds apart, the effect on the life, moral
and physical, of a young nation is simply
damning? Where are the detectives? What
is the New South Wales Government doing? .All
that the Government is about is struggling in
their Foreign-trade fanaticism to raise revenue
without indirectly appearing to help along native
industries, and so to gain this end, and with the
vague idea that the bigger the duty, the bigger
must be the revenue, they have steadily piled up
the imposts till from 10s.—a duty under which
good spirits were obtainable—they have raised the
tax to the virtually prohibitive figure of 14s.
Consequently the Government itself is offering a
direct incentive to secret manufacturers of blue
ruin, while they are also cutting off the honest in-
crease of revenue that would flow from a moderate
and reasonable duty. Treasurers come and go,
and spirit duties increase and increase, and with
each increase the private distiller rubs his fat
hands together at the premium that is offered to
his secret industry. As to the police and detec-
tives, in plain English, the game isn’t worth the
candle. It doesn’t pay. No doubt if on officer
ran right amuck of a secluded little grog factory,
with still, casks, and worms, spirits, everything
right under his rose, he would unearth the whole
thing and run his man to earth at once. But
what with making out Electoral Bolls, collecting
dog-taxes, keeping a weather-eye on “unem-
ployed ’ tramps, and helpiag to pass lojal resolu-
tions at Jubilee outbursts, the suburban and rural
police force, never sufficiently strong at any time,
too few and scattered even to break up the gangs
of burglars that shift the portable property of
peaceful citizens, have their hands as full as they
can carry. The city police are overworked too,
liable at a minute’s notice to special day and night
duty for weeks at a stretch, as on the occasion when
ha’, f the Sydney force was melc-dramatically keeping
guard over the Chinamen in the Harbour, and they
too, have, even under ordinary circumstances, not
the time, if they have the special training and
ability, which is not always the case, to trace and
work up link by link, the perfect unbroken chain
of evidence needed to ensure a conviction.
Further, is it rumour, and nothing more, that sets
it down as a time-honoured tradition that the Ex-
cise officers are supposed to have the semi-exclusive
control and privilege of ferreting out and bring-
ing to book contraband offenders ? If so, might
not this account for the scarce-concealed friction
between these two branches of this department of
the service ? As for the detectives, supposing some
astute officer did enter upon the self-imposed task of
cautiously pushing a delicate enquiry, which
might last over months before he could wing his
bird—supposing after all he did manage to present
a strong case —what would be his fee and re-
ward for long days and sleepless nights of labour ?
If no conviction followed, nothing at all. If a
conviction, then one-thiid of the fine. Sty a sly-
grog-faotory man is caught for the first time and
levied upon (o the extent of £ICO, Of this the
detective would get a paltry £33 G?. B }. to divide
probably, with two or three others who had
assisted in the hunt. Truly a grand inducement.
No wonder the professional detective—unless a
little syndicate of merchants club together and
guarantee at least expense? —shrugs his shoulders
and mutters “ Cui bono!’’ Professional work
must be paid for, if required at all. Besides, the
temptations to be offered from the other side are
tremendous in comparison with the miserly in-
ducements held out by a Government that lets
slip thousands upon thousands in revenue to save
a beggarly hundred or two. There is hardly an
illicit distiller in New South Wales who would not
cheerfully plank down £lOO to £5OO to be left in
peace. It’s worth that to him. It should be
made worth as much to the officer or illicit dis-
tillation will go on till the day of Judgment,
The empty farce of angling for minnows and
letting the sharks go by is about played out, No
one gains anything by fixing up a chronic raid on
the poor wretch who flits from one shanty over
night to another the next, with his old, worn-out,
one-horse still on his back, and who brews at the
best only an odd gallon or so at a time. The half-
settler, half-smuggler, whose rusty worm on the
river banka away up the Hawkeabury dribbles
out in one week barely grist enough to poison
his old brain for the next four, the greasy
Ohiuaman back in the Parramatta bush—let
them have a rest. They are sinners, of
course, but yet they don’t amount to a hill
of beans. Theirs is, literally, only a drop in the
bucket. lo’a the big manufactories in the cities,
and the big merchants whom rumour credits with
being sleeping partners in the concerns—this is
the sort of game that is wanted, and wanted very
badly. That such conceins do exist the New
South Wales Police Courts conclusively prove. A
whole colony cannot reasonably be sober on paper
and drunk in fact. The drunkenness is proved,
and if the grog bill is concealed it must be found.
The one method by which illicit distillation can
be wiped out is a reduction in the duty sufficient
to make the secret still comparatively profitless.
The higher the impost the larger are the profits of
illicit distillation, and the more numerous are the
manufacturers of illegal fusel-oil and other un-
authorised poisons. Neither Pastor Jepfekis’
fulmications nor the upside-down logic of the
Herald can do anything to check the evil. In
fact, no great public evil was ever checked by such
feeble means. The moral law planted on top of a
cyclone could hardly be more powerless than the
lay sermon of tangled platitudes which the daily
press is accustomsd to pub forward as a means for
the moral regeneration of a nation that has for
ten years been on the burst.
Rats!
According to the Sydney Morning Herald’s
telegrams, the Brisbane master printers have wen
the day and the compositors are ready to accept
almost any terms their employers choose to offer.
The H erald s correspondent has doubtless outrun
the facts and things are not yet quite so settled as
he pretends. Still there is no doubt that com-
positors have turned up in Brisbane in greater
numbers than was thought possible, and the em-
ployers are so far encouraged to hope that they
may presently succeed in their great aim of
breaking the power of the Typographical Associa-
tion. They have received this encouragement
from Sydney compositors who have not hesitated
for the sake of present employment to break with
the New South Wales Typographical Association
and to help to defeat and ruin that of Queensland.
These misguided men do not see that they are aid-
ing the employers of Brisbane to lower their wages
and leave them presently helpless. Grant that
work is slack in Sydney, where indeed there is so
little that competent and steady compositors have
been driven to spade and shovel labour at Shea’s
Creek, yet the ruin of the Queensland Typographi-
cal Association can only make it worse. For
if the society compositors cannot get work in
Brisbane they can only come here to increase the
competition and endanger the New South Wales
Association by emboldening employers to try the
Brisbane game, Queensland is already overrun
with unfortunate lads who have learned to pick
up type in little country newspaper offices, who
have served no apprenticeship, are not acquainted
with the finer branches of their own trade, and
are contequently compelled to accept whatever
wages are offered them. The apprenticed com-
positor, member of the trade society, is by these
half-taught hands already greatly handicapped.
What will he be now that a contingent of Sydney
men have ratted and gone to stab their brother
workmen in the back ? Melbourne happily has
sent no recruits to the Brisbane employers’ aid,
and in this matter, as in many others, Sydney
shows a bad second to the Southern city.
• *
Retribution follows this class of action very
quickly. Presently some printer, anxious to in-
crease his trade by underselling his competitors,
will insist on lowering wages to enable him so to
do. All other master printers must needs follow
suit at once or be ruined, and thus a whole trade
is lowered in the scale of comfort, and
brought a degree nearer to that point
at which employers aimed with scarcely an excep-
tion, until trades unions forced them to mend
their ways. That point was the “ccst of existence”
basis for wages. “It tikes so much bread or
potatoes or oatmerl to keep a man alive —give him
just that much for wages and let him starve his
stomach wlenever be wants rags to cover him.”
It is not yet fifty years since this was the actual
theory upon which employers founded their cal-
culations when they considered the price of labour.
There are plenty of men walking about in Austra-
lian cities still capable of doing a good day’s work
who remember when five shillings a day was top
wages in any handicraft trade, and in many trades
four shillings and sixpenca was the most a work-
man might look to gain. In the early days of
Australia, and in many of her later ones toe,
excepting when peculiar circumstances caused a
special demand for artisans, men had to keep
their families on these pittances, and it is only by
the action of the trades unions that they have
been raised. It is a short sighted and foolish
policy to turn against a union just bc.cruse trade
is slack. Will work be made more plentiful by
cheating the workman of his due ? Rather should
workmen stand shoulder to shoulder in slack
times, and jealously guard every loophole whereat
their rights may b,e infringed. In busy times the
Association can take care of itself. In slack times
every man should look devotedly after the Asso-
ciation.
• * •
That the New South Wales Typographical
Union fs not entirely free from blame fop the
ratting of a few men must be freely admitted.
They failed to recognise that unemployed printers
who refrained from taking work at Brisbane were
entitled to a money provision from the union, a-id
that they erred, and know they erred in this is
shown by the decision cf a mass meeting of society
printers held in Sydney on Saturday night, ai
which it was decided to make a provision for these
unemployed craftsmen. A fault admitted, how-
ever, is half condoned, and The Bulletin warmly
appreciates the spirit in which the decision of the
meeting was arrived at.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Jefferis that Haunts Us.
It is unnecessary, as a general rule, for secular
papers to concern themselves with the discourses
which clerics deliver in favour of the several creeds
which they make it their business to promulgate.
The clerics are merely in their shops when so dis-
coursing, and the public who don’t want the goods
are not compelled to go in, and are not called upon
to stand around and criticise the quality of the
wares on whose merits the shopkeepers or their
employ 03 expatiate. But when a discourse thus
delivered is with the cleric'a sanction, or, as often
is the case, by his request, substantially trans-
ferred to the columns of a secular newspaper,
alongside police-court intelligence about bigamies,
divorces, and prize-fights, it becomes matter for
general comment, and if the sentiments conveyed
in it be false in fact or false in fancy, it is a public
duty to reprobate and condemn them. This is
the position of matters with respect to the Rev.
Dr. Jeffebis’ late discourse in Sydney’s chief Con-
gregational Church on the subject of "Pantheism.”
The lecture was substantially transferred to the
columns of the S. M. Herald, and those who
know the lecturer are aware that newspaper pub-
licity for his utterances is with him a consuming
desire. Dr. Jbffeeis, then, proposed in his
lecture to compare Christianity with Pantheism.
Taking the report of his discourse as being fairly
correct, it will be found on reflection that he
treated Pantheism badly and Christianity worse.
First, in respect to Pantheism. Pantheism, act
cording to Dr. J efferis, is an announcement that
there ii no sin, and, therefore, no forgiveness.
Now, whence hasthe dootorevolved that idea ?Is it
from Haegel, is it from Comte, is it from Emer-
son ? He has read some of the writings of these
three men, and how has he evaded seeing that the
first of these intis is on man discharging his duties,
fulfilling his obligations, and acting up to the
highest measure of his lights? How has he
evaded seeing that the last of these burned
with apostolic fervour to exalt truth as
a virtue and kill falsehood as a vice ? Comte,
the rev. doctor does not seem to have under-
stood at all. We don’t mind Dr. Jefferis’ out-
line of the doctrine of Pantheism, although it is a
miserable caricature, but when he charges it with
the crime of knowing no difference between virtue
and sin we ask his readers and hearers to go else-
where than to the Congregational Church in Pitt-
street for truth. What is best in Carlyle, what
is best in Tennyson, in Lamartine, in Victor
Hugo, and others of the literary immortals, has
been born in the Pantheistic conception, and has
flowered in the Pantheistic apprehension of the
Universe as it rolls in light and shade. But Chris-
tianity fared worse at the doctor’s hands. Chris-
tians, he asserted, are satisfied with nothing short
of “ personal immortality.” What is personal
immortality ? He quoted the phrase about the
resurrection of the body, but he is so vulnerable in
that quarter that we don’t care to attack him.
The words “personal immortality” we take to
signify a condition after death in which the
human being will be, whatever about a body
spiritually and mentally, the individual he has
been in this life. Now, then, will nothing shojrt
of this satisfy Christians? Is it not among Chris-
tians taken as a pose ability, a probability, a cer-
tainty that a large proportion of the race will be
damned ? Is it not accepted as a thing that may
be expected that the mother in Heaven will see
the daughter in Hell, the daughter see the mother
there, and the husband see the wife there ? The
logic of dogma is that those in Heaven will be
supremely happy, and will live in perpetual
delight—with the tortures of the damned for
ever before them. Hera, then, we have Dr.
Jefferis’ ideal husband gloating over the agonies
of bis wife, the mother over those of her daughter,
and the daughter over those of her mother ! Let
Dr. Jbffeeis hold, if he likes, that such will be
the future of the race, but let him not say that
the minds which accapt such a future are the
minds that now throb with affection and kin-
dle with sympathy at the spectacle of pain, If
there be “personal immorality” the eternal torture
of those near and dear must darken brows in
Heaven. It is humanly impossible to conceive
otherwise. Had Dr. Jefferis indicated that the
process of beatification would structurally alter
the human mind he would haya left a way open
for a species of immortality. This should be
enough for Christians who maintain both Holland
Heaven. By insisting on a “personal immor-
tality ” he works up for himself a problem which
neither he nor anyone who believes with him can
straightly face.
*
A Tough Job.
Who could it have been that set the saintly J. B.
Patterson to work to decide whether the novels
of Zola and George Moore “are fit for public
circulation?’ Tne new Victorian Commissioner
of Customs is hardly the man to have evolved
such an idea out of his inner consciousness. He
is noi called upon to say whether they are
“nasty,” “ obscene,” or “immoral.” That would
be an easy task, for they are often all three.
Bat he is to say whether they are “ fit ”
fo: circulation in a community which re-
gards the Bible and Shakespejee as king-
pins of British literature. What a time he
will have, to be sure! If he once begins to “ Bow-
dlerise” or emasculate imported literature he will
have very little opportunity to make himself
obnoxious to a Cabinet in which he is none too
welcome. If Zola’s description of the slop-
pails and dirty petticoats in ballet girls’ dressing-
rooms are nasty, assuredly the maxims which
M;ose3 or some other man lays down in the Book
of Leviticus are not very nice. If the incoherent
improprieties of the “ Mummer’s Wife ” ar,e
too hot for Victorian palates how are those
pious people to put up with Troilus and Ores-
sida, Titus Andronicus and Pericles, while
Quida can give them all fits, and put more
pruriency into one page than any three writers
living or dead ? Can it be possible that the wily
and proper Duncan Gillies, a modern Joseph to
all men’s view, has found this job for a too too
active colleague ?It may be so. A countryman
of the gentle Duncan, one Michael Scott, in
ages gone by was granted by Beelzebub the ser-
vices cf an imp on condition that the servant was
kept continuously employed. But the party from
Sheol worked so nimbly that this became impos-
sible until SppTT set him to work making thumb-
ropes of sand, an unending task on which he is
still engaged. J, B Patterson is in for a task i f
like nature, and can take little part in politics
until he gives it up. Probably Duncan, the
smarty, depends on the perseverance of J.8.P.,
and chuckles to think how nicely he has dished
the beloved of Oastlemaine.


Ben franklin printing office
AND TTfIU
MERCANTILE STATIONER V WAREHOUSE.
W. l*f. IHAI'IARDV.
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic anc
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embower, Bookd >
Account Rook Manufacturer, Ac., ® O,
Maclardy's £5 Box of Stationery a speciality-
Send for List of Contents.
Note Address—
-819 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
N.B.— Now opening a Larpe Assortment of Xmas ft
and Fancy Goods. Inspection invitee.
One Diunk—Twelve Months 1
The old blind Goddess of Justice has again fallen
into the gutter in New South Wales
Tam worth, Friday.—During the 'hearing of the con-
spiracy case this morning against Henry Jeffries and
Francis Roach, two witnesses appeared suffering from the
effects of intoxicating drink, and, being unable to give
evidence, Mr. Justice Windeyer committed them for con-
tempt of court; and sentenced one named William
Burkett to 12 months’ imprisonment, and the other
(William Denton) to six months. These were two impor-
tant witnesses, on whose evidence the Crown relied for
conviction, and, consequently, the prosecution broke
down, and the prisoners were acquitted.
Twelve months —without even the formality of a
trial —for being drunk, is another brilliant evi-
dence of the glorious uncertainty of that code
whose leaden foot comes down so promiscuously in
Australia. The average price of an ordinary
drunk in this country is two and-six, or there-
abouts, with the alternative of three days at the
outside; the price of a dmnk in the pre-
sence of Judge Windeyer is 120 times
that period of imprisonment with no alter-
native at all. Fcr a sum not exceedirg 10 1. a
man may he drunk in the presence of both Houses
of Parliament; if he is a member he may be howl-
ing mad in the Assembly itself for nothing, and
he may be reasonably tight before the Governors
of all the Australasian colonies at a very low
figure, but to be off bis mental balance (in the
presence of Judge Windeyer) in a Criminal Cour 4
is an offence which sets the whole mighty engine
of the law in motion with a crash. Possibly the
two offenders in the present instance had no idea
that they were in Mr. Windeyek’s august society;
they were mo it likely too drunk to know that they
were committing an act of contempt, and though
they were, of course, more or less responsible for
the ordinary half crown offenca which they had
perpelra'ed outside, the rest of the crime was
perpetrated for them and without their con-
sent. Having got drunk in tte adjacent hotel,
where they were not committing any act of con-
tempt, hub merely exercising the privilege which is
accorded to every Australian on payment of a
small fee at the police-court, they would gladly
have stayed there and continued to get drunker ;
only being summoned to enter the court and give
evidence they obeyed the call and went blindly to
their ruin. Consequently, their offence was—not
that they got drnnk, for Judge Winekyee and
legal vessels of similar tonnage are not kept to
deal with anything so ordinary as the common in-
capable—but that being already drunk they came
into court when they were ordered to do so. If
they had declined to come into com ton the ground
that they were tco drunk to ornament that sacred
chamber they would, by so doing, have perpetrated
an act of contempt and anything short of instant
hanging would have baen at once ordered to meet
their case; therefore, they appeared with their
two-and-aixpenny sin on their heads, and the
consequences were about as serious as if they had
been tried for manslaughter and found guilty.
Either, therefore, the sentence was imposed in a
blind fret zy of badly-damaged dignity, or it was
given on the assumption that every man is bound
under tremendous penalties to be found sober the
instant he is wanted to teslPy in a New South
Wales law court Under the latter circum-
stances, if Mr. Windeyer had wanted to call a
witness to explain how the other two wit-
nesses had lost their sobriety, and the
other witness had been found peacefully and
harmlessly intoxicated in his own house, and had
been hauled into court in that blighted condition,
he would also have teen liable to 12 months’ im-
prisonment for appearing where he didn’t want
to appear while under the influence of his own
private beer. The sentence evidently was mea-
sured not by the magnitude of the offence but by
the size of the indignation expeiienced by an
irascible one-horse court whose judicial calm was
badly hurt. The dignity of the law, in its boiling
wratb, did not even, as a matter of common
justice, postpone the sentence until the criminals
were sufficiently sober to be heard in their own
defence. Whether they were really drunk in the
ordinary acceptation of Ihe term, or whether —as
seems much more probable—they had been adroitly
drugged by the friends of the prisoners against
whom they were to bear evidence ; whether, sup-
posing they were drunk, they had got drunk on
their own account or had been systematically
liquored-up by somebody who had an end in view,
the court apparently did not wait to ascertain.
It was too howling mad for any such small con-
siderations, and the offenders simply woke up to
find themselves sentenced to six and twelve
months’ respectively. Why one received half a
year and the other twice as much it is and fficult to
explain seeing that ko)h were sufficiently drunk
to be unfit to give evidence, and any additional
muddlement was merely a personal adornment of
the original offence with which the Court had
nothing to do, but so far as appears from the
report the man who received 12 months was the
person who was first struck by the club of
authority, and the other was more fortunate be-
cause the law, by the time it reached him, was
beginning to feel better. But, however the ulti-
mate result was arrived at, it serves to prove for
the hundredth time that two things which badly
want abolishing in New South Wales are the law
of contempt and its able administrator, Mr. Jus-
tice Windeyer The system by which one iras-
cible lawyer with a tremendous idea of his own
dignity is allowed to act as judge, jury, Crown
Prosecutor, and witnesses in his own case is an
unspeakable insult to justice and human intelli-
gence, and the existence of a judge who is capable
of using this brutal authority as it was used in the
present case is a stain upon the judicial system of
New South Wales.
A t ho'iiixed Innd-.lub.
Acoobdino bo the Free trade leaders in New South
Wales no Protectionist can possibly belong to the
Land Nationalisation party. It will be interesting,
therefore, to see in detail what the L»nd National*-
sation party think of the New South Wales Free-
traders’ last move, which is no other than a revival
of the scheme, scotched last year, for giving to
the freeholders who own the corners of the new
Post Office-street in Sydney, the frontages of that
most valuable thoroughfare, together with the
comfortable bonus of £120,000 for accepting them.
Last year Sir Henry Paekes proposed to pay the
owners of certain property in Pitt-street and
George-street £120,000 for six or seven feet of land
at each end of the street, which is positively
unique in value in itself, and to give them also
the right of frontage to this new street, which is
honestly worth £2OOO per foot A syndicate was
instantly formed to buy the rights of a leaseholder
who held one of the corners, for £60,000, and a very
good bargain the syndicate made since no other
position in Australia is equal in hard business
value to that which they would have acquired-
The Opposition, which for f nee was too strong fer
Sir Henry Pabkes, claimed that the Government
of New South Wales should exercise its right of
resumption of land for a certain distance along
George-street and Pitt-street, paying the fair
market value to be assessed by experienced
arbitrators, and should then sell the extraordin-
arily valuable frontages to the new street it bad
created. As the Government already own the
central portion of the new street this plan would
have put them into possession of upwards of four
hundred feet of frontage at the outlav of seme
sixty or saventy thousand pounds. The New
South Wales Assembly declined to accept the
plan of Sir Henry Pabkes, but he on bis side
flatly refused to obey the wish of the majority.
“He would not be a party,” he said, “to any land-
speculation”—although he himself has done vtry
well cut of land—his M‘Namara speculation to
wit. The matter remained in statu quo for a
time but now it is being agitated once more and
there is no doubt that the public property is in
danger. The syndicate were credited with a
powerful friend in the last Assembly and it is
alleged that it has a cordial ally in the present
Cabinet, though it is only fair to say that the
gentleman whose name is mentioned is not be-
lieved to be pecuniarily interested in the matter.
If a valuable public property like this is to be
given away at all it really matters very little who
has it, but with what face can the Freetrade pirty
claim to have any sympathy whatever with the
fast growing cause of Land Nationalisation whs n
they can coolly propose to denationalise by far the
most important pieca of land for its size that any
Austra’ian Government is ever likely to handle?
A Change of Tune.
A few weeks ago, during the New South Wales
general election, the Sydney Daily Telegraph,
Evening News, and other papers tried to blast the
Protectionist cause by stating and insinuating
everything which could possibly make the va t
mass cf ignorants among the electors believe that
Protectionism was a Jesuitical conspiracy headed
by the Pope’s agents. Now, finding (as tie
Evening News has done in connection with its
“Ominous Silence ” article) that it doesn’t always
pay to take a cowardly advantage at a critical
time of a political party less opulent and lees
numerously represented in the Press than its own,
the Daily 'Teikgraph tries to sneak back
into the toleration cf the Irish and their sjm-
pathisers by publishing a very transparent lead-
ing article encomiastic of the Irish dele-
gation to Australia headed by Mr. Dillon.
The Daily Telegraph is a Tory japer in that
history shows its policy to be invariably foutded
on the principle that whatever is is best. It is a
paper which always cheers for the uppermost dog.
It supported Protection until it thought that Pro-
tection had keen killed in New South Wales, and
then it became an organ of shoddy ; it bolstered
up the Soudan brigandage idea with all its might
until the bubble burst, and then it went right-
about face and started a quick march ; it tang the
praises of “whiffs of grape’’ as applied to the
irreverent Australian Nationalists of Jubilee time;
and now it makes itself hoarse by shouting for
the Young Kangaroo; and it has been among
the most relentless of ihe opponents of the
Irish national ounce, in that it prejudged
the men who have fought the battle of
Irish home rule and human liberty. It was
quite as unjust to the Irish Nationalists
as even the Times has been, inasmuch as it
sentenced them without the semblance cf a trial
and vociferously applauded the actions of those
who gagged the condamnis and who beat the
drums to drown their protests while they were
being marched off to the political scaffold. Here
is a sample of the weapons employed by the
Telegraph in its leadirg articles against the
Redmonds :
If Mr. Redmond thinks he is contingent to these colonies
to stir up strife ami rebellion he v ill find that his mission
will prove a miserable failure. Queen Victoria has no
more loyal subjects in any part of her dominion than in
the Australian colonies.—2o h Feb., 1883.
The attention of the head cf the Government was last
night directed to the proposed lecture of Mr. J. E.
Redound to t»kc place tkij ive-ing in ad Of the Irsh
National League, an offshoot of that organisati'n out of
whose funds the assassins of Lord Cavendish and Mr. Burke
were paid for their bloody dec's
Of th > atrocious character of the League there can be
little doubt ...... But we do know that he
(Redmond) comes ti us as the a - owed repreeen'ative of
a traitorous and seditious body .... The people of
this country have no sympathy with the murderous
movements of Mr. Redmond's Irish associates, and if he
would eave himself from being drummed out of the city
as a rogue and a fool he must ehow to the satisfaction of
the public that he was in no way concerned in the inner
workings of that society of which he was so prominent an
advocate. If, however, he should continue to collect
funds for the League in the free of the exposure that has
taken place, he not only condones the murders that have
been committed, but gives ihe strongest j radical proof
of his sympathy with the cut-throat policy cf his col-
leagues. . . The Freema'ons of Sydney, we are glad
to learn, have refused to allow their lull to be used for
the promulgation of sedition —22od Feb., 1883.
Mr. Redmond . . . and his brutal following . . .
It is evident that Mr. Redmond is regarded In his true
light as a public enemy, a disturberof the peace, a breeder
Of strife and fiction, and a dangerous advocate of rebel-
lion, if not of actual bloodshed. Ilia sooner we are rid of
Euoh men as this the better. . . . There is law, order,
and decency on the one side—the riff-raff on the other.—
7oh Match, 1883.
" Law, order and decency— riff raff.” History re-
peats itself, for are not these the very ex-
pressions used by the Telegraph only a
year ago in dealing with those very Aus-
tralian Nationalists whom it now finds so
numerous and so worthy of patronage! In
short, the Daily Telegraph, like the Evening
News and the Melbourne Age (we speak of the
Age of to day, not of the Age of 15 years is
a newspaper which swims with the tide and is run
purely as a commercial concern. It is a newspap, r
which is all the more dangerous to the democracy
by reason of the fact that it is the first to mouth
the derm ccatic war cries after the battle has been
fought and won But what is the use, a reader
may fay, of raking up these dead-and gone matters
of five years ago ? The Bulletin’s answer is that
it has not until now been possible to fully convict
the Telegraph out cf its own month. The Tele-
ora ph’s laudation of Dillon is a tardy confession
of the outrages It committed upon Redmond. In
the interests of common honesty, neither news-
papers nor politicians must be allowed to calmly
and benevolently patronise successful movements
of which they have bean the enthusiastic enemies.
There is a solicitor in Queensland who is legal
adviser to the Sand gate Municipal Council and to
the local branch of the Salvation Army. The
Council attempted lately to suppress the Army as
a public nuisance, so the solicitor appeared in
court with his authorities in support of the Army
in one pocket and those in support of the Council
in the other. The dual duty was well performed.
The Bench canoe to a cor elusion with as much
ease as if the advocates were sworn enemies or
professional rivals. To some the performance
savours of immorality. But legal pleadings, like
debating school opinions, ara outside the scope of
moral influence. The man who is ready to sell
advocacy to either side before he knows the merits
of a dispute is nob a moral agent. He
is a tool, fharp or blunt as the case may
be, and whatever interest attaches to the
exercise of bis avocation as an item of news, none
attaches to it on the ground cf moral significance.
At a meeting recently held in St. James Hall,
London, in reference to the housing of the poor,
Lord Compton, utterly unmindful o! the fate
which befel the late Mr. and Mrs. Ananias,
said: —
“ During the late election for Holborn a gentleman who
had lately returned from Australia said that he had been
to see for himself the lodging-houses in a district where
dreadful crimes bad taken place, and that in Australia the
owners of such property would be ssntenced to at least
two years’ bard labour. He wiihid the authorities had
such power in London.
If the Australian owners cf such shanties were
poor men they would probably have half-a dozen
flaggings thrown in as well; but it Lord Compton
and bis gentleman friend will call in their carriage
at Thu Bulletin office we will take them to lazrr
holes in the city of Sydney equal in the way of
filth and misery bo anything that can be shown in
the vilest purlieus of London, and so far from the
owners of them being punished they are grovelled
to and reckoned amongst the most respectable and
God fearing persons in the land. Australia ought
to be quite a model country for truthfulness soon.
All the liars seem to be going to England to
lecture.
The Grit curses about the centralising policy of
New South Wales
At one time the country constituencies were at least to
be reckoned upon in any great question of national in-
terest, but the enormous voting power which the suburban
electorates have secured of late yea’s has practically
given Sydney the control cf the national policy. No
country can thrive under such conditions, and nothing
but a political earthquake that will burst up the existing
monopoly will ever be of any real benefit. If a man has
to prove a debt, it must be done in Sydney, rot where it
was contracted but hundreds of miles away, and, of course,
there is a fee ! If he sells land he most register the sale
in Sj dney and pay another fee. If be seiures a lien on a
crop or executes a bill of sale over goods six hundred
miles off on the Darling or the Mclntyre, he must register
t at in Sydney and pay the usual fee 1 The solicitor, the
banister, the hotel keeper, the auctioneer, the very
hawker w ith 53. worth of tapes ard thread; all must re-
mit to Sydney and register there. It is the commt rcial
maelstrom, and from its depths nothing comes ferih ex-
cept the dull platitudes of the Hbeald, and the army of
bummers and ag nts who go forth to glean the stray frag-
ments from the alnady well raked country districts.
By the time all the monarch® have gone
mad, then subjects will be sane enough to get
a!ong very we 1 ! without them.
It Is understoi and that the salary earned ly
the present Chief Justice Higinbotham, while a
member of the Victorian Legislature, still lies to
his credit in the Treasury.
Twenty thousand sword-bayonets were
recently made for the British army by a German
firm at Solingeu. Of these 6600 w ere tested and
one half proved worthless
The Chinese Fami' e Fund in Melbourne
is mounting up. It will soon reach one fiftieth
per cent of the sum which the. Emperor o! all the
Lepers reef ntly expended on the celebration ol his
marriage with a few hundred wives.
In the report of the Melbourne Commis-
sione. sas to the merits of the educational systems
of the Australias it is stated that “ In composition
South Australia holds the highest position.”
Composition with creditors, we presume.
The average Income of the Hindoo is
something under £2 per annum, and of that 63. is
deducted for taxation, under a political system
which combines the beauties of Freetrade, civilisa-
tion. bogus Christianity, and the blessed influences
of British government generally.
An Evening News reporter waited upon
Sir John Robertson to obtain his opinion of the
Brunker Land Bill, and over a column of the
News is the result. The report, however, cannot
be considered a faithful one, as not a single
Robertsonian adjective appears.
The proprietors of Sydney Evening News
have commenced to displace men-ocinpositors in
favour of anew type-setting machine, which is said
to, f be a wonder. By and by the daily papers will be
written by machines (with, let us hops, a patent
Lindley Murray attachment), and a 1 ttle later on
they will probably be owned by machines.
In replying to a Maori address last wetk
the new N Z Governor, Lord Onslow, said that
the Queen takes a greater interest in the welfare
of the Maori race than in that of almost any of
the great peoples over whom she rules.” That
Tub Bulletin may remark, is perhaps the reason
why Queen Victoria refused to grant an interview
of any kind to King Tawbiao when he visited
England. 1 oor old Tawhiao hung round Windsor
Castm for nearly a week without getting nearer
than half-a-mile to the front-door, and yet, at the
commencement of the week following Her
Gracious Majesty accorded a most affable personal
reception to a couple of niggers who had brought
her over some baboons as a present from King
John of Abyssinia. You see, there was something
to be got out of King John, whereas Tawhiao was
practically a broker.
" The richest blood sweetest breath, and fairest ildn in
Dr. Stale's American Hop Bitters."
Dlngman’a elccfcrio ao»p, a clemslng
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its .ppearatco in the Australian market.
It a ill cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of “elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case of caffimeree, woollens, flannels
muslin de lam s, and the finest fabrics. It re-
moves paint and grease stains from clothing with
very little labour ; indeed, if it will perform half
what is claimed to be within range of its powers
its introduction into our households will be quite
a startling domestic revolution.
Sundry Shows.
Theatbk Royal — 1 Sinbadthe Sailor ” . ... p. 14
Her Majesty’s. —" Romany Rye ”
Criterion —“ Sweet Lavender " "
Gaiety Theatre,— Cogill Brothers 1
School oe Arts —“ Pinafore ” ’ ”
Phillip Park —Fain’s Fireworks ”
The Oyclobama.—The Battle of Gettys- ”
burg f
To the large, plodding rural person with
earth behind his ear, who lumbers heavily over
the vegetable mould, a good many of the finer
points of “Sweet Lavender ” are likely to prove
incomprehensible, but the galvanic drunkenness of
Richard Phenyl, barrister-at-law, is a feature of
the new Criterion comedy which appeals to the
meanest understanding in a land where mean un-
derstandings are the rule rather than the excep-
tion, and consequently there is good reason to
anticipate a success for Mr. Pinero’s humble
effort. Richard Phenyl, as represented by Mr.
Frank Thornton, is of no more use as a barrister
than is a hen as an agercy for calculating a degree
of longitude, bat regarded as a small, shaggy
unkempt man with a head like the mournful pine-
tree, and the song of an orphan jackass in his
melancholy voice, who comes home at dawn stand-
ing on his bands in a fish-barrow, and falls head-
long over the moonbeam that shines through the
keyhole, he has few equals. The story which is
built up and upholstered round this gentleman
arises in great part through the fact that his uncle
dies and leaves him a fortune with which two
banking apostates abscond ; and on hearing this
fact Mr. Phenyl moves round confusedly on all
fours trying to grasp a telegram with his feet and
to ascertain whether two bankers have fled with
£40,000, or 40,000 bankers have eloped with £2 or
one banker has fled at the rate of 40,000 miles'an
hour with £l, or whether it is all a vision. But
when the third partner in the banking firm casts
off Mr. Phenyl as if he were a quantity cf stale
fish and a broken umbrella, and denounces
him as a besotted pauper, the barrister fires
himself unsteadily across the room, and holding
on to the shadows of sixteen missing chairs and
the vision of eleven absent sofas, he demands his
money, and the banker falls and becomes a shiver-
ing idi it in an arm-chair with a handful of his
torn-out hair entangled in his feet. Among the
secondary causes of his moral degradation is the
sudden arrival of the woman he jilted 18 years
before, and from this point to the end of the story
he is liable to become a putting, blowing driveller
every time she shows herself. Among the other
characters who plod over the ruins of the banker
are Lavender, engaged to be married to the
banker’s cast-off-son; Minnie, also engaged to,
but afterwards shunted by, the said eon, and
ultimately reduced to washing-up with her own
fair hands; and an unforeseen American disaster
of tremendous length, and so thin that his stomach
and backbone are interchangeable features. These
varied symptoms mix themselves up towards the
end. The banker grows a little less paralytic;
Mr. Phenyl gives up drink and doesn’t recover his
money, but remains in the same condition as
before, and is left there ; and the American, after
nearly being brained by a teaspoon, which is fired
at bis head from a top window, marries the re-
jected girl and leaves the banker gibbering moral
precepts in his chair.
• *
Lavender, played by Miss Frenda Gibstn,
is a nice girl who wouldn’t be seriously missed,
and may be sizid up as a middle-sized heroine of
moderate attractions and reatoaable youth, who
foes on much as could be expected. Mr. A. T.
lilton, banker, is wooden and gone in the knees
of his dramatic soul ; and the props upon
which the comedy relies are the indestruc-
tible Frank Thornton, whote barrister is a
lofty work of genius and calculated to create a
famine in a public-house, and the winsome Lilian
Gillmore, whose rejection by Mr. Cecil Ward in
order that he may transfer his affections to
Lavender, is a lasting reproach to his intelligence,
Mr. Frank Cates fights desperately »iah his
American accent in ilia background, and though
he is at times badly clawed in the encounter, he
occasionally comes out on top—and when he is on
top he presents remarkably good results. The
rest of the struggle is kept up by Miss Lucia Har-
wood and Mr. Charles Brown, the consequences in
both cases being satisfactory and worth the price
of admission to any solvent individual of Christian
origin.
** # #
Coglll, the son of Ham, has returned to
Sydney Gaiety, and to anyone who likes the op-
pressive African this can be safely recommended
as just the kind of oppressive African that is likely
to suit him. In our private c opacity we generally
heave Acts of the N S.W. Legislature out of our
office window at the musical Hottentot and the
songful old black Zulu serenader, but the Oogills
rise considerably above the ordinary standard of
the Soudanese warbler and the Ashantee on the
wild high B flat, and we swear at them a good
deal less than the average Ever since fcto event-
ful day when Noah rose shaking the remains of
the Djluge out of the brim of his hat, and sen-
tenced bis first-hern offspring to be accursed in
the regions where Stanley afterwards found
Livingstone, the African has been addicted to
inflicting the banjo on a suffering world, but the
artists at the Gaiety make that weapon less of an
infliction than the majority of their countrymen,
and if their feet are inhuman in their dimensions
and their smile is larger than an hospital, these
are only trivial drawbacks which the world can
afford to overlook in consideration of their general
excellence.
•* * «
Of “ Romany Rye, 1 ’ at Her Majesty’?, we
can only report with a sigh that it Is the same old
melodrama that first blossomed in the Australian
autumn six years ago The moral gipsy who was
busy recovering his ancestral estates in these day
is still recovering them, and the tired
djiun who had collared the property in l “
still collaring it. Without the tremendously 110
“squiah ” swearing in his hereditary stone tower
and drawing an income of £lO,OOO a y ear ]
drama wonld fall with a podgy sound like cold po


Arnovitift into a tomb ; and apart from this cynical
man-eater and contortionist the great requisite is
a sainted pauper stealing his moral course in a
hovel and eventually coming in for the whole pile
nf hoarded wealth. Round these simple facts a few
thrilling accessories can be built up—afire on board
a dredge, accompanied by homicide, mutilation,
hollow groans, and cannibalism, a moral constable
ftosassinated while di inking water at a pump; a
Withered hag IGOO years old whose 26 children
abducted in the confusion of the Norman
fonquest and can now only be recognised by the
mark of an axe which struck them on the spine in
thfl middle of the Heptarchy ; a coroner’s Inquest
on a small boy fished up out of a smellful river :
and an honourable man rescued out of gaol on a
leather dromedary while doing a sentence of 45
ears on his head with hard labour interrupted by
solitary confinement in chains and two floggings,
and to be hanged afterwards, and may the Lord
have mercy on his soul. Also there is room for a dog
ftn( j a tank if the stage is large enough, and if it
can be worked in there is also scope for a tangled
waste of empty sand covered with impenetrable
tropical vegetation and a solitary old man kan-
garoo outlined against the evening tky. In build-
ing up “ Romany Rye,” however, the author has
managed to strike a fair average of horrors and
improbabilities; and Mr George Rignold covers
a multitude of sins Jack Hearne, though al-
together too moral for this world, is one of Mr.
Rignold’s beat efforts, and Mr Jewett, as the
fearfully depraved squire in the marble halls,
fills up the other half of the picture with
considerable ability. Twenty four other ma’es
most of them more or less paupers—successfully
prove themselves too numerous to mention this
week; and among a dozen ladies Miss Watts-
phillips, Mrs. George Rignold, Mrs. Melville, and
Miss Marlbel Greenwood are distinctly beautiful
more or less—chiefly more. The tcanety bears
evident; a of a desperate effort to break the record
for magnificence, and the management have so
nearly tUoceeded that it isn t worth mentioning.
*# * *
“ Sinbad the Sailor,” a pantomime which
has been put on at Sydney Royal with a lavish-
ness that is calculated to break the treasury of an
empire, is a piece which must be considered slowly
before its full grandeur can be realised. Like
moat other pantomimes it hasn’t any sense; but
the gorgeousner s of its lunacy, its gilded insanity
and frescoed derangement, the noble magt ifiesnee
of its frantic idiocy, and the painted and varnished
splendour of its incomprehensibleness, combined
with the refulgence of its drivel, make it necos-
-Bary that it should be viewed slowly and with a
dispassionate eye before judgment is pronounced.
The cleverness which marks every line of
its able fatuousness, and the brightness which
characterises its brilliant congenital dementia
r , f] --cb the utmost credit on the intell gent
malformation of the cranium and water on the
head of the original author, and his efforts have
been energetically seconded by that old favourite,
Mr. E. W. Roycp, who adapted the piece and
fired into it the cd-ur of the local kangaroo, so to
speak, with great success. The background con-
sists of about eighteen scenes of great splendour,
and among the crowd of revellers who haunt these
fairy landscapes are the famous Royce himseP,
Miss Fanny Liddiard, who hasn’t yet begun to
grow old, two most gaudy comic men known as
John Gourlay and Harry Leston, Sophie Harris,
and Miss Edith Blande—a new arrival from the
beloved land where the Derby is run once a year.
We feel compelled to hold over this latter lady for
another week’s consideration, but the rest of the
crowd are above par, and a gang of Mephistophe-
lian revellers, comprising the Borani, the Wal-
halla, and the Matthew Brothers—three sets of
brothers, in fact—also deserve a mile of space to
themselves. But it is too soon yet to definitely
sort out anybody amid the riot of a pantomime,
which is as confused as sheol being burnt down
and all the fiends climbing out of the window.
Poetry to follow:
These lines are an effort on our part to be as con-
fused as an ordinary expensive pantomime, and as
a description of scenery we consider that they
contain some valuable hints for the men who con-
struct these eminent works of literature ard art.
Two men dead, seven more Injured, ten
thousand pounds lost by Brough and Boucioault,
thirty thousand pounds damage to the proprietor
of the theatre and twenty thousand to the Palace
Hotel. That is the sum total of the rum wrought
by the fire at the Melbourne Bijou theatre. What
would it have been had the fire broken out at half-
past 8 in the evening instead of half-past 4 in the
afternoon ? There would have been two thousand
people in the theatre, eight hundred and fifty of
them at least cooped up in a gallery, to which the
staircases were narrow and tortuous ; four or nve
hundred more would have been in the family
circle, one remove nearer the street but quite as
badly off for means of exit, and the remainder in
the dress-circle and stalls, with only one way out
for all, and that along a corridor, which would
have been filled by flames from the arcade
below. The story would have been sadder
than thoie of the thiatres at Nice and
Vienna. It is bad enough as it is, but
in view of the horrors which might have
attended the destruction of this death-trap, it is
quite a relief that only two people should be killed
where two thousand were continually in danger.
It is comparatively a trh ill price to pay provided
the danger is thus removed. There s the tup !
Will it be removed or will the theatre be rebuilt
at the end of a long lane with no other outlet . it
it be, then the authorities who permit its erection
will be guilty of all ev.l that may befall.
• •
The story i f the theatre la a sad one. Aider-
man Aarons, who bail a it, thought he had the world
in a sling when he indue ad Sir G »orge Bowen to lay
the foundation stone in April, 1876, He did not
know it, but he laid the foundation of his ruin, ine
building of the arcade and theatre exhausted nis
resources, and left him in debt to the Victorian
Permanent Building Society whose interests
were guarded by Mr. James Munro, MBA.
The end of it was that soon after the
opening Aarons found himself outside and
the Building Society obtained the whole pro-
perty for £31,000 or thereabouts. It was never
very fortunate until within the last three or four
years when the Triumverate first took Brough and
Boucicault there who afterwards leased it them-
selves. It was opened with a big nourish cf
trumpets, poor Di Mutaka singing at the inaugural
concert. It only outlives her by a few months,
and its end, like hers, was cremation. At half-
past four last Monday afternoon a housemaid in
the Palace Hotel, sitting in her pantry over the
dressc’rcle, smelled fire below her, and gave
an immediate alarm, ai did _ others who
discovered the outbreak almost simultaneously.
By five o’clock the theatre was in ruins and eight
men were buried under the walls. By six the fire
was under control and by seven it was subdued.
By midnight two of the injured had passed
to eternity and the others lay writ hing in agony
in the hospital. Two lives and £60,000 have been
sacrificed to the culpable indifference of the Oity
Fathers of Melbourne, who allowed a furnaci to be
built for the reception of humanity. Which will
be the next theatre to go and how will anyo. e get
out of it ?
“ The Yeoman of the Guard ” came to Melbourne
Princess’s last Saturday, with results darkly
hinted at in the above ballad. Not that the opera
dots not contain pretty lines, clever characters,
poetic fancies, and an occasional catching musical
number. Iss construction is harmonious and its
production gorgeous It will grow upon these,
perhaps, in an ancient historical sort of way. But
this *■ Yeoman of the Guard” is a mistake, in so
far that it demands from the performers such a
combination of excellence in singing and acting
that no available company can do it full justice.
Also, the plot is so weak and wire-drawn that the
necessary crowd of gifted beings would be too
strong for the job, even if they got on it. Miss
Ida Osborne fills the part of a Beefeater’s daughter
in good comedy style, and Mr. Howard Vernon,
cast for the congenial role of an Assistant Tor
mentor with a Death’s head, helps her on the way.
For the first time in her Gilbert-Sullivan experi-
ence, Mies Nellie S'ewart falls short of the heroine’s
requirements. The wandering minstrel girl,
who consents to enter the bonds of wedlock with
her eyes bandaged, in order that she may becjme
the widow of a headless colonel and enrich her
mother cut of the mutilated man’s real and
personal est ate —who then developes a burning pas-
sion for her escaped husband under the impression
that he is somebody else, thereby break ng the
heart of a professionalhumouristdressed like arain-
bow, and suddenly discoversthather love is already
sanctified by the church—a girl so situated can-
not be seriously represented by the.angelio prima
donna. The tenderness of the scene becomes
tough under her manipulation, for there Is no
more simple pathos in Nellie than in a new
bonnet. She secured an incidental encore by the
meretricious aid of an interpolated top note, but
her voice is, for the moment, rather worn and a
little flat. Mr. Ltumane is not much like a
colonel of the J7ch century, and a careless waddle
in his gait) is only a little less irritating than the
methodical roll in Mr. Marnock’s voice. Miss
Ametis, stated to be a contralto of European re-
nown, sings like a pair of perforated bellows and
the musical demands of this show are_ quite too
m*ny for the gifted Elton. His conception of the
jester Is killed ty the surroundings, and elicits to
sympathy. When he falls senseless at Mhs
Stewart’s little feet the catastrophe arouses
an uncomfortable suspicion that she would like to
kick his prostrate humanity out of the road. Un-
happily, too, the chorus has little to do except
stand around and look solemn, evidently troubled
in spirit as to whether “The Yeoman of the
Guard ” is a comic opera or a two act tragedy.
The thing is an artistic failure which most people
will pay to see.
* * # #
“ Betsy,” playtd by the same galaxy of
talent and beauty that recently boomed this
supernal slavey in Sydney, filled the Bijou
now in ashes !—to its uttermost on Satur-
day night. The audience rose and swelled
with joy at the return of Brough, Boucicault,
Titheradge, Mrs, Brough and Miss Pattie Brown.
* * * »
An Easter egg of fine, holiday flavour,
entitled “The Ruling Passion,” was broken at
Melbourne Royal in the presence of a crowd out-
numbering the hairs on a bald head. It is a drama
which begins with two sudden deaths, one of them
being due to unnatural causes, whilst the other is
brought about by the sticking of an ancient miser
who spends his last momenta in dropping bags
full of tin sovereigns upon the bloodstained floor.
This reene introduces Miss Kate Bishop in the
twin capacities of two sisters, one looking beauti-
ful in black and the other bobbing up next minute
in spotless white When she drops dead as one
sister her remain? are artfully c mcealed behind a
table-cloth, and before there is time to shudder
she appears at the window in a black bonnet like
an optical delusion in a conjuring entertainment.
Subsequently it turns out than the poor girl
passed away in the wrong capacity, so the villain
endeavours to rectify this error by taking her to a
lunatic asylum, where they dangle her at the end
of a crane and make her support existence through
a couple of iron rings. The villain still pursues
Miss Bishop after a sailor has rescued her from
the torture-chamber in mistake for the sister who
died under the table, and misfortunes gather
round Miss B. until she finds rest in a balloon,
which soars through a series c f superb tableaux,
and places the success of “ The Passion ’
beyond all human doubt- The drama is good of
its dreadful kind and so mounted that it ranks as
a work of art. Moreover, a good deal of capital
acting spicks the darned thing with something
resembling human interest. Mr. Bland Holt
perpetrates comic \illainy in the style which
custom does not stale, and his serious com-
rade in crime gets eirefuliy attended to by
Mr. Albert Norman The miser’s brief period of
existence enables Mr, Charles Holloway to make
a positive mark, also Messrs, B. N. Jones, Glover,
Walter Howe and others do something more or
less useful The delicious laugh and constant
naturakess of Mrs Bland Holt brighten the per-
formance with the brightness that seems part of
the winsome lady’s being. As for Miss Kate
Bishop, she has done nothing so entirely r ice and
uamechanioal since joining the company. This
sudden return to her best form is the most in-
terest’ng feature of a show which will yield a
hanin ms return.
# * * *
Furthermore, the Alexandra was crammed
1 ke a student seeking his degree on Saturday,
when Mr. Alfred Dampier len loose “ Shamus
O’Brien” for the first time in Melbourne. Tne
damp, boggy odour of the dear ould sol seems to
pervade this patriotic production in the usual
manner, and when an excited Irhh pisantry are
anxious to wipe out the hired informer who would
betray the noble rebel to his Saxon persecutors,
that miserable spalpeen takes shelter behind a
holy father, and the holy father uplifts his sacred
paw in accordance wish trish drama tradition. A
succession of situations dear to memory were sup-
ported by liberal scenery, and Mr. Dampier, in
two character?, was well playtd up to by his com-
pany, including the darkeyed damsel with a
slender waist who bears his honoured name.
* * * *
“Julius Caesar” maintains a great hold
upon the enlightened understanding at Melbourne
Opera House, each delivery of Marc Antony’s
oration growing more subtly powerful than the
one before. Bat on Saturday next Mr. Miln will
put “ Hamlet ” upon the stage with original
ghostly effects and a few fresh departures calcu-
lated to turn the very last vestige of the Shake-
spear a Society’s brain. Miss Louise Jordan, not
yet known to local audiences, is to wander through
the tragedy wearing wild flowers and a vacant
stare, this lady’s Ophelia having been elsewhere
associated with the Hamlet of her great fellow-
countryman, Edwin Booth.
# # * *
Frank Chrk’a new people, especially Good
Old Mary Ann, are making business brisk at the
Victoria Hall. St. George’s has unhappily been
engaged by Mesmerist Kennedy, and degraded
“ subjects,” genuine or bogus, play the fool, by
arrangement or otherwise, for the amusement of
such gaping innocents as can find joy in the
spectacle of a man eating an onion. Some of
Kennedy’s disciples cou;d eat a brick without
being mesmerised at all, and any t hat are mes-
merised ought to be rescued from the red-headed
professor by the Law.
• * # #
The company which supports Mr. Wybeit
Reeve at the Theatre Royal, Adelaide, has been
taking various means to more or less fill up a
week’s gap at that house prior to the appearance
of the new London artists in “The Silver lails.
The dusty old pile of dramas has been turned over
and ransacked, and “ The Txckct-of-Leave Man
was one of the ancient pieces which it was deter-
mined to revive. The other —shade of our moral
grandfather !—was that agony-stricken monstro-
sity “ E*sl Lynne,” for one night only! We bops
that one night will be the last. Comment on tne
horrors of this drama is needless. Hicks Minstrels
b*ke their blackness to Broken Hill, well satisfied
with the result of their sojourn in Adelaide.
* * ♦ •
Charles Templeton, a baritone who could,
at one time, warble “the Heart bowed down
with pleasing effect, has finished by catting his
throat at Geelong. When a man once gets into
Geelong he has no choice between cutting his
throat or taking the train to a livelier spot.
Templeton—poor soul! —hadn’t money to pay his
train-fare, so he adopted the other course.
* * * *
Tom Mead, an actor of the old English
school, who also happened to be a scholar and a
man of some culture, died the other day. Mead
was forced to waste the better part of his life in
playing blood and-thunder characters at un-
fashionable theatres, where the gods loved him
for his deep bass tones and encouraged him to
work down to the level of their intelligence. In
his middle age he was a ‘ 1 star ” at the old Eagle,
subsequently known as the Grecian Theatre, and
now the head “barracks” of Salvation Harmy
Booth. There he used to fight and co qaer with
such vigour that the cry of “Bravo! Mead be-
came historic. The boys would follow his
dramatic fortunes with such interest that when
he was engaged in broad-sword combats with
15 villains the theatre resounded with personal
warnings and exhortations, such as—- Mina
the cove in a cloak, Mead !” “ Look out for them
tvvo s coming up behind ! That s right,
Tom, let the s have it straight! and so forth.
At last he got an engagement to play the Ghost
to Irving’s first performance of “ Hamlet” at the
Lyceum, and took his proper position in the pro-
fession when already an old man. Mead re-
mained a member of the Lyceum company for
some years, scoring his greatest success as Le-
surques pere in “The Lyons Mail.” All who
remember him in that part will admit that a
more sterling artist never missed making a big
name.
*# * *
Sundry relics of the distinguished defunct
are just now to be seen on the stage of Melbourne
Opera House. Marc Antony carries a Roman
sword which was flourished at a past generation
by that uncertain genius, Gustavus Brooke, who
found his winding-sheet in the troubled waters.
The sword of Brutus has felt the tragic clutch of
Kemble—great John Kemble, the awful creature
who used to roll his eyes heavenwards for six
hours before he start* dto play Hamlet. Octavius
Ctesar is sanctified by a tunic from the wardrobe
of William Hoskics, and the crafty carcase of
Cassius is encompassed by a baldrick worn at old
Sadler’s Wells by Samuel Phelps—the noblest
Roman of them all. It is also reported, upon un-
reliable authority, that a subordinate member of
the classic mob (rets excited in a pair of Bill
Holloway’s cast-off boots,
#* * ♦
Charles Pond, a reciter of some note In
London, has been giving the public Adam Lindsey
Gordon’s “ A Voice from the Bush ” (written, not
by Gordon, but by Mowbray Morris)-, which, tha
papers say, was received with warm applause by a
fashionable .critical audience.
*# # #
Irving la making a profit of £5OO per
week out of the performance of “Macbeth” at
the Lyceum Theatre, London.
#* # #
A London evening paper has jnat pub-
lished the following interesting facts about the
size of actresses’ waists :—Ellen Terry, 28 inches ;
Mary Anderson, 2G inches ; Mrs. Bernard Beere,
27 inches (no stays); Dorothy Dene, 24 inches ;
Miss Rorke, 23 inches; Kate Vaughan, 21^inches
(the smallest).
** * *
Billy Emerson haa dinged ” the minstrel
business, pro tempore, afid is travelling with a
dramatic company as low comedian,
** * *
A simple, Innocent-looking corn-plaster,
found on a ladv’s couoh, was an important
“exhibit” in the English divorce-suit, in which a
certain actor, now well known in Australia, was
co respondent.
** * *
When the news of the Plgott expc se
reached America a N.Y. paper gravely announced
that Barnutn had t ffered Mr. Macdonald, of the
Times, £l5O a week to lecture in the United States
on some peculiarities of English journalism. Mr,
Walter and Mr. Buckle had received similar offers
but had declined “owing to an engagement to
prepare an obituary notice of the proprietary of the
Thundekee.”
** # #
The title of the latest popular English
music-hall song is “ Angels that ought to be
boiled.”
** * *
Cruel thing from Hawk :
There is a well-founded impression in spiritualistic
circles that Miss Collin, who recently attempted to shoot
Kyrle Be lew, is controlled by the spirit of Shakespeare.
** # *
Baranm was taken in by a confidence-
woman in New York ones; and a day or two
after she triad the same game on him, and he had
her arrestel. He, however, relented when she
offered to go with his circus and exhibit as the
only woman he had ever had arrested, and the
only woman who had ever sucseeded in hum-
bugging him.
## * #
Edwin Booth perpetrated one hideous
practical joke in the course of his career, which
was large enough to last for a lifetime. He was
playing Cassius, and Brutus was very drunk.
After the first act that noblest of Romans grasped
his fellow-conspirator by the arm and asked him
for some prescription to steady him up, and
Cassius at once recommended snuff and vinegar
as a certain cure. The hazy Latin warrior tried
it accordingly, and then the curtain going up he
had to go on and discourse in this lame and un-
certain fashion :
Cassius,
Be not deceived ; if I have veil’d my look (meczs;),
I turn the trouble cf my countenance
Merely upon myself (sneeze !); vex'd lam (sneeze !)
Of late, with passions of some difference (sneeze!)
Conceptions only proper to myself (blast that snuff !),
Which (sneeze 1) give some (sne za 1) soil, perhaps to my
behaviour.
Loud applause 1 Titters from Cassius. Voice of
Brutus heard indistinctly in the background :
“I’ll be the (sneeze) death (hie) of you when I
(alohew) O Moses ! (hie) .”
** * *
Mtry Anderson declares she never was
“mad” in the English sense of the word, and
that she is recovering from her “indisposition,”
which really seems to have been a fit of the sulks.
It seems that the critics of “ Our Mary’s ” native
state have been using her very roughly. They
declared that she was “a gawky woman and a
wooden actress.” This made Mary what our
American cousins call “real mad,” and our cable-
grammers, forgetting that “mad” is American
for “ angry,” and not for “insane,’’cabled accord-
ingly. The “ disbanded company ” and “incar-
cerated in an asylum for lunatics” were the
dressings-up appended to the skeleton message by
the daily paper men. It is easy to fancy that
Mary was very wild when she found that the
< ‘ Alma Taden; a ” props and the two thousand tons
of scenery and properties did not fetch the public
of Slowkinsville, but, as The Bulletin stated
when the rumour was made public, Our Mary is
too “levelheaded” (American) to get looney
(American again) as long as she can be sure of a
refuge at the Lyceum with a hundred pounds a
nigh ‘- * * # *
The attendai.ee at the Gettysburg Oy-
clorama on Good Friday was slightly over 1200;
on Saturday it was 1150,
*♦ * *
Santley, the barltme vho la coming to
the coloni; s, is 55 years of age and has been be fore
the public since 1857. His wife is a grand-
daughter of Charles Kemble, the actor.
** # *
Mrs. Langtry la writing her life after all.
She says that for a dozen years or more people
have been talking about her, and now she is going
to have something to say about herself.
I dreamt of a great conflagration
And a tcare in a bottomless land,
While I drifted afloat in half a boat
Aground on a vanished strand,
Where two-thirds of a Christian pirate—
The head of a cannibal band—
Armed with a kedge from a foundered dredge
That was buried in the sand,
Was floating around in a horse balloon
Which I couldn’t nnderstaud,
While au old steam whale with a close-reefed sail
Was driven along by hand.
The story of a noble youth and an ancient,
smashed-up cat
At the Academy (Sydney) has fallen rather flat,
For pantomime is drivel, though you see it at ifs
best,
And “Whittington” is just about as cheerful as
the rest, , .
But though this undressed epic may be hazy m its
tone,
And now and then its metre may incline to make
us groan,
And the pTeeceman may be husky and may sing
his ballad s fl it,
Still Whittington would prosper if it weren t for
the cat.
The ladies are as lovely as the early summer rose,
Except one hoary maiden who whistles through
her nose,
And Whittington is only 12, and very young at
that,
Though antiquity itself was not so aged as his cat.
A dozen fairy maids with wings are dancing on
the hill
(They’re absent—but the statement sort of helps
to fill the bill),
While a horde of Moorish nobles and assorted
buccaneers . .....
Are loafing round with howitzers, with dish-rags,
guns, tnd spears;
And if their jokes were ancient ere the Ark struck
Ararat
More than twenty times more ancient are the
ruins of that cat— , ,
May it perish by the hangman and its mem ry be
defiled,
May it wander through the emptiness of many a
pathless wild,
May every separate curse that ever rose upon the
Alight on every separate hair in its infected tail;
May it roost upon a red-hot tile a thousand years
and more, .
While its musical outpourings up to the welkin
soar, ..... .
And when the saved believers crowd the bridge or
Al-Sirat . , , ., .
May Allah hurl from Paradise the spirit of that
cat I
Let us sing in shrill falsetto
That the public don’t a debt owe
To the authors of the Yeomen —
Of the “ Yeomen of the Guard ” ;
Duller music and libretto
They have never written yet, O !
As a funny thing the ‘' Yeomen ”
Surely no men will regard.
There’s a bind of Maritana
(Though she’s not a brown gitana)
Goes through a blindfold wedding,
Yes, a wedding with a man
Who is due for execution,
But escapes his dissolution
When his blood they would be shedding
By beheading (like Bazin).
Then this man and maid belated,
Little tbiaking they are mated,
Oa the ramparts of the Tower,
Of the Tower do a mash—
Singing drearily and magging,
While the story flagging, dragging,
Full of sham parts minus power
Seems the driest sort of hash.
When the husband (he’s a colonel)
Wins the lady’s love eternal,
They find out their relation,
As they might have done before ;
When he’s p. eased her and caressed her
On his chest, a little jester
Makes a hollow “situation”
By collapsing on the floor.


Wo!let Schnapps
la more U holt some- than
BRANDY or WHISKY.
And ia *
Pere Refreshing Beverage.
tU Q*r**fnl foo obfels Woin'a
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frank ban. near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Freeh and salt water baths In bouse, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Everybody should use Pemell s latest best Sifow-wnrni
P*TKirr Roli.bb PVmtb. It Is the irreatest suooeei of tbs
"Mt Tailor," 164 Klng-straat, Newtown, Don’t forget
him. Salta to maaaure (or £8 Ba.
Bona Fide announcement. Highest cash price
erlven for all kinds of gent’* left off clothing.
Dress suits for «»le or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUTTTKNTON BROS., 11l
Kns’ell ktre* t, MELBOURNE.
The English People’* William
Is the grand old W.O ,
Put Australia's People’s William
Is the Famous Hilly Ton.
Peruse o*t.T sr
JAMES INUhIS & C 0.,.
4 ewe fl Dsas'h Pi,acs,
QRORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Dar iMrsauL CnAMPAoira.-Meseii. Moi*t and Chandoo
are Ihe largest vineyard proprietors and champagne P ro
duos re In the world. Their "DRY IMPERIAL’’ 18
vintage is the pure Juloe of selected grapes from their owtf
vineyards of S5OO acres In the oholoeet district* in Pranoe.
The Imperial Crown Is In each corner of label, and 1881
branded on oork and label
The Brickbat.
[SLUNG BY “TITUS SALT."]
A grea*i moral outpouring has lately des-
cended upon the Australian Jockey Club, and
that association has resolved to put away the
unclean thing and keep its eye upon the Better
Land and be a bright and shining light on the
turf. As a first instalment of this reformation the
committee of the horse-apostles has resolved that
in future no advertisements shall be given to
papers published on Sunday. The Bulletin re-
cognises this as the beginning of the great revival,
and being anxious to help on the good work offers
the following little ideas to the club—without
charge : —
A.J.C. SPRING MEETING.
A Race-Meeting will (D.V.) be held at Rand wick
on 1st and 2nd September, 1889 (D.Y.) when
all believers and earnest inquirers are invited
to attend.
(N B.—At thy rebuke both the chariot and horse
are cast into-a dead sleep. Psalms Ixxvi., O’ )
Tenders are invited from true Christians for the
refreshment stalls, and a few hopeful young
men of the highest morals are wanted to vend
the k’rect card after the manner of the un-
godly.
No Jews will be allowed upon the course, owing to
the way that nation went on in Palestine 1800
years ago.
Batting is strictly prohibited, but any bookmaker
who is prepared to pass an examination in the
30 Articles may offer the odds to the children
of darkness, it being permitted to clean out
the pile of the scoffer and have dominion over
him.
All jockeys must be able to repeat the nine com-
mandments (the other one having got too tired
to be a commandment any longer), and jockeys
pnder ten stone may also be required to recite
a few questions from the Shorter Catechism
in the presence of the Committee.
Each horse shall be distinguished by a brief and
appropriate text hitched on to his tail.
Persona with a comprehensive knowledge of the
wanderings of the children of Israel in the
wilderness may obtain admission to the grand-
stand on payment of £1 of lawful tender.
The representatives of all Sunday papers shall be
warned off the course, and any person writing
for any daily paper which is published on
Monday morning by Sunday labour shall be
ejected and shall fall into outer darkness as
briefly alluded to in Malachi or elsewhere.
The proceedings shall open and close with prayer,
and during the intervals of the service
various points of doctrine will be expounded
by the brother who acts as starter.
Horses are, as far as possible, to be named after
biblical characters, and any horse which bears
the name of a prophet whose character will
stand reasonable inspection will receive 71bs.
allowance.
Busbies are not approved of in the case of lady
patrons, but any lady wishing to wear one
may do so on lodging a declaration that it is
made of tracts or other material which, in the
opinion of the Committee, is not of a de-
moralising tendency.
bis
(Signed) Jas. x White, Deacon,
maik,
his
(Signed) x Oubborn, Chaplain,
mark also.
Hallelujah 1
Good Friday has passed, and the tongh,
leathery, homicidal hob-cross bun has been suc-
cessfully negotiated for another year. Once in
each twelve months that hereditary boiler plated
victual rises to blight the human race, and having
fulfilled its mission and loft the Aryan family with
murder in its soul and riotous frenzy in its en-
trails, it passes away over the visible horizon, to
lie low until it is time to issue forth once more on
its path of devastation. Over four continents
and across three out of the five great oceans the
stern and ferocious bun pursues its purpose of
exciting earthly animosity, and lies like tons of
lead on the digestive organ of the devout citizen,
and yet no one apparently has the courage to
rise in insurrection against it It is endless,
eternal, and practically imperishable. Every year
new victims fall before it and pa?s away with the
bun embedded in their vitals, and their remains
are hastily shunted Into the tomb, and the passing
ages drift over their heads and see them moulder
into dust: bub still tie bun survives among their
wreckage, and only stands out more prominently
as its earthly surroundings fall into decay. Every
year a pall of ominous bun spreads like a clammy
shroud over the feast, and something that sounds
like the footsteps of a cannon-ball falls with a dull
thud into the human inside, and still no poet is
aroused to blast this wooden article of
food, and cast it down a steep place into
the sea. And therefore we call for a laureate
with piracy and rapine in bis eye, and the pro-
fanity of ancient Greece at his finger ends, for a
Tal-ping philosopher who wields with ease and
fluency the 87,000 words—moat of them curses—of
which the Chinese languaae is composed, or for an
African rain maker or other agent of freuzy to
awake and curse tha annual Friday ban in tomes
of indignation, and to throw mud and anathemas
at the public enemy who first invented it. The
bun of the orthodox church is slow in its results,
but very enduring, and its best efforts are reserved
for the dark and silent night. Its victim drifts
faintly off to bed with a feeling as if a boulder
were standing upon his soul; and presently this
sensation spreads and expands and swells visibly
until he falls into an uneasy slumber to dfeam
that he is a vast, green, half-ton beetle built of scrap-
iron floundering cumbroualy over a heavy sea of
Ink and garbage and buna. Then the vision
changes, and he imagines that he is a lost pilgrim
stumbling wearily over an endless glaring desert,
where the temperature is a hundred billion in the
ice-chest, and dcoxed to toil there for a thousand
ages more, bearing ceaselessly on his bowed
shoulders the load of 100,000 iron buns clamped
with brass. For a period that seems like cen-
turies he lies and watches his own progress across!!
the red-hot molten wastes ; but at last the deserbjj
fades away, and the sand and boulders vanish in",
the distance, and the sufferer suddenly finds him-,,
self a meteor tearing through the icy darkness of ,
space, with the earth looking like an impercep-
tible speck of light behind, and the Pole
Star like another imperceptible speck in front,
while all around there revolves a vast
solar system of overdone buns, each with its half-
grown attendant underdone bun lor a satellite.
There are all shapes and sizes and varieties —the
old petrified bun, dead and hung out to dry in the
sky, the half-baked bun that has gone bad and
fires its evil odor across the solar depths ; the mis-
shapen, soggy bun wobbling feebly in its eccentric
orbit, and a hundred more which he is just about
to reckon up, when the panorama fades, and he
finds himself drifting along the slimy rivers of
Gehenna on a putrefied bun which rolls heavily
through the flaming cataracts and down the boiling
rapids. On each side there yawn caves whose
walls are solid fire, and rocky gaps from which
there issues a mephitic blast like a furnace filled
with death, and everywhere there sit and gibber
and howl and ecreech myriads of lopsided, half-
rotted demons all eating buns stuck on red-hot
tridents—buns that are filled with sercents —buns
flavoured with lions and boa-constrictors-buns
that have dead men’s tombstones stuck on top of
them and which bear inscriptions setting forth
that they are “ sacred to the memory of ” but
the inscription and the tombstone are presently
crunched up together and swallowed out of sight
—buns that are made out of the wreck of sunken
ships, and the ruins of dead empires, and the frag-
ments of human hopes, and the splinters of lost
worlds, and myriads of other buns—but suddenly
he seems to lose hold of all the vast chaos of
demons and furnaces and seas of smellful fire, and
he finds himself again on the surface of the earth,
and alone. Above him a dull gray sky spreads
from horizon to horizon; around him is a
dull gray earth from which all life and colour
has vanished and all verdure has fled save a
thin carpet of gray unwholesome - looking
grass and a few stunted trees whose foliage is the
colour of the ocean mists; in the distance a
motionless, tidelesi sea lies asleep, and lighting up
IN DAYS GONE BYE.
Ist SOLDIER: “SAY, MATE, THAT THERE FELLER No, 125 HEV GOT A
BOTTLE O’ RUM UP HIS SLEEVE.”
2nd ditto: “WELL, WHY DON’T YOU TAKE IT ORF HIM?"
1st SOLDIER: “HUSH I WAIT TILL THE HORFISSER ’AS TURNED HIS
BACK, THEN WE'ILL HAVE IT.”
the whole panorama is a dead sun—like a
hot brown bun —standing still in a dead
heaven. A few broken grey ruins mark
the spot where the city used to stand, but all
humanity is gone for ever. Bnt far away on the
horizon a single dull brown object breaks the
awful monotony of earth and sea and sky, and
toiling wearily towards it the last forgotten man
discovers it to be an enormously swollen bun —the
one moveable article of food which was too heavy
to be carried away when the whole human race
took flight a hundred thousand years before.
Everything else has fallen into oblivion. The
mountains have Iren eaten away by imperceptible
decay, and have drifted in impalpable dust into
the plains ; the moving sand wastes have filled up
the river beds and wiped them off the map ; the
volcanoes have grown cold and have ceased to
move; the cataracts have run dry, and the cliffs
have cracked and split and dropped in fragments
from their lofty eminence: but the bun is still
there. And with the lad man sitting utterly
alone on the top of the last pastry, the deceased
planet plods wearily through the sky waiting for
the fulfilment of its destiny.
• • •
Considering tint tho N.S.W. Dasd Honse
hasn’t been built, and that the mighty dead of
the country are getting scattered all over the land
so that the coming Hun of the 20th century, when
he wants to intuit the whole lot of them, will have
to walk his boots off his mis ihapen feet in order
to tramp on their extinct bones, we have resolved
to put before the public a scheme for a simple and
inexpensive mausoleum, which we consider
eminently suited to the requirements of the ago.
The building which we desire to erect is a plain, air-
tight structure of moderate extent, and containing
about 1000 ordinary brick slabs. The first great
man who dies after its completion will be deposited
on the slab next the door, and the others in
rotation; and as soon as the earliest tenant
arrives a powerful freezing machine will be
started and kept going for evermore—or less. The
icy blast from the engine will be poured on
the great man’s corpse and he will become solid
and incorruptible, and eo hard that when his ear
is tried with a hammer it will give back a ringing
sound like the clang of a dray-load of iron falling
on the heads of the Australasian Dicky-Bird
Society. Then, after a while, the next man will
come in and freeze likewise, and the others will
follow, each lying down stiff and immoveable as
his own monument, till at last in the course of
two or three centuries 1000 great men will be rest-
ing on a thousand slabs in the national dead-house,
and then it will be time to build a new dead house
and a new freezing-machine, unless the country is
content to stand its cold meat up against the
wall and crowd the great men together in their
uncomplaining majesty. Meanwhile, of course,
the freezing-machine will pound away with a
ceaseless thump and roar, and Parliament will
vote an annual grant to keep the apparatus going
—until, some day, an iconoclastic majority gets
tired of the cold-meat depht and goes back on the
deceased great; men, and affirms that the icy
mausoleum is stupendous rot; and then all of a
sudden the freezing-machine will stop and the
accumulated gods of earth will go bad in one un-
recognisable heap, and fall into ruins, and roll in
fragments off their slabs, and there will be a general
chaos of thawed-outtallhats, and clothes, end boots,
and politicians, and social purity men, and bishops
and such like, gathered together on the floor.
Whereupon a cable message will be despatched
to London to the effect that the deceased heroes
of N.S.W. are being removed per slush-waggon to
the cemetery, and that tenders are wanted for
disinfecting the most unhealthy sepulchre ever
yet published, and a comprehensive slab will
stand up in the public burying-place setting forth
that a thousand patriots are mixed together
underneath and refuse to be sorbed out.
* • •
Lord Lonsdale, the British nobleman who
owned Violet Cameron and bashed Violet
Cameron’s husband when he called for her, at
latest advices was walking steadily towards the
North Pole on snow-shoes and doing bis best to
keep his ear from getting frozm. Starting from
Southern Greenland he bad snuffled and blown bis
nose all through tbe old, inhospitable Danish
settlements, and when they were left behind he
had osught innumerable colds in the ice-bound
region where the Eskimo man builds his snow-hut,
and pursues the Arctic fox, and lies in wait for the
frozen and songless dickey-bird of the unknown
land. There the walrus saw him scud past, and
the stolid, impassive northern bear sat up on his
hereditary iceberg to consider the British peer as
he trotted towards the mysterious Pole. Then he
shinned up the obstructive glacier and vanished
down the other side, and the man who had
wallopped Violet Cameron’s legal protector had
vanished from the gaze of society and was
swallowed up in the rime and mists of the frozen
zone. His exact situation is now a problem
which is impossible of explanation, and ex-
cept for the irritable seal which he fell over
as it slumbered in latitude 82 or thereabouts,
no mortal has set eyes upon him for a long, long
time. If he doesn’t come back the seat of a frost-
bitten peer will ba left vaomtin the Upper House,
for nobody is likely to send out an expedition in
search of him. Some day, possibly, when the ac-
cumulation of millions of tons of Polar ice have at
last overbalanced the earth and caused it to slew
round suddenly on its axis, and the tropics are
shifted into the north and thearctio zone is fetched
down to the equator, and the white boar and tbe
aggravated walrus are moved to the present loca-
tion of Sydney Harbour, and the unexpected shock
has torn the sens out of their beds and washed away
civilisation, and commence, and the Chinese ques-
tion, and Frretrade and Protection, and land and
li%nd Nationalisation all together, and the earth
is starting afresh with 20 or 30 stunted Africans
and two Eskimo and one Irish priest, and a dog
for its sole inhabitants, a lost iceberg may be ob-
served drifting round in the South Seas, and sit-
ting on the top of it may be noticed a nobleman,
frozen hard for 2000 years, with his eye glass fixed
firmly into his eye where it has glared out for 20
centuries with a you-be-damned expression shin-
ing in the dead optic, and then the survivors of
the deluge will remark to each other in an out-
landish tongue that Lomdale has come back and
is locking pretty fresh, Considering how long he
has been away. [N.B.—As Lonsdale has Just
come back in rags and almost bald with exhaus-
tion, the above is utterly irrelevant, but we can’t
afford to waste a lot of good print,— Ed. Bul-
letin. ]
Slavery In West A ustralia.
Editor Bulletin - Sir,— I wish to direct your
attention to the manner in which the native
blacks are treated in the North-west of this colony
(West Australia). Being a North Queenslander
myself, you may guess that I am not head over
ears in love with the nigger; still I like to see
him get a little fair play. I have just returned
from the Eoebourne district, and can vouch for
the truthfulness of D W. Cowan’s letter (sub-
joined). Mr. Cowan, however, d-.es not give
—so tar as it gees—very plainly he does not
know—the full facts. For instance he, when the
50 natives to whom he refers were being driven
in cha'ns from Ashburton toKcebourne (sometimes
over stages of from 20 to 34 miles wittout water)
one man became raving mad from thirst; he was shot
through the head, unchained from the rest, and
buried in the sand. On making inquiries as to
why those niggers were arrested, I was told it was
on suspicion of having killed a sheep—or rather,
that one man had killed a sheep and all the others
had helped to eat it. I was also informed that it
suits the police and gaol officials in this colony to
have as many blacks in prison as possible, for the
simple reason that the Government allowance for
the keep of each prisoner is about double what it
actually costs to maintain them. At Roebourne
the Government officials have a hobby which takes
the shape of trying to conserve water where the
earth is as porous as a sieve, and for this purpose
they have on an average eighty nigger prisoners
working daily forming a large tank, or, as the
officials call it, “ a bund.” These poor devils are
marched out in the morning to their work hand-
cuffed to a long chain. On arriving at the scene
of labour each man has one end of a chain, thicker
than an ordinary trace-chain and about seven feet
long, locked around his neck, whilst the other end
Is fastened to a wheelbarrow by an iron staple,
and in this fix he toils day after day in the broil-
ing sun (I have watched them working when the
chains were so hot that they had to walk in a
stooped position to prevent their bodies coming in
contact with the blistering Iron) for a term rang-
ing from twelvemonths to two years, the wretch’s
offence being, in most cases, that he absconded
from some master to whom he had been assigned
and who perhaps treated him like a dog.
Yours, truly,
Australian.
Sir,—One would expect that the Government of Western
Australia, after having framed the recent very elaborate
and needless piece of legislation for the ostensible protec-
tion cf the aboriginal nativis of the colony, would be
careful to avoid censure with regard to their own treat-
ment of them Such, however, does not appear to be the-
case, judging from such exhibitions as tne public have
been treated to in this part of the colony during the last
two years, and it ie the most recent of these cases that has
prompted me to address you. In December last,
a herd cf between 40 and r>0 natives, 22 of
whom were women and five children (some of the
latter in arme), chained and naked, were taken from the
Upper Ashburton, escorted by the Roebourne police to
Kcebourne, having been dragged a distance of more than
400 milee, over red-hot roads and under a burning sunv
with the thermometer often standing at 120degs. Most
people will admit that chaining native prisoners who are
en route bo prison is necessary, and perhaps unavoidable,
but why chain women who are not charged with
any offence, or why should they or the children
have been brought in at all ? This is a most legitimate
and useful question for the Board for the Protection ot
Aborigines to address themselves to. That body might
also ask Itself—" What provision will be made for the
restoration of these so-oalled witnesses, women and chil-
dren, (o their own country, or will they be detained in
Roebourne months after the trial of the prisoners and
then be left by our paternal Government to find their way
back to their country as best they can, or perish in the
attempt, as others have, either by hunger and thirst oi T
by the spears cf hostile murderous tribes of their own
race.” It might also be asked why, in these days of easy
steam and mail communication between Roebourne and
the Ashburton, could not these natives have been tried
at Onslow, thus saving them a distance of 200 miles and
the colony a great deal of expense. Since writing the
above it has transpired that these 22 women have been
11 allotted,” or call it by that odious word “assigned,”
with the knowledge and consent cf the Government Resi-
dent of Roebourne, to various residents in and around
that neighbourhood, notwithstanding that arrangements-
had been made with a settler on the Ashburton,
who was travelling thither, to see certain of them
(seven) back to their country safely. These seven,
were also detained and eventually made thslr escape, with
three children. Subsequently four of the seven women
reached a settler's station on the Ashburton, having
travelled since leaving Roebourne over 400 miles. Those-
(our stated that three of the women and two of the
children died from exhaustion on the way. The third
ohil I was in a dying state from I lie same cause and was a
pitiable object, the bones actually protruding through hie-
skin. This is not a solitary instance of tte policy as-
sumed by the authorities in this district towards the
aboriginal natives. Not long since two natives who had
been released from prison attempted to make their way
overland to Lagrange Bay. Their skeletons were seen by
a Roebourne gentleman at Condon. They had perished-
from the same cause as the above-mentioned ; numerous
other similar casts might be olted, but I will only mention
one other that of- a witness from the Ashburton, an old-
man qjiite 70 years of age, who was allowed to make the best
of his way back towards the Ashburton. He only reached
the Fortesoue, or about half way, when the soles of bis feet-
were completely roasted off. and altogether he presented
a sickening spectacle ; and had it not been (or the kind
ness and attention [of a settler on the spot this native
would have been added to the list of such deaths. Had.
any settler been responsible for the same treatment to
natives there is not a doubt but that he wculd have been,
arraigned for manslaughter, and richly would he have
deserved his punishment. But it appears that these
clothed in a little brief authority can in this distant park
of her Majesty’s dominiens be guilty of any ecoentrloily
with impunity. This state of affairs is a crying soandal,
and is nothing short of a disgrace to the administration of-
Justice In the colony. It is calculated to excite contempt
rather than respect (or the law ; besides, it seema to give
colour to the suspicion, that the Act for the Protection ofi
the Aborigines has been created as a mere sop to Exeter
Hall and Downing street. — Your#, &o.,
D. W. COWAN.
Ashburton, Fel»„ 20,, 1880,


»my Tailor," 154 King-Street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suits to measure for £3 3s.
High Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
& CO., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Jarmgton
" By Appointment."
Uniform a specialty ; quality, fit and comfort. Mudl-
man. "Mt Taiujb." 154 King street. Newtown.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Batburst-street, Sydney,
Mobt and Chandon’s Champagnr.— Messrs. Meet and
Chandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
ohampagne-produoers In the world. Their l»ry«
Imperial” 1884 vintage is the pure Juice of selected
grapes Irom their own vineyards of 2500 acres in, the
choicest districts of France. It oan now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant in Australia. The Imperial
Grown Is in each earner ef label, and. 1884 branded on
aoik and label.
JOHN M'EWAN * CO.,
auctioneers,
Lamb and Estate A€Hnt;s,
Business Brokers dt Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Country Properties, Farms, Or.slnt
Properties, bo., bo.
■fi-DKKS List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, VUlarJ
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, bo.
rsfibMl If IIIIMMM fSI tail iHIld Mlrt
All blits po»tes? Tset tm sppllsntloa
Personal Items.
Vogel’s novel, “AnnoDomini 2000,” la a
“frost.”
G. H. Reid, M.L.A., has not an enemy In
the world—barring his eye-glass.
The Parnellltes gave their leading counsel,
Sir Charles Russel), £lOOO a week.
“ Buffalo Bill ” was chief marshal at
President Harrison’s inaugural ball.
Count Til Vi, the Russian rovelist,
regards Henry George as the greatest of living
men.
Isaac Pitman, the Inventor of phono-
graphy, says that over 2,000,000 o! his text-books
have been sold.
The Duke of Sutherland was married the
other day in America —within four months of the
death cf bis first wife.
Boulanger, says the cablemir, ii suffering
from insomnia. He was certainly wide-awake
when he skipped from Paris.
Hornby, the cricketer, has been elected a
member of Cheshire (Eng.) County Council, and
means to run for Parliament,
The evergreen George Ooppln, comedian,
gave a ball at his residence in Richmond (Vic ),
to celebrate his 70th birthday.
As The Bulletin predicted, the Single-
tax League now finds itself compelled to wash its
hands of the N.S.W. Foreign-trade party.
Mias Post, an American anti slavery agita-
tor, who is declared to have had as many as 13
slaves concealed in her cellar at one time, died
recently.
In Whittaker's Almanac for 1889 the
list of peers is ended thus b., born; s., suc-
ceeded; m, married; w,, widower; and div.,
divorced.
In America they are taking to calling a
man who is a millionaire several times over a
multi millionaire. So they are as a rule—precious
“ multy.”
The truly genial old “Bob” Haverfield,
editor cf the Bendigo Advertiser, has died at
last, at the patriarchal age—for a newspaper man
—of 70 years.
When Kossuth heard of the suicide of
the Crown Prince of Austria he remarked, a little
cynically perhaps, “His death is a great loss to
the Hapsburg?. ’
The King of Hawaii told an Interviewer
lately that he would like to dine with the Prince
of Wales. The King’s grandfather would rather
have dined off him.
Fred Leslie, who was here wi.h the Giiaty
girls, has told an interviewer that he first found
cut that he was a come dim by tossing for drinks
with a statue in Paris.
Emma Abbott, a great American song-
stress, managed to raise some of the funds for the
first expenses of her musical education by selling
her magnificent head o! hair.
Mte. Alice Shaw, the calebra ei whistling
woman, is divorced from he? husband ; but that
does not prevent him from paying his little shilling
and hearing her at the concert.
So far as Is known only two Australians
eanspeak Japanese with fluency. One of these is
Consul Marks, of Melbourne, and tha other J.
Murdoch, M.A , of Queensland.
Chief Justice Parley, of N.S.W., and
Chief Justice Higinboth am, of Victoria, were
schoolfellows, They are North of Ireland men,
and were taught by the uncle of Chief Justice
Parley.
The hero of the oft-repeated poem
“ Shamus O’Brien” died ever so many years ago
at Liverpool, N.S.W. He was one of the rebels
of '9B, and was transported to Botany Bay
early in the century.
Bismarck has again got a big thirst, and
persists in drinking great draughts of mineral
waters and brandy. His rapidly-increasing cor-
pulence alarms bis physicians. They should
call in Morell Mackenzie.
Griffi h is In better health than he baa
been for several years. He has left off being skin
and bone; and can be heard chuckling on 1 nday
evenings when he reals the Bulletin out on the
verandah of the Queensland Club.
Mrs. Ward, the Tasmmlan authoress, has
suffered severely at the hands of the Yankee
pirates. While only 36.000 copies of the authorised
version of “ Robert Elsmere ” have been sold in
England 4Q0.0U0 piratical copies have been dis-
posed of in America.
The ground rants of London, the capi-
talised value of which amount to more than
£4OO 000 OCO, do not contribute one single penny
to the rates, while the London houses, the pro-
ducts of human industry, valued at £212.000,000,
pay about *7, 000,000 per annum.
Rev. Dr. Dale declares that he ventured
to ask Sir Alfred Stephen what was the very
earliest thing he could remember. The reply was,
“I renumber being whipped in the year 1807.
It must have been a decidedly pleasing operation
for Sir Alfred has had a weakness fer it ever since.
Parnell has sued the London Times for
£lOO (00 libel damages, which course was
fairly forced upon him by the grudging and un-
manly character of the apology tendered him in
court. The matter is now reported to have been
settled on jayment of £5OOO, and Mr. Walter is
consequently another step nearer to the work-
house.
Mr. A. W. Howltt, P.M. of Sale, Gipps-
land, has been appointed permanent head of the
Mining Department in Victoria, Mr Howitt is
son cf the late William and Mary Howitt, well
known in English literature. He commanded the
expedition to the interior which rescued J ohn
King, and made a second trip to Cooper s Creek
to bring in the mortal remains of R. U Mara
Burke, and William John Wills, which were ac-
corded a public funeral in Melbourne in 1862.
Mr. James Augustus Cuneen unfortunately
broke his neck last week by falling down stairs at
his residence, Paddington, Sydney. Mr. Cuneen.
who had lived long in retirement, was much
respected as a private citizen, but it took
the daily papers several days to find out
that he was once Postmaster - General of
N.S.W., and was the very first Postmaster-
General to hold a seat in the Cabinet. Thus
passes the glory of the world There is a neat
moral herein for Mr. Dan. O’Connor, who just
now fancies himself well on the road to immor-
tality.
According bo the customary “imported
cablegram” in the daily press, Ras Aloula, a dark-
skinned military gentleman, whose war-scream
used to be heard a good deal about the Abyssinian
frontier, has been captured by somebody who
didn’t like him, and beheaded. The deceased
gentleman was chiefly known tn account of the
eminently satisfactory way in which he demolished
a number of unauthorised Italians who were going
about his ccuntry with guns and bayonets some
time ago. After the butchery was over, a bofs
Italian, with a sword between his legs, who had
successfully kept away from the scene of gore,
issued a square piece of paper, in which he set
forth that Italy would avenge the slaughtered
organ grinders, but this event has not yet come
off.
The once ambitious Quienland Parlia-
mentarian, Oscar de Saiga, has made up his mind
to give the politics of the Northern colony best,
if not for ever at least for years. He is now in
London and has settled down as director of a land
mortgage company there There was a time when
De Satge divided public ir flaenoe with M‘ilwraith
and Griffith, and when his alliance with either
meant political success; but the temptation to
play a lone hand always fascinated him, and under
the sway of his master passion his career became
a thing of patches. His retirements from public
life were sudden, his re appearances were sudden,
and the reasons for both were generally unin-
telligible. His character was high, his means
AT THE COURT.
POLICEMAN (to partially-dressed ruffian who is evidently
“ DHEBSS YERSELF. DHRESS YERSELF, SIR; DON’T THINK YOU’RE.
DOWN IN SUSSEX STHREET NOW ALONG WID YER OWN EQUALS.'
more tban ample, and his principles democratic,
tempered with the recollection that he is son of a
viscount Mr. de Satge married a few years ago
and brought his young wife out to his station on
the Georgina River, but Western Queensland was
found to differ much from Piccadilly, and thus he
is back again where people instead of sheep prevail.
The first woman who complained of her
Lot was turned into a pillar o! salt.
One Amerfcin manufacturer of hypoder-
mic syringes has sold 25,000 of them since 1886.
The escape cf the Calliope Induced the
captain of the Olga to dose his men with Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine, and he wai rewarded by getting
his ship off the reef at Apia.
Sydney Even Nooze has struck a real
chunk of humor at last Envious of the hiero-
glyphics which occupy a corner oi the S. M.
Herald, Alfred has arranged for the publication
of a weather chart in the Noo/.e, and in a wild
fit ol rollicking humor he the other evening
printed the chart upside-down.
In Frederick Looker’s “ Patchwork ” there
is this narrative of the last century : A thief has
taken a hat off a citizen’s head and run away with
it; he pursues the rogee and is accompanied by a
sympathetic stranger, who cries “Run ! run ! ” At
last the poor citizen exclaims: “I can go no
farther, not a yard. I am pumped out.” “Are
you quite sure?” “Quite sure—nob a foot.”
“ Very well, then, I’m hanged if I don’t have your
wig.” And he snatches that.
Aboriginalities.
la a N.S.W. district largely peopled wlih
persons of the “ thrue faith,” labours a priest who
might be the original of the one depicted by Lover
in “ Handy Andy.” On Palm Sunday last, while
reminding his flock of the necessity of contributing
largely and well and often to the Easter offerings,
he gave a few nasty jars to certain dilatory and
bibulous members of his congregation whom he
bad in his mind’s eye. Said the reverend father :
“ Ye cannot find any money for your poor pastors
at Christmas or Aysther, but ye can find plenly
of money for the ‘ long sleever.’ Ye cannot find a
small coin for the poor-box or the decoration of the
blessed althar, but you can find money for the
long-sleever. Ye see your poor pastor going about
in seedy clothes and boots of questionable respect-
ability, but not a small coin yell put in the plats
to help him, but ye can find money for the long-
sleever. I tell yez if yez keep on in the coorse yer
going you’ll find yourselves at the end of your
lives in a hoi place which I won’t just now name,
but where ye won’t get long sleevers for love or
money. Now let me not have to complain next
Aysther Sunday about an empty plate, and I
think ye can safely giv the thruppeny-bits a rest.”
* * *
V Bulletin, —There fs a serene joy
among about 3000 of the unemployed. They see
a chance of earning a pound or two in the near
future. This has been caused by the publication
of Dr. Katz’s report about the Rqdd Island ex-
periments. There is room for criticism, however,
and I venture to give an opinion about the late
Rabbit and a’l Royal Commissions. In a matter
of education, health, religion, &o , experts are
heard on every question. Why were no rabbiters
examined ? Why did they not employ some pro-
fessionala to get healthy specimens for experi-
ment ? Now, it is well known that all expert way-
farers through Tintinalogy put the deaths down
to starvation or disease induced by starvation.
Dr. Katz has pronounced them correct in their
opinions. Laymen and paid professionals claimed
that the disease alone had killed them. > Have not
all horsey men seen the disease of lice induced by
poverty ? Asa boy I got lop-eared rabbits suffer-
ing from some disease similar to the mange, which
disappeared when they were well ted, and which
did not affect others in the same hutch.
However, with all the nous and skill and
experience of our paid officials we nave
come back to the original ‘‘catch your
rabbit before you kill it.” This has to be done
just the st me as you catch a horse—enclose him in
a paddock first and then go for him, As far as my
memory serves me, I wrote in *BB to the Eiverina
Grazier or Hay Standard that “ I foresee a
career of usefulness for myself and my mates dur-
ing my natural life ” as a rabbiter. To the i. & O.
Journal I wrote that one line of fence was only a
waste of money, because I knew a wicked old
rabbiter cf 75 who was still strong enough to
throw a pregnant doe over a seven-foot fence, h out
years ago I pointed out that I had caught a doe in
a log, and put it back because the station manager
refused me a job of rabbiting, and dented that
rabbits had been reported to him by a boundary-
rider. The “ most popular ” refused to print my
letter, but stated that they saw nothing clever in
letting loose a rabbit that had been caught. Uur
troubles are, however, nearly over for a while.
Wire netting wants putting up That’s work.
Then trappers or poisoners will have to set to
work, That’s more of it. When 1 have time I’ll
elaborate a pun about Mr, Hebden’s c its and the
doctor, neither of whom have yet killed — Ralph
THE RaBBITKK.
• * •
Dear Bulletin, —Glad tidings of great
joy:—“ Intelligence has been received here that
King John, the Negus of Abyssinia, has been
killed in a battle which he fought with the Der-
vishes. Since his death complete anarchy is said
to have prevailed in the country.” From what I
know of Johannes, I think it a pity that I did not
pot him once when I got a chance. The anarchy
ought to be an improvement. When we were
passing through his dominions on the way to
Magdala, he allowed some hundreds of his sub-
jects to work a stage or two of the Transport
Route on wages. A canard came from the front
that Theodore had routed us, and at once his aid
was withdrawn, so that he might transfer his alle-
giance to Abyesinia. As soon as the report was
contradicted, his men sneaked back to us. As a
reward for his fidelity he got a battery of old guns
and 1000 Enfield rifles — Hibam Abiff.
* • *
Dear Bulletin, —I am not a member of
the Shearers’ Union, simply because I cannot get
them to make one little addition to their rules.
That, however, does not prevent me from entreat-
ing you to give them one more lift by letting the
public know that as yet no active steps have been
taken to secure a speedy release of the Brookong
rioters. It appeared on the face of it that these
men were the scapegoats for the Newcastle and
Deniliquin Unionist?. The judge complimented
the Wagga jurymen on their verdict as compared
with that found by other panels. lam certain
that before another justice the sentences would
have been much lighter, and perhaps the summing
up would have been different. To prove this, it
is a known fact that a man charged with horse-
stealing at the same sessions allowed his bail to be
estreated and as good as surrendered in time for
the next court —with the result that I lost balf a-
crown in betting on his sentence. — Scotty the
Wbinklee.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —The Pigott episode calls
to mind an amusing incident that happened in
Dungog (N.S.W ), when the news of the death of
Carey reached that town of churches. An old
resident tells the story Well, it was wan
noight whin I was at me devoatiors by the sofey,
that Mick Drinan burst in me front door, and
teein’ me on me knee?, ‘Pray no more,’ says he,
‘ Carey’s shot! ’ ‘That be d ,’ sez I, riain’
from me knees and trowin’ me ould hat to the
ceilin’. With that out I goes and sets fire to a
load of wood that I was just afther payin’ seven
and sixpence for that very mornin’, and I danced
round the fire and sang ‘God Save Ireland,’ and
‘The Night Before Billy’s Birthday,’ until the
fire burnt out. Och 1 you know it was a great
evint, only second to the removin’ of Buckshot
himself.” Yours faithfully, Scat.
Oat of joint—The Times.
The Minister of the Interior : The mouth.
The new British army rifle is effective at
20C0 yards, and can be fired seven times without
re-loading.
A Melbourne tradesman advertises, with
remarkable honesty, that he has for sale a £25
violin worth £lO.
A Sydney Unitarian parson lectured re-
cently on “ Humbuge,” and a Church of England
one on “Fools” Adrian said: “See how these
Christians love one another !”
The poor Jews of London, who are the
victims of the sweaters, every Saturday march to
the principal West End Synagogue to exhibit
their misery to their rich 00-religionists.
Mrs. Hamoneg : “Where’s the dinner?’
Brigita: “ Shure, ma’atr, whin Oi was goin’
through the hall wid it, that new boarder pulled a
revolver on me, grabbed th’ chicken, an’ he’s
locked himself in his room Puck.
That lengthy Agnostic Joseph Byrnes, who
has for years been running “amok” through the
Victorian law-court?, and who recently polled 525
votes for Collingwcod at the general election, is a
trifle eccentric in his habits. Joseph spends most
of the time he does not occupy lecturing or
badgering judges and barristers, in peering down-
ward through microscopes and upward through
telescopes, and the balance is spent in sharpening
bis little hatchet to cut down rampant iniquities
by means of his weekly paper the Libkbato*.
wherein, without moving a muscle, he sempiter-
nally prints a fine assortment of howling libels.
His journalistic ways are peculiar. Sitting at a
table, nearly up to the knees in papers, he throws
every sheet of manuscript, when finished, in
a “ Get thee behind me Satan ” manner,
over his head into the heap of newspapers, pamph-
lets, ooened envelopes, and answered and unan-
swered letters that strew the floor. When he has
finished writing the trouble begins. Crawling
about on his hands and knees, hither and thither,
he attempts to disentangle the finished sheets
from the literary litter that encumbers his orpet.
So netimes he Is successful, oftener not; and thus
his serial story “Job Stoner” has been running
for several years simply because he can t find the
plot, and for the same reason at an early stage
in the story he married Job off-hand and gave him
a small family, and the several chapters later
detailed his troubles with his eye-teeth, and his
pride at his first pants. When Josephs step-
daughter has time to officiate as bis amanuensis
his copy is decipherable, but as ha can’t read bis
own writing, and as the only 14 comp who could
recently died of brain fever, it is not uncommon
to find an article on the “Transit of Venus
inextricably intermingled in his columns with an
epistle to Bishop Field Flowers Goe. while if each
column did not contain at least fifty typographical
errors his constant readers would lose half their
fan*


cs\'
/—/f/
m
, %
£1 Tv ,
~ Jr
i
/ A /vy
C()NTRIW||||
Rtuitfecf ffjMW h
C///ME SE )jw|w|^
| :| ; j I
S/£S'£ S 3 ScS?£sc^ ejy£/#y///4y/S' /j£& Ctts-s £yf?^ S'y/y &./*&<>£
tZs?cC Cc />e.o/>&~y<r<.*=Ce.


W' r \ur-
"
e ‘X>e/*' fcS
*
\\*yy
31E/ Czar of Russia uoiff tyitihc _ Cable
u He. ui/l jo UjH/t di sqaise of a Corrjnj\%%\oyr
PUBLIC SCHOOL DRINKING WATER,
K IAM A, Thursday.—A report having been
forwarded from here some time ago to the
Department of Public Instruction stating that
the water used fdr drinking purposes at the
Kiama Public School was uanure, a sample of
the water was order’d to be forwarded to the
depart tu-nt
lei
It)iul Coijiyy}op er
sdƒ
ZOLA'S WORKS DETAINED
TOMS AUTHORITIES.
ißy Tklkobapb.)
Mrlbodbke, Wednesday.—The Customs
authorities have detained a consignment of
reputably obscene literature which arrived re-
cently by H.M.3. Victoria lor Melbourne book-
sellers. It will be one of Mr. J. 3. Patterson's
first duties as Commissioner of Customs to de-
cide whether these books are fit for public cir-
culation or otherwise
df
rJei c^' g
ili
yrfe, /■ Sa cj —
dccffe //?£#/ £ya/eur ctopf
/P e/ fs
* / Oja/et-
n - “ 7
S* hf~ /?*- . iSty &*•>'*? far*
/7~ (jcLyfe 7s a /r
I Post I fto
.6) 11!| 5
t^W
kt w *
i / ft r -v "v,
UHf(rioo c|t/cf IjrilfyovfiPi-Z'
df
A Hopkinsonian Melange.
THE SOLDIER'S RETURN FROM
MIDDLE HEAD-
With a "head" of his own
"yfyc/ rf* irtrififet
S/ff cCfcC ??&/
e.cCcc/6os $s I
'StJorcC / /,
Apct tefo*farf'^.J


£JRESOENT BREWING 00.’S
“ AURORA 99
PILBBNBB BSE H.
F. B. WHEELER & CO.,
266 Clarhtci STRKirr,
SYDNEY.
IV. H. PALING <£ Co., Ltd., George Street, Sydney,
AVK jait opened % m»gn! fic e nfc lot of NKW from the Orlbbratkd Maktcrb, STKINWAY, ERiRD, UKREL, FENRTOH, LTPP, RONT3CH, BLUTHN
OOLLARD »nd other* { also of the wonderful VICTOR piano* it £45. end KSTKY ORGANS. No suoh varirtt or VAin* luiwnm roe oabh or trrws
Society
The magnificent Fibzgibbon says that the
“ Q leea City of the South ” ought to be known as
Murderous Melbourne. He is Town Clerk, and
Should be competent to pass au opinion on this
matter.
From Adelaide comes the distressing In-
telligence that Lord Kintore didn’t clutch hold of
the loving subjects who attended his first levee,
" but contented himself by merely bowing.” The
new Governor being a pretty meek and lowly
youth, it is not surprising to find that he was
so easily contented. Yet his act of self-denial
apparently “has given offence to a number of
those present on the occasion.”
Speaking of Governor Klntore’s first levee
at Adelaide, a Sydney paper weeps audibly on its
printing press :
Letters appear in the Press this morning commenting
on the coldness of his reception, and it is stat'd his how
simply consisted of the closing of an eye.
In other words, Kintore winked scornfully at the
“ loyal ” throng who had come to wallow at hia
feet. Probably he meant to hint that it wasn’t
worth keeping up the farce of devotion to the
throne as he and the loyal throng were equally
behind the scenes. Consequently he winked.
Princes and viceroys both wink a good deal in
these times—in fact, almost the only European
Sovereign who doesn’t wink is the new Emperor
of Germany, and he is too mad on account of his
ear to indulge in any light recreations. An em-
peror can’t wink when he has got an ear on him
that is likely to bring him to an early grave.
* • *
Before Cardinal Moran started to built his
colossal ecclesiastical college on the ground at
Manly Beach, granted years ago by the State
to his church, he could, had he obtained the
State’s permission, have sold the land referred to
for at least £lOO,OOO. But he did not sell it. On
the contrary, he has spent upon the site not only
the £70,000 cash left at hia disposal by the late
Archbishop Vaughan, but also £20,000 or £30,000
additional; so that the concern stands him in at
least £200,000, from which vast capital not a shil-
ling of income is derivable. It was Archbishop
Vaughan’s declared intention to sell the ground
in question, add the proceeds to the money already
in hand, and save up until £500,000 had accumu-
lated—the whole to be used as an endowment for
the churches and schools of the Sydney diocese.
Cardinal Moran, whose great fad the building of
this huge cut-stone palace has been, now finds that
ha has on hand a veritable white elephant. Up
to the present he has only succeeded in securing
eight students for the priesthood who each pay an
annual pension of £4O a year. £200,000 is thus
at present being devoted to making eight boys
into priests, and finding lodgings for the Car-
A SHEEP PROBLEM.
SHE (fresh from England): “WHAT IS A ‘SHEEP-STATION,’ CHAWLES?”
HE: “A SHEEP-STATION IS A LARGE AREA OF LAND ON WHICH SHEEP
RUN.”
SHE (innocently): BUT WHY DO THE SHEEP RUN? I CAN’T UNDERSTAND IT
AT ALL AND THEN AGAIN, CHAWLES, WHAT IS A SHEEP WALK?”
(Chawles gives it up.)
dinal and his staff of professors. The fact
of the matter is that Australian boys
don’t want bo become priests, although, curiously
enough, many rich and clever and charming Aus-
tralian girls are ready enough to become sisters of
charity. Cardinal Moran, if he really wants bo
manufacture priests in Australia, will find it much
the better way to import the raw material from
Ireland. For £20,000 he could have bought within
say, 20 miles of Sydney, a fine piece of agricultural
land on which for another £30,000 or so he could
have raised an earthly paradise with room enough
therein for everybody and everything save the
world, the flesh, and the devil; and had be taken
such a course he would have had £150,000 at his
back wherewith to endow the institution. As
matters stand, he has spent all his money, and
finds much trouble in raising more ; he has squat-
ted on a reck which he could have burned into
gold and out of which he can’t now get even a
head of cabbage.
• •
The Bulletin has a suggestion. Let the
Cardinal start a hash-foundry—in plain English,
let him take in boarders. In our mind’s eye,
Horatio, do we see the representative of Sb. Peter
sitting at the head of the table before the old,
familiar, seventeen-times-out leg of mutton,
and J. Smith, the needy pressman, saying
unto him : “ Sorry to trouble your Eminence,
but will you kindly pass the butter ?”
Then we fancy we hear the Cardinal saying
faintly that butter—by the permission of the
Church and under the direct supervision of the
saints—has riz, but that he can recommend the
oleomargarine, and that there is some very good
mutton grease on hand, also that the lard is first
rate. Cardinal 1 pass the mustard,” says the
hoarse voice of a heretic at the foot of the table,
and his Eminence hands that article of diet to
Father O’Higgins and directs him with a shudder
to transfer it to the unbeliever. “ Thank you,”
f" the response—“ could I trouble the Holy
Church for some fish 7 Don’t give me the tail this
time ” Then there would bo the picture of Father
M'Qinnis—may his soul rest in peace—sitting op
to keep an eye on the sinful Swedenborglan Dag-
man who in six weeks in arrears, and who is
suspected of a design to escape by the window
with hia traps ; also Father O’Toole, who gets
rheumatiz through going down to let in the riotous
boarder who comes home at 1 ».m., and beseeches
his Eminence to throw down an assortment of key-
holes— hie— an be eholly goo’f’ler, and who falls in a
heap on the stairs and asks, in a falsetto voice, if
the umbrella-stand is St. Peter. Further, we see
with the eye of faith, the Cardinal endeavouring
to paralyse the Prodestan’ cat that comes mooning
over the back wall looking for scraps, and arguing
with the Baptist who suspects him cf having put
holy-water in the shower-bath in order to under-
mine his faith. And then we see Abigail setting
out with his portmanteau to spend a week at the
Cardinal’s private hotel at the seaside —yes, on the
whole, we strongly urge the Cardinal to run a
boarding-house—or else a private lunatic asylum.
Tt e two are about equally comforting, and both
are a little more profitable than each other, in a
confused manner of speaking.
• * «
From the “ European ” Mail :
Rev. F. Hastings leaves for his new post in Adelaide in
Apri l . Mr. Hastings intends to take with him to Adelaide
moa'i of h ; s household goods, and he is quite right, for
much of bis furnitura is almost invaluable. Mr. Hastings
has bean a great traveller, and he has picked up much of
bis funiture in many different parts of the world. He
has, among other curiosities, the model of a chair in which
John Banyan wrote his “Pilgrim’s Progress,” and the
model of another chair in which Shakespeare sat at the
Falcon, at Stratford-on-Avon.
We have by us the model of a pocket handker-
chief on which King James, of sacred memory,
did not blow his nose. Also, facsimile of penny
fished up by Simon Peter, and a copy of the
flounder from which it was taken. Mr. Hastings
can have the lot for haif-a-crown.
• » *
The reverend pastor Berry, a popular
devil-smiter, cf Wellington (N.Z.), started a
serious innovation the other Sunday by inviting
Miss Ackerman, an American female woman who
gives lectures, to occupy the pulpit in his stead.
Before allowing the lady to start, the inconsider-
able pastoral vegetable delivered an address on his
own account, in which he set forth several times
concecutively that he didn’t care as much as a wet
Sunday’s collection for the injunction in Ooiia-
thians against female preachers, and declared that
the Apostle Paul didn’t know anything to speak
of down in Judee. He spent 4. r Hniautes altogether
in thus demolishing the Gospel, and all the time
Miss Ackerman was struggling for a chance to
begin ; and by the time he knocked off he had
successfully edited the Gospel until Peter and
Barnabas wouldn’t have recognised it. And now,
what we want to know is—where does Berry ex-
pect to go to when be perishes, and what is the
good of a Gospel at all if every one-horse preacher
is at liberty to knock bits cut of it whenever he
wants to? The good old Scripture of last century
would hardly know itself now if it could step out
and look at itself. The personal devil has
gradually faded away until he has become a poor,
tired, washed-out, red nosed spectre that could be
thrown out by the potman of a threepenny bar; the
material hell is located in a cool seaside suburb
and is to let unfurnished.; the Ark has foundered,
and is generally bluffed off as being only an
allegory ; Jonah and the fish which took
him In are both smothered; the lion which
Samson tore up like a piece of wet blot-
ting-paper has been gradually pared away, and
has had bits taken off it until It has been
reduced to tho size of a wheelbarrow; the
serpent of Genesis has been boiled down into the
thin, unsatisfactory soup rf parable, and the
people who used to note with satisfaction that he
was doomed to travel on his stomach and eat dust
for the rest of his days now observe with diagmt
that he doesn’t eat dust or feed on bricks at all,
and want to know what he used to walk on any-
how ; and generally the Scripture has been edited
too much. And now things have got so low that
an ordinary cheap amateur preacher may stand
up and oast reflections on the brains of an apostle
who probably knew more down in Jerusalem than
all the other eleven put together, and no one rises
In Indignation to ask why Berry doesn’t build his
own Moses, and have a Deluge all to himself, and
start a private Sbeol on Thursday Island.
•
It appears, after all, tint it was not the
moral influence of Wales, but that of the new
Mrs. Joe Chamberlain, which iniuced Her
Gracious to promulgate the imperial decree by
which her feminine subjects are officially allowed
to have some clothes on in her presence. Mrs.
Chamberlain is the owner of a neck like the thing
the giraffe wears its stand-up collar on; her beauty
ends suddenly at the throat, and than she tails off
into a sort of T-shaped framework; and in con-
sideration of this infirmity it was ultimately re-
solved that the loyal subjects of the British crown
should be permitted to drag their garments up
round their necks to a reasonable extent. Hitherto
the British girl at Buckingham Palace has served
chiefly as a revival in the flesh of the ancient
Aztec noble who used to undress himself at night
by hanging his nose ring on the back of a chair.
He was desperately particular about his clothes,
was that old peer of Anahuac, and would rather
perish than commit an outrage on the national
morals by appearing before the world without his
nose-ring, but to the outside public—if there was
any public in these days—the solitary garment
hardly seemed worth the fuss he made about it.
Also, the attire of the British girl as she appeared
half-escaping out of everything she had on before
her Sovereign seemed hardly worth worrying
about either.
m • e
Daar Bulletin, —You gave “Doc.” Wyllle
a short send off the week before last, but I think
that many a worse man has had a longer and more
flattering eulogy. You ought to have told those
who don’t know and reminded those who do know
that the old doctor was ever ready to assist the
poor free of charge. On one occasion the priest
at Forbes rode in the wind and rain nearly 20
miles to call in the aid of a qualified medico, and
was saluted with the query—“ Are they willing
to pay in advance ? ’ and he refused to go at all
when he heard of the poverty of the sufferer.
Wyilie was next triel and started iustanter. He
was lucky enough to relieve the caie, although he
caught a cold which might have hastened his end.
I was told by a Government official in Oondobolin
that as a last resource he took his wife to the
“Doc.” and had to t’aauk the latter for saving a
useful and ornamental life. Let him rest; we’ll
meet him right enough when the general reveillu
sounds and the check-gate will open for him to-
wards the pure-merino pen.—Yours, Scotty the
Wrinklkb.
Capld (Smith's) dart —a C.M.G.-ship.
* * *
It is significant of the state of the Mel-
bourne land market that the associated auctioneers
of that infected city took five clear days’ holiday
at Easter. Life is one long holiday with some of
them j ast now.
* • •
Melbourne land syndicators are now rush-
ing to the law courts to have their names stiuok
i ff the list of shareholders, because they were mis*
kd —poor innocents ! —and only took up shares on
the understanding that 15,000 per cent, profit was
guaranteed. This is the funniest feature of the
boom,
* * *
The Prince of Wales, It is said, is now
very depressed and irritable and a nervous move*
meat of the eyelids is very perceptible. “Nervous
movement of the eyelids ” Is good ;
“Tummy”—not given to reading or thinking—
Has always, we know, been addiefei to winking!
• a
The wife of a N.S.W. Civil servant up
North reo a ntly presented her lord and master with
triplets, which were named Faith, Hope, and
Charity resprctivaly.
* * •
Tae following prlzs eplbsph has been care*
fully upholstered for use in tho cold weather. It
is recommended on the ground that it contains no
superfluous language, that it seta forth all neces-
sary facts about the deceased in the briefest pos-
sible space, and that it doesn’t commit itself to
any overflow of bosh about her many virtues : -
The following letter, which appears In a
Sydney daily paper, tries to speak for itself
Sir,— Lady Carington desires me to forward on behalf
of Lord Carington and herself the sum of £1 towards the
assistance of Mrs. Jooea, as she understands that you have
been kind enough to give her the benefit of your valuable
aid by kindly inserting in your columns a subsoription-
list on behalf of Mrs. Jones atd her children, and Lady
Carington trusts that her small donation may he supple-
mented by donations from others who happen to be
acquainted with the particularly sad story nonnested with
the death of Mr. Jones and her two children.—l am,
yours faithfully, E. W. Wau.inotox,
This is almost as mixed as Governor Lech’s last
speech from the throne at Melbourne. All we
choose to make out of the tangle is that Lviy
Carington has lost her two children, and Mrs.
Jones has lost her husband, and the former lady
is endeavouring to work off a sort cf confidence-
trick on the unsuspecting public by cajoling them
into donating donations similar to the donation
she donated in aid cf the persons mentioned in the
ad. which Alfred Bennett donated. Please, Mister
Wa’lington, tell us who is dead ? Is it Smith,
Jones, Bennett, Wallington, and her two children,
or is the whole thing a ghastly joke 7
♦ • •
Mr. Varley, the apostle of social purity,
during his Sunday-before last discourse at Mel-
bourne Royal, solemnly swore that he would pub-
lish in the newspapers the names of “leading
men who patronised the night houses of Lons-
dale-street unless said houses were “ suppressed
within a fortnight ” Time Is nearly up, and—so
far as we know—nothing has been done to appease
V r «rley’s virtuous indignation. He must, there-
fore, redeem his oath by drawing up the little list
and publishing it in the Melbourne journals who
ought to pay a thumping price for such spicy copy.
We would suggest to Mr. Varley that the Aiun?»
has a weakness for drawing public attention to the
vicious goings on of “leading men,” especially if
they belong to the local aristocracy and are de-
voted adherents of the Qioen. Just before the
elections that noble, outspoken organ devoted yards
of space to damaging the political character of
David Qaunsnn, 0. K. Jones, Ac , and the editor,
ever thinking of the public good, will slap In Mr.
Varley’« black list with much pleasure. We ac-
cordingly exhort Mr Varley to remembsr hie
oath and try the A noun first.
MURDWEOUS MELBOURNE.
Sing hey ! for the City that’s Q leen
Of the continent known as Australia,
Where the gutters are slimy and green
And all sorts of terror i assail yer ;
It fills with delight and su-prise
Tue minds of our visitors well-born
What a mercy no nobleman dies
When gazing at Murderous Melbourne 1
The germs are abroad on the air,
The microbes get into your liver,
O, show us the fellow who dare
Sit long on the banks of the river.
The dint, lying ten inches thick,
Might choke any demon in hell born,
Or make a rhinoceros sick
That ventured near Murderous Melbourne.
The rights-of-way, narrow and foul,
Are hotbeds of awful diseases,
There insects and bottle boys prowl,
And Mary throws filth as she pleases ;
At night you take girls for a walk,
When into your throat is a smell borne
Forbi iding poor lovers to talk
Soft nothings in Murderous Melbourne.
We write with the windows all shut,
For the sun is below the horizon,
We want some more oxygen, but
We shrink from inhaling the poison.
O ! won’t it be joy to be dead,
And when to the grave in a shell borne,
They’ll say “The bard’s spirit has fled
Through living in Murderous Melbourne.”
E.F.
HE MERELY BOWED.
An earl has come from distant lands
Our Qaeen to represent,
Who doesn’t care for shaking hands
With every loyal gent;
When to his levee, spruce and smart,
Rolled up the eager crowd,
His lordship stood a space apart
And, hang it! merely bowed.
Ah ! little knew the noble Gov.
The country he was in,
A country where the leaders love
To touch vice regal skin ;
A storm is brewing in their breasts,
Already hangs a cloud
About the faces of his guests —
Because he merely bowed.
He needed Loch to give the tip,
Or Robinson, sedate,
To tell him how that levee grip
Upholds the blessed State ;
Kintore, alas ! to put on airs
Was foolishly allowed,
And now the Holy City swears
Because he merely bowed.
No wonder that he gave offence
By treating subjects so,
Who, full of loyalty Intense,
Would gladly kiss his toe ;
No wonder that upon the breeze
Float curses deep and loud,
And ladies cry, at “tabby” teas—
“ My dear, he merely bowed 1”
Though better man had never breathed
From Adam’s day till now,
Though metaphoric laurels wreathed
His pure, unsullied brow,
Though with all virtues ever known
His lordship were endowed—
Yet still the citizens would groan
Because he merely bowed.
But surely in a little while,
For dear old Hingland’s sake,
Kintore will learn the levee smile
And give their paws a shake ;
Then will the happy, cringing throng
Observe— 1 ' He isn’t proud—
He didn’t know we was bong-tong
That time he merely bowed.”
Slnbborn Are,
Weather keen ;
Conk Maria,
Kerosene.
Splendid lira,
Brilliant light;
Cook Maria,
Angel bright.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT AND DIS-
COUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, 90 King Street.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual Banking Business transacted.
The following are the rates of interest allowed
for FIXED DEPOSITS
3 years 9i Per cent.
12 months 8| per cent.
6 months 74 per cent.
3 months 5$ per cent.
For the past three years a Bonus of ONE PER
CENT, has been paid in addition to the above
from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON, General Manager.
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
NTOW T A 'RT.'R! -TONTTNE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.-A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OF THE
PRtSiUMS A PAID RETURNED «« an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival, FULL PARTICIPATION
IN TONTINE SURPLUS, MT Branches In all the Colonies and In the United Kingdom.
[?]
Tine first night of "Sweet Lavender," at the cosy
Criterion theatre, eventuated in the presence of the usual
Criterion crush. Myra Kemble occupied the manager’s
box, wearing a black lace dress out Y-shaped back and
front with drawn black gauze, her hair beautifully ar-
ranged dla Orecque; diamond bangles, pearl-grey gloves
and a huge white feather fan completing a “ toney ” tout
ensemble. Most of the dresses worn were of black lacs ;
one with shoulder scarves of art pink Liberty silk and a
bold design in rich silk on the skirt, and another with
severely plain deoollette bodice lightened by a huge
bouquet of cream and crimson rcses being amongst the
most noticeable. A white corded silk with panel em-
broidered in silver, front of corsage embroidered en suite,
long white gloves and white and silver fan, was a
beautiful toilet on a woman who hadn’t sense enough
to sit up straight. The fat woman wore red satin
outlined with black lace ; and Miss Ethel Grey
wore an artistic gown of greyish purple velvet with
sleeves, full front, and jape of cream lace. “ Sweet
Lavender” (by-the-by, each lady was presented with a
cluster of the fragrant herb, "with the compliments of
the management,” on the first night) isn’t a screamingly
dressy piece. In the first act Miss Lilian Gilmore wears a
fawn tailor-built dress with braid epaulettes, and a high
fawn gauze hat trimmed with pink flowers. In the
second, a pale blue evening gown, out Y-shaped and
sleeveless, with a cluster of flowers on the left side, in
which she looks particularly sweet. And that’s all the
dressing there is. Oh ! I almost forgot to tell you about
the elegant young thing who was descending the d.o. steps,
with all the airs in creation, when she tripped and came
down flop on to her knees. The attitude was intensely
devotional, but I don’t suppose her feelings were, do
you?
The people have returned from “the Mountings ” now,
and one lair girl has come back dissolved in tears. Away
on ths dizzy heights she met and fraternised lor one
sweet week with a spruce and polite youth with a
heavenly mustivy and an English accent. He introduced
himself with the easy assurance of rank, and, seeing that
the nobility abound just now, she and mamma thought
him a “jook” incog. Together they picked the prickly
pear and heard the soft song of the gohanna in the moon-
light, and all was dreamful and lovely. At last he had to
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, April 24, 1889.
My Dear Moobabinda—
The ten-year-old English style of fixing one’s hair in a
little sorew at the back is quite the correct thing among
Parisiennes just now, and is said to by no means suit their
particular style of beauty. They are aggravating the
offence by wearing large, flat hats of no particular shape,
tied under the chin with a bag veil. Then the newest
gowns hang like a yard of pump water, with balloon
sleeves, and the boots have heels so broad and fl at that it
would make a larrikin ill to look at them. After contem-
plating a Frenchwoman who is in the mode, says a
“ home ” paper, a well-turned-out Englishwoman is quite
a refreshing sight. What would they say if they could
only see us, my dear 1
It is too ridiculous to read in English and American
fashion papers that a certain silk or velvet was woven
expressly lor Mrs. So-and-So’s dress, at Lyons. This is
what the wily M. Worth gives his millionaire customers to
understand, and they actually believe, no doubt, that a
Lyons manufacturer stops a loom after it has turned off
the exact quantity of material required for making or
trimming one solitary costume. The “ setting up ” of a
loom, as it is called, is a tedious process, and when once a
weaver was started on a special make of silk, he wouldn't
be allowed to stop at less than a piece, and one piece is
ninety yards, as you know. Mrs. So-and-So can bet her
bottom dollar, if she is American, that a few other women
get some of the priceless fabric that was made “ expressly”
lor her.
Do you remember those large bonnets introduced to
Sydney by Lady Young about 28 years ago ? Even if you
do, I don’t suppose you care about saying so. The space
between the wearer’s face and the bonnet-brim was filled
in by quite an extensive flower-garden. This style of
head-gear will soon be seen again amongst us.
The Sydney School of Industry ball is now fixed for the
29th May, and as it is to eventuate in the Exhibition
Building—the floor of which is like a ploughed field sown
with nutmeg-grafers—it won’t be all joy. However,
the Baron and Lady Carington are to be there, so it
doesn't matter. Nothing like that signifies when things
are strictly “V.R.,” you know.
At the Sydney University Commemoration the other
day Lord Carington feelingly remarked that “we ought
in time to be able to produce for the assistance of the
protection of our shores a united Australian fleet, worthy
to sail in company with those gallant men who for so
many years have defended our shores.” Fairy tales 1 Is
playing tennis, waltzing, flitting, &o. “defending our
shores ” ? As to being “worthy to sail” with them, our
boating-men are the best sailors in the world—
when a terrible calm is raging and they have
got their boating clothes all on—and, again, any
Australian who can “serve” a ball, reverse in three-
four time, and look killing nothings at the best-jilted
girl in the room, is quite eligible to navigate the globe
with an admiral.
Hans- the-Boatman-Arnold is going home to America by
way of England ; he leaves Sydney by the Orient on 4th
May. And apropos of Thespis, Handsome George Rig-
nold was advertised to take the chair at a lecture by a
Rev Something or other, on “Humbugs, Social, Political,
and Religious,” the other night. On the eventful even-
ing, however, Handsome George stayed away. No man
not even an ’.actor —could sit on a platform while
another man said cruel things about him at the top of his
voice, P S —This is a little joke of my own.
Lady Carington will hold the first reception of the
season on Friday, May 3rd, at 3 p.m., at Government
House, Sydney, when the usual spectacle cf the sassiety
people glaring superciliously at the no a-sassiety people
who bave taken the opportunity of straying within the
sacred precincts and fingering the viee-regd ornaments,
and seeing what the chairs are stuffed with, will be
observable Many of these non-eassiety people are In
a sad plight They are so indefatigable in inscribing their
full names and addresses in the visitors’ book in the vain
hope of getting a card for some gubernatorial spree or
other. But they never do, and never comprehend that
they won’t. Decades of disappointment don't show ttat
a favoured and unalterable few run Government-house
as thorough’y as if it were in the claws of a social syndi-
cate.
OUR CHILDREN.
NEWSBOY (to lady whom he supplied with daily paper): “PLEASE, MUM, THIS IS MY
SUCKBESSOR. I’VE SOLD MY BUSINESS TO HI M. I’M AGOIN’ TO
RETIEE.”
tsar himself away. Before going he said with a voice fu'l
of emotion; “ I shall see you in town, and I wish to say
that if you ever want to see the latest things in ribbon or
lace come to the ribbon-oounter in Gratzier and Company
and I'll get the whole cf the stock down for you.” Then
he vanished, and now a high-born girl weeps in a subur-
ban villa and practises a cold and paralyzing glare in her
calmer moments.
Owing to the heart-breaking fact that nearly all our
social splashers have taken themselves and their unspeak-
able accents to Parse, the season this year is going to be
an extremely flat one. This week, with the four days’
racing at Randwiok, the Government House first ball of
the season on the 24th, and Mrs Wrench’s dance at
Need’s rooms on the 2Brd hasn’t allowed us to understand
how entertainless we are left ; but when the second vice-
regal ball (to eventuate early in May) has resolved itself
into a more or less filled programme and a pair of worn-
out shoes, then people will comprehend that they’re
booked for a deluge of dullness, only lightened by rinking
and the theatres.
Apropos of the recent olearan'e for Paris, one obese and
wealthy Sydney J. P. pronvsod Its wife to take her to the
Exposition, but at the last moment altered his ‘ 1 mind.”
He said “that as Yewrope were in a state o’ combustion he
warn’t agoin’ to put hisself right on the middle o’ the
bother. Wor might break hout any minnut, and he
reckoned Orsetralia was eafest anyhow.” So they remained
and Mrs. J. P. is still venting her ft clings on the cat.
I have just heard a sad story about the effect of exces-
sive skating, that may cause rink enthusiasts to hang
their roller-skates on the willow-tree, or anything handy,
and take to their wide, flat feet as of old. Two sisters,
living in Newcastle, N.S.W., went quite insane recently,
and the medical men aver that too much rinking is
responsible for their derangement! However, perhaps
it’s wisest to let the ekaters whirl on to the finish, for
the average linkist would be vary entertaining as a
lunatic.
Whilst in Sydney the Eurl and 0 mntess of Onslow,
oioeroned by the Baron, vieitsd the Fish River Caves,
where they stayed nearly two days and left “highly
pleased and delighted, dontchewknow ” with the whole
show, as all titled people are who go up and down by
special—strictly “on the nod.” Whilst at the mountains
Lady Onslow was accosted by a wealthy Sydney
sassiety female located there for the good of 'er ’elth, who
rushed up with outstretched paw and gurgled in her im-
pressive bass : “ I believe you are Lady Onslow ? Lady
Carington and I are bosom friends— you may have heard
her speak of me. lam Mrs.,” &o„ &c. This kind of thing
does sound so well to bystanders.
I learn that the Melbourne people who interest them-
selves in such matters, are smiling audibly about those
Thursday afternoon receptions which their Vice-Governor
was to hold so regularly. The poor man soon saw the
error of his ways, as might be expected, and a brief an-
nouncement that he has some particular engagement,
away from Government House, on visiting days might
just as well be stereotyped by the newspapers, for it ap-
pears every week. It wasn’t likely that a lone, lorn man,
like Sir William, could be continually playing the amiable
to a mob of strange women. Lady Lo:hhad to give it
best.
Mr. Howard Paul, who was formerly, I believe, a single-
handed entertainer in London, d la Frank Lincoln, is
talking about writing a series of articles on how Mrs.
Langtry keeps her beauty. I know how a number of
Australian ladies keep their beauty. In a box.
Joy for the Benedio‘B ! The reign of the husband-
beater is drawing to a close.
The Earl and Countess of Onslow left Sydney for N.Z
hy the Mariposa on 17 th inst, and ware seen off by Lord
and Lady Carington. The vics-regal children, the ladies
M. and W. Onslow, with their governess, also the im-
ported Onslow flunkeys and the vice-regal “ properties,”
had departed by the preceding steamer undsr the ex-
hausted charge of Lord Cranleigh, A,D O.
The performance of Rossini’s “ Stabat Mater ” and some
other items at Her Majesty’s Theatre on Good Friday
evening, under the baton of Mons. H. Kowalski (who
shortly leaves lor Hingland), resulted in an absolutely
crammed house. We had Flora Graupner in an angelic
sort of white silk trained gown, very nearly at her best in
Gounod’s “Ave Maria.” We had golden-tressed Lilian
Tree in a black-jelled frock with black velvet train, ren-
dering the high and (in other throats) occasionally
screechy “ Infl unmatus ” like a seraph who adored the
wild, high C. Then the “Fac ut portern ”of Madame
LVblache, the “Pro PeccUis” of Signor Buzzi, and snne
parts of Dimitres go's “Cujus Animam” were all sweet
melody, while the house rose at Kowalski's pianoforte
solos. As I have said, the “ awjence ” was immense, but
there was no dressing, as it's correct to attend oratorios in
the nearest approach to sackcloth and ashes one’s bureau
contains, though two or three came decollete, and locked
as if they wanted to get under the seat all the while, poor
things 1
Three enraged correspondents inform me that society
somewhere or other in N. S. Wales is stirred to its very
boots over the mean carryings on of a stingy bank-manager
(engaged to a wealthy S,daey gir ) who did something
inexpressibly miserly over some sweepstakes at the local
races, and simply behaved like a fiend in conneo'ion with
ice-cream. Tde story is very harrowing—and local
A woman, in a hurry to be appropriated, advertises in
the Noose for a husband, concluding “Open one day.’’
This is brisk, indeed, and must have a dreadfully confi-
dent sound to those maidens who have been “open”
forty years or so, mustn’t it ?
Vague S.M.H. advt.:
A T DARLINGHURST —APA RTMENTS, furnished,
suit married couple or two gentlemen; terms,
21s ;no children, ividow lady, bath, gas, piano. 10,
, off road.
What I virtuously thirst to learn is—where does the widow
come in ?
Apropos of advts., what do you think of this—
I aIVORCE —First class Private Detective is now
J-r Disengaged ; open 3 days. Mars, Herald, King-
street.
“Now disengaged” is sublime, isn’t it? We are getting
on to the plane of higher civilisation by leaps and bounds,
evidently.
It was damp for the Metropolitan Lledertafel concert on
the 16th instant, but a steaming crush resulted, and it was
pathetic to recognise one’s umbrella, borrowed years be-
fore, standing about the cloak-room. The programme
was a thing of Joy (with a big J), Mrs. J. W. Turner's
Binging of Cowen s “ It was a Bream” (as Leslie used to
say) and Mr. Clancy’s rendering of “Good Night! fare-
well ” being especially enjoyable. “Lucy" Allpress was
there, too, with his violin.
Apropos of “ Jukes and such,” the “Orient” dumped
a further consignment—Lady Anne Somebody, an Honor-
able Mister and an honorable Miss on our shore last trip,
and, adding "these tothoss,” the place isliterally stiff with
aristocrats, who go about languidly in special trains and
things, and darken the air with “haw.” One cannot do
the block without poking an earl’s eye out with one’g
husband-beater, and there are wild stories afloat that the
Baron has h-.d to give some of the lesser dignitaries
“shakedowns ” on the dioing-table.
Laly Carington has written to many of the ladies who
helped to engineer the forgotten Women’s Exhibition,
thanking them personally “for the good work” they
had each rendered, and expressing her “ warmest thanks
and congratulations ” upon their “ share of the work and
the way they did it." The only person to whom the
Governor's wife ought to send adulatory scribbles of that
kind to is—herself; for had she not gone so heartily into
the aoheme from its inception hard y one of those “ ren-
derers of good work ” would have raised a fat digit in the
affair. In the sura and certain hope of balancing on a
dais and clawing vice-regality in the eye of a mob, Sydney
aristocracy worked itself bald over the Women’s Ex-
bibition.
Apropos of rinks, several of our great minds are com*
batting in the Sydney Press on the important topic of
skateresses wearing gloves. One of these thu s uncorks
himself
I am a good skater, and as such I have the plea-
sure of skating with different ladies who all
wear different coloured gloves, each of which
leaves a different impression on my hand, so that I
present a very funny spectacle after the night's
pleasure is over ; in fact, I have had as many as
four different colours on my hands lor weeks
afterwards.
Lucky man if he doesn’t get four different girls on his
hands, each wanting to scratch the other three.
Seriously, though, I think gloves might be abolished at
rinks. For one thing, it would enable Edwin to see if
Angelina’s nails were rose-coloured.
Interesting to the noble army of governesses:—
fhOOK.—Wanted, oomoetent, experienced Cook.
Wages, £5O ; no washing.
And in the same paper I read
/GOVERNESS required, &c., teach three little
children, English, French, music, &c. Help
with needlework ; salary, £3B 1
Such i) lifa. The frail of the public school is over us all.
The inter-colonial lawn-tennis tournament (N.S.W. v.
Victoria) will happen at the Association Ground, Moore
Park, Sydney, from the 4th to the 6th of May, and, as
tennis is fashionable, I suppose Potts' Point will be there
to see with its new winter frock on. lam told, by-the-bye,
that the Victorian team stands the best chance of an-
nexing the trophy.
Yours truly,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Motto for drought- stricken Wilcannla : —
“ Much cry and little wool.”
Vienna proposes to hold a mi T e beauty
show, the judges being ladies. Prizes will be
given for the handsomest man and the finest
moustache.
Tue Augllctu Bishop of Brisbane appro-
priates the whole of the collection taken up at the
services at whnh he assists. The R.C. Bishop
absorbs only one fourth, but he does that whether
he assists or not.
Sydney D.T. says thit a school for the
ballet has been badly wanted in Australia for
s ime years past; and yet the last time we saw
Editor Ward he was not sufficiently bald to ac-
count for his gciog on like this.
Taera is nothing like whisky In this world
for preserving a man when he is dead. But It is
one of the worst things in the world for preserving
a man when he is living —Dr. Guthrie, Much
depends on the brand, Doctor.
A witness at Melbourne Criminal Court,
last week, had to be expostulated with because
he would refer to the highway robber in the dock
as “ this gentleman.” According to evidence the
witness had recognised prisoner’s gentility by
aiming a brick at him.
The Empress of Austria wishes to commit
suicide, in order that her royal spouse may marry
again, with a view to inflicting more archdukes
upon this weary world. This is the most awful
form of insanity recorded in history, and we
sincerely hope the Empress will get better.
The four sweetest lines iu the language :—•
If I could have a bird to love
And nestle sweetly in my breast,
All other nestling birds above,
The turkey—stuffed—would be the beat.
This is calculated to raise the bile of the Austra-
lasian Dickey-Bird Society.
The American Hop Bitters word contest
is, we are informed, over. The 650 dollar prize
has been awarded to John Wingfield, of 127,
Victoria Parade, Melbourne, who—may Heaven
pardon him! —made 33,050 genuine words out of
the title American Hop Bitters. Albert Long,
Flinders street East, Adelaide, woh the second
prize of 250 dollars, and Miss Rose Vallins,
teacher State School, No. 33, Ballarat, the third
prize of ICO dollars.
EvargeUut Varley, bent upon adding a
new joy to cur earthly pilgrimage, has taken to
dipping ladies by the light of the moon, in the
briny waters of a swimming bath at St. Kilda
(Melb) This—according to Varley—is the mode
of baptism formerly practised by Saint John,
whose ancient title has been revised into
“Immerser”— John the Immeraer. But, whereas
the anc’ent Immerser used to soak them in the
Jordan when they had nothing on worth mention-
ing, his modern representative ducks them under
Hobson’s Bay in long, uninteresting gowns that
rob the sacred function of all its natural beauties,
and leave tbe real outline of the redeemed soul a
cold damp mystery. Hundreds attended Varley’s
first Immersion with the idea that ii would be a
kind of opera-bouffe set to sacred music, and when
a few scraggy nymphs shivered down the
swimming bath steps in flannel walking dresses
(arranged so as not to float around on the bosom
of the deep) it was generally considered that the
Scriptural Immerser gave the better show. Mean-
time we advise Mr. Varley to see that the bath
is in good repair whenever he adopts this aquatic
system of publicly washing his fl ?ck, otherwise
they may find their sepulchres in a shark, or be
forced to hop into the Kingdom on one leg.
For Sick Headache
USB HORSFORD’S ACID PII0SPHA1E.
Dr. Jno. Lamhk, M.R C S , West Villa, Saurdington, No.
Cheltenham, Eng. says: “It produced good results in
sick headache and brain prostration, tranquillizing the
irritation, giving comfortable sleep. Also in a case of
dyspepsia, with great distension after meals, and flat-
ulency."


p
FAI
AIN’S
PAIN'S
IN’S
LAST DAYS
of
POMPEII.
PHILLIP PARK.
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
GRAND ERUPTION OF
MOUNT VESUVIUS.
Tremendous Buildings Overthrown.
MOLTEN LAVA FLOWING THROUGH
THE STREETS OF POMPEII.
, CITIZENS IN TERROR AND CONSTERNATION.
300 AUXILIARIES
ON THE MAMMOTH STAGE.
Superb Costume?.
GRAND PROCESSIONS.
A triumph of
PYROTECHNICAL ART
Never before witnessed
IN SYDNEY.
COUNTRY VISITORS
do not fail to visit
THIS WONDERFUL SPECTACULAR AND
PYROTECHNICAL DISPLAY.
In addition there will be (riven a display of
GORGEOUS FIREWORKS.
SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS.
In addition.
THIS GREAT MAMMOTH SHOW
will include
ST. LEON’S CRYSTAL PALACE CIRCUS.
The whole being
THE GREATEST EASTER PROGRAMME
ever presented at
MILLION PRICES,
2s. and Is.
Special Reserved Seats to accommodate Ladies and
Children at 3s.
The Broun ds will be lighted by
POWERFUL ELECTRIC LIGHTS
(supplied and worked by
Messrs, G. R Kirkland and Co.),
and thousands of Japanese Lanterns, making a
FAIRY SCENE.
Gates open 7 o’clock p m , Promenade Concert
at 715 p.m. Circus Performance 7.45 p.m.,
Pompeii 8 30 p m.
H. DENTON, of Sydney, N.S.W.
JAMES PAIN, of London and New York.
CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING
ACADEMY COMPANY, Limited,
Yoek-steekt.
THE MOST POPULAR SKATING RESORT
IN AUSTRALIA.
Great Sensational Event to take place at an Early
Date.
Beautifully Decorated to imitate the Ice Palace,
Montreal, Canada.
THE ICE PALACE OF AUSTRALIA.
Mr. A. F. SMITH, CHAMPION SKATER
OF THE WORLD,
In Scientific and Character Skating.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, ccol, equal to any
skating surface in the world, and second to none.
This Palace is lighted by thousands of many-
coloured Incandescent Electric Lights provided by
the well-known firm, G. K. Kirkland and Co., 65
York-street, Sydney.
GREAT IMPROVEMENTS
Newly Fitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of Competent Instructors.
Good Music by Full Band
Superintended by Mr. George Vassle.
Grand Exhibition in Skating by the Best Talent
in the World.
A. F. SMITH, Manager,
Metropolitan skating rink,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
Two minutes from Railway Station.
THE COOLEST RINK IN THE CITY.
SPLENDID OPEN-AIR PROMENADE.
Beautiful Views of HARBOR and CITY.
City Band every evening and Saturday afternoons.
The FLOOR has been laid with MATTAI and
has been pronunced Second to None.
The Building is brilliantly illuminated with
Incandescent Electric Lights, provided by G. K.
Kirkland and Go., York-street.
SESSIONS :
Morning, 10, for Ladies and Children only.
Admission free, Skates 6d.
Afternoon, 2 30. Ladies and Children : Admis-
sion 6d., Skates 6d. Gentlemen : Admission Is.,
Skates Is.
Evenings, 7 30. Admission (to all) Is. Skates Is.
Patrons (with own skates), hoorage 6d. Season
Tickets now ready.
Fyrmont and Balmain ’buses pass the doors
every few minutes. The management reserve the
right to refuse admission to objectionable persons.
D. W. HIGGINS, Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE,
FRANK THORNTON’S SEASON.
Enormous Success of
SWEET LAVENDER,
in which the Popular Comedian
FRANK THORNTON
will appear, supported by
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’S SPECIALLY
SELECTED COMPANY.
ADMISSION—£i Is. to Is.
Box Flan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIS.
JJ ONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
dally. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
ls.j Children, 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.45.
This and Every Evening, at half-past 7,
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD as the
ROMANY RYE. ROMANY RYE.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 35., and Is.
Box plan open dally at Vestibule from 10 till 6.
J. P, MACDONALD, Acting Manager,
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
M. Mclachrlno A Co.,
Cairo,
Supply all the Courts and Embassies
of Europe;
All the leading British and Continenta
Clubs and Regimental Messes.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mnsgrove*
Lessee: Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer; Mr. Goodman.
Undoubted Suecefs of the
BEST PANTOMIMIC EVER PRODUCED IS SYDNEY,
SINEAD THE SAILOR,
or
TINBAD THE TAILOR.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Maokay’s,
s
OHOOL OF ARTS.
Lessees Messrs'. Hutchinson & Co.
Suage MaEa?er... Mr. Edvard Lawler.
Grand Production of
H. M. S. PINAFORE,
Under the direction of
MISS EMMA WANGENHEIM.
This Evening (THURSDAY, 25th April)
And during the Week
Gilbert and Sullivan’s Grand Comic Opera,
H M. S PINAFORE.
Grand Chorus, Costly Wardrobe, Splendid
Orchestra, Beautiful Scenery, and a
Company of Sterling Artists.
H M.S. PINAFORE received each evening
with the utmost enthusiasm. Read the Press
Notices. Popular Prices. Plan of Reserves at Bruce
and Marsev’s. Overture. 8 sharp : carriages, 10,30,
THOS. HUTCHINSON, Business Manage*.
£jYOLORAMA
BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG
BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG
at
TBE ROTUNDA,
Opposite the Railway Station.
THE BIGGEST SHOW ON EARTH.
The Greatest and Most Sensational Novelty in
Australia.
CYCLORAM A
CYCLORAM A.
No Sydney visitor should fail to see it. Open
daily from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sundays, from 3to
10 p. m.
THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG
THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG.
Admission, 2s. ; Children, Is. Schools of 25 and
upwards admitted at a reduction of 25 per cent.
OY OLORAMA.
LITE SKATING RINK.
The Rink has the reputation of being the
BEST-CONDUCTED RINK
in the Australian colonies.
Here you are sure to meet the Elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
A dmission, One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling ; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets :
Gentlemen, 455, ; Ladies, 40j Season Skate
Checks for all Skates purchased cff us. Gentlemen,
15s. ; Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever
Clamp Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate
Ticket included, Gentlemen, 355. ; Ladies, 30s,
Roller-bearing, 15s. extra; Ball-bearings, £4
extra. Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair ; wholesale,
17s. 6d. Elite Rink ‘Bus leaves Railway Station
every five minutes for the rink ; patrons carried
free. Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bed-
ford-street, opposite the Rink.
*TrocaoerO*
KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Most Complete and Elegant Skating Rink
in Australia.
Cool and Refreshing Atmosphere ! 'gfc
8W The Open Roof a Boon to Skaters !
Grand Orchestra. Gorgeous Appointments.
i;i.i:(Tltl( LIGHT.
* Skates Unequalled in the City!#
Look in future Advertisements for
particulars of
GRAND FANCY CARNIVAL ft BALL.
Open Daily. Usual Rink Prices.
GEORGE OUGHTON ... General Manager.
HOLT & WINNING,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTORS,
42 Down Street,
COLLING WOOD, MELBOURNE,
ALL KINDS OF SCENERY MADE ON THE
SHORTEST NOTICE.
Egyptian Cigarettes.
B=T~ Have the LARGEST SALE In the World.
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best I
Sole Agents:
WAKEEN & SOWN, 11 Barrack Street, Sydney,
Public supplied direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price, No. 5 Cigarette .. 85/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100.
.. No. 8 „ .. 66/- „ 7/- „
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Batburst-street, Sydney.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers,
Batin's Baking Powders,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
tai fell
Stiam Wobks and Bbbwibts
mm nun, vltiho. stone?
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
# Adam Bede’s *
Benevolent Consultations.
“All The Yeab Lound.”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
Ob these events A dam Bede will devote a
portion of his commission to Charities, com-
mensurate with his sticcefs
1,000
NOW OPEN,
Brisbane Cup,
Run at Brisbane, May 24, 1889,
Subscribers at £1 Each.
1,000
First Horse £l6OO
Sfcord Horse 600
Third Horse 400
Starters, £6OO ; Non-starters, £BOO j to be
divided amongst them.
Birthday Cup,
Run at Rand wick May 24, 1889.
10,000 Subscribers at £1 Each. J
!••• i«l
First Horse £4OOO
Second Horse £l5OO
Third Horse £lOOO
Starters, £l5OO ; Non-starters, £2OOO ; to
be divided amongst them.
The Dames of the holders tf the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bede until after the races have been run.
Subscribers must register their letters to
ensure safe delivery, and must enclose stamps
and envelopes for reply and result, and add
exchange to cheques.
Address
“ADAM BEDE,”
Care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
IN, B. EWART FLETCHER.
Sufferers from NERVOUS DEBILITY can
get a clear insight into their cases by sending for
Dr. Fletcher's treatise on “ Nervous Complaints,”
their
Cause, Symptoms, Treatment and Cure.
This admirable treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of
indiscretion in early life, overwork, irregularity in
eating or drinking, etc., etc,, all of which bring
in their train a number of diseases which are
generally classed under the heading of Nervous
Complaints. Dr. Fletcher has spent a great many
years in the study of these diseases, and has treated
a large number of cases during his private practice,
and in consequence cf the success that has
attended his efforts, tas decided to bring his
medicines more prominently before the public,
and to give to sufferers generally the benefit of
hii great experience in these diseases. Dr.
Fletcher wishes it to be distinctly understood that
he reserves to himself the right of refusing to un-
dertake any case, but if he does undertake it he is
willing to give a
WRITTEN GUARANTEE
to cure same, or return all monys paid. Persons
of both sexes who experience the following
symptoms, viz , Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes,
Pains in the Back, Defective Memory, Loss of
Energy and Vitality and Will Power, Constipa-
tion, Premature Decay, Liver and Kidney De-
rangements, &c , &c , should send for this book at
once, as it contains in a concise form simple direc-
tions to overcome same.
Remember Dr. Fletcher does not wish to infer
that he can perform miracles, but merely claims to
be thoroughly skilled in the treatment of these
diseases. Thousands have been cured by him, and
he invites sufferers to investigate his statements
by verifying the testimonials published in his
treatise. Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple
and effective, and within the reach of the poorest.
The treatise will be forwarded on receipt of two
stamps to cover postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER FREE.
Address in first instance :
Dr. H. Ewart Fletcher,
BOX, 1417,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Private residence:
“CLONMEL,” WAVE KI EV.
Doyle’s New Hall, Junee, the best on the
Southern Line. New scenery and fire escapes.
Companies about to do the Southern trip would
do well to engage at once. Wire or write to W.
J. Doyle, Commercial Hotel, Junee. Price
Moderate.
JjJ'KWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory t
SPRING & O’OONNBLL STREETS]
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting hammock chair,
Patented,
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple yet Ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
30s. | without Stand, 255.
Packing In canvas, if required, 3s. Bd. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
Occasional tables in an woods, immense
variety of designs; also, elegantly finished
In Embroidery, Plash, &o. Newton & Lamb.
ƒdf
WALNUT PALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl.
OHS sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Backs. Outside Drawers divided Into compart*
ments partitions to admit of enlarg*
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
V
RAWING ROOM OABI
NETS.
Early English
Chippendale Designs,
Newton & Lamb.
JpiANOFOR ES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NBUPBLD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
df
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Vibt Oomfiib
Assobthbni,
Many quite new designs.
Nhwton & Lamb.
ASY CHAIRS
for Parlour, Library or Bed
any material. Newton & Lamb.
rooms.
New Designs covered to order In
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
Invalids and Mbdioal Men.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciality, Newton & Lawh,
df
T>KDSTBADS, all sires.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Nbwton ft Lamb.
dfd
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), beat
make i also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14 s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from
18s. fid.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. fid.; Washsbands, from 12s. fid,;
Chests of Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. fid. |
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS. UFHOLSTBRBIS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS,
AND


T>
/Urncrs.
fd
s
T
r-i
DELTSSAI PHI tPPS
3&J Barrack Street.
£5O reward £5O
FRAUD & DECEIT.
In order to protect the people from
being defrauded and cheated, the
American Hop Bitters Company offers
the above Reward for the arrest and
conviction of any, person or persons
refilling the American Hop Bitter*
Company’s bottles, and for selling any
vile nostrum or compound as the
genuine and original Dr. Soule’s Ameri-
can Hop Bitters, or for counterfeiting
the Company’s Label a Bunch of
Green Hops on a White Label, with
Black Letters.
DR. SOULE’S
AMERICAN
HOP ♦ BITTERS
(A MEDICINE, NOT A DRINK),
CONTAINS
■OPS, BIICHV, MANDRAKE,
DANDELION.
Ann m FuMIT AND BIST MEDICAL QDALITIH Of
all othir Bitter*.
they curb
All Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Kidneys and Urinary Organs, Nervousness, Sleepless-
Dess, Female Complaints and Drunkenness.
THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS!!!
of testimonials of the most wonderful cures, volun-
tarily sent us, we do not publish them, as they do not
make the cure. It is our medicine, Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters, that makes the cure. It has
never failed and never can. We will give reference
to any one for any disease similar to their own if
desired, or will refer to any neighbor, as there is not
a neighborhood in the known world hut can show its
eures by Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
10 OTHER GENUINE. TAKE NO OTHER.
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
April, 23, 1889.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For conditions see “ Government Gazette.”
Dates to which
Nature of Works and Tenders
Supplies. can be received
at this office.
Manufacture in the colony of
Water Pipes—to be constructed
either of Wrought Iron, Steel,
or Oast Iron
Repairs, Narrabri Gaol
Additions, &c , Taralga Lockup
Additions, &c., Armidale Gaol
Supply of Ironwork, &c., for
Narrandera Bridge (contract
No. 1)
Erection of Bridge at Narrandera
(contract No 2)
Supply of Ironwork, &c, for
Bridge over the Darling River
at Wentworth (cont. No. 1)
Erection of Bridge over Darling
River at Wentworth (contract
No. 2)
Supply cf Ironwork, &c., for
Bridge over Hunter River, at
Redbourneberry (cont. No. 1)
Erection of Bridge over Hunter
| fßiver, at Redbourneberry (con-
tract No. 2)
Construction of Wharf atEuroka,
Macleay River (time extended)
Bridge over Back Creek Road,
Major’s Creek to Fairfield
Fittings, Free Public Library
Completion of Contract for Sup-
gy of Iron decked Culverts to
oads Department to end of
Wednesday,
May 8,
at 11 o’clock.
1889
Additions, &c., Gaol at Young
Bridge, Backwater Creek, road
Moama to Bama. (Fresh
tenders)
Contract No. 50, Sydney Sewer-
age, Sewers, Bourke and Riley
Streets
Removal and Re-erection of Light Wednesday,
Heme, Uiladulla May 22,
| at 11 o’clock
BRUCE SMITH
BEHAN’S
ZB 13* C ZrH Oilc
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
IBS, CATTLE S K
Will make Hair Girow over Oldest Scars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL. SYDNEY, IEBB.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GIRTH GAILS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGEi
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Wholesale:
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co., S. Hofnung
and Co., J. Brush, Son and 00., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Bbisbanb ; B. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, V.S., 33 Pitt Street, Red ter a,
PRICE ... Ss. 6d. Per Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
H. HILDER,
BOOT-UPPER MANUFACTURER,
Impobteb of
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
ELASTIC WEB, GRINDERY, &c,
Wholesale and Retail Leathbk Mbkchant,
539 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured I
(he Greatest Success
of Modern limes.
00KSUL5
All Ohronlo Disease
are Curable.
(t. S. E. ED&GLHANN, Cunltii’ Edict!:,
BKILIiID Sfboialist fob all Ohbonio Disiasbs,
at WIIiMAH BTBEET, HELBOVKITN.
Any suaerers unable to call oan write for a list of ques-
lone (fbbi) by which they oan be treated equally well at
ny distance.
Mr. Kugelmann's treatment differs from all others
inown, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. It
on are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
ibtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
nderstand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
nd will tell you at onoe what it is, and the oost lor a
omplete cure. Tou oan then have treatment or not, as
ou may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
sed by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more I
[COPT.]
Glenhope, 10th July 18801
t H. I. Kdmlmamh, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, Ac.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank B. B. Knight,
if Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1888, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
lake any notice of it for about six months, when I com*
uenoed to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
vent Into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
»Ithout receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
n Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
•Ilhough 1 failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that 1 was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and'
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that 1 was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed lor me, and after treating me
or five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
md he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
Ines, as all 1 had taken for the last 16 months was poison,
then pressed him lor a true statement of my case, and he
ery reluctantly informed me that 1 was suffering from
Jloerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite In-
mrable. During the time 1 was attended by the above
looters, 1 was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
ungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
/our advertisement and decided to consult you, which 1
lid in March, 1886, when you greatly astonished me by
nforming me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
vlthout your having sounded or examined me. But my
ißtonlshment was greatly increased when you told me that
/on could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
vhioh I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces Of
ikln from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand |
tut after this crisis 1 commenced to improve very test.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
sntlrely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
» result which my friends considered little short of mlra-
sulous, as all expected 1 would soon die : and from that
Ume (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) 1
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I oan do as good and
as hard a day’s work as 1 ever did. lam sure that people
llseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
lie.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK B. B.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhops.
Declared before me this 6th day of August, 1880, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
MT All Consultations Sheen. H
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost Is Incurred in the event of Dun
no* sum* Kffiotbu.
G A 8
Q A 8.
G A B.
Proteat yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 118 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manages,
Offise Hours; tto 5, and 9tol on Saturdays.,
CORRESPONDENCE
“ H.W,” (Tasmania) : Thanks “ Bcoz”:
Thanks for clipping “J.C.” (Melbourne); Yes, that is
what It must have been...‘A. Oar tribulations !...
“J.8.M.”: Thanks “Bumbora”: thanks for clip-
pings “ J. J. O'Connor ” : Bring your complaint under
the notice of the Minister for Lands, and then inform us
of the result “E.S.A. 1 ’; As there have been 258 Popes
df Rome and only one John Haynes, we don't suppose it
worries the Kyaidinal much “W. Morres": (1) Yea,
(2) No one has yet accused England’s Royal Family of being
‘‘So English, you kn0w.’’.....“ J W.E.P.” (Brisbane):
Under the Innkeepers’ Act the lanllord is not responsible
unless the valuables are placed in his custody..." W.E.” :
YeS-just as the best way to stick to a Government billet
in N.S. Wales is to he hopelessly in debt to some influential
money-lender “S.A.S.”: The bathetic “loyalty” of
the Sydney Art Society is, after all, not to he wondered at
They have a very n atural obj £ ct> on to “ Cat ting the painter.”
. ...“W.C.” (Yerong Creek): Seems to be a very ordinary
etory of an ordinary person who passed valueless cheques
in the ordinary way. Where does fhs point of the tale
come in? “More Disgusted”: The priest who raises
Cain at a funeral over some point of efquelta no larger
than a bean is a very common animal. It is no good
writing to the papers about him—he doesn’t care a cent.
If the men of N.S.W. have not pluck enough to throw an
ecclesiastic over ths churchyard fence for insulting the
relatives of the dead, they deserve to have their own dust
kicked around in ihe same manner when their turn
comes. And as to tha current idea that an ecclesiastic is
a brute who refuses to say pray era over the corpse of tome
member of his flock who during life was recalcitrant,
people should remembar that if they belong to a church
of any kind thay are bound by its rules, however good or
had these rules maybe, just as their ministers are. If
thay don’t comply with the rules they must take the con-
sequences. The remedy is completely in their own hands.
If they don’t like the church regulations Ist them set up a
nev church of their own. Sentiment won’t mix with logic ..
“ Walter B. ’ (Adelaide): Toe History of Botany Bay can
be procured from Neville and Co., Adelaide “J.S T.” :
Yea: it will be regarded as a political matter ; as a civil
servant you’d better stand aside “E. Mason ’: If, as
you say, a court-martial is necessary every fortnight or so
to try some one or other of the 200 members of the New
South Wales Permanent Force for some offence or other,
the force must be governed by Draconian laws, or else
they must be a lot of nhe youths “Yanga”: The
Bulletin is not in favour of local bodies having control
over the police-force, any more than it would be in favour
of local bodies having control over the judges or polios-
magistrates. In Tasmania the system of local police-
control produces scandalous results. Just imagine such a
body as the butchers and publicans of the Sydney Cor-
poration being the masters of the local police! No
citizen’s soul would be his own, nor would it be possible
for a policeman to be anything better than a miserable
worm “ W.M.W.” (Broughton, Victoria): Good. Will
you kindly send your full address?....“ J.S.”: Have sent
second copy. If both come to hand, kindly re-pc st
“Lwinia Virgo’ : Can’t touch it. Why not bring it
under the notice of the N.S.W. Attorney-General?
“Quaestor” (Port Macquarie): We do net know„..
“Vulcan” (Mount Albion); You have no remedy, and
will require to commence de novo. However, you shoull
see that the matter is fully ventilated in court. You
have been robbed by a lawyer, an 1 you should let tbe
public know it “DC.” (Perth, W.A.): The magis-
trate at Perth is quite in error. Assaults on Chinese are
punished with even greater seventy in Eastern Australia
than similar offences against white cifzens... ..“T.P.”
(Bay of Islands): Thanks for letter. No newepiper came
to hand.—[Many letters held over.]
Taxable teas —absentees.
John Brown has been dead six years.
List half year profits of the Bank of
England were £763,C00
At latest dates the Princess of Wales had
a slight cold in the head.
The Salvation Army holds freehold properly
in Australasia to the value of £90,000.
From Melbourne Age :—“ Lost a magpie,
says: ‘Mine’s a beer! Finder rewarded’—etc.
We know the owner. His add rets is at the
Rechabite Society’s rooms, and he is the chief
shining light.
L tatyear 3400 nissionaries were maintained
in India at a coat of £700,000 They succeeded in
“converting” one Hindoo in every million, the
cost of each conversion thus being £BO ss. 3d. It
was the collection-plate threepence that did ib.
Genius, like gout, often misses one gene-
ration. A mild old gentleman, who is the son of
a celebrated philosopher and the father of a cele-
brated composer, recently remarked with some
pathos:—“l should like to know who I am?
When I was young I was always known as the son
of my father. Now lam old lam always known
as the father of my son.”
Thus the Immaculate Argus starts a lead-
ing artiele ;—“ The particularly brutal murder of
the Chinaman, ‘Ah Gay Ong,’ in the streets of
Melbourne is, after all, not to pass unpunished.”
You can’t punish a murder. It is physically im-
possible to“give the gory tragedy seven years’ hard
labour, or fifty lashes, or to place it under solitary
confinement for the term of its natural life. Who-
ever hejrd of giving a dastardly crime forty
shillings or one month ? The fatal event cannot
enter into its own recognisances to come up for
judgment when called upon. No, the Argus was
drivelling as usual.
Australian mining swindlers are up to
nearly every dodge under the sun, but here is a
distinctly English scheme that has not yet been
worked here. Lately a broking firm drew a hun-
dred cheques, each for the sum of £540, all made
out in the same name and duly crossed, and sent
them out to a hundred different investors. With
each cheque a notice was enclosed to the effect,
“ this is in settlement of your profit on your share
of £5O in our syndicate 1000. ’ The following day
the recipients of these cheques received a telegram
from the same firm, saying : “Cheque sent to you
yesterday in mistake. Please return.” And
when the firm prospeotused syndicate 1007 they
were fairly swamped with applications for shares.
The Coming Empire.
Dicar Bulletin,— You are great on the “Imperia
theme ” (though you will excuse me if I venture
to hint that you scarcely seem to grasp the full
“grandeur of the Imperial idea”), but not so
great as one MacPherson, or person of that ilk,
who has just “thrown ” the Melbourne Age, and
though the latter “ milled ” him considerably, it
came out of the scrimmage pretty well
damaged. You, my dear Bulletin, will not
be surprised to hear of the latest of England’s
annexations ; the MacPheeson tells us the has
annexed the ocean, and new the “British Em-
pire ” may be said to be consolidated within a
ring-fence” In the eiurse of the “mill” he
threw at the head of the Age the names of some of
England’s greatest Democratic Imperialists to wit,
RoseSeby, Brasset, Chamberlain and DiLke,
two aristocrats, a courtier Radical, and a renegade
Republican No wonder the Age threw up the
sponge ! Allow me in your valuid columns to
make the victory complete, and as the Prussians
are said to have done at Waterloo, convert a rout
into a stampede.
> • *
Up to the present time we have no instance of a
I Democracy achieving anything beyond the build-
ing up of a great State, to become the inheritance
of some mighty monarch and a great and chi Va-
l( rous aristocracy. Procfsof this readily occur to
the mind : the Hebrew Democracy, as toon as the
} conquest of Palestine was completed and solidified
| became the inheritance of Solomon the Magni-
ficent ; Athens and Corinth fell to the Macedonian;
Rmeto “ young Octavius and to follow the
analogy the great Democratic Republic of modern
times will, undoubtedly, become the prize of seme
future great military hero. It is plain—there is
no augury in it—to any student of history that
the only enduring form of political institution is
the aristocrat! i-monarchical, which, in its highest
development, becomes Imperial. Consequently,
Impelial Federation is not only desirable , ib
is inevitable Imperialism means Integration.
Synthesis.
• • •
But though Imperialism is undoubtedly our
destiny—as it has been the fate of all Democracies
-it will not be in our day. Australia and Canada
have, as the Age eloquently puts it, “to ad-
vance ” When they shall have become mighty
nations, whose people will be “like unto the sands
of the sea shore for multitude when a rich and
virtuous aristocracy shall have sprung from their
loins ; when, like their ancestors, they shall have
demanded their “ kings ” —and who so eligible ai
tbe grandsons or descendants of our good and
gracious Queen, who so worthy to receive the Im-
perial diadems of Australasia and Canada?-when,
I say, there shall be an Emperor of Britain —the
Emperor of Empirors—united in an interesting
bond of brotherhood with the Emperor of India,
Emperor of Canada, and Emperor of Austra-
lasia; then will Imperial Federation be in-
deed “un fait accompli ” —a glorious and
mighty fact. Such an Empire, in close
alliance with cur “kith and kin £ cross the
sea,” under the Imperial sway of probably a scion
of the thrice Imperial House of Brunswick, will
cotquer the world, and standing on the uttermost
confines of it, will weep aloud for more plane!s
to conquer; for, shall we not march shoulder to
shoulder, from victory to victory, until the whole
earth shall be ours, under one Imperial crown, in
one Imperial federation—the Land and the Sea;
and the mighty head of Imperial grandeur shall
be bailed by all men, white, black, and yellow—
the Emperob of the Planet ! There will be no
Kingdoms left on earth, all having been swallowed
up in the tremendous maw of Empire ; nothing
but the Kingdom of Heaven tributary to the Em-
pire of Britain — Democrat.
Melbourne, April 15, 1889,
Mr. Gosshen’a new budget proposes addi
tions to the Beer Tax and Death Duties. There
is an established connection between malt liquor
and mortality.
An old Irish judge on the Northwestern
Circuit loved the hunting-field more than he did
the sleepy court room. Bis clerk was like minded,
and a joyous pair th 3 y made. One fine morning
the clerk whispered to the judge: “Yer honor,
old Billy Duane’s meet’s to-aay at Balljkillmulli-
gan; an’ they’ve a fine dogfox ” “How many
names are on the docket ? ” asked the judge,
excitedly. “Twinty, for rioting and braich of
pace, yer honor?” “Tim,” said the judge, “do
you think you can get the first fellow to plead
guilty without a jury trial, and me to let him off
with a week in jail ?” “ The aisiest thing in the
world,” answered the faithful clerk. “Make
baste, then and bring the whole gang; and, I say.
Tim, tell Jerry to saddle the mare meanwhile.”
The twenty prisoners were brought into court—a
defiant gang—nineteen of them prepared to fight,
with counsel and jury, to the bitter end. The
twentieth had been interviewed by the clerk. He
was called. “ Guilty or not guilty of the crimes
charged ? ’ demanded the judge, with a propitious
smile. “ Guilty, yer honor ; heavea help me ! ”
said the crafty prisoner. “ Well,” said the judge,
glancing benevolently about the room, “I fancy I
can let you off wish a week.” The man thanked
the judge and stepped down. There was a terrific
cessation among the other defendants, noae of
whom expected to get off with less than five years
in limbo. Here was a chance to profit by “ his
honor’s ” pleasant mood. One and all manifested
an earnest desire to follow the example of their
comrade and acknowledge their crimes in a batch.
“ D j you all plead guilty ? ” demanded the judge,
eagerly. “Wedo ! ” shouted the enthusiastic
nineteen in chorus. “Fourteen years’transport-
ation apiece,” exclaimed the judg% with a click of
the jaw; “Jerry, is the mare saddled yet?”—
Exchange.
The verb “to Plgott ” has already found
Its way into English parliamentary debates.
Theatrical Manager: “I’m terribly pinched
for money. The chorus is beginning to kick.”
Backer ; “ We'l, isn’t that what they are hired to
do ?’’—Life.
Hume Black, Queensland Minister for
Mines, is ceasing to identify himself with the
tu-rar planters. Hi) future political career will be
do vn South.
Y ars ago, writing on the fate of Talbot
the informer, Pigott thus unconsciously prophesied
the verdict of mankind upon his own unbonoured
memory The odious character of the mur-
dered man, and his unparalle’ed duplicity caused
many moderate politicians to look upon his fate as
an example of political justice which was not out
of harmony with the fitness of things.”
This month’s Centennial Magazine
(Sydney) contains a couple of portraits of Premier
Parkes. As The Bulletin generally contains a
couple of portraits of Parkis we consider that
the policy of the Centennial tends in ths direc-
tion of an infringement of our copyright. The
first of the two portraits in question is a repro-
duction of Mr. JuJan A«hton’s recently-painted
oil picture of the ancient NSW. political warrior.
The old man wears about his head and face so
much hair that he has apparently found it neces-
sary to build up the appearance of his body pro-
portionately, but he seems to have gene consider-
ably over the line in the matter of coat; the
portrait, in fact, represents him as consisting
chi fly of coat. We have often wondered who
was his tailor. The second porbraid is entitled
‘ Henry Parkes in 1850,” and represents Henry
as a pawky-looking, beardless, overgrown school-
boy, and he was by no means a schoolboy in 1850,
for at that time he was about 35 years of age.
The well-advertised saleo! a million carats
of South Australian alleged rubies to Mr. Streeter,
the London jeweller, for £5, and their public re-
sale by Streeter for £lO, was a move designed to
kill the South Australian “ruby ” boom, and to
facilitate tbe floating into a big company of
Sti ester’s interest in the Bunn oh ruby-mines.
The available shares in the latter enterprise were
applied for several times over.


.BARBERS*
SOFTLY HOUSE.
—Hairdressers —
If you want EVERY or any REQUISITE for
Fitting out or Famishing your Saloon,
APPLY TO
CRAIG & AITKEN’S
H, S, Wales Barbers' Supply ioa;e,
Where you can get , at lower prices than
at any other House in the Trade : —
Hairdressing Chairs,
Shampooing Apparatus,
MIRRORS, HOT WATER URNS,
Brushes, tombs, Scissors, Razors,
BROWN & SHARPES HAIRCLIPPERS,
CREAM OF LIMES (in Bottle & Bulk),
SPRAYS, ANTIQUE ©IL,
COSMBTIQUES, POMADE HONGROISB,
And Every Other Necessary .
~ ~ + ■ *
American Hairdressing Chairs, from £5
Colonial „ from £2 10s.
SOLE AGENTS for the CELEBRATED
“ Plum ”
W RAZORS and SCISSORS H
Complete Saloon Outfit
FROM £lO UPWARDS I
! + *+!“
Assistants Engaged for Town A Country
Customers*
Craig & Aitken,
Wholesale Tobacco & Cigar Merchants
And IMPORTERS,
Beg to call the attention of COUNTRY STORE-
KEEPERS and TOBACCONISTS to their
Prices, which will compare favourably with any
in the Trade.
All the Leading Brands of
Tobacco, Cigars and Cigarettes
IN STOCK.
♦
SOLE AGENTS fob this
ARMY & NAYY
TOBACCO * CIGARETTES,
Vulcan Pipes & Tobaccos,
AND
MI SWEETHEART CIGARETTE.
An Immense Assortment of every kind of
Pipes, Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking
Sticks, Cutlery, etc., etc.
Silver-mounted Meerschaum and Briar Pipes
tap- A BARGAIN.
Bend for our Price List and judge for yourselves*
Note Address—
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Tobacco Cigar Merchants,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET
(next to Priddy & Co., The Hatters),
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Advb. from a London paper :
“ A young lady wishes to hear from gentleman possess-
ng a cork leg, a g'ass eye, or false set of teeth, with a
view to matrimony.”
Why all this? you ask. Probably because she’s a
made-up affair herself.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Macoassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthened and beautifler of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children,
Rowlands’Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
In perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Roasi len, Madeira,
Muscat, T kay, &o. Urn quailed High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hocktkgs of 410 O serge-street, utder
Marshall, chemist, tear Kiog-slreet.*
JUST PUBLISHED
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Abthue Gayle.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED
BY
“ The Bulletin’s" well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Price ... ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, is. 3d. (except Queensland.)
BOLE AGENT FOB QUEENSLAND !
J H. THOMPSON, Bookseller,
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Er* C 3! FY
■ Sp«5 CL I
o
$
&
g)
&
*
<y
g>
O
*
<d
v
&
&
&
&
0
*
&
&
o
o
v
*
£
&
r.
‘O
*
*
o
£
o
*
o
5C
o
v
s.
O
o
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEH?
la the English Bill, proposing to legalise
the sale of horseflesh, “horseflesh” includes the
flash of asses. That intelligence is appetising.
Those effusive employes, many of them
with axes to grinds who start to cheer when Mr.
Eddy, the N.S.W. Chief Commissioner for Rail-
ways, alights at up-country stations, get nothing
for their zeal. Mr, Eddy intimated to a friend
lately that these are the very employes he
would expect to And working to get up a cabal
against him. He accordingly at present sniffs
when the cheer ascends, but intends to sniff louder
if the practice be continued.
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application-sure ia efbet. Tola is the oily
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
ail kinds of insects, while it ia perfectly harmless to an’ma
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination cf Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing eff a pleasant odour
are at ths sane time mesi destructive to them. Said in
Is boxes by all chemists and stoivksepeis. Manufaclured
only by W. Williams. Pnarmaoeutioal Chemist, 257 King-
sireet, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elii t Bros.,
and E. Prorser & Co."
y&n
“ They Jit perfectly, and ai e
far superior to ail the other
Corsets I have tried."
(Signed) Marie Rcte.
™ Y & N
PATENT
Seas Corset
Will not qplit in the Seams nor
tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y&N
_ Corset stamped" Y&N Paten
Diagonal seam Corset, No. 110,” in oval.
Three Gold Medals 11
laid by all Draper* and Ladles Outfltten
JB2O BVCKBOAKB Bocdiic
£2O
Regular shipments of the Best Bnokboard
Buggies In the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 61n. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buokboards with pole,
&0., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash i or
anger’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggc
Road, Brisbane (South).
Brittenberg ac 00.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Cbabbnob Stbbbt, Wtntabd Squabi.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &0., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
ALLAH A. MARSHALL A CO.
BNaiNEBBB, OOPPBBSMITHB, BBABB AND B»ft FOBNDBBB,
aroma, Pwmbibs, Qabiittebb, Ship & Genbbab Smiths, Abt ft Medieval Metal Wobkhrb
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
/ulty'a Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already In use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Taoht and Boat Work of every description In
(<» os Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
Ml ACCOM WSUR, » Muis«ri« PteN, Sydney, and Stanmere Bead, Petersham.
Jc33.es’ He’wisc.gr
_ FOB THE BOOT AMD TAILORING TRADES,
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now perfected , the NEW No. 3 and No. 4 MACHINES on an entirely New Sys'em,
STOCK JUST LANDING.
f&BLEICB, BETTBEIIi I Co., Taaneri and Leather Herchante,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
m Bole Agents tor the above tor New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In
imported Leathers. &•- 1 and of the following Special Lines j. FIERI
NUBIAN BLACKING. Tanners Tools and Material*. Indent*
til Details, Including Machinery.
.ESS GLOSS. SATIN POLISH
ex eon tod on Favourable Terms
DR. RICHARDS.
OM
nsult
IjCO
I
'RICHARDS
D*
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading college*
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
Insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment
in the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness dur-
ing the day, circles around the eyes, Giddiness,
Irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfullness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot honourably mairy, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, and other symptoms
which lead to insanity and death, should consult
him, for he has mastered these difficulties. On
receipt of 6d. in stamps he will send secure from
observation in a plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY, Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment,
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any cir-
cumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
eases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
(off Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
Consultation Fkii.
FATE AND LACE WORK
Op course I loved him (One. two. three,
And slip the (ourth.i Dear fellow' yes*
lie fairly worshiped nit (Now look,
This time yon rake <wo stitches less )
Qiiite*tall, well-built; his eyes were gray —
(You-pull that thread the other way.
Two loops ) A timple m his chin,
•The swectesi hail (My clcai ibserve |
lie was a poci. (This begins
The second row. and makes the curve j
/'m sure you'd like to (cad the rhymes
He wrote me. (’Round, the edge, three .uuev)
Torn boyt His tatc was aery sad.
He died quite young, \ Another one
But noi so tight ) It broke my heart.
(There, rhat is very nicely done.)
tic was my tirsi love, and*— my last
Be careful, dear; don’t go so fast.}
My husband? Oh. the kindest soull
\ met him (now, the pattern shows!)'
In Europe We were married there;
And — oh, ygell, yes! — as marriage goes,
I ’m happy (Keep the thread quite straight,
Or it will tangle.) Such is fate!
p,*» I
teurmUKcs |
I ;,i nftx^
m
H
Madiline S. Bridges.
—FUCK.


Business Amioanoeinenis ,
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Pitt Street
GBD. GBD. GBD.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
Tha Hast Bn the World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Mu Mliekiill & M,
CLARENCE STREET
E P PS’S
Grateful —Comforting
COCOA
fdd
Fashion,
If IT, and
Finish.
JUDGE FOR YOURSELVES I
We have in Stock
AND
Make to Order
THE FINEST
lasi Sewn Seels anil Shoes
AT PRICES
THAT
Defy Competition !
A Visit will Prove the above Assertions.
IBE CO-OMWE SOST MU CO.,
37G GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite David Jones and Co).
Australian Roller Flour &. Grain Stores,
GRANVILLE.
Sydney Office: 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Streel).
BRUNTON’S
Patent —E ol ler—Flour
awarded
The Highest Order of Merit
At every Competition, and “ Special Recom-
mendation” of the furors of the Melbourne
International Centennial Exhibition, 1888-9.
JMPERIAL HOTEL
EBnr PARK,
William Toon ... Pbopbiktob,
This First-class Hotel, close to Beach, has every
accommodation. Shower and Plunge Bath. Good
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits only Stocked. WILLIAM TOON.
AT the Federal Help Company, WANTED
General Servants, Cooks, Nurses, House’
maids, &c.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices: 72 Elizabeth street, near Hunter-
street.
J. STRAFFORD DIXON,
Secretary.
d
ďf
.a &■ -■
rl
m
E 2
PETTY'S FAMILY HOTEL, York Street, Sydney.
-?:S"
£T LETTERS and TELEGRAMS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. ■»
31eir©xxd.on. Hotel, :L/£st:n.l3r.
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
: x:
i T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
/\ served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Unner, you can enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ]
ure also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can os "fibly make one
iomfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic arti Tiro vided. Tabla
la H6tf at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. KiliMlNstbb to make her
icitora comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
■re. KILHINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
OW
IL
For
AIR.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and produces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS'
ODONTO.
A PURE, NON-GRITTY Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE *.&*<»
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS'
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
THE
“Plum”
RAZOR.
df
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
FOR PRIVATE USB Is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price—Single Razor,
10s. 6d. ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send F.O. Order.
GRAIS & AITKEMp Potosl Hair Catting Saloon,
—— Nine Haircutters always Employed I
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic «» Stock m Importers,
Kate lichtner & Co., 33 O’Connell Street.
T lOHTNBR & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission Into partnership of Mr. D. 0. KILBURN, and removal Into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET, Between
Hunteb Street and the General Post Office— trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage In the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavons to still deserve their
kind attention In the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
3181 6EOROE STREET. STOREY.
Aunranoe Companies.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000.000
Paid-up and Subscribed £32 000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K C.B, Chair-
man ARTHUR BLACK BT, Esq, F.1.A.,
D c puty - Ch airm an.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest :
For 3 years .. 7 per cent. I For 1 year .. 6 per cent.
For 6 months 4 percent. | 3 months.. 3 per cent
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate
seal of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving
a FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc , Collected.
Estates Sub divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Head Office— lo, &12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. O. NEILD, Manager.
AUSTRALIAN
Mutual Misti
ESTABLISHED 1849-
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq,, M.P., Chairman.
JAS. R. HILL, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
J. T. WALKER. Eeq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Actuary:
MORRIOE A. BLACK. F.I.A.
Secretary :
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
Chief Medical Officer : JAMES O. COX, M.Dt
The Society Is now in its forty-first year, and la
the only Australian Life Office which gives
AWAt BONUSES.
Policies in Force, over
Sum assured (with Bonuses) over ...
Accumulated Funds nearly
Annual Income
Cash Bonuses Divided
Cash Bonus, for one year, 1887
86,000
£38,000,000
£8,000,000
£1,800,000
£3,250,000
£357,000
Policies are NOT FORFEITED if the Surrender
Value is sufficient to pay one Premium..
lev&iawga auraiMßnih
KING’S V ( EWS
Of SYDNEY,
JBNOLAN OAVES, BLUB MOUNTAINS,
&0., &o.|
316 fiEOSBE 51,i Eetwean Mw-tl,, 4 6.P 0.
■ATTHRBALL’H
IDIITIB COlSllTilim
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Event!
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities In
“ Evening News." Address, “ TattersalTs," eare
of George Adams, TattersalTs Olnb, Sydney. Per>
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
“Magic Meal,”
FOR FATTBNING ALL KINDS OF
Stock and Poultry.
Extracts from Testimonials
O. S. Ybo, Esq., Mulgrave Stud Farm, near Windsor I
“ I tried the * Magic Meal ’ on a horse bad with worms
and he seems to be improving fast.”
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon: “
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.”
Robt. A. Hill, Esq., Butterbone, Macquarie River: “I
tried the 1 Magic Meal ’ on a horse which would not fatten,
and now he is in grand condition. ... I consider it
of especial value, as it saves horse eed."
Sold in Bags—7lbs, 35., Ifibs. ss. 6d., 56lbs ,
18s, 6d,, and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0,
Parcels of 561b5., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Oolony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Castlerbaqh Street,
SYDNEY.
Musical. —patent scale indica-
tor, for pupils learning the PIANO.
Price Bs. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of MUSIC,
ss. 6d., posted to the Country from INGHAM’S.
Sydney Aboadb. Country Agents wanted
Stationer’*,


WESTERN AUSTRALIA: The Coming Colony.
NOW ia the time to invest your FEW FOUNDS
$gf TO REAP very shortly your THOUSANDS.
_______ ■_ /-irvTT\ nAat qttVITP and other minerals have been made, and with
The eyes of the World are now on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where "ecent of 0 all on the W. A. Agents (G. W DENT & CO) and
SWSf. wtJe S GIVEN TO YOU. Nunrerou. Properties for Mo to suit LARGE and SMALL
buyers. SYNDICATES, &0., from £10 to £20,000. WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
ST AUSTRALIAN PJtMUJijB
usa ElizeTbetla. Street, Syd-rresr.
THE CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMAL
GAMATING. AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY.
Works : CLYDE, NSW.
Head Officb : 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
PIRBCTORS I
Jambs Fletcher, M.P., Sydney; Gbo. R. Dibbs, M.P.,
Sydney ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney ; T. D Mbrton, CunnirgarWorks, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga ; P. Hann, Wagga.
These works have been erected at large cost for
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description, furnishing gold-saving plant
and machinery, and for the erection and starting
of same, either by sale or upon shares with owners
of gold-bearing properties on arrangement.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
*Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold-saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical laboratory) will be under the imme-
diate direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suc-
cessfully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further information, apply
W. B. FLETCHER.
The Capital City of
WESTERN AUST ALIA.
The Best Investment Going!
GOOD BUILDING SITES
Paddington Estate, Perth.
From Ten Pounds each Lot.
TEN POUNDS! TEN POUNDS!
Only £1 Deposit: Balance in 36 equal Monthly
Payments. DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Early application will secure good Corner Lots.
Western Australia is rapidly progressing and
property is hardening in value.
Buy Now! Buy Now!
And reap Large Profits like early purchasers in
other Australian capital cities.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets post free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
WJ. Douglas ... ... Manager.
ARBENZ’S RAZOR
WITH WARRANTED INTERCHANGE-
ABLE BLADES.
The best, most reliable and easiest Shaver in
the world. Used by Ttddy Wick, the Champion
Barber, who, after his recent great feat in London,
wrote: —“Your Razirs always kept me to the
front during the comp«tition, and yru may be
proud of my well eained victory. They are a
great improvement on the old-fashioned Razors,
and lam delighted with their performances. The
harder the beard the better they shave. I shaved
some nights with th ( m blindfold, and did not cut
one man all the week.
Price, 10s. per set of four ; 14s. per set of seven.
Extra Blades, Is. 4d. each,
t May be had of LICHTNER & SOLOMON
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
H
RIVER, SUMMER
lON.
BANITORIUM HOTEL.
AWKBSBURY
SEASON.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River. . ....
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished; boating and fishing; three-
quarters of a mile frjm the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, So.
For the convenience of pat - ons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on re ceipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on We shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor,
The Uo-ktralian Investment, Finance
AND
LAND COMPANY (Limited.)
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,000
Head Office s • 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman —HENßY GORMAN, Esq , J P.
Vice-Chairman — F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office: • 31 Lombard Street E.C,
Chairman— Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M P.
This Company was established in 1881, and, as
the result of wise and enterprising management,
has won its way to the front rank amongst Invest
ment C ompanies.
The amplest security is offered to Depositors,
inasmuch as the Company has large and valuable
city rent-producing properties, besides its well-
known suburban estates, which are mostly within
a very short distance of important railway stations.
Deposits received in large or small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the
current rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES, Mansger.
NERVOUS MEN
fSMiWk'
1/;
v(\"eureka yy\*m
k,-'///ELECTRIC BELTiVIiS
wjjjjgA/ /v^
ihs
i;fya
s
\n
Sr-*
/V\
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL,
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM
Complete wilh Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 am
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cun
NERVOUS DEBILITY. Seminal Debility, Impotence
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. ains in th
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney am
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervou
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt b
the wearer. It his great improvements over all othc
belts, We are willing to furnish those belts on 30 day;
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them
selves what wo represent them to be. Those belts an
made for the specific purpose of producing a eontinuou.
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strengtl.
even the worst case permanently cured in three months
It is more convenient to wear than any other Bel
A Book illustrated, containing full information and test:
monials from prominent people throughout Australia
and informing persons how they may obtain these bel*
without paying for them until they have proved them com
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous Bystem, will b<
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp to:
postage.
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY.
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydnky.
CONSULT
] y OORE & H ogg
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases off the Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1 CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
’ and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
CONSULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
pAOIFIO ISLANDS EXPEDITION.
A first class Fast Sailing Vessel, with good accommoda-
tion, will leave Melbourne on or about the 20th May, under
the command ol Capt. Hays, an experienced South Sea
navigator, r ' n a
[PROSPECTING a~d EXPLORING
EXPEDITION
to the
SOLOMON ISLANDS, SUDEST, NEW GUINEA,
And the o*ih»r nrexplrred islands in the
WESTERN PACIFIC.
Gold.'nioki 1, and other minerals, have been found at
nuny cf these places. Extorsive deposits exist at same
parts, but no attempt has hitherto been m:de to work
them. The object of this expedition is to acquire the
tight of working these deposits. There is room for a
limited number of desirable men to jcrn tb» expedition,
which will t e under the joint charge of a ge logical sur-
veyor and an c ffleer who has had three years’ expene cs
amongst the islands. The lands acquired, together with
the minerals procured and other profits of the expedition,
will be for the benefit of the whole party, by deed of
agreement. Apart from the objects of the expedition, an
opportunity is offered of seeing “the beauties ef the
South Seas," without doubt one ef the most ntareeting
and richest spots of the world. For further particulars
and cost of joining applv to the Sfiomon Islands Trading
and Planting Co., Ltd., 50 Tempie-oourt, MtDourne, or
to the agents cf the company, GRETG and MURRAY,
Ld , Queen street, Melbourne.
The Imperial Land, Building I Deposit Co,
(Limited), N S.W.,
HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS, 171 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Managing Directors:
Alkx. Milsop, Esq , J P . Chairman
n L SuMMRRFiRT-n, Esq. Wm Martin, Esq., J.P.
E. V. Manning, Esq. Wm Bvrnbs, Esq.
General Manager:
William P. Smairl, Esq., J.P.
This Company undertakes all usual Banking and Build-
ing Society Business on the most favourable terms.
Fixed and Current Deposits received and Int rest allowed
at the following rates; —12 Months, 7 percent, (1 Months,
6 per o»nt., 3 Months, 5 per cent Advance s to Mum-
cipilittes on th? Sec rity of rates rn very liberal terms.
On City, Suburban, and Country Properties at lowest
onrr.nt rates. Liberal a'sistanoe givrn to build or pur-
chase. Annuit.es purchased or advanced on. Mortgages
guaranteed, the punctual repayment of interest,_ or
principal, or both. D.vidends collected in the United
Kingdom or the Colonies. Communications addressed
to the General Manager will receive prompt attention.
FOR SALE —Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
ONLY *
%
A
JfAN V
Murder!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest of selected Virginia
crops by F. W. Saywkll, of 6
Park-street, it will
Arrest
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure Brands now cn
the market. Buy a block, tmoke
it, and you will avoid the nume-
rous poisons
Imprisoned
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, and obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Retail from
F. W. Saywell &. Co.,
6 Park-street, Sydney.
American Hotel
/ Corner of George Street (
\ atd Queen's Place, f
SYDNEY.
J. B. BE\JA.ni\, Proprietor.
The American Exchange
Hotel, which has just been
opened, is situated in the heart
of the city, and in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks,
Exchange, Post Office, Govern-
ment Buildings, etc , etc.
The BEDRCOHS ventilated, and
furnished very handsomely,
equal to any hotel in Australia.
The DITO-ROOH t
spect and worked on the Ameri-
can principle.
Drawing, Smoking,
AND
Heading Rooms.
Full particulars as to Tariff, &c„
may be obtained on application
at American Exchange Hotel.
Telegrams and Communications
promptly attended to.
r^ 7
;ppi?S S®Wi!
■a
■■
r.■
I'V'l 'ln
■liliSßl
m
.
■
- • - .
m
Myyrm‘l iniil.lnili, .
i," W i
|:
1 1 -
■Mif-'S', , f ;|||| |
vs. i (
/ jl
llJlfli
111
r ■
, ,ii«-
EI£OtAID fHOTO-ENC. CO-. 8 •BBIDCE-ST.i SYDNEY
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor,
E-
A\IC
*
LEA & PERRINS'SAUCE
Jn consequence of Imitations of THE WO RCES TER SHIRS
SAUCE .which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea,and Perrint
have Jo request that Purchasers sqe that the. Labels on j every bottli
bean their Signature thus —
Os
without which M bottle of the, original, WOR CESTERSIJIRM
'SAUCEJs gertuini\ f '
fAsi foT-LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
'Stopped Wholesale and for. Export * by the\ Worcester Croistand
0 Blackwell, London, (rc.. 6rel~; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the (Vofid^^


Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY IS MARGARET STREET
(Bstwsen George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Phyaloim, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Oase ta, January list, 1888; also New South Wales
Gaaette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to toe study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four rf fiese were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, « hioh enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. Alt applying to
htan will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ; no Mercury used. He will guaranty e
a positive cure In every case he undertakes, or forfeit
ASOO. His reason lor doing po is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing bat an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a oonglom ration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is bo reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
Me wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power*
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHRONIC and
SPECIAL DISEASES or MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treat ment will
■ot In any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Spbkr, H D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Mreets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.m. ; 2 to 4 and 7 to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
... mrANTS INVALIDS
Has an ENORMOUS SALE in England, and
is now being introduced into the colonies.
Kvery Storekeeper should, get a supply
M every wise mother will certainly
use it.
Dr. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
IFE PRESERVATION
BY
Dr. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Street East, Melbourne.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
On health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS
DEBILITY and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy
of this book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six
Penny Stamps. Address —
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street, Sydney.
EuCALYPTt. 0
fIJLEMAMEiSOKS
111
THE TREE OF LIFE.
mes&sfcss-
Victory Ointment^
The only pure Eucalypte In th« World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot-227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Medical.
a mmm medicine.
Beecham’s Pills
CH
PATENT
PILLS
&
3
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiven ess,
on the skin; -iitstMri.ed
sleep, frightful drbfiipiS',
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any pate it
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and »• ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beboham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the ' most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
If
1EYOUS
DEBILITY.
Consult by Letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addressed id. stamped envelope, forward advice
and his Medical Book Free. Address—
Herr RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, Q.P.O., Sydney, N.S.W.
T
O
SUFFERERS.
Consult Personally or by Letter
Cowan & Anderson,
Eclectic Physicians,
On all Chronic Diseases.
They Treat and Cure all Chronic, Nervous, and
Special Diseases of both sexes on the ECLEC-
TIC PRINCIPLE.
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in alt cases.
N.B.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation
and securely packed, to all parts of the Colonies,
Note the Address:
COWaJS & ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary,
182 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
A Wonderful Discovery
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
This valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure Swelling an,
Sandy Blight, Inflamed Eyes and lids, IMmn. ■
of Sight, etc. It will be found very beneficial and ooohn.
to those who have weak eyes, or whose work compels then
to strain their eyes-l. Highly recommended by the leadm;
Oculists.
t The public are requested to notice tit
OaUtlOn I « ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE
LOTION,” with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ROSS'S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION
Not for Bose Eye liotlon,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmec*
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading tht
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
B A, ROSE, Distensinv i toficte? Chemist,
581 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Honan.
Established 1858. (By post, 3s. 6d.)
HT Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’SRGOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Ask
JUST PUBLISHED
A most Unique Work on
MEDICAL. SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains information most valuable in Ner
fous and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rule
ire worth its weight in gold. Send youi fnl
iddress, and we will send Post Free One Copy
riven away for the next Six Months Only. Writ
io Professor R. T. SELBY, Cleveland Street
Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
■3
r .
mi e)
—We Can Recommend—
B. EUGENE’S
(from Paris)
LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most Central and Well-Appointed
of any in the City.
P" WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK. H
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
Note the Address:
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reser.e Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can he ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all binds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address : 53 SYDNEY ARCADE.
" Tor framiEg a Picture Heat aid Well,"
D
BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George Street (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
fee,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges,
pecial attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &o.
Cooperage :
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
d
THE BEST
IN THE VmiD
5=5
AKINC
fri
PO
* „'. MANUFACTURED BV _ ojv'
.'. Jj!M£S CHANNOfr JMarhovrS*
* Jeld Ur all &oC*'Xj4 < S/are*e*/>fso__ '
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST - QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents :
BALCHIN, JOHNSTON u! Co„
Commercial Chambers, Bond St., Sydney.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE RtO.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame*
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SUL bIVAN’S,
841 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts. ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
fSJL
2J
MANUFACTURERS ||
A IMPORTERS OF^
, -I—*A* *-»
HATS CAPS
4JB CEORCE ST
3VDNEY %
0/ooffsiCe LtusttCers
&■
d
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AIL THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition — Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Hotels.
Comley’s Hotel,
EMU PARK, ROCKHAMPTON.
FRED. COMLET ... PeoirarroB.
ACKNOWLEDGED the Finest Hotel on the
Coast. Overlooking the Bay, with every
Convenience. Dining Hall 60 z 40.
CONVEYANCE MEETS EVERT TRAIN.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bonrke Street, East,
This well-known Sporting Honse Is conducted
In First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.
FOR SALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivera. Apply
Bulletin Office.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30b. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Near TattenaU’s.)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather.
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
ISgr LONDON FASHIONS *^|
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
MASON BROTHERS,
MB
lr%
(limited,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN AND CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. R, LARKI
IMPOBTEB OF
*sr WINKS, SFIKITS, BBBRS 8c 0., &0. «
George and Glpps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W, Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Kartell's and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
KST The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. tST All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Alb and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
<ar SEND EOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' EETkTsH&7 ROOM anl LAVAIOU
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hoedekn & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGK BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOUENE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Company, Limited
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000. Reserve, £270,000.
Wool Season, 1888-89.
REGULAR SALES OF WOOL HELD
THROUGHOUT THE SEASON.
THE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation,
and the Displaying and Protecting all Wools
entrusted to the Company for sale, whether from
large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before
Sales of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool
lien of ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Pro-
duce, whether for sale in Sydney or shipment to
London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial Skins,
Hides, Tallow, &c., held regularly.
Every information supplied on application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loptds Streets.
/GENUINE SWEDISH MADE ‘CROWN
VX BRAND” HORSE iHOE-NAILS
are superior to all others and lower in price.
Samples to be had at any leading Ironmongers,
or from
C. A. FALSTJEDT ,
Sole Agent for Australia,
146 PHILIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the ciivlised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficient action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IP YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nbw Oxford-st., London ggr Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they are
spurious
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANO
AT THB
Wertlieim
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
V 2 O T O R Z -A-
MELBOURNE
II
II
Richmond
Windsob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
EOHUOA ...
BEECH W ORTH
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL
BALE
MARYBOROUGH
Bead Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
New Oofiee Palace, Bourke street.
69 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Ohapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
66 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aeschimann’s.
High Street.
... ... Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Ealry Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
THE
Wo/se/ey Sheep Shearing Machine
PABTOBALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
AGENTS:
T. S. GSI3DES dc Co.,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man’s Watch. Made suitable for Hard Biding and -Hough Wear and specially
rated for the climate. Supercedes all other English Levers ever introd-ua d into thm market.
TO BE HAP FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY "tfcj
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YCRtC STREET, Sy*»>« y .
Perdriau «Sc. Go n
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS, WATERPROOF SHEETING, &c.
TENNIS SHOES and KALIS.
mm rubber mm,m ewe steisi, sydnet,
AMERICAN
WAT
HI
.-i
SIZE
CH CP
f- „TS' de
<^V 43# -
t Pn
om
my-
Mi
;v\ .'
■ •
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IM THE WORLD.
£%• Have obtained GOLD MEDALis and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
.y —-
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout ; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan's Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches w.th the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s ” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are c instructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in w altham, Mass . U.S. v,
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, H. 8. M int assay.
Waltham CheonoghapHs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. he ‘'No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most p -rfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and a 1 the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Waiches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold aovantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
■ a ■■■ ■■
if] SlllHfjH
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY*
