

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
QM
I
0D
Best Timekeepers in tlie World.
* '■ ' v.
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and I 1 IT! ST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed,
against the COMBINED MAKERS OF THE WORLD.
The AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES are constructed upon the soundest principle of horological art
and of the very best materials throughout ; they are adapted to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
. EVERY WALTHAM WATCH is fitted with “ Logan’s ” Patent Breguet Hair-Spring, hardened and tempered in form.
Tins prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other
watches in the world can be obtained with “Logan’s” Celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive
property of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in any part
of the world where Waltham Watches are sold as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham,- Mass., TJ.S. A.
WALTHAM CHRONOGRAPHS, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly-back.
WALTHAM PRESENTATION WATCHES, Unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
WALTHAM RAILWAY WATCHES are used upon the New South Wales Government Railways and all other Colonial
Lines, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
WALTHAM WATCHES. Dust-proof. Water-proof.
WALTHAM NON-MAGNt TIG WATCHES; —Proof against Magnetic and Electrical influences'. The latest discovery
in Horological Science. Awarded GOLD MED L, Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1888-9
W ALT HAM WATCHES are Sold by all Watchmakers and Jewellers throughout the World.
mm
S?
•«***
ants
itS
H J
S2iS
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA,
Messrs. R 088 R T BBESTO KT and O 0.,
WALTHAM BUILDINGS, BOND' STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Modified. Tontine and Mortuary Dividend. Systems.
BONUS YEAH. — Books will be closed on 31st December, 1889, and the Quinquennial Investigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of Bonus
Federated. Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIRCULAB Q/TJ-A. IT, SYIOIETiKIY.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS,
Advances Made and Deposits Deceived at Current Dates. Correspondence Invited.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & GO.,
*
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gaseitters, Art & Medieval Mbtad Workers
ROLLER SRATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
K* tab! I sUed
1843.
J
Established
1845.
INSURANCE COMPANY.
Conducted under the Official Supervision of the Insurance Department of the Government of the State of New York. Reports deposited annually with the Board of Trade in Great Britain
in accordance with “ The Life Assurance Companies Act, 1870.”
Life Assurance Only. Purely Mutual.
All Profits belong to Policy-holders, and Apportionments are made annually.
STATEMENT fob YEAH ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1888
ACCUMULATED FUNDS
SURPLUS over Liabilities by the New York State Standard of Valuation (4 per cent. Actuaries*)
INCOME FOR. YEAR ••••
CLAIMS are Payable in the Colonies at nearest Branch Ice, in sterling, and all lispnted Claims (in case any should arise) in Australia are to be decided by Australian Courts,
The Nonforfeiting’ Free Tontine Policy includes the advantage's of the Tontine principle, of accumulations (securing valuable investment features in combination with ins
low cost), guaranteed options at end of Tontine periods, and perfect freedom after two years as to residence, travel and occupation (except service in war). In case- of death bv s ," ran ® e at
gaging in military or naval service in time of war, the reserve value of the policy will be paid. For full particulars apply to 3 aon °* «a-
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
ZBOTsTX) STZRZEIET SYDNTEY
£19,234,606
£2,'7 t 7'7, i 777
.£5,226,601
The Bulletin
[Saturday, December 28, 1889.


SNOS^NOSXI
!K
i
Mij
03 ovaox
O u £
4
*
o
o
S 3
O
X
O
Po&c
SIR ROGER
hf
£
a
r*
i&ZM
z
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AMD INVALIDS
pr.« a n enormous sale in England
and is now toeing introduced into the
Colonies.
Hiafy Storekeeper should got a supply
mm every Wise mother will certainly
use it,
DK. SEDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON. ENGLAND.
M f
" V
7 •
R^
SBSKSf:
TBUNKSB'C*^
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOE-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
t
Melbourne, 1880
Frankfort, 1881
Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so tha,t the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. P. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
B,
KITTEN BERG & CO.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture , Mirrors , Oleographs , and Mouldings
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
QD1BINE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of M Dealert and of the Manufacturers—
J & E. ATKIKSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, Junr.,
87 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
*WT» TX1.1 BC GFO lx ■> XX t.
NEVER T HAVEL WITHOUT IT.
"WANTED IN EVERT HOUSE.
<
ANIMALS
AitNOXieUSINSE
fleas flics beetles mosqu itoes
COCKROACHES V'V- AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGS
FOWLS OR OTHER SS
t Wsmm
V
si
|H
ť
y
v
■m
Tfr?
m
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
Ij
v;-
tt U-
-911
wrS
AUt
Jtn consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERS .<-■■■ \E
SAUCE which are calculatei to deceive the Public, Lea and Errant
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
hears their ,9- thus —■■
Os
without which no hottle of the, original WOK CESTERSHIPM
SA UCE is genuine.
Aik for LEX and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name-on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
"'kelesaU and p>r Export .by the Proprietors, IVonasur Crotse and
}London, &*e., &re. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World
W XXjIiIAM CAECrILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(/
/|N
D
vl/
✓l\
%%
Offices
r ®?»j^sr r "
.Victoria.
Cbaffey Irrigation O&ces, Swanstoa gtriet
.Soon* AuSYfmtiA.
.Cavendish Chambers, Grenfcff'Shteif,
J, £. Mat hew ViNCßNT.fCkidLswmhslissr)
Cornwall Build mgs. 35 goer* V/crwiM sf.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
Bt. Kilda, Victoria.
Wltiifi Kve Mhmta* ftrom STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATES.
UTRfi kobo MBNG ... ... ••• Proprietress.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
Th« Briffhtoa of Hew South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL; Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dininp Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
Dinner you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here alio you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Pishing and Punic Parties provided. TabU
de H6U at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstkr to make I
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the bmt in the colony.
Mrs.
Clarendon Hotel,
Ofporitb OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JOHN 33 XT 03
449 zunbvth Street, Melbourne.
T-.U, Dnr and Waggon Corn*
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottle*, Oode«. WMb
Rackets, Horse Rugs, Nose Bags, OHed Loin doita. Send
to or call at
448 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
THOMAS M'CREEBYi
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Bath Sexes a Speciality.
Oooeoltatione Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Tbial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
6S Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
if 1 . shiroibidibdb
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Laiies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
t
ţ
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Eefrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Driers intending
to deoeive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refhgerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LBMO3XT SQUEEZERS,
Eros.
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
•9


The Bulletin
Vol. 1C- Ko. SIS.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1889.
FHm, €d.
■. „ , . __
ť
THE GREAT POLITICAL WHAT-IS-IT “ TOES THE MARK.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
:o be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefidly read and acknowledge in the
‘ ‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undo stand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling— which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
ran have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1889.
A Colossal Problem.
“ John Brown’s body lies mouldering in
the ground,” but events go marching on.
The mortal remains of Jeff. Davis, whom it
was the desire of millions of United States
citizens to hang on a sour apple tree, or
upon any other tree that might be handy,
were, the other day, conveyed to their last
resting-place with every testimony of honour
and respect. Twenty years ago the antagon-
ism to the man on the part of the people of
the Northern States of the Union was so
intense that it appeared unappeasable.
Everyone has heard of the extremity of
detestation which found expression in the
declaration by one man that he would not
bathe in the same ocean as the object of his
repulsion. In the days of the civil war it
might have been asserted that John
Brown’s body would not rest in the earth if
Jeff. Davis were buried in it. But time,
the healer and avenger, has softened
animosities and induced reflections. The
American people to-day are not quite so
certain as they were a quarter of a century
ago that the Southern statesmen were in the
wrong in every particular. The emancipa-
tion of the negroes, that magnificent breach
of the Constitution which Abraham Lincoln
dared in the climax of the struggle, has not
turned out as was expected. From a
hundred-thousand pulpits and editorial
chambers the stroke was lauded, not merely
as a mastei’piece of policy, but as an in-
spiration from Heaven. Its essential justice
was asserted. Its coincidence with the
fundamental rights of humanity was in-
sisted upon. It was an exertion of pure
virtue, and the blessing of the Almighty
must attend it. Just at present some re-
actionary sentiment makes itself, for the
first time, apparent. The inquiry is being
demonstratively made whether, after all,
negro emancipation was so sagacious a step,
and whether the blessings of Heaven are
indeed perceptible in its consequences ?
* # #
In a recent issue of The Bulletin was
published an eloquent impeachment of the
long-unassailed doctrine of the wisdom and
virtue of Emancipation. The negro freed-
man has become a menace to the domination
of the whiteman in the North American
Republic. Exercising on an equal footing
the right of manhood suffrage, the negx’o
offspring of the slave already is constitu-
tional master of the situation in two great
States, and in ten years’ time will inevi-
tably predominate at the polls in eight
others. There is no apparent limitation to
this progression. The negro race in the
South is more prolific than the Caucasian in
the North. Unless some of the Malthusian
checks interrupt his fecundity it is merely a
question of time when he will numerically
dominate the Union. The writer whose
views we published discusses various pro-
jects as remedies or preventives against
this appalling possibility. Abolition of the
right by negroes to exercise the suffrage is
one proposal, limitation of the right is
another. Essentially there is no difference
betwixt the two plans. Each would result
practically in the same thing—the re-estab-
lishment in the heart of the great Republic
of a servile race—a race of Helots.
* # #
Wherever there are two races, or even
two classes, within a state or nation, of
whom the one is possessed of political rights
or privileges which are withheld from the
other, the privileged class or race is the
master and the unprivileged is the slave.
This is a maxim which cannot be placed in
too prominent a relief before our readers.
It underlies the purpose of that measure to
abolish preferential multiplicity of voting
privilege, and to leave the franchise estab-
lished on the solid ground of “ One Man One
Vote,” which that keen-minded Radical, Sir
George Grey, has fought for in New Zea-
land, and which the Radical ex-editor of
The Bulletin, W. H. Traill, to-day strives
for in New South Wales. The proposal of
the Southerners, therefore, to limit the
exercise of the franchise by the negroes in
the United States is in no real effect different
from the other proposal to deprive the negro
of the suffrage altogether. The result in
either case would be the re-establishment of
negro slavery in a form really aggravated.
Under the old system the slave-owner had a
direct pecuniary interest in the physical
well-being of his chattel. Under the indirect
system of slavery by political deprivation of
rights, no such interest is maintained, and
the negro slave in America would be sub-
jected to the afflictions which are the lot of
the white slaves of London slums. Reduced
to such a condition they would envy the lot
of their happier forefathers, the slaves of the
times before the war.
* * *
The problem is the most difficult with
which a nation ever has been confronted.
Laissez-faire will not serve. Something
must be done if the United States is to
be preserved to the Caucasian race. With
the negro the American white refuses to
blend. Under the old slave regime this was
otherwise. The very immorality of the sys-
tem served as a safety-valve against the
danger now menacing the nation. The
negroes were becoming whiter, generation
after generation. Every plantation was a sort
of seraglio. A consideiable proportion of the
children borne by slave women had white
fathers. Under conditions of freedom this
process has been reduced to imperceptible
limits. The free negress mates with the
male of her kind. The laws of the States
make intermarriage a crime, just as theft and
violence are crimes. There seems no escape
from the ultimate horrors of a racial war of
extermination. And since blending of races
is prohibited and impossible owing to the
social repulsion between white and black, the
apparent inevitableness of a colour-conflict
to the death is in no material sense affected
by the question whether or not the negro is
susceptible of elevation to the plane of high
Caucasian civilisation and intelligence. If
he be so endowed with capacity for improve-
ment, the issue of the struggle will merely
be more doubtful, and the struggle itself
more severe. It is sufficiently established
that the negro can tight with a boldness and
determination not exceeded by the most
high-spirited among the white races. The
black regiments in Egypt have in modern
times demonstrated that fact beyond doubt
even had the records of ancient history not
told the same story. A remedy, and a
prompt one, must be discovered, if North
America is to escape the convulsive throes
of a racial war. One suggestion has been
made which" appears fairly to meet the
exigencies of the situation. It is that the
United States should purchase Cuba from
Spain and to that island deport every coloured
citizen. This would involve a terrific breach
of constitutional right, and could scarcely
fail to shake the whole structure of society
in the Republic to its foundations. It could
hardly be carried out without precipitating
an insurrection of the negroes. But an
insurrection to-day would be a trifling
evil compared with a negro insurrection a
century hence, when the coloured men had
increased their numbers and perhaps estab-
lished themselves in control of the resources
—legislative and military—of the States
where numerically they would be predomin-
ant. But were Spain to consent to the
sale of Cuba—as it reasonably might, inas-
much as the island has been but an uneasy
appanage —the disturbance could not be con-
fined to the American continent. The dis-
placement of the white population of Cuba
would be an operation of exceeding difficulty
and delicacy. Europe, even, would feel the
vibrations of such a plucking asunder of
ties and interests.
# * #
The whole situation is fraught with mo-
mentous lessons for young communities. It
teaches that the seeds of dissolution may be
planted when there is no thought but of
stimulating material progress. There exists
in Australia at the present day a numerous
class of persons who are ready to favour the
introduction of servile foreign labour. This
class is not readily distinguishable. The
individuals who comprise it have no exterior
characteristics. They belong to no distinct
order. They are simply such as have capital
for investment. By applying to cheap
tropical land, such as is obtainable in
Northern Queensland, in the Northern
Territory attached to South Australia, and
in the northern portion of Western Aus-
tralia, the labour of hordes of cheap Oriental
slaves, there is much profit to be gained.
If unrestrained by the sense and apprehen-
sions of the majority who are not capitalists,
these people carrying to its logical con-
clusion the doctrine of Freetrade, would
to-morrow import swarms of Chinese,
Indian, Japanese, or Cingalese, men and
women, and with their ill remunerated
toil, confer “progress and prosperity”
not on tropical Australia alone, but in a
degree upon every commercial mart in Aus-
tralia. The owners of plantations would
have wealth to spend, and many of them
would spend it in the colonies. The capital
cities, and the health resorts, would enjoy
the distribution of these at present non-
existent treasures. Trade would be stimu-
lated by the demands for machinery and
supplies of various kinds for the plantations.
Nay, the very food-supplies of the white
worker might be cheapened. The budget of a
Macmillion would afford scope for jubilation,
and the statistics of public and private wealth
would provide a flush of delightful figures to
the industrious research of a Pulsford. But
a canker would be established in the core
of this seeming prosperity. Australia would
be progressing—towards a crisis as terrible
as that which to-day looms on the national
horizon of the Republic of the United States.
The Macmillions would be rich beyond the
dreams of avarice and ruin would be sapping
the very foundations of civilisation in Aus-
tralia. If Federation is to be really concerted
presently, this is a subject essential for
deliberation in any convention which may be
assembled. If the rights left to separate
Australian States be not wisely defined and
restricted, we shall surely repeat in Aus-
tralia the calamitous experiences past and
impending of the United States of America.
A State in which the planting and com-
mercial interest wields dominant political
power would, if untrammelled, certainly
legislate in favour of importations of servile
labour. Let this but be effected and per-
sisted in, and as there would be no escape
from the consequences, stern and peremp-
tory insistance should be made in the initial
stages of Federal arrangement, that the
Federal Constitution shall absolutely bar
a folly so destructive.
# # *
There are two races whose introduction
would be especially dangerous. Of these
one is the natives of Hindostan and Ceylon,
because, being British subjects, it would be
equally difficult to limit their immigration
and to deal with them by special laws when
introduced. The other is the Chinese
race. There are dangers attendant in
aggregation of the latter, which are
absent from the negro problem. The
Chinese are subjects of a great and
haughty nation. The rulers of their
native country are yearly awakening to a
sense of their place in the arena of the
world’s politics, and to their rights and
obligations. Already they have evinced a
disposition to emulate the most jealously
attentive of European governments in the
matter of extending paternal care to those of
their subjects who wander in search of
fortune into foreign lands. It is possible
for the United States once more, by an
exertion of violence and a breach of domestic
constitutionalism, to reduce the negroes to
slavery by deprivation of equal civil rights.
There is no government on earth which such
an outrage would directly concern. It would
be different with a horde of Chinese. Their
cries would reach the foot of the throne of
a monarch absolute over more millions
than the Czar of Russia or the Empress
of India. And he might not hear
those cries in vain. The throne of China
may not always be occupied by a tradition-
ridden dreamer. The race which gave being
to a Tiriour and an Attila may yet produce
another such. The future of Australia is
sufficiently overshadowed by the temptation
which the propinquity of her golden shores
and unpeopled acres offers to the first keen-
sighted ruler who may ascend the throne to
direct the fortunes and sway the power of
the myriads of Mongolia. It would not be
sagacious to prepare the excuse for irruption,
by arranging to have in the fulness of time
a swarm of oppressed or aspiring Mongols in
our very midst to invite the help of the head
of their race.
“ The Cloven Hoof.”
“Federation is in the air,” said Lord
Carington the other day in Melbourne ;
meaning, of course, federation of the strictly
orthodox and innocuous description, with no
possible wandering-off into an Australian
Republic, with all the horrible suggestions
anent “cut-painters” and dismissed vice-
regalities, and all other unholy concomitants,
which even to name would, under existing
circumstances, be something more than im-
piously unlawful. “ Federation is in the
air,” but the people who rule the Conserva-
tive roost on the other side of the globe
make the absurd mistake of imagining that
Australia is like England ; that it is sufficient
to say, after the manner of the centurion of
old, “Do this!” for it to become a fact
accomplished. They are great fools, fortu-
nately, these Conservative persons. The Deity,
seemingly, has in this tempered the wind to
the shorn-lamb, and with a cynical appre-
ciation of the beauty of the theory of com-
pensation, nearly always makes the tyrants
mush-headed and silly. If they would only
keep decently quiet for awhile the earth
be their’s. They sow the seed, but they are
too impatient to wait for the harvest. They
pluck up the grains the day after the drilling
to see how much they have sprouted over-
night. The last cable to hand from England tells
of an angry Queen and an outraged Court,
whose nerves, naturally enough, are greatly
unstrung by the speech of their paid servant,
Oarington, at the late opening of the New
South Wales parliamentary session. We
know that this has been denied. These
things always are denied at the eleventh
hour. But the idea of the awkward conven-
tional gentleman who is said to govern a
section of the English Empire, with his
petrified gape of surprise, his weary yawn,
his embarrassed cough, and his self-conscious
blush, being regarded seriously for one
moment in England as the mouthpiece of
Australian Nationalism is so paralysingly
funny that it is a wonder the wires that bore
the message did not burst asunder with
cachinnatory spasms of electric jocularity.
* # *
Bight in the midst of the insane jubilation
which recently greeted the advent of Hope-
toun, fell like a bombshell the full reports of
the speeches, made at the London bancjuet
to that young person, by the accredited
Agents-General of the Australian Colonies,
which for unmitigated drivel and treason to
the countries these creatures are paid to
represent are unparalleled in the history of
political degradation,
* # #
It is with the greatest difficulty that an
Australian can stifle his indignation at read-
ing a cable announcing the fact that a person
paid to attend to his nation’s wants and in-
terests should make a suggestion such as
that contained in the following lines :
Sir F. Dillon-Bell, Agent-General for New Zealand,
said the Imperial Parliament should make it a necessary
condition ere ratifying the Naval Compact with the
colonies that the latter should agree not to secede from
the agreement at any period.
This is the utterance of one of the Agents-
General at a meeting of our foes, Carnarvon
and Clarke, and others of the ilk Imperial,
to arrange for our indefinite continuation as
a vassal appanage of the mongrel British
Empire. In the days of old Rome persons
of this kind were not rewarded for their
treachery by the permitted retention of high
trust and princely allowances. But manners
change with the times, and it is only the
hero and the patriot who receive this world’s
kicks ; it’s altogether a different person who
pockets the ha’pence.
# # #
This cablegram anent the Dillon-Bell
utterance will probably be denied —when it is
recognised as detrimental to the interests of
Imperialism by the clique in England labour-
ing for its realisation. It is a wonder that
Sir Graham Berry has not denied his
speech at the Hopetoun valedictory gorge :
it is a nice problem as to which is the
more unreliable—the cable’s assertions or
its subsequent denials. Things are, how-
ever, progressing rapidly. Sir Dillon-Bell
enunciated the above delightful specimen of
loyalty to caste and disloyalty to his adopted
country at a meeting convened in the in-
terests of Imperialism, at which Carnar-
von—likewise famous for his specious
denials—made some remarks more or less
apropos of the “ mutual duties” of England
and her colonies, in which all the “ mutual ”
falls to the part of England and all the
“ duties ”to her (sic) colonies ! Lieutenant-
General Engineer Sir Andrew Clarke— (of
much alphabetic appendage) delivered
something in the guise of a lecture, and
everybody congratulated everybody else, and
a vast quantity of Conservative mental
punch was drunk, and the proceedings were
deemed “eminently satisfactory” from a
Melbourne Argus, Sydney Morning Her-
ald and Daily Telegraph point of view.
The wicked Australian Republican may now
be regarded as definitely squelched, and the
tom-toms may be drummed with much
jubilation and war declared forthwith !
# # *
The Soudan fiasco was" the outcome of
the pious endeavours of the Australian war-
party, backed up by a band of frocked and un-
unfrocked clerics who laboured indefatigably
to point the British edition of the sword of
the Lord and of Gideon against the dusky
breasts of unarmed and patriotic savages,
for the glory of the nineteenth-century
Moloch of British trade and damna-
tion. The Sydney Daily Telegraph, the
Liliputian Jingo sheet of transplanted Im-
perialism, has for years howled loudly for
grape and chain-shot to be directed against
the French in the South Pacific. The
pseudo - democratic Melbourne Age has
threatened blood and destruction, from time
to time, against Germany in Samoa.
“Federation is in the air!” The Daily
Telegraph’s brand of PARKES-cum-Im-
perialistic - Canada - dominion - copied federa-
tion would give us all that these fireside
warriors have so long sighed for. Then
should we have an army, commanded by an
Imperial general, accountable to some vague
federal council or other, directed from God-
knovvs-where, but very possibly from Knuts-
FORD-controlled Downing-street, pillaging
Noumea, or operating in the mangrove-
swamps around Apia, restoring or deposing
Malietoas innumerable, and sheathing their
swords in recidivistes, or sticking pigs in the
islands of the west? Gloria in excclsis ,
honour, fame, and bunkum ineffable !
m * *
The cloven hoof of Imperialism is veritably
visible through the clinging mire of jour-
nalistic flummery and sentimental drivel at


The gallant General Faidherbe, lately de-
ceased, had, in his day, been a member of a
mutual autopsy society, and as such had made a
contract, by the mere fact of membership, that
his body should be delivered at his death for
nost-moi'tem inquiry. And, therefore, forth came
M. Laborde and claimed the body of the dead
general. This was the first that Mme. Faidherbe
had ever heard of the existence of the society or
of the general’s relation to it, and she was shocked
at the awful suggestion that the body of her be-
loved dead should be mutilated by the anatomists.
She made a great deal of noise about it, and half
France became involved in the debate. As the
surgeon possessed all the manly and gentle senti-
ments of his craft, he yielded the question of right
to the natural sensibilities of _ the bereaved lady,
and so the general was buried in debt to the
society. There is some scientific reason to regret
that the autopsy was not made. General Faid-
herbe had locomotor ataxy, and had been a victim
of the malady for 40 years.
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors
Strictly Original matter contributed to The Bulletin
will be paid for. The Editor will he glad to receive and
consider contributions as under : —
1. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. (Drawings must be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Bristol-board.)
ft. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
S. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred.
/,. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
, r >. Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, SOOO
words. About half that length, or even less, will
be preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, oh One
Side Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. The
name and address of the writer must appear, in all
eases, on the MS. itself, and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Rejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a, stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort will be made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
last! The Bulletin is accused of being
alarmist ! Listen! We are justified by the
“special” message published in a recent
issue of the arch-agitator, the Daily Tele-
graph, the apologist of anti-Gallicism and
South Sea rapine:—
Lieut.-General Sir Andrew Clarke, R.E., G.C.M.G.,
C.B considers that these mutual duties— (i.e.’
between England and the Australias)—consist in a readii
ness on the part of the colonies to assist the Imperial
Government to expel the French from the Pacific if
necessary, and also the Germans, should they attempt to
annex Java.
This will also probably be denied (as
General Edwards’ incautious self-damna-
tory gabble at Brisbane was denied) when it
is found that we are reasonably perturbed
thereat. It is certainly the most artful,
definite and uncompromising utterance that
has yet been enunciated by an Imperial
individual in regard to the “ mutual duties ”
of England and her much-enduring depen-
dencies. Elsewhere, a cable credits Car-
narvon —the man who uttered slanders in
Australia, and was subsequently compelled
to eat his words in England-—with saying
that as the colonies depended for their de-
fence on certain fortifications of the capital
cities, the Australian contingent of the fleet
would not be required for their defence,
and thus could be utilised for the defence of
the Empire ! How lush in our verdancy
these English representatm s of the sang-
azul faction must imagine us !
* * *
Put all these tilings together, Australians.
The late attempt to stir up war against the
French by the same alleged Australian paper
which to-day advocates the Parkesian scheme
of Australian Federation ; the success of
Dalley —the avowed flunkey of Imperialistic
interests in this continent—in launching an
expedition of brigands, in one of Great
Britain’s miserable petty wars against a
savage race—a war of wrong and extortion
at that ; the coincidence of Pakkes' article
in a May number of an English magazine five
or six years ago on England and her colonies,
in which his present dominion scheme
is vaguely, albeit Imperialistically, shadowed
forth ; the shameless insolence of Sir Dillon
Bell ; the servility of the recreant
Graham Berry, and the other “ decorated”
Agents-General at the Hopetoun banquet ;
the Australian peerage proposals of Rose-
bery ; the cable-reported anger of the
Queen and the Salisbury clique at Caring-
ton’s alleged defection ; the impotent
snufflings of Carnarvon, and the plain-
spokenness of Sir Engineer Clarke ; put it
all together and ask yourselves whether
there be not in all this mass of treachery,
deceit, open threats and open violence,
bribery and broken faith, evidence enough
of the existence of a gigantic plot to destroy
Australian independence and to initiate the
reign of “responsibility” and “panic,”
“ war” and “mutual interests ” so dear to
the heart of the snob and the Conservative
who dreams of a Heaven in which all the
archangels speak the English language and
are named Smith, and who confidently be-
lieves that Adam was the first Anglo-Saxon
and that Eve made her debut at a Queen’s
drawing-room ?
* * #
When MTlwraith attempted to seize
New Guinea in defiance of the united Powers
of the world, what a howl of indignation
went there forth at the refusal of the Colonial
Office to sanction the highway robbery !
Whose voice so loud as that of the Sydney
Daily Telegraph ? The world was all too
small for men to live side by side—French-
men and Germans and English ! The rights
of the waterlogged old Empire which was
never known to vail its tops to any other
earthly State, the oaken-bulwarked power
that ruled the waves and all that in them
ever was and, it was fondly hoped, ever
would be, had been insulted. Nothing but
gore could wash the insult out ! Hoav the
parsonical pressmen shrieked and screamed
and beat their tom-toms ! But a Liberal
Government was in power in England, which
little recked the puny Avails of the earth-
lusters and Imperialists of the South, and
Germany was encouraged to colonise, and
France Avas gently remonstrated Avith con-
cerning her convict-shipments—and there
the matter rested. Had the affair been put
upon another footing ; had Australia said :
“We will allow no poAver to come into
these Avaters bringing Avith it its old-
world wars and dissensions Avhich may
bear an infinitude of trouble in our
future, when our children shall live
beneath a republican rule of their own
making,” we might have seen some justice
in the outcry. It was, however, nothing of
this—only blind, impotent, racial hatred,
British intolerance, British arrogance, British
Podsnappery, which can alloAv no good to
come out of any Nazareth above Avhich waves
no Union Jack! And this is the sort of
thing which may be glutted to the full when
Parkes and Parson Jefferis and the edi-
torial parsons have succeeded in foisting upon
us their plagiarised ready-made dead house
dominion, their army and its Imperial
general ; when Clarke’s Sanhedrim - like
demand for the blood of the Teuton and
Frankish Barabbas will become concreted
in the policy of all the Australias as an
aggregate and vassal appanage of the British
Empire, devoted to her interests, fighting her
battles, paying for her Avars, voting the blood
and the treasure of Australia’s sons to the
Moloch of Imperial greed.
# * *
The “ Baphometic” fire-baptism of blood
and tears may be needed to make of us a
nation. Calm and peaceful as are our sur-
roundings to-day, away in the future may
loom dismal years of destined misery ; the
soil of Australia may yet receive an awful
fertility from the blood poured out by her
sons, the tears shed by her daughters; all the
land may be sorrow-drenched, and the night
made hideous by the wailing of widows and
the screams of orphans ; if men are the bricks
out of which nations are builded blood is the
cement which binds them together, and when
that day conies, it is to lie hoped we shall,
like men, full front our fate ; but not a sword
will Australia draw in England’s quarrels !
We have had enough of this sentimental
fustian. We refuse to pander to the weak-
ness that looks abroad for help, to the
effeminacy that would shirk its responsibility
and Jay its burden on the child’s back, ere
the limbs be knit enough to carry erect the
infant body. Sir Andrew Clarke has paid
us yeoman’s service. t e has told us the
fate for which we are reserved. We thank
him for his offices ; but sooner than grace
this British Otesar s triumph, we would
perish by our own hand, and by our own free
will. We will tight for England, never!
When tlie day comes we will fight ; but it
will be a fight to the death for our own
existence as an absolutely Independent
Nation !
The Socialism of Christ.
It may not be true, as is frequently affirmed, that
the poor are gradually growing more poor and the
rich more rich, but it is evident to all who choose
to see, that poverty is now more dangerous to
society than at any former period of the world’s
history. The poverty of the masses is a menace
to the classes, because education and the course of
events since the French Revolution have shown
mankind that poverty is not a necessary accom-
paniment of civilisation, but a sore which is as'
foreign to a healthful social life as any of the
miasmatic diseases which arise from neglect of
nature’s obvious laws, are to the bodily constitution
of the individual,
# # #
Granted that the bulk of humanity are superior
in general well-being to their immediate fore-
fathers, they are not very greatly in advance of
their ancestors at the beginning of the sixteenth
century. This Thorold Rogers very clearly
proves. In spite of the Renaissance and the
Reformation of Luther, the discoveries in
America and the conquests in the East, the social
condition of the European nations gradually
worsened from the middle of the fifteenth cen-
tury. until the Revolution displayed to the masses
their power and paved the way for most of the
advantages, such as they are, which the people
now enjoy. In no European country is the life of
the labourer pleasant living, and in most of them
it is a pitiful struggle against want. We are told
that in England and France, out of every thou-
sand persons at least thirty are absolute paupers.
In Italy and Prussia fifty, and in the Low
countries 105 ; while for Europe as a whole the
proportion of sturdy paupers is over fifty per
thousand persons. If to these be added the' little
ones developing into paupers and those who are
casually in receipt of State dole, it will not be an
exaggeration to put the proportion of European
paupers at one in ten. Even then are not included
the military, the so-called leisured class, kings,
princes, and other drones, so that when all are
told, the number of non-producers reaches an
extraordinary figure.
~ * . , * , , , #
from every side comes the bitter cry of poverty,
the cry of strong men willing to labour and no
work for them to take up. In London alone a
quarter of a million adults rise every morning not
knowing where to look for their daily bread. In
New York, where the old civilisation jostles the
new, thousands of men walk the streets homeless,
thousands of children every year drop into their
graves because their mothers’ breasts are dry, and
thousands of women who would rather work are
compelled to eat the bread of infamy. Such is
the testimony of recent investigations. Looking
through one of the evening papers recently, we
came across the subjoined paragraph. The inci-
dent related happened in London, and seems to
have caused not the faintest sensation :
At an inquest by Mr. Braxton Hicks, held on the body
of a newly-born infant which had died from having been
overlain, Robert Walker, the father, said he had been
unable to obtain any work for a long time, and he had
had to part with a good deal of his “home.” On the
night of the death his wife, himself, deceased, one
daughter 15 years of age, and another 3 years old all slept
in one bed, while four more of his children slept in
another room. Dr. Barkwbll remarked that death from
suffocation was just such a result as should have been
anticipated from so many sleeping in the room. The
coroner, in summing up, said it was no use reading the
father a lesson on sleeping in a crowded room, for he was
hard-up and could not pay for large apartments. The
jury returned a verdict of “Accidental death,” and ex-
pressed their opinion that the father had done the bes
he could under the circumstances. The coroner gave 10s
out of the poor-box for procuring necessaries for the sick
woman and the family.
* * *
The tale is horrible, but unfortunately not more
horrible than hundreds of other cases tb it occur
in the huge metropolis of England. So accustomed
have we grown to tales such as these that unless
pointed attention is drawn to them we fail to
notice their horror. We have come to believe that
poverty is the necessary substratum of our civilisa-
tion, that men must die and women must weep so
that other men may recline in the lap of luxury
and harlots sit in high places. So habituated to
the spectacle of vice and misery have men become
they have ceased to doubt but that they are
natural. Indeed many go further and profess to
believe that all existing conditions are divinely
advanced. The ordinary parson prattles from the
pulpit about submission to the divine will and the
virtue of the poor being humbly content with the
lot in which it has pleased God to place them.
Whatever is, is best, says Pope, and on this com-
fortable doctrine Society acts.
* * #
There be lovely infant faces
Press’d in hunger’s hideous mould,
Yet society cares not, excepting that such things
are disagreeable and must be put out of sight. If
poverty were not so intrusive and disagreeable to
be seen, we doubt if much trouble would be taken
for its relief. Want, if it ever pinches our cheek
or interferes with our life, is a dreadful calamity,
but we calmly read of the thousands who meet
their end by starvation and the myriads whose
lives are daily menaced by want, as if these were
so many dumb beasts cut off by drought, and not
human creatures whose position in life should be
equal to our own. It may be taken for granted
that much misery will always exist. The wages
of sin is death, and the wages of improvidence and
neglect is poverty. Under the most equitable
distribution of wealth there may be want, yet
such will be but an accidental circumstance, and
not a necessary phase of existence. Under the
present conditions, the life of a large minority is
only one remove from starvation, even at the best
of times. Yet, why is this so? During every
year even the most marked by drought or famine,
there are more of the necessaries of life produced
than the world requires—and yet men die of
hunger.
# * •
The problem is not new, though now as far off
a practical solution as ever. It was old when
Gautama sat under the Boodhi tree in the woods
of Gya, pondering over the mystery of pain, and
it is more pressing to-day than ever before in the
world’s history. So long as men were uneducated
so long was it possible to stave off this question.
If education has done nought else, if it has failed
to increase the gross sum of human happiness, as
many suppose, it has given abundant proofs of
its power, by making men conscious of this fact
that what is, is not necessarily best, that though
might is now right and the strong do possess the
land, the day of redemption is at hand when all
the irregularities of tooiety—its mountains of
wealth and its valleys of want—will be made
smooth. The doctrine preached by Chbist is
summed up in His own words —Love God and
thy neighbour. Now, these two commands are
one, for he who loves God loves his neighbour
also. The basis of Socialism is Christ’s com-
mand—Love thy neighbour. How, then, have
the modern teachers of Christianity followed this
simple precept ? Mostly, we are afraid, with a
peculiar obliquity of vision, which only sees a
neighbour in a man with a big, fat purse,
* * *
In one of Elizabeth Stuart Phelps’ books
there is a tale about a girl who, bred amongst
devout people, had fallen low as a woman only
can fall. She was still young, but of life full-
weary, One pitiless night, after fruitlessly tramp-
ing the streets, she is driven to take shelter in a
well-lit church, just before the service has begun.
The decent, pious people who come to worship
give the unfortunate a wide berth—certainly
nothing more natural. The choir sings, the
organ plays, and the minister preaches. The ser-
vice has little meaning for the outcast, indeed she
pays little heed to it, but the place itself revives
memories of the long-forgotten. She is cast back
from her shameful life to her happier past, she
almost forgets her present state. The service
ends and the congregation pass out, carefully
avoiding the contamination of the sinner. But
she neither hears nor sees them, she is thinking.
The last of the people pass out and the minister
comes down the aisle. Urged by an irresistible
impulse she speaks to him. She is bad, she is
unfortunate, miserable and hopeless—this she tells
him. The minister is astonished beyond measure,
for this is an entirely new experience. He would
be kind and offers her money, but he has no
message for her, his polished manners and glittering
periods cannot be brought to the level of her
offence. Poor man, he has no answer adapted to
her needs. So she, too, passes out into the dark-
ness—she has asked and asked in vain.
* * *
The moral of this is not far to seek. Humanity
is crying aloud in its needs. Platitudes on the
“ isms that haunt us,” and the sorry advice which
most ministers have for the poor of their flock
that they should bear patiently the ills with which
it hath pleased the Almighty to afflict them, are
but the stones given to them who cry for bread.
The demand of the masses is for a more equal
distribution of wealth, so that everyone shall have
his subsistence assured; that the preventible
diseases which come from filth, with their heritage
of pain and sickness, shall be abolished, for they
can be abolished; that children shall not be stricken
by want and disease so that they carry through life
the burthen of decrepitude and misery, as the
spectacle of life too often shows.
* * #
The people of this country profess the Christian
religion, that is to say, they return themselves as
Christians when they are inquired to state their
religious profession. But in that Christianity
expounded by its founder, and formulated in the
sermon on the Mount, they have no part. On
this head we may quote the opinion of the Rev.
F. Barry in a recent number of the Nineteenth
Century. Osicomnes: “ What right has a be-
liever in Christ to live luxuriously while his
brethren are starving in an unjust way? But he
pleads the interest of art and civilisation, which
he falsely, not to say criminally, pretends that his
self-indulgence subserves. Let him, I say, in the
name of Christ, take art and civilisation to the
savages who are wailing for such a renaissance all
over the land.” These are wholesome truths—but
how seldom preached from pulpit or practised in
daily life. We do not expect the clergy to go
about shoeless and' in tatters, but we do expect
them to preach the whole truth, as they know it.
Now the truth is not preached by shirking the
enforcement of the divine precept of poverty—
which means the equalisation of wealth or
socialism.
* ■* *
Somebody invented the phrase, “Men are better
than their creeds,” and though many repeat the
saying, it is none the less, broadly speaking, a
very stupid one, though perhaps absolutely true
were the morality which is as the breath of the
nostrils to all creeds detached from them. The
two great creeds of the world are the Buddhist
and the Christian. A very ordinary acquaintance
with the religion founded by Prince Siddartha,
even in its present developments, would be suffi-
cient to show that the Buddhist does not live who
is better than his creed. And of Christians how
many are as good as the belief they profess !
Blessed are the peacemakers, saith the Lord. Yet
all Europe is in arms and even these distant
shores resound with the din of warlike preparation.
Blessed are the poor in spirit. And all the people
are jostling and fighting each other for place and
power and pay. Blessed are the merciful. Yet
what do we see around us?
The sad world waiteth in its misery
The blind world stunibleth in its round of pain.
And the greater portion of this misery and this
pain is knowingly inflicted by man upon man.
The aim of Socialism is to mend this and to lift
from the shoulders of mankind the enormous load
of industrial wrong and misery by which they are
weighted : To enable men to live freer and, con-
sequently, happier lives ; to give them the pro-
ducts of their labour and a just share of the boun-
ties of nature ; to take away the causes of disease
which are removable and, these being removed,
restore man to that high physical condition from
which generations of fevers and plagues have
dragged him down. Whether Socialism will ac-
complish these things by first destroying the pre-
sent social fabric or will mount up by the aid of
existing institutions is the problem of the
future. That it will recreate society and estab-
lish a new order no reasonable man has
now any doubt. What part existing re-
ligious systems will have in the accomplishment
of this great work will soon be their most serious
trouble. If they are well advised or divinely
directed, they will claim their share of the gbod
work, and the Church of Christ will find its ap-
pointed mission amongst the poor and lowly and
not, as has hitherto been the case, all too fre-
quently, amongst the rich and powerful.
HENRY SIEBEL.
The Day of Grief.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Crowds filled the streets. Age, seared and scarred
with years,
Strained shrunken eyes through dusty, fire-filled
air,
With toothless mouth held weakly open ; youth,
Smooth-browed, soft-cheeked, but clammy, swollen
With heat, rolled eyeballs, and through ev'ry
blown pore
Perspired a worship bred by love and awe ;
And all the Years with Youth and Age conspired,
And steamed and blew and cried a storm of grief.
And wherefore? Henry Ernest Searle had died.
His coffined corpse from house to church, from
church
To Quay passed on. Wreaths loaded, crowned
the hearse.
The rose, forget-me-not, the lily fair,
The jasmine pink were bound in blue and white
And spoke of him. The beat of drum, the blare.
The call,'the cry of brass and reed and string
Were tears and prayers for him. The windows
closed,
The doors of business shut were silences
And rests more loud than tongues to shout his
name.
Amid these symbols of a people’s grief
The coffined corpse went seaward and was laid
Beneath the dust his feet in childhood trod.
Now, who and what was Henry Ernest Searle?
What went Australia’s people out to see ?
A man who braved the wrong and staked his life
To raise the right ? A man who wore the night
Into the day in search of truth ? A man
Who thinned himself to feed a fire whose light
Would make the writing on life’s will stand clear. ?
No. Henry Ernest Searle was simply this :
He owned the physical adjuncts of man—
The length, the curve, the symmetry of limb—
Which makes man as a brute the best of brutes ?
And these adjuncts he perfected by toil,
liepressing hungers which, indulged, would hurt;
Repressing thirsts which would, if satisfied,
Result in ill. _ He killed these, drove them down.
And bound himself unto the single task
Of filling up his body with brute force.
In other words, his theory of life
Was to turn ev’ry power and sense he owned
To issues physical, and physical
Not on to right, but only on to Sport.
There have been men who worked to raise the life
Of mind among us higher ; have been men
Who toiled to force the life of statesmanship,
Of poetry, ideals, here among
Us, but they went to graveyards without tears
Of public grief. They went and were not missed,
While some were thrown in scorn in panpiers’ pits.
Then why this loud Searle-worship ? Why ?
Because
His virtues made for money. Those who live
By betting on the well-trained horse would live
By betting on his muscle. In his thews
Was power to win, and from the winning sprang
A golden crop. As money-getter he
Was lifted up, and on his yellow hair
And ruddy face fond eyes of homage dwelt.
The man two-footed and the horse are one .
Within the mart of Sport, and both are great
Or small as gold may answer to the name.
The sense of reverence for perfect form,
Of love for perfect strength which lives in man
This rav’ning host stirred up and set aflame
And kept ablaze that in the ruddy light
And heated air the gambling soul might thrive.
And these were seconded by those who rise
Like bubbles on the human pool when chance
Throws stone of good or evil in. Frail, frayed
And winded politicians yelled shrill grief,
Frail, frayed and winded pastors echoed them,
And so the stupid Nation bowed its head
And felt a while as if its heart would break.
E.L.


If your digestive apparatus is impaired by
over-indulgence in the luxuries of the festive
season, imbibe Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
A New Zealand agnostic offers any clergy-
man £1000 who can cite a Scriptural passage bear-
ing testimony that man has an immortal soul. So
far he has no applicants.
Dundreary Sothern, we are glad to read,
“ was against capital punishment, against it with
his whole heart and soul. He raved about it, and
wrote and spoke in a fever of loathing and wrath.’
A comic illustrated paper named Great
Scot is now being published in Edinburgh. The
Graphic people are about to bring out an illus-
trated daily entitled the Daily Graphic, consist-
ing of 16 pages, printed on good paper, price one
penny. The preliminary issue will be a million
copies. As Moy Thomas and Oo. have over a
million of money at their back, and artists and
correspondents all over the world, and the best of
machinery, the new departure may pull through
American Elgin Watches. Awarded two
Gold Medals, Melbourne Centennial International
Exhibition, 1888, being higher awards than any
other Exhibition of Watches obtained.
The Duchess of Rutland sang “Wait till
the clouds roll by ” at a people’s concert in Crieff,
Scotland. Aristocracy is one of the' clouds.
They steal The Bulletin’s paid-for mat-
ter everywhere. The latest thief belongs to the
Bangkok (Siam) Times, who calmly “ scissorses ”
a Bulletin “ Ladies’ Club ” rhyme and dishes it
up as an original item.
A Sydney print declares that “ much valu-
able copy ” was destroyed by the fire that took
place in the local Weekly News office. It was
awfully foolish of John Haynes to lay up jour-
nalistic treasures on earth when he might have used
them in his own paper.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street. North, Sydney, December 23,1889.
Mr Dear Mooeabinda, —
It is a recognised fapt in the show business, that
Sydney is not Australia’s, mpst musical city, and that if
you want to “ fetch” it you must hang your harp on the
willow-tree and take to high kicking—but still that is no
reason why every 11 fashionable” drawing-room one
enters should have its piano smothered in plush frills and
generally treated like an altar for vulgarisms, standing in
a room where not one square inch of wall is unadorned
by pictures, fans and wall-ornaments. The result is that
when a guest raises his or her pipe he (or she) sounds as
if singing from behind a bale of wadding, while the
wooden thud of the handicapped piano sounds like an
industrious carpenter in the distance, and the guests sit,
and suffer silently during the choked-up proceedings.
People who haven’t a music-room should curb their
passion for blue and white and tucked velvet in the pre-
sence of the piano, which, acoustically considered, should
have no further adornment than what the maker gives it,
and should also be placed some distance from the wall.
Of course'when a piano is so located its long green baize-
back isn’t exactly lovely, but sound won’t suffer much
if you drape it with art-muslin or light liberty silk.
Those indescribable people who write to the papers
about the prosperity of the “ colonial working classes ”
a vague distinction in a land actually without a leisured
class—should remember that the high-priced kitchen
duchess isn’t the only sample of the Australian working
woman. A recent letter to a Sydney daily draws atten-
tion to the fact that some young girls in restaurants and
other establishments work fourteen and fifteen hours a
day, generally for fifteen shillings a week —and restaurant
work is hard work, however airy the lot of the waitress
may appear as she provokes the sallies of the Lands-office
at luncheon, in a coquettish cap and her cheeks rouged
while you wait in vain for your sandwiches if you happen
to be a woman. But fifteen hours a day is killing, and as
men, having won short hours tor themselves, don’t come
forward and emancipate their sisters, it’s time woman
helped herself. Organisation is a feminine attribute—and
a woman who can manage a workroom ought to be able
to head a strike. It is suggested that Parliament should
legislate against long hours for women—but that cat will
never jump.
If the craze continues for enamel, paint and gaudy
vegetables in all sorts of impossible places and on more
impossible things, the male motive of the artistic estab-
lishment blest by nature or connubiality with a shiny
bald head will awake some morning to find that vacant
allotment adorned with a large yellow sunflower on a
pink-enamel ground. Nothing is sacred from an artistic
daughter—the furniture, the walls, the china, are all
daubed with actonotus (as first favourite), then epacris,
then sunflowers, and when not a stpiare inch Of the house
is unadorned the gifted girl maybe seen stealing out with
a dark lantern and a strong male friend to the nearest
corporation excavation to steal therefrom a drain-pipe
which she paints blue or red or rainbow, with floral addi-
tions and insects —and then places in t he hall as a recep-
table for umbrellas. 1 have been quite impressed, since
the drain-pipe mania arose—at the number of municipal
ads., commencing: “A reward will be given for infor-
mation which will lead to the prosecution of the person or
persons,” &c., and it’s quite painful to think how many a
despoiled suburban mayor going out to dine has placed
his umbrella in his own stolen frescoed sewerette, and
wickedly winked at the fair thief behind the central
decorations!
Apropos of art. Of all the queer vehicles that are “ in ’’
just now for perpetrating galvanised-looking flowers and
things, I think I prefer the very latest idea—the glorified
rum-bottle. A friend showed me a dandy the other day-
painted in old-gold tone with a splodge of crimson; it
occupied a conspicuous position in her drawing-room, and
everybody said how lovely it was. But I noticed that this
“art” bottle was very firmly corked and, when shaken,
not exactly empty. Thus do the Faithful mingle top-note
style and vulgar utility. The frescoed gin-bottle idea
ought to simply boom in Sydney.
At Lady Hopetoun’s first reception the other day t he
vice-regal son and heir, Lord Hope, was playing on the
lawn with his nurse, when a mob of snobs gathered round
him and almost kissed him to death. When the Sydney
vice-regal infant was paraded at the recent reception she
was rushed in a similar manner, but the nurse sternly
ordered hands off, and only permitted a distant and re-
spectful regard, which almost sent Judith, etc., etc., into
convulsions of terror as it was. Poor little Hope was
kissed by most of the mixed-up crowd. Let’s trust none
of them are catching.
In a column of dainty details showing how a top-note
Parisian looks after herself in the winter the writer con-
r hides: —
It is bed-time. The lady assumes the vHemcnt
ordinaire. Then the second garment—a sort of ulster of
white plush, trimmed with ostrich feathers at the neck
and wrists. The nightcap, of white satin, should bn
trimmed with feathers of the same ; and, for additional
warmth, a little turtle-dove may be fastened above the
left ear. The very hands are to have their nightcap,
gloves of pink kid lined with plush, and fastened by
elastics (in pink chenille ), so as not to check the circula-
tion. The bed is to be heated by the fumes of burnt
lime and violets.
Luxurious, isn’t it? But only think what a figure a
woman would cut going to roost with an able-bodied
turtle-dove over her left ear and pink kid gloves on 1
And only fancy settling down to slumber and sending the
dove’s beak into your eye 1 It’s a good thing we don’t
get all our fashions from Paris.
Somebody sends out a plaintive wail objecting to the
budding geniuses of the N.S.W. Art School who limn
the work on view and then expose their mechanical, life-
less copies for sale in Sydney shops And I second the
expostulation—at any rate as regards the best pictures,
which should be boldly and firmly copyrighted against
such art-pirates. I was speaking to one of the geniuses
in question—a young girl—at the Gallery recently. She
was copying—well, I’ll not name the picture —and she
Said thoughtfully: “It’s my idea the whole thing’s too
dull. Wants to be pinker, I say ” —and straightway the
suspicion of dawn became the hue and tint of an able-
bodied water-melon ! To reverse the objection, though,
I have seen a girl with a good deal of art in her fingers
slaving away at a local old master about as artistically
impressive as a soap advt., when she could get far more
useful practice by stopping at home and drawing the
household oat, or a bunch of carrots, or something
strictly from the “round.” But there! which of the
lady painters has, her art education at heart ? Half the
charm is sitting in the dim, religious light of the A.G.
with a rapt, absorbed glare, a fetching blouse on, an ex-
piring young man student in the distance and a crowd of
gaping hayseeds in the foreground.
An enthusiastic correspondent from Wagga (N.S. W.)
sets forth in a large round hand the overwhelming success
of an open-air concert given by the Wagga “ Crows ” on
the local racecourse on the sth inst.,. assisted by lady
friends, a brass band, Chinese lanterns, refreshments
and a young moon. This giddy novelty deserved the
success it appears to have achieved.
I am pleased to note that the N.S.W., Railway Commis-
sioners have arranged for ambulance lectures for their
employees wherein the simpler arts of surgery will be
“ practically demonstrated.” A knowledge of rudimen-
tary surgery is demanded .on the railway,, and so long as
the men don’t emulate that enthusiastic female amateur-
medico who bound up the, wrong leg, the trip to
Parramatta will now be divested of half its dangers. By
the by, lam told that, the St. John Ambulance Society
instituted by Lady Brassey is practically as dead as Julius
Caesar. Why doesn’t somebody else with a title take it
in hand ?
I believe we are booked for a perfectly melting summer
in which a fan is an out-door necessity, and such being the
case I rise to beg the average Sydney girl who feels the
heat not to prance out armed with a paper fire-screen this
season. A small palm-leaf or mat-fan is the proper thing
with which to cool your flaming face on the Block and
looks ever so much more fetching than a 0 x -t abomina-
tion tricked out in all the colours that a bilious Japanese
imagination erroneously concludes are blendable.
The following advt. from a leading daily throws a strong
light equal to gas on the raison d'etre of many of the
ladies and gentlemen who adorn the Sydney stage,doesn’t,
it,?—
TO Theatrical Managers.—Young lad desires to Ap-
prentice himself to stage.' A.8.C., P. 0., Peter-
sham.
This is at last the true explanation of, those strange, no-
acre people who pronounce “ R.” as if it were a serial and
contort-like paralysed gas-pipes in one-line parts ; they
are “ dramatic apprentices” chained to the footstool of
Thespis by red-taped indentures 1 Such is life !
If imitation is the sincerest mode of flattery, Lady
Cariugton should feel greatly flattered, seeing that
out of every six of the female babies born in Sydney one,
at least, is dubbed with the sweet name of “ Marjorie,”
which is the name of the eldest daughter of , the House of
Carington. These new-old names are.mostly very sweet,
and are quite sufficient in themselves, but when we have
Marjorie Dorothy or Patricia Gillian, the effect is spoilt,
for one name kills the other. Sydney mothers seem to
think that the old names are the thing, so make the
vulgar mistake of having too much of a good thing. It
costs nothing, you know, and is so Government-Housey.
What is this little story told me about a Sydney official
and his lady visitor of the other day? They say she had
come to extort further blackmail from him to square a little
alleged anterior friskiness of his, and he absolutely re-
fused to give her any more big cheques. She said she
would simply pay a little friendly call on his wife, and
then, so she says, he tried to choke her, and would pro-
bably have succeeded if somebody hadn’t knocked at the
door, when she made good her escape into a hansom.
Poor thing 1
Quite the' sight on the Sydney block is a pair of salmon-
pink silk garters with silver ‘clasps, displayed in a very
small odds-and-ends shop. On one of them is worked
“ Good night,” and on the other—well, Honi soU,
etcetera.
The Brisbane Benevolent Society has fallen through*
“ as most people feel that the society has failed in its
main object—that of stopping house-to-house begging.”
Fancy that for the main object of a Benevolent Asylum 1
Have Sydney Society’s hosen taken to suddenly coming
down, or what is the reason that the Sydney shop-window-
now contains nothing but garters? And they are so
splendidly flimsy, too. A bridal pair in white satin have
big bunches of orange-blossom on the bows ; others are of
blue and pink silk with floral hysterics, and look as if one
tug would crack them, while the climax of idiocy is
reached in a blue-silk pair with the opening remark of the
English National Anthem embroidered on them ! In my
mind’s eye, Horatio, I can see the bilious visage of the
woman who would wear “God Save the Queen” on her
garters!
It is cabled that the diamonds of the Empress of Brazil
have been stolen. They are reputed to be the finest in
the world. From this, I presume, that the ex-Empress is
going on the stage.
A blighted poetess of the limp and clinging order, in a
long “pome” to her stiffened Augustus, painfully re-
marks in a country paper:—
“ Callid (sic) breeze ”is good. But the defunct should
have waited till he got cool.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
“ And I know your soul came back to me
In my love and my sad despair,
By the callid breeze that fitfully
'Played ’mongst my unbound hair.”
CORRSPONDENCE
“Robert Brown” (W., Melb.) : Many thanks
for letter and the pamphlet....“Skitastic ” : Thanks. ...
“Niels R.” (Gympie); Good “E. S. M. MacD.
Sorry to say we don’t remember the verses.... Don t
Know”: The Imperial Federationists want Australia to
be represented in the Imperial Parliament as Ireland and-
Scotland are ; to accept the decision of that Parliament
and to allow it to legislate for us in all Imperial matters,
including taxation for the purposes of the Empire. Be-
sides this, they want a lot of other things which they
don’t consider it advisable to mention ....“J.W.Di (S.
Yarra): Alas! How “sick” a thing is, a twenty-year-old
metrical boot-lick! “Thorax”: Much obligedi....
“Dargo”: We haven’t seen it, but will look it up....
“J.R.” (Cairns Railway): You say, John, that you’ve
“ never lamented through 24 years ” ; if you go on writing
such rubbish you will have reason to change your tune., .
“J.M.8.” (Brisbane): The figures regarding the cost of
the President’s election are probably over-estimated.
But they prove nothing in any case ; the U.S. Presidency
and Senate are “ filthy monarchical rags,” servilely copied
from British institutions, The President is, while in office,
an uncrowned king, the Senate a non-democratic institu-
tion. Both are unnecessary and must go as public opinion
ripens.... “ A Baokblooker” : Thanks for your letter....
“ Old Fossicker ” (Wattle Flat): Many thanks.... “ Ohas.
Coglan ” (Lismore): Thanks for sketches. Handed to
artist;...“G.F.”: Go to a good, respectable doctor and
don’t fill yourself up with drugs at random. The latter
course is the road to madness. No sane medical man
prescribes for himself in a serious case ; and how can any
man prescribe for you who has never seen you ? “ Hugh
Munro” (Fiji); The Bulletin has—by two to one. ...
“ Constant Subscriber”: Assault committed June 15,1875
John Elder ” : Received with thanks.... “ Walter
Emery ”: You are carrying coals to Newcastle. Your
“ good story ” is only the story in another form of Winch,
the Melbourne butcher who kissed the married woman
and found himself famous at the police-court and then,
through the publicity given to his wickedness by the
papers, was found to be the missing kissing heir to a big
fortune “George M'Alister ” (Wheeo): Many thanks
for your encouraging letter.. ..“J.E.” (Little Twins).
Savours too much of the shop — “ Daniel Thorn ”: Glad
to hear from y0u....“ Victor Pasha ” : Selfishness, eithei
direct or indirect, is the mainspring of nearly all human
actions.,.. “ J.M.P.”: The retailers who charged a shilling
for The Bulletin’s ,Xmas Number did so purely on their
own responsibility. The price of the Xmas number was
not raised by this office.... “ J.E.” ; Spasmodic and inco-
herent, ... “ Tommy the Nut” ; Many thanks. Chestnut.
•< gkijastic ” : As a rule, we don’t favour acrostics. ...
“Gundaroo”: As the ladies who have been borrowing
flour up your way, then repudiating, swearing, fainting,
and fighting are in “ high society,” we leave the matter in
the hands of Baron Caringtou. Exclusion from Govern-
ment House will be sufficient punishmentH.W.’
(Gnotuk, Vic.): Will carefully.consider—“Same Old
Subscriber”; Handed to Hop—“W.T.S.”: The“ Angl-
o Society of Artists ” apparently consists of Mr.
Ayerst Ingram and a number of English-painted pictures
which the noble British public haven’t snapped up
“C.C.M.”; Next week.... “T.”: By no means bad love-
sick verse. Will publish the little 0ne.... “E. J. Tamsett ”:
An Agent-General should be in touch with Australian
sentiment just as a member of Parliament should be in
touch with his constituents—“W.T.F.” (Ipswich, Q.):
Write him another letter and register it. If you do not
get satisfaction let us know—“P.M‘D.”: We cannot at
the moment lay our hands on the extract.... ‘France .
It’s of no use writing to the memory of dead atheletes the
same sort of verses that you would write to the memorj
of your maiden sister-in-law. A good ringing, muscular,
sporting ballad to the memory of Searle would be all right
enough... “H.E.W.” (Melbourne): Many thanks ...
“S. M‘Culloch ” : N.Z. will.not join the Australian Feder-
ation, but will merely take part in any scheme of general
defence . “C. L. Moore ” : Your.“ breilanfc ” pome has
gone into the puncheon we keep as a receptacle for odes
to dead departed scullers and pugilists....“Stanley B.”;
Good sentiment. Why don’t you set to work?....
“Camoeme” : We have already two other odes on the
death of Searle commencing “Toll, toll the bell”—and
here is a hunk from the next one;—
There are about ten more verses like that, and then there
comes along the man who commences by setting forth
that “A mighty sob, tear-laden, stirs the deep.”. ..
“A. W. Berry”; But it is quite real; the American
slave has not been emancipated. Fred. Douglass, the
eloquent coloured man, has just been appointed U.S.
minister to the republic of Hayti, and “ three captains
of the U.S. Navy have been suspended from duty and de-
prived of their commands in consequence of their refusal
to receive a man of the Envoy’s colour and race on terms
of equality at their table or as passenger on board their
ships. As for the ordinary mail steamers to the West
Indies, it was hopeless to attempt to send the Minister to
Hayti on board any of them. For so strict are their
rules and regulations on the subject of the colour-line
that they would only have been able to give deck
passages to his Excellency and his party. The Young
Men’s Christian Association, one of the most representa-
tive and influential corporations in the States, refuses to
admit coloured youths to membership." “H. C.
Shaw”: Will publish your thoughtful remarks ...“W.
Davis” (Newcastle); You had better employ a respectable
solicitor. Others would probably bungle the matter....
“ W.A.M.” : Melodious. Will publish. [Many communi-
cations held over.]
“ Poor fellow, gone to rest— at last
Your work is done, your labour past;
You’ve done your duty—now sweet rest
Is yours for ever—with the blest.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
"A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.”
Prttwwton . ** Friends.
Cyclorama V./. Battle of Gettysburg
School of Arts Harry Rickards’Companyi
Exhibition Building The Silbdn-Stirks.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal ■ i ■>
Princess’ .. .. “ That Doctor Cupid.
Alexandra.V.V.V.V.. Dampier’s Company.
Opera House “ Fun on the Bristol.
Athenaeum Hall. Snazelle.
ST George’s Hall. Coghill Gompany-
Victoria Hall Novelty Company.
Exhibition Building Children s Festival.
Hibernian Hall “ Arrah-na-Pogue.
At Sydney Criterion “ Betsy,” which has
drawn good houses, makes way for “ Friends ’’ on
Boxing Night after a ten-nights’ run. It is dith-
cult to locate the barriers that divide broad
comedy from burlesque, but there can be little
doubt that some of the “ Cri.” company have been
found occasionally on the wrong side of late.
Now, should George Anson, in a succeeding per-
formance, elect to stand on his head, while
Robert Brough ambles round on all-fours, laughter
would undoubtedly be evoked, but no one would
argue that it was legitimately obtained. _ the
words and situations of “ Betsy ” are sufficiently
ludicrous to render it unnecessary to outrage pos-
sibility by suddenly investing hitherto respectable
citizens of London with the attributes of candi-
dates for Bedlam, and —but at this happy time of
peace and goodwill to all men it would be un-
charitable and unseasonable to say more. _ As
Capt. M‘Manus, Titheradge more successfully
conceals his identity than on most occasions, and
his fine Dublin accent, like that of Lucia Harwood,
was good enough for Sackville-street, though some
of the critics, expecting apparently the brogue of a-
hodman, growled. By the way, young “Tith.,
a very interesting lad, makes his- debfit ins
“Friends,”
* m
At Her Majesty’s “Rip Van Winkle”
has drawn many to the stalls and gallery, but the
dress-circle flea must be hungry by now. The'
power of Robert M‘Wade’s acting lies in sugges-
tion by attitude, movement and facial expression;
here, particularly in the last act, he is very good,
but his monotonous rendering of his feeble lines
has made us tired. After the Christmas run of
“Midsummer Night’s Dream,” Mr. M v> ade,
piloted,by “the ever-genial Gunther,” may re-
appear at H.M.’s ; meantime, Rip once more re-
lapses into profound slumber. In the Mid-
summer Night’s Dream,” which opens on Christmas •
Eve, and is, they say, magnificently mounted,
George Rignold, Kate Bishop, Harry Jewett, and
many other good people, including the mellifluous
and pleasing Tilly Salenger, and Maribel Green-
wood, of the talented N.Z. family of that name,
will take part.
** * *
On visiting Sydney Palace Museum for the
twentieth time last week, wo at once kissed the
magnetic palm of Mdlle. Josephine, and had a
look at the sweet girl with the to-be-continued-m-
-our-next body. Then we interviewed the Mahdi,
a Turk who allowed Manager Ashton to push a ■
telescope right through his internal economy,
which telescope may yet be utilised as a pea-
shooting gallery. The Midgets and Professor
Jensen continue to draw crowds; _ Searles waxen
presentment and the boat in which he defeated ■
O’Connor have been added to the list of curiosities.
** * *
The death of Jeff. Davis has made no
difference to the Cyclorama of the Sydney Battle
of Gettysburg, where “ the bloodiest conflict of
modern times ” still continues.
** * *
At Sydney Royal (which has now a clean
face and a new dress) ‘ ‘ Aladdin ” comes to the front
on Boxing Night with an old lamp and a new
face. Jennie Lee, George Walton and Johnny
Wallace will be to the fore, and “ lots of fun” may
be anticipated.
At Bondi Aquarium grounds (now elec-
trically lighted) Prof. Von Tassell, balloonist, of
America, intends to parachute during the holidays
to amuse people who like hideous, creepy sensa-
tions.
The enterprising M‘Mahons have no less
than seven different theatrical seasons simul-
taneously, during the present Christmas, spread-
ing pretty well all over the Australias, thus:
Sydney Exhibition Building, the Silbon-Stirks,
commencing Boxing Night; Melbourne Opera
House, Sheridan’s “ Fun on the Bristol; ” New-
castle, “Human Nature” and “Held by the
Enemy ” with George Leitch and their own •
Dramatic Co. ; Sandhurst, Vic., Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove’s Royal Dramatic Co. in
“ Bells of Haselmere,” &c. ; Ballarat, Solomon’s
Opera Co. in “ The Beggar Student,” &c. ;
Launceston, Grattan Riggs ; Adelaide, The New
Palace Circus. This is, perhaps, the largest
deal yet made out here in the game of manage-
ment.
The accompanying sketch is from a recent
portrait of the principal members of the famous
Silbon-Stirk organisation, who a few months ago
so delighted thousands of the Sydney public with
their remarkable performances in the Exhibition
Building. That public will, no doubt, learn with
keen satisfaction that the Messrs. MacMahon
have arranged for another short season of these
wonderful people upon the scene of their former
triumphs, previous to their final departure for
America. This season will commence on Boxing
night, and it is stated that the original perform-
ance will be even enhanced by the addition of still
greater novelties. The Exhibition is sure to prove
a very popular resort during the warm summer
nights, and the management have wisely decided
upon popular prices. The portraits embodied in
the sketch are by Tuttle and Co.
** * *
The dark shadow of an approaching fes-
tive season hung over Melbourne shows last week,
and the sighs of troubled treasures were like unto
the soughing of the wind among the trees of a
forest green and fair. Good old Grattan Riggs,
after a sorrowful farewell week of “ Oolleen
Bawn,” was to take a ben. and testimonial at the
Royal last Friday night. The ridiculous accident
of Christmas Day falling on a Wednesday,
whereby the historic arrangements of this journal
are suffering a grievous wrong, makes it impos
sible to state here with certainty, whether the
solemn functions in question did come to pass.
But, assuming that they did, it behoves ns to
mention that Grattan Riggs returned thanks in a
voice broken by emotion, and that the utmost


enthusiasm prevailed, &c. The Alexandra attend-
ances weakened somewhat under the spell of “The
Bohemian Girl ” and ‘ ‘ Maritana, ” and on Saturday
a successful season was to make a final splutter with
“ Beggar Student.” “ Yeomen of the Guard”
has been trilling its solemn lay at the Princess for
ten nights, and comes to a peaceful end this
Christmas Eve. Melbourne’s first impressions of
Miss Clara Merivale seem to be rather more
favourable than was expected, but it is a general
complaint that the sympathetic mezzo-soprano
doesn’t stand up as straight as the quills upon a
fretful porcupine, and if she will kindly accept
this intimation, friends at a distance will feel
greatly obliged. On Saturday night, too, another
classical revival of ‘ ‘ Fun on the Bristol ” was to
bring back Widdy O’Brien to the Opera House,
where that choicest product of the dear ould sod
purposes shaking her false front at a fat, deceitful
Signor for the next few joyful, but dyspepsia-
Wauuted days.
*# * *
It is truly a matter for regret that Divine
William Shakespeare has come to dire grief at the
Opera House. The success of Mr. Miln’s first
season was not altogether unaccountable for the
failure of his second, inasmuch as he reached the
summit of his boom as Hamlet, a character which
fitted his style badly and was the means of per-
suading hundreds of people who saw the tragedian
in no other part that he was too tempestuous
entirely. Yet Mr. Miln’s performances of
Richard the Third and two Marc Antonys
proved him to be a powerful, attractive, and
always-improving artist. His record is unique
—an ex-parson of big repute who has ac-
quired all his stage experience in “star” parts.
Of the members of the disbanded company young
Mr. Greenaway is about to fight under the bannei
of Handsome George in Sydney, and Mr. Hodson
has the run of the Hibernian Hall for the
holidays. With due regard for the fitness of
things, Hodson meditates playing “Arrah-na-
TPogue ” at that Celtic tabernacle, and a venerable
ballad entitled “The Swearing of the Green”
will send a thrill through the souls of such sons
of Erin as may be sufficiently sober to roll up.
** * *
The novelties promised for Boxing Night
are “That Doctor Cupid” at the Princess’s,
another drama by Frank Harvey (with Dampier
and Co. once more into the breach) at the Alexan-
dra, and a pantomime at the Royal. “Gin
derella ” is the name of the pant, at time of
writing, but the titles of these great Christmas
annuals are always subject to alteration at the
last moment, so the show might be presented to
the world as “Little Red Riding Hood” or
“ Jack and the Beanstalk,” because it makes no
difference anyhow. “ A Little Folks’ Festival ”
will be started at the Exhibition, and something
of an extra-special character takes place at each of
the halls, including the Town Hall, where Santley
enters upon a fresh season, assisted by a new
contralto and supported by the indestructible R.
S. Smythe.
** # *
Likewise and furthermore, Pain’s Fire-
works purpose breaking out again at the Friendly
Societies’ Gardens, Melbourne, on Christmas Eve.
An optical illusion, in the form of a delightful
female described as a Goddess of the Deep, and
who looks pretty deep as goddesses go, is putting
bucolic intellects to confusion at Kreitmayer’s
Waxworks. The Cyclorama is still in proud
possession of Jeremiah Brown, the grand old
veteran who threw a brick at Buonaparte during
the Battle of Waterloo, and slew 326 of the
Old Guard with the jawbone of an ass. Never-
theless Jerry is getting older every day, and will
require careful watching through the plum pudding
stage of his Xmas dinner. The Victorian
Orchestra has taken to playing at M. 0.0. grounds
while the stars shine overhead ; consequently a lot
of girls who couldn’t bear symphonies before, have
now got a terrible quantity of high class music in
their souls. They return from these al fresco
concerts with their dear little lips smelling of
smoke more than words can tell. It must be
something in the music,
* * »
Much-travelled Smythe, whose remarkable
head is again one of the sights of Melbourne,
takes the present opportunity to announce that he
expects to get Explorer Stanley in tow at some
future date, when the “ Australian public will have
the honour of welcoming that much-enduring
special correspondent, fearless missionary, and
heroic Englishman.” Surely the astute Smythe,
who has made a little pile with the pious Yon
Finkelstein, isn’t going to run Stanley as a mis-
sionary ! Australians know very little about the
heroic Welshman (not Englishman) except that
ho is generally losing himself, or finding some-
body, away in Africa. On the platform of civilisa-
tion Stanley is reputed to be an unutterable bore,
and to call him a missionary won’t be any sort of
recommendation to the show. But if Smythe
bills him as the man who has killed more niggers
to his own gun than any other creature on earth,
it will appeal to our inherent destructiveness, and
we may possibly give the entertainment our
patronage and support.
** * #
“ Struck - Oil” Williamson says that,
theatrically speaking, it doesn’t do always to have
turkey on the festive board. Judging from the
Triumvirate’s almost constant supply of leg-and-
breast shows and, shall we say, stuffing, we
thought poultry for the toothless was their motto.
** * *
When it was reported in Edinburgh that
one of the Gaiety Company had been robbed of
£2OOO worth of diamonds overnight, Manager
Abud said, in reply to an interviewer, that he
believed the robbery had occurred, but he couldn’t
ray for certain which of three fair goddesses was
the victim. Probably a chorus maiden, at thirty
shillings a week salary, lost the glittering tokens
of love and esteem, but whoever it may have been
was evidently well up in the cost-price of her pro-
perty. How is it, by the way, that actresses can
always state the exact value of jewellery they
receive as presents ? They must ask their chappies
or get information on the subject from “uncle.”
At Poverty Point.
The Sydney Rhilarmonio Society will once more perform
Handel’s “ Messiah,” this time in the Darlinghurst Hall.
Signor Hazon will conduct, and Miss Frances Saville, Mrs.
Vanderveer Greene, and Messrs. Hallewell and Clinton
will be the principals.
Mrs. James Brown Potter, who, it was said, left the
stage in consequence of her husband’s wish, is doing Paris
in company with “Curly” Bellew—also, we presume, by
hubby’s request.
Herr Scherek’s Criterion Sunday concerts are distinctly
improving in quality. These entertainments provide, as
ever, the best musical value to be got in Sydney.
Barnum says he prefers England to America. He is so
polite, so anxious to hurt no one’s feelings, that there is
little doubt he’ll speak just as highly of Sheol when he
gets there.
Says the Aon critic in writing of the “Yeomen of the
Guard”: —“ Miss Eva Leamington, whose name was in the
bills as a ‘ first appearance in Melbourne,’ appears to be
identical with a lady who previously played the part, if
so, the management will doubtless rectify its error.” He
has apparently mistaken the fair Eva, late of “ Pun on the
Bristol,” for Miss Amelia.
MOULTON AND DASHWAY.
THE GIRARDS.
THE SILBONS.
THE STIRKS.
THE DALES.
He (during the ballet): “ Yes, 1 think men are more
considerate than women.” She: “ What makes you think
so?” He: “ Well, you see that young lady in front of us?
She wears a high-crowned hat, and the man behind her
can’t see over it.” She: "Well?” He; “Now see that
man in front of her who is so earnestly watching the
pretty girl in tights?” She: “Yes.” He; “He is so
considerate of those behind him that he does not even
wear his hair, let alone his hat.”
The Pall Mall Gazette has interviewed Elsie Stanley
Hall, the Australian child piano-player, at Paris.
Miss Bessie Royal, well and favourably known to Aus-
tralian theatre-goers in connection with opera, has
settled down in Sydney, where she intends to utilise her
great experience in teaching, and vary the monotony by
occasional appearances on the concert-platform.
The bald-head theatrical nuisance is even worse in
Paris than most places. One green-room is thus placarded:
—" Hereafter each and every actress connected with this
theatre will be allowed to bring into the green-room only
one father at a time.”
The New York Herald and other local papers continue
to give Miss Annie Mayor lengthy notices of the most
flattering character. She is playing with H. B. Conway,
An American critic, from Chicago, heads a critique
thus—“ Park House Opera. Pig-tailed and Pig-headed
Hoggishness. The Drama put in the brine and Mirth
slung out like sausage.” Where’s Dan O’Connor now ? (_
R. S. Smythe says that Stanley will now redeem a
promise made three years ago to visit Australia on a
lecturing tour.
Daniel Bandmann, at latest, was playing in ’Frisco in
“ The Corsican Brothers.”
Charles E. Pratt, the pianist, is still to the fore in New
York. He obtained Australian celebrity by marrying
Sarah Saqui, a lady much esteemed in the best Melbourne
circles.
“ Diplomacy,” which was recently played at the Sydney
Criterion, got its name by chance. A lot of names such
as “ Blackmail,” the “Mousetrap,” “Diplomacy,” were
put in a hat, and Mr. Bancroft (for whom Clement Scott
and B. 0. Stephenson adapted it from the French of
Sardou) drew, and “ Diplomacy ” came out, and so it was
named.
While Fanny Davenport was playing an engagement in
Pittsburg, U.S., recently, a young hotel-clerk, after a
rather lively priming with the boys, went to the Opera
House. He was a good-looking fellow with a black
moustache, and the figure he cut that night was given
colour by his new light overcoat and high silk hat. By
the time he reached the theatre it was pretty full; so was
he. But he bought a ticket for a parquet seat right down
in front, and with tolerably steady steps made his way to
it. It was in the middle of a scene. As he reached the
seat and was divesting himself of his loud overcoat,
Fanny Davenport came down the stage to the footlights
and said to the villain who was courting her, but with her
eyes to the audience: “I can never love thee!” She
said it with great emphasis, and the handsome hotel-
clerk rose from his seat, took up his hat and overcoat,
and saying in a loud voice, “Well, that settles it!”
retraced his steps up the aisle, while the audience roared.
The theatrical business in Pompeii (says an American
exchange, which has been at a standstill since the erup-
tion of Vesuvius in 79 a.d., appears to be looking up,
judging from the following announcement of Signor
Luigni:—“ After a lapse of more than 1800 years, the
theatre of this city will be opened, with “ La Figlia del
Reggimento.” I solicit a continuance of the favours
bestowed on my predecessor, Marcus Quintus Martius,
and beg to assure the public that I shall make every effort
to equal the rare qualities displayed during his manage-
ment.”
Letty Lind has taken to fainting in public.
Says a London paper:—“ Eight thousand pounds has
keen offered by the Australian Triumvirate to Mrs.
Langtry for a three months’ engagement in Melbourne
and Sydney.”
In the burlesque, “ The New Corsican Brothers,” by
Cecil Raleigh, music by Walter Slaughter, Arthur Roberts
and our old friends, Deane Brand and pretty Kate Chard,
are the principals. In one part of the piece, Mr. Brand
has to tell Mr. Roberts that he is to call him Anstruther.
“ Can’t you make it masculine?” said Roberts. “ How do
you mean?” asked Brand, getting confused. “Well,
can’t you say Joe Struther, for instance ?” Grand old
English humour ! ,
Toole will be banqueted on leaving London for Aus-
—Fife in the chair.
Max O’Rell leaves England for America on a lecturing
tour on Christmas Day. He will be away five months and
will deliver 120 lectures, for which he is guaranteed £5OOO.
Better than school-teaching ?
Old Boucioault’s copyrights (auctioned to pay the
&c., of the wife who divorced him) did not fetch much the
other day. Manager Austin bought “ Arrah-na-Pogue ”
for £152, “ London Assurance,” £150; “After Dark,” £7O ;
and Entrepreneur Melville secured “ Formosa ” for £54,
and “Flying Scud” for £5O. The ex-Mrs. Boucicault
purchased “Old Heads and Young Hearts” for £10;
“Long Strike,” £42; “Elfric,” £l2; “She Loves Him,”
£6; “The Irish Heiress,” £l6; “Mercy Dodds,” £6;
' “ Love in a Maze ” and the “ Prima Donna” for two guineas.
“Lost at Sea” went for £l5, and the great spectacular
leg-show, “ Babil and Bijou,” over which £42,000 was lost
in London Alhambra, brought one guinea. What became
of the better plays we are not told; probably they were
reserved.
Panorama Rainer, who arrived in the colonies in ’6B,
died recently at Bendigo. He built theatres at pastle-
maine and Daylesford, and will be best remembered in
connection with his American War ’wait
A man is known by the company he keeps. This is
especially true of theatrical managers.
The Harry Rickards’ Company, strengthened by the
engagement of the Murphys, lady and gentleman Irish
character artistes, and the Spanish Students, opens at the
Sydney School of Arts on Boxing Night.
Says a Sydney theatrical critic, “ apart from a rather
.weak libretto, the piece is an excellent one.” Exactly;
and apart from its damphoolishness the criticism is also
of undoubted excellence.
Prank Hussey, of mipstrel fame, a great-grandson of
Benjamin Franklin, and who first came to Australia with
Holly, in ’6B, died lately in Hobart, aged 57. He 'leaves
a widow unprovided for.
Forde, the Melbourne theatrical costumier, has a group
of faded photographs redolent of memories. In one batch
are 350, gathered 20 years ago. Amid those who figure
are—Anderson, Brooke, Mdme. Celeste, Mdme. Carandini,
Coppin, Miss Cleveland, Chas. Dillon, Sir William and
Lady Don, Rosalie Durand, Lucy Bscott, Rose Evans,
Farquharson, Fawcett, the Gougenheims, Mr. and Mrs.
Heir, Hoskins, Hydes, Jefferson, Mr. and Mrs. 0. Kean,
Lambert, the Leopolds, Lyster, Chas. Mathews, Julia
Mathews, M‘Kean Buchanan, Pablo Fanque, Rogers,
Sefton, Barry Sullivan, Squires, Vincent, Kate Warde,
H. N. Warner, Chas. Young, P. Younge, R. Younge.
The Charles Holloway-W’alter Howe company open at
the Theatre Royal, Hobart, on Boxing Night, in the
“ World Against Her.” Alice Deorwyn, Emily Fitzroy,
and other well-known members of the perfesh, will assist
to make things lively.
J. L. Goodman, once manager for Miln, is doing well as
a sharebroker in South Africa.
The Emma Chambers Comedy Company are now in
Natal. They were detained five months in Mauritius
waiting for a steamer.
The Australian rights of “Her Father,” a very strong
drama based on the Spanish, have been acquired by
Charles Warner, who will play the lead originally sus
tained by Hermann Vezin.
If you want to get a good Christmas
appetite use Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
H. C. Sidney is now in the Alfred Hospi-
tal, Sydney, suffering from a severe internal com-
plaint.
A splash in the gentle current of affairs
down at Nathalia (Vie.) has been made by a
young saddler, who loves the Bible and cherishes
a hopeless attachment for one of the local damsels.
Finding that she did not smile upon his suit the
distracted saddler decided to take it off, and after
swimming the Broken Creek in a state of Nature,
with a New Testament between his teeth, he
turned up at the front door of his Venus’s resi-
dence, and shrieked “Lo! the bridegroom oometh.”
However, while th'» expectant young Christian
stood waiting on the doorstep for the nuptials to
be celebrated, two policemen upset his arrange-
ments, and for three hours the whole population
of Nathalia were chasing a long, thin, naked
vision all over the adjacent country, until at last
he fell exhausted into a strait-jacket, remarking
that marriage was indeed a solemn sacrament.
The lengthy Joseph Palmer Abbott,
member for Wentworth in the N.S.W. Assembly,
is now regarded as the Great Political What-is-it.
He is the sort of man who votes one way and
speaks another. He will not lead, neither will he
be led. He professes to be a Protectionist—yet
Protectionists hang and burn his effigy. He is
not a Freetrader, yet the Freetraders cheer him
to the echo. He apparently likes to induce
Eeople to offer him things in order that he may
ave the pleasure of refusing them. He would not
be Premier when it was possible for him to have
taken the Premiership, neither would he be
Speaker when he could have stepped into that
office. He is a most astute and trusted lawyer
and could, no doubt, make twice as much money
were he to utterly eschew politics. The Bulletin.
is not quite certain whether Mr. Joe Abbott’s
golden time has not come and gone like that of
many another incorrigible old flirt. However, in
a good old hypocritical Anglo-Saxon community
anything may be possible for a level-headed man
who is never enthusiastic but always respectably
fish-blooded and never talks without twangily
snuffling in a lofty, pious style as though he were
preaching a sermon on the Holiness of Love at an
Evangelical camp-meeting.
At Cooma, the N.S. W, Minister for Edu-
cation, Hon. J. H. Carruthers, while engaged in
promoting the interests of Foreign-trade candidate
Myers, “ referred in scathing terms to Mr. Miller’s
conduct in refusing to drink the Queen’s health. ”
Mr. Miller may have refused to drink the health
of Queen Victoria because he wasn’t thirsty, or
more probably because of his Republican sym-
pathies, but there can be no mistake about the
motives of the Calico-Jimmy representative. The
Bulletin has always pointed out that Freetrade
in Australia means Imperialism, Monarchy, Man-
worship, while the true Protectionist is the
Nationalist and the Republican. Heretofore
Republicans, as a rule, have not refrained from
drinking the Queen’s health simply as that of a
lady of whom they had no personal knowledge
and towards whom, apart from her office, they
had no personal dislike. The action of Minister
Carruthers is likely to change that attitude, for
the Minister seems desirous of making it a test
question. So be it, and let the return of Protec
tionist Miller unmistakeably foreshadow the in-
evitable result. In future let Nationalists also
assume the aggressive on this question. Let it be
clearly recognised that drinking Queen Victoria’s
health includes not only the toasting of the main-
tenance of Monarchy in Britain—an institution
which, we hope, will die with or before the pre-
sent Queen —but its extension to Australia with
all its leprous burdens —the hideous elephantiasis
of a hereditary aristocracy, a standing army and
navy, a corrupt State church, a colossal pension *
list, and a system of nepotism, including the siip'- 1
port of the Royal offspring, whether legitimate or
illegitimate even to the tenth generation. The
Bulletin accepts the challenge, and if the
National Party of N.S. Wales are worth their
salt they also will be ready to take up the anti
Republican gauntlet so vwmtily thrown down.


A Child of Nature.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A few years ago the solemn wildness of a
sequestered locality near the north coast of Tas-
mania was abruptly violated lay the sudden erup-
tion of a small but extremely lively mining town-
ship. A couple of enterprising youths pottering
about the surface of the
earth a few months
earlier in pursuit of noth-
ing more valuable than
wallabies or “devils,” be-
came deeply interested in
the unexpected discovery
of a very promising-
looking outcropof quartz.
The direct result of this
interesting circumstance
was an immediate and
enthusiastic trend of
public feeling towards
that retired locality and
a speedy pressure of
population along the line
of reef. A startling
transformation ensued ;
with wonderful alacrity
pubs, and poppet - legs
sprang upon the scene,
the forest fell back, and
huts, and tents, and pal-
ing stores assumed the
vacated sites ; the rattle
of trucks, the clang of
knockers, the heavy beat
of batteries, and the
united clamour of a
dozen whistles buried
their echoes in the sur,
rounding bush; and beer,
and rum, and politics,
and policemen abounded
in conjunction with other
enervating influences of
European civilisation.
Among the early ar-
rivals on Lefroy was a long
bony, weather-beaten man
with a large and varied
experience of goldfields,
culled in his flitting*
hither and thither across
Australia from one dig-
gings to another. Mr.
Barney Brown, in com-
mon with most nomads of
his class, was extremely
resentful of authority,
and much disliked man-
agers and captains of
shifts, preferring much
the freedom of action and
liberty of speech that ac-
crues to the man who
is his own boss. These
independent sentiments
led him to turn his
attention to the shallow
alluvial along the creek,
which hitherto had
been little heeded. Hav-
ing procured a miner’s
right and chummed
in with a congenial soul, Barney marked out
a claim in a promising locality and before
sundown had the pleasure of bottoming on
wash 18 inches thick and giving pennyweight
prospects. Ihe panning-off of the first dish was
eagerly supervised by several unattached diggers,
and the immediate result was a rush on the post-
master for “rights,” and a promiscuous pegging-
out of claims. With a soft, pipe-clay “ bottom,”
a foot and a half of rich stuff easily shifted, and
an unlimited supply of Cascade beer m an adja-
cent pub. the mates took_ things extremely easy
and cheerfully surveyed the certainty of a little
pile when their holding should peg out.
Mr. Brown was 38 years of age, and, as pre.
viously intimated, long and loose; he had pale
ginger hair and whiskers, and a mild air of self-
deprecation and pensive bashfulness which, how-
ever, was very delusive, and tended to decoy
facetious strangers to their own undoing, as he
was prepared to maintain his standing against
anything that walked on end and resent an in-
fringement of his rights by the prompt and
judicious application of a pair ot fists, size
ten, and fortified with homy encrustations like
horse-warts ; and the placid urbanity with which
he undertook to knock the incautious party out of
his boots, and fulfilled the contract, was one of the
pleasantness things in nature. But Mr. Brown’s
most pronounced feature was his implacable dis-
trust of unmarried women, A spiteful treatise on
the girl of the period, written by some acrimonious
philosopher, combined with an extremely unplea-
sant legal experience with a red-haired young
female who had become convinced that he ought
to marry, despite his belief to the contrary, and
who established her opinion in a court of law,
obtaining considerable of his savings as a
recompense for the loss of his name and the
temporary smudging of her own, had served to
inspire him with a wholesome dread of the sex
early in his history, and observation and deduction
only intensified his sense of the malignity of
Woman. He entertained a hazy notion that every
single girl with whom he came in contact had in-
tentions the reverse of honourable, and harbored a
deep-laid scheme either to inveigle him into a state
of bondage or rob him by legal process, so he
regarded the sex with an eye of doubt, and held
himself severely aloof.
v , „ „ . , . , ... , , , .
.lr. Brown s hut-mates did not share his
unseemly prejudice ; they, appreciated the young
woman as an admirable institution, and belie d
her with adoration and gave way to such weak-
nesses as white shirts and hair-oil in pursuit
of .? ar , Ufc y «trove eloquently to convert them,
an. feelingly indicated the error of their ways,
and foretold a breach-of-promise case or con-
jugal infelicity , mt the\ heeded him not,
and he held his way alone. He felt that
111 **i e / r i° ,V f lIU reasons to be especially
watchful of the common enemy his bright pros-
pects and the abounding zeal of the local dam-
sels necessitating every precaution m protection of
the rights of man. Diyeis susceptible young
females cast large, languishing eyes upon the unpre
possessing Brown, and, rememberuig the rapidity
with which lus capita! in the little wooden bank
attached to a local grocery was swelling, strove,
oy d.utof gorgeous raiment and captivating smiles,
to overcome his stoical reserve , but Barney be-
held them with a calm gaze of cold discourage
■‘-‘b , alu V baste to the bar and
billiard-roorn. I o him feminine beauty was only
the bait of a trap and weU-fittmg dresses only re-
called the acrimonious philosopher s story of
depressed diaphragms, distorted livers, swivel-
hung tongues, and lungs gone wrong.
One baturday afternoon, Barney and two
chums, armed to the teeth with supplies, ammuni-
tion, and guns, departed into the leafy solitudes,
intending to travel a few miles back and spend
the Sunday in kangaroo and duck shooting,
Not having been reared in strict accordance
with the articles of the Sabbath Observance
Society, this expedition was undertaken without
trepidation, and, contrary to the literature
affected by that worthy body, none of the party
returned with a chest full of duck-shot, or an arm
blown off, or an ear carried away, or otherwise
dismembered. They had a high old time, and were
homeward bound well-laden with the spoil of the
“ A human being rolled into view and immediately sprang to its feet."
chase late on the Sunday afternoon, when Barney,
who was in the van, had his attention attracted
by a moving body that disappeared behind a tree
immediately after catching his eye. Supposing it
to be a wallaby, and intent on having another
shot, Mr. Brown dropped his load and advanced
warily to the encounter. When well within dis-
tance, he took advantage of the first glimpse of
the animal to let fly.
Horror ; a human rolled into view and
immediately sprang to Its feet. Barney was
ahnoBt paralysed with terror, his hair lifted his
hat off and his s stood out like rivets on a
boiler. The figure was that of a girl of about
nineteen—the wildest-looking girl and the tallest
that ever ran loose, bare-headed, bare-footed, and
clad in a rag of a jacket and an abbreviated skirt
that was rapidly yielding to the ravages of time,
For a few moments the uncanny creature, wild-
eyed and trembling, surveyed her assailant, then
turned and fled with the speed of a deer. About
a hundred yards off she stopped again and looked
back like a curious animal, but, when Barney
moved to advance, she turned and struck out
for parts unknown at top pace, regardless of his
wild yells pressing her to stop and realise that he
didn’t mean it. To follow would have been use-
less—she sailed through the trees like a kangaroo
under pressure, breaking all records, and was soon
lost to view amongst the saplings. On the tree
and on the grass where the girl had stood there
were traces of blood.
« ] reckon Pll ju j for th ; H ]ot ,» groaned
Barney. S *
, , ,
Mis mates had no opinion to offer, they had only
opacity for intense amazement. 1 hey were eight
nailes from the township and had never heard of a
( ' v er those wilds. Ihe only feasible solution
j. , Phenomena that presented itself was em-
bodied in the supposition that the wilderness was
stray female who had escaped into
le '’iron in her early childhood and l>een missing
8,n 7 - , . ...
The story was received with derisive incredulity
a £ lefroy, but on the Momlay afternoon following
J e i’ ac '7 0 *.• J* 7. rownand his chum was
esta blished to the satisfaction of the inhabitants,
and at t le sall l le Mystery of their adven-
'vas muc b Rbated. i wice a week a large,
hairy savage used to come crawling out of the
] ea fy solitudes, laboriously hauling on a rope
to which was attached a romnolent, screwed, and
CO ck-eyed quadruped which had the consummate
audacity to pretend to be a horse, and to which in
turn was attached an antiquated shay of Irish ex-
traction. This bucolic cm-iosity used to tow his
out .of-date animal round the town, reddling
but t er , eggs, and vegetables. He was big-boned,
skinny, and of uncertain age, having, apparently,
been s un-dried at a late stage of his existence,
or preserved for immortality by the action of
snioUe or some other curativ e process ; lie was
aolenmly taciturn and uninviting, and nobodv
troubled him with questions. Nbbody seemed
to know anything about him; when he had
eomp leted hi s circuit, he shuffled off amongst
the trees, and darkness envelopetl him.
0n t he afternoon mentioned Mr. Brown was
greatly concerned on observing this strange, wild
Specimen desert his caravan on the trade, and
bear down upon him with every demonstration of
excitement; he roared with bovine ferocity, and
brandished a whip, which our hero was distressed
to observe was loaded. He and the astonished
digger clashed and clinched at the mouth of the
shaft, there was a brief struggle, a wild upheaval
Q f pipeclay, a dull sickening thud, and when the
dust rolled by Mr. Brown was revealed astride the
chest of his fallen foe, who still foamed . ,id roared,
and poured forth the profanity that w..s prevalent
during tire last century.
Barney’s first thought was to send for whisky*
and when the potent drug arrived, he, with the
assistance of a couple of friends, administered a
large dose to the intemperate hawker by force of
arms. This treatment was repeated several times,
the patient taking to his medicine very kindly
when he caught its flavour, and when it had
calmed his angry passions he graciously explained
that he had heard Barney was the man who shot
his daughter, and he had intended, in the heat of
his feelings, to exact summary vengeance, but now
he was prepared to ac-
cept explanations. Satis-
factory explanations
were forthcoming, and
the pedlar of produce,
who introduced himself
as Abram Tooey, under
the exhilarating influence
of the grateful liquor,
developed a spirit of
festive geniality little to
be expected in one so
ancient, and departed,
after inviting the boys
out to his farm, leading
his beast of burden in a
reckless, erratic manner
and enthusiastically
carolling a bacchanalian
ditty long out of currency.
Mr. Brown and his
friends were filled with
an exceeding great curio-
sity regarding the agri-
cultural recluse and his
wild, untutored daughter.
Aman from George Town
was found who knew that
old Tooey had been
settled on a few hundred
acres somewhere down
near the sea for over fif-
teen years, and that be-
fore the outbreak of the
diggings he used to
j ourney into George Town
at stated intervals for
supplies, but as to his
family he knew nothing
about any daughter—
never heard or supposed
he had any. This only
further excited Barney’s
inquisitiveness, and lie
determined to visit the
eccentric Tooey, and have
another interview with
the wild woman of the
woods. A desire to ascer-
tain if the girl had been
much hurt, Abram’s in-
vitation, and a bottle of
whisky, he thought,
would be excuses enough.
He had no apprehensions
about visiting an uncon-
ventional young lady
who ran bare-footed in
such a skirt, showed
manifest dread of his
sex, and had been
reared beyond the degrad-
ing influence of fashion-
plates and the ways and
wiles of civilised woman.
True to his deter-
ruination, Barney, with his mate, Cioaker, set
out in search of the Tooey homestead on
the next Sunday. They followed the track
of the old shay, and after a walk of about
two hours and a-half discerned the slab estab-
lishment they were seeking. As they drew
near they were attracted by the spectacle of Miss
Tooey sitting on a log fence, sunning herself,
but that young lady no sooner caught sight of
their advancing figures than she rolled promiscu-
ously off her perch,
and out across the
paddock, showing
wonderful action and
phenomenal speed;
and they saw her a
few minutes later
surveying them with
great curiosity from
fancied security in the
fork of a tree. Mr.
Tooey did not mani-
“ Laboriously hauling on a rope to which was
attached a somnolent, screwed, and cock-eyed
quadruped."
fest any great delight at the sight of his visitors, and
asked them in with a look of sulky suspicion ; but
a glimpse of the whisky-bottle improved his tone,
and a few “ nips ” served to impart a genial con-
viviality, and make him rather communicative.
The residence was a miserable hovel furnished
with a suite hand-made by an amateur, and
fashioned from saplings principally. A smoked
old woman of most uncouth appearance arose in
speechless amazement from a three-legged stool
as they entered and drifted furtively from the
room. This was Mrs. Tooey, as her lord indi-
oated with a nod and a growl. When the whisky
had paved the way, the diggers ventured a few
interrogations. They were gratified to hear that
“ Mur Jane wasn’t hit bad ” —merely a trifle of
half-a-dozen pellets through the fleshy part of the
arm.
“ Ain’t she a sort of retirin’ young woman ?”
ventured Croaker.
“ D d if I’ve noticed much,” replied her
interesting parent slowly. Then, with the air of
a man imparting an important truth, he added :
“ She’s a wonder feat.”
“ She skipped from us’s if we was goin’ f shoot
agen’s we come along,” continued Croaker.
“ Seems to me she’s bashful.”
“ Maybe, p’raps, she is a bit backard,” said Mr.
Tooey, rattling his pannikin as a delicate intima-
tion that it was empty. “ She hasn’t seen a young
fellow since she was five year old, an’ I suppose
she’s got a notion they’re given to shootin’ that
way. ”
Here Abram afforded his guests a sketch of his
career, from which they gathered that for 15
years his wife and daughter had been drifting
into savagery in that wretched hole, not having
seen half-a-dozen strange faces in the whole of the
time.
“Towns ain’t no places for girls,” said Mr.
Tooey in conclusion, “ where they’re alius wantin’
boots, an’ dimunds, an tooth-powders. Girls
comes dear in towns. ”
This sentiment Barney seemed prepared to en-
dorse, but Croaker denounced it with great vigour,
asserting that it was an injustice to keep a girl
from communion with her kind, and advising
Abram to let his daughter visit Lefroy and obtain
some polish.
“ I don’t see as Mur Jane wants polish,” ob-
served Mr. Tooey, with some paternal pride;
“ she’ll cut scrub with the best of ’em, I bet, an’
there ain’t her equal at milkin’.”
These things were all very well, said Croaker,
but it was against nature to see a girl tearing away
from a young man, as if he was a cannibal with an
iron jaw and a large appetite. A girl in her
natural state should display a proper leaning
towards young men, and rejoice in them.
Mr. Tooey was in a pliable frame of mind, and it
required little argument to induce him to bring
his daughter in—just to convince her that young
men were not dangerous, or liable to shoot at any
moment, and to break her into them, like. Abram
went out, they heard him calling “Mur Jane ! ”
and presently he returned, dragging his lank,
awkward daughter after him, and placed her bash-
ful and trembling before her visitors, her long,
unkempt red hair falling about a very uninterest-
ing face, and her large eyes full of guileless shy-
ness. Barney ventured an apology and an inquiry
after her wounded arm, but elicited no response,
and Mary Jane, as soon as released, darted behind
the door, and surveyed the visitors wonderingly
through a crack for a short time, after which she
watched her opportunity to escape again into the
paddock, and when the young men were leaving
she followed them half-a-mile at a respectful dis-
tance, and then watched them out of sight from
the boughs of a peppermint tree.
Mr. Brown was peculiarly interested in “ Mur
Jane.” It_ was a fascinating experience to him, this
contact with a young woman who beheld him with
awe and fled from him in fear and trembling. He
visited the Tooey homestead again. He went
often, and in time the timorous daughter of the
house became somewhat reconciled to the innova-
tion, and no longer fled at his approach, but
would sit in the room, looking extremely ungainly
on the low bush-stool, surveying the visitor with
steadfast attention, and giving way to giggling
paroxysms of bashful confusion whenever he
caught her eye or addressed towards her the most
trivial remark. The spectacle of the tall, uncon-
ventional child of nature posed there in various
acute angles, breathlessly regarding him as if he
were something out of a menagerie, was a novel
one, and the situation was extremely gratifying to
his feelings a« a man and a !(*€ of creation.
Hitherto he had found the female
element demonstrative and in-
clined to “ boss the job ; ” pert
little misses in short frocks
always overawed him with their
aggressive conceit and airy non-
chalance ; in the presence of
“young ladies,” despite his six
feet of muscular manhood, he
dwindled into insignificance,
and felt meek and constrained,
whilst they prattled cheerfully
and maintained a superior mental
calm; with “Mur Jane” the
position was reversed, sheplainly
acknowledged him a greater
being, and did humble homage
to his majesty. Thus his dignity
as a man was restored, and he
fully appreciated the sense of
authority he enjoyed in her com-
pany. Besides, Miss Tooey,
being untutored in the deep
deceits that communion with her
kind alone could engender, was
not likely to attach undue im-
portance to his visits or concoct
matrimonial schemes or deep
designs for damages for breach
of promise. Truth to tell,
Barney—despite his innate
bashfulness—harboured more
than an average fondness for the
other sex in the secret recesses
of his being and his dread of
connubial bondage was only ap-
parently implacable. Mean-
while, his comparative ease in
the presence of Miss Tooey rested
partly on his inability to accept
that large, uncouth young lady,
with her native timorousness,
tanned face, wild hair, and pal-
pable muscles, as of the same
order as those dainty, designing, self-sufficient
damsels who floui’ish in towns and hamlets.
A friendship cemented by whisky grew up be-
tween Messrs. Tooey and Brown. Abram’s
gloomy taciturnity almost faded away before the
warmth and congeniality of Barney’s “ Old
Scotch,” and Mr. Brown’s Sunday afternoon
visits came to be regarded as a welcome break in
the dull monotony of “tending” cows and going
to bed, then getting up and “tending” cows
again. Very soon “Mur Jane” displayed a
burning desire to appear to better advantage
before the visitor. This intuitive weakness first
took form in the shape of a large, battered brass
locket which the unsophisticated creature hung
about her neck on a piece of braid ; subsequently
a monstrosity of millinery, a bonnet of fearful
ugliness and great antiquity, was unearthed from
beneath the dust of ages ; a moth-eaten skirt,
which was a relic of Mr. looey’s late lamented
maternal grandparent, and might have had some
pretension to style a century ago, was next turned
to a count; a faded ribbon, a large artificial flower
of an unknown species, and a lot of other ancient
finery followed, all of which grandeur Miss Tooey
paraded with undisguised rapture and innocent
artlessness to the great distress of her parent who
upbraided her extravagance and warned her to be


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell's Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
Be on your guard for Frauds when purchasing.
m
iy
Watch Manufacturer & Jeweller,
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
For Watches and Jewellery, send for my Price List
( Illustrated). Post Free.
___ The Unrivalled Keyless Watch.
Guaranteed. Post Free. 30b.
Gent.’s English Levers (full cap) from £8 10s.
Ladies* Beautiful Silver Watches from £1 10s.
Gold Watches and Jewellery of every description.
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A- SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS!
For Good, Useful , Amusing or Instructive Christmas
Presents, ice ivish to draw attention to the following goods.
At this time of the year
Magic Lanterns
are always in great demand. Our Lanterns are always
good and serviceable, not mere toys, and this year really
cheaper than ever, as will be seen by the following prices.
Black Enamel (English pattern) Lanterns, with brass
mounts, three lenses, lamp with globe, 1 doz. set well*
coloured slides, in case complete I ,
ţ
ť
We have a very choice little outfit, in case, with lock
and key and everything complete, called
The “ CLIMAX,” price £2 10s.
This is made entirely of polished brass, and is a perfect
gem. The slides revolve instead of sliding, and include
with each Lantern such interesting subjects as Robinson
Crusoe, Red Riding Hood, Puss-in - Boots, Elephant's
Revenge, celebrated men, Ac. (eight pictures to each tale),
as well as comic, moving and rotating slides. The whole
forms ope of the neatest, nicest, and most fascinating
presents that could be chosen.
Model Steam Engines.
Model Steam Boats.
In immense variety at extremely moderate prices. These
are excellent presents for the boys, as besides being always
amusing’and entertaining they are also instructive. We
have perfect working
Mode! Vertical Engines at ... 4/6 to £3 0
Model Steam Locomotives at 7/6 to 3 5
Model Steam Boats at ... 10/- to 215
111 fitted with safety valve, so that there need be no fear
tf explosion or railway calamities.
Optimus (regdd Watches, 18s. 6d. each.
These marvellous Watches are too well-known to need
much description here. We have dozens of them showing
in our windows, and have every confidence that those who
try them will fully endorse our statement that they are the
handsomest, cheapest and bbst timekeepers ever made.
Opera and Field Glasses.
We have some very special goods in these. For the
ladies, handsome and powerful glasses in cases (leather or
plush), combining at once the reticule or handkerchief
bag and the opera glass case—price, 30/- and 35/- We have
Opera Glasses at all prices, from 7/6. To those wishing to
make their gentlemen friends presents, we would strongly
recommend our new “ Randwick ” Field Glass (just im-
ported), the best we have ever had. Wonderfully power-
ful glasses in leather and nickel, and contained in a solid
buff leather case, with sling. In. three sizes—40/-, 45/, 50/-
Photographic Outfits.
What nicer present could be made to the boys than
these. By them, perfect, well-finished photos, can, with
very little trouble, be taken of everybody and everything,
and afford endless amusement to everyone. We have the
complete turnout for carte de visite pictures for £3, and
the same thing for cabinet pictures for £4 10s. Ours is
the best and cheapest place in Sydney for all kinds of
photographic goods.
Spectacles and Eye-Glasses
In silver and gold frames (in handsome cases), form highly
pleasing and acceptable presents to the old folks. We
have splendid Brazilian Peebles in
Silver Frames at 17/6 to 22/6 ;
Gold Frames at 25/-, 30/-, 35/- to 50/-
Initials or names stamped in gold on cases without extra
charge.
Microscopes, Telescopes, Barometers,
Stereoscopes and Slides, &c.
We cannot mention here all the really beautiful goods
we have suitable for Christmas presents, but feel sure that
a visit to either of our shops will prove highly entertain-
ing, and enable all to invest their money in good, useful
things instead of wasting it in rubbish.
FROST A^SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers. Opticians, Electrician*,
474 George Street (opposite Fruit Markets),
557 George Street (near Liverpool Street),
SYDNEY.
careful of “that ’ere hat " wmcn ne averred hei
mother was married in and cost four and’eight-
pence, besides the lining.
Barney beheld Mary Jane’s assumption of style
with an inauspicious eye; he regarded the out-
rageous bonnet particularly as a wicked frivolity
“ She advanced hesitatingly towards him coyly
chewing the faded ribbon and grinning her old grin
of shy distress.”
and as an evidence that Miss Tooey was animated
by vanities entirely unaccountable in a young
lady reared in the wilderness beyond the insidious
influence of her sex. At about this time, too,
Mary Jane, without abating her giggling, and
wriggling, and her timorous diffidence, began to
assume an air of having a vested interest in the
visitor, which assumption of proprietorship gave
rise to painful conjecture in the mind of Mr.
Brown, and caused him to have serious doubts and
misgivings about the advisability of continuing
his visits to the Tooey homestead. Whilst yet
doubtful he was one Sunday morning assisted to
a decision by the conduct of his hut-mates. These
facetious gentlemen had long amused themselves
with ironical conjectures regarding Brown’s inten-
tions in pursuing the rude, untutored Tooey, and
remarks more or less sarcastic anent his pronounced
antipathy to matrimony. On the Sunday morn-
ingin question, assuming unconsciousness of the
subject of their observations they indulged in
sotto voce soliloquies and interesting speculations
regarding hypothetical nuptials in which Mr.
Brown and Miss Mary Jane Tooey, eldest and
only daughter of Abram Tooey, Esq., of Piper, Tas-
mania, figured conspicuously in conjunction with
an imaginary parson. The bride’s trousseau was
minutely if inelegantly described, and Home and
Victorian papers were earnestly requested to copy.
Croaker, in a deep mental abstraction, was heard
to observe that it was understood the happy man
intended augmenting his collection with a three-
legged duck and a two-headed wombat and open-
ing a menagerie of living curiosities. Barney
could not stand much of this badinage; he up-
lifted himself in his bunk, swore at his mates
collectively and in turn, and visited Tooey’s no
more.
A few weeks went by and Abram passed no re-
marks ; he made his usual bi-weekly visits, drag-
ging after him his bow-legged and cross-eyed horse
and back-dated shay, remained as saturnine as of
of yore, and gave no indications of having noticed
Barney’s neglect. One fine morning, however,
the people of Lefroy were astonished to see Mr.
Tooey emerging from the trees hauling his horse
more desperately than was his wont, whilst the
shay swayed dangerously under the additional
burden of a long fantastically-dressed female dis-
guised in a scoop-shaped bonnet of the reign of
Canute the First. Near Brown’s claim the appari-
tion dismounted, and Barney, who was on top
pulling wash, was distressed on recognising “Mur
Jane ” in the awful tile her mother had handed
down to posterity and the worm-eaten skirt that
had been in the family nearly a century, and dis-
playing the battered brass locket and the artificial
flower to the best advantage. He was much more
concerned to see her advance hesitatingly towards
him, coyly chewing the faded ribbon and grinning
her old grin of shy distress. She mounted the tip
and stood there, looking dreadfully idiotic, and
giggling vacantly in response to his salutations,
whilst he felt that a sudden attack of something
fatal would be a relief from the strain he was
undergoing. Old Tooey had gone on his round
and left “Mur Jane ” to keep him company, and
all the men “on top ” had taken up commanding
positions to enjoy the interview, and the men
from below were swarming to the surface like
startled ants, and there leisurely filled their pipes
in evident anticipation of a protracted entertain-
ment. Barney maintained his stand for five
minutes, then Miss Tooey’s painful diffidence in a
public place, her bonnet, and those dumb but
appreciative spectators, became too many for him,
and he deserted the windlass, and fled ignomini-
ously off the field.
After that Miss Tooey often visited the township
with her parched sire, and, while he pushed his
business, she sought out Mr. Brown, and blighted
him with her bonnet and her abashed giggle. She
descended on him at unexpected moments, and
stared aimlessly at him, and followed him pur-
poselessly, till he was laughed and chaffed to the
verge of insanity, and fought two men every
day in . desperate endeavour to relieve his feel-
ings. Mary Jaiie looked him up two or three
times during the week, and visited the hut on
Sundays. She would seek him in the bars and
billiard-rooms and other public places, and afflict
ner pensive baby stare and her maidenly confusion
upon him, till the homage that had once been a
source of gratification to him became the bane of
his existence.
At length an expedient occurred to Mr. Brown,
he decided to remain below, and would have slept
below had “Mur Jane” rendered that course
necessary. On Sunday, the sight of Miss Tooey’s
rggravating smile was the signal for him to bolt
ior the claim, and he would sit away in a drive
till sundown, playing Yankee-grab with himself,
or earnestly speculating on the outrageousness of
women in every walk of life. Of course this
brought more ridicule on his devoted head, but it
secured his object, and very soon after Miss Tooey’s
visits ceased.
A short time later Barney was looking quite
cheerful once more, and resting placidly under the
assurance that he had seen the last of Mary
Jane, and was not likely to be again haunted
by her ungainly person or troubled by obtrusive
attentions, when one day, as he and his mates
were sitting at dinner, a digger who had been up
to Launceston bounced in with an air Of great
importance and a mission that would admit of no
delay.
“Say, Brown,” gasped the intruder, “ hev yer
seen Tooey’s girl lately ?
Barney arose, sadly, slowly, but with a deter-
mined purpose ; he crossed over the hut, and run-
ning the knuckle end of his large fist up the dig-
ger’s jaw with a suggestive gesture he said :
“ Now, Henry Peter Spooner, that game’s stale
—it’s worked out and hung up, an’ if there’s any-
thin’ more sed I’m goin’ to fight.”
“No larks, Barney; ’pon me soul I was jest
askin’ yer. Aint ye, though ?” continued the ex-
cited Spooner in apologetic tones. “ All square
and no larks.”
“ Naw. Don’t want to.”
“I have.”
“ Don’t care a hang.”
“By thunder, you do though. She’s up town—
I saw her. Up town in a big bustle and a fashion-
able hat that high, takin’ out proceedin’s for a
breach of promise.”
Barney’s fork stopped half-way to his mouth (he
had resumed his seat), his jaw remained open for
a moment, then he made a desperate gulp at the
atmosphere, swallowed nothing with great diffi-
culty, and whispered earnestly:
“Against who did you say, Spooner?”
“ Agin you.”
That was enough. Barney wanted no more
dinner; he laid down his knife and fork, took up
AN EX-JOCKEY. AS SEEN AT KOROIT (VIC.) SHOW.
his hat, and went out. Presently he returned,
and thrust his pale face in at the door.
“ You’re sure it’s a breach of promise and agin
me Spooner, are ye ?” he queried.
Spooner was sure, and Barney retreated again.
He went to the local bank and drew his money,
then he sought the hut again and rolled up his
swag without a word. That done, he remarked
tersely :
“ I’m off, boys, tip us yer fist.”
“ What! goin’ right away ?” gasped Croaker.
“My eye. Goin’to catch the boat at the Heads
and get right out of this. So long! ”
They tried to persuade him there was stuff
enough in his claim to see him through the suit,
and that “ Mur Jane ” had no case, but he was
determined.
“ I tried it once before,” he said. “ Breaches
of promise is h .” And he went.
EDWARD DYSON.
Personal Items.
There are now in Sari Francisco over 140
millionaires.
The Sultan of Morocco takes about with
him a contingent of 75 wives.
A N.S.W. local-option member was re-
cently carried into the Assembly to record his
vote.
The N.Y. World says that the rumour
that the Prince of Wales has Bright’s disease is
confirmed.
A nephew of the famous Peninsular
French general, Marshal Soult, lives at Waterloo,
near Sydney.
Mr. Pilcher, Q.C., who defended Raper,
had his brief marked 150 guineas ; and he got a
“refresher ” on the second day.
Ivory is worth over £2OOO per ton, and
those advertising “humanitarian” brigands, Ex-
plorer Stanley and Co., have over 600 tons of it.
The Bulletin does not wonder at Garland,
M.P., buying the Australian rights of Edison's
phonograph. Charles always did like to hear
himself talk.
The great pastoral philanthropist, Mr.
Locky M‘Bean, has bought another freehold
station, Kinadeen, near Albury, just under 30,000
acres in extent.
“The Prince of Wales is a very brave
man. He is said to be afraid of but one thing.”
“ What’s that ?” “ That he’ll die before his
mother. ” —Puck.
From Melbourne Argus it would appear
as if Searle, by injudicious conduct on board the
Austral between Suez and Colombo, brought on
the illness to which he succumbed.
Emperor William has prohibited the use
of the word “cigar” on account of its French
origin. In future, the fragrant weed is to be
known in Germany as “ ranch-rolle.”
The estate of old Tom Monahan, of El-
sternwick (Vic.), who landed at Sydney a penni-
less immigrant 50 years ago, contributed £48,150
to the Victorian revenue as probate duty alone.
D. B. W. Sladen will publish a volume
soon entitled “Younger American Poets.” Sladen,
on the strength of a recent visit to America and
Canada, will, we presume, be the principal con-
tributor. »
The Darlinghurst confinee, Arthur Wil-
loughby Andrews, committed for the shooting of
Mr. Bartlett, continues to prejudice his case by
deluging the papers with doggerel. No juror was
ever born who would not delight in slaughtering a
gaol-poet.
In January next, Louis Kossuth will be-
come a man without a country. He will, on the
9th of that month, complete the period of absence
from Hungary which will terminate and forfeit
his citizenship of that country. The whole world
is now his Fatherland.
The Honorable David Buchanan, M.L.C.,
says he “ has no sympathy with rascality.” Yet
we have heard it said that Mr. David Buchanan,
barrister-at-law, is proud of the alleged fact that
he has caused the acquittal of more rascals than
any other man who wears a “ stuff ” gown.
The coroner who refused to allow Mr.
John Knatchbull, the murderer, to be driven in a
carriage and pair to Darlinghurst Gaol, was a
well known Irish attorney named John Ryan
Brennan, who owned the estate at Balmain called
“ Garryowen ” whereon now stands Gallon Park
Lunatic Asylum,
David Christie Murray, the author of
“Joseph’s Coat,” following a London custom,
applied for two free passes at an Adelaide theatre.
He was refused. He was telling the story to
Bonython, of the ’Tiber, and remarked, “They
knew not Joseph.” “No,” added Bonython,
quickly, “Nor ‘Joseph’s Coat.’” —Quiz.
Premier Parkes looks positively awful
when he sulks : a thunderstorm in the tropics is as
nothing to it. A few nights ago Mr, Speaker
ruled him out of order, hut added that if the
House pleased he could be heard. The House did
please, but Henry sulked, and, in the expressive
words of a member, “put a lip on like a mother-
less foal.”
R. S. Smythe is nothing if not critical.
Coming out from Dr. Neild’s lecture on “Crema-
tion ” in the Melbourne Temperance Hall on
a recent night, somebody asked him what he
thought of the system. The Much Travelled
replied that the idea was good, but in many cases
it might be advantageously carried out several
years earlier.
The Bulletin lately referred to Dr. George
Bennett as the oldest medical practitioner in Syd-
ney. We are now informed that Dr. Hansard, of
Summer Hill (late of Redfern), is still practising
his profession at the age of 86. He is grandson of
the well-known English Parliamentary Printer,
who was succeeded by his son, father of the
venerable doctor.
The little German Crown Prince “ has in-
herited some of the pleasing qualities of his
father.” While out driving with his governess
recently be grew tired of returning the salutations
of the people. “Unless you acknowledge the
cheers,” said the governess, “I cannot continue
to drive with you.” “ Coachman !” said the in-
fant Crown Prince, “ this lady will now get out. ’
Lieutenant-General Sir Andrew Clarke, the
British Inspector-General of Fortifications, whoso
artful opinions concerning Federation are now
being quoted, was private secretary to Sir William
Denison in Tasmania ; later on he was Surveyor-
General of Victoria, and, under responsible
government, was a member of the first Haines
Cabinet and represented Sandridge in the Assem-
bly.
Bismarck one evening attended a gathering
of prominent men at the house of a Russian noble-
man. During all the conversation he was parti-
cularly sarcastic, cutting friends and opponents
unsparingly. When he rose to leave and walked
downstairs, the host called a pet dog that was
frisking about and led him aside. “ Are you
afraid the dog will bite me?” asked Bismarck.
“No,” replied the host, “I am afraid you will
bite the dog.” The gi’im Chancellor took this as a
compliment and went away smiling.


TO ARABELLAG, OF SACRAMENTO
j'/l
You ask me why T love you, Sweet
(Jo, ask the silly moth that Hies
Into the burning flame, to meet
■ <r» I^lo
A death unpitied, why he dies?
Since mother Eve first ask’d the reasoi
What lover ever yet could tell 1
But love, like fruit when out of season
Is sweet without a reason. Belle !
I I love you, Sweet ! because tis ni
NELLIE.
At jlast. in \vondcrin<- pridij*, I see
\ \ Njiagara’i eternal Falls :j( I
but, rnirist. the scepe entrant-ini' me, /1\
I My Nellie for her lover calls ml
~Z- r-> 6 c<. /f s A> e r<*
Lays of Love and Longr i ng:
Illustrated extracts from Premier Parkes’ rece [?]y-published book, “Fragmentary Thoughts.”


RAGGED JANE. ' lllfi
I would not give my ragged Jane W/j lyplfl
Bor all the peacock ladies going. wf n |
She knows the way to banish pain —
What she don’t know is not worth knowing.
But nevei ’midst Antarctic storms,
When ocean’s wrath was swelling,
Or ’mid th’ equator’s burning calms,
. Have I forgot my Helen.
llow many who were foremost in the race
Haye been trapslated to '‘another place !
THE STRONG MAN
Like a rock that breasts the sea,
Firm he stood, in front of foes
hen the summer.days decline ; t
Think how soon the time will be o—4
h. lien my eyes shall feast on thine,
When my lips shall press thy lips,
When my arms shall hold thee fast ,1
Cruel seas and lonely ships I
filings for ever with the past. j(lwj
Wo sleep oq beds of sweetest straw,
Th‘ ophfesiiiii cloak thrown o’er as.
tii" must xtiramgrai otn. J
Ah, then the weary thinking lean
H ith cold prophetic heaving,
Began to feel how large oarl
Of life s sweet things tr.vas leaving.
maiden m h Howmy nook
He own origin spot of guruon ground—
Sat, sweetly studious oei a hook.
pr poet’s story spell-like bound ,
and Longr i ng:
[?]y-published book, “Fragmentary Thoughts.”


sof tono & jyLcoew-eotca {Uc 1 t
anD>
bmis c^uxcHo.
ŧ
OXiVo Uvt
ScM fn&ucctiX
fay t cixieA
F, B* WHEELER & C0 M
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simp’e remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of forty years’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BT
James lixglia & Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
S3&V
(Bo
INC
m
jS ole. . F.
IMfi mE
SSff
po/t'rM
ro.
URORAr. IND
'^'FSEEUR&kj^
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of KiTew Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Hebei, Fenrich, Lipp, Eonisch, Bluthner, Collard, and other
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £45 and Sstey Organa. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
All who remember the Tichborne trial
must have a dim recollection of the photo, of a fat
little boy—labelled “ the Rightful Heir ’’—staring
at them from shop windows. That fat little boy
is a man now, and he has been getting through the
Tichborne possessions at such a deuce of a pace
that the highly-moral Tummy was recently
petitioned to read him a private lecture on the
duties of the aristocracy and the wickedness of
getting into debt. According to all accounts
young Sir Roger Tichborne has turned penitent in
time, otherwise there wouldn’t have been any
estates left for the fat Wagga butcher to swear he
is “kep’ out of by a base conspiracy.” Which
reminds us that Arthur Orton can’t now be quite so
young as he was.
* * *
Australian ladies who have husbands going
“home ” on business will do well to warn them of
the snares and dangers which await such innocents
in St. Paul’s Cathedral. To the careless visitor
that historic sanctuary seems a cool, shady retreat,
suitable for lofty meditation and silent prayer.
According to the Bishop of London, however, St.
Paul’s is a very “warm” shop indeed, where seal-
skin-jacketed syrens breathe words of unholy love
to gentlemen engaged in gazing at monuments and
reading memorial tablets erected in honour of
victorious manslaughterers. The Bishop, to put.
the matter roughly, says that Westminster Aqua-
rium isn’t in it, for real right-down giddiness,
with the Cathedral. Only recently he visited the
famous Whispering Gallery, and was hondfied to
hear the sweet, silvery voice of a yellow-haired
girl pleading—“ Well, ducky, will you stand me
a whisky-and-soda?” Which circumstance throws
considerable light upon the fondness of distin-
guished Australian colonists for haunting the
sanctuary in question, and if any absent husband
should mention in his next letter that he has spent
a pleasant afternoon in St. Paul’s Cathedral —
well, we recommend his wife *-o go back to mother
without more ado.
# * *
When the last of poor Harry Searle was
being sent off from Spencer-street station, Mel-
bourne, a certain honorary official dodged around
among the newspaper-reporters, exerting them not
to forget to mention that the “distinguished com-
pany on the platform included Mr. Blank, vice-
consul for Tierra del Fuego ” —or some similar dis-
trict. The vice-consular desire for press-notices
is pathetic in its earnestness, and deserves every
encouragement. Were it not for the Mr. Blanks
of Australia our rising generation wouldn’t know
that some places have any existence in fact.
# # *
A funny story attaches to the heroine of a
recent “swell” Australian wedding, the lucky
man of which was a young new-chum, by the
way. The bride’s parents didn’t claim to be
aristoerarians at the time of their daughter’s
birth, and not dreaming of an exalted future they
had the little pledge of affection christened plain
.Sarah Ann. But as their ideas and cash in hand
expanded it was deemed necessary to tone down
the dreadful error of long ago. So the bells went
a-ringing for Sahara, instead of Sairey, and the
bridegroom finds himself hitched to a namesake
of the Great Desert. Fancy taking the fair oasis
to his heart as “ my own Sahara ! ”
# # *
There was food for much cynical reflection
in the carryings-on of a wild-eyed female who
sailed from Australia on the Iberia this
last trip. She was a loving wife, alleged to
be going “ home,” unaccompanied by her lord, to
claim a fortune. And when the steamer put off
from the pier it took captain, crew, and half the
passengers to hold back this wild-eyed wife as she
struggled madly to leap over the gunwale into the
arms of him she loved. “Never mind the for-
tune-let, O let me stay with my Adolphus,”
shrieked the lady, until Adolphus was lost to
view. He meanwhile seemed to accept the situa-
tion in a philosophical spirit, and thought, per-
haps, that like the Player Queen in “ Hamlet,”
his kttle wifey-pifey did protest too much.
Among the crowd of folks on the pier
there was at least one individual who had
studied the effect of a sea-voyage upon lovely
woman’s grief. That individual—which is ourself
—has seen a distracted widow prevented from
jumping overboard as the remains of her late
lamented were committed to the briny deep. We
say “ prevented,” although it wasn’t quite certain
that the lady’s desire for death didn’t spring from
the sweet conviction that the first officer was hold-
ing her round the waist with a tender grip. Any-
way, she neglected to take one of ten thousand
subsequent opportunities to drown herself, and
within the first week of her widowhood she
might have been seen, in a shadowy nook of the
vessel, sitting, peacefully enough, on that same
first officer's knee. Her Adolphus was dead - long
live Adolphus !
Pastor Jefferis’ statement that during his
ministry at Sydney he spent £3OO or £4OO a year
(presumably out of his snug private income) more
than he officially received is, we take it, an argu-
ment in favour of giving his sainted successor
£l5OO a year—and should this successor when on the
eve of tearfully departing for Hingland in the luxu-
rious saloon of a first-class mail-boat complain that
his £l5OO a year left him with a shortage of £5OO,
the faithful flock will have to provide another
£5OO, And so ad infinitum ?
* # #
Premier Parkes still continues to publish
in the Sydney papers, letters which he receives
from distinguished people abroad. Such vulgar
ostentation makes us ill. There are none so
courteous as the truly great. The poorest man in
this country has only to write a civil and brainy
—or even a foolish—letter to any leader of thought
in any centre of civilisation to receive a prompt
and pleasant answer. For example, poor Wesley
Caddy had whole reams of letters from Herbert
Spencer, and we have known men who were utter
strangers to Gambetta and Thiers to receive from
those great men lengthy autographic communica-
tions. To come nearer home, we have seen Mr.
Ellery, the Victorian Government astronomer,
one of Australia’s chief scientists, spend an hour
in telling an inquisitive policeman all about the
moon: and, by the way, it just occurs to us
Ul\ e
a infeck
\
WKen H.M-Hie, |nvt
Saw fhe N'S'W *4 sl?imp
(without her st>ts) she »vas
rnath at fKg,
"ATfisr? jfa(ter<ng ref)mm =
‘Paf'cn of f^cxjal
Bw,f <m closer
vvhcrL she Sow JT wot
wvi|tj an ema aji* er ai1....
L v. ~ f
that Peter Campbell, the bush-missionary, used
to flourish a yard - and-a-half letter from no
less a personage than W. E. Gladstone. Why,
even we ourselves have graciously condescended
to autograph ically answer—but no matter. Old
man Parkes, instead of writing abominably twad-
dling verses and entering into foreign correspon-
dence, with an eye to vain glory, had better sit
down and answer his official letters —as he didn’t
in the case of Admiral Fairfax and half-a-score of
others we could name.
* # #
A Melbourne paper professes to be lost in
admiration for Lord Hopetoun’s genius for giving
“ a varied and really appropriate reply to each of
the deputations ” which roll up with their pre-
posterous addresses of grovel. Hopetoun is, in-
deed, a lord of infinite variety. To one fat mayor
he says that he is “ deeply touched,” and to the
next he observes that he is “ much impressed ”
by such protestations of “loyalty” to “Her
Gracious Majesty’s person,” or “ the person of
Her Gracious Majesty.” About 30 words, pre-
iiared for him by 93 private secretaries, constitute
lopetoun’s official vocabulary. On those words
he rings everlasting changes, and when he hap-
pens to get more mixed than usual the poor
young man fires off “ Gracious Majesty, haw,”
and relapses into a chair. He’s extraordinarily
clevah.
« * *
Dress Cii’de Lady: ‘ ‘ Isn’t that fat man
we saw at the door Lilian Freelove’s ex-husband?”
Friend of the Family : “ No. I believe that gentle-
man is still officiating, technically speaking.”
# * #
Sandhurst Town Council, in the course of
their inevitable illuminated crawl to Lord Hope-
toun, said :—“ We hail the arrival of your Excel-
lency amongst us as an omen of continued pro-
sperity.” Now, considering that the poor Gov.
fainted directly he was fairly at work, where
the dickens does that “omen” come in? The
young man is more like a solemn warning of
Elijah Egeson’s drought, although, judging from
his reply, he is a firm believer in his own “ Mas-
cotte ” properties. For Hopetoun—-bless his fresh
young heart! —acknowledged the grovel as fol-
lows ;—“ I cordially join with you in the hope
that my arrival here may prove a benefit to the
best interests of the country, and conduce o the
permanent well-being of the people .” Ha, ha!
likewise Hee ! hee! Are you surprised, dear
friends, that His Excellency couldn’t pass the
Sandhurst (“home” Sandhurst) military exam, in
two desperate tries ?
« « *
The dispute between the engineers and
the captains of Howard Smith’s boats is a matter
for conciliatory arrangement, as the trouble, if
carried further, will strike a death-blow at the
safety of our coastal travelling. The house divided
against itself must fall. One can easily under-
stand the necessity of a captain being absolutely
supreme on his own ship, but one can also see how
irritating it must be for a highly - educated
specialist like an engineer to have his work over-
seen by a deck-officer, who, apart from the limited
knowledge requisite for the attainment of a cer-
tificate in navigation and seamanship, may not
know B from a bull’s foot. The arrangements of
the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z. are such as to obviate
friction between captain and engineer and afford a
model for imitation,
# # #
A Melbourne Cremation Society is in
course of construction. This is a step in the right
direction—as the burglar said when he trod on a
policeman.
Speech-days are all the go, and the learned
pedagogues trot out their young prigs. Mean-
while, rich parents are anxious, feeling that the
present system of education wholly fails to give
them the advantage of their money. Everybody
is educated as if he were going to be a school-
master, the pedagogue’s ideal. He is ground up
in Homer, Virgil, and a lot of other nonsense—
from a practical point of view. These are mere
ornamental things. If a man has a taste that way
let him follow it. Parents want to understand
how their boys are being fitted for their work in
life, and this question has been so often asked of
the authorities of Sydney Grammar School that
these latter mean to mend their ways by institu-
ting a purely commercial department. The old
question arises—what comes of the prize boys?
Some of them sleep out in the Domain o’ nights
after countless hundreds have been spent on their
education or rather destruction. But what shall
we say to the new system of stuffing the girls with
Algebra, Euclid, Greek, Latin, and all that —from
the point of view of cooking a dinner ? The Dux
blue stocking and blue nose ! What a nice girl J
Schoolmasters are very inferior men as times go.
They ought to be the pick of the community.
* # *
Mr. O’Malley Clarke, S.M., has decided
that it is not “ cruelty ” to tie a boy of 12 across a
box, put a stick in his mouth as a gag, give him
24 lashes with a sash-line and then chain him up
by the leg, The C.P.S., to whom the lad was
brought, swore the chain had to be cut off the leg,
and medical evidence showed that there were
bruises on the groin, thigh, back, &c., and that
the ankle and foot were swollen. However, much
can be overlooked in a country which deliberately
sanctions the brutal sights seen in the flogging-
yards of Australian gaols. The legal skinning-
alive of men kinks the minds even the magis-
tracy.
* * *
Old Sydneyites are fond of referring to
the pre-Abigail days when Archdeacon Cowper
and Father Therry would walk arm-in-arm down
George-street, and when Dr. Lang and Bishop
Barker would pay friendly visits to Archbishop
Folding and vice versa. The men who whoop the
yellow pup on his wild career have stopped all
that, but somehow religion doesn’t seem to be any
the better for the change.
* * *
The VA.T.O. are to be honoured by
Hopetoun’s first appearance on an Australian
race-course. He goes to Caulfield on Boxing Day.
The V.R.C. have secured the little earl for New
Year’s Day at Flemington.
* * *
What was good enough for Loch is hot
good enough for Hopetoun. The latter has a baby
and a bigger suite, you know. And so the Vic-
torian Public Works Department has been in-
formed that the Macedon gubernatorial residence
must be improved and enlarged.
A story comes to us of an R.C. clergyman
down South who, the other day, had reason to
complain of the prevalence of small coin among
the contributions. Therefore he, in a lengthy
sermon, expostulated with the faithful on the
subject, but in vain, for when the offertorial bag
returned it only contained twelve “ thrums,” one
sixpence and one penny. Whereupon his reverence
When a party is dead and his spirit has fled
To a land where there’s no impropriety,
He is carted away and allowed to decay
In the coffin of modern society ;
And while he is sleeping fat maggots are creeping
And making remarks anatomical
(If the truth were but known) as they come to the
bone
In the course of their feats gastronomical.
By worms to be fed on, when he is a dead ’un,
P’raps Nature meant man in creating him,
But a far sweeter way of destroying his clay
Is this process of incinerating him.
And, as on the fire most folks that expire
Are bound to be very soon grilling,
’Tis folly to wait, so at once to cremate
They ought to be ready and willing.
The poet who’s dying may drivel of lying
To nourish the roots of a wattle ;
But better by far to be put in a jar,
Or kept by mamma in a bottle.
So, here’s to the faggots, instead of the maggots !
(The toast isn’t meant for impiety),
For the future prepare and apply for a share
In the Melbourne Cremation Society.
THE NEW GOVERNOR.
(TRIOLET.)
He’s quite an Apollo,
This belted young Earl.
Although his head’s hollow
He’s quite an Apollo
For toadies to follow.
He’s fresh as a girl,
He’s quite an Apollo,
This belted young Earl.
W. E. HAMMOND.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 —KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 9J per cent.
12 Months 84 per cent.
0 Months 7 4 per cent.
3 Months 54 per cent.
6 percent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will lie
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Use Batho’8 Baking Powder.
Artificial Teeth (high-class dentistry) at Reform
Fees. Full Set Vulcanite, £5; Gold and Vulca-
nite £10: Gold, £15. Nitrous Oxide Gas daily,
10s. 6d. J. I. Marshall, Dentist. Only address —
410 George-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
WHY YOU SHOULD USE
Scott's Emulsion
wOod Liver OH
HYPOPHOSPHITES.
It is used and endorsed by Physi-
cians because it is the best •
It is Palatable as Milk.
It is three times as efficacious as plain
Cod Liver Oil.
It is far superior to all other so-called
Emulsions.
It is a perfect Emulsion, does not sepa-
rate or change,
It is wonderful as a flesh producer.
It is the best remedy for Consumption,
Scrofula, Bronchitis, 'Wasting Dis-
eases, Chronic Goughs and Colds.
Sold by all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWNE. New York.
ROBERTSON’S W H!BKY *
£2OO
PRIZES.
GTVFiN AWAY IN THE COIjOXIES
AS FOLLOWS :
1« of £5 each, 25 &2, and 70 £l,
Pamphlets from the Asfents, A-XjXjT
& 00.. Limited,
CHARLOTTE PLACE. SYDNEY
arose in a towering rage, and, to the consternation
of all, threw the plate and its contents among the
faithful, exclaiming, “Keep your mangy threepenny
pieces, ye mean, dirty, low scoundrels. I’ll have
none of them. And what’s more, I’ll write to the
Cardinal and get removed if you can’t support me
in a decent manner. ” Then he walked out of the
chapel without another word.
* * #
A prominent Sydney photographer reckons
that the Sydney Lancers, who, as the world
knows, are got up even more gorgeously than the
wildest caricature-soldiers ever produced in pan-
tomime regardless .of expense, are on the average
worth £4OOO a year to the Sydney photographers.
One nobleman belonging to the distinguished
corps named (which numbers in all about 60 or 70
men and sartorial artists, inclusive of 45 officers or
so) has within eight months ordered forty-three
dozen pictures of himself on his fiery charger.
Who gets ’em ? The barmaids ?
* * #
It has just occurred to us that the
“ wealthy lower orders ” are born with a silver
knife in their mouth.
# # #
In the dusty land of Australia the way of
the society reporter is hard, and the Jenkins of
the daily press earns his precarious alleged living
amid much tribulation. We say “his,” for
though the literary Jenkins invariably writes as
“Fairy” or “Bumble Bee” or something else
equally soft and poetic it happens as often as not
that it is of the male persuasion. He is a re-
ceptacle for useless knowledge and idiotic gush, a
dust-bin for soulfulness and heart-yearnings, a
tip-dray for the utter and the unspeakable; he is
the dumping ground of impassioned drivel, and
his life is a plaintive melody occasionally rising to
a scream. He has to know everything that isn’t
worth knowing. In the course of his business he
studies the underclothing of the upper classes,
and if he is to rise to eminence he must be able to
look at the back view of a society lady at a
theatre and tell exactly what she has on right
down to her skin, and also how it is trimmed and
whether it is hem-stitched or worked at the
corners, and whether she has her initials on her
stockings, and if she hasn’t why hasnt
she, and also if she means to have them
put on, and if she has them on the stockings she
has left at home. He has to know all the move-
ment of dear Lady Smith, and when she goes to
the races he must record the exact moment at
which she stepped into her “ barouche.” He has
to know everybody in the grand-stand, ahd.he'has
to change his spot constantly, as the Ghinh# ISper
ought to do but doesn’t, so as to focus the elite
and keep his bilious, shifting eye on the upper
circles. At public entertainments he sits on a
hard seat near the door in order to spot everybody
who comes in and make a note of what they have
on and how they would look if they hadn’t got it
on, and in the course of these labours he
has to acquire a deep knowledge of colours,
and must be able to distinguish elephant’s
breath from giraffe-sneeze at the very first
go, so as to keep it from getting mixed
up with hippopotamus blush or mule aggravation,
or some other subdued tint. Further, he needs to
be a walking encyclopaedia of recipes for removing
freckles and such things. The society Jenkins
is a locomotive gush-machine, a handy driveller;
the living embodiment of that great work, “Every
Man his own Ass he hangs on with malignant
persistence to old, burning yarns about the way
to shove bulky, strong-lunged females into ridi-
culously small garments, and he writes columns
about rich elderly ladies who look like cooks, and
who go about dressed in baby-blue and cultivate
an artless stare. _ We don’t know what becomes
of him when he dies.
* * *
Sydney Echo says that the new Melbourne
Governor “is guaranteed Australian fame by
giving his name to an eatable.” Haggis? The
Hopetoun haggis is nicely alliterative.
* * *
Pawnbroker —a man who charges you ex-
orbitantly for holding your coat while you fight
for your life.
# * *
As a pal, woman is simply angelic. As a
boss, she is perfect—Sheol. If she had the fran-
chise, would she make it the first point in her
charter that the drapers’ shops should be kept
open all night:—
WOMAN’S RIGHTS AND EARLY CLOSING.
To the Editor ‘ Gvmpie Times.’
Dear Sir, —Passing along Mary-street on Saturday even-
ing last, 1 was attracted by a lot of hooting and groaning,
which I thought proceeded from a number of lamkins,
but on coming closer I was astonished to find that it was
“our assistants” or would-be gentlemen. Very gentle-
■manly conduct I must say, in hooting at a shopkeeper
for obliging his customers ! What do the assistants really
' Uiink we women are made of ? Are we to allow ourselves
to be trodden upon, and dictated to by a seti of brainless
numskulls? Are we to leave our household duties and
our children’s wants, to traverse through the hot, dusty
streets, all hurry-scurry, forgetting one-half of what we
require in order to allow these assistants to gam their
own selfish ends? No ! never 1 Wives and daughters,
rise and oppose them. Let them see that without us the
storekeepers would not need their services, and also teach
them the well-taught lesson “that they are our servants
and not we theirs.” Let us have leisure time in cool of
the evening to make our purchases. I and my numerous
friends intend to do this, and to patronise on I y th os e who
open to suit our convenience. —Yours, etc., HOUbEWirh.
L'here now ! Early closing is incompatible with
Woman’s Rights. The draper’s assistant, you
tee, is never a married man, or if he is, his wife’s
ms’band is only a draper’s assistant.
# * •
Hoo Ki the other night heard Quoug Tart,
die kilted Sydney Presbyterian Celestial, sing
“Scots wha hae.” “Me no savee this Wah
Hay ” said Hoo Ki—“ him Chinaman ? ”
# * *
The N.Y. World lately offered a large
prize for the best original ideas for use in any
department of the World. One of the best re-
ceived up to date was this: “Please print the
drapery advertisements and the base-ball news on
different leaves of your paper, so as to prevent
men from fighting with their wives at breakfast.”
# # *
Brodzky, of Melbourne, is The Bulletin’s
authority for the statement that Gov. Hopetoun
“can keep his place without a trace of hauteur.’
How some people do like to be kicked !
* * *
Source alike of bliss untold and of woe
unfathomable is the marriage-certificate. But it
has been reserved for the Picturesque Atlas Pub-
lishing Co., of Sydney, to utilise the fateful docu-
ment in connection with the thriving and aggres-
sive part-bo ,k industry. A defaulting subscriber to
the Atlas denies the authenticity of the signature
on his order—and is promptly and unexpectedly
countered by its fac-simile on the bond which
welded two souls into one in a neat suburban
cottage with an asphalted back-yard, at about the
same period in his history. Love and literature
hand in hand. Matrimony and a geographical
provision for its results linked together by the
SEEING DOUBLE.
WALL NEWSBOY: “SIXTH ‘STAR,’ SIR?”
BOOZY SWELL: “NO-HIC-SHPLIT IT-TWO THREE-SHTAR.”
wiles of the artful book-agent. The memory of the
bond is seared into the brain; the order for the
book is forgotten. Hence these tears, and a com-
mittal for perjury. We now have in the press a
three-volume novel: The Marriage Bond, or the
Book Fiend’s Vengeance.
• * *
The American papers are administering
Sheol in allopathic doses to the heiresses who
barter away fortunes in return for the damaged
names and mouldy titles of seedy, needy German
princelings and decayed British and Austrian
dukes. The marriage of Miss Huntington to the
princely sharper Hatzfeldt is a notorious arrange-
ment in which the rascally blas6 old male
bargainer sold his descent from a robber-chiet ot
the Rhine to the highest bidder.
# * *
Professor Threlfall, of Sydney University,
has found a wife in Miss Baird, the pretty sister
of Mrs. Bernard Wise. The marriage takes place
at Hobart early in January, And Lord Rosehill,
one of Hopetoun’s household, is going to marry
Miss Jones, who voyaged with him from Europe.
Papa Jones, it is unnecessary to state, lives at
Toorak, and is worth a lot over eight pounds six
and eightpence a month.
Gentlemen of the Victorian Civil Service
are protesting, through their vigilant secretary,
that payment for “ overtime work should always
commence from 4.30 p.m., shai;p, at which tun
“ the ordinary duties of the office close. Hand
the weary scribbler a harp :
A man has been heavily fined for sacrile-
giously daring to drive a waggonette without
permission up Hopetoun’s avenue for the time
being. We are only surprised that he wasn t
hanged without a trial.
* * *
A number of very loyal people, who
stood waiting outside Melbourne Town Hall, the
other evening, to get a fleeting glimpse of His
Excellency, were ultimately left lamenting. At
the blissful moment of Hopetoun’s arrival sundry
expert pickpockets came along and lifted the
valuables of everyone engaged in crying hooray.
The citizens who kept their hands in their
pockets, and snorted at the tomfoolery, came off
all right. Which shows that Providence some-
times arranges things for the best.
* * *
Rev. St. J. P. Pugh, curate in charge of
Gamely, Indoroopilly (Q.), addresses to his ‘‘ dear
friends ” what hecalls his “ 7th monthly circular,
in which he gives this sage advice : “ One word of
warning : be happy, be jolly, at Christmas, but do
not make beasts of yourselves.”
* * *
“ Death is always deeply suggestive,” said
Melbourne Evening Standard in the course of a
solemn sermon about Searle. To which strangely
original thought we would add that birth is also
suggestive, while marriage is rather the same way.
Even an evening newspaper can be deeply sug-
gestive, especially in the matters of cnmma
assaults and divorce-court proceedings. As tor a
pantomime ballet its suggestiveness beats death s
all to nothing.
The neat and nicely-tailored oaf
Whose service so uncivil is,
When ordered to prolong a loaf
As surly as the divil is ;
He curls his whiskers and enjoys
An easy “bed of clover ” time,
And all his working day employs
In talking of the “ overtime.”
From ten o’clock till half-past four
He lounges with his jesty mates,
And, if detained a minute more,
Would charge it to the Estimate!;
This question put we to the dude
At what, in name of thunder ! tune
Would he his office work conclude
Before he charged for “ undertime?
BIT OF SCANDAL.
Our ladies’ man heard the following conversa-
tion between two young and good-looking ladies in
a suburban train yesterday I irat Lady: 1 hat s
a sad affair about Mrs. eloping with her hus-
band’s coachman. What could have been the
reason?” Second Lady : “ Don’t you know? It s
the talk of the town. Her hubby refused to
furnish her with a bottle of the famous St. Louis
Lager Beer, and the coachman offered to supply
her wants. A reason weighty, strong and
effectual.”
WAR.
For some years past the condition of matters m
JS&Tto many of the nations|o eontm^W
jss w
pending conlSot which a > ingle W«J step
of money in the
StSt to intimidate each the other tom entorng
noon a warfare which would be of a most ton e
nature^'illustrating the trnth of the a^om^that
peace is best maintained by bei g I I
war. But to come nearer home. We, m tms
southern hemisphere, have again armed the
particular season favourable to the dissemimation
of typhoid and other poisonous germs, which m
an insidious way seek to fasten themse ~
careless and unsuspecting. These cowardly
assailants are so far wise in their generation a
select for the field of their operations not only
weakly and debilitated constitutions unfitted to
resist their incursions, but frequently attack tne
apparently lusty and strong, although not perfectly
sound. While it is satisfactory to know that by
increased attention to the improvement of sanitary
surroundings, the proportion of disease is to
some extent, prevented, it is equahy neces Y
that the individual system should te fortifie
against the possibility of adodgment being effected
in the human fortress, which may be said to be
undergoing a state of siege. The utmost watch-
fulness is necessary in guarding the approaches.
Should there be a feeling of weariness and dis-
inclination for exertion, accompanied by but littie
or no actual pain, it should be accepted asi an
intimation that a condition exists favourable to
the entertainment of the dangerous foe Now is
the time to place the fortress in a state of defence.
On the hypothesis that prevention is better than
cure it is just the time for raising the general
M» of the system. To this end nothing has
been invented equal to Warner s Safe Cure, ilm
remedy, together with Warner s Safe Pills, taken
according to directions, _ will have the effect of
putting the vital organs in a sound condition for
performing the important purifying processes thej
Predesigned to accomplish. This done, the life-
blood will become a vigorous health-giving stream,
coursing merrily through the arteries and veins
and giving the subject a guarantee against the
inroads of those invisible pests that throng the
air, and seek by stratagem to enter the lines and
foster rebellion among the garrison forces.
It is an established fact that, although P re
specifically to renovate the kidneys and liver,
Warner’s 'Safe Cure often serves as an antidote to
many other ailments which, although apparenth
independent, are the direct result of the derange-
ment of the organs mentioned, and with the
removal of the cause these effects disappear. That
these medicines act as represented read the
following St. James’, Benalla, Victoria, <th
October, 1889. For many years I suffered much
inconvenience from causes I could not ascertain,
while repeated applications to the medical pro-
fession failed to give relief. The symptoms were
not so much of a painful kind, as causing at times
great weakness and depression, so as often to m
unable to follow my occupation—that of a farmer.
Some time ago, from reading m the newspapers of
the good effects of Warner s Safe Cure, I took a
few bottles, which made an evident impression
for the better. Ultimately, after experiencing
great pain, I felt that something had been brought
away which gave a most pleasurable sensation of
relied, and finally, the full cause was revealed b>
the passage of two calculi of considerable size, it
is impossible to describe the contrast between my
former and present state. I can now do any kind
of work with pleasure, and I think it my duty to
let you know the great deliverance the medicine
has worked, and the grand result of taking your
Safe Cure.” (Signed) John Egan.
“ Charters Towers, Queensland, May 21st, IbbJ.
I write to tell you of the great benefit I have
received from the use of Warner s Safe Cure. _ T or
so long as 23 years, I had suffered intense misery
from stone in the bladder, for the remo
which I underwent repeated painful operations
without obtaining relief, finally, and as a last
resource, I was induced in March last to try the
Safe Cure. After taking fifteen bottles, and by
that agency alone, two calculi of enormous
dimensions were expelled ; but I continued the
medicine until I became assured of complete re-
covery. Thankful for this, I make known the
facts so that you may employ my experience tor
the benefit of others who may be affected in like
manner. I take every opportunity of publishing
the wonderful success of your remedy, for 1 con-
sider the circumstances cannot be too widely circu-
lated.’ (Signed) Mrs. M. A. Watson, Millohester
Road, Charters Towers, Queenton, Queensland.
It is thus that Warner’s Safe Remedies make
successful war against the inroads of the diseases
which commonly afflict humanity.


■OREIGN & COLONIAL EXCHANGE BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney—B6 King Street.
Melbourne— B69 Collins Street.
London Bankers—Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.O.
Authorised Capital, £500,000.
T. S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Director.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage of all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years 8£ per cent.
12 months 8 per cent.
6 months ... 7 percent.
3months 6 percent.
Communications to be addressed to “The
Managing Director. ’*
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Mayor’s Ball.—Messrs. Charlemont & Go., of
the Royal Arcade, respectfully beg to intimate to
all the ladies who attended the Mayor’s Ball, held
in the Centennial Hall, on the evening of the 27th
ultimo, that they are now photographing the ladies
who attended the ball for the purpose of making
up an album as a memento of the occasion.
Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Amusements.
rjl HEA T R E ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
BOXING NIGHT, DEC. 26, AND EVERY EVENING,
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove’s
GRAND CHRISTMAS ANNUAL,
AL ADDICT. ALADDIN.
Admission—ss., 3s. and Is.
J£ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
To-Night and Every Evening,
Shakespeare’s Fairy Comedy,
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
£JRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.45.
LAST NIGHT OF
F. C. Burnand’s Inimitable Comedy,
Betsy. Betsy. Betsy.
BOXING NIGHT, THURSDAY, 26th DECEMBER,
will be produced
FRIENDS. FRIENDS.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
ggCHOOL OF ARTS.
Lessee—Mr. Harry Rickards. Treas.—Mr. J. Leete.
Commencing Boxing Night!
Mr. Harry Rickards’
NEW ENGLISH Si IRISH COMEDY COMPANY!
First Appearance of THE MURPHYS.
Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Wm. A. Jinkins, Business Manager.
JJONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Pare, 4d
Q Y C L RAMA!
The greatest battle in the world’s most mo-
mentous civil war is fought to its dread close daily
at the Cyclorama.
Where is it ? Opposite Red fern Terminus.
Open 10 to 10. Sunday Next (Half-price), 3to 10.
Have you seen it ?
A CARD.
MISS BESSIE ROYAL (Mrs. A. LONG),
Mezzo-Soprano, late of Lyster’s Opera
Company, Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove
Opera Co., Emilie Melville Opera Co., Montague-
Turner Opera Co., and for years Principal
Soprano Vocalist in the City of Adelaide,
Open for Concert Engagements.
Apply PALING’S and NICHOLSON’S
£900! £900! £9OO l
In Prizes in Australian Natives’ Association
NATIONAL FETE and ART UNION,
JANUARY 27, 1890.
Ist Prize—Four-roomed Villa, valued £4OO.
2nd Prize—Block of Land, valued £lOO.
3rd Prize—An Oil Painting (“News from a Distant Land”),
valued £7O ; and a number of other Prizes
Tickets, Is. each, or 22 for £l. To be had from Local
Agents, or
THOS. PENKF.RTIIV, See.
119 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Use Batho’h Baking Powder.
Shipping.
-piRBOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A, MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamers.
Commander.
|Leave Sydney] Leave Mel-
at 11 a.m, jbourne4p.m
OCEANIEN..iPoydenot .. Dec. 24 ..iDeo. 28
i i 1
SYDNEY .. Pellegrin . .]Jan. 25, 1890., Jan. 28,1890
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates; —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable);—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
U ZEALAND. Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under: —
Steamer.
I I
Tons. 1 Commander.
[
Leave Arrive
Sydney S. Francisco,
Mariposa
Zealandia
3000 |h. M. Hayward I
I
3000 |Van Oterendorp
Dec. 24 Jan
at 8 p.m. I
Jan. 22 Feb.
18
15
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Canard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and guide books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
| ion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
Furniture, &c.
BWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW KOOMS AND MANUFACTORY;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
• A
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
e T r^ ele \ rated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 teet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.—The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand,
Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15a.
NEWTON & LANE,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
w
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPER OR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS.
6 x 8, 8 x 8, 9xB, 10 x 8, 12 xB, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; 8 x 8,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10 x 8,10 s. 6d.; 12 x 8,12 s. 6d.;
12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
■DOCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
XV» restful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
ť
MERICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
t
QANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Vert Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O'Connell Streets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
£ ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs,
VJ Indian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB.
"O ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
111 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
, Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS,
AND
POLITICAL POINTS.
Out of 137 members in the N.S. Wales
Assembly 57 are Freemasons. How many of
them are Good Templars ?
John Bright said: “There is no liberty
where buying and selling are restricted. ” True,
and as the want of money restricts buying and
selling, where poverty is, liberty cannot be.
Goschen says that 1 ‘ to grant Home Rule to
Ireland would be to confess our own failure to
govern that country.” The P.M. Gazette retorts
that the failure is patent to all the world. Why
not confess it ?
The Marquis of Bute professes to favour
Home Rule for Scotland, where he owns 93,000
acres of God’s earth. Whether the Scotch Home
Rulers favour marquises and hereditary possession
of their soil is not quite certain.
“ Canterbury” Hutchison, M.P., it is said,
in view of certain law proceedings, handed his
resignation to Premier Parkes, who generously
said: “Don’t resign! You ha*e stuck to us;
now you are in trouble, we’ll stick to you.”
It is said that a relation of a N.S.W.
Minister lately earning £l3 yearly in a lawyer’s
office has gaily hopped over the heads of some
hundreds of bald-headed waiters for promotion
and is now O.P.S. in a back-block town with a
salary of over £3OO or £4OO a year and perks.
George Jacob Holyoake, once the leader
of British democracy and the president of the
Secular Society, in a letter to Premier Parkes says
that “Federation is only possible between equals.”
The Bulletin has all along pointed out that Im-
perial Federation means being churned up in the
gastric juices of the lion.
The you’re-a-liar debating society that
meets at Parliament Houses, Sydney, adjourns
till April after passing the Estimates—which pro-
vide for increases to most of the Civil Service.
By greasing the service and awaiting the arrival
of Henry George, Calico Jemmy and Co.’s
“Government of Economy” reckon on engineer-
ing another lease of office.
Trenwith, head of the Victorian Trades-
hall, who is now an M.P., figures extensively in
the vxoe-regal garden-party business. Trenwith
once did some honest “snobbing,” and we ask
him, in the name of Heaven, not to let them
make him into a Deakin. He is almost the last
hope of the Democrats in the Victorian Assembly,
and yet he lets us see him melting away like wax.
Gladstone seems inclined to let Home
Rule wait a little, while pauperism, the labour
question, and other social problems meet with
consideration. For this the Irish party are to
blame. They always count on receiving the
assistance of the Radicals, but when the Radicals
want their’s (as in the Bradlaugh imbroglio) the
Home Rule vote goes with the Conservatives.
The semi-Conservative Figaro “sincerely
hopes that Mr. Bradlaugh will soon be entirely
restored to health. He is one of the very few
men who have won the fight in the face of tre-
mendous odds. Not only has he scaled the
ladder, but he has made this operation a com-
paratively easy one for those who come after. Mr.
Bradlaugh can ill be spared in this corrupt and
dishonest age.” Times change !
The much-advertised Pastor Jefferis has
declared in favour of Imperial Federation. “He
inclined to the binding of the dominion of the
future to the mother land by the ties of filial
subordination .” The Governor-General of Feder-
ated Australia, it has been arranged by the Con-
gregational Church, Pitt-street, Sydney, is to be
appointed by Queen Victoria, and the State-
Governors are to be appointed by the Governor-
General.
“It is a fact that there is actually no
poverty in Austria, and that the natives feed at
least once a day upon meat. How could it be
otherwise with the prices of comestibles ? Good
fowls cost from 4d. to 9d.; turkeys, about Is. each;
and sucking-pigs often change hands, we are told,
at from fid. to Is. each, .... The peasantry
are very well dressed, and their rotund faces show
an awful contrast to their brethren in our own
happy (?) land. ” — K. F, Bellairs,
Tide-waiter Simpson, a N.S.W. Govern-
ment official who refused to honour the Premier’s
pass to admit a Chinaman into N.S. Wales, has
resigned his position, merely remarking that
“owing to On Lee’s case having been made a
Kilitical question it would not be expedient for
m to remain in the service.” Mr. Simpson’s
reasoning is Scotohly logical. But what a satire
the thing is on the management of the Civil
Service I
From a speech delivered, just a quarter of
a century ago, by John Bright in the House of
Commons, on Mr. Ewart’s motion for the Aboli-
tion of the Punishment of Death :
I think if there is one thing more certain than another
it is this—that every amelioration of the criminal code of
this country has been carried against the opinion of the
majority of the judges. And I may on this point quote
the opinion of an eminent Irish judge with whom I had
some conversation in Ireland about 15 years ago. The
conversation turned on this very question. He said:
" Beware of the judges. If Parliament had acted in the
opinion of the judges we should have been hanging now
lor forgery, for horse-stealing, and for I know n- t
how many other offences for which capital punishment
baa been long since abolished.”
Mr, Crick’s resolution charging the
N.S. W. Speaker with incompetence and partiality,
was hilariously negatived on the voices of a
virtuous House, one side of which is afraid of
Crick’s scorching tongue, while the other thinks
it politic to discountenance the savage straightfor-
wardness of the wicked, clever young irrecon-
cilable from West Macquarie. Crick is quite
right so far as the incompetence of the Speaker is
concerned. Speaker Young is honest and means
well, and you safely could entrust your last
sovereign to his keeping ; but his dullness and in-
experience have been constantly travelled on by
the adroit old deceiver who put him into the
Chair; hence the unconscious partiality of many
of the Speaker’s rulings.
Added to the stringy-bark sirloin and the
dyspeptic pudding with which our convict ances-
tors were wont to exhilarate themselves at Christ-
mas tide, we, their descendants, have got the in-
toxicating and murder-provoking daub of the
juvenile female artist under the heading of
Christmas Cards —outrages inciting to a breach
of all the commandments fired off promiscuously
and slaughtering friends and enemies with equal
partiality. The Bulletin’s five millions of friends
have bombarded it from all quarters —and the
only Australian Federal Journal reciprocates
profoundly if somewhat sorrowfully. Some of
the shots would exasperate the saints, but in the
photographic ones there is some bliss, barring the
mottoes. Henry King, of George-street, Sydney,
takes The Bulletin cake this year.


■EXHIBITION
BUILDING*
XMAS AMUSEMENT EXTRAORDINARY.
Messrs. M’Mahon announce with great satisfac-
tion the return for a brief Xmas and i arewell
Season of the world-famed
SILBON-STIRKS. SILBON-STIRKS.
Whose startling performances in this same Exhibition
Building on a former occasion excited such a remarkable
decree of interest and attracted tens of thousands of
people The whole of the Original Company will take part
in these Farewell Exhibitions, which will commence on
BOXING NIGHT, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 26.
Prices: 35., 25., and Is.
OUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of —
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
CIGARS Jk TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Priceg on Application to—
A. M. Miarks & Co.,
Vickery's Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
Should write or call upon
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d.
CIGAR
Of all
Tobacconists,
t
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS * Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
t
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00.,
(Opposite Q.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
p I
K I
R
I
C
T
X
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
IF YOU WISU
To be worried into an early grave by the petty
inconveniences of this paradoxical sub-lunary if
you wish to lose your trams, your trains and your
temper—if you wish to arrive at your business
premises in the morning disposed to quarrel with
everyone you come in contact with and to arrive
home of an evening in a fit mood to abuse your
wife, baste the baby, kick the cat, or, indeed, for
the matter of that, to “kick the bucket,” in a
sudden fit of splenic apoplexy, why buy one of
those cheap, trashy, made-up-to-gull Swia. atro-
cities in the shape of a so-called watch. But if
you wish
A RELIABLE TIMEKEEPER, '
A. true and trusty friend and faithful companion
—if you wish a timekeeper which myriads ot
grateful purchasers have satisfied themselves is
fully up to the standard of excellence claimed for
it, the testimony in favour of which is over-
whelming, the reputation of which is unrivalled,
the durability of which is assured, the construc-
tion of which “is simple and such that rt rarely
gets out of order, and, in event of accident, can
be repaired at a trifling cost—if you wish a low-
cost and reliable TIMEKEEPER which has
proved itself worthy of the high encomiums
passed upon it in every clime, by pulpit, press and
populace, you will assuredly
BUY A WATERBURY.
All parts of its beautiful mechanism are made
bv the most marvellously accurate automatic
machinery and duplicates of these parts are, for
the purpose of economic repairs, kept constantly
in stock at the company’s various repair depdts
established throughout the chief centres of the
colonies. Series E., the old favourite, 18a. 6d ;
Series J. (Gents’.) or L. (Ladies’), the new Water-
bury, stem-setting, short-winding and enamelled
dials, 22s. 6d.; or with patent dials, 20s. each.
Sold by all storekeepers and dealers.
THB BEST HEW YEAR’S GIFT.
T;
'_3
'Eh
rvwLW
o
£
i
»
?
raa
.ffjSOAP
10
Is made with the utmost care from materials
which are
Selected with the greatest regard for Purity,
and for the
SOOTHING and BENEFICIAL EFFECT
which they impart to the Skin and Complexion.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers in
Toilet Requisites.
ALL IN SEARCH OF HEALTH
SHOCM) WBAB
Dr. SCOTT'S ELECTRIC CORSETS OR BELTS
Send for Illustrated Circular and Pries List
posted free on application to the
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION
56 Margaret Street, Stdnet.
P.O. Bomttl.
The Referee
PRINCIPAL RACING FIXTURES FOR CHRISTMAS.
A. J.C. (Sydney) Meeting .. .. Boxing Day.
V.A.T.O. (Mclb.) „ „
Warrnambool „ .. .. ~ ~ ~
Sydney Tattersall’s „ .. .. December 28th.
Williamstown (Melb.) Meeting .. .. „ „
Adelaide R.C. ~ .. ... ~ 30th.
Y.R.C. (Melb.) „ .. .. New Year’s Day.
The only thing certain about the sculling
championship is that it belongs to Australia, and
that it is a fish only caught in the Parramatta
River. The foreign athletes who wish to chase it
must come to Sydney, as the English and Ameri-
can varieties are spurious.
## & #
There Avere as many people in Collins-
street, Melbourne, to see Searle’s funeral as to
witness Hopetoun’s entry. Hence the people
thought as much of a dead sculler as a live earl.
* # #
Renforth, last of a long series of English
champion scullers, did not (as was stated by The
Bulletin and twenty other papers) die “while
successfully contesting a four-oar race in American
waters.” The race had not started when Ren-
forth dropped his oar and fell back into the arms
of Harry Kelley, nor was it at all certain that the
Britishers would have won the race but for that
memorable tragedy. A few days later, when an
emergency man took Renforth’s place, the English
four were badly beaten by the Wards, a quartette
of Yankee brothers, the eldest of whom was
grey-headed. “ Mother country ” supremacy in
aquatics died with Renforth. No young oarsmen
came to take his place, and so it happened that
“old” Joe Sadler —in his prime the inferior of
Kelly, who was never so good a man as Renforth —
came to be champion of England when Ned
Trickett sailed across the seas to give him fits.
And, knowing that Sadler, at the time of his
meeting Trickett, was not a ghost of his old self,
and that his old self at tip-top form had only been
third best sculler in England—knowing this every
“ home ” critic worth twopence put his twopence
on Hanlan Avhen Trickett rowed the Canuck on
the Thames.
* * *
Hanlan Avants to row anyone in the world
on the Thames for the championship. The
elaborately-tailored Kanuck Avith the shiny tile
and much-barbered hair can make all he wants by
rowing second. Beach now challenges him. Beach
is now a ham-fat man. Should he exert himself
too violently he may meet with the fate of Ren-
forth.
# # «
A well-known Australian bookmaker made
a two-thousand-pQund book on the Cambridge-
shire, and won-a shilling. That’s a “Bob.”
Couldn’t have been “Joe.”
# # *
The proprietors of a Melbourne sporting
paper intend to give “twenty pounds to be divided
amongst those of our readers who successfully tip
the whole Six Winners ” at the Y.R.C. New Year’s
Day meeting !
# # #
Some idea of the manner in which
American trotting-horses are fixed up Avith toe-
weights may be gained from the fact that in a re-
cent match Pericles, a three-year-old, carried 32
ounces in shoe and toe-weight combined.
* # •
Thus the Hawk :—“ Peter Jackson, the
Australian, is bound to make friends in England,
by his honest civility and sobriety. He has been
insulted by men who find it easier to insult him
and avoid him than to fight him and whip him.
He has distinguished himself in his sparring
career in the only genuine way—that is, by win-
ning contests, and meeting all comers.”
* * *
Sullivan and Jackson, it is cabled, meet in
May, and in this connection we quote the follow-
ing from the ’Frisco Newsletter
John L. Sullivan, it is said, has oast aside the colour-
line barrier, behind which he has sheltered himself for
some months. In doing this, it is a question whether
John L. shows good sense or not. After all, it is perhaps
better for him to take the chances of being whipped by
Jackson than to be hooted into disgrace by refusing to
fight one of the cleverest and most humane pugilists the
world has ever known.
# * *
Victoria is bringing out a sculler at last.
Several critics who saw the recent Amateur-
Championship Race (Manual Labour) on the
Lower Yarra, prophesy great things for Kerr, the
winner. The pace was fast, and Kerr won with-
out the slightest effort.
* * *
The death of Searle has drawn public
attention to the Williamstown Sanatorium. The
Melbourne Herald asserts that it is tvvo miles
from anywhere and in the vicinity of a miasmatic
swamp, a nightsoil - depot, and an abattoirs.
Further, that the fever cottages are miserably
small and have insufficient window-light; that no
precautions have been taken against ground-damp,
that there is no shelter from the south-east wind,
that there are no cooking conveniences, and out-
side there is a most miserable and cheerless pros-
pect. Altogether the writer seems surprised that
Searle lived so long under the conditions. Hood
old Smellbourne !
# * *
Martin Power, the Queensland middle-
weight, is boxing at Johannesburg.
# # *
A London writer doesn’t think much of
Slavin’s boxing, and classifies the champions on
hand thus—Jackson, Mitchell, Smith, and Slavin.
# # *
The Teemer-Hanlan race for £lOO aside
fell through because at the lafct moment Kaplan
proposed to row for the gate only, and to divide
that equally. This Teemer declined, saying:
“ The day has gone by when you can dictate
terms to scullers, and as I led the parade the last
few times we met, Ned, I am thinking hereafter
you will have to put up some money and row on
your merits.” Hanlan, like members of the
nobility, is travelling on the past.
# * *
The two leading Melbourne clubs are com-
ing out handsomely in the matter _of holiday
stakes. £2550 is added to six races in all by the
Y.R.C., and the opposition show at Caulfield
gives £1550 to five events. Half of this latter
total goes towards an inevitable “Hopetoun” Cup,
which may be expected to tighten those “silken
bonds” like the Sydney Tatt’s “Carrington’
Stakes.
* * *
On paper the Sydney Summer Cup is a
pretty good thing for Melos, and Merriment has
a show to annex the Standish Handicap at
Flemington.
# * *
A Californian daily bursts into heroics
over Peter Jackson, protests that he is no longer
an Australian, but a Californian, and tenders him
letters of naturalisation without more ado or
further delay. Listen to this grandiloquent lan-
guage ;—“The great heart of the Golden State
has reached out and enfolded Peter Jackson,
irrespective of nativity, as well as of race, colour,
or previous condition of servitude; there can be no
doubt about that, for we have all admitted it.
Who would have thought that our hero had come
here for the first time in his life only a year ago ?
It does not take long to naturalise a man among
us when he deserves it. As it is, he is a Califor-
nian through and through, and we should like to
see the Inspector of Election, from Telegraph Hill
to Tehama-street, who would refuse his vote.” It
will be interesting to note the attitude of that
paper should Sullivan whip him.
* * *
Additional gloom was cast around the
obsequies of Searle by this rhyme, with which the
“own correspondent” of a Melbourne,sporting
publication sought to lend dignity to his dreary
screed: —
To think that a plucky boat-puller should be cut
down in his “age’s bloom,” while an incoherent
driveller is left to drag journalism into contempt!
Such is the irony of fate,
# * *
The conditions for next Melbourne Cup
race show the same absurd evidence of slovenly
drafting which has been exposed in The Bulletin
for several years past. Once again a sapient com-
mittee decides that “ the winner of the A. J.C.
or Y.R.C. Derby (of current year) shall carry not
less than 7st. Bibs.” And once again, The Bul-
letin explains how, in the event of a colt and
filly running a dead heat, and dividing stakes for
either Derby, the filly would have to_ meet the
colt at a five pounds disadvantage in the big
handicap. The Y.R.C. rulers ignore an allow-
ance for sex altogether, and the Woman’s Rights
Association ought to give them a good hard knock
with its umbrella.
* * *
Ringmaster, the little Australian horse
who has done so well in England, had a very bad
time on the trip “ home.” Feed ran short and
the horse grew quite fond of apples and oranges,
which the passengers petted him with. Then the
box was smashed in, and, the slings giving way,
the poor fellow was smashed about like a shuttle-
cock. For three weeks he stood until he fell down
in a heap, exhausted, and, to finish matters, the
flooring of his box caved in and he hurt and en-
larged his off-fetlock. As soon as landed he com-
menced to make flesh, but his first sight of snow
bothered him, and he didn’t know what to make
of it, lifting his feet like a cat on hot bricks. He
became very fresh and must needs throw himself
down on a piece of glass and cut his knee to the
bone, and when just getting nicely patched up
down he came again and opened the old wound ;
and it was a long time before they got him to
work. However, he was in trim at last, and
after affording any amount of fun to the would-be
smart English racing-men and writers he turned
the laugh to the other side of their faces by win-
ning the Billesden Handicap, the Pontefract
Spring Handicap, the Great Northern Handicap,
and running second to King Monmouth in the
Great Ebor Handicap. If Mr. White’s horse,
Plutarch, gets into anything like “nick” he
should cause the Britishers any amount of left-
handed amusement of the same kind.
Once upon a time a duke, a man who
would be a duke shortly, a Hebrew financier, an
officer in the Guards, and a lot of telegraph-boys,
formed a Society in the West End of London.
The detectives, thinking it was a gambling-saloon,
set a watch on it and raided it. Then they found
that it was not a gambling-saloon but a Society
for Mutual Admiration. Also, to their dismay,
they found there a young man —a Most Exalted
Personage. It is, of course, clear that the exalted
personage did not go there for any unpleasant
purposes. But he got there just the same.
* * *
The Most Exalted Personage is broadly
stated in the continental papers to be of Royal
descent. We have heard of the man who
“wouldn’t call the Queen his uncle,” but plenty
of men after this would be very loth to call the
Queen’s grandchildren his cousins.
* # *
Let us offer up our customary prayers for
the Queen—for Albert Edward Prince of Wales,
the Princess of Wales, and all the Royal Family,
for, by heavens, they need it.
A certain Sydney daily newspaper manager
has caused his literary employes to be informed
that such of them as are found to be in any way
connected with the local Institute of Journalists
will be summarily dismissed,
It is stated that sculler Searle left £BOOO.
A high N.S.W. official has been suspended
for being on bowing terms with James Hennessey.
A New Zealand paper points out that
distrust, and perhaps dislike of, Parkes delays the
Federation movement.
Ex-Justice Sir Robert Molesworth, of
Victoria, who is now about 86, goes into Mel-
bourne from Hawthorn only once a month—to
have his corns cut.
After the dinner given to the Czar, in
Berlin, the Kaiser asked for a penknife to cut a
cigar. An officer of the Grenadier Guards
offered his Majesty one, who used it, and re-
turned it to its owner, saying, “Now you have an
historic souvenir.” Poor ape !
Auher, who was chapel-master at the
Tuilieries under the Second Empire, was a con-
firmed bachelor. One evening, as the Empress
Eugenie was chatting with him, asked it ne
had never regretted remaining unmarried. JN ever,
madame,” replied the witty old man, and less
than ever now, when I think that Mine. Auber
would be nearly eighty years old.”
Once we heard that Mount Morgan was
“ a hill of gold; ” now the managers of the mine
are beginning to talk about “lodes.” This will
comfort the hearts of shareholders who bought
from dear friends at from £l5 to £l7 a share. One
man—a politician—it is said, bought in early at £3
—and made £BO,OOO. Then he bought in again at
£l5 or so and lost more than £BO,OOO.
A Durham Ox farmer, Avho has just legally
defeated a Bendigo publican who lambed him
down, in order to show how little encouragement
he had received to keep sober, stated that some
time ago a publican at Sydney Elat, when he
could not charge him for drink, billed him for a
hundredweight of onions which the publican said
the farmer had eaten in four days. Drunk or
sober what a sweet person that farmer must be.
Rev. Dr. Bevan discoursed smugly at his
Congregational Mission Hall, Melbourne, the
other night on Labour’s Pair Share, under the
auspices of the Capital and Labour 1 ederation
League, which is going to settle up everything,
under the patronage of the Employers Union.
Unfortunately'the Federation is all on one side.
The working man is not in it. He smells the
inevitable rat. Dr. Bevan, with his £3O a week,
is obviously a fit exponent of Labour’s i air Share.
The Symese twins of the Melbourne Age
lately offered a prize of £l5 for the best Christmas
story for their weekly, the Leader. Last week
it was announced that the prize yarn was * Jack
Travis’s Merry Christmas.” The first N.D. par.
in the Age was devoted to the all-absorbing sub-
ject, and therein the following passage occurred :
“ The sealed envelope discloses that the author is
Mr. Henry Britton, St. Kilda.” Now, every
Melbourne pressman knows full well that
the clever and taciturn Harry Britton has
been working on the Age for years past
and left the reporting staff only the_ other day
to edit the Exhibition Record. The judge of the
competitive stories was, according to the twins
own printed conditions, Harry Short, editor of the
Leader, the other Harry’s old chum on the Argus
in years gone by. Now, the question arises : Was
long Harry so chivalrous as to send in his story to
Harry Short in a strange hand-writing, or, after
all those years, did Short fail to recognise his old
colleague’s hand till he burst open “the sealed
envelope ” and found that the gifted author
of “Jack Travis’s Merry Christmas ” was no other
than “Mr. Henry Britton, St. Kilda?” And
why not “Mr. Henry Britton, the Rack, Re-
porter’s-room, Age Office ”; or “ Mr. Henry
Britton, a valued contributor to this journal ;
or “Mr. Henry Britton, whose sparkling effusions
have often graced these pages ?” No one grudges
Harry his fifteen so vs., or doubts the bona-Jides
of Editor Short’s decision ; this is written merely
for the sake of pointing out that Editor Short
aforesaid was not on this one occasion acute enough
to do himself justice.
So the corpse of their ill-fated
io the sad city on the Clarence send;
Who, not inglorious in his age’s bloom,
Was hurried hence by too severe a doom.
The hailstones big as duckeggs crashed,
; Twould just amaze yer ;
A hundred-thousand windows smashed —
What price a glazier ?
AN EDITOR’S EXPERIENCE IN
LONDON.
(BIRMINGHAM CHRONICLE.)
While in London, staying at a prominent hotel,
we met with a gentleman who had been treated
for several years by the most eminent physicians
at home and abroad, and had been pronounced by
them incurable ; but who, by a chance conversa-
tion, was induced to apply St. Jacobs 01. 1S
sufferings had been intense, and he had for a on |?
time been unable to wear boots. He was confine
to his bed for months at a time, and his limbs were
strapped to a board to prevent his becoming p< i
manently crippled. The result of the application
of St. Jacobs oil was a complete cure within a few
days, and his case appeared so remarkable that we
personally investigated it ; and, to confirm t n
above statement, that gentleman himself testified
to the fact. The reason we take such an interest
is that we noticed in the London Sunday Times
an article with reference to this remedy ; anc wc
investigated the case of a former employe of-
Messrs. Davey and Moore, bottle and stoneware
manufacturers. This man, after trying vauous
physicians and many medicines (some of which
were supplied from St. Mary’s Hospital) with-
out effect, and being pronounced by the chief
medical authorities incurable, and having
suffered over six years, was admitted to the.
Burton Hospital, where, after ten weeks medi-
cal treatment, which included the _ use of
mineral waters and baths, he obtain© no
relief whatever. After trying all the remedial
measures advised by friends he could only move
about on crutches, and experienced intense pain-.
His joints had become badly swollen, the sensa-
tion being as though some sharp instrument was
passing through him. The physicians who attended
him stated that he would be an invalid as long as
he lived. A casual acquaintance in the infirmary
informed him of St. Jacobsoil, which heapplied, and
to his astonishment he found it to effect a thorough
cure. This case has also been personally verified
by the writer of this article, who has not the least
interest in the promotion of St. Jacobs oil. It is
solely for the benefit of the public that we write
the foregoing, and it is with confidence and sin-
cere pleasure that we recommend this astonishing
curative agent.


Business Announcements.
BOOK of HATUEB and Illustrated
Matrimonial Quids.—
ture and uses of the organs of life and generation in man
and woman, intended especially for the married, or those
intending to marry, and who conscientiously and honestly
desire to inform themselves upon the intent and nature
of marriage and its duties, to which is added A COMPLETE
MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases of the generative
organs, whether resulting from infection or sexual excesses
and abuse, with much other valuable and highly important
information, illustrated with more than fifty engravings,
by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. Price 3s. 6d., post 4s.
The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion for
Married People, post Is. 2d. Mrs. Besant’s Law' of Popula-
tion, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful Song Book, extra large,
Is. 6d. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s. Aristotle, complete,
3s. 6d., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. 6d., post Is. 9d. New
complete Fortune Teller, 2s.
“The Matron's Manual ot Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs ; price 75., posted 7s. 6d.
“ Nigger Stump Speechesand Comic Pattern,” price 6d.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates; price 75.,
post 7s. 6d.
The arts of Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling any one to become an expert Boxer and
Athlete, illustrated with fifty engravings, price Is., post
free. Agent for London Reynolds, Referee, Dispatch,
Dublin Freeman, Glasgow- Mail. Advanced, and Republican
literature on sale.
Six* Robert Bear,
Radical Book Stores,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now Imported In bottles and used in treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER-
ffIMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUDEI-SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT It should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, In doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
ipoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
In water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLB, 52, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
QH33
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE. —For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. — For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
Cities’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital £200.000.
Head Office :
21 Castlereagh St., Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonics.
Wew Business:
1887 There Merc issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ „ 34,684 „
1889 up to 28th October 48,838 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death.
■TAMES P. GARYAN, \ Managing Director.
WM. ALEX. SMITH, j Secretary.
W el
ill
I -Tis
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
All communication.; to be addressed to the
Managing Director.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
—FALLON’S—
CELEBRATED
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Planfj
Intercolonial Investment Co., Lira ited, 96 B athurst
street, Sj'dney.
W hen next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Holler Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene ! In addition to their High Class "old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BBIDGE & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A- j
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, dr.
ATJCTIOITEEES.
C3-RAI3NT SAIjSSMSIV.
OR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
31 Y ork Street;.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales j
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
«p •'
m
38*
0/ Ctu
TO YOUNG MSX.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES. THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
directions contained in this little treatise will be
round of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will he required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhcea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medmine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
„ . , ~ „ Sydney, N.S.W.
I nvate address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
'» n ■ •» i
' %
f o iffff
O a
iiiik&zsz*
El;
&
;
ftt ;
illll
UECTRIC PHOTO-ENC. CO-, * BBIOCE-ST.- SYDNEY
Tlx© Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES, ?
Ths Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No, 4 Machines
on an Entirely new System.
STOCK JTJST LAITDIITg
Farlelgh, KTetthelm, & Co
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
le C , ORK x STREET, x SYDNEY
bole Agents for the above for New South- Wales and Queenshuul
ALSO
IMPORTED
( x )
Importers ot Requisites for the ROOT MANUFACTURING TitAOF i„ nil Iw , - , ,
ITtfl) LEATHERS. 4c. ; and of the. following Sm tail ms• 7wViJJ J including MACHINERY,
*«* ar ISi, ‘ffl* SSS!J<
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
ssßtu^iFiisa
Wall 3!!
a
a
DR RICHARDS
SMihlllminmTrniTml ~
c
WWW
Mil
m
•K
RdtTftrrnß
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-,
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hia
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bcwels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentodness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
| Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
lion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would bo advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by tire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
V Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writin
C ONS r LT AT [O X FHT. 1 :
YOUTHFUL SPORT : “Say, Mother, why don't you put in a few good body blow's
before he gets his second wind? ” — AMER.


BEALE «Sc CO.’S
NEW WAREHOUSE.
--
aca: •
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
4B4* & 48S Gsorgs Street*
SYDNEY.
REVOLUTIONISING
THE fiakto trade*
Messrs. Beale & Co.’s Great Enterprise.
mHFUE can be no questioning the fact that the Piano
T H xSe ol these Colonies has undergonei a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desirable
ohancre certainly no firm has contributed more tnan
Messrs. Beale and Company. During the tonedngh pnoes
continued the trade was held by a few, and hundreas oi
homes now rendered attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce could dream of becoming the ultimate
own™ f the instrument which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic life. _
When Beale and Companycommencedbusinesathey
had quietly gauged this condition of affaus in Australia
and they began operations on a plan which coidd alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such S
thevnronosed With the Australian selling branch of
thefr enterprise they resolved to combine
of Pianos in Germany—the centre of the worn s tiacie un
that instrument. But the experts seiL° wetted tor
mirnose of fully determming what was best httea tor
Colonial requirements reported that it was essential to
52,eT.PS m.keot P l|» to nit our
Ximmt is regarded by the most capable experts of
EuZe as tL Production of the Age, combining as
it does every feature of the highest class instrument w ith
the maximum of strength and durability, and it was placed
on the "t at prices much under what other firms and
manufacturers bad previously demanded. Altnou o n it
. v tilmnst endless trouble and long, patient labour to
nroducX design of the “Inimitable Hapsburg,” yet once
produced the demand grew so rapidly, and has become so
Sreat, that the enterprising originators are able to out
distance all competitors for both quality and puce. The
peculiar construction of the iron frame the excellence
nf the wires and the unique movements have, with all
other factors contributed to this splendid success. No
other instalment possesses to the same degree, such rich
fnP clear bell-like tones, so noticeable m the Haps
hnr’g “ especially in the higher grades, while strength,
solidity and imperviousness to climatic influences« have
been so well looked to that whether on the coldest, bleak-
est snots of New Zealand or our own Monaro Plains, 01 m
the b hottest of our Western and Northern areas, this
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, but improves its
tone and consequent value even after years of use. And
it must continue so. The genius and experience of the
mechanical world in this. branch
one instrument —the inimitable H£ipsDlir§
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute in which
it is held. Beale & Company have placed the
.< liapsburg ” with thousands of families in Austialia.
Homes in the far-distant back blocks, and homes in the
Ire not only enlivened but are made purer and better
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved to
a o larcrp trade bv selling these supenoi instiu-
do * a „S on terms demanded for the
low"r grades, and success has crowned their efforts.
They do bv far the largest business, and hold the
largest stocks in the colonies. They give, their best
efffrts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Time-payment which they have made peculiarly
t&eir own. The correspondence department is of itself a
undertaking ; every mail brings its burden of letteis.
From the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
the astute merchant they come. And they came too
from clergymen, from doctors and solicitors, from civil
servants and from the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every grade
and class now recognise the influence which music exeits
for goK the life of the home. And every writer re-
ceives courteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsburg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the following Advantages—
lot The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverberated
by a sounding board of special construction, are
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tm-
kettly, or metallic sounds so common m cheap
gnffl—Being double oblique the strings are of a
greater length and fuller tone than in the old
straight-strung Pianos.
By.fi The action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4tin—All the Hapsburg Pianos are irichord.
sth.— They are all seven Octaves.
k They have consolidated iron Frames ot
great strength, thus resisting the rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate, whereby tuning is
only required at long intervals. •
7th —They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cook-
roaches, silver-fish, mice, &c. They have wire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by ; vermin,
and other unique improvements devised for
similar ends. _ , , ~ TJ
.an —The Pelts are Clinched on the Hammers,
instead of being fastened only by glue as is the
case with nearly every Piano except the Haps-
UK I —They have brass or nickel-faced Wrest-
planks, instead of the old-fashioned perishable
[Otffl—Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
iith The outer cases are handsome in design,
and of durable beautiful woods; they can be
had in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or in
ebony and gold. .
l2th.-No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a Hapsburg liano
upon easy terms of payment. _ No charge will be
made for packing or for packing cases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by post or from our
WILLIAM FLEMING,
Merchant, Sydney «*-**■ 4l M® ltoo
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
HU, FUTONS, BOGDOUDS,
PONY OAKTS, &c., &c.
i
Express k Lumber Waggons.
% —
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
1
Melbourne Olllce:
No- 2 St- James’ Buildings, William Street.
Sydney Office!
22 & 24 Clarence Street
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
9
XJSB
liebii> COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
HIGHLY NUTRITJyE
MAY lit ÜBTAINtO IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
portable Houses
-—FOR—
Pishing Parties, Surveyors, Miners, Squatters,
And GENTLEMEN’S SEASIDE RESORTS.
CHildren’9 Play-Houseg for X.a,w*r.
:V.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
MERCHANT & IMPORTER,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET,
SYID nSTBY,
AND
No. 2 St. James' Buildings, William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Business Announcements.
Falls “Bridge F amily [Q^otexi,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, &e.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DURRANI Manager,
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
The AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LOAN and
OAURANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Office—
Sydney: Corner of Market & York Streets.
Melbourne Branch; 283 Collins-street East.
Brisbane Branch: Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deeds oi
Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise, Storage and Bond
Certificates, and all classes of mercantile and other approved
securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
A. MILLER, Acting-Manager.
THE WINNING NUMBERS.
I BRITISH PLATE
IASHEET CLASS,
cP
o y*
z O
33 cn
m
■o -D
cn
L
MERCH Im
PAI/j,
m
Si*'
5?
&
Ea
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORATORS.
DR WESTCOTT’S amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly . correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. bd
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOLL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Eucauvpte.
COlEMAne^ons
the tree.of life.
m&SSStMS
V IC TORY OjNTMgNT^a
The only pure Eucalypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism,
etc Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world,
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory- Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot— 2sl Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies, *-old Everj •
where. Beware of Imitations.
ows
ţ


‘AJMVdivtoo ptit3 MuaanoH
NEXT ROYAL ARCADE, OPPOSITE CENTRAL MARKETS,
FOB PRETTY DRESSES! POE SWEET HATS A. HP 3D BONTHETSI
FOR CHABMINTG PABACHIJTES !
FOE LOVELY GLOVES I
P o r
all 1c incl a of H oliday A. ttlr e (3E* ashionable and R, eas ozialole)
YOU CANNOT EQUAL
HORDERN and COMPANY, 486, 488, 490 Creorg*e-street, Sydney,
Next Eo} T al Arcade, right opposite Central Markets.
(Late G-unsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Sy cine y,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will giro
heir new cusine ft tricil, t a Tv/rTCi n tv/t a a ■vt"t\ n/r
JAMES 0- MARQUAND, Manager-
Will be Fubliabed Shortly,
“A GOLDEN SHANTY:
Australian Tales and Sketches in Prose and Verse
By ‘Bulletin.’ Writers.”
A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. ;if posted, 6d. extra.
A Frisco man has justshothis wife because
she persistently read him poetry of her own com-
position when he came home tired from business.
The editor of the Liverpool Porcupine
has been committed for trial under the obscene
libel clause for publishing a series of articles
describing visits to assignation houses in that city.
Queer advts. from Sydney E. News :
T OST.—Left in the Cleveland-street tram waiting-
u room, a Collector's Book, address inside of owner ;
and 2 other Books. Please return to either address.
TT/ANTED to Buy, cheap, an old Cow, about 20ft.
'' long. Aqua, Herald.
Police-Inspector Moore says, referring to
.Tack the Ripper :—“What makes it so easy for
him is that the women lead him, of their own free
Will, to the spot where they know interruption is
least likely. It is not as if he had to wait for his
chance ; they make the chance for him. And then
they are so miserable and so hopeless, so utterly
lost to all that makes a person want to live, that
for the sake of fourpence, enough to get drunk on,
they will go in any man’s company and run the
risk that it is not him. ‘ I tell many of them to
go home, but they say they have no home, and
when I try to frighten them and speak of the
danger they run, they’ll laugh and say: ‘ Oh, I
know what you mean. I ain’t afraid of him. It’s
the Ripper or the bridge with me. What’s the
odds ? ’”
The ticklish state of a certain Melbourne
building society evokes some moralisation on
building societies generally. They are mostly
run by the religious world. The committee-lists
bristle with the names of church and chapel, plate-
holders. Yet are many of the societies very nests
of those who devour widows’ houses, and for a
pretence make long prayers, for which reason they
shall receive greater damnation. The oppression
wrought by the building societies is incalculable
with all their apparatus of fines. What religious
men would not dare to do individually they do
in “commytee.” It is the case over again of
David Copperfield when he wanted a rise from
his employer, Mr, Spenlow, of Jorkins and Spen-
low. _ Nobody ever could find Jorkins, a purely
imaginary personage, but very convenient to
Spenlow, who said : “I should be only too glad,
my dear David, but you know Jorkins is such a
very hard nail.” Haven’t we all met this kind of
thing in business ? The Spenlows of the building
societies throw it all on the Jorkinses. Through
parliamentary influence the societies manage to
carry on virtually without control. The Evane-
scent Building Society is free from all the checks
imposed on banks.
J. H. H. Hood, barrister, of Victoria, has
been made Supreme Court Judge, with the ap-
proval of the legal profession. Purves bestows
the same eulogium as he did on Hodges’ eleva-
tion. But why not Purves himself? Well, the
fact is he admits he is not qualified for a judge.
Of Lord Brougham, as Lord Chancellor, it was
said, “He would be omniscient if he only knew a
little law.” Purves is somewhat in that category,
like Dick Ireland of yore. Purves never had a
studying disposition, save for human nature, in
which lies his strength. Many years ago, when
he and Hartley Williams were together at the
bar, he said, “ You will soon be a judge. I never
will.” Purves came out of his shell in smiting
Kerferd when that brewer Attorney-General was
made a judge. He was prepared to smite Sir
Bryan O’Loghlen in such a contingency. Fear of
Purves’s tongue qualifies the judicial appoint-
ments, by securing lawyers, at all events. The
wonder is that Dr. Madden so persistently re-
fuses judgeships. Hood was a great rowing man
a quarter of a century ago. The Richmond four-
oared crew, on the Yarra, beat everything. It
was composed of Hood and the three brothers
Mitchell, sons of a well-known brewer. Captain
Charley Taylor, now M.L.A. is another boating
man. Hood was marked for a judge, with his
Punch-like face, directly he went to the Bar. He
long divided the County Court lead with Frank
Gavan Duffy. Before that the leading County
Court barristers were G. P. Smith and Quinlan
before them Bindon and Newton. Hood’s father
was a Collins-streefc chemist and M.L.C.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS. 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. {New number.
IQS.)
Us© Batho’s Baking Powder.
The cabled result of the Cronin murder
trial, in which three men were sentenced to im-
prisonment for life and one to a short term of
imprisonment, is denounced as “monstrous.” The
sentences were, according to American custom,
fixed by the jury, which fortunately has the power
to enforce its own verdict. In Australia the jury
recommend a man to mercy—and the Crown care-
fully hangs him every time. Whatever the guilt
Of the accused, justice has been done in at least
three cases according to the spirit of the age. One
butchery is not atoned for by another still more
cold-blooded and brutal slaughter.
Reynolds recently points out that all the
European crowned heads attempted to wet-
blanket the French National Exhibition, that
none were present at its initiation, and none
have have visited the building during the six
months it remained open, except they sneaked in
unrecognised. M. Carnot, the President of the
Republic, and the French people in general treated
this malicious affront with contemptuous indiffer-
ence. Instead of spending vast sums in enter-
taining a host of royal cormorants, the people
themselves were made to partake of the feasts
and entertainments for which they them-
selves in reality paid. Balls, dinners, and fites
were frequently given, whereat working men,
their wives, and families were the guests ;
thus preventing a striking contrast to public
festivals organised, as at Athens, for the sole
behoof of a lot of royal persons who prefer feeding
at the cost of the working orders rather than their
own. ' The monarchical conspiracy against France
completely failed of its mischievous object. The
Exhibition has proven a gigantic success in every
particular. Few Frenchmen care a dump whether
kings and emperors came to it or stayed away.
Instead of showing to the world, as they expected,
that the absence of royalty would prove a death-
blow to Republicanism in whatever form it ap-
peared, the dog-in-the-manger policy of British
and other European monarchies has, so to say,
strengthened the Republic and popularised Re-
publican principles at home and abroad.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
*
PK>
J
.M
s
T
o
y
raw
}
.
OELISSA& PHILLIPS
3& 3 Bahra,ck Street.
Gr. B- informs his Customers
* anf !. tl l € L? ub,l ° >" general that he has the largest
0t Rearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Agent for the following celebrated
gunmakers J. Purdey & Sons, Cn. Boswell, John Rigby
and Go., Joseph Lano & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Thomas
island & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Weblbt
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cashmorb. All goods will bo
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-street. Svdncv
Price list on application. «.y
JNDISFENSAELE pOE RADIES
AND ALL PEESONS
With a Delicate Skini
If you wish to Protect yourself against CHAPPED
HANDS and CRACKED SKIN, and to keep YOUR
COMPLEXION in good condition during the whole
year use
MOUSON’S
i
(Savon au heurre tic Cacas.)
I his celebrated Soap consists chiefly of Cocoa Butter, (ex-
tractedin the manufacture of Chocolate) which is THE
MILDEST PAT KNOWN, and possesses a wonderfully
healing and softening influence upon the Skin. The
beneficent properties of this product make themselves
apparent by the delicious creamy lather it produces,
rendering even the coarsest SKIN AS SOFT AS
VEL VET.
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANKFORT-ON-TIIE-MAINB.
LONDON: 32 &33 HAINSELL-ST., B.C. PARIS: 29 RUE RADZIERtLE'
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENOE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
If You have
Nervous Debility
Sick Headache,
Bilious Compl'nts
Fever & Ague,
Wasting of Flesh
Sleepless Nights
Neuralgia,
Or any disease of the
Liter, Bowels or Kidnets, Lack op
Strength or Nerve Power,
you can be Relieved and Cured by
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
TONIC.
Price, 2s 6d & ss; Post, Is extra-
Prepared only by—
& co„
Chemists,
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
w - - For Sale by all Chemists,
JiJDWIN g. goeetz,
Stock and Share Broker,
A r^-THTg-i-p
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
A Wonderful Remedy-
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
is now Universally Acknowledged to be a wonderful
Remedy for Nervous and General Debility, Nervous
Prostration, Torpidity of the Liver, Indigestion, Palpit-
ation of the Heart, Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude,
Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypochondria, Loss of
Energy, and Appetite, Female Complaints, Dizziness,
Noises in the Head and Bars, Loss of Yital Power, AlohoUc
Craving, Premature Decline, Impoverished Bipod, Im-
paired Sight and Memory, Consumption in its early stages.
Effects of Youthful Indiscretions, Mania, and all diseased
conditions of the system preceding from Deficiency of
Nerve Force. A few doses speedily afford relief, whilst a
course effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances
emphatically testify- to the truth of, this statement.
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it for
themselves.
Each Drop is Worth a Drop of Crold.
There is no remedy like Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for
Female Complaints. Every female should have a
bottle ready at hand, because for Irregularities, etc.,
it surpasses all others. As the nervous system is the
main-spring' of human vigor and healthful regularity,
so where this complicated organism is deranged, Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine acts with a precision and curative effect
like the day spring dispersing the shades of night. The
whole organic system which depends upon the nerves for
its streams of electric force is recuperated and renewed
with this Great Vitaliser. The muscles rebound with the
energy of youth, appetite and healthful condition follow.
The skin becomes bright and clear, and the winter of
disease is made summer by the glorious sun of health.
Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support
the forcible truth of these assertions, and one trial will
render certainly doubly sure.
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
Is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, and is
ONLY PREPARED BY
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
410, George Street, Sydney.
N.B.—ln consequence of spurious imitations of “ Tonic
Nervine,” which are calculated to deceive the public,
Marshall Bros, have to request that purchasers see that
the Label on every bottle bears their signature, thus—
without which no bottle is genuine. Ask for Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine and see that you get it. Trade mark:
‘‘Tonic Nervine."
NOTICE,
NEIGHBOURS.
K NEW novel,
XX By the Author of “Tiff,” “A Great Mis-
take, ’ “Ruby North’s Lovers,” &o.
Is Continued in
HERALD PART FOR
NOVEMBER,
Which contains also the continuation of
HE STORY OF AN ERROR.
pAMILY
T
A NEW NOVEL,
XL By the Author of “His Wedded Wife,” “A
lata! Dower,” “Ladybird’s Penitence,” &o.
Also complete Stones, Essays, Answers to Cor-
respondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas.
Charades, Riddles, &c.
p AMILY HERALD PART for NOVEMBER.
x u . The Australasian says:
.. This favourite domestic magazine retains all
its old interest and variety.”
P AMTLY HERALD may be had in Half-yearly
± Vo umes and in Monthly Parts of all Colonial
-Booksellers and Newsagents; or the Monthly
Part direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
-England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
-THE-
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing Machine.
are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & CO.
l9 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Wool.
WINCHCQMBE, CARSON &
Wool Stores : CENTRA!, WHARF; Prod,,co Stores : CIRCULAR QUAY;
m °“" -■ 4:S MAOQTJAniE street NORTH.
00.
SYDNEY


—THE—
Fresh Food & |ce (X
LIMITED,
harbour street,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful , but it is
quite true.
jagr- Weekly Accounts.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
loan &, Mercantile Agency
COMPANY. LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000
Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* 1888^89+
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
mHK greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
J- Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
tagr” Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &0., Held E/sgularly.
jggr - Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAS'iHOUS' ; IS
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
Business Announcements*
P. c. NICHOLAS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners k Pastrycooks,
City Buildings;
736 George Street, 736
-FT A ~ST IVL .A. 33. IKZ IS 1?-
Steam Works :
617 619. 621, 639, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, ftc. f Made to Order.
PolmperiaTTotei.
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs, Eirst-class Accommodation,
Private Suites. First Class Sample Rooms,
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
s _ \ 1 / / / *
'Photographic,-*
Portraits
\ Views
M»K-
-314c
Ten
Royal hoi
Esplanade,
ST, KILDA, victoria,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths,
minutes from Station.
H. MfiONEY - - - - Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682. ,
First-class Accommodation for visitors
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
I
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD-
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO..
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize —MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
jTTudTwici & sons,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
ť
ŧ
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Stbeets.
do YOU WANT TO KNOW
HOW TO DISPLAY!
YOUR ADVERTISEMENTS ? WRITE TO US
F. T. WIMBLE & CO., Advertising Experts, 15 Post
Ofllce Chambers, Sydney.
SYDNEY takes the lead.
The Sydney Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdresssing Palace
AND
TOILETTE REQUISITES,
02 KIKTG STREET.
(Directly opposite the Arcade),
NOW OPEN.
The Public Verdict—A long-felt want filled,
an Establishment that Sydney can be proud of.
No Expense has been spared in fitting up this
Establishment for the convenience and comfort of
its patrons.
A large staff of the very best Gentlemen Work-
men are employed in the Ladies’ and Gentlemen s
Hairdressing Rooms, and all work is guaranteed.
A SELECT STOCK OF
Gentlemen's Mercery* Perfumery*
Ladies’and Gentlemen’s Toilet Requisites.
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco, &c-,
Sold at the Lowest Cash Prices.
LAUNDRY AGENCY, &c., &c.
Sydney and Melbourne Daily and Weekly Papers
kept on File.
All Ladies and Gentlemen are invited to visit
and insi ect this establishment, and be convinced
that it is not equalled in the Southern Hemisphere.
HOURS:
From 8.30 a.m. to 7 p.m. SATURDAYS, 9 p.m.
Medical
*=9-»
k
ss
Me
Gw
The Seven Cuticura Boys
These seven oeautmu ooys owe their beauty of
ekin, luxuriance of hair, purity of blood, and
freedom from hereditary taint or humors of the skin
or sealp to the celebrated Cuticura Remedies.
For cleansing, purifying and beautifying the skin
of children and infants, and curing torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the
skin, scalp and blood, with loss of hair, from in-
fancy to old age, Cuticuba, the great skin cure,
and Cuticuba Soap, an exquisite skin beautifler,
prepared from it externally, and Cuticuba Re-
solvent, the new blood purifier, internally, are
infallible.
Tour most valuable Cuticuba Remedies have
done my child so much good that I feel like saying
this for the benefit of those who are troubled with
ekin disease. My little girl was troubled with
Eczema, and I tried several doctors and medicines,
but did not do her any good until I used the Cuti-
cuba Remedies, which speedily cured her, for
which I owe you many thanks and many nights of
rest. ANTON BOSSIMBR, Edinburgh, Ind.
The Cuticuba Remedies are in great demand.
The Cuticuba Resolvent sells better than any
other blood purifier. The Cuticuba Soap is
praised by my customers, especially mothers, who
say it is the best for babies, preventing and curing
scall head and similar diseases.
GEORGE HOBBS, P. M., Collins, Texas.
PIN
IPLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
1 oily skin prevented by Cpticttba Boap.
Our little son will be four years ot age on tne
25th inst. In May, 1885, he was attached with a
very painful breaking out of the skin. We called
In a physician, who treated him for about four
weeks. The child received little or no good from
the treatment, as the breaking out, supposed by
the physician to be hives in an aggravated form,
became larger in blotches and more and more dis-
trussing. Wo were frequently obliged to get up
in the night and rub him with soda in water,
strong liniments, etc. Finally, we called other
physicians, until no less than sis had attempted to
cure him, all alike failing, and the child steadily
getting worse and worse* until about the 20th of
last July, when we began to give him Cuticura
Resolvent internally, and the Cuticura and Cu-
ticuba Soap externally, and by the last of August
he was so nearly well that we gave him only one
dose of the Resolvent about every second day
for about ten days longer, and ho has never been
troubled since with the horrible malady.
H. E. RYAN, Cayuga, Livingston Co., 111.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this fourth
day of January, 1887. C. N. COE, J. P-
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticuea, 50c. ; Soap.
25o.; Resolvent, $1. Prepared by the Pottbb
Deug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
BABY’S
Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau*
tided by the use of Cpticcba Soap.
Address:
R TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Anglo Scandinavian
5 Cold Medal
Milk.
Acknowledged
The Best
'irlvSisT
,UU|
flifa
M
m
9 ‘>i
m
m
tiffl
UiUU*
m>'A
M
m
mm
W.i
m
Mi
«
m
auftiS
m
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLB PUBVBTOKS TO THB
Colonial & Indian Exhibition, London.
(By Special Appointment.)
Wholesale Agents:
Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M.
B. FOSTER
IBIR.-A. 3ST3D
& SONS. LONDON,
AL-E .A-HSTID STOUT.
-)(-
“ BUGLE
PUBLIC ''NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT rf very into quriity, m bottle. with
skillfully forged labels have lately been 1 0 t^at a n CO rks as well as capsules of the
We desire to warn our bnends of the f i retand t<> statethat all # add
bottles shipped by Messrs. MLB. 1 OSTEK&bONb toßuow Brand” offered
for y® 1* hy the nnder.ign.Ki, who have into-
<°«"»**»»
BAX.CHIBT, JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney,
Agents fob Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons. -
Ink for Kupper-. Elborfold Ln. K nr Bee.
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Redimen,,
And He Didn’t Get His Drink.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
He was splendid in his suit of shiny black, and
he was bedizened with jewellery. _ A small pot-
hat perched airily on one side of his bushy head,
and a neat, silver-topped cane completed the mag-
nificent turn-out. As he lounged into the bar of
the principal hotel he felt like the “ Cynosure of
the Empyrean. ,
“And now, old woman, give us a glass ot
rum !”
This he said in a loud and cheerful tone, as
much as to imply that the buxom matron _ behind
the bar need have no fears about the validity of
the cheque which he carelessly tossed upon the
counter, and that he was a man to whom it would
pay her well to be attentive.
Slowly from a seat in the far comer rose the
lynx-eyed landlord, the husband of the buxom
matron thus familiarly addressed. He gently
wiped with his handkerchief the spectacles by the
aid of which he had been reading the local paper,
and approached the gorgeous applicant for a drink.
“ What is it you require? ” he wildly asked.
“ Glass of rum,” was the reply.
“ We’re not allowed to sell drink to kanakas,”
issued suavely from the landlord’s lips.
“ Thunder ! ” shouted the individual addressed,
“ Do you take me for a kanaka ? Why, I’m a
true-born British subject, / am ! ”
“You may be,” said our host, “but I dont
know it, and the law is strict,”
In vain the colonial gentleman —he was none
other than the cook and steward of the labour
vessel, Ariadore, then in port—expostulated. The
landlord was firm and quiet.
“ All right,” he said at length, “ I’ll prove it
to you directly.” And away he went with his
cheque. , , . , , , , .
Half-an-hour had elapsed, during which busi-
ness had been brisk, and our host was once more
buried in the newspaper columns. Then the re-
splendent darkey re entered, triumphantly waving
a sheet of blue foolscap, which he threw down
upon the counter with a loud “There!” Perhaps
that will satisfy you !”
Shortly again the landlord rose, removed ms
spectacles, wiped and replaced them, scanning
over their top the features of the wrathful one as
if he had never seen him before.
“ Well,” queried that individual, am t sat
good enough ? It’s cost me 18s. anyhow. .
It was a declaration before the notary public
that Samuel Squarefoot was a British subject,
born in Jamaica. After a careful perusal of the
document, it was handed back to its owner with-
out remark, and the landlord gazed away behind
the coloured one into the somewhat empty street
beyond. . .
Mr. Samuel Squarefoot became impatient.
“Come on,” said he, “ give us the rum.”
“ You can’t get any drink here,” was the answer.
“Wha-a-t!” roared Samuel, “not after that
declaration!” . , , ,,
“No, not after that declaration, repeated the
man in possession. “That declaration, as you
call it, is merely signed by you and witnessed by
the notary-public, and you might declare anything
for all I know. Anyway, you’ll have to take it
Then ensued a storm which passed as the idle
wind over the imperturbable landlord’s head. He
would not be moved, except at length to say : if
you don’t clear out I’ll give you in charge of the
police.” . . ,
Sam did clear out, swearing vengeance. As he
left the bar, our host returned to his seat in the
corner and gently murmured : “ T’K teach you to
call my good lady old woman /”
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whitb
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.


READ THIS! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
rmstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic—a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., for all impurities Of the blood. 2s; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhma Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &c., &c. 3s 6d; 36s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, iita-
purities of the blood, &o. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is 6d; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s.
Armstrong’s 15G Mixture for discharges. 3s 6d.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s 6d &ss6d ; 30s & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s 6d; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is 6d; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). 6d ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &0., from the hair. Is ; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is 6d; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d ; 6s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per doz.
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leather, &c. 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is6d ; 6s 6d & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment forhorses. 2s; & 18s doz.
Armstroilg’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &Is6d ; 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment the best remedy for
splints, curbs, etc. Is 6d ; 13s doz.
Armstrong's Worm and Condition Powders, for horses
(in tins). 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes,
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, &o. —
all ready mixed. 6d ;8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H- C- ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Trusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Largest Stock in Sydney.
FOR DRUGS > CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND FOR SPECIAL PRICE LIST (POSTED FREE).
Public Companies.
WESTERN 1 AUSTRALIA.
3 \
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
The CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £iu Each.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
7b Intercolonial Investment Co,, Unite 1
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
—THE —
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
ASD
FINANCIAL. COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies' Act, 1871,
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: SOI I'ITT STREET
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the Country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits Byears, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 0 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
=CLYDE=
SMELTING, CRUSHING and CHLDMT ON
WORKS,
CLYDE, near GRANVILLE,
Mew South Wales.
Lead and Silver Ores,
ALSO,
Gold. Concentrates,
Purchased in any quantity.
Miners and others are invited to send Small or
Large Parcels of Ore to the above Works, which,
on being assayed, Cash Returns will be at once
remitted.
Tariff of Charges forwarded on application to
the Secretary at the Works, Clyde.
The British and Mew South Wales In vestment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office; 240 PITT STREET.
"DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
■*-' Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
8 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M ‘DONALD, Manager.
Business Announcements.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OP
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Head Office
—THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office;
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
cr
vgsl*
a
ONO
■■a
\s>
w
C 3
a
a
=
mw
■il
i 1
m*
ROBERTS & CO.,
—W HOLESALE-
Ironmongers* Importers, Iron and Machinery Merchants,
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 GraCechurch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers’
Squatters'
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers' and Blacksmiths’
Couchtuilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Kortiug’s Gas Engines —The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels'.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
THE
PLUM”
KAZOIt.
THJ p i
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR.
WE recommend'gentlemen who shave themselves to try the “PLUM” RAZOR. It is purely
Hollow Ground and NE\ ER requires Grinding and we guarantee each Razor for two
years. Set ready for use. Price, single Razor, 10s. Cd. ; or a pair of Razors, Black Handles, in
strong Leather Case, £1 Is. In Ivory, single Razor, 15s. Pair in case, 30s. Send P. 0.0. Every
Razor sent by Registered Post.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
“POTOSI” HAIRDRESSING SALOON, _
680 G-EOEGE STREET SYDNEY
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llnvannali dinars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor de Konlto "
Brand of Cigars and “ Empire Cigarettes."
DA.KT. SULLIVAKT
(Late of Brisbane Cate),
Has bought MATTERSON’S HOTEL, opposite
Lassetter s, George-street.
Extensive alterations and improvements just
completed. Recollect DAN’S OLD REPUTA-
TION for the best brands in the market.
DAN. SULLIVAN
Has a nice cold collation with salad, between one
and two o’clock everyday.
Medical.
PULVERMACHEE’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over F orty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy. ” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <3c SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strbet West, Melbourne.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
EIT A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Business Announcements.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Roller ||lour and fj|rain |
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
korea,
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of .the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
UMBRIILIAS
RE-COVERED.
OTUDY ECONOMY
° and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined arid made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfikld Hill, Svdnbt,
between
Liverpool rf; Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allkinds ofTinsfor Confectioners.
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
-A. Trial Solicited.
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
x Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
EMPIRE BUILDINGS,
Collins Street West, MELBOUEHE
(Near Scott’s Hotel).
WE beg to inform our Friends and the
Public that we have Opened these
Grand Premises as an
OYSTER SALOON
AND
Continental Dining Rooms.
PRIVATE DINNERS provided on Shortest Notice.
- Moderate Charges—
BIKTI & KATZ,
PROPRIETORS.


]Vled c vl.
NERVOUS MEM.
EUREKA '
5P
beltoA&
SGBA/ //'
rK
aMiii*
pY
A WIT7T7R FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NEKYOUS SYSTEEI.
Complete wi*h Ptppensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
end all weakness caused by indiscretion. J ains in the
Back. Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
Ihe wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 80 days
triad, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
‘ ven the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear "than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until thev have moved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage. ♦
Address:— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0.5 Sydney.
Dr- James D- Llewellyn,
L.K.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.S.A., BOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN—
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston & Elizabeth Sts),
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“ Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases —price,
3s. lid. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rosa s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
P-.. 11 A y. T The Public are requested to notice the
wCt Ll wiwll ! words, Rose s Celebrated Eye
liOtlon, with the Trade Mark (a Hose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
3E31. ROSE-
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
UERV O U S DEBILITY.
■Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, or BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, which
arc a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address
Herr Rass-Mussen, “Koselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
EROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent r chronic discharges o! the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
JT. FERRE,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney;
E, DOUBLET, 185 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Du. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST & ACCOUCHEUR.
3aaes of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation:
Sto 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
B 4 Victoria ?a~h Tomaso. Mswtown Road
;opposite University),
13 T«T 2ST 23 -%r.
T»leclical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Cil4
a?
PATENT
&
4*.
4$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box lor bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the. stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, <fec. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
vsufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No_ female should
he without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and #-ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which _ nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Be ecu AM’s Cough
Finns a trial and the most violent Cough -will in a
short time he removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. -R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
t
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases cJTthe Genlto-Urlnary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
I, CORBETTS BUILDINOS, eomtr of George
and EUeabeth Street*, BrUban*.
OOI.SULTATION8 FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. »tamp.
Hotels.
r<Li
H °
e°*L
BOWDENS
»«U1
OWP "T- £3 HOTEL,
Elisabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C. BOWDEN .. ~ Proprietor
WBSTSIJR.M HOTEL,
Warru.amtoool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. SS" Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
IEST“ Livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobh & Co.’s Coaches. Thos
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE
Proprietor.
Business Annonneeih- tits
HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125 000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities tor dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can he ascertained on
XleajdL ! R.©ad 2
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - <0;bl«3 g3sa.iH.iM-S -
Per post, Is. 3d.
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne; Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane; J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide; Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCOA.
‘THE BULLETIN’S”
Wholesale Agents :
ţ
Branch;
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
•UHUPACTuRERS
a importers er _
HATS CAPS it
*436 CEORCE ST
3YDNEY %
C/oposiCe LeusetCens
/V
MANUFACTURING MATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYD NEV
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
m.
c
yi
THE BEST
IN THE WOKIB
fll/CH
<2-
INC
*7
*/
PO
i2S
*•€
MANUFACTURED 6* . _,
gi 'J/rncs Chanhoh -ytarivvrS l
ld hy all Srtecjt-x-s t S-’ereAtefirry
vrS* jg&t
Ann ID (huikt f^
rpHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent C as-reeking Mrch ns;
The Harvey Patent Safety I'ercseno I. r.:p,
AND T!JK
Hew Era Portable Ca: Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopto i by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order ol
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for -Australasia:
EC. “XL SMITH tfpx 00.,
494 Kent Street gontlv SYWILT s
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Uvokks Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Mra.ro :nk.
Send for Price Lis! and Circular!
‘NO TENSION” SEWING MACHINE.
NOISELESS—LIGHTEST RUNNING.
Wlost Beautiful and Durable Work,
AND DOES NOT INJURE HEALTH.
ALSO FOll
Beehives and Supplies, Incubators and Brooders,
Patent Extending Trellis, Stoves for W ood, Coal,
Gas or Oil, Mangles and Washing Machines,
Carpet Sweepers, Preserving Jars, Ice Chests and
Refrigerators, American Egg Cases with Portable
Fillers.
HEBBLEWHITE <Sc 00.,
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention this paper.]
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Gandies,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
“What is Home without a Picture?”
Xj. beeuascofi,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
169 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OK
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, «tc..
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS.
oils,C6lo uf ' s 4 Paints
Wall papers fram 3?roll
PA I
529 George BathurstSt.
Brickfield Hill . ——
WALTEE ZEIOIPIE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to he addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from t
Runners in the street.
PRINCE OE WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-st., East, Melbourne.
Tins well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience Centrally
Situ ted.


SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Booms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture <fe Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
( 32 Chapel St,, Prahran. 'I
\ 2 Albert St., Windsor. /
Branch
Offices
P. 3=&« LARKIN,
IMPORTER OF
■WIITES, x SPIRIT S 7 x IB IE IE IR- S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jamkison’s, Dunvillk’s Roe’s and Wish's (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennessy’s, Kartell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
iS’”" The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale anil jingle Buttle Departments, 283 anil 284 €[emqge-st., i^yilney.
SEND FOE A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ leFRESHMMT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
ť
m
■r
■ 3
w
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
!>«■;—i
10,000 Bedsteads,
From 3-Os. 6dL. to £35.
—-
W
mmm
ESTATE AGENTS
A'JCTIO
EERS
m
BAY L E E & CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
335 Collins Street, Melbourne, and 14 Ckapel
Street, South Yarra.
Free Frescriptiona
Are to be found in the “ Light and Lilfe,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will
be sent Dree, sealed) for Six Penny Stamps.
Address — «
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
t
X O
COCOA
9
MASON
BROTHERS,
II
ii
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock foe Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China ami
EARTHENWARE.
WINES. BE KBS A SPIJUTS,
AND OENKKAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN' and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GA.YEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. M E LAIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Bale Ale.
J)R. SMITH, U.S.A.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING .ROOMS;
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
-I : Y
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
t
Com
o
X
PL
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin; is
most cooling and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden. Co our.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, a- pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints— White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
TAKTGYES, L.IMITEB,
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.P.
BOILEKS,
1 to 35 a.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CENWAL FUMFS,
2" to 40 ' discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
ZLiaitlxes.
SUZUKI MAM.
AtUj &o.
r-.
■ ft*.; if
ifr-:
KTO&aKSaF
V-. ■':.. '• ■ .^fedMß
'-■' «
(i.tn'lo at/fZ
3*£r*'.
2G*Si
WINDING ENGINES,
Hauling Engines.
Battery
Saw-mill Engines.
7LOULL ENGINES,
ENGINES
FOE
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubular Boilers,
CO KM* II HOILEKS.
&0., &o.
We invite al those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, huge or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery
Visitors, whether buyers or n t, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
12 0, 131, 133 & 135 HA.Y STRE3E3T, H A. YMARKET, SYD3STEY.
