

Ask your
Grocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
u . Jf' & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter.”—Lancet.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
SfZO
T SI
*
Tlie Best
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at
in the World I
every International Exhibition where they have competed.
of the American Waltham Watch Co. ® Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of value U.S. Mint assay ’ ther jLngllsh Hallmarked or of a guaranteed standard
IS Sii
•obfej™«£“ ,hl! ”*»• «o«ißil»gemo{ horok*i^
s ”‘ h Vic * ori *’ * Dd
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof. kingdom.
wHSm gSSfS rn*m.
WAMHAM Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and JeweUera
•Hawtii
'
wm
N
£
CHRONOGRAPH
A
COMPANY.
Waltham BT3.lK3.lngs, Bond Street, SycJney
Ca<3^ms>motnrj>r»rT-^y»
-^^-3—=—«—-—— -
I®S“,,., s oap-> Manufacturers,
the list k the work of the child, andtbe naL atThich Ve°child »ttSs. aSSCtSII!^
BURROUGHEB & WATTS
(LONDON),
Billiard-Table Manufacturers,
All Requisites fox* -tlx© Game. .
Alao X.a.wxx Texa&ia, Cricket & Football.
—*—- , m-
8 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus: —
a#
#
1
y"
#
TJS33
liebig COMPANY'S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
t
EVERY LADY HER OWN DRESSMAKER
BT USING
MADAME WEIGEL’S CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
“WEIGEL’S JOURNAL and CATALOGUE OF FASHIONS ” contain-
Madame WUIGEIL,
101 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Near Tramway).
Insure Your Health Against At.t. Risks
—BT TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia.
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Plow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
Ho But Aperient Per Children. Numerous Oold Medals.
SUPERIOR to all OTHERS
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &0., accompanying each
Bottle.)
x x-
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S
■X X-
Win
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d„ 2s. fid., 3s. 6d. Each.
olesale Agents Messrs. ELLICTT Bros, I,td.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
SIDS
HI
£
C 3
O
A?,
O
w;
w:
X
v
On&\
SIR ROGER
56
a:
C 3
y
Ta
i£
2
dIXSONS
Or. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now l>eing introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
IB every "Wise mother will certainly
use it.
Mb. JUDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
ţ
“Hj*
■•SSg
t,
jfn consequence of Imitations fof THE WORC ESIERSHI RE
SA IfCE which arelcalculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Pemns
have to request that Purchasers : sse that the Label on every bottbi
hears their Signature thus —•
Os
without whkh\no ibpttle of the,'original WOP
'SA UCE ■• is genuine ,
•Ask far LEA and PER RING? Sauce,.and see Warner on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and tor Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, 6r*ey;Jmfii;.andjby Grocers and OUmon throughout the Wofld.
Tciylopßr#
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
7 ; - . ' ■ • . ~s
. . - • . ■.
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OB PACKETS THBCU6MOUT THE COLONY.
WILLIAM --- CAEGrILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
“Can’t B Beat.”
“CANT B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of C heap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “Can’t B Beat.”
Something New ! Something New !
The JB2 Package, “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
smoker’s Companion!
containing the following
11b. Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
lib. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
lib. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American To oacco
11b. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. IHS Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Out Ruby,
American
£11). Long Cut, American
Delivered Free at Redfern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value aub
atituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state wha-
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 5o
per cent, saved I 50 per cent saved ! Note the address
MICK SIMMONS,
“Can't B Beat,” Haymarkbt, Sydnbt.
Brittenbekg & CO.
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON'S
PLORUOA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choice at exotics.
Of M Dealert and of the Manufacturers
3. & 33. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
TradeMark^Wh^l^^on-J^Wen
T. LAWLESS, Junk.,
37 MAMET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
, Tear ending Tear ending
Oct., 1886. OCt., 1887.
. £350,000 .. £431,125
. • 120,000 .. 206,685
261,500 .. 391,366
247,840 .. 307,828
451,085 .. 797,990
Deposits received at following Rates :
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per,cent.; 3 months, sper:aent
Tear ending
Oct., 1885.
Subscribed Capital .. £180,425
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 61,630
Deposits Received .. 93,581
Advances Made .. .. 123,248
Total Income .. .. 200,106
Tear ending
Oct., 1888.
£580,000
251,015
1,133,649
025,836
3,048,651
Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH.
To persons who desire to put by
small sums of uncertain amount,
and who wish to secure Interest
upon such stuns at a Fair Rate, and for EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the veVy best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five per cent. per Annum
Cpon their Daily Balance.
Ample Funds for Borrowers. Terms Liberal.
S'
a
PREMIER
Buildingf Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
£25 Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum Is paid over to their holders in
Cash. The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received
in October, 1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had con
tributed only £l4 65,, at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
j : y
Hon. John Himmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, Acting-Secretary.
Jt
THE
Federal coffee Palace,
-CORNER OB'-
King and. Collins Streets, Melbourne,
Containing Five Hundred and Sixty Rooms, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES OP ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
Special Dining Saloon for Ladies , sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL on GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Mdnii, presided over by an experienced Chef , assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING & RECEPTION ROOMS.
Hot, Ool«3l and Slaower Batb.s.
Night Porter always in Attendance. Telegrams and Letters promptly attended to.
George O olxen
Manager


The Bulletin
voi. 10— NO. 493.
SATURDAY, JULY 27, 1889.
Price, 6d.
iSP
mm
■fiS# 1 ' 1
/jy
“Didn’t Know it was Loaded.”
LITTLE HIGGINS: “PLEASE, MUM, I WASN’T TRYIN' TO HIT YOUR SCHOOL AND I DIDN'T MEAN TO BREAK YOUR WINDOWS I WAS A-SHIEN' AT
SOME SCHOOL HOUSES OVER YONDER ACROSS THE SEA!”
SCHOOLMARM: "WELL, THE NEXT TIME YOU FEEL LIKE THROWING AT SCHOOLS ACROSS THE SEA, JUST GO OVER THERE AND DO SO AT
SHORTER RANGE!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians. ’
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO,,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, NEAV SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ’ £lO 0
Half -yearly 0 1:1 6
Quarterly 0 0 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Perse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say dOOO words, arc specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are. enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tire Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—-which you may pay by T'ost Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—ydu
can hare Tire Bulletin* posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin* is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom ire do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY. JULY 27, 1880.
Colonial Defence.
In vlcav of the late startling disclosures made
by Mr. Creed, M.L.C., regarding the state
of the ordnance which may he said to form
the first line of defence for New South
Wales, it would be as well to consider for a
moment the question of Australia’s liability
to attack, and the best means for meeting a
descent made either for exploitering pur-
poses or for permanent conquest. At the
outset it becomes necessary to examine the
opinions held with apparent sincerity and
promulgated Avith considerable zeal by those
Avho see, or affect to see, in Imperial Federa-
tion a sufficient answer to the important
question regarding the future of the great
trans-marine pxxmnces of the British Em-
pire. It is the contention of these persons
that even a federated Australia, if inde-
pendent as well, Avould be quite unable to
prevent foreign settlement on its - long
Avestern or northern sea-board, or to cope
with a powerful expedition sent against the
Eastern colonies Avith objects similar to
those Avhich took the British to Canada ,130
years ago. Before entering on the subject
of Australia’s fitness or inability to hold her
own in the face of a strong European attack,,
it Avill he convenient to clear the ground by
an endeavour to estimate the chance of such
an attack if the Continent of Australia laid
aside her swaddling-clothes to-morroAv and
demanded a place among the nations as a
Democratic Republic fashioned chiefly on
the American pattern.
When the rcpresentatiA'es of Britain,
much to their oavu chagrin, and that of their
moonstruck master, signed the Paris treaty
of 1783 acknowledging the independence of
the United States, the population of the
latter Avas about equal to that of Australia
to-day. Yet, Avith an unknoAvn wilderness
swarming Avith fierce aborigines in one
direction'; with Spaniards on their southern
border and Britons on their northern, the
peace A\ r as kept for thirty years, and Avould
have remained longer unbroken but for the
insolent claims made by the London
authorities to the right of searching Ameri-
can vessels on the high seas. For their
services during the struggle which may be
said to have ended on the fall of Yorktown,
the French received a large slice of the
territory now known as the I Jnited States, and
the Spaniards another. Still,' hemmed in as
it were, by foreigners, the newly
nation \vas suffered to wax strong and
vigorous without molestation. In fact, the
French envoys who, twenty years before the
treaty of Paris, had signed away Canada, did
so with a light heart. They knew that it
was merely a question of time when the
colonies, bred to freedom and rapidly in-
creasing in power, would break away from
the foolish monarch whoso long reign was
hut (he uninterrupted struggle of a narrow
mind against the cause of mankind. Not
only were the United States left untroubled
until molestation with a view to conquest
was no longer possible, but other provinces,
fired by their example, threw off the galling
yokes of Spain and Portugal, until now,
with the exception of the Union Jack, no
foreign flag waves between the Arctic Circle
and Terra Del Fuego. Nor would the
English ensign still float on the West of the
Atlantic but that, owing to almost complete
self-government, the immense territory
where it flies is but one remove from inde-
pendence. But one step more and Canada
will become what Nature intended she should
he—a portion of the world’s grandest politi-
cal combination.
We have thus seen that the only foreign
danger that ever approached America since
her start, over a century ago, on her
unexampled career, came from her arro-
gant parent over the sea. Every now
and then some bizarre Australian politi-
cian writes to the papers to say that, as
blood is so much thicker than water, the
seventy millions at present under the Stars
and Stripes would be only too glad to join an
English-speaking Confederacy. British states-
men preserve a judicious silence regarding
this bold scheme, while Americans, when
they mention it at all, do so but to ridicule.
To ns it appears that the game at present
being played by Canada is an exceedingly
dangerous one for herself. England gains
nothing by such a possession, whether in the
way of trade or of naval and military strength.
The Canadians pay no Imperial taxes, govern
themselves, limit the import of English goods
by. means of a high tariff, and are of no
possible use to the parent State —unless the
growing likelihood of dragging her into war
with a potent people is considered advan-
tageous. As for the Dominion folk them-
selves, they, like mischievous children, are
busy playing with a powder-flask which,
should it explode, will certainly start by
lifting them some distance. It will he seen
then, that, in spite of immense territory,
small population, fruitful soil and proximity
to Europe, together with many more incen-
tives to invasion, America has been suffered
to develope peacefully.
Let us now turn to South America and
endeavour to ascertain how it comes that a
continent more than twice the size of Aus-
tralia, divided into numerous independent
and unfriendly States, possessing every
variety of soil and climate, together with
rivers, mountains arid plains second to none
—how it happens that such a land, for all its
fertility and comparative contiguity, has
been left so long untroubled by threats of
invasion, and is likely to remain so. There is
Brazil, with an area greater than Australia ;
there are Peru and Chili, famous for their
minerals ; while the Argentine Republic con-
tains nearly*a million' square miles with an
average of about two people to each. How
is it that the European powers, with whose
enmity the Imperial Federation cranks
threaten us, should we set up for ourselves,
do not swoop down on these fair lands and
gobble them up ? Italians in thousands are
pouring into La Plata, settling round
Buenos Ayres and peopling the valleys of
Paraguay. But is there any danger that
their national flag'will follow them and be
hoisted on the shores of the great estuary ?
Not the least. For the Italians know that
the loyal colonists of one generation would
. he the rebels of the next. Of what use
would he the expenditure of blood and trea-
sure in securing a footing in La Plata if the
children or grandchildren of the conquerors
demanded-autonomy find defied the country
of their-sires ? In brief , the American Re-
volution taught England (arid the world) one
signal lesson that will not be’readily forgotten.
It was, that subjects or colonists separated by
long stretches of sea from the parent State
have either to be governed despotically like
the quondam possessions of Britain, Spain,
and Portugal in America—in which case
they revolt when strong enough—or allowed
to govern themselves like the Canadian
Dominion, South Africa, and Australia. In
the latter case, it would require a person of
exceptional intelligence to prove that they
are worth the holding.
# * *
When a nation like England Avins a great
possession like India by the sword and holds
it by the same tenure the benefit to the con-
querors is obvious. Anyone who has paid
attention to the exhaustive articles on
British rule in India Avhich appeared
in recent London magazines will see
at once how the Peninsula’s life-blood is
drained by the strangers. Their merchants
chouse, their soldiers bully, and their civil
servants rob the unhappy land. But this
cannot bo done where master and dependent
are of the same race ; where the henchman’s
freehold is twenty times the size of the
chief’s, and where the liegeman’s strength
grows with ten times the rapidity of the
lord’s. In such a case separation becomes
inevitable in the course of time. It may or
may not lie accomplished without violence ;
but accomplished it will he. People who
fail to see the necessity for ultimate separa-
tion, fail because of their ignorance of one
of the fundamental characteristics of human
nature. A million of freemen, a large pro-
portion of them actually born at “ Home,”
may he content to remain in leading-strings
and think it rather advantageous than other-
wise to have no separate national existence.
But wait till that million has grown, to ten -
th! all but an insignificant number are sons
of the soil, and till the leaven of independ-
ence has begun to work. To ask such a land
to be content with the status of a province is
like asking a powerful young man if he
would not wish to he once more a child.
Both the country and the youth might occa-
sionally long for a return of earlier times
and fewer responsibilities, but Nature says,
“Not so ; you’ve an allotted race to run
and you must either gird up your loins for
the tussle or invite universal contempt.”
European statesmen have been quite aware of
all this ever since the American farmers defied
the mercenaries of King George. It is this
very knowledge which has kept the Union
territory inviolate for over a hundred years,
and which would preserve Australian ground
from unfriendly expeditions for a similar
period if the great island was federated and
free to-morrow. A recent number of an
ultra-loyal Melbourne journal ridicules the
idea of independence, considering that less
than two hundred men are available for the
defence of the whole Western Australian
littoral. It is doubtful whether so many
could be quickly mustered to hold an invader
at bay in the fruitful South American lands
between the 40th and 60th parallels. For
the reasons already advanced, however, it is
pretty certain that if the defence of Western
Australia rested on a solitary shepherd with
a pair of wooden legs, he might live to he a
veritable patriarch without having his un-
eventful life disturbed by the clash of anus.
# # #
It is when wo turn from the reassuring
prospect of a free Australia’s immunity from
molestation to the probability of a hostile
visit because of our dependence, that the
question of defence assumes an importance
which it could not otherwise claim, For it
should never he forgotten that if colonial
ships are burnt and colonial cities “ bre-
marcked ” within the next decade or so it will
be because of our attachment to the dear
parent who seldom loses an opportunity of
snubbing us. Should a half-ton projectile
land on the General Post-office at Sydney,
or Melbourne, or Brisbane, or Adelaide,
it might be said with truth that the
sins of the mother were finding out the
child. Bearing all this in mind, the recent
disclosures regarding the forward state of
defence preparations in New South Wales
are somewhat disquieting. Coming so
soon upon the “burglary” scare, they are
apt to disagree with all but the soundest
digestions. One of Napoleon’s axioms was
that an island was merely a fortress sur-
rounded by a ditch rather wider than usual,
Cross the ditch and the fortress fell. In the
Fortnightly Review, too, Lord Wolseley
advances the by no means original convic-
tion that if you sit down long enough before
a stronghold and cut off' all commerce with
the outside world, the place is sure to fall.
But when the island or the fortress is as big
as Europe an enemy might sit over against
it till the Greek Kalends without forcing a
surrender. Indeed, the longer he waited
the stronger and more defiant the garrison
would become. As for starving Australia
out the idea is about as sensible as that of
the Frenchman who, leaving Paris for the
United States to start a Republic, was dis-
appointed to find that one was flourishing
there already. To defend the capitals and the
coasts in their vicinity while raising numerous
bodies of fairly-disciplined men to hold the
country against a hostile advance was all that
was necessary, For some considerable time
past Mr. Creed, in the N.S.W. Legislative
Council, has been foiled in his endeavours
to ascertain the true state and strength of the
local military preparations. His efforts have
been persistently, almost venomously, op-
opposed by the present Government. At
length, when concealment was no longer
possible, comes the news that while some of
the batteries have no guns at all others are
rendered formidable by powerful pieces
which have not been fired for years and are
at present loaded to the muzzle with rust!
Successive families of spiders have come to
maturity in the breeches, using the touch-
holes as traps for unwary flies to tumble into.
The execution these pieces would do, espe-
cially among those foolish enough to fire
them, can he readily imagined. Indeed, it
has been suggested that a certain way for
enforcing discipline among the Permanent
Artillery would he to sentence mutinous
soldiers to pull the strings at the Steel Point
battery. The torpedoes, again, are given to
leaving their moorings and wandering about
Sydney harbour seeking something to destroy.
Altogether, sufficient facts have been brought
to light to show that, should European
troubles arise, and poor Australia have to
pay for her attachment to the little Atlantic
islands, the defence made by New South
Wales before delivering the key of the
Treasury to Jacques Boniiomme or Ivan
the Terrible will fairly astonish mankind.
England as a Colonising Power.
One of the hoariest fictions dear to the heart of an
inhabitant of that Empire .upon which the sun is
tired of rising is that the English are, par excel-
lence, “ the ” colonising people. It is extremely
difficult to disabuse the human mind of fallacies
coated with the fine old Conservative mildew of
ages ; as Oliver Wendell Holmes says, to “ un-
polarise ” accepted statements —that fall in par-
ticularly well with our national vanity ; but
let us lo k at the case with the eye of reason.
England has failed to “colonise” Ireland,
although she has taken several centuries to learn
the lesson of her failure. England has failed to
“colonise” India. The governing classes of
India are not colonists. The British rule in India
is thoroughly detested by the native population,
and it is only a question of time and space between
the present condition of things in the great
Southern Peninsula and a Russian annexation
thereof. England has failed to colonise the West
Indies to any great extent. The climate is against
her. The climate is against the Dutch, too, m the
East Indies ; but Englishmen never take the
climate into account when pointing to the Dutch
as failures in colonisation. The English have
really failed in colonising America. They did
certainly plant the Saxon germ of a new nation—
but it was a new nation, different altogether
in type from the Pilgrim Fathers, and more
greatly differentiated also in recent days by
German, Irish, French, Russian, and Italian
immigratory waves. The Canadians are not
English colonists. They differ more and more
from old John Bull with each year that
passes over the Dominion. The people of the
Cape are not English—they are Cosmopolite,
drawn from every quarter of the world where
adventurous spirits have pluck and lack diamonds.
The Australians are not English. In each of the
Au tralias there is a wide, unbridgeable gap be-
tween the Governor and the governed. The
ruling classes constitute a shaded fringe gradually
becoming more Australian and less English as
time rolls on. The English have utterly failed in
the great problem of colonisation the wide world
over. They lack the power to “incorporate”
what they annex. Running up the Umon Jack on
a piece of new territory does not constitute the
incorporation of a fresh bit of hitherto unclaimed
earth-crust as an “ integral part ” of the mighty
British Empire. The signs are all around us of
the failure of England as a colonising power
—that is to say if colonising means keeping,
Western Australia has sounded a note of freedom
and has received a concession ; India has been
sounding a note of freedom for years, but she has
received, as yet, no concession.' The causes are
not far to seek for this inability to grow “colo-
nies” on the part of Great Britain. In India
the English are powerless to make their influence
permanently felt, simply because the Englishman
politically and officially is a humbug. The
Roman annexed, but he extended the privileges
of Roman citizenship to those lie conquered,
Dacian Jack or Pahnyran JIMMY was as good
in the eyes of the State as Roman Tom.
If the modern Russians annexed Australia, King
Billy, of the Bogong, would be made a Colonel of
Hussars, and figure as Alexis Billykingkoff,
chief hetman of the Bogong Cossacks, The Eng-
lish do none of these things. They extend the
blessings of freetrade, free Bible, taxed rum, and
Philistine compromise wherever they go. They
preach to the heathen and—hang him. They in-
troduce simultaneously the British faith and the
British law, the missionary and the gibbet, and
the natives fall upon their neck and hate them
like poison. Everything sanctioned to the heathen
mind by the immemorial custom of centuries has
to take a back seat in the presence,of British Pod-
snappery. If the natives are weak and phthisic
they die out. If they are strong and numerous
they grumble in their little back parlours, and
wait for the “good time coming ” for freedom and
vengeance. The military notion of conquering a
country and decimating its inhabitants is at least
logical. It works well, too—for the invader.
Cromwell knew this when he went to Ireland.
To incorporate a tribe or a natiod and to give
full permission to continue the observance of
native customs and the administration of native
law is also logical. It works well for both
parties. Witness the “colonising” methods
of ancient Rome and modern Russia. To
forcibly annex and then forcibly grant any
part of the “blessed privileges” of the
“British birthright” to people who do not want
it, breeds suspicion and musket-shots. Witness
Maori wars and Indian mutinies. If the tribe
or nation is. very sickly, it gets “civilised ” off the
face of the earth, but some nations won’t be
“civilised” into eternity, and just there the
trouble begins. Where there is nothing to contend
with, England apparently succeeds. Australia Is
a case in point. The success, however, is more
apparent than real, for Australia is the land where
come England’s own discontented sons with acces-
sions from the discontented sons of other Euro-
pean nations, and the “blessings” of English
“ law and order ” are oftener regarded as curses to
new types, ever-so-many thousand miles removed
from the cradles they remember only with hatred
or scorn. In proof of her power to colonise, England
points j eeringly at Franee. Eh? Who is there to
prove that France would have failed more lament*
ably than England in the colonisation of either Ame-
rica or India ? In each country France was fought
against and driven out by force of arms, yet to
this day the Canadians have not been Anglicised
into not being the “least bit French ” in their
character ; in fact, the, French Canadians are
the most solid and progressive of all commiu
nities planted in a foreign land. India is a
terrible failure. When wo find educated
Hindoos growling fiercely at English officials,
whose wives will not receive formal visits front
coloured men of the highest mental attain-
ments and the most irreproachable character, we
can understand, a little, the feeling of hatred with
which the English are regarded in India, After
years of British occupation, a “swell” aquatic
society like the Bombay Yacht Club rigidly en-
forces a regulation which excludes every Indian
gentleman, whatever his rank, and prohibits
his admission to the club “on any pretence,”
Brahmo Chunder Sen once said, “ When Christ
steps out of trousers and shoes, India will accept
Him.” _ The same may be said of the British rule
in India. When England leaves her “society”
notions and her miserable caste prejudices in the
frigid little island in which they were nurtured to
a sickly maturity, when she accepts the Hindoo as
a social and political, as well as a Christian, “man
and brother,” she may plant her feet firmly on an
integral Indian section of the British Empire—-but
not before. When she acknowledges the right of
Australia to govern herself as she pleases, by whom
she pleases, Australia may consent to remain an
integral portion of the said wearying phrase em-
bodying an empire and a sun which won’t lie
down o’ nights, but not otherwise. We’re getting
tired of the “ blessings ” of British rule and Eng-
land’s divinely-inspired colonising instincts, and we
begin to feel, in a blind sort of way, perhaps, that
it’s about time to go a lone-hand, or else go to
sleep and let things worry out their own salvation.


An Ism that Haunts Us.
It is often said with sadness by the pos-
terity which has learned to appreciate a great man
that he lived before his time. Regret, like other
things, is capable of being served out unfairly, and
it seems to us that those who live after their time
do not receive the compassion which they merit.
For the few who have prevision of the future, and,
looking far beyond what is around them, weave
schemes that cannot be understood until new
generations have arisen, we \yeep plentifully ; for
the many who ought to have been born ages ago
and resolved into their chemical components for
conversion into forms of life more abreast of our
times, and the breath of whose nostrils is as a
wind from the catacombs of dead delusions, we
have not enough commiseration. And while the
others are few they are many. They swarm over
the whole earth, and root it up in their digging
for relics to carry in procession. They exalt battered
images, and walk backwards in the cosmic march,
with their eyes fixed on what has been and
stumble continually against what is. They do
homage to damaged divinities, and lug into the
broad daylight of the present spectres that are
“aweary of the sun,” and never should have
emerged from the darkness of their own proper
ages. “ These have power in them to rise again.”
They say, “ Here are racks and thumb-screws that
were worn by our forefathers ; here are stakes on
which men were burned. Refresh yourselves with
looking on them, and remember that if you do not
for ever stand on guard they may be used for the
same purpose on you. ” So they swagger past in
scarves and trappings, carrying banners, which run
into a good deal of money, and mean no more than
their wooden axes and lath swords mean. Instead
of bearing a hand to overcome the real obstacles
that stand in the path of human progress, they
fight the helpless dead. They are the people wdio
have been born behind their time, and they should
be pitied, not the others. But, perhaps, the reason
why they are not is that there is not pity enough
in the world to go round among them.
# # *
In London Punch Britannia was once
represented as asking Gladstone, “Is the Church
of England worth preserving, William ?” And
William, with that masterly ambiguity which
other grand old manipulators so well understand,
replied ; “It has been in a pickle for some time,
ma’am.” And that is true. In the old years
when there were Luthers and Wycliffs and
Cranmers, Protestantism had something to fight
for and men who could fight. The arrogant power
of the dominant Church of those days was worth
taking up arms against. But time and change
have done their work, and the strength of that
tyrannical ecclesiasticism to which the earlier
Protestants opposed themselves has died the death
as well as the strength of the only less tyrannical
organisation which they set up in it's place. To-day,
shorn of temporal power, and toned down all
round and amazingly modified in his pretensions,
the occupant of the throne of the Borgias receives
occasional offers from outside Powers of a bed and
a knife and fork in case he should find it ad-
visable to leave Rome. And it is written
on the wall that the day is at hand
when the Lords Spiritual who sit in England’s
Legislature and, in the name of Protestantism,
vote down human liberty and common Christianity
■will have to go. In the hearts of the people of England
there is now as fierce a resentment against the
oppression of the Protestant ecclesiastical machine
as ever existed between Orangeman and Papist.
The grinding tithe-exactions at the bottom and the
gaitered Bishops at the top : Hodge in his hovel
called upon to contribute part of the food of his
wretched children to the support of a Church
system under which Jesus of Nazareth’s followers
receive so many thousands a year for their follow-
ing, is beginning to rebel, and starved as he is
there is the strength of a Samson in that arm of
his. The Church of England is in a pickle, and in
the same jar are all the other churches which
preach God and serve Mammon.
# # #
The fact that once a year the thought
strikes a number of otherwise reasonable people
that William of Orange is of glorious and immortal
memory, and that the Protestant faith is at the
present moment in danger of falling once more
into the leprous clutches of the scarlet creature
who straddles the Seven Hills, induced us to go,
the other Sunday, to the annual Orange service at
the old Exhibition Building—in the hope of seeing
our old friend John Haynes. We had not been
inside that edifice since its memorable baptism of
loyalty one night in July, 1887, when an organised
minority, backed up by soldiers and pugilists, held
possession of it and announced their unshaken
fealty to the Queen’s throne and person. On that
night, wedged in among a seething mass of yelling
irreverence, we were borne hither and thither like
a straw on the surface of a whirlpool. Here and
there, outside the triple cordon of arm-locked
muscularity which fenced off the centre of loyalty
from the sea of vociferating protest, fights and
throttlings and death-struggles took place be-
tween the loyal and the disloyal, in the
direction of which the human tide set like
a rapid-rushing river. Then, when the com-
batants were trampled under foot or borne, froth-
ing at the mouth, helplessly far apart, the
suspicion of an assault in some other part of the
building would possess the people, and away they
would go, sweeping all before them. In one of
these rushes, when the pressure of thousands had
pinned down our arms, and squeezed the breath
out of our bruised body, we came against one John
Norton, who had his arms disengaged, and, using
the top of a diminutive Royalist's hat as a desk,
was writing a disloyal amendment on some motion
which was supposed to have been put. The
human maelstrom bore us together to a cor-
ner where a tangled mass of footballers had
Vnan on the floor who had refused to take
off his hat, and _ were threatening, as they
put it, to “kick his forehead in,” while excited
ladies leaned from the balconies, waving handker-
chiefs and cheering. “Let us up there,” we im-
plored of Millionaire Burdekin, who was in charge
of the stairway; “up there we will cheer, too.”
But he said, “No, dear boy,” and away we went
again on the grand tour. Norton got his amend-
ment written somehow, and handed it up to the
chairman, but nothing came of it. Nothing came
of anything that night. Motions were carried
unanimously that no one heard one word of, and
*y mdsor Castle rejoiced next day over a national
display of loyalty, which was all on a guarded
platform.
* * *
Wo got in by the South entrance on that
Sunday. The statue of the Queenbore a garland of
orange-leaves, and Her Majesty looked more pre-
eminent in grief than ever in consequence. Albert
Edward also bore one, but had an expression of
levity on his countenance,- not to say rakishness,
as though lie knew all about that sort of thing, and
didn’t care a hang. The statue of New South
V ales, which is not a bit like her, by the way, was
Similarly decked. The room was hung with
festoons of orange-leaves, and on the walls were
any number of cheap and execrable daubs repre-
senting William the Third on an unnaturally
short, white horse with preposterous legs,
pointing with a sword at the sky-line. Ban-
ners with the names of Enniskillen, Derry,
Aughrim and Boyne were hung out in case any-
one should forget about it. We got up close to the
platform and saw the great guns arrive. Pastor
Daniel Allen was already there. Catch him coming
late when a debauched and furtive Roman Catholic
priesthood are ready to spring at the throat of the
Reformed Church and bury their vulturine talons
in her palpitating flesh. Daniel, we noticed, is
developing a perfectly circular bald patch-
most _ suspiciously like a tonsure—at the back
of his head. Probably his right hand knows
not what his left hand does, and while in the
throes of writing those ghastly poems Avhieh set
the teeth of an outraged country on edge, he has
pulled the hair off his poetic nob. By-and-bye
the others came in and there was much osten-
tatious hand-shaking. The same old eternal crowd
—the Revs. Banner, Caldwell, Madgwick and the
rest. The hand-shaking thickened and a thrill ran
through the audience or congregation who recog-
nised in it an avowal among their brave champions
to go to the stake rather than let William the
Third suffer defeat, or see the lamb of Christianity
devoured by the Pope. And after the assembled
reverends had all shaken hands, they would at
intervals, as a kind of happy afterthought, do it
again here and there in a manner which was
visibly comforting.
* * *
Then the usual thing, hut largely diluted
with water this time. Pastor Allen prayed loud
and long in a chest voice, and made especial suppli-
cation forthewelfare of the Queen and Lord Caring-
ton. The Rev. J. Barnier’s address was mildness
itself. He was a devoted servant of the Lord,
and a political Protestant from the tip of his toes
to the roots of his hair, and they ought to never
forget that God’s hand was visible in the Siege of
Londonderry—and so on. The Rev. R. Caldwell
then took up the running, and said they must be
thankful for what they had, and watch and pray
continually. After him came the Reverend C. D.
Madgwick, who may be regarded as a revolu-
tionary Protestant, inasmuch as he revolves on his
axis about once in every sentence. Like a coast-
light broken loose, he went round and round,
sometimes addressing the chair, sometimes the
galleries, and occasionally those in the body of the
hall. The burden of his discourse was that Pro-
testantism was rapidly crushing out Catholicism,
although Cardinal Moran thought it was at its last
gasp; that the Cardinal was no better as an
authority on the matter than Mr. Deasy was on the
opening of letters, and that Father Damien might
have been a good man, but there were other good
men about, and so forth. And so forth the crowd
began to go. All the time there had been a con-
fusion of talk and a comparing of notes among
the audience, and the remarks of the speakers
were inaudible, save to those at close quarters.
Never did we see less attention devoted to public
addresses or listen to anything more stale and
stereotyped and unprofitable. The fact that there
is nothing for Orangeism to fight against in these
times is becoming too much for it. With the
death-rattle in the throat of arrogant ecclesias-
tieism all over the world, its warnings to arm and
sally forth begin to sound even in the dullest ears
somewhat ridiculous.
A Sydney daily paper attempts to account for the
numerous attempts to cheat the Customs by the
theory that Customs duties are repugnant to men’s
natural sense of justice. This is mere exalted
bunkum. The fact is that people try and cheat
the Customs by smuggling dutiable goods simply
because the game as a rule pays well, because it is
easier to rob the Government than it is to rob
private individuals, and because 99 persons out
of every 100 consider it perfectly legitimate to
“have ” the bleeding country in which they (this
is a salve to conscience) are shareholders. Almost
everybody is agin the Government, when there’s any-
thing to be made out of it. Quite a lot of things
are “repugnant ” to the natural sense of justice of
most men and women, and yet these things serve
much less rarely than Customs duties as bases for
what the law regards as robberies.
*.
Last week, in the New South Wales Assembly, a
motion was carried in the teeth of Premier Parkes
that the local police should have the franchise.
The Premier urged that he should be allowed to
deal with the whole of the franchise “in a com-
prehensive way,” but that ancient gag, ever suc-
cessful when Parkes had behind him a big pig-vote
majority, does not serve in these latter days.
Traill’s One Man One Vote motion (i.e., for the
abolition of property-voting and the institution of
pure, unadulterated manhood suffrage) will also
be forced to a division, unless Premier Parkes,
between the time at which this is written and
the time at which The Bulletin appears,
definitely promises to incorporate it in the New
South Wales electoral system—and just fancy
Treasurer M‘MillAN and the rest of the Calico
Jemmy party favouring such a thing ! In all his
life Parkes has never originated one solitary big
idea, but has appropriated many ideas belonging
to other men; he is, as a consequence, the “ father
of our noble system of State education” and a
vai'iety of other things. By and bye, if he gets
half a chance, he will figure as the Great Man who
abolished property-voting in New South Wales.
*
You can always tell when a general election is
looming up in New South Wales, for then only is
the denominational education bogey pushed to the
fore by papers which, while pretending to divide
the country on a political issue, make people light
about “religion.” One Higgins, an ecclesiastic
newly imported from the Great Beyant, has lately
been saying something about the “godlessness”
of the New South Wales public schools.
Higgins is perfectly logical, from his own
point of view. If you wish to stuff people
with dogma, you must begin when they are young,
and you must keep on doing it. You must
give it to them with every meal of learning just as
you give salt with every meal of meat. It’s of no
use leaving the matter to the clergy out of school
hours, for the clergy are an indolent lot, apart
from mere “clerical” work, and when children
have finished with one school they’re in no
humour to begin with another. Nor would it
be expedient to entrust ignorant parents, filled to
the neck of superstitions which they could not
voice, with the task of imparting dogma to their
children. The Pope’s clergy are the only ones to
keep hold of their people; and they, by the means
aforementioned, retain their grip from the cradle
to the grave. The exponents of the other current
creeds in the main have not the sense to
see this ; those who do see it, mad at
the influence of the Pope’s brigade, con-
sent to be euchred themselves for the sake of
trying to dish the Scarlet Woman. The Protes-
tant clergy and the Romanist clergy are equally
intolerant. Each of the sects would dearly love
to exercise absolute rule, but that being hopeless,
they light to destroy one another. It is well. The
spoil after the battle will go to the great and
ever-advancing Religion of Humanity.
V , ■
One Fenton worries Duncan Gillies with a
claim as discoverer of Bendigo Goldfield. He was
a rich squatter at the time. Now he’s a poor—we
don’t know what—a poor man, he who has greeted,
or repulsed, the rouseabout, bushwhacker and sun-
downer. It’s sunset. Dunky replies that really
there are so many people going about claiming to
have found Bendigo, don’t you know ? “ Oh,
but,” says Fenton, “ I’m the real Rip Van
Winkle.” We remember how Hargreaves used
to go about with his claims, never satisfied. Then
there is Esmond, the Ballarat gold-discoverer,
poor as a rat. Oh ! the curse of gold ! It was
first discovered in California on the magnificent
rancho of Augustus Sutter, Pacific Slope. He was
a millionaire, but the gold ruined him. The dig-
gers ate him out of house and home 1 ilce a horde of
locusts. They took all and paid for nothing. He
died a pauper. This example caused the Victorian
squatters to keep back the gold-discovery for a
long time. Wo are inclined to think that gold was
found in Victoria before it was in California.
About 1848 Chapman, a shepherd, fetched a
nugget into Walsh’s jewellery shop, Collins-
street. Hon. W. Campbell, of Victoria, was one
of the first squatters who knew of the payable-
gold, but kept it dark.
♦ —-—
Mrs. Harrison Lee, a young lady, writes in a
peculiar style in some Melbourne papers. She
dosed the Herald readers with some astounding
marriage views. The poor married man was to be
buckled up with fresh woes. Now she pounds
away in the Southern Cross, addressing girls
about to marry. They are to be particular in
looking out that their husbands must be able to
maintain them in a comfortable position. In
other words, they must never marry a working
man. This is always the way with your religious
newspapers. Don’t look at such people as Jesus
the Carpenter ! Isn’t it amazing how Christianity
has been turned round ? The poor man is not in
it. ‘ 1 The poor ye have always with you ” —and t hey
are a confounded nuisance, say the parsons. The
leading Baptist paper in London lately had a
letter recommending evangelical meetings for the
upper classes in evening costume !
♦
A man who had served a sentence in New South
Wales has just got 12 months’ “hard’’under the
Victorian Influx of Criminals Act for being
“illegally at large” in Victoria. And now the
New South Wales Premier promises legislation to
stop the influx of criminals from other countries.
The only life for a once-convicted criminal will
soon be either shooting a policeman and getting
hanged, or turning pirate. The Australian police-
man occupies the place once occupied in America
by the nigger-driver : hoe your row or get flogged !
Let us in future hear no more of this nonsense
about a man who has “expiated his offence”
having a chance to reform. Whatever hope
there may be for repentant sinners in the next
world, there is none in this. Look at the case
—a few years ago—of the unfortunate man who,
having served a long term for a very mild part
played by him in connection with a gang of bush-
rangers, was released from prison and took service
as a schoolmaster. Who cruelly unveiled the past
of this poor Eugene Aram to his employers, the
New South Wales Government; broke up his little
home and drove him forth like Cain with a brand
on his forehead, thus depriving him of hope, thus
showing the utter uselessness of repentance, and
making an innocent woman a sharer in sorrows
with which she was in no way identified ? Who
wantonly played the part of Houseman, the
informer? Why, the policeman, the personifica-
tion of red-tape in a blue-binding ; the sometimes
insolent and nearly always ignorant hireling who,
under the present system, is rewarded and ad-
vanced not so much for the prevention of crime as
for the manufacture of criminals.
♦-
W. G. Palmer, Sergeant-at-Arms, Victorian
Assembly, has retired exhausted, after 33 years’
toil. He got the billet as nephew of Sir J. F.
Palmer, Speaker of the original Assembly, and
afterwards President of the" Legislative Council.
Palmer’s exhaustive toil consisted in lifting the
big gilt mace off the table, and putting it on again,
when the House went in and out of Committee.
For this he got £BOO a year—£l6 a week ! How
long will the working classes and taxpayers stand
such robbery by these bloodsuckers? Jem Mace
could have done all that work with the mace and
would have been much handsomer. However, there
is a new Palmer. Young Mr. Watson has suc-
ceeded the weary and grossly-pensioned Palmer
in the work of lifting the gold crabstick up and
down. He looks as if he would be good for 33
years too. That will mean a trifle of £20,400.
Watson looks hardly strong enough for the hoist.
It would have been a suitable job for Professor
William Miller, wrestler, to round off his
autumn. A bit o’ biceps wanted, and that is all.
The job is worth about 15s. a week.
The story of a certain fracas in Collins-
street, Melbourne, the opening chapter of which
reeked with bloodshed and revenge, became such a
bad case of arrested development that it had to be
hastily wound up in a spirit of meekness, mildness
and mercy. As a thrilling narrative gone wrong,
it offers, however, opportunities for conjecture,
and possesses elements of mystery that might have
been. There was a strange sassiety interest about
the plot as it was unfolded in Melbourne City
Court, and the eager public smacked their lips in
anticipation of a yellow-backed ‘ ‘ shocker, ” with a
moving picture on the front cover. Mr. George
Jenkins, Clerk of the Legislative Assembly, Mr.
Wolfe Fink, barrister, and Dr. Lalor, of Rich-
mond, left the Athemeum Club after 12 o’clock on
Saturday night—on the calm Sabbath morning,
in fact—and hailed a cab. The counsel
for these three social luminaries, who had
the tolling of the alleged facts all to him-
self, didn’t say whether the cab was running
on the same lines as an omnibus, or was subject to
the temporary monopoly of Messrs. Jenkins and
Co. Rather an important point, because when a
fourth party named Edward Powell jumped on
to the step of the cab and said he was going their
way the distinguished trio inside said the cab was
engaged. _ Powell observed that he “ didn’t care a
——which was a decisive assertion of his inten-
tion to have Ins rights, presuming the cab was
equally at his disposal. Thereupon the distin-
guished trio “remonstrated,” and there seems to
have been something about the exalted remon-
strance which moved Powell to land the Clerk of
the Legislative Assembly a “ terrific blow” in his
official peeper. What a subject for a great his-
torical painting ! “The culprit then left,” said
counsel for the victims, so they clambered out of
the cab and went for a policeman. Dr. Lalor didn’t
exactly go for a policeman, but seems to have
stood around by himself until the first Powell,
assisted by a brother, thrashed him to such an ex-
tent that he was spitting blood all Sunday after-
noon. Ultimately a policeman took the Powells
into custody, and there you have one side of the
argument. When the counsel for Messrs. Jenkins,
Pink and Lalor had reeled off this startling state-
ment he asked their Worships to deal out the
most condign punishment they could think of to
the brothers Powell aforesaid, particularly as they
had given grief and pain “to three gentlemen oc-
cupying good positions in the city.” Prom which
we gather that the offence in punching a man’s
nose is estimated by his balance at the bank, or
the number of times he lias shaken hands
with the Governor. By the sacred memory
of Lord Beerthirst ! it must be so. Con-
dign punishment on these young Powells was
held over for three days, however, and, lo ! on the
fourth day tiny Clerk of the Legislative Assembly,
Mr. Wolfe Pink, barrister, and Dr. Lalor, of
Richmond, did not wish the “ blackguardly ruf-
fians ” of three days previous to get any condign
punishment. One of the three gentlemen had the’
faint reminiscences of a black eye, the doctor was
actually said to be in danger of losing the sight of
one eye, and Mr. Wolfe Pink was injured—in his.
feelings. But they were all moved by a sudden
desire not to prosecute the brothers Powell, who
put in a brief apology and were “ understood ” to
have compensated Dr. Lalor for his possible loss
of sight and to have done something vague
to a charitable institution. And the Beneh —how
extremely good of the dear Bench ! —consented to
a withdrawal of the charge without turning a hair.
What a travesty of justice, what an iniquitous
outrage on the law was this— if the story of Messrs.
Jenkins and Co. was unvarnished truth. Pancy
being able to blind a harmless and unprotected
doctor in this off-hand way, just for the price of
his eye ! Pancy being able to stroll promiscuously
up to a clerk of the Legislative Council and plug
his peeper gratis ! The ending of this story is too
thin. There are elements of mystery that might
have been.
Dear Bulletin, — On viewing the number of
recent theatrical benefits I cannot help asking myself—
Why are these benefits given ? I have always thought,
and I believe rightly, that a benefit was for someone in
want; how many of those who have lately received bene-
fits were in need of them? Not many weeks ago a lady
who had been in receipt of a good salary for two years, on
the eve of her departure for America had a matinee bene-
fit. Not being satisfied with one in Sydney, she took
another in Melbourne. Another lady, whose diamonds
would buy up half'the impecunious actors in the two big
cities, before she leaves for England takes a benefit. The
results in both cases are crowded houses; and why ?
Because in neither instance was the Begabit required.
But the managers give their theatres and the poor “ pros.’
have to give their services. Let any deserving actor, who
perhaps has to maintain a wife and family on hard-earned
and uncertain salary, apply to any of our managers
for the use of the theatre for a benefit, and how
many would grant his request? I am afraid not one.
When the Melbourne Bijou was burnt down many actors
and actresses lost heavily by the fire, but the only people
who gave them a benefit were the Melbourne footballers.
Nevertheless the managers get benefits to the extent of
some fourteen or fifteen hundred pounds. A deserving
actor died in Sydney, the other day, who, for a long time,
had been incapacitated through illness from following his
profession. His wife and family are left destitute, but
there is no mention of a benefit for them. No profession
in the world is more willing to assist its poorer members
than is the theatrical profession, and there are many dis-
tressing cases in Sydney to which a benefit would be a
god-send. I don’t refer to Poverty Point loafers, but to
good sterling aetdrs. If we are to give our services let it
be for a charitable object to those who are in want, and
not to those who neither need or deserve it.—Yours,
A Pro.
The fact mentioned in last week’s Bulle-
tin, that our old friend, J. R. Greville, had been
to see Irving, “but was not impressed,” will
scarcely astonish such as consider the average
actor how he grows. Generally speaking, mem-
bers of the perfeshun perceive in Irving a long,
lean stage trickster, oddly mannered in gait, pose,
voice, and delivery—one incapable of concealing
his identity, or of so playing any part that it shall
be impossible to point out blemishes in the work.
Non-professionals, also, are alive to Irving’s angu-
larities, &0., of style, and his hottest idolaters
become (although many are loth to make the ad-
mission) so irritated with their divinity that they
would fain thump him now and again, even as the
Chows are given to pound their own eternal Joss.
Nevertheless, Irving keeps his idolaters in hand,
inasmuch as he is magnetic and can, at this
moment or that, send a shock to their very
souls. Now, the average actor has no soul,
or not enough to swear by. The “character”
actor is especially free from this spiritual
complaint. Laborious cultivation of the mean
art of mimicry—in which children, up to the limit
of their physical powers, are easily made profi-
cient-dries up their souls and leaves them mere
clay machines for reproducing the sounds and
gestures they have studied unconsciously or with
business design. Take the amiable Greville as a
good average actor, certainly not a character-
actor, but one possessing individuality of an in-
ferior class. He goes to see Irving, the mag-
netism of the man cannot penetrate his stage -
tanned hide, and J.R.G. takes his departure un-
impressed. The little spark of genius escapes his
notice, and he does not help to fan it with the,
breath of his applause. If the playgoing world
consisted of Grevilles, divine, sparks would pretty
soon go out, and stage-fire would never be other
than steady burning asbestos, lighted by the gas
of mediocrity. Irving, when you come to think
of it, has held his own against profesional decry
ing and amateur ridicule for some 15 years, during
which period English taste in matters theatrical has
undergone aconsiderable variety of modification and
changes. Most of them have gone in an Irving-
esque direction, hence the “star” seems rather
less peculiar now than when “The Bells” first
rang in his fame. His influence on his contem-
poraries has asserted itself subtly and surely, until
he is now an acknowledged creed. The deeper
tones of his voice are" echoed on the Australian
stage in a most religious manner. A touching re-
minder of the strange action of Irving’s right leg
may be seen at Melbourne Royal every evening
until further notice. But only by imitation does
our average actor (who has graduated at “ home ”)
flatter the lucky man. It is worth noticing, how-
ever, that they all profess to admire his stage-
management and extravagant setting up of pieces,
and to find therein the secret of his success.
Yet, we can remember standing outside the
Lyceum for two hours, waiting for the pit
doors to open, and being eventually turned away
with hundreds more in days when Irving was not
his own manager at all. Then, again, Ellen Terry is
often referred to as the real magnetic attraction in
Irving’s show, but there was no Ellen in the com-
pany when her Henry made his name. He had to
carry a dead-weight in the shape of Isabel Bate-
man, one of the feeblest leading ladies that ever
wobbled across the boards. He had to pull
through some funereal plays, too—“ Charles 1.,”
“Eugene Aram,” “Philip,” “Yanderdecken”—
most of them heavier than workhouse puddings.
W e used to sit them out, and feel real sick for
half-an-hour at a stretch. Irving was inaudible,
irritating, and wearisome by turns. But in his
worst moments we patiently bore with him, forgot
to smile at his intermittent grotesqueness, and
waited to be impressed. The flash always came,
sooner or later, and it was worth the money when
it did come. Mr. J. R. Greville has never, never
succeeded in impressing ns to the same extent.


Building; Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans,
Intercolonial In vestment Co., Limited, 0(i Bathurst-
street, Sydney.
1 j-dy Helpers'—lncubators.
Someone has been shooting at the Em-
peror of Brazil, a rather decent and unpretentious
old gentleman as emperors go. No pressing reasons
for shooting him are apparent, so wo may assume
that his assailant is merely a Brazil “ nut,” pro-
bably cracked.
Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND °
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, See., See.,
SUITABLE FOR.
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which lie will print in any style required on Hie Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates. Jgi?" A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Street).
[?]
84(1 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, July 24, 1889.
My Dear Mooraeinda, —
The more one hears of the “burglar scare” the more
one recognises what a useful institution it is for enabling
society tabbies to dilate on the magnificence of their pos-
sessions at every opportunity. That little story, for in-
stance, which Mrs. Shandygaff, of the Point, is always
telling of herself—how she returned from a ball and care-
lessly left her diamond neeklace, worth ever so much, my
dear, on the corner of the mantel-piece, and then, awaken-
ing later on, thought it rather foolish and looked it in her
strong box the very night the nasty burglars broke in and
stole any quantity of things! Then comes a srorgeous
inventory of what the thieves might, could, would, or
should have burgled, and the company sit round gasping
at the dazzling catalogue of Mrs. S.’s “furniture and
effects.”
In a recent divorce-ease where the husband was the
plaintiff one of the reasons put forward to justify a decree
nisi was: “ defendant several times struck plaintiff a
violent blow with her bustle.” This should be a warning
to husbands to discountenance their wives making their
own frocks. In modern dressmakers’ gowns the bustle is
firmly sewn to the waistband, and a woman would have to
be very wrath indeed before she would use her whole skirt
as an aggressive weapon. Besides, you can’t hit very
hard with anything that is very heavy—at least so I’m told.
My authority is Mrs. de Stubbs, the pretty woman with
the ancient husband whom she once tried to hit with a
big water-jug.
A crowd of Sydney ’Varsity students visited the
“Yeomen of the Guard,” at Sydney Royal, on the 17th
instant, and practised their customary Vivacities, although
the proceedings weren’t quite so boisterous as they have
sometimes been. An effigy of one of the professors hung
over the stage, and during the evening the learned youths
sang a galloping chords, while one of their number con-
ducted, in a spirited manner, with a human thigh-bone !
Cheerful, wasn’t it ? But why don’t they give us some-
thing original ? I am afraid their stereotyped gaiety is
only make-believe, after all.
Here is a pathetic appeal from a Sydney daily paper
YOUNG gentleman, limited means, wishes to receive
x Tenders for extraction G teeth. S.A., Ashfield.
He ought to go and board somewhere where they have
“tender” steak for breakfast; or, perhaps, better still,
some of the medical students, who have nothing
better to do than flourish human bones at the theatre,
may take pity on him.
When will tales of the perfidy of the O’Rorke cease to
reach me ? From Victoria I hear of a large, muscular
cook in a rather large household who arrogated to herself
sole authority in tlie kitchen. One of her mistresses in-
terfered too often in her dominion, and Bridget, with a
loud appeal to the “ howly mither o’ Moses,” took her by
the shoulders and actually ran her out of the kitchen !
Her soi-dimnt mistress could not keep her temper under
such conditions, and seizing a crumb-brush commenced
to belabour her handmaid, when Bridget wrenched the
weapon from her, laid her across her knee and chastised
her in the good old grandmotherly way with the handle !
Seeing that she had made a mistake, the O’Rorke hit her-
self on the nose till that celestially tilted organ bled
copiously, and then rushed to the nearest police-station
and took out a summons against her mistress for assault!
As the lady could not, for obvious reasons, state her ease
in court, she was fined, to the infinite “divarshun” of
Miss O'Rorke.
Don’t you think it’s a very suspicious circumstance that
many of our “helps” “just out’.’ from England have
such closely-cropped hair? “ Just out” is susceptible to
so many interpretations 1
A well-known man just now under a financial cloud is
the direct heir to large estates in England. His friends
here constant’y urge him to return and claim his own, but
he refuses for somewhat romantic reasons. In early life
he married a buxom specimen of the shandygaff profes-
sion of whom he still continues fond, and so long as she
lives he will make no attempt to recover his own, for the
truly Vere de Vere reason that “ he could not put her in
his mother’s place.” Reads like a novel, doesn’t it ? But
it has this advantage over a novel—that it is most uncom-
monly true !
Do you wish to emulate Mrs. Brown-Potter? It’s the
cheapest and easiest thing possible. Buy a packet of
orris-root and distribute it amongst your underclothing,
your laces, your gowns, your hose if you like, and you will
be a walking violet-bed. If you wish your hair also to be
perfumed, just place a piece of orris-root under the dress-
ing on top, and the result will be exceedingly sweet.
It is now the fashion for smart Sydney society women to
write to the managers of skating-rinks, and so on, asking
for gratis season tickets, in consideration of inducing gilt-
edged people to become patrons of the shows.
Mrs. Garrett’s concert, in her ball-room, on the 17th
lust., in aid of the Ashfield Infants’ Home, resulted in a
very good attendance, as the thing had been indefatigably
pushed by the promoters. The concert—which, I confess,
was not the r. r/ best I have sat at—terminated at quite
an early hour, when most of tlie guests remained to a
dance, which brought the affair to a very pleasant con-
clusion.
I read that the St. Petersburg women are in a flutter of
admiration over three dressing-gowns, destined for
royalty, now being exhibited in the maker’s show-room.
They are all in fur. One is made of white silver fox,
trimmed with a wide border of real gold thread. The
second is of sable, and fastened in front with six clasps
composed of real pearls, which are said to be strikingly
effective among the costly fur. But the most gorgeous of
the three gowns, all of which seem to have been made
after patterns taken from fairy tales', is that which is made
of the fur of the so-called “ blue ” fox, and has, as its only
ornament, a belt made entirely of diamonds. I wonder
what the wearer of all this magnificence would call the
bright pink-flannel-button-holed -in - white- abominations
Vi Inch one sees by dozens on suburban balconies —always
with a curl-paper accompaniment ?
The Rover Cricket Club dance at West’s rooms on the
18th was very well attended altho’ the weather was ex-
ceedingly miserable. A pretty dress was of white moire
and Brussels net, and a salmon-pink Liberty silk with
Plantaganet sleeves lined with eau-de-nil was also rather
nice.
Your Sappho has been smiling sweetly over an account
of a little meeting held in Mayor Benjamin’s “ room” at
Melbourne Town Hall last week. The meeting was a most
superior affair, convened by private circular “ for the pur-
pose of initiating a scheme to present Lady Loch with a
souvenir ” ere she departs for the Cape. The usual set
attended, and Lady Benjamin came to the front with a
resolution testifying to the beneficial influence exercised
by dear Lady Loch on the moved, educational, and
artistic tastes of the community, from which I gather
that she is supposed to have toned the giddiness of
Toorak by some mysterious process. It is funny, too, to
find such a florid personage as the Mayoress posing as an
authority on “ artistic tastes.” One good turn deserves
another, however, and no one finds fault with the Ben-
jamins for working up this souvenir. Sir Henry Loch
recommended Benny as a good “mark” for a title, and
common gratitude demands that Benny’s wife shall do a
little for Loch’s wife. The introduction of the word
“ community ” into this affair is where the joke pops up,
I think.
The other day I stumbled across an advertisement in a
Melbourne paper announcing that Lord Charles Fitzgerald
was extremely satisfied with the way in which a certain
van-proprietor had removed his furniture. Lords must be
getting quite cheap and plentiful in our midst, for I can’t
call this one to mind—never heard of him. in fact. I
wonder if he gave that lordly testimonial in settlement of
the “moving” account.
Here is another item of fashionable intelligence from
Melbourne which almost makes me weep for joy. Mr.
William Irving Winter, M.L.C., has changed his name to
W. J. Winter-living, by Royal Letters Patent, and some-
body in the Herald office has written to congratulate him.
This flunkey-minded official said; “ The step you are
about to take in applying to Her Majesty for permission
to take the additional surname of Irving must be to all
persons versed in genealogy and family history a judicious
one.” Of course you know that Letters Patent are—in
the language of TOm—“all my eye.” Anyone can assume
what surname he chooses, and only needs to advertise the
change, just as business people advertise changes in the
style of their firms. And if Mr. Winter’s claim to a cer-
tain Irving coat-of-arms was his “ birthright through his
mother,” as the Herald office individual,explains, all Mr.
Winter had to do was to stick the precious coat-of-arms
about his premises and pay the fee. All this fal-de-ral evi-
dently pleases the M.L.C. involv ed, but he might have got
there just the same without it. Talking of genealogy, 1
am told that there is in The Bulletin office a gentleman
whose grandmother holds a piece of land in the New
Forest, Hampshire, under the royal seal of King Henry
the First. The bid lady is lineally descended from the
charcoal-burner who picked up the body of William Rufus
and carted it home, the land aforesaid being granted by
Henry for services rendered to the late King. And now
this Bulletin descendant of the charcoal-burner says that
kings are a blot on civilisation, and he would be glad to
cart home all their dead bodies for nothing at all. I call
that unkind.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The Duke of Portland settled on his bride
the £50,000 lie won by Donovan’s Derby victory.
The latest murder committed by “ Jack
the Ripper” tends to bolster up the theory so
ingeniously advanced a little while ago by “ Ivo ”
in the Bulletin that “Jack” is a policeman.
Active search for wreckage on the coast as
a result of the recent heavy weather, has brought
peace .and contentment to the finders of Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine washed ashore among the dchris.
Proprietor Evans’ latest venture, addled
in Sydney Sunday Times office, was, judging
from its first few paragraphs, evolved from and lay
a very evil-smelling egg. It’s an ill bird that fouls
its own nest.
A London writer relates that the Prince
of Wales occasionally addresses to his wooden-
headed son and heir the injunction ; “ Now, my
noble Roman, wake up.” At other times he will
accost him with “ Hilloa, last of the Kings of
England.” “ There’s many a true word,” &c.
We have to acknowledge receipt of Adam
Bede’s list of prize-winners in his consultation on
the July Handicap. The first prize, which
amounts to some £3OO, went to Lower Bnrdekin,
Townsville (Q.); the second went to Dunlop
station, Bourke (N.S.W.) ; and the third to a
young lady resident of Auckland (N.Z.). The
number of investors for Adam Bede’s consulta-
tions is steadily but surely increasing.
A cablegram in Sydney Evening News
states that “the Linotype type-setting machine,
now on exhibition in London, is a mechanical
triumph and saves 300 per cent, in the cost of
composition.” If this is so, then Alfred Bennett,
instead of having to pay his wicked, discontented
compositors a shilling a thousand for setting type,
will be able to get them to pay him three shillings
a thousand for the privilege of setting up nasty
paragraphs agin the poor old Pope.
Kapunda Herald (S.A.) relates how a
Miss Mary Brown went out for some cows, and,
failing to return, was reported to the police as
missing. When she did turn up it was with a
yarn that “ she had been chased by a swagman,
who had refused to allow her to return home. He
had detained her for a considerable time, but she
could not identify him !” Some day, when Mary
comes along to Sydney and learns the art of iden-
tification from the police, there will be a man
hanging at the end of a rope somewhere.
There has been a terrific flare-up in the
Parkes Cabinet over the Premier’s opposition to
the scheme of taking over portion of Hyde Park,
Sydney, for the purposes of a railway-station.
Parkes is said to have told his colleagues that,
though they owed office to him, and to him alone,
they had taken every possible occasion to insult
him, publicly and privately; he declared that
neither they nor any other person nor body should
ever be the means of diverting one single square-
inch of the park from its present uses. The
Bulletin predicts that, in tlie long run, the pro-
posal to knock a hole in Sydney’s most valuable
reserve will be barred by the force of public
opinion acting in the teeth of the combined influ-
ence of officialism and landed interest.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ G.R.M.” (E. Melb.) : Hope to deal with it for
next issue,,.. “Schoolboy ” (Mudgee); The Bulletin
stole it from Life-—and acknowledged it. You stole it,
altered it—and didn’t acknowledge it. We don’t go to
Mudgee for inspiration ...“Fred. C. C.” (Old Bendi-
gonian): Thanks for letter....“ W.0.L.” (Cooma): You
can’t expect literal accuracy from a reporter who is not a
shoithand-writer.... “ R.R.” : All the thousand and one
Stephens are related, but none of them are martyrs nowa-
days “ A.E.” ; The necessity is shown by the fact that
some of the Melbourne Building Societies are quaky
over the land-boom and can’t pay up... “A. M'Cutcheon ”:
Victoria pays its Upper as well as its Lower House
“Mag Rel” (Collingwood) : Many thanks “Jerry”
Will let you know anon.... “ Tas.”: The return of a man
from gaol to the bosom of his friends may be a somewhat
inauspicious occasion from an outside point of view
whereon to grant him a demonstrative public welcome.
Nevertheless, it would be a good thing if every man whom
prison-life has not made into an utter savage had some-
one to take him by the hand when he came out and let
him see that there was still a chance for him, and that he
did not stand utterly alone in the world. If 80 or 90 in-
habitants of Campbelltown are not ashamed to openly
welcome their friend on his return from gaol—well,
there must be some good in that friend or else
the community must be a darned bad lot
“L.A.” : The reason they only publish Scotch poetry is
that one of their editors is a Scotchman “ R.D.D.” :
Charming.", Fred, S.” : Too Pedlingtonian an affair
to worry about “K.0.D.”: Excellent letter....
“ L.L.A.” ; The story of police administration in Ireland,
if told impartially, would fully justify the allegation that
tlie police are capable of hanging innocent men. Many of
, the Irish are admittedly capable of shooting landlords
from behind a hedge. Put the Irish “criminal” into
a uniform, make him a policeman, and he leaves off shoot-
ing; landlords to shoot tenants with bullets of perjury.
The leopard doesn’t change its spots. The present
rule is a demoralising rule—both to the authorities and to
the people at large.... “ P.O’C.” : The sense is better than
the sketch, and you forgot to send along the joke
“ Jerry ” : Drop in and see us. Have they ever been pub-
lished before ?.... “ Walter Brown ”; Dr. Bowker, M.L.C.,
in opposing the N.S.W. Payment of Members Bill, com-
pletely “gave away” the enemies of the measure by
saying that the present system of non-payment “was the
only check( on manhood suffrage.” There is the w hole
case in two or three lines. Your column and a-half proves
nothing.... “ W.H.8.” : Your best ground is that selection
of Governors will educate for future selection of Presi-
dents. ... “A Sufferer ” ; It doesn’t follow that because one
totalis^tor-bdss runs his machine foully that the totali-
sator system is a failure as opposed to the bookmaker.
Our views on the question will be fully stated....
“Cargo” : N.S.W. is not so much in need of British pro-
tection as she is of a deliverance from British free-trade.
“Thinker ” : 1. The parallax varies with the altitude,
but atmospheric effects on telescopic vision can only be
estimated by referring to the brand on the last bottle. 2.
Byron noticed the same peculiarity. Perhaps the coast-
line of Wollongong resembles that part of Greece
“ J.H.” (Armidale): Thanks for letter, but there is little
left to say on the subject that has hot already appeared in
The Bulletin “H. Miers ” (Fitzroy): Many papers are
conducted on precisely similar lines'... “ Prank Chandos ”:
Wants jack-planing.H.J.J,” (qt.) ; The story, as
related by you, is of no general public interest. Send us
something lively. ..“L.E.A.”; She threatens you with a
breaoh-of-promise action, does she? Well, the Bis-
marckian style in which to deal with her is to bring it out
in Court somehow or other that she has a complete upper
and lower set of false teeth “E. Marsland ”: Mr.
Neville Griffiths should have known that Sir John Robert-
son, like the clever hotel-bar cockatoo, is privileged to
say anything.H. J. Mac.”-: Too wire-drawn a joke.
Why don’t you send something more direct “ C.AAV.”:
Please call “A.G.D,” (Newtown): Thanks for clippings.
The Bulletin has always opposed the introduction of alien
labour under contract “Dutchman” (Bathurst): (1)
Angus and Robertson, Market-street, Sydney, can supply
you. (2) Nine shillings per annum. <3) Isaac Pitman,
Bath, England, is the. editor. (4) There is a list of names
of members in the Journal “Flathead”: (1) Any
body of men can establish a bank of issue, provided they
register themselves in accordance with “the Companies
Acts.” (2) It is purely a matter of the public giving them
credit. The liability of hank shareholders is not limited
with respect to notes. (3) The mint is merely a con-
venience for coining and seeing to the quality of coin
current. (4) Banks act on prudential principles, a sort of
unwritten law of averages governing their dealings with
their reserves. This v aries in different countries according
to their circumstances. Robarteslays it down as an axiom
that banks ought to hold in gold one third or 33( per cent, of
the amount of their circulation and “ call ” deposits, and
we fancy that in Australia the banks generally hold more
than this in gold. This law of average necessity seems to
have worked well and to have met all commercial require-
ments. Your reading of the statistical reports we do not
understand. (£>.) No Government could raise by taxation
in one year what is wanted for great works ; taxation
comes in afterwards and pays it off by degrees.
(6.) The Government can create money-the mere issue
of debentures means a deferred debt, and if you issue
those on demand and cannot pay for them "in gold
your paper-money depreciates by just the length of
time you cannot pay it. (7.) A surplus in a
yearly revenue should go not to make works of
a permanent character (which are paid for by a loan
prepaid by instalments representing tear and wear
from year to year), but to reduce or relieve taxation in
some shape or another. In fact, the surplus revenue
might be looked upon as a sort of over-charge to be re-
funded as soon as possible. Gold is valueless in itself. You
cannot eat it ;it will not clothe you. It is a mere matter
of convenience representing (from a common standpoint)
the value of anything. Gold—standard gold—has to meet
a fixed value. All gold is not of the same quality, and
hence it rises and falls. Then gold may be scarce at one
place and plentiful at another. It would take a long while
to explain all you ask.. ..“Felix Aust.” ; How is it that
your productions are so uneven? “Jane” is a clever
thing. Tlie “ Marble Man ”is even below mediocrity...,
“L. 8.”: Not suitable; try again “D. G. McD.” :
Consult Gazette at Public Library.... “ A.M.” : Why, the
mine was floated—in Australia—for a million, and now
the experts say it is not very much more auriferous than
sea-water.. “C. J.P.” : Will hold over.. “C.C.”: Next week.
.J. T. B. Dines” (Auckland, N.Z.): You vvantus to open
the columns of The Bulletin to the “ Great Planetary
Discussion.” You say you defy us to prove that the earth
is a globe ; and you are prepared to show that it isn’t
anything of the kind. We may state that since writing
the flippant article of which you, the “leader of the
Planet Expedition,” complain,” we have seen the error of
our ways and have become thoroughly convinced that the
earth is square. It is ever so much easier to believe that
the earth is square than to find room in The Bulletin to
print side after side of cranky foolscap. (Numerous
1 ( tors held over).
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal, “ Yeoman of the Guard.”
Her Majesty’s .. “Confusion.”
Opera House “ Martha.”
Criterion “ Joseph’s Sweetheart.”
Academy of Music European Celebrities.
Waxworks “Jo-Jo.”
Metropolitan Skating Rink Ultimo.
Eute Skating Rink Redfern.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal .... “ Bells of 1 lasltmerc:”
Opera House Silbon-Stirks.
Princess’ “ The Grasshopper.”
Alexandra “ East Lynne.”
St. George’s Hall Harry Rickards’ Company.
Waxworks Indian Performers.
In the scattered intervals of sunshine,
Sydney has been given over to .To-Jo. Posters,
snipes, dodgers and adhesive labels singing the
song. J o-Jo is about to arrive in Sydney. Jo-.To,
the dog-faced Russian boy. Jo-Jo, protected by
the Czar and beloved by ladies ; aged 19, speaks
well in two languages, indifferently well in a third,
and makes love in a doggy sort of way in all
four. Providence supplied Jo-Jo in the very nick
of time to fill the gap caused in Barnitm’s receipts
by the death of J umbo, and Frank Clark borrowed
him from Barnum to show Australia the results of
Freetrade in Russia. Jo-Jo gets the same screw as
Baron Carington, and, if he were an Englishman,
might, some day, be a governor himself. He travels
under the care of a Russian official, who pays the
Russian Government a large sum annually for the
privilege of exhibiting him. He has been at every
European Court, and through the United States,
breeding trouble and dissension in families,
grievous assaults among scientists, and disruption
in the churches. He is believed to bean emissary
of the Imperial Federation League.
-#- #
Profound misery is born of the comparison
between the tyi’ant Fashion of to-day and the
got-’em-all-on garb in which our forefathers
cavorted through space when Joseph Andrews was
a east-iron model of what an engaged young man
ought to be, and my Lady Booby let go her hold
of everything a real colonial lady always sticks to
rather than chip splinters off a commandment.
Gipsy Jim is the worst spot of wickedness in the
crowd—he is short of buttons where they are most
wanted, and has no Sunday-school precepts to stiffen
him in the presence of a lord. Save Parson Adams
and Fanny, the whole show is on the tiles of
iniquity ; and Fellamar, who is a lord, and ought
to be a gentleman, goes straight back on his pal,
Lady Booby, when her ladyship is morally up a
tree, and all the fight is taken out of him by the
refrigerated Joseph, whose strawberry-mark—dis-
covered by Jim—has enabled him to climb into a
new suit of blue velvet reach-me-downs, and as
much of the family pride as they will hold at the
same time. Nineteenth century rectitude makes
an art-study of the profligacy of its progenitors,
and the legend of “ Standing-room Only ” is per-
manently nailed to the Criterion door.
** * *
Gilbert and Sullivan’s latest goes merrily
booming along at the Sydney Royal, and the
various opinions expressed as to its merits in-
crease in variety nightly. The trumvirate have
imported a new pnma donna—which her name
is Clara Merivale of high repute, and the local
D.T. has handed her to posterity in a scratcho-
muddograph by a new process that a life-time
of sweet song will scarce neutralise. “ Pepita ”is
announced to follow “The Yeomen of the Guard;”
some imbecile females of more or less notoriety
have been at the same game from the date of the
institution —which is one of the chief attractions
possessed by that branch of the service over all
others for the flat-roofed, flap-eared heirs of
Mammon whose superfluity of cash and paucity of
brain meet the standard tests of admirers.
** * *
The leggings, feathers and moral obliquity
out of which Don Jose de San ter em is built nightly
lure-the ambitious gipsy to the verge of a faux pas
with the funereal monarch of Spain at the Opera
House. More of Maritana and less of Miss
Tree is now visible in the first act, a successful
operation having been performed on her skirts, to
her own great glory and the pronounced satisfac-
tion of the peeled heads in the stalls. The
solemnity of the “ Angelas ” in the market-place is
much discounted by a life-size portrait of Parkes
which out door exposure has not yet deprived of
that air of rakish deviltry so many scantily-clad
worshippers would be apt to provoke. No ex-
planation as to his presence in the Spanish capital
is offered, and the portrait is supposed to be con-
nected with some as yet unrevealed incident which
forms no part of his historic career. “Legitimate
English opera,” combined with all the social ad-
vantages and physical charms of the d.c. at three
shillings per head has kept a bursting strain on
the York-street mausoleum all the time.
“ Martha ” will replace it on Saturday with Lillian
Tree in the name part, and the shapely scarlet
continuations of Lazarillo hidden under tlie modest
and more modern upholstery of Nancy.
* iK- * *
Frank Clark’s European Celebrities ai’e
reviving the memory of old times in the Academy
of lost glories. Strict attention to the programme,
and an earnest desire to be happy, facilitates the
drafting of the serio-comic from the merely origi-
nal, and the new specialities from the old
ones. “ Good old Mary Ann ” has gone,
for which the saints might be praised if the
vacancy were filled with anything less inane than
“Come Down and Open the Door,” or “ Drink.”
Amy Rowe has her double-barrelled vocaliser in
good order, and a cheery-looking youngster does
double somersaults better than any performer out-
side the precincts of the L.A.
* * -;i:- m
Exit “In the Ranks ” from Her Majesty’s
until the Sydney public once more yearns for Ned
Drayton’s example of colossal forbearance as a


Good news from Wagga. By getting h
reputation as a drunkard you can get struck" off
the jury-list.
It is now explained that the man charged
with insulting a Melbourne policeman by taking
his number, “took the number of his bouts.”
Christian soldier in affliction, to make room
for “Confusion,” a comedy with a 500-mghts
record in London. Beautiful George will be
presented under entirely novel conditions, and
Kate Bishop in a character she has already
adorned for the 500 nights aforesaid. _ In the
Banks ” will scarcely be produced again this side
of Christmas, George having been bound over to
keep the piece himself pending a general demand
for its restoration.
* -& * *
In the absence of comedy, comic opera, or
intelligent drama from their germful city, the
show-goers of Melbourne are groaning aloud for
more sweetness and light. With the solitary
exception of “Jo”—which is, after all, only a
faithful study of an unwashed boy circulating at
random among a number of irresponsible sugges-
tions of Dickens’ characters—nothing appeals to
the local brain more than the Silbon-Stirk enter-
tainment, and business is flourishing at the Opera
House. Apart from the bicycle novelty, there are
strong grounds for suspicion that the old combina-
tion is slightly better than before, the incidental
singing of Miss Salinger having improved in the
meantime, while even the two clowns contrive to
be always bright and fresh as clowns go. Fifteen
other reasons why the whole affair is a solid suc-
cess have been mentioned at sundry times, and the
effect of these ascertained causes may be discovered
in the fact that Mr. Walter Silbon will continue
to make two distinct revolutions in the air for
several weeks to come.
*& * *
“Bolls of Haslemere,” at the Royal, is
running through a fourth week, although the
public are slowly and stealthily tumbling to the
conclusion that it is a piece of resplendent lunacy
and costly tommy-rot. People are beginning to
ask why the elegant Mr. Sass should die from a
bullet-wound in Ins undisciplined heart at the end
of one act, in order to turn up again, with his arm
in a sling, at the end of the next. Unless he wore
Ids heart upon his sleeve, a thing one sometimes
reads about, there is no accounting for this
mystery, and he might just as well return on two
wooden legs after being poisoned.
-;•} -;i:- -*-
“ The Unknown,” shocking particulars of
which crime were published in last issue, is pro-
ducing a strange sense of something wanting in
the interior of the Alexandra, so on Saturday Mr.
Dampier proposes to let “ East Lynne ” loose upon
a weeping world, with Miss Lily as the mono-
tonous female, who is reduced to gazing at her
cheeild through green spectacles and hiding her
wearisome shame behind a false front. Mr.
Dampier’s Version of this fusty, unhealthy narra-
tive is stated to be licensed by the Lord Cham-
berlain, and this circumstance makes it more than
over evident that the exalted official afore aid
ought to be boiled down. Also, on Saturday, Miss
Jennie Lee will revive “The Grasshopper” at the
Princess’s.
* * * -13
A Diorama of Scotland, assisted by sacks
of coal and other deeds of charity, didn’t have a
very profitable first week at the Victoria Hall, but
on Monday last proceedings were to be shoved
along by the distinguised patronage of someone
named Nicholson, who appears to be a baronet in
his own country. If the patronage of Nicholson
doesn’t shed a refining influence over the Diorama
of Scotland, it ought to. Anyhow, it was worry
good of him to go, it was, and The Buu.etin hopes
his gracious condescension was rewarded with a
sack of coals.
>r»
Harry Rickards’ little festival at St.
George’s Hall is blazing away, without the assist-
ance of coals, and an unavoidable announcement of
“last nights ” is the source of widespread suffering
and distress. D’Arcy Read’s Ghost has popped
up at the Hibernian Hall, after a long absence,
this spectral visitation commencing last Monday.
The Lynch Bellringers are also wandering around
Melbourne with pleasing results ; and the time-
honoured Waxworks has developed into a Royal
Museum for wild Indians, lovely queens, and
other freaks of nature. Of these phenomena a
notice anon. Meantime the management adver-
tises that two Monkey Boys are “aliving testi-
mony of Darwin’s theory,” and that “they are
very affectionate, but quite docile.” The
advertisement is quite a freak of nature itself.
Cheery little Miss Emma Chambers, who has been
a gleam of sunshine on the Australian stage for
five years past, is about to conduct a company over
to South Africa, where the Zulus will certainly eat
such a plump and pleasing morsel if they get half
a show. Next Saturday afternoon (27th) Miss
Chambers will take a grateful farewell of her
friends amidst the tender associat ions of a benefit at
Melbourne Royal. A big performance is pro-
mised, and this thorough little artiste is safe to
get a hearty send-off upon her new enterprise.
The “Battle of Waterloo” Cyclorama has proved
such an unexpected boom that the managers are
making a vigorous attempt to convert it into a
limited liability company. Receipts, up to the
present, seem to be averaging something like £BO
a day, and at that rate it is quite possible that the
Cyclorama will be able to hold > out from genera-
tion to generation, and pay dividends to the crack
of Doom.
lif -:i:- -1?
The Brough-Boucicault’s opened at the
Adelaide Royal in “ The Squire,” but the business
has been wretchedly bad. Miss Fannie Enson
made her first appearance in Australia. She is
natural, graceful, and of pleasing manners,
and is said to resemble Mrs. Kendal. Bouci-
cault, Anson, Titheradge, and Misses Pattie
Brown and Harwood were included in the
cast. “Sophia,” which follows, is expected
to brighten things up a bit. At Garner’s Theatre
iommy Hudson booms along, while the Town
Hall receives a long daily list of visitors to Jo-Jo,
Uuzie and other oddities. Jensen’s Cabalistic
Wonders are announced.
«- *
A hat that will shut up has been invented
for ladies’ wear at theatres. It is a relief to have
something about the ladies that will shut up at
the theatres,
Creswick’s autobiography interests Sydney
and Melbourne people, but the editor writes some
nonsense about Creswick having introduced here a
love of the legitimate. He succeeded most
because he revived the. memory of G. V. Brooke
and Barry Sulli van. Sullivan’s brilliant manage-
ment of the Melbourne Royal can never be for-
gotttn. Of course, David Buchanan’s gush over
Creswick is reproduced. David went quite
“ balmy. ’ When Creswick arrived in Melbourne,
Harwood declared he was too old. Coppin thought
so, too. Creswick had all but taken his passage
back to London, when G. B, W. Lewis offered
him 12 nights at the Bijou. Terms, share aft< r
£5O, but the houses then had been below £."O
regularly. Creswick made such a hit in “ Vir-
ginius ” that Lewis told him to stop as long as ho
liked. _ In Sydney his success was still greater.
Oreswick came to Melbourne without any engage-
ment, and was very down-hearted.
* *
At latest dates a company engaged to play
“ The Balloon ” through the English provincial
towns were to advertise the show by travelling per
real balloon from place to place. Are you listen-
ing, Bland Holt ?
* * * fK-
The French Army officials have retained
a Belgian circus-rider to teach their cavalry a
systein by which horses may learn cavalry move-
ments in an unusually short time. The army is
said to be much wounded in its feelings by
being thus placed under the tuition of a common
“ sawdust ” person. They reverse the process in
Australia, where the Government loan out sections
of the army to prance round the stage for Bland
Holt. A super called in at The Bulletin office
the other day and complained that he had been
thrown out of work because the privates of the
N.S.W. Permanent Artillery had taken to the
stage in their “off-time.”
» * *- *
In the pocket of a drowned Melbourne
actor was found a scrap of paper on which was
inscribed these words in pencil : “ Epitaph for my
wife—a virtuous woman, but a better aunt and
sister than a wife. ”
It is cabled that the Earl of Hopetoun, a
29-year-old Tory Nobody, has been appointed to
succeed Governor Loch in Victoria. Why not
give Dnnlo the billet ? He is already on the way
out, and the Viscountess could follow with the
Alhambra Johnnies.
“What kept you so late at the office?”
“ Oh, I had to write a leader on this Dam burst in
America.” “Seems to me you’re always on the
PHOTO. BY A. BASSANO, LONDON
VISCOUNTESS DUNLO (MISS BELLE BILTON).
Dam burst.” We print this second-hand joke
purely to amuse Pastor Cockleton, who hails from
Ulster via the afflicted Yankee district.
“ The first time the Prince of Wales went
to Paris Exhibition he was greatly annoyed at
noticing that the Victorians had used the words
‘ Royal Commission ’ over the entrance to their
court. He marked his sense of their conduct by
just walking a few steps inside their court, and
then walking out again.” Thus dies the Vic-
torian nation in one act.
Time 11.10 p.m v It was a zinc-lined pine-
case rather larger than the average dirt-box, and
it stood on the extreme edge of the kerb, partially
overhanging the rippling gutter, and contributing
largely to the fever germs and smells of the night.
Two elegant mashers of the Primrose League
variety bear down upon it in the semi-darkness
born of Sydney Corporation economy. And in re-
sponse to the challenge of his friend one of them
performs the gallant feat of capsizing the box. A
peal of joyous laughter is broken short in the middle
by the iron grip of authority : “Pwhat did yer do
that fur? Share the box wasn’t harmin’ye, hut
yez’ll maybe ho able to tell the magisthrate in the
mornin’, an’ its my duty to tell yez that anythin’
ye say will be taken down and used agin’ ye at the
thrial.” It took quite ten minutes and a collection
to obtain their release, and then only on condition
that the box was restored to its place and
the dirt put back in it. And, begorra, he
made them do it, too, good man ; and
their elegant kid gloves topped up the sacri-
fice in harmony with a partially-decomposed
rat which had been the first item deposited in the
box by its owner. And they missed the last
Manly boat and got home after the milk, with a
transparent explanatory lie; and their appetites
are ruined, and the scent of the garbage and the
dead rat cling to them like Parkes does to h V
office, and the sight of a dirt-box is as painful as
the breath of an onion to the bride of yesterday.
At Poverty Point.
Remenyi fiddling away at the Cape, and the newspaper
man bitterly lamenting the want of appreciation for ms
classical performances says: “ There is no country in the
world that has, for its population, as many pianos as
South Africa, and, forsooth, so little musical talent.
The time-payment man again, of course. The ruin or
domestic peace and the desolation of many homes maik
his track through this world of misery.
W. A. Robins, the flaxen-haired fiddler who came to
Australia in the train of “Ruth” Cowen, has jcmicn
W.G. and M. As a conductor his manner lias not that
repose which marks the caste of Cowen and Soherek ; but
his style has this compensating advantage that a man can
get right in the front row of the orchestra-stalls without a
farthing of insurance on his nose.
John Hennings is painting scenery again, at the Mel-
bourne Alexandra. Hooray !
Three new theatres on the board in Melbourne. Bijou,
Pitt’s, and Riokards’s.
Miss Finkelstein has been fired out of a buggy driven by
a Miss Young at Bundaberg. No damage done beyond the
power of arnica to cure, and no missing date in the lady’s
deposit receipts. What a thump she must have given the
earth!
There is a rumour that Mr. Sala, of Cow Flat, knows
where there is a petrified woman. He is understood also
to assert that he knows where there is a petrified child.
He has evidently struck the whole family.
What! Jimmy Moore left the Melbourne Theatre Royal!
Whoever takes charge of the black bag with the Saturday
night takings, which Jimmy used to lump down on the
bank-counter ? Can we guess what he quarrelled with his
brother-in-law, Williamson, about ?
Every actor religiously carries his hat at an angle on his
head. Here is the correct scale of degrees: If you see a
pro. go over or under it, you have a right to tap his hat
with your stick, and get hit in the eye. The Leading
Man’s hat inclines only 5 degrees ; Heavy Man’s hat, shiny
belltopper, 10 degrees ; Light Comedy, 15 degrees ; First
Low Comedy, 20 degrees ; Song-and-Dance Man (English),
25 degrees; do do, Amurrican, 30 degrees; Acrobat, not
to exceed 10 degrees ; Clown (just got engagement for the
Christmas pantomime), 45 degrees. Others hang their
hats on their ears, if large enough.
A Mr. Garraway, described as an Australian dramatist,
of the “loyal” persuasion—who is Garraway?—has
written a play—“ The Girl Queen”—which the Lord
Chamberlain hesitates to license. “The Girl Queen”
throws the mantle of romance over the prosaic diplomacy
which married Her Gracious to the costly Albert, and
introduces “dear Mamma,” Baron Stockmar, the Duke of
Wellington, and Lord Melbourne to show' how it was
“faked.” The play is too prematurely previous.
Thirty years ago the foundations were laid, in Smith-
street, Collingwood (Melb.), of a suburban theatre, but
they were built over with shops, now very ramshackle.
The scheme is revived for a theatre there.
Now' Santley has sung at St. Mary’s Cathedral (Sydney)
and gone down the harbour with a lot of dark-frocked
clerics, rejoicing in highly-Hibernian surnames, we sup-
pose that, on his return, the Nooze will denounce his
concerts as—more Popery than moosical!
Tummy says : “ I can sit and smoke and enjoy myself at
the Alhambra ; that’s why I like it better than" the legiti-
mate drama.” An example of candour to the parsons who
go for one reason only—to get material for a moral homily
about Magdalen founded on fact.
Manager Allison received a cablegram from Chicago
last week, sent by his agent Gaylord, and informing him
of the engagement of Buffalo Bill’s show, which will shortly
leave for Australia.
Iliscocks has been laid up in Melbourne during last
W'eek.
Mushroom-managers have been rife up-country in all
the colonies—particularly N.S.W.—of late, and some of
the poor “pros” have had to walk all the way back in
consequence.
Miss Marie Brooke will shortly join Mr. John Solomon’s
opera company.
Australian managers are exercised in their minds con-
cerning novel productions. They have educated their
public to such an extent that it has become a difficult
matter to exceed former experiences.
Australian professionals of all grades, who are crowded
out, might, we hear, do worse than try their luck in South
Africa.
The Triumvirate have reverted to the old order of
t hings, and now keep a regular corps de ballet attached to
their theatres. This is as it should be, for no dependence
can be placed upon “pick-ups ” at short notice, who can’t
shake a foot to save their souls.
E. A. Glover, the comic singer, who died in Melbourne
last W'eek, went on the London music-hall stage when
quite a boy. He was generally well-liked. He "leaves a
wife and children behind him. He died of rapid con-'
sumption.
“Johnny” Gourlay talks of starting out with his late
father’s entertainment, “ Mrs. M‘Gregor’s Levee.”
Shiel Barry, who is coming out to Australia, is a native
of Sydney, and years ago was in the profession at Bal-
larat.; He used to stand at the wings sometimes with
tears in his eyes vowing that his fellow-actors were trying
to crush him, hut that in spite of them he would succeed.
And he has done so, and for some years past has been
considered one of the very best character-actors on the
London stage.
Where is the Marble Man ?
Jem Mace was once the star in a production of Shakes
pere’s—“ As You like it,” at Niblo’s, New York. He acted
Charles the Wrestler; Walter Montgomery acted Jaques.
This is how Mrs. Alice Shaw whistled herself into the
columns of a Desmoines newspaper at a concert: —“ All
beholders held their breaths as the broad expanse of
snowy, decollated bosom heaved gently, the handsome
head and face uplifted, the rich, ruby lips puckered kiss-
ably, and a soft, sweet, silvery trill shot forth, at once
electrifying the audience, and suggesting the presence of
an impossible cultured canary.” Yum, yum 1
The recently-married Duke of Portland has not figured
as co-respondent in any divorce-case, nor has he kept a
theatre and endowed a burlescpie actress. What an ex-
traordinary young man !
There’s one funny man in Melbourne, one amoozin’
cuss, only one—Frank M. Clark, the showman. He an-
nounces a grand gift enterprise at V ictoria Hall—loads of
coal, brick houses, wood, watches, brooms, mops,
diamond-rings, green baize-gowns, &c., &0., tacked on to
a panorama of Scotland. But here’s the amoozin’. The
lecturer is “’ 1). M‘Andrew, Esq.,” thus billed, and he is
announced to take part in the “ singing and dancing.”
This is about the last knock out, the last blow in the
bread-basket, for the esquire. “ 1). M'Andrew, Esquiah,
will now favour us with a Scotch reel.”
When the late J. J. Bartlett took his company to
Hokitika (N.Z.), in ISOC, poor old Jimmy Hogan (who
lately died at the Actors’ Home, Melbourne) went with
him, as first Old Man. When business got so bad that
Bartlett had to close the theatre, he got Hogan a billet as
grave-digger (not in “ Hamlet,” but in a real cemetery),
and the first corpse he had to inter was that of a Chinese
pauper. Hogan said he wasn’t going to bury hay the ns
for the British Government, and threw up the billet in dis-
gust.
There's a rumour afoot that a syndicate of the Melbourne
aristocracy, headed by Sir Benjamin Benjamin, intended
buying up Child's performing fleas and retaining them in
the odoriferous city, with a view to flattering the son and
heir of the M'Callum Mohr during his exile as subscription-
paid Governor of Victoria. Got pless ta Took of Argyll!
The Marquis is regarded as being born to the “post.”
Übini’s exhibition of educated fleas, now on view in
Sydney, is a reduetio ad absurdum of the actor’s art, and
almost justifies George Mummer Moore’s contention that
the actor hasn't got an art, and, if he has, it's about the
moat ignoble of all the arts that were ever flattered by-
being called arts. The Prince of Wales and the Marquis
of Lome have seen these fleas of Cbini’s. “ One touch of
nature makes the whole world skin.”
David Christie Murray, who arrives in August to lecture,
is to be taken in hand by J.mmy M‘Mahon.
Mr. Alfred Capper, of Melbourne, writes to tell us that
his late grandfather, the actor, died in 1884, at the age of
94, not SO, as stated by us. At 8(i, the old gentleman
wrote his 5-act drama, “ Queen Elizabeth.”
One of the ladies of Searelle’s Opera Company, now in
South Africa, was reported to have eloped from Kimberley
to Johannesburg with a very wealthy masher. Searelle
induced the lady to return to the paths of virtuous opera,
and he was, doubtless, assisted in his laudable task by the
fact that, when the chappie was run to earth, the contents
of his pockets were two keys, a cough-drop and a letter.
At his farewell Sydney picnic Santley said he would
permanently settle in Australia were it not for—well,
those familiar unsurmountable obstacles that force all
distinguished visitors to Australia to return to Pall Mall.
He will not, however, tear himself away before the be-
ginning of next year.
A Warnerian supper to the members of his company
and some friends marked the wind-up of C.W.’s season in
Adelaide. No casualties.
Lawyer Tom Pavey (he and old Harry Mo-lyn are about
the only two people in Australia privileged by Heaven to
wear red neckties) is as rosy as ever. WhoVl believe be
wrote the Christmas pantomime of “The Magician's
Daughter, or Harlequin King of the Golden Island and the
Fairy Rifle Corps ?” It was the first pantomime at Mel-
bourne Royal—in 1855 ?
An American actor was supported by a “coterie”
a coterie, mind you, not a company—of distin-
guished artists. When his aggregation was coming west
from New York the conductor surveyed the rows of
shaved upper-lips and said, interrogatively, to the
manager—“ Company?” “Company, be blow ed,” growled
that worthy; “Coterie! and don't you forget it.” The
coterie sniggered.
Tim Shakespearian councillor, levers, is going to shake
his name in the hat for Mayor of Melbourne. He is the
only orator in the City Corporation, and acted Don Jose
in “Don Caesar de Bazan ” so well as an amateur that
Barry Sullivan offered him a professional engagement.
Lyster’s pet idea was an opera house on the broad space
in front of the Model School, Eastern Hill (Melb.), near
Parliament House and the Princess Theatre. This would
be like the Paris Grand Opera House, with a street on
every side. The Burke and Wills’ statue Is on this
Eastern Hill patch, and would stand nicely in front of an
opera house out of which everyone could rush on the
alarm of fire. The idea is a magnificent one.
Alice Lingard, whose admirers of a dozen years ago
have not thought of her a dozen times since, is
charming all London with her impersonation of Mistress
Ford in “ The Merry Wives” at the Haymarket. Beer.-
bohm Tree, by the way, is the Falstaff of’the production.
The entrepreneur of the performing fleas now exhibiting
in Sydney, is practically making his fortune by leaps and
bounds.
Melbourne badly wants a “ little church round the
corner.” When poor old Jimmy Hogan, the veteran actor,
pegged out there the other day, the big church In the
front street wouldn’t “come on ” and “speak its
part ”at Jimmy’s obsequies. So Nat Douglas, a brother
Thespian, uttered a few words of sorrowful eulogy, and
Mother Earth embraced Hogan's clay none the less com-
pletely because his poor exit was unblessed by hook and
bell.
“ Gilhooley,” Owl of Owls, has got up an entertainment l
for the Melbourne suburbs. Otherwise, he is W. E. G-
Simons, named in full after the G.O.M. Gilhooley has a
pretty wit—a pathetic turn, too—and writes Well-
edits the Australian Journal. His father was W. P,
Simons, the sporting “ Ragpicker.” The writer never
heard anything funnier than Gilhooley's recitation with
the refrain, “ What Sort?”
A drama, written in more or less distant times, by
an amateur, contained the following speech by the
hero:—“By the intervention of the invisible hand of
Providence, I have been prevented from precipitating my-
self at your feet, for the entire absolution of the collecta-
neous calumny which has been so slanderously conglo-
merated upon the unblotted and unsophisticated face of
my stainless reputation, and with which I have been so
maliciously circumvallated, that 1 apprehended the most
mountainous, colossal, and Herculean difficulties in per-
fectly disincarcerating myself from the criminous machi-
nations in which I had been so unmercifully immured.
But, O thou superhuman fair one ! do not for a moment
doubt the moveless stability and fathomless profundity
of my love : for the monocular autocrat of day shall cease
to irradiate the umbrageous recesses of the forest; the
translucent queen of night shall cease to perambulate the
diaphanous and stelliferous concavity of the cerulean
heavens; the horrisonous roaring of'heaven’s artillery
shall cease to bellow forth its terrific peal; the forky cor-
ruscations of the skies shall discontinue to blaze forth
their sulphurous, igneous fulgor from the igniferous
clouds before my love shall he extinguished ; and, oh !
angel of my heart! could the manifestation of the keenest
pangs of conscience raise me but a millionetb part of an
inch into thy favour, I would at once begin to pour forth
such a flood of tears that were the world on fire they
would drown the wrath of heaven and quench the mighty
ruin.”


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
—A—
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
High Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONT
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Cariugtou “By Appointment.”
Sweet Boronia, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. fid.,
ss. and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LGNCtMORE, 138 Bourke-st., East,
Melbourne,
Scalp-Hunting in Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Should anyone anticipate reading here a
Ziighly-coloured picture of an Australian long-
rifle, “ Hawk-eye,” or any other gilt-edged hero of
Action he will be disappointed. The hunter we
have now to deal with is of the “ common or
garden” variety, served plain without “Injun
trimmings. The Australian scalper is severely
practical, and earns his title solely by “ lifting the
hair ”of the agile marsupial. The halo of romance
encircling the head of the lifter of human hair is
not for him.
When kangaroos were first proclaimed
“noxious” animals they were destroyed for the
scalp-money only, and thousands of skins were left
to rot on the ground. In those days it was no un-
common occurrence for a scalper to agree with a
squatter to shoot so many hundred kangaroos on
his run at from Bd. to Is. per scalp, with or with-
out rations. A scalper, when entering into a con-
tract of this kind, required to exercise some judg-
ment, for if he did not calculate to allow a fair
margin above the number he undertook to shoot
he found that the time expended in getting the
last hundred or two greatly diminished his profits.
As an illustration, the following incident occurs
to the writer. Two new-chums contracted with
a moleskin squatter on the Goulburn to kill 2000
kangaroos at Is. per scalp, and with a view of in-
ducing them to complete the contract the squatter
drew up a formidable-looking document stating
that two-thirds of the scalp-money was to remain
in his hands until the whole' 2000 scalps were de-
livered. The hunters (both crack shots) started
cheerfully and the first 1000 scalps were handed
in after seven weeks’ work, which promised
a very fair return for their labour. But,
alas! before they had scored half the second
thousand the wily marsupials became scarce
and each crack of the rifle scared every surviving
one within a mile radius. Instead of dozens of
unsuspecting victims, only one occasional kangaroo
could be found grazing within their boundary. At
length,' when the wretched contractors were forced
to tramp over ridges from dawn till dark for an
average of 2s. per diem, while the shooters outside
the fence were reaping a rich harvest, they caved
in and threw up their contract. They pointed out
to the tin-hut pastoralist the utter impossibility of
completing the number during a life-time at the
rate they were then progressing, and appealed to
him to pay over the balance of Bd. per scalp on
those already secured in consideration of the pro-
fitless weeks they had spent in clearing the last
marsupial off his run. But Sandy flourished his
agreement and refused to part. The Stock Pro-
tection Board in that particular district offered a
bonus of fid. per scalp, so the canny Scot not only
got his run cleared for nothing but made a cool DO
per cent, profit upon the scalps obtained bv the
deluded contractors !
* * *
But we have changed all that owing to a
growing demand for marsupial skins, which have
gradually increased in value during the past few
years until they have touched £8 per dozen,
and some extra-fine samples carefully skinned
with head and claws complete have fetched as
much as 20s. each. In spite of the drought these
“noxious” animals are still maintaining their
v alue, while the sheep in whose interest they
are destroyed have in many cases been given
away as useless even for boiling down ! The
gloomy irony of this circumstance is relieved
by the quaint humour of those Stock Boards
which are offering a reward of 2d. for the scalp of
a kangaroo whose skin is already dried and sent
to market. It is only reasonable to suppose that
if the value of the skin fails to induce men to hunt
kangaroos they will scarcely be spurred into
activity by the chance of getting the dazzling sum
of 2d. for a scalp that has to be humped across
country to the nearest Inspector and deposited
with a solemn affidavit that it was shofMfi that
particular district. A smaller marsupial, techni-
cally called a “brusher,” outnumbers the kan-
garoo in some districts and is purely a noxious
animal, devouring the crops of the farmer and the
grass of the squatter, with a preference for the
former; yet these same districts persist in offering
2d. as an inducement to kill kangaroos already
dead and allow nothing for the ‘ ‘ brusher, ” which
is allowed to remain very much alive. The skin
of the “brasher” is comparatively worthless, and,
moreover, not pleasant to handle, being invariably
covered with vermin. If the ridiculous reward
now wasted upon kangaroos were transferred to
the wretched “brusher,” the number that could
be shot in an evening would induce many shooters
to destroy them and cautiously remove their ears ;
but without scalp-money this pest, compared to
which the valuable kangaroo is harmless, will con-
tinue to wax fat upon the crops of the farmers.
* * *
Kangaroo-shooting may now be ranked as
a national industry in N.S.W., and some idea may
be gained of the number employed at it by a
glance at the reports of the Sydney salesmen. One
firm alone sold, during the winter months, an
average of 20,000 skins weekly, in addition to
thrice that number of ’possum, wallaby, and bear-
skins, which provide professional kangarooists
with working expenses. In the winter months,
when the fur is in good condition, ’possum-skins
are worth 14s. per dozen, but during the summer,
when the fur grows loose and scanty, they fluctuate
considerably, and the best will only bring about Gs.
Native bear-skins are not much sought after, and
rarely fetch more than 7s. per dozen. The fur is
short and dense, and the hide thick and service-
able, but still, for some reason or other, they are
not in great demand. He is a poor sample of a
“bar,” anyhow ; he does not know enough to get
out of the way of, or dodge, a brickbat, and is only
remarkable for his extreme simplicity and the
thickness of his skull, upon which the heaviest
waddy produces no effect. Apropos of the Aus-
tralian bear, a friend of the writer’s was surprised
one morning at seeing one of these ferocious-
looking animals seated on the top rail of a fence
facing a public road. Bruin had, no doubt, been
overtaken by the daylight on his return home, and,
seeing no trees about,, had instinctively taken
refuge on the fence, where he sat blinking stupidly
at the sun—a wretched victim to late hours.
Knowing that the belated bear would suffer a
cruel death in the event of a small boy sighting
such an easy prey, the good Samaritan crossed the
road and endeavoured to arouse him to a sense of
his dangerous position, and further tried, by a
vigorous demonstration of hostility, to induce him
to retreat across the paddock to the safety of the
tall gum-trees. But Bruin was as obstinate as a
drunken sailor, and, save by a faint stare of sur-
prise, took not the slightest notice of the friendly
efforts made to scare him from his perch. The
good Samaritan persisted with mild persuasion
until ho grew warm upon the subject, and prodded
the obstinate brute with a stick, but that mis-
guided bear gripped the rail with the tenacity
of a politician in office, and howled almost
as loud at being asked to resign his posi-
tion. At length the good Samaritan lost
his temper completely, and charged viciously
at the astonished bear with a heavy rail from the
fence. After a few desperate rushes he succeeded
in knocking the brute out of the perpendicular,
but the bear hung on to the rail just as comfort-
ably upside down, and to all appearances with
even greater determination than before. At this
stage the bear-puncher began to feel somewhat dis-
couraged in his good work and he paused to take
breath and consider, for the subject before the meet-
ing had now assumed a complicated aspect —the
question had been turned wrong side up so to speak.
At last a bright idea was proposed arid carried.
Using his battering-ram as a crowbar, the now
exultant Samaritan inserted it cautiously between
the top rail of the fence and Bruin’s chest and bore
down heavily upon it. “ Eureka !” he shouted, as
Bruin’s forepaws relaxed under the heavy strain,
but, alas ! he still held on all taut astern, and as
soon as the crowbar was shifted to cast his stern
adrift the fore part of that Samaritan’s contract
was anchored firmly to the rail again, and before
he could execute a flank movement Bruin had, by
a desperate scramble, regained his perpendicular
attitude, and was gazing with a bland expression
of satisfaction at his perspiring benefactor. To
relate all the artful schemes resorted to in the vain
attempt to induce that bear to return home to the
iff ..-i-'.s
A PRACTICAL VIEW.
ONE-LEGGED MISSIONARY: “YOU SHOULD NOT GET DRUNK AND CURSE
SO, MY GOOD MAN. YOU MAY DROP DEAD AT ANY MOMENT AND
DESCEND TO THE DREADFUL PITS-”
ITALIAN SWAGMAN (on a “burst”): “SHURE AN’ IF I DID WOULDN’T I
TAKE CAR’ O’ YER LEG TILL YIZ KEM YERSEF!”
bosom of his family would take up too much
space. Suffice it then to state that .after two
hours’ heavy wrestling, in which the bear always
appeared on top, the benevolent attentions of
the good Samaritan turned to bitterness, and
seating himself in the dust he inspected his torn
garments and bleeding hands and invoked a heavy
curse upon Bruin and his imbecile race. Then,
when he had tarried sufficiently, he arose and
smote the placid bear one fearful smite on the nose
and went on his way without once looking back.
Bruin watched him out of sight, and then resumed
his interrupted inspection of the sun, serenely un-
conscious of any dangerous connection between
small boys and road-metal.
* * *
But to return to kangarooing. The motto
of the kangaroo-hunter is “ profit, not sport,” and
though the marsupial will yield both, he is not
called upon to provide anything more than his
skin, and with dogs, trap-yards, and rifles arrayed
against him he has small chance of retaining his
costly hide. The “old man,” snuffing the air
suspiciously at every sound as he keeps guard over
his tribe grazing around him, must regret the days
when, as a noxious animal only, he was valued at
fid., and found time for a square feed. Hunting
with dogs affords very good sport if one is suffi
ciently well mounted to follow the dogs, and can
boast “ that through thicket or scrub he can steer
like a shot.” But unless the country hunted over
is well supplied with water-holes wherein the dogs
can wallow after a hard run they soon get knocked
up, especially where the ground is hard or stony.
On an open stretch of country a good kangaroo-
dog will quickly overhaul his prey, bub if
there is any thick scrub adjacent the experienced
“old man” makes straight for it and clears
all obstacles in easy strides while the dog, in the
excitement of the chase, dashes blindly against
stumps and fallen timber, and so loses sight of the
chase. The squatter has a healthy objection to
hunting-dogs of any breed, for, in addition to the
loss he may sustain by having his flocks disturbed,
especially in the lambing season, he is perfectly
aware that a kangaroo dog, when hungry, will
prefer the easy capture of a sheep to a stern chase
after a marsupial. For these reasons it is seldom
that a man who is accompanied by any kind of a
mongrel can get permission to hunt over a squat-
ter’s run, and he is therefore obliged to keep his
hunting-dog within the limits of Crown lands.
The professional hunter, however, doesn’t hanker
after dogs, for, though he might do well with them
for a short time where kangaroos are plentiful, he
prefers to camp in a good spot for a few weeks
with steady work for his rifle rather than scare
away all the game within miles for the sake of a
few days’ easy work with dogs.
* * *
There are but few ancient relics of the
Leather Stocking tribe to be found in the ranks of
the hunters. The Australian hunter is either less
tough than his American prototype, or he earns
money enough to retire early into civilised life, for
one meets but few who are on the shady side, of
30. There is a slight balance in favour of the
early-retiring theory, for, unlike the simple Ameri-
can “ trapper,” the xAustralian child of the forest
prefers sending his skins to market to “ planting ”
them in a cave and forgetting to call for them. He
has indeed but little difficulty in disposing of his
skins, for even though he may be shooting a
hundred miles or more from market he can gener-
ally rely upon meeting one of those enterprising
hard bargains who travel through the bush with a
light waggon seeking for cargo. In common with
most middlemen, these dealers pouch the largest
share of the profits, and being to a certain extent
acquainted with the market they are enabled to
drive very profitable bargains with the “ far back ”
hunters who have had no chance of learning
through a friendly paper that “skins are up.”
Just here the writer is suddenly reminded of a
little story relating to one of these hard bargains,
and as it contains no mention of a bear and is
strictly of a marsupial nature no apology is needed
for its appearance. Here it is, then. During the
past winter, when kangaroo-skins were realizing
exceptionally high prices, a .frenchman named
Hooligan, who was earning a modest living as a
travelling poultry-dealer, conceived the brilliant
idea of extending his operations to the buying of
skins for the Sydney market. Concerning
kangaroos, Hooligan’s knowledge was of a legen-
dary nature, but his keen commercial instinct
whispered that if he purchased the largest skins
for the smallest amount of cash he could not go
very far astray, and so it happened that his next
poultry tour found him making inquiries for
“ shkins.”
* * *
Now, Hooligan’s poultry - clients were
mostly small farmers and selectors, who only
hunted occasionally for sport; but upon hearing
that Hooligan would purchase freely, for cash,
these simple people devoted the Day of Rest to
kangaroo-hunting instead of cricketing, footracing,
heading ’em, and other Sabbath observances pecu-
liar to the bush. In due course the poultry-mer-
chant revisited them with an extra large waggon
and a small bag of hard cash which he jingled in a
seductive manner. Then the selectors spread
their skins before him for a deal, but Hooligan,
whose ignorance of the business rendered him ex-
tremely cautious, showed no inclination to make
an offer and grumbled at the size of the skins. In
vain the disappointed hunters exhibited their
largest trophies before him and protested that
their district was renowned frr oldrinan kangaroos.
Hooligan shook his head knowingly and remained
unmoved by their eloquence. At last he gave his
ultimatum, “ Oi’ll give Is. for these shmall shkins
and 2s. for a rale ould mahn-shkin.”
* * *
Now there were several “rale ould mann”
skins in the pile displayed before him, anyone of
which would have brought 10s. in the Sydney
market, but Hooligan had rather lofty ideas con-
cerning the size of a kangaroo. He had seen one
exaggerated specimen of the animal rampant on a
jam-tin and had heard of an “old man” tower-
ing two feet above the head of a tall hunter;
therefore the largest skin that the oldest inhabi-
tant could remember having seen failed to im-
press the poultry-merchant, who merely remarked
that it was “ a purty foine shkin, but nothing ap-
proaching rale ould mahn.” At length, after
some stormy bargaining, one of the selectors con-
sented to take Is. each for a pile of the wretched
“ brushers” previously described, which was about
3d. more than the lamblike poultry purveyor would
get for them after carting them 150 miles to mar-
ket. This smart deal seemed to open the eyes of
the selectors, and the situation quickly dawned
upon them. Hooligan was pressed to stay in the
district, for brushers were, unhappily, very plenti-
ful, and the prospect of getting rid of them at a
profit delighted those simple dwellers in the wil-
derness. So it came to pass that the poultry-
farmer departed, after a prolonged visit, with a
heavy cargo of brushers only, and, though his
purse was empty, his heart was filled with joy, for
kangaroo-skins were up sky-high, and Hooligan
dreamt pleasantly of 500 per cent, profit as he
slept beneath Ids waggon. Doubtless his clients
had pleasant dreams, for they had been well paid
for destroying a largr number of their greatest
pests. Their consciences smote them not when
they thought of the surprise ahead of the hen-
merchant, for he was a dealer, and the joyous fame
that comes to the man that gets to windward of a
dealer is a joy that endures for ever.
* * #
When Hooligan returned, after a painful
and prolonged absence, he brought with him only
the little poultry-cart and an air of subdued
ferocity. He even swore when one of his clients
mentioned that he had another pile of “kangaroo
shkins ” awaiting inspection, and the largest sam-
ple oven of the genuine article failed to tempt him
to make an offer. But it was when an aged agri-
culturalist, with a child-like expression, solicited
an offer for a heap of brushers that Hooligan’s rage
burst forth. “ Yah !to blazes wid yer shmall
shkins,” he howled ; “oi Ihost twinty good notes
on the last lot, an’ divil a shkin oi’ll look at again
unless it’s a rale ould man.”
There one of the crowd who had come to the
rendezvous to work off a corner in “brushers”
winked slyly at a neighbour as he exclaimed,
“Why, Ben, you’ve a skin pegged out over at
your place that ought to fetch Hooligan’s top
price. ”
“Yes, by the powers I have,” shouted Ben,
passing the wink on to the crowd, “step over and
see it, Hooligan. It’s a ‘ rale ould mahn,’ and if
you don’t spring ss. for it you’re a hard case. ”
When the little party arrived at Benjamin’s
selection and Hooligan was introduced to a skin
covei-ing all one side of a slab hut, his eyes
sparkled with joy, but he quickly assumed his
usual “ it-is-naught-saith-the-buyer ’’expression as
he noticed that all eyes were upon him.
“Well, what do you think of that one?” asked
Ben, as Hooligan stood silently gazing at the skin
vainly striving to reckon up how many square
yards it contained.
“ Well,” drawled the diplomatic poultry-lifter,
“it’s sartainly a very fair shkin, Ben, a very fair
shkin, indeed; but oi’ve seen much larger an
that.”
“What! don’t you call that a large skin?”
shouted the staggered party in chorus.
“Well it’s not what ye’d call a shmall shkin,”
replied Hooligan, with a calm, judicial air of
impartiality, but it’s not the rale ould mahn soize.
Anyhow, Ben, oi’ll give ye eighteenpence for it, and
chance what I lose on it.” This reckless offer was
received with yells of laughter as Ben whipped
out the pegs and displayed the chestnut coat of
his lately deceased draught horse, and placing the
head and hoofs upon the hide asked Hooligan if
he would spring another sixpence for the “rale
ould mahn ” complete.” All in vain, the crest-
fallen judge of kangaroo-skins and owld mahn’s
protested that “he knew the bhoys were joking
wid him.” Hooligan now confines his operations
to assorted poultry.
* * *
The details of a scalper’s life have so far
been only lightly dealt with. As this sketch is
intended to afford information rather than amuse-
ment, and as some of my readers may be medita-
ting a scalping expedition a few remarks upon
firearms may be acceptable. Most youngsters
arriving in Australia are provided with a weapon
of some kind, the choice varying from the homely
and erratic blunderbluss—-the parting souvenir of
a bucolic grandparent—to the artistically finished
choke-bore. The latter generally finds its M'ay to
the pawnshop—sometimes owing to the financial
difficulties of its owner, but more often because he
learns that there is very little small game in
the bush worth shooting, and a new-chum
desirous of sport among the kangaroos is glad to
exchange his shot-gun for a rifle. On the other
hand, the obliging “ uncle ” is never loth to barter
a trade rifle for a costly choke-bore, A large
number of cheap firearms, chiefly of German
manufacture, are imported, and anyone not
familiar with the initials of well-known London
makers is apt to imagine he is handling one of
their weapons instead of a worthless and danger-
ous counterfeit, made for the guileless savages of
the Pacific, to exchange for copra, pearl-shell, &c.
# # #
One of the best rifles for kangaroo-shooting
ever handled by the writer was a Martini, made
to the order of a kangarooist, in London. It
weighed fijlbs. only, was a ‘440 bore, and the
barrel could be unscrewed and conveniently packed
in a swag. Simplicity, lightness, and durability
are the chief points to be considered when choosing
a bush rifle. Repeating-rifles and all other com-
plicated designs are unsuitable. They are liable
to get out of order, and the extra weight tells
during a long tramp beneath a scorching sun. A
’440 Martini sporting rifle weighs from fi| to fiflbs.
As it carries hollow-fronted bullets, it will kill
better than a heavier rifle with a solid hall, and
the saving of lead is a considerable item both in
cost and carriage. Scalpers usually hunt in
couples, and, when properly equipped, have at
least two horses each, one to ride and the other to
carry a pack. In some instances a light spring-cart


A Mongolian lias thumped a Ballarat man
in good scientific style for calling him “ monkey.”
The Caucasian is paid out.
Everybody should use I’enieH’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 9G Bathurst-street, Sydney.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the,
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Ixiglis «Ss Co.,
4 & 6 Dean's Place, SYDNEY.
For Debility
TJSR lIOnSFORD’S ACID I'IIOSPIIATR.
i»r. B. M add am, M.R.C.S., and L.S.A., Meadow Sides,
Staines, Kii". says!-- “I (ind it. a most admirable pre-
paration in cases of extreme debility.”
John M'Ewaii Co,,
AUCTIONEEKS,
JU A. M X 3
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, See., Sco.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &c.
Printed List Businesses lor Sale issued Daily.
All Lists posted Fbee on application.
is adopted, and has many advantages where the
country is open. A cart enables the shooters to
carry provisions for an extended tour, is more
comfortable to travel, in, and is very useful for
conveying a load of skins to a depot. On the other
Land a cart in a wet season may get hopelessly
togged on the black-soil plains for a month at a
afretch or in rough country have to be abandoned
altogether. The two modes of travelling may be
sized up thus; If you shoot for profit only, and
want to move about anywhere and quickly, use
i tack- horses, and bo prepared for .a limited diet of
“salt horse ” and damper. If you are in no hurry,
and prefer sport with comparative comfort, take a
choice selection of canned provisions in a cart, and
select your route accordingly.
* *
The professional hunter, who follows bis
game up through any sort of country has no fancy
for the luxury of a spring-cart. He trusts to out-
lying stations for his supplies, and is content with
the usual ration of flour, meat, and tea. these he
can stow away in the roomy leather bags on his
pack-saddle, and, should he run short of salt pink,
a steak from a young kangaroo provides a welcome
substitute. It may be of darker colour, and a trifle
less iuioy than a beef-steak, but yet it is excellent
eating. It is difficult to account for the prejudice
that most Australian natives have against it. Ihe
kangaroo lives upon the choicest of grass, as the
squatter knows to his sorrow;, and, no doubt if
beef and mutton were as dear in Australia as in
England the thousands of marsupials now slaugh-
tered daily would find a ready sale instead of
being allowed to rot where they fall. Most of the
scalpers one meets are Anglo-Australian- who, by
the way, are generally more enthusiastically
Australian than the native-born youths, which
may account for their very prejudiced views upon
kangaroo-steaks. It is a strange inconsistency
that the majority of those who disdain to eat a
cut from the' animal will eagerly accept its tail
which is converted into soup, dla ox-tail. Lhis
fact requires a deal of pondering over.
. # • .* *
We will now take a glimpse at our scalpers
on the war-path. Long before the sun rises and
the magpie’s morning salutation is heard they
leave their tent. The billy is boiled, a handful of
tea thrown in, and, after a hurried breakfast of
beef and damper, they are on the march, for the
kangaroo is an early feeder and usually retires to
the shelter of the scrub before the sun’s rays be-
come unpleasant. Advancing cautiously, and
'keeping a bright look-out on either side, the
scalpers detect the slightest movement before
them. The falling of a branch, the scamper of a
hare through the long grass, the hurried scramble
of an iguana and a hundred other familiar sounds
'are all noted, for nothing, however trivial, is
passed unnoticed by a bushman. Suddenly they
halt and drop behind a fallen tree. The cause of
the halt'is merely the outline of a form seen dimly
through a clump of bush a hundred yards or
more ahead of them. An ordinary observer
would certainly fail to notice anything
peculiar in the vicinity of that little clump of
; bushes, but our scalpers , have instantly recog-
nised that shadowy form standing motionless
behind it, and have detected their quarry.
A sharp report startles the bush into life and a
mob of kangaroos start up from the long grass like
magic. One. bounds a few yards and drops dead.
The remainder make a sudden curve in their
’• course and stop to glance back curiously at their
fallen leader, for the old man who was on watch
; behind the bush is the first victim. It is a fatal
curiosity, for the rifles crack together, and two of
them drop and lie struggling whilst they utter
hoarse, almost human groans. The survivors, now
completely demoralised, bound in all directions.
Two of them make towards the spot where the
. shooters are concealed, the others start in the
opposite direction, but stop once more to look
back for their companions. Again the rifles startle
them, hut a kangaroo coining straight on is a diffi-
cult shot, and only one rifle scores. The one
missed, a young doe, throws her little “joey ” out
of her snug pouch to shift for himself and shapes
a course for the rest of the mob, who, having at
last discovered the shooter’s position, are now
unanimous as to the best route for safety and are
almost out of sight. Our commercial sportsmen
now emerge from cover and, drawing their long
sheath knives, quickly secure the skins and return
to camp. Over the midday meal they exchange
their experiences of the morning tramp, and after
dinner the skins are pegged out to dry in the
shade.
# # *
This operation is one that requires prac-
tice. A flat surface being necessary, the side of a
slab hut or the smooth bark of a large gum or box-
tree are the best, but, failing both, they are often
pegged out on the hard ground. The skins are
stretched as square as possible from the shoulders
downwards and, after a few hours’ exposure, are
r ;ady for removal. In the summer a little extra
trouble is caused by the necessity of providing
against the destructive propensities of weevils,
which is done by washing the inside of the skin
over with a solution of arsenic and soda-crystals
immediately after they are pegged out. The skins
having been duly stretched and pegged, our
hunters clean their rifles, re-fill cartridges, or lounge
in the shade with a pipe or The Bulletin —like
every other bushman the kangaroo-hunter reads The
Bulletin —for company until the sun is preparing to
dip, when the early morning programme is re-
peated, until it is too dark to sight a rifle. Then,
wearied by their long tramp, but cheered, per-
chance, with the comforting reflection that they
have earned more by the day’s work than a pallid
quill-driver gets for slaving a whole week, they
retrace their steps; to the camp, and
While the leaves that crackle and hiss and sigh,
Feed the flames with their scented oils,
In a calm content, by the fire they lie,
And watch while the billy boils.
Then more beef and damper, a drink of tea, a pipe
and a sociable chat oyer the fire, and our hunters
turn in beneath the blankets on a bed of fragrant
leaves, and are soon lost in the dreamless slumber
that comes only to men who' exercise constantly in
the open air, live regularly, and live simply.
BOSSO.
Personal Items.
David Gaunson speaks of the “dim reli-
gious light ” of a publican’s bar open on a Sunday
evening.
Edmund Yates says be believes in the good
old heathen principle of giving love for love and
hate for hate.
Three of the big Mount Morgan share-
holders spell their name “Hall.” The Bulletin
always thinks of it as Haul.
A son of the famous De Quincey is now
Sergeant-at-Arms in the N.Z. Assembly. He will
be able to sleep there without opium.
Queen Victoria’s waistband is four inches
longer than her skirt. Which, being interpreted,
signifies that H.C.M. is broader than she’s long.
J. B. Elworthy, proprietor of the Gunda-
gat Times, a N.S.W. country journal, left over
£5OOO behind him. This is the most extraordinary
thing we ever heard of.
Sir James Hector, the N.Z. savant , speaks
of ‘ ‘ the perfect athletic mania which has arisen in
the Australias.” To be a hero, he says, you must
be able to punch or kick.
Mr. G. H. Greene, member for Grenfell
(N. S. W.), and brother -in-law to- the late Sir
William Stawell, was the first to take the B.A.
degree at Melbourne University (1858).
According to the P.M. Gazette, M issionary
G. B. Studd (he came to Australia once as a
cricketer) lately made over 100 runs at cricket in
Shanghai attired in Chinese dress and pigtail.
Mr. Justice Windeyer—when in the
N.S.W. Parliament —fathered the- Act enabling
colonial barristers to ascend the Supreme Court
Bench, and he was the first appointed under it.
Dr. M‘Gregor—we like him ever so much
better as Doctor than as. “Sir William”—is the
first New Guinea explorer who has made his repu-
tation by work instead of printer’s ink. Now that
a man has, for the first time, set foot on Mount
Owen Stanley, 13,000 feet above the sea, who will
climb the gigantic Mount Hercules '!
K'i' M
£SS=S?SSSS-'
ť
“OUT OE THE BILLYCAN INTO THE LYRE.”
Up to a recent time an old woman used to
gather sticks in the lanes near Melbourne General
Post Office. Her husband was the original pur-
chaser, for £4O, of a lot in the vicinity now worth
£BO,OOO.
It turns out that the libel for which Mrs.
Campbell-Praed’s husband got damages against
the editor of The Gentleman was a statement by
the latter in a private letter to Mrs. Praed, that
her husband had asked a young lady to dine alone
with him.
Dean Macartney, who is over 90 years of
age, attended an Orange celebration the other day
in Melbourne and expressed his deep sympathy
with the Irish landlords in their distress .- The
monagenarian Dean is himself a large owner of
bricks and mortar.
Mrs. Maybrick, the fascinating 27-year-
old; woman charged with having poisoned her 50-
year-old husband at Liverpool (Eng.), is a French
Canadian of aristocratic descent. She is the
daughter of a Mobile banker, and her mother is
now the wife of Baron Roque—whoever he may
,be. The accused has a private fortune of £l2OO a
year, and when she first arrived in England she
was committed to the care of Ruskin, who is an
■old friend of the family.
The Universal Review, just to hand, has
a capital article on the Times. Its editors have
retained their wits for a marvellously long time.
There have only been five in about 80 years.
Stoddart was the first of fame, very early In this,
century. He was “ sacked ” for being such a
desperate Tory, and Barnes was bunched up at
once from reporter to editor. This was a big fat
man, a prodigious success. Delane followed him.
Next Chenory, then Buckle.
The late General Sir Edward Strickland,
who died in Sydney last week, had seen a deal of
service in the Commissariat department of the
British army. At one time he was a bosom crony
of the late Mr. Dailey, but they fell out over the
Soudan Expedition. Sir Edward claimed that the
idea of sending Australian troops to Africa was
originated by him, and by him alone ; Mr. Dailey,
however, got whatever credit attached to it, the
result being that the old friendship burst up,
The Zcalandia brings to our shores a lady
well known in literary and artistic circles in Cali-
fornia and" a quondam contributor of articles to
that prince among magazines, Harper’s Monthly.
Mrs. J. D. Strong, better known by her nom de
plume “ Belle 0.-. borne,” is an artist of no mean
pretensions; her successes, however, have been
more decided as an artist in words than in colours,
and some of her contributions to the Argonaut
and other San Francisco journals give evidence of
a talent which ought to be consecrated to literal
fure. She is the step-daughter of the popular
writer, Robert Louis Stevenson, with whom her
husband, J. D. Strong, is at present enjoying a
yachting voyage in the Pacific.
Paddy O’Sullivan, lawgiver (Q.), discovered
one of the few good qualities of the Australian
blackfellow years before many of the present,
generation of politicians were born. Paddy was
camping among the sable sansculottes on the
“Snowy River,” and, to make a small supply of
tobacco go a long way, Pat. constituted himself a
committee of ways and means. He put a potato
on a 1 stump, and offered a fig of “ sheep-wash ” .to
every nigger who could spear it at fifty yards. He
backed down, however, when two niggers running
transfixed the “ spud ” the first throw. It seemed
likely, for a while, that they would take it out, < f
the O’S. for breach of contract by practising on his
brain-box instead of the “ Murphy, ” but he was
providentially reserved for higher things.
The miserable little-mindejuess of the
late millionaire Watson is nowhere more evident
than in that section of his will wherein he leaves
his married daughters sums of various amounts
yearly- such amounts to be doubled upon the
death of their husbands. The Croesus who will
deliberately sit down and provide that his own
daughter shall look forward to a profit on the
death of the husband of her choice—and it is
notorious that the one husband to whom Watson
particularly objected was a good-hearted and
essentially manly itian —well, who would envy the
millions of such a being if they had to take with
them his nature V Now that Watson is gone, the
miners (remember that he made his first great coup
fry “ besting ” bis old mate Wade ; that, although
he made all his stupendous wealth on Bendigo by
quartz mining, he never invested one single penny
in prospecting the district, and that during his
lifetime he gave nothing to the needy local
charities. With all his millions he was an utterly
unlovely character.
“ Who’s Griffiths ? ” Sir John Robertson
can supply a cursory description.
A miserable wretch has been awarded
twelve months in irons by a Melbourne Court for
being illegally at large in the colony.
The Eitfell Tower at Paris Exhibition is a
thousand feet high. Just look at Lansell’s new
shaft at No. 180 Mine, Sandhurst. It is 2500
feet ! In other words, two-and-a-half Eiffel
Towers, and infinitely more wonderful.
Editor Bulletin.— Dear Sir,—Please find en-
closed receipt for £7 145., being one per cent, on amount
realised by “Adam Bede” on the Coronation Consulta-
tion. The donation will be advertised in to-morrow’s
Hhrald. With many thanks, I remain, dear sir, yours
obediently, H. W, Russell, Secretary Sydney Hospital.
17th July, 1889.
Dear Bulletin, —Yotir recently-published
story of George Moore, judge’s associate of old-
time, reminds me that I once met him strolling
down Collins-street, Melbourne,, with an air as
though he were looking for something. “What
have you lost, Mr. Moore ?” was my query. “An
aero of land that belongs to me, located some-
where in this street.” As I had not previously
■suspected him of being a millionaire, he related, hi
answer to my queries, that at the gold-rush time
of 1854, a bachelor-uncle of his won an acre allot-
ment in Collins-street in a raffle, and evidently nob
thinking very much of his prize, left the deeds
with his solicitor. This latter gentleman was
afflicted in the same way that some of his tribe
are in Sunny N.S.W., and had to skip to Val-
paraiso. In due time The old doctor died, and
George, as his sole heir, is still looking for the
allotment that is part of his heritage.—Yours,
Crow-eater.
POLITICAL POINTS
The N.S.W. Legislative Assembly includes
a Dickens and a Cruickshank.
“He who hungers shall he fed ; he who
thieves shall be hanged” — Mowjh-und-remly lejal
code of the French Convention.
The paragraph that sent the editor of the
Berlin Yolks-Zeitung to prison : “ If Bismarck
lives five years longer free press and free speech
will be unknown in Germany.”
We will have to get up a Monroe doctrine
for Australia, too. No Crown colonies ! West
Australia is to have the whole mouthful. It can
govern better than Downing-street.
Haynes, M.P., at Mudgee : —“ He saw
that day by day the Orange Institution was giving
up its character as an Irish Institution and was
becoming an Australian one.” How delightful !
Another attempt is to be made to gal-
vanise a connection between Australia and
Canada. But we can only get at Canada through
the United-States. Our sympathy with the United
States is 99-100ths, with Canada l-100th.
“Boomerang” Lane told Land-nationalizer
Farrell that he (Farrell) would, in course of time,
become a thorough-going Socialist. He (Lane)
had known many intelligent Land-nationalizers
who had become Socialists, but lie had never
known any intelligent Socialist who had become a
Land-nationalizer. Socialism is a platform of
which Land-nationalism is only a plank, though
an important one.
The members of the Victorian Legislative
Assembly have had the impudence to provide
themselves at State expense with a tennis-court
at the rear of Parliament House; When William
Trenwith gets there in flannels he will forget all
about the working man. ' His- threepenny cigar
will be exchanged for an eighteenpenny, and then
he will go and knock about the balls in the Par-
liamentary biUiard-rooni.
The Argus thinks that' Imperial Parkin
will find that a strong public opinion on the ques-
tion of'drawing those “ silken bonds ” closer has
yet to lie formed, hiit that, after full enquiry, lie
will be able to inform Lord,Salisbury “that the
popular bias is all the riyht iceiy.” We believe it is
all the right way, estimating the right way by the
Aug vs way, which always Mas, is, must, will and
ever shall be the wrongest way possible/
Premier Salisbury’s support of Women s
Suffrage has evoked a stupid protest -ini the Nine-
teenth Century,-- signed by a long.striiig of ladies.
Why do women want votes T ‘Because they were
never so badly off in the history of the world as
they are now. Chivalry is dead. Woman has to
compete with, man .and it’s devil take the hind-
most—always the woman. Man makes the laws—
for himself. Of course the aristocratic Nine-
teenth Century ladies don’t feel the pinch. As
for the argument that Christianity, as practised,
has improved the position of woman—why, look at
the streets of London.
The memoirs of Count Horace de Viel-
Castel, of which an English translation recently
appeared, seem to be particularly vitriolic in
character. The Court of Louis Napoleon would
not, according to this jaundiced chronicler, have
discredited Heliogabalus or Caligula, and if any
further explanations of the causes which led to the
d isastrous defeat of France by Germany in 1870-71,
and the fall of the Second Empire were wanted,
they would be found in abundance here. One
anecdote is specially suggestive of the rottenness
of the French military system of some twenty
years ago. Previous to the Italian campaign,
Marshal Vaillant, Minister for War, sent a note
to his department from the Imperial Cabinet—
“ The Emperor wishes to know if the 30th Regi-
ment has left and lie added, “ Say yes.”
The popular celebration of the Centenary
of the Bastille downfall, in Melbourne, Sunday
afternoon, July 14th, at the Apollo Hall, was
almost a fizzle, through mismanagement. There
was a thronged attendance, and a grand result
ought to have been achieved. However, they
will do better at the next Centenary, July 14th,
1989. One of. the features of the Sydney celebra-
tion was the smashing down by the chairman of a
miniature prison of gilded gingerbread which
stood on the dinner-table —a performance that
can hardly be considered to have added to the
dignity or impressiveness of the proceedings,
THE BASTILLE.
I call the Revolution a symbol,
The crucifixion and resurrection of the common
people.
They tore down the damnable and cruel Bastille.
Why ? Because the King was obstinate,
Propping up the nobles and the clergy
’Gainst the Third Estate. Wherefore
Brave Camille Desmoulins, with streaming hair,
And pistol in each hand, sprang on the table,
Cutting short the Palais Royal debate.
With “ To Arms !”
Then, the European tyrants
Thought to quench the Revolution with their
armies.
Up bounded Danton with th’ immortal words :
“ We want audacity, always audacity *1”
And so we do. France hurled back"
The hireling legions. Your Robespierre and Marat
Were created by the Kings. .., ; |
H.P.


*
*7:
°w
7
-
ra yd ft*'**'/<* atcwpf/t" rf') >rar
utivo ycwr 6acA /
(***&*
ms 7>sctyj*fs iurferj f
hjpt&rzp- s
'Maty/#“ c “0 fa*?. /%ce /je
tatyfij- fipsjb/artudy ur
Vain a 6fa 7sf *ja*y ?"* ?" r
6e y<° Sa/p
psczj ?o*S ** *?/
Aod ac .
r,qc( your &/[ /f/pre
J <A><u/ y#/ Zh^/jKy,
73i//-y/ar j/j - cj/rf - I Jay tf/d
/?<*(, afriqfrldf«. shu(A tyf Cjjafdi"“
Jay /af/ty/ir? u ay?4/c ccfe Q.yc( s/o aTi/y'au/-
hus/am a (' o '?b a 'rV /s///y yf/>ti6hc //,
__ ypu a yc{ l/a /y as fusr Fa&hrn f
fffiCrf s/'ty‘je / 7'f"/J «*ir '
|f £ /(IL/£R3
ftrf'/Av
J' S/F, Dou > you ScucL
-y?. ay erj / '
06 .
icOc* you. tor*/*.
7aryyu y frof /A/Supper
•(c)/ "
fiy/’/*rys'
"~ J you yci-y tyfy 6orrod) o. otfyff’/'
< 6ot~r vco, ayd t"7 e
7a//<e *T /a /,oy 6ty'o/-r
a <jo £f> /■
Qura/ur- /p Quod - />oe£ „
Tusniry . VCuM 4/>a*y ot/fcfaf
/o '/fy Aarrh 'ayf><d e/fy w/s frtr
Sus/frA*’ * au,a Y 'V fUor *'?
/jyy 7m de
'A circular, cinch nj
now being distributed'>o tjio metropolis'.
| announces t Life and I
[ property are & ho safeguarded |
I in the hours of. darkness by 'a _ coin-
I inercial entnnanv.
i'Xhe numerous burglaries of warehouses
and.private dwellings,’' it. says; “ that
have taken place within- the last few
| months have convinced us that the pro-
1, seat mode of ‘ night-watching ’ adopted
j is altogether imperfect and irregular,
i and on the strength of this fact wo have
founded an organisation, of espionage
which Ave feel sure will meet with the
cjjttpj approval, of thy general public.’’
“Our
watch men, all aftfii of undoubted charac-,
'. teV;.uro ~t6‘he on c}uty from »’> o'clock
■p.m.,till ft o’clock a.tn. in the city, and
'from, "i 0 • o clock* • fill r t m’clopk,
ia.10., vHouses in terraces are offered -
the -fcmnpahy’s’ protection for ds , per
'Wyckj-vand detached houyrs will Ijsjya
'to pay from 2s to p's (id.
fur*you.
Cl do'f ffcte fdf dd ryy <°yr Ofyierjfvr
J '' 7 ' 'r* W/ aa /j -
T “ 7 f" to y *,*
:>/ '//•*■ tertltfftfiv*.
// - rf s H
ZAVY /N MvDOty- - fr/rtfS
p l ,r 5 / a rs"'-At(/R[)F/l 'f/f
&/ C/fy ezqeZ Sa6ut6ct.p
/V/aj/ /Tu/cf fayfa'py, //aS/c/S
Say, seerysYo Je a/*tr?c<-/e'? <*'*■
frrss /e/s /uj/- See // rfr'sfese
fiouse /i er/Oue //s/~ <y Su6err/Se/,s /
TVen'jyiAffK RepOKTER ft* A4*'7 j ,/
4a/ So 7 * n farr jo?"?ro f> turgky
j a fL* *■ *%&>■<* * rm*?*A ,
6oo 7 /o-/e, So Ado So 7C fyj
y/'- O
The Burglary Boom.


f^
PfaTCFAcmn
/rj/ft Cl/CAST Co ytu /v/orr J/r /%z/ jfese do fjt
<yu/Cp Wry TC//A.
PC£nt/st ~ Pro/JJ po/' /posy, J>ui /doy/'ipfydjlourfa./l
/eay'o rff/s food tup/? <Poft P~
■ctrufto uM/nj
innaeu
Constable . y&ty jarry, s/y aA/^pc A/s
you &'///£'/fi/s y/>sp, T/j & <Jay/ypfJyA?s- us/yy
A, nr a CLOP /
° J j/A A/jfia/'.'
7a /asytypyj typ>yi>r Us/yff - Sa</ /z/ryuaye.' * *-* *
’ /it * T’Wty yhf?///> Tfs ~* Lr/yy ** - *
Tf&T 7~ a/cooyj tcjp/jfe a' > sAa/ , y r yq7/y^/*/ / - 7* ///"
||IB
if a-
0 Cw/Mf ' s a
yoccfifr
J S r %Mf- MKfftJ
'lftr tyff*
US ?fe />^ r / /vs<f *
J? nd J/k. 7 r ra'7 c t' 6C/S
;a/ Tfrf '*
J>s///sa far
gayri/^rs'?'
/ - r at a uri/ff
Sk -Jiyes * ~ "
tfo-f forf" f* a < * > ' r "Uajd soteef
* /Mv Wffi
/Mj <s£/&£:
yti/f C/P/Ct MV f
/a matron' air/iitataaff
if To Wfi" /fy 'fa*'?/'* 1 ?
rff/p /fq>s/a//Kfi d?U/?C// .
feaft'//rtf J*f? 2>aP/jy,
Things in General.


•‘HOG'S HEAD” BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
E. B. WHEELER & CO.,
205 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
AtftMark Young's Pier Hotel, Frankstou, near
Mdjbou rue, superior accommodation for. v isitors.
Frtslr and salt-water baths in house, close to‘sea
baths.-. Horses and buggies for hire.
Tlio grandeur of scenery seen from Fml. Wile-
ken’s .Beaepnsfield House Hotel is equal to the
lllue. Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea level.
N.B.—Only two boui's from Melbourne.
DEPOSIT and DISCOUNT
02 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Arcade).
Du] ids its received and Interest allowed as follows
3 Years
12 Months
t.i Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
0 per cent.
AH customary banking business transacted.
.Communications to be addressed to
H. LIKELY, Manager.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
365 George Street, SYDNEY,
AYE Just Opener h Magnificent Lot of New , Fianoa from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Bluthner, Collard, and others
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos a* and : Organa. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
Ajiropos of*the fact that Viscount Dunlo,
eldest son and heir of the Earl of Clancarty, has
married a music-hall-dancer, and is coming to
Australia, The Bulletin may be permitted to re-
mark that His Nibs is coming better provided
than most young noblemen who visit these parts.
He is bringing visible means of support with him.
Floreat Hunlo !
* # *
Lord Carington, the Governor of N.S.W.,
will not “ go down to the vile shades from whence
he sprung—unknelled, uneoffin’d, and unsung.”
He has designed a uniform, but, not wishing to
arrogate to himself all the glory, modestly asserts
that Col. Wardrop, Majors Gascoigne and St.
Quintin, assisted him. His knowledge of tailor-
ing may come in handy some day. The wife and
daughter of a late Governor are in the millinery
business in London—
Shortly after their arrival in London,
bookmakers Joe and Barney Thompson were
entertained by the leading sporting lights at a
Cafe Royal banquet, where the “ King of the
Ring” waxed supremely loyal, and enthusiasti-
cally remarked that the Queen —God bless her !
could find no more dutiful subjects than the people
of Australia. The leviathan bookmaker, Joe, said
this, but it reads like “ Barney ” :
Administration was granted on Monday
week in the Supreme Court, Sydney, in seven
estates, the total value being £369,362.
A Miss Katherine Bates, who'recently
visited Australia, has returned to England and
written a book. She is disgusted with the N.S.W.
Parliament; the members are “ill-bred” and
serve as a terrible warning to the Commons,
“ should the day ever come when mass outweighs
merit.” “ One of the Opposition, an undertaker,”
writes Katherine, “ was specially violent and had
a depressed and. vicious .expre.sAioiq. as though ho
had lived among corpses all his life, aijd hadn’t
been improved by his surroundings. ” This may
pass for smartness in a dull country like England,
but the facts remain that Ninian Melville is not
vicious in appearance, and that he is a paragon of
unobtrusive charity. Sir Henry Parkes, of course,
fascinated Katherine—he is suck a dear old
fellow:—
He is a striking-looking old man, with a thick shook of
hair and a face something between that of a lion and a
bulldog. He has a very low, sweet voice, that can, how-
ever, ring out with great strength when he is rebutting a
charge or protesting against an injustice.
“Bulldog’* is intended as a compliment. If
Katherine had said “ bull-pup ” it wouldn’t have
been complimentary at all. Such are the niceties
of the English language.
* # *
A Queensland attorney had his pocket
picked of his pipe and tobaccb T pouch, the other
day, while interviewing in his cell a prisoner
charged with larceny, but detecting the theft
before leaving the precincts of the gaol he returned
to the dungeon, and, on his client owning up, the
lawyer presented him with a box of matches in
MORAL PHILOSOPHY.
“AFTER ALE,” SAYS A MORAL PHILOSOPHER, “AFTER ALL, IT IS THE
SMALL THINGS OF THIS LIFE THAT TROUBLE US MOST.”
token of his admiration, and volunteered to defend
him on his trial for nothing. • One little touch of
nature re-establishes the Brotherhood of 'Man. *
# ■ ■ *. . # , ‘
The strongattachmcntof the modern maiden
to her improver has been beautifully and touchingly
exemplefied in a Melbourne suburb. A fire had
broken out in a wooden tenement, &c., &c. ( vide'
daily press), and the devastating elements —fire
and water —were making the most of’the occasion,
when a young woman rushed from" the burning
house, attired only in a night-dress'and a bustle":—
And, by the way, a soimambulist Jbbom is
on in Melbourne. Several young and, it, is. to be
hoped for the sake of their discoverers, charming
ladies, have been found walking in the streets in
the silent watches of the darksome night, arrayed
in nothing but virgin purity and brie wlrite linen
garment of brief proportions at either end.
Sydney’s luck is out, as usual; her boom is in
burglars.
*■ # # *
The burglar-scare in Sydney, so artfully
fomented by the daily press and its correspon-
dents, has led some enterprising persons to start
a “City and Suburban Night-watch Company.”
They propose to supply, for so much a week,
‘ ‘ watchmen of .undoubted, character each to
have a short beat and a patent bull’s-eye lantern
and there are to be inspectors of watchmen on foot
and on horseback. The Bulletin predicts that
the company wifi . pay handsomely if hysterical
people will continue to tell fairy-tales about their
adventures with burglars at the same rate as they
are doing just now in Sydney. Valuable assist-
ance could be afforded to the Night-watch Com-
pany by thq daily press, and vice verm; but
whether the company will be, able to arrange with
the “Archimedean” lever for a regular morning
supply of invented burglaries, vespernally sensa-
tionalised, is uncertain ; everything, you see, gets
[flayed out hi time. It would be interesting to
know how the company proposes to secure a supply
of watohmep: Vof;undoubted character.” Ho the
promoters imagine that they can enlist in their
force a smaller percentage of first-class liars than
Inspector-General FoSbery has roped in among the 1
men,in blue?
Grief and hazy grammar seem to be in-
separable. Somebody writes to the Ace concerning
a lamentable clashing of football with funerals in
Kew Cemetery, and says : “You can imagine the
effofct on crushed and wounded feelings -'of l a large
gang.of footballers, just outside the fence, about
-200 yards away, on the otherwise calm surround--
‘ brigs, yelling and howling, and almost drowning,
the clergyman’s voice.” One footballer on your
chest is pretty bad, and a gang of ’em on your ';
> wounded feelings must be very awful. But if they
are yelling and howling on the calm surroundings, .-
200 yards away—why it makes a difference.
v Women of exalted social station are
notoriously fond of making the acquaintance of
fashionable actors, and in their thirst for novel
camaraderie prefer the more outre variety, but a
Melbourne girl of a refined-and-edncated-looking
type, arid dressed in the utmost splendour has
recently beaten the record. She was overheard in
the-Waxworks where Jo-Jo, the dog-faced boy
was: on exhibition in Melbourne, asking .that
canihe-comfterianced youth if he was ever allowed
out, and, if so, would he call at “ this address ”
handing to him a card. This is another instance;
of the old lady who indulged in osculation with
the feminine bos,
> ;• , . ... # * *
yAh-; Anglican clergyman, writing in a
■Sydney daily paper, says that the people armtoo
apathetic and mean to support a clunvh by their
presence and money. “It seems to me,” he adds,
“ that colonials have not the instinct of reverential
worship.” The good clergyman’s complaint then
amounts to this : Young Australia doesn’t trouble
about what he doesn’t believe in.
* * *
Melbourne Herald lias started giving
“Advice to Husbands,” A man can always get
lots of- advice in his misfortune.
* # *
The chief advantage gained by the Sydney
footballers from the visits of various strange foot-
ball teams during the season is the enlargement
of their cursing vocabulary. Of that Port Mel-
bourne team in particular it may be said that
their oaths are very fine and large.
* * #
A poor, miserable worm of a Melbourne
citizen was arrested last week on the insulting-
behaviour charge—good old ‘ ‘ insulting behaviour!”
He came up for judgment, and the pudding-headed
Bench breathed hard at the infamous creature and
inquired as to the exact nature of his offence.
“Weil,” sez Pleeceinan X., “ I told him to move
on, and he said he’d take my number. Then 1
locked him up.” Thereupon the Bench decided
that the crime of being locked up must be expiated
by 10 shillings ora further 24 hours. Let us tootle
the trombone :
A German has eloped with the wife and
seven children of a miner living near Sandhurst
(Vic.). The miner hopes he will return for his
inotheiJ»in-law.
The widow Mead, of Brighton (Vic.), has
covered herself with glory by arising at midnight
and bailing up two men who were ti pping refuse
in the vicinity of her house. She covered them
with a shot-gun, and took their names, but they
gave false ones and the expedition was a failure.
A woman is justified by precedent and custom in
going to any extremes to take a man’s name.
# %
Advertisement from a Melbourne evening
paper:—
r pWO LADIES, 21 and 25, wish to correspond Oen-
* tleman, view to matrimony.
They must want a Mormon.
# *
A number of market-gardeners, near Mel-
bourne, have experienced extraordinary changes
of fortune. Out Mordialloc way, two years ago,
1 hey were so poor they could hardly hang on.
Vegetables went down to ridiculously low prices.
Hundreds of tons of cauliflowers, and other things,
were exported. But the. land-boom came round,
with a miraculous .change. The gardeners were
bought out. Several of them have retired with
fortunes. For instance, wo hear of one who got
£20,000 for a place virtually unsaleable three years
ago. This is in Tommy Bent’s region, but poor
Tom hasn’t come out so well. There is a rent in
the balloon of. the boomers,, but the gardeners
“collared the swag.” Another conspicuous in-
stance of land-boom luck was the case of Richard
Wildridge, a clerk in the Bank of Victoria, living
at Hawthorn. Ho had a big ugly paddock, which
was supposed to be not much good, but a syndicate
swooped, and gave him £40,000, with which he
went off to the Paris Exhibition; but we hear that
he has unluckily died, fortune having come too
late in life, after grinding toil under Money Miller,
the old Bank of Victoria boss. Another instance
was a ramshackle-looking paddock at Camberwell,
left by the father of Hr. Patrick Moloney and
James Moloney, the solicitor. This yielded a
gold-mine sort of price, with a new railway-station
at each end. Hold on to your land. It will turn
up trumps—just when there is six foot got ready
for you.
# # #
Madame Melba has sent from Paris to her
friends Alfred Plumpton and Madame Tasea, of
'Melbourne, fine photographs of herself as Juliette,
in Gounod’s opera, at the Grand Opera House,
Paris, They are displayed in Allan’s window,
Collins-street, inscribed with Madame Melba’s
■ affectionate regards. The girls of the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College (her old school) cluster" round
delighted.
* * *
A trusting Georgetown (Q.) journalist
laments.oyer the unpaid account of a local doctor,
wlio has gone to “ dear old Hingland.” The sting
of this particular injury lies in the fact of the
editor having been one of the number who went to
his farewell banquet and vocalised the assertion
that ho was “a jolly good fellow,” in G sharp and
Have you found, my Lord, your mission ?
You have out a politician;
Could you cut a pair of breeches
To fall faultless o’er the boot ?
You can bow and you can wheedle;
Could you ply a nimble needle ?
You can darn together speeches ;
Could you plan a flunkey’s suit ?
Hurrah ! Australia’s dutiful,
And loves the royalties full well—
The sentiment is beautiful,
Just like the “ sport ” from whom it fell ;
And Joseph Thompson ought to know,
He’s but to make his pocket ring
And shake his banker up to show
We have been'loyal to our “ King.”
The Queen must happy be to know
Tho 'e bonds are not the least bit slacker,
’Twill please Her Gracious when they show.
Like Searle, she has the Joe to back her.
No wonder Joseph loves his Queen—
His heart a fellow-feeling rules,
They both have made up books, we ween,
And don’t both fatten on the fools ?
“VILHELM, I’M SHTUCK!"
"A MEMORY OF HUMPYBONG, THE BRISBANE SUMMER
RESORT.)
“ Go to Humpybong,'’ they said, and we,
Whose blood was like tank-water in a drought,
A lukewarm, ever-lessening quantity,
We —that’s me—whose liver, like a pumpkin,
Grows large by years of service in one chair—
As Auditor-Gen’ral of Estates Gone Bung-
Demanded, with a fever-heat of soul
Of all the masher, pigeon-holeiug crowd,
If Humpybong was not indeed a fraud ?—
Like going'to Rockhampton to get cool ?
But answered they, like slangy larrikins, -
“No fear, cocky ; hump your drum and see.”
And instigated so, I went and saw
A sight which did ray indigestion good ;
For on the beach a jolly party sat,
Among them Schpitzenbaum, the oboeist,
Who, at a concert, blows his hair on end
And strains his windpipe fit to break his neck.
And with the Schpitzenbaum his'a'mple wife,
Dutch-built by birthright and in breadth of beam,
Whose vast proportions, tho’ his only wife,
Gave Schpitz the nickname of mitc/i-marritd man.
Here, within ear-shot of the “ swell ” hotel, ■ y
He planted her within an elbow-chair,
Whose ev’ry inch of space Frau Schpitzenbaum
filled
Like long-felt want, or office pluralist.
But when the luncheon-bell from “ pub.” hard by
Rang out announcement of the welcome hash,
All rushed bald-headed for the dining-room ;
All except Mrs. Schpitz., who could not budge
From out the tight embraces of her chair.
She rose, but with her came the fauteuil—
Like garden-snail with shell upon his back —
And when she cried, “ Look, Vilhelm, I am
shtuck! ,
Come here und dake dis blitzen shair avay,”
And Wilhem came not - then her appetite r '
O’ermast’ring her alarm of ridicule,
She coolly trotted to the table d'hote
And dumped herself before us, chair and all —
Which set the sea-side table in a roar.
And yet they say the bustle’s goirig, j •
We may be wrong, but guess it’s not
The indications all are showing
It must retain the site it|Tgot.
A modest maiden may be seen
In public ways without a, hat,
Or skirts, or boots —in nigh.t-.dress e'en, »
But never, never without that. V
If a Melbourne bobby’s number you should take,
It’s insulting;
He will run you into quod for running’s sake,
Much exulting;
Ten shillings then you pay,
Or in prison you must stay
For a night or for a day—
It’s insulting !
O ! to quarrel with the ruling of a beak,
It’s unlawful—
A case of vulgar impudence and cheek
Very awful;
He doesn’t care a pin
For your innocence or sin,
’Tis enough, they ran you in
It’s unlawful.
Here’s The Bulletin’s advice to any chap
Us consulting—
The upstart in the trappings of a trap,
Much exulting,
Is an object to avoid
When he’s anyways annoyed.
If you hurt him in his proide
It’s insulting.


ţ
No. 1
No. 2
Alcohol
48-32
40.50
Fusel Oil ..
0.08
0-07
Extract and Tannin
•12
o-ii
Water
51-48
,. 53’32
100-00
. 100-00
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT & DISCOUNT BANE,
Beaumont Chambers, KING STREET.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia,
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of - Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted-
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years
12 Months
(I Months
3 Months
9.V per cent,
B.V per cent,
7i- per cent,
51i per cent,
' For the past Three Years a Bonus of One pk it
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates,
Communications from the country will bo
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager,
ROBERTSON’S WHISKY.
£2OO PRIZSES.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
10 of 45 each, 25 42. ami 70 41.
Pamphlets
from lire Affonts, A.I-.X-.T Sz 00.,
, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
.. , rrhe newspaper-man now appeals to the
other fellows who joined in the song to show the
courage of their opinions by paying up the amount
due. # # *
A foreigner sued his wife to recover £30 —
which he said she had got from him under false pre-
+prices —in a Melbourne court the o-her. day. He
was laughed out of court. His wife had acquainted
herself with the customs of the country sooner than
he had. That was all. # #
Just 60 years ago the 21b. loaf in Sydney
was 2s. # #
Joe Thompson complains that all the Aus-
tralian intelligence he can see in the
nailers is that it is raining—news addressed, of
course to Jumbuokdom. Here you are again,
the old moral for Imperial Federation, it is
Reigning in England, too.
* #»•/'' '>•
When Evangelist Grattan Guinness was in
Melbourne an orthodox correspondent of Symes’
Liberator wrote, aSking Symes To please notice
how radiantly happy Guninpss looked, while he
(Symes) always looked so ipiserable. Ihe next
Liberator retaliated with a request for the cor-
respondent to turn up his Bible and note that the
Saviour was much more like Symes than Guinness.
“ Besides ” added Symes, “Dr.- Guinness is going
to marry a young lady with £20,000 Now, if I
were going to marry a young lady with £20,000 I
would look simply radiant.”
1 * * * -|| *
The champion mean man lives at Timaru
(N 2e). He stole a tombstone, obliterated the
name of the defunct for whom it was first in-
tended, substituted another ,name and then erected
it over certain remains in the local bone-yard.
# * *
A Ballarat (Vic.) correspondent, writing to
The Bulletin on the sudden death of a young
lady at a ball recently held there, denounces in one
indignant sweep all the other guests who remained
and danced after the sad incident. Some of them
were under the impression that it was only a faint-
ing-fit, but a great many knew the truth. The
host appears to have been too matter-of-fact to
alarm his guests; and the writer’s adjectives are
but the natural outcome of a view taken from the
sentimental standpoint. Boiled down for analysis
there is nothing but the sentiment left for treat-
ment, and those who had none of it are amenable
only to the dictates of such taste as may have been
transmitted by descent or provided along with the
customary spoon and fork by their godfathers and
mothers. Quite recently, the writer a
funeral procession in Broadway, New York. _ The
handsome silver-mounted coffin was almost hidden
by wreaths of costly flowers, and the head of the
chief (and almost only) mourner appeared at the
window of the leading carriage, ornamented with
a huge cigar. In Australia, the relic of an ancient
courtesy—more honoured in the breach than in the
observance—bares the head of the passer-by when
he meets a funeral. Personal idiosyncrasies and
geographical accidents combine to make the un-
written laws which social conventionality takes to
its petrified bosom, and the humbug, which is now
and ever shall be, distributes them for individual
consumption.
* * *
They are always adulterating—-these
peerage people. A last week’s cable tells us how
Lady Acton won’t act on the square, and so she
has to go and drown herself in the King of
Bavaria’s lake. Then a German sentimentalist
nobleman, who has been acting Lothario with
Lady Acton, goes and shoots himself —
What nice poetry this is—and how romantic the in-
cident commemorated! Austrian Prince Rudolph
and Baroness Yetschera over again. Good Lord
Acton is a literary man, something like one of
Gulliver’s Laputans, who used to be so absorbed
in their investigations of Strulbugism that their
wives did all sorts of things under their noses.
Lord Acton writes in the Nineteenth Century.
Lady Acton smiles on a good, swanking, red-
whiskered German baron. This is always the way.
# # *
Sydney pawnbrokers say that the Chinkies
are about their best customers. It is no unoom-
mon thing for one of them to pawn his watch and
redeem it within fifteen minutes, thus paying a
month’s interest for the advance.
# * *
Some few years ago a little Melbourne bar-
maid married, much to the disgust of masherdom,
an obscure lawyer’s clerk. Her husband has now
dropped into £25,000 a year through the death of
his uncle in Scotland. A draft for £lO,OOO accom-
panied the letter in which the solicitors formally
told him of his good fortune.
* * *
It is interesting to learn, on the authority
of the eminent Mr. Larry Foley, that Canova’s
“ Boxers,” judging from their respective attitudes,
couldn’t spar a bit.
* * *
From the London Standard, but adapted
for use in the “ colonies ” ;
AN AWKWARD REFERENCE.
Editor Standard,— Sir,— lt is high time to protest
against the hahit of some well-meaning hut ignorant
people of introducing texts of Scripture into notices of
deaths, &o. In the Standard of to-day I see a memonam
notice of a death, and after it the words, “The Lord had
need of him.” Did the writer remember that this was
said of an ass?—Yours, &c., .
For pure irony what could excel the foregoing ?
# * *
The much-vaunted Savage Club, so long
held up before the eyes of Australians as one
of the glories of British literature, is now de-
scribed as “an unlicensed pot-house making its
profit out of much indifferent spirits to pay for
the loss on its service as a seventh-rate restaurant. ”
By the way, the Lotus Club, of New York, has
lately cut away its affiliation, and will have no
more “ Savages,” as such, within its doors.
ifc #
Ah You drove his cart oyer a Mount
Morgan stump, broke his ankle, tried to mend it
himself on Chinese principles, and died. A Rock-
Hampton doctor post~viovtcwicd and reported :
“ The whole limb gangrened up to the knee, the
foot hanging by tendons,” and so on. Miss Ah
You, a daughter of the defunct Chow, testified to
having poulticed her parent under direction of
another Chow, a doctor, with a chicken-salad
composed of young chickens-pounded up with
castor-oil roots. Hi Yah ! And- the ‘ ‘ Eulopean ”
man laughs at the treatment, but, nevertheless,
carries a potato in his pocket to stave otf rheuma-
tism, and hangs a bit of tin round his neck as a
gage of defiance to the devil.
* # *
The Murrumbidgee Turf Club, once the pride
and glory of Riverma, is about holding a bazaar
in aid of its funds. We expect next to hear of the
local clergymen preaching charity-sermons in its
behalf.
# * *
That advertising humbug, the Marquis De
Leuville, has backed up his gift of a gold medal to
Captain Calliope Kane with a “hurricane-song,”
which has been set to music and published in Lon-
don as proof that Britannia is still in the wave
business. Among other eccentric statements the
Markis avers that: —
“ Now there is joy from orchard to lane,
And the lassies will hie to the shore ;
Aye! brimful of love to greet Captain Kane
When he lands from the far Samoa ! ”
A moist and cruel prospect is here held out for the
poor skipper. Some of that love must slop over,
and the gallant Kane had better tackle another
hurricane and learn the worst at once. Markises
can’t Write poetry.
* # *
In Melbourne, the other day, some cynical
and degraded person put up an unholy sell on
divers large, pompous, public persons who love
their Queen and are always willing to throw their
t
AN ACCEPTED CRITICISM.
PROFESSIONAL FRIEND: “NOT HALF BAD AS A BIT OF PAINTING, BUT
RATHER FAULTY IN COMPOSITION; TOO ONE-SIDED. I’D THROW
IN SOMETHING IN THE RIGHT-HAND CORNER TO BALANCE THE
PICTURE AND AS SOMETHING OF INTEREST FOR THE EYE TO
REST UPON AT THAT POINT.”
GIFTED AMATEUR TUBBS: “YOU ARE QUITE RIGHT; I SHALL PUT MY
NAME THERE!”
aggressive obesity and social importance into any
endeavour to draw closer those bonds which bind
us to the dear old mother country. These distin-
guished fat men of standing each received a
printed form calling upon them, in the name of
their beloved Imperial sympathies, to meet and
congregate together in the local down Hall, to
take into consideration the best means of securing
the services of the Most Noble, the Marquis of
Lome as Governor of this colony ’’—and generally
to bow themselves lowly before the altar of St.
Jingo. The invitation further intimated that-the
presence of a daughter of Her Most Gracious
Majesty in our midst would strengthen “those
ties ” and be a “ refining influence of high social
value,” and that, as the. “ Most Noble Marquis ’»
was naturally averse to accepting the position, by
reason of the smallness of the salary, it was pro-
posed to overcome the difficulty by private sub-
scription, and so confer an inestimable boon in the
shape of Lome and Louise on the colony. Some of
the recipients of this blatant document immediately
girded up their superfluous adiposity in white vest,
and repaired to the rendezvous —only to find that
their holiest sentiments and awful conservative
orandeur had been trampled on by a vulgar person
unknown. And then they broke down in a body,
and said “ Damn ! ” The daily papera seem to
think it was really a very shocking affair. You
can’t be a Tory and a humorist, too. “ Look at
Disraeli! ” How Dizzy must have sniggered at
the Royal family !
# * *
The “confidential” circular aforesaid is
the' best Melbourne joke of these latter days. It
found its way into the Age office, and was pub-
fished in all seriousness by that slap-dash journal.
The circular purported to come from the Town
Hall, and asked people to meet in the Mayor’s
room. The wags who drew up this wicked docu-
ment rather weakened its effect by referring to
Borne as “His Royal Highness,” but the list of
gentlemen who had announced their intention of
being present contained some splendid touches of
humour. Sir Benjamin and his overpowering
Town Clerk, Fitzgibbon, were set down as 0.8.’5,
and the Hon. M. H. Davies got the noble order of
the Y.M.C.A. Even that joke didn’t stick out
far enough to catch the eye of the Age editor, or
else he wouldn’t see, and let the thing go in just
as a jar for the Argus.
# # *
There is a youngster in Warrnambool
(Vic.) whose name is Murphy, and who is 14years
of ao-e, and Oft. 6in. in height. Warrnambool was
always remarkable for its big “Murphies. ihe
parents of this child were fined the other day for
not sending him to school. _ They probably kept
him away out of consideration for the feelings of
the young lady-teacher, who is four foot ten, and
finds she cannot lead him out by the ear with be-
coming dignity.
# # *
The composer of “Nancy Lee " and “ The
Blue Alsatian Mountains” must, according to
what we see in the papers, be much indebted to
his sister-in-law, Mrs. _ Fly-paper Maybrick, who is
supposed to have poisoned his brother, tor ti e
wealth of advertisement her eccentricities have
procured for him. Even the fly-papers might hai e
failed in sheeting home the charge to her, had she
refrained from putting her love on paper. ihe
number of; women who give themselves away when
they get hold of a pen is a strong argument either
for or against compulsory education. They don't
all write legibly, they can’t spell, and they won’t
punctuate, but they turn all their little secrets
loose on a sheet of paper, and the Law comes
along and burgles somebody for all he is worthy or
hangs something by the neck till it is dead. Fly-
papers in soup are wicked and unpalatable, but
little pink notes are a breach of the moral law,
and the-very worst kind of wrong-headed foolish-
ness.
* * *
Extract from letter written by Sydney
agent to his principal at MelbourneSmiffkins,
your solicitor, has succeeded in getting £IGO out
of Jobling on your account. Kindly instruct me,
now, how to collect the money from Smiffkins.”
* * *
The Sydney City Council are to expend
£l5O in erecting a marble tablet commemorating
the laying of the foundation-stone of the Cen-
tennial Hall. Which strikes one as a piece of
wanton extravagance. The Hall commemorates
itself while it stands, and if it doesn’t stand, why
the tablet will fall with it.
# * *
Mayor Harris has decided to open Sydney
Centennial Hall on 13th November. “In addition
to balls and jubilations of the moment, festivities
will be extended over the following week or ten-
days on a scale transcending those of the Centen-
nial last year.” So that Mayor Harris is__ou a
tolerably big occasion coming right out of his
shell. Hitherto he has refrained, at all events
officially, from making the Town Hall into a
public-house, and has devoted Iris whole energies
to the mending of municipal ways and the econo-
mising of public money, thereby earning the
respect of the democrats who are the backbone of
the community, and the contempt of all the
“ jolly good fellows ” who consider free lunches
the chief end of man.
* # *
We have seen women crying over die
grievous parting of friends departing from Sydney
by the Gosford boat, and thought it could never
be beaten for absurdity. But it can. On bunday
week the Reverend Vance bade farewell to his-
congregation, Holy Trinity Church, Kew, near
Melbourne. He is only going for a trip to king-
land to enjoy himself. Yet at the evening ser-
vice he positively broke down ; yes, he did. His
utterances choked him. What happened I The
ladies in the congregation began to cry like good
’uns. Some were seized, with hysterics ! ihey
kicked their heels on the floor. The local doctor
had to come rushing, in and treat them. this
beats Pickwick, where Dr. Bob Sawyer (late
Nockemorf) is summoned out of church in the
pressure of business. Oh, the cunning of these
hysterics !
The annual drawing of the prizes in con-
nection with Robertson’s whisky took place in the.
New Masonic Hall, Castlereagh-street, on Wednes-
day, 26th June, under the management of Mr.
John Chisholm, when a luncheon, of the most
recherche description, was provided by Messrs.
Robertson’s agents—Messrs. Allt and Co.—to a
great number of friends, the chair being taken
by Mr. Tulloh, the energetic managing
director of that enterprising firm. The event,
as usual, was characterised by a good deal of
merriment, which is invariably associated with
the free use of this now famous whisky, Mr.
Tulloh expressed the pleasure it gave him to be
able to state that, although during the year 1888
there had been much keener competition than in
any preceding year, the consumption of Robert-
son’s whisky was 22,000 cases, and only 3000
below that of 1887, which, in itself, is sufficient
to show that it is able to hold its own.
Messrs. Robertson are determined to maintain
the high character for which their whisky
has been noted, and the consumers can always
rely upon getting the genuine article. Ihe follow-
ing analysis by Mr. W. A. Dixon, the welhknown
analytical chemist, will show_ the ingredients of
this favourite whisky and its immunity from
fusel oil: —
Technical College Laboratory,
Sydney, 10th June, ’B7.
Messrs. Allt and Co.-Gentlemen,—The following are
the analyses of the two samples of Robertson s whisky
sent: —
These are both good whiskies.—l remain yours truly,
W. A. Dixon, b.I.CJ., r.Ub.
With my sentimentalibus Lachrymarorunt,
Pathos and bathos delightful to see
Chop and change hands d let mode Germanoi'um,
Hey diddle, ho diddle, pop tweedle dec !
The Grain of Salt.
A lady finding a beggar-boy at her door gave an
a meal of coffee, meat, and bread and butter,
which he sat down in the area to eat. A moment
afterward, however, he rapped beseechingly at the
door again, and, on its being opened, remarked
with his hand upon his heart, “If I had but a
little salt I should be perfectly happy.”
Of course he got the salt.
Human nature is always lacking something.
Oftentimes it were better off without rts wishes,
yet it is universally conceded that no permanent
enjoyment can be had without the savor of health,
which keeps good cheer fresh and preserves and
sweetens life for the future.
The great, ruddy farmer pines because he has
not won fame or position. The famous man longs
for the lusty health of the sturdy farmer.
The grain of salt is wanting.
How to secure and retain the savor of health in
the midst of this rushing, nervous, over-worked
generation is a problem worthy of our closest
attention. It cannot be done with stimulants,
which but spur on the over-worked nerves to fresh
efforts, only to leave them more jaded and
shattered. Nor with narcotics, which temporarily
soothe, but to create an unnatural appetite, the
terrors of which a De Quincy has so graphically
portrayed, _
It may be asked, what is the cause of this
extreme nervousness, lack of appetite, lung trouble,
deficient heart action, failing eye-sight, apoplectics!
tendency, etc. ? We reply, poisoned blood, caused
by diseased kidneys, and the troubles indicated
are, after all, but symptoms of advanced Kidney
Disease, which is but another name for Bright’s
Disease. Unless remedied there will be a_.com-
plete breaking down of the great blood-purifying
organs, the kidneys, and they will be excreted,
piece meal, through the urine.
' Now, in the spring of the year, owing to the
extra work which has been put upon the Kidneys
and Liver, through a meat diet during the winter
months, these symptoms are more pronounced,
and the danger to the patient correspondingly
increased. It is therefore imperative that the
poisoned blood be eradicated, and that the Kid-
neys be put in complete health, which can be
speedily and effectually accomplished by the use
of Warner’s Safe Cure, a tried and proved specific
in hundreds of thousands of cases. .
Pursuing the path we have marked out you will
possess the salt of content, without which life s
banquet is “flat, stale and unprofitable.”


Amusements.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Eignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of the Great Popular Drama,
INT THE
Box Ollice at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QSITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
THE REIGNING ATTRACTION.
J case ip la’s Sweetlieart,
BY
Robert Buchanan, Author of Sophia, &c.,
interpreted by the
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company.
The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Mr. Robert Brough.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
V|IHEATRE ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
COMPLETE and BRILLIANT SUCCESS
OP
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD.
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
New opera house,
King and York Streets.
Lessee and Manager Sir. John Solomon.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. John Solomon’s English and Comic Opera
Company, under the Musical Direction of
Mr H. T. HARRISON.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
of
M ./*. JE=L X T 3NT
Produced under the personal direction of
MR. HENRY BRACY.
POPULAR PRICES:
Dress C rcl», 35.; Orchestra Stalls, 3s. : Stalls,
2s. ; Pit, Is.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s.
JOE DAYIS Business Manages.
JJONDI AQUARIUM.
The most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS ok AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff Daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, (id. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d.
QYCLORAMA.
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama!
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama!
Opjrosite Railway Station.
OPEN DAILY ... Prom 10 a.m. to 10 r.M.
SUNDAYS, 3 to 10 p.m.
Admission, Two Shillings ; Children, One Shilling.
Schools of 25 and upwards admitted at a reduction
of 25 per cent.
“Every detail is true to the life.”
A Gettysburg Veteran.
CYCLORAMA.
AT THE AUSTRALIAN WAXWORKS,
558 Gkorgk Street, Sydney
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Under the Management of Mr. FRANK M.
CLARK.
SATURDAY NEXT, July 27th, 1889,
Grand Opening Reception of
> Jo-Jo,
The Russian Dog-Faced Boy. A HUMAN
WITH A CANINE HEAD.
Physiologists astounded. Darwinians puzzled.
Engaged by Mr. Frank M. Clark during his
recent tour round the world, from P. T. Barnum,
at an enormous expense. JO-JO will hold recep-
tions continually from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.
ADMISSION, One Shilling.
In connexion with JO-JO many other Famous
Freaks will be exhibited in addition to
ÜBINI’S PERFORMING FLEAS,
A Most Marvellous Exhibition, from the Crystal
Palace, London.
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL
ASSOCIATION OF QUEENSLAND.
A.nxiual Exhibitio n.
1889
BOWEN PARK, BRISBANE.
August 20, 21, 22, 23, and 24.
Judging Day: TUESDAY, 20th August.
Opening Day : WEDNESDAY, 21st August.
IN addition to the Valuable Prizes given by the
Association, a large number of Special Prizes
have been donated for Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs,
Poultry, and Farm and Dairy Produce.
Members Tickets (price £1 Is.), Prize Schedules,
and all information promptly forwarded on appli-
cation to
ERNEST A. SMITH, Secretary,
156 Elizabeth-street. Brisbane.
Port Jackson Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
John Walker
Proprietor.
Under entirely New Managemen Only
Best of Liquors Supplied.
Amusements.
JJ LITE SKATING RINK.
This Rink has the reputation of being
Best-conducted Rink in the Australian Colonies,
Here you are sure to meet the elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
Admission - - - One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets;
Gentlemen, 455.; Ladies, 40s. Season Skate Checks
for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen, 155.;
Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever Clamp
Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate Ticket
included, Gentlemen, 355. ; Ladies, 30s. Roller-
boaring, 15s. extra ; Ball-bearings, £4 extra.
Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair ; wholesale, 17s. 6d.
Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station every five
minutes for the rink ; patrons' carried free.
Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bedford-
street, opposite the Rink.
jyjETROPOLITAN SKATING RINK,
Harris Street, Ultimo.
Nearest Rink to Redfern Railway Station.
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony. "SSI
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a.m. - Ladies and Children only: Admis-
sion TREE; Skates, (id.
2.30 to 5 p.m. —Admission ; Ladies, 6d., Skates,
6d.; Gentlemen, Is., Skates, Cd.
7.30 to 10 p.m.—Admission to all, Is.; Skates, Gd.
LO O K 011 T
FOR
Future Novelties.
FLOORAGE FREE.
Pykmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
Lessee and Manager ... JOHN R. GEE.
■gJOSPITAL BAZAAR and VILLAGE FAIR
Under the patronage of Lord and Lady Carington,
—IX—
Aid of the City and Suburban Hospitals.
EXHIBITION BUILDING. Prince Alfred Park.
Opening Day, September, 1889.
President, Lady Martin ; Vice-Presidents, Lady
Barley, Lady Allen, Mrs. Belisario, and Mr.
Janies Devlin; Honorary Treasurers, Alfred Allen,
Esq., M.L.A., John Street, Esq., M.L.A., andF.
B. Lark, Esq.
The Honorary Secretaries, Town Hall, would bo
very pleased to have the sympathy and support of
the general public and to receive names of persons
willing to assist by miscellaneous Gifts, however
small, either in Paintings, Photographs, Books
(new or second-hand), Perfumery or Cigarettes,
any hand-painted articles, Plain or Fancy Needle-
work, Presents of Bolls, &c. Prizes for the “Art-
Union ’’and Gifts _ for the above to be forwarded
addressed “ Hospital Bazaar and Village Fair,”
care of Miss M‘Kay, Sydney Hospital, Macquarie-
street, who has kindly granted us storage room.
Promises of help with Flowers, Ferns, &c., Fruit,
Home-made Preserves, Confectionery, Cakes, or
to Bairy and Refreshment Stalls, please communi-
cate with
MRS. ALFRED ALLEN, 1
MISS JULIA BELISARIO, /
Town Hall, Sydney.
Hon.
Secs.
Miscellaneous.
THE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME.
£lOOO for 10s. 6d.
The Sandhurst Mechanics’ Institute
Art Union.
First Prize, £lOOO ; Second Prize, £5OO •
Third Prize, £2OO.
597 Other Prizes, Total Value, £2705.
The DRAWING will positively take place at
SANDHURST, on 31st July next.
Remember, a FORTUNE for 10s. (kl.
Tickets, 10s. (id., may be had from the general
agents, Messrs. CRAIG and AITKEN, George-
street, Sydney, or NICHOLSON and CO.’S,
King and George streets; J. Kirby, J. W. M.
Clarke, Booksellers, George-street; H. Wallace,
496 George-street; Priddy and Co., George-street,
Brickfield Hill; T. C. Drew, 256 Pitt-street;
Alexander and Farrow, Levy and Scott, Tobac-
conist, Oxford-street; and at Newcastle, from A.
D. Robertson, Tobacconist, or from
J. H. CURNOW, Secretary, Sandhurst.
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co..
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
ReaH ! Read ! Read !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin's well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland).
Sole Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins st., Melbourne
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Tasmanian: FitzgeralcUßros., George-street, Launceston.
Miscellaneous.
S. FREEMAN A SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDERS,
jjricnt gquare glue,
Extract of Soap,
Ipnegcir, ||lacking,
&c., &c., &c.
Steam Works and Brewery :
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
Shipping.
D
IRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth
Aw. 9 lAg. 12
Aug. 23'Ag. 26
IS Oct 21
* Not calling at Colombo.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked .through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
Eor all information apply at the Company’i
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRAOHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamers.
Commander.
YARRA .. Povdenot
OCEANIEN .. Dicker. .
SYDNEY .. Pellegrin
[Leave Sydney] Leave Mel-
[at 11 a.in. [bourne! p.m
July 25 ~ July 28
iAug.2s .. Aug. 28
Sept. 25 .. Sept. 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B. —Passengers’luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1803.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):
Steamer.
Commander.
Leave | Leave ! «^ e ? v -j
Sydney] Mel- | A | e^' de
noon, j bourne. I £ ho £
Nurnberg
Habsburg
Sailer
1889. [ 1889. 1889.
jH. Englebart. Aug. 14[Aug. 171 Aug. 20
.G. Thumann.. [Sept. 11 Sept. 14jSept. 17
. |C. Thalenhorst Oct. 9 Oct. lllOct. 17
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment- of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
FOR SALE.— Two Grand Water Erontages
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Furniture, &c.
NEW T 0 N AND LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
Bedroom suites, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAM B,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O'CONNELL STREETS.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.—-The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Wash,stand,
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LANB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUIT MS, fashi.mabl... ~a r ly
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door ; Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and r iwo Cane-Seated Chairs, 10 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
t
Cl ANYAS FOLDING
J COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Gd.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING- TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ER OR WHITE BAMBOO .HANDS.
x 8, 8 x 8, 9xB, 10 x 8, 12 x 8, at low prices.
ţ
Austrian bent-
wood
FUKNI T U R E.
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulhys and cord, (i x 8, (is. (id.; 8 \ 8,
95.; 9x 8,9 s. (id.; 10 xB, 10s. (id.; 12 xB, 12s. (id.;
12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
J
■w-
meriganpatent
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Yeky Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ť
OAN VAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shi) (board and
Verandah,
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
(“ AWN and PARK SEATS, Oft. long. Rustic
I i Cast-iron Standards, 14s. Gd. each. Newton
and Lamb.
pi ARDEN SEATS, IDs. Verandah Chairs.
VJT Indian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB.
VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
Ml) 155.; and variety of Chairs, from 12s.
Gd., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, aU sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
EWTON AND LA MD.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERER.
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
AND


Everybody says—and what everybody says must he true
that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Rou.kk, Elour is the
best, in the market.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
9(i Bathnrst-street, Sydney.
Department of Mines and Works,
Brisbane, loth June, 1889.
TO ARCHITECTS.
NEW MUSEUM, BRISBANE.
COMPETITIVE DESIGNS are invited from
Arehi ects for the New Museum proposed to
be erected in Brisbane, to bo sent in on or before
Ist September next, addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Public Works, Brisbane. First prize,
£2oo ; second prize, £lOO ; third prize, £5O.
Conditions, with Plan and Levels of Ground,
can be obtained on application at this Office, or at
tlie Public Works Offices, Sydney, Melbourne,
and Adelaide.
R. ROBERTSON,
Acting Under-Secretary.
JC
ei
o
m
/Uents .
DELISSAk PHILLIPS
3& 5 Barrack Street.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
ECU SALE. —A Quantity of Second-hand
Newspaper Type in Case and Bulk. For
particulars apply to the Printer, Bulletin office.
£lOO to Nothing!
AT THE
CHICAGO CIGAR STORE,
348 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Few Doors from G.P.0.)
Each Subscriber on our ss. Consultations select-
ing a Placed Horse or Man will be entitled to
select a Double Melbourne and Caulfield Cup,
for which events we will lay £lOO to Nothing.
Our Dividends are the Largest in Sydney.
ss. CAEEINGTON HANDICAP ss.
F. Martineer ... ••• £5 11 0
T. Bishop 13 h
Our Consultations are carried on in a most legiti-
mate manner, and we feel sure by so doing we
shall gain the public patronage.
Books Open on Hurdle and Steeple at Randwick,
V.R.C. G.N. Hurdle and Steeple, Derby and tup;
and all the forthcoming events.
Now Open: Consultations on Moorefield Races.
We have the Finest Stock of
Imported Havannah Cigars and Tobacco.
Note the Address:
LEW BRITTON,
348 George St., Sydney
(Few Doors from G.P.0.)
WALTER HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
JOHIT buckham,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Baker’s Cart Covers, Horse Rugs, Nose Bags,
Oiled Loin Cloths, Cab Aprons. Send to or call at
JOHN BUCKHAM,
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
C 8 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY,
IF. SHBOEDER 1
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS'
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men's Hacks.
T
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
July 23, 1889.
SENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions see Government Gazette.
Dates to which
| Tenders
can be received
I at this office.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Cottage for Farm Attendant, |
Hospital for the Insane, Callani
Park
Roofing Hospital for the Insane,
Alterations, Lockup Gaol, Casino J Wednesday,
Repairs,&c.,Training-ship,Vernon July 31,
Bridge, Pound Creek, Tumberumba at 11 o'clock.
Erection of Shed at Wharf, Tweed
River Heads, and Placing Piles'
(fresh tenders). I
Repairs, Fencing, &c., Post and
Telegraph Office, Booligal
Additions, &c., Bailiff’s Cottage,
Domain
Bridge, Murrumbidgee River, at
Narrandera
Bridge, Apsley River, Fitzroy-
street, Walcha
Erection of Dispensary, Hospital
for Insane, Parramatta
Additions Gaol, West Kempsey
(fresh tenders)
Additions Gaol, Wollongong
Hand Punt, Uriarra Ferry, Mur
rnmbidgee River
Supply and Erection of Fencing at
Prospect
Construction of Dwarf Wall and
Iron Railing, Centennial Park
Erection of Dormitory, Training
Ship Vernon
Wednesday,
August 14,
at 11 o’clock,
Bridge, Wxlcannia, Darling River,
Ironwork. Cont. No. 1 (time!
extended)
Bridge, Darling River, at Wilcan- Wednesday,
nia (erection). —Cont. JNo. ~.| August 28,
(Time extended) ! ;l t 11 o’clock.
Mortuary Hospital for the Insane, j
Newcastle j
Additions Wingham Post and'
Telegraph Office (fresh tenders) |
Supply ’and" Erection of Pumping Wednesday,
Engines, North Shore (contract' Nov. (>,
No. 56) lat 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
“What is Home without a Picture?”
X. BEEUASCOUI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
Cleaver's
Transparent
&oap
Best & Cheapest
Bar None!!
£lOOO FOR 10s. 6d
CB.AIG- & AITKEN, 680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
Have been appointed General Agents for the
Sandhurst Monster Art Union.
First P*rize, £1000; Second., £500; Tliird, £2OO
IN ALL, 600 PRIZES, VALUED .£2705.
SBiIUO x FOR. x TICKETS x AT x OUXTCIE!
To be Drawn at Sandhurst on 31st July.
See “Daily Telegraph,” “Evening News,” and other portions of this paper.
4,000
‘ A.dLam Bede’s ”
Onc-tenth of “ Adam Bede's ” Commission will be handed to the Proprietors of The Bulletin to be publicly
devoted to various charitable objects. The following is the list of events Now Open.
S FttXISTG- HANDICAP,
Run at Randwick, 24th August, 188!).
‘m SUBSCRIBERS at TEN (10sA SHILLINGS EACH. 8^"
Two Tickets for 2 )s. Every £1 invested has a chance of drawing Six Separate Prizes.
4,000
60 E XTB.A CASH FRIZES ! 60
4,000 at 10s. each, Hawkksbdry Handicap.
20.000 at 10s. each, Metropolitan Stakes.
20.000 at 10s. each, Caulfield Cup.
ALSO OPEN
Melbourne Cup,
1 50,000 at £1 each.
{ 20,000 at 10s. each.
V 4,000 at 10s. each.
Programmes containing full particulars of the division of prizes and method of drawing willingly sent on applica-
tion. The members of the Press are always invited to all drawings. The rapid increase of “Adam Bede’s” business
is proof of the honest manner in which his Consultations are conducted.
1 All Subset ihors must Register their letters to ensure safe delivery, and must enclose two addressed
envelopes and stamps for reply and result, and add Is. exchange to cheques.
addhkb»-“ ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. ABBOTT,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY.
The names of the Drawers
of the ticket, until
of Horses will on no account whatever be divulged by “ Adam Bede,” except to the holder
after the races have been run. THE ONLY FAIR WAY OP DRAWING.
Jawson
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00„
(Opposite G.P O.)
108 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
p
1
R
F
E
C
T
1
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
The Suicide.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Away from my lot loathed and hated,
Away from all doubtmgs of God,
Away from the woman twas fated
That I with her sorrows bo mated,
My back with her’s bared to the rod-
Away from the slums we have trod.
A wav from the children that hunger
And speak a reproach with their eyes,
A.way from the harsh labour-mongei,
Away from the cold labour-spies—
From earth’s hell of anguish and lies.
Away from the hearth chill and tireless,
Away from the home without bread,
A wav to a world that shall tire less, ,
Where man’s sweat and blood shall be Inrelcss,
Where masters, like serfs, shall be dead
To the death-realm which none but fools dread.
F.J.B.
Old proverb : “ Young men believe old
men to lie fools, but old men know 'young men to
be fools ” They are both right! Young men are
fools because they are young, i.e., they have
everything but experience. Old men are fools
because they are old, i.e., they have experience
but nothing else.
Edmund Yates wrote that “it was a
pleasant peculiarity of Thackeray’s to make semi-
vd’e 1 but unmistakeable allusions in Ins books to
pe’ sons at the tinie obnoxious to him.” Edmund
Vat s himself, for instance, is supposed to figure
as “ray dear young literary friend, George Car-
bao-p >' Thackeray, according to a writer m the
May number of Temple Bar, is himself said to
have once remarked, ‘‘ I don’t know where I got
so many wicked people. 1 have never mot them
in real life,”
A domestic tragedy of considerable thrill
was lost to the Melbourne evening papers not
more than a fortnight back, in consequence of its
not coming off. For some time past an agitated
Benedict, who circulates in good society, and
figures largely in business centres, had entertained
o-risly suspicions regarding the wife of his bosom,
who,' although somewhat disfigured by a hirsute
growth on her chin that harrows up her feelings
and makes her wish herself shaved, is rather
handsome, and has taking ways and a beguiling
smile. Her changed demeanor and mysterious
comings and goings perplexed her lord, and he
took to moody melancholy and fits of abstraction,
and he would set himself aside, and gnaw his
whiskers, and concoct horrid plots against a tall,
dark, foreign individual, name unknown, in whose
gore he had resolved to imbrue bis bauds at an
early date. Having, in disguise and in a milk-cart,
followed bis wife two or three times to the house
of tills saturnine and elongated stranger, he, at
length, determined that the tragedy must culminate
fatally without further delay ; so, taking some
primed firearms in his pocket, and a male relative
into his confidence, he again followed his wife to
the establishment of the enchanter. The lady
knocked, and was admitted as usual, and, after
walking about a while, and working bis feelings
up to a proper pitch of animal ferocity, her
righteously indignant husband also knocked. The
door was opened by a girl, and, forcing himself
into the hall, the husband demanded to be in-
troduced to the presence of the lady who had just
entered. He was introduced with cheerful alacrity,
and burst into the room in a furious state of
excitement, fingering his weapons and thirsting
for hot blood, only to discover his wife reclining
on a chair, whilst the tall, dark Lothario from a
foreign shore performed on her chin with some
mysterious instruments. Loud remarks, rash
recriminations, and mild hysterics, ensued, and
then came the explanations. Mons. Whatsisname
was an electrician, Mrs. Blank had been recom-
mended to go to him by several lady friends, his
forte was killing surplus hair, and he was engaged
in that laudable undertaking when interrupted by
the heated remarks and intemperate gestures of
his patient’s husband. Mrs. Blank had hoped to
give her husband a pleasant surprise by bursting
on his startled gaze within a few weeks, minus
her whiskers. Ten minutes later Blank was home
iu his own back-yard, kicking himself, and
bribing a small boy to throw eggs at his head.
Mr. Reischek, who, until recently, held
an appoinment as naturalist under the N.Z.
Government, shortly before his departure for
England published a little sixpenny book, entitled
“ Caesar, the Wonderful Dog.” A perusal of this
work leads us to the belief that if its author turned
hisi attention to fiction he would make a hit of the
largest size. If we are wrong in this surmise-
why, then, Caesar was a wonderful dog, and no
mistake about it. Mr. Reischek relates, amongst
other things, how, when camped among the
Southern Alps of N.Z., on one occasion he fell ill.
Then, for the first time, he realised how helpless
he was up there amid the snow and ice. There
was no house near, no human creature, and
the nearest doctor was in Timaru, fifty
miles or more distant. But there was Caesar,
faithful Caesar, who, crouched by the bed-
side of his master, was shedding tears of sym-
pathy, while his tail —Caesar’s tail, of course—beat
a melancholy tattoo on the floor of the hut. Poor
Reischek was so weak that he could not take his
gnu, as usual, and hunt for something nice for
dinner. Suddenly he bethought himself of Caesar.
“Caesar,” he said, “go out and get me a bird.”
The affectionate animal, after licking the hand of
his master, instantly set forth to do his bidding.
In twenty minutes he was hack with a bird in his
mouth, which he laid on his master’s bed and then
softly retired—to await orders as to building afire,
probably. “Oh, Caesar!” exclaimed the sick
naturalist as he examined the prey, “this is no
good; I can’t make soup of him. Co out and get
me a parrot.” Caesar barked reproachfully as if
to say: “If you wanted a parrot why didn’t you say
so,” but off he went again, to return this time
with a plump parrot. After that Reischek used
to send him out every morning to hunt for tucker,
and he never again made a mistake. This story
reminds us of another, told by a Sydney lady, if
anything even more remarkable. She had a
spaniel once, of which she was very fond. But
one day the dog annoyed her exceedingly, and she
beat him severely. It so happened that she was
making a dress for herself at the time, which she
intended to wear at a fancy-dress ball. As the
idea she was working out was entirely original
she was anxious to keep it dark. A friend
of her’s across the way had in vain tried to
find out the material of which the dress was to be
composed, but had had to go with her curiosity
unsatisfied. The spaniel knew this, and to re-
venge himself on his mistress he picked up a rem-
nant of the dress-material and ran off with it in
his month to the woman across the way.
It is a good thing for a horse to have
plenty of foot, but not too much. This specula-
tion is induced by the birth at a Queensland stud-
farm of a colt with five feet, one of which was
promptly amputated.
The Bulletin predicts that in the com-
plicated N.S.W. General Post Office resumption
game, W. H. Paling will be the man to ulti-
mately win. The brainy German has played
chess, and has regarded the situation accordingly.
A Collins-street photographer has a novelty:
Beauteous young lady, in white satin, covered
with about a thousand pearls, and she is lying in a
big pearl-shell. She looks like the Bankeress of
England. Heiress-hunters’ mouths water. Some-
body will liquidate those pearls.
A Melbourne bookmaker declined to pay
up some wagers lost at pony-races on the ground
that the ponies were “ dead ’uns ” when he backed
them. They always are “dead,” with the excep-
tion of one in each race, and the “ live ’un ” in-
variably romps in from their decaying carcases.
In the midst of death there is life —for the book-
makers.
The most popular footballer in Melbourne
is the famous “ Dummy ” Muir —deaf and dumb.
He is recognised by his strange head of thick hair,
quite grey. It looks like a cap at a little distance,
but he never wears a cap in the field. Dummy is
a splendid player, with the Fitzroy—always gene-
rous, gentlemanly, and disinterested. - He is tall
and thin.
Peter Jackson accepts no more challenges
in America until after he returns from his Euro-
pean trip. He will fight Pat Killen, though, if he
gets a chance, and put off his trip for a time to do
it. Why ? Because when Killen was asked if he
would fight Peter he said : “ When I get down to
fighting cats, dogs, hogs, and niggers, I’ll give
Jackson a chance.” That’s why Peter wants him
worse than anything.
Well, what about the Australian stock
now ? A Sir Modred wins at Baltimore, a Sir
Modred wins at Gravesend, and Cheviot, a full
brother to Sir Modred, is the sire of Little Bernie,
who won the Nursery Handicap lately in Aus-
tralia. J. B. Haggin and Dr. floss are to be con-
gratulated in owning two such grand producers.
It is a great pity that both these sires are held for
private use. —S. E. Bleedeu and Sportsman.
Mr. Septimus Miller and his brethren,
being already steeped in affluence, naturally
brought off a big coup at the late V.R.C. meeting.
The Miller “division which is mainly a family
affair —backed Redleap right out for tiie Grand
National Hurdle Race to win them more money
than they ever tried to win at one pop before, and
when Eaglet annexed the Steeple, the “double ’
was put on the books with a vengeance. With
Renmark and Reny the wealthy firm also got there
—four races out of the ten contested. The
unusual dearness of the Redleap certainty was
attested to by Corythus, who won a race, when no
Redleap was'in the field, with ridiculous ease.
Sydney pedestrianism must soon appear
on the track with a covering no more ample than
a Biblical fig-leaf, if a new phase of “ cronk”-
running be not put down. “ Loading, ” a dodge
played-out at the other end of the world, is now
commonly practised in Australia. This consists
in putting an insole of lead in the ped.’s shoes, a
heavy belt filled witli the same metal round Irs
waist, and stitching it wherever it can be conceak 1
in his running-costume. One of the men most
extensively backed at a recent big handicap car-
ried in this manner many pounds of dead-weight.
By this means a runner can try his utmost with-
out having the least chance of winning and the
lynx-eyed ground officials can do nothing. It is
to prevent “loading” that Sheffield peds. are
forced to run in the scanty clothing which Hutchens
once or twice adopted, while he was here.
Dingman’s electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market.
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of ‘ elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de lanes, and the finest fabrics. It re-
moves paint and grease stains from clothing with
very little labour ; indeed, if it will perform half
what is claimed to be within range of its powers
its introduction into our households will be quite
a startling domestic revolution.


Medical.
’TIRED NATURE’S KIND RESTORER.”
ill
IS A
SPECIFIC
FOR ALL DISEASES OF
DEBILITY.
If you only knew and properly understood the duties
which the blood lias to perform, and the absolute
necessity for it to have a definite chemical composi-
tion, and knew that the supply of mineral constituents
from Australian food is totally inadequate to keep
the blood sufficiently strong in oxidising power, on
which process health depends, you would know
that it is imperatively necessary to supply the blood
with its es ential mineral elements for the formation
of healthy tissue, muscle, bone, &c., which unfor-
tunately are not obt unable from the natural food in
these colonies. To supply these elements CLEMENTS’
TONIC is offered and is the only rational restorative
prepared in Australia. It positively cures all diseases
arising from poorness of blood or debility, such as
Neuralgia, Nervousness, Weakness, Languor, Tooth-
ache, Loss of Appetite, Vigor and Energy, which arc
only symptoms of a debilitated sy stem. It supplies
the vital stream with the chemical food necessary to
ensure a proper exercise of the natural proccs es of
life, it strengthens the digestive organs, imparts
vitality and animation, ensures regular and natural
sleep, increases nerve force and fortifies the system
against diseae. Medical men who know its chemical
composition and therapeutical value have recom-
mended it far and wide; they recommend it on
account of its sterling value and know that it can be
depended on to DO GOOD and CUHE DISEASE.
They know its definite composition and that it‘has a
SPECIFIC ACTION on diseased organisms, therefore
they prescribe it and extol its virtues as a scientific
antidote for all disca os arising from debility and
nervous weakness. Sold everywhere, but mind you
get the genuine article, bearing the name of
F. M CLEMENTS, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Debility from over Braimvork.
Kangaroo Valley, N.S.W., April 3, ’B9.
Dear Sir, —I have very much pleasure in bearing witness
to the great value of Clements’ Tonic in cases of
LASSITUDE, NERVOUSNESS AND CONSTITUTIONAL
DEBILITY GENERALLY. For more than 12 months I
was a martyr to extreme lassitude, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, and their concomitant train of physical troubles,
so much so : that I feared I should have to abandon my
profession as a journalist, writing being particularly
irksome and laborious to mo. I tried several advertised
tonics (?) with little or no good result, and began to think
my case beyond the power of medicine to cure. However,
seeing your Tonic advertised in some of my Exchanges,
I concluded to try it as a “dernier resort;” and I am
pleased to say the result was most satisfactory. After
taking one bottle I found my appetite much improved ; I
could sleep more soundly, and felt refreshed next morn-
ing. I continued the medicine, taking in all six large
bottles, and gradually all my distressing symptoms dis-
appeared. I now feel myself stronger than ever, and as
near perfect health as a man who has to bear the strain of
constant literary work can expect to be. I can confidently
recommend Clements’ Tonic te all persons suffering
from loss of nerve force through sickness or mental over-
work, and am most happy to support my testimony with
my signature.—And remain, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,'
P. JEFFERSON WALLACE,
Editor and Proprietor “ Kangaroo Valley Pioneer.”
General Debilitation.
75 King Street, Sydney, March 19, ’B9. :
Dear Sir,— Kindly send me two .more bottles of
Clements’ Tonic and permit me to express my thanks
and gratitude at the results obtained by taking two large
bottles. I had had a great amount of business worry to
contend against, which, together with the long hours I had
stuck to it, completely undermined my constitution, and
made me feel very tired, weak and ill, my nerves being
quite shatteied. I was so nervous that the accidental
slamming of a door would cause me to start violently, my
heart would beat very rapidly, and I would break out in a
profuse perspiration, afterwards having a sensation of
extreme weakness, lasting for some hours; my sleep at
night was disturbed ; I awoke in the morning with head-
ache and aching limbs, and quite unrefreshed. I had no
appetite, no strength, and no inclination to work, and was
completely run out. I was persuaded by your advertise-
ments to try Clements’ Tonic, and am a different man
ever since ; it gave me new health and strength, increased
my appetite, and made me relish my food ; 1 increased in
flesh, I lost all nervous feelings, and now feel stronger
than ever, and am glad to bear test mony to the value of
your wonderful remedy. Yours, &c., W. D. BRAHAM.
Nervous Debility.
Castlereagh St., Sydney, Feb. 1, ’B9.
Dear Sir, —For some time past I have been in the
hands of the doctors, and I can truthfully assert that I
obtained not the slightest benefit. I heard of Clements’
Tonic, and have taken three bottles, with such marked
good results as to cause me to write and congratulate you
on the very excellent virtues of your remedy.
It has completely cured me of all my disorders, and I feel
myself an entirely different man. A friend of mine to
whom I gave a bottle, half of which he has taken, says he
feels wonderfully'better in his general health, and, with
myself, begs to cordially thank you for giving the public
the benefit of your skill in manufacturing such a splendid
Tonic. Ido not wish my name used in print, but hope
you are very prosperous in the sale of your medicine, as
you justly deserve.—Yours faithfully, .
Debility and Indigestion.
Richmond, October 5, 1888.
Dear Sir, —It is with feelings of great pleasure that I
pen these few lines. I have been a sufferer from GENERAL
DEBILITY and INDIGESTION for the last five years, and
have tried almost every known remedy without the
slightest benefit. I had given up all hope of being cured,
when by good luck I saw your Tonic advertised in the
Windsor Gazette. I determined to try it, and after the
third dose the change was remarkable. I took three
bottles, and now feel like a new man altogether.
WILLIAM JAMES MARIIES.
Weakness and Debility
Parramatta, Sept. 10, 1888.
Sir,—Four years ago I caught a severe cold which
settled in my head and chest and caused an incessant
cough and copious discharge of phlegm ; this brought on
great weakness and debility ; after considerable attention
and doctor’s treatment the cough was relieved and finally
cured, but the debility remained and seemed to defy the
skill of the medical men and the power of medicine. 1
had no appetite, and could scarcely eat a single particle of
food, and was almost reduced to a skeleton, having
entirely wasted away. I had taken pints of cod-liver oil,
malt extracts and other medicines without relief, when I
was recommended to take Clements’ Tonic. I pro-
cured a bottle, and am thankful to say that I immediately
began to improve; I could eat better, and relish anil
digest what I did eat; I gained flesh every day, and my
strength rapidly returned, and, after six week’s treatment
With your Tonic, I felt a new woman altogether. Yours, &c,,
MARY KELLETT ’■
Neuralgia and Nervous Debility.
Newcastle, N.S.W., Dec. 15, 1888.
Dear Sir,—Foe the last seven years I have been a victim
to the most excruciating agony from neuralgia, and also
suffered from extreme nervousness. I tried hundreds of
so-called specifics, but without avail, and, being a com-
mercial traveller, am particulary liable to colds from ex-
posure to draughts, &c.; a slight one even always fled to
my facial nerves, and caused acute neuralgic pains, pre-
venting sleep and causing excessive sympathetic headache.
I saw your Tonic advertised, procured a bottle and, in
two days, the pain was completely cured, a consummation
I had never expected, and am deeply thankful for same.
This was four months ago and from then till now I have
never had the slightest twinge of the excruciating torture
I used to have. You may make what use of this yon
Bke—Yours gratefully, HENRY A. CRANE,
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &:c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-slreet, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.
Special Advertisements.
DR. SPEiBR’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
42 IMiargaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, ISSC; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 188 S). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power J
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. .1.
Speer, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
Luxuriant Glossy Hate. —To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthener, and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kalvdor retrieves freckles, tan, cutaneous
eruptions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask
dealers in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton
Garden London.
At hen next you hake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will lie as white as snow.
Special Advertisements.
mULVEKMACHEE’S WORLD-
* FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST & SHIPHAM,
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
iE. A Quantity of Second-hand
PAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
and bulk. Eor full particulars apply to the
Printer, Bulletin Office.
r
OR SAT,
NEWS
■ *w* lift .a
rj "'
roj.
m o I
> '
Vi
I
III!
iPiCtßlfl PkfltD-Eilfl. CIU B'BBUl£l£-ST-_SaJUlt*,
Tlle €>^5 o:r,<a ‘ 13:otel > King Street, Sydney.
IT. THORPE
Proprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES,
Ths Bast Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just l .a. isroitto-
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM &
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
ie X YORK x STREET, x SYDKTEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the following Special Links: Peerless Gloss. Satin I’olisli,
Blacking. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
C 0.,
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
SSTwog; s
CONSU
m! I
DP. -
m
iiiiiii
BAYiDR
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with those widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un.
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy r-ediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms 'which load to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of (id. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health oven after his case has
been pionounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant’.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you t o sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He wil
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street,
(Off Pitt Street North)
S T ID FT E T.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.
A BAD BREAK.
“So you want a place on the staff?” inquired the editor of a comie paper. Have yon had any
experience?”
“Not on a regular paper,” replied the applicant; “but I have been cracking" jokes all
my life.”
“Umph!” returned the editor. “ Any references ? ”
“Nobody except Miss Giggle,” he answered with a blush; “she once said I was too funny
for anything.”
“In that case I guess you’re too funny for ns.”—PUCK.


Sporting.
TA.CK THOMPSON,
mmber of Tatter gall’s (Sydney), and Victorian ,
Club (Melbourne),
Desires to warn the public of Australia that he
hag NO CONNECTION with any advertised or other
ronsultation promoted by a person using th
mine of “*T. Thompson.” Previous warnings
have been given, but the swindle is still being
carried on successfully.
Books Open on Forthcoming Events.
Country communications dealt with promptly.
N p —Jack Thompson’s 0 ONLY Addresses are-
-220 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
AND
TATTERSALL’S CLUB, SYDNEY.
[Mention this Paper.]
t
Square & Compass
A CLUB.
ss. Consultations. ss.
An unlimited number of members
at ss. each.
FIRST HORSE
SECOND HORSE
THIRD HORSE
50 per cent.
30 per cent.
20 per cent.
Triß Square and Compass Club closes all Con-
sultations at the hours advertised, posts and distributes
results half-an-hour before each race-thus showing the
bona tides of the affair. Ttie rooms where the telegrams
are posted can be visited by subscribers only. The full
results of every event are always advertised in the Sunday
Times and Refep.ee following the races.
Motto: “ Fair and Square.”
Look at the Dividends we have paid on the Don
caster Handicap ; Russley, £95 3s. Cd. Pmtaich, £1
2s. 9d. ; Kady Kingsboro’ £l2 3s. lOd.
CONSULTATION ON EVERY EVENT.
Note the address of the original—
Square & Compass Club,
Care o v M. Pal m,
056 GEORGE STREET 656
COLONNADE.
•• TATTERS ALL'S ”
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal racss through-
out the year.
o
See Evening News “ Brevities ” for full par-
ticulars, or write to “ Tatters all," care if (ho.
Adams, Pitt-3ireet, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
To H N BEIDSE & 0 0,,
V CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
LA RLIXG IT A R BO UR ,
WOOL BROKERS,
Rides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, dr.
ATJCTIOITEEES.
C3-H.-A.I3Xr SiLLESMEKT.
Western Australia,
The Coming Colony,
Is rapidly progressing. Her vast Mineral Resources
are being opened wp, and property is hardening in
value.
Make a Profitable Investment and Purchase
Land at
The Capital City.
Allotments right in the City!
Prom £33 Each..
Allotments close to the City,
Prom Ten Pounds each. Lot.
Good Land. - Well Situated. Easy Terms.
Title Guaranteed Indisputable.
Pamphlets and Marked Plans Post Free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Co.,
LIMITED,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSSBS
8W
SATIN
’ XADIIS'
?HILDBENi
TRUNKSIfcC&C
/ZJT/Jmrry.lC>
BOSTON
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1870 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 , Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd'm 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants-
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
Business Announcements. .
WILLIAM FLEMING,
J 22 & 24 CLARE3XTCB STREET, SYDNEY.
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
BUGSIES, PH.EMS, BUCSBOAMS,
PONY CARTS, &c., &c.
Express k Lumber Waggons.;
Harness for Buggies and Waggons. :
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
'1
ONLY n.
A
V
*r AC
MURDER!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest selected Virginia
cr>.ps by F. W. Saywell, of 6
Park-street, it will
ARREST
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure brands now on
the market. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the numer-
ous poisons
IMPRISONED
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be boughs every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, an i obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Reta.l from
I. W* Saywsll & Co M
6 Park Street,
SYDUET.
\
X
/
\ Vnlws
>w
KEk/f.
ŧ
t
[OiycMES
£^<%ea
ţ
t
ţ
t
&S. ISLANDS
S16.Gj:pj\GES-
SYDNEY.
Y6,
m
LICHTNER & CO.
318 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
O ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
Photographic
Materials
AND
Chemicals
FOR
Professionals
AND
Amateurs.
IMPORTERS OF-
"
'I:-
anS'il
piii
liliiHu
■ i
. i •• •
- i
m
mm
„"Hi..i i : m, j
iiililiiS
iiiffllHTiliili
Cameras,
AMATEUR
OUTFITS,
-
Dry Plates,
Magic
AND
Enlarging
Lanterns.
Send for KTew Illustrated Catalogue.
Business Announcements.
BEALE & COMPANY’S
KTew "Warelxotise.
m
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
SYDNEY,
A RADICAL REFORM.
“ Oh, I feel so Mondayish ! ” exclaims the housemother
at her ImMaast table ou the Monday morning. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the aic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boding, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony. _
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which tne present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch o. soiled linen.
The o-ood-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may. betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished ui good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions.
Very many of our valued customers to whom we hai e
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance ot a
daughter if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and ot
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how ? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “ tired.” ... . ,
Now, as purveyors of household implements, we have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assured y
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed. , .
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or are
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale Patent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degiee,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows ;
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “ dolly,” which is worked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and foi-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ,
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspended in the water, is not rubbed,and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, however careful. When the wash-
ing is done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
When you huy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
482 & 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
♦
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-strefet,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South
Wales and Queensland.


stern Australia: the Coming .
Now is the time to Invest your Few Pounds!
To Reap very shortly your Thousands!
The eyes of the world are now on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where recent Rich Discoveries of Gold, Coal, Silver, Tin and otht
UOVERNMKKT (a ceitainity) it may, with truth, he said —“AT LAST SHE MOVES!” Be wise in time! Call on the W. A. Agents
i car the CITY OE BERT H or POET OE ALBANY, while you can get it almost given you. Numerous Properties for Sale to suit Large s
Tin and other Minerals.have been made, and with RESPONSIBLE
(G-. W. Dent & Co.), and secure an allotment in or
and Small Buyers, Syndicates, &c., from £10 to £20,000
WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
U9a EIllSEsa/loetlx Street, Sydney.
RESIDENT AGENTS WANTEO
ix —
COUNTRY DISTRICTS IN ALL THE COLONIES.
m
m
a
3
This Engraving conveys but a faint idea of the
Exquisite Beauty of the Magnificent Cloth
Binding of “CROWN JEWELS.”
CROMN-JEMELS
OR
GEMS OF LITERATURE, ART AND MUSIC
BEING
Choice Selections from the Writings and Musical Productions of the
Most Celebrated Authors, from the Earliest Times:
Comprising Gems for the Home Circle; Narratives, Ballads,
Songs; Poems of Friendship and Love ; Brilliant Descrip-
tions of the Beauties of Nature ; Lyrics of Heroism, Ad-
venture and Patriotism; Choice Selections from
Religious Literature; Sorrow and Adversity;
Childhood and Youth ; Masterpieces of Dra-
matic Literature ; Poetical Romance ;
Wit, Humor, etc., etc., etc
INCLUDING BIOGRAPHIES OF THE AUTHORS.
The whole comprising- a Vast Treasury of
the Gems of Poetry, Prose and Song.
The work is printed from large, clear, new type, on fine calendered
paper, and comprised in one large quarto volume of pages. It is
embellished with a Galaxy of the most Beautiful Steel Plate
Ellgra vlug'S, which are alone worth the whole cost of the book.
APPLY, FULL PARTICULARS—
R. B. JONES,
6 Bridge Street,
SYDNEY.
xsihilL., Sz 00.,
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS,
stock; &c statioit ag-eitts,,
HAVING unrivalled facilities for the Storage and Display of Wool, either in Bulk or Sample,
and having largely enjoyed the support of Wool-growers for so many years, appeal with every
confidence for a continuance of their clients’ favours. The season bids fair to be exceptionally good,
and prices realised will doubtless prove highly satisfactory to growers. ,
The SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
is each year proving increasingly attractive to English., Continental and American Manu-
facturers, who prefer making their purchases here at first hand. Should owners, however, desire it,
we are prepared to
SKIT 5 TimET LIBERAL CASH A3DVAITCE
to our Agents. For all wools offered but not sold merely a nominal charge is made,
Regular Sales held of Wool, Sheepskins, Marsupial Skins, Hides, Tallow, Leather, Grain,
and all Station Produce, Bi-weekly Sales of Stock at Homebush and Corporation Yards.
EVgC Large and Extensive Paddock Accommodation at Homebush, Blaoktown, and
Dubbo for both Sheep and Cattle. i
All Consignments receive prompt and personal attention upon arrival. W ay-Bills and all further
information on application.
Wool Warehouses - CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Head Office, 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Branch Office at DUBBO.
THE AUSTRAL BANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
(PHILLIPS & CO).
Reserve Capital Account
Reserve Fund
Total Assets over Liabilities
£250,000
61,131 10 10
311,131 10 10
Head Office
Melbourne Office
London Office
Sydney, N.S.W.
404 Collins Street.
1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices
fN.S.W.: Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
[Victoria : Lara.
Rates for Fixed Deposits over £BO :
7-j per cent, for 3 Years
7 ~ 12 Months
G per cent, for C Months.
5 „ 3 „
Balance Sheets and further information may he obtained on application to
C Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
JT. S. DF*. Cowell,
Manager.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Workers
UOLLEIt SKATES (any make) with IiKASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use-
importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
NEWEST INVENTION GREATEST NOVELTY.
ť
THE
&
PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM CORSET,
Patented in England and on the Continent,
Will not Split in the Sonins nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen says “ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the
cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no
strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workman-
ship all that could be desired.”
Gold Medal. Sew /calami Exhibition, 1883.
Gold Medal (Highest Award for Corsets), London
international Exhibition, 1884.
Latest A nan! 1 Gold Medal, International
Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1884 S.
CAUTION. —Beware of worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped
“Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM
CORSET, No. 116,” in oval.
l>ers and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
ŧ
Tobacconists.
SMOKE NOTIIING BUT
»
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents ;
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT Sc CO.,
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize-MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
EGYPTIAN C|GARETTES.
M. Melachrino & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
All the Courts and Embassies of Europe;
ALL THE
Leading British and Continental Clubs
and Eegimental Messes.
Have the Largest Sale in the World!—
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best.
Sole Agents:
"W ARREN & dEtCTWICr.
14 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 5 Cigarette . .. 85/- per 1000 ; !)/- per 100.
„ No. 8 ~ 66/- „ 7/- „
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
PIPES.
PIPES.
MELACHRINO'i
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO I
MELACHRINO ,
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO J
t
Boots and Shoes.
FASHION,
FIT, and
FINISH I
JUDGE + FOR + YOURSELVES.
We Have in Stock
Make to Order
The Finest Hand Sewn
Boots and Shoes
AT PRICES
THAT
DEFY COMPETITION!
t
ţ
A Visit will prove the above Assertions.
Tine Co-Operative
Boot Making Company
(Opposite David Jones and Co.),
376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER,
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
JJR, SMITH, TJ.S.A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of DOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
Ncs. 7 & 8 First Floor, 182 GEORGE STREET,
Hours ; ... Prom 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Dr. H. Ewart Fletcher.
Sufferers from NERVOUS DEBILITY can get a
clear insight into their cases by sending for Dr.
Fletcher’s Treatise on “ Nervous Complaints,” their
Cause, Symptoms, Treatment and Cure.
This admirable treatise is specially written to show
a method counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretion in early life, overwork, irregularity in eating
or drinking, etc., etc., all of which bring in their train
a number of diseases which are generally classed
under the head of Nervous Complaints. Dr. Fletcher
has spent a great many years in the study of these
diseases, and has treated a -large number of cases
during his private practice, and, in consequence of
the success that, has attended his efforts, has decided
to bring his medicines more prominently before the
public, and to give to sufferers generally the benefit
of his great experience in these diseases. Dr. Flet-
cher wishes it to he distinctly understood that he
reserves to himself the right of refusing to undertake
any case, but if he does undertake it, he is willing to
give a Written Guarantee to cure same, or return
all moneys paid. Persons of both sexes who ex-
perience the following symptoms, viz., Dizziness,
Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the Back, Defective
Memory, Loss of Energy and Vitality and Will Power,
Constipation, Premature Decay, Liver and Kidney De-
rangements, &0., &c., should send for this book at
once, as it contains in a concise form, simple directions
to overcome same.
Remember, Dr. Fletcher docs not wish to infer that
he can perform miracles, but merely claims to be
thoroughly skilled in the treatment of these diseases.
Thousands have been cured by him, and he invites
sufferers to investigate his statements, by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. Dr. Flet-
cher's treatment is both simple and effective, and
within the reach of the poorest. The treatise will be
erwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover postage.
Consultation hy Letter, Free.
Address in first instance :
Dr. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.0., Sydney.
Private Resid« nee : “Clonmel,” Waverley.
iREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Ju Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers hi w they may
cure themselvesof Ner\ ous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &e., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “ Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
SYDNEY.
ow s
•-EMBROCATION
%
ť
Business Announcements.
The Compagnoni Catering Co.
GUNSLEB.S CAPE,
160, 162, 16-1 3Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
JF. GUNSLER desires to intimate that in
• consequence of the unathorised use of his
name elsewhere, it is necessary that all orders for
Gunsler’s Cafe, or Compagnoni Catering Co., be
addressed, <l. F. Gunsler, ICO, IC2, and IG4 Pitt
street.
J. F. Gunsler General Manager.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of all k nds c f Tins for Confectioner*,
Tea Merchan*s, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved maoh nery
A. Trial Solicited.


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan &, Cuarantee Company,
(Limited).
incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL .... £500,000'
Sydney Office :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Offices :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
(Next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices: ... Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Leeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of
interest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS ;
Three Months ... 5 per cent.
Six „ ... 6 „
Twelve ~ ... 7 „
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months,
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1\ per cent.
by order of the board of directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager,
ghe Anglo-Ausimlian (Investment,
finance & £and Company, fetd.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) ... 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ~ 60,000
Head Office: - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman ; HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P.
Vice-Chairman: F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office .. .. 31 Lombard Street, E.C.
Chairman : Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
mills Company was Established in 1881, and, as tlie
L result of wise and enterprising management, has won
ts way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
jpgr° Deposits received in Large or Small amounts
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES ... Manager
—THE—
federal reversionary investment
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies' Act, 187 k.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET.
v GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
-A immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits :—3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent.; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager.
—THE —
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATING,
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works; CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
Jambs Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs, Hudson Brothers), Sydney;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-niining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modem
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
cqlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
Por further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
IKHEZHUST’S
Patent Unbreakable Saddle
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Factory and Office—24s Oastlereagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreakable
Saddles is now carried on at our
New Premises, 245 Oastlereagh St., Sydney,
where Trade Orders will receive prompt attention.
<ST None Genuine without our Trade Mark. ISt
Caution. —The Sole Right of the above Patent
having been purchased by the undersigned, Sad-
dlers and the Public generally are cautioned against
any infringements of the same.
for Keen s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Compamv,
Limited —
P. C. Hedemann, \
L. 0. Henderson, J
Trustee*
Miscellaneous.
-AUSTRAUAN-
Holler flour and Ipraiii gtoreA,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office : - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
; ,
T .EOITARD Gwinsr,
General Business Ss Hotel Broker,
No. 8, Post Office Chambers,
' PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite G.P.O).
'
■—Nothing but Straightforward Business Done. —
No Sale No Charge.
C3-W3TTiT.
Miscellaneous.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
-DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Jt> Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed tor Fixed.
Deposits
oYrars .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... •••• 9 per cent.
6 Months .... ..•• f per 2!„J'
3 Months 7 per cent
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board. p HAIIRISi Manager .
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
TODY boon om y
K 5 and
j Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined a-nd made
Equal to New, at
J. SULIiIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hitt, Sydkbt,
between,
Liverpool A Bathurst St».,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
umn
Hotels.
Melbourne
TRAMS PASS
EVEkY FEW MINUTES
'll
saiaeg
PALACE HOTJEfe.
" t-
V :
J.A.WILSON
MDPIiHO*
C.WCLARE
\fgfr KANACEII I
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURSE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is —
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks,' Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three HCnncirecJ Magnificent Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
S - Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
|3f T"WO ZP-A-SSIEISTG-lEIEi OTIS LIFTS.
M
Ladies’ Boudoir* Drawing* Smoking* and Reading Rooms.
)_ (
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook & Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms s Single Bedroom, 2s- 6d. per Might.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
!■■■ ■> i —ii (« in 1 '- ■
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
Dinner you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de H6te at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstee to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. trrLMINaTER. Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
T.ONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Beet Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-olaas Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of Hew Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
—s:}-
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured I
The Greatest Success j
of Modern Times. \
consui/t
/ All Chronic Diseases
\ are Curable.
MR. H. E. KXJ
CONSULTING ECLECTIC,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases.
60 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[copy.]
Glenhope, 19th July, 1888.
To H. K. Kookuuhn. Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about .lmy,
1888, but, thinking it . was only a severe cold I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com*
menced to expectorate blood and matter freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and 1
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating
me for five months, he honestly informed me that my case
was incurable, and that it was useless to attend mm any
longer, and he advised me not to take any more chwmsttf
medicines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was
poison. I then pressed him for a true statement of my
case, and he very reluctantly informed me that I was
suffering from Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that
1 was quite incurable. During the time I was attended
by the above doctors, I was not able to he down m my
bed, and expectorated many quarts of blood and matter
from my lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this
time I saw your advertisement and decided to consult you,
which I did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished
me by informing me minutely of the exact nature of my
complaint without my giving you any information, and
even without your having sounded or examined me. But
my astonishment was greatly increased when you tola me
that you could guarantee to cure me uponA
agreement, which I gladly availed myself of, Aftei having
taken your medicines for a month I was considerably
worse; expectorating very much, and throwing up several
pieces of skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of
my hand; but after this crisis I commenced to improve
very fast. After three months treatment the expectora-
tion and cough entirely left me, and I had gained over
two stone in weight, a result which my friends considered
little short of miraculous, as all expected I would soon
die ; and from that time (thanks to your most wonderful
skill and ability) I have not felt any return of my com-
plaint, and my lungs are as strong as ever they were, and
I can do as good and as hard a day’s work as I ever uia.
I am sure that people diseased and suffering should avail
themselves of your treatment, and not delay as I did until
I was given up to die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours
FRANK E. E. KNIGHT. ' ,
Witness —J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given wnioh
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
not being Effected.
Free Prescriptioua
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this hook will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. DF* ES RR E,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST &. ACCOUCHEUR.
Cates of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually' cured.
Hours of Consultation;
9to 11 a.rn. ; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.rn.
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S Y D KT E Y.
Business Announcements.
Ft O O 3NT E Y and. C 0.,
SAW MILLERS,
timber (Merchants # Steam Joiners,
TO'WZCsTS'V'IIEjXjIE ,
T ARGEST Stock of Oregan Pine and Colonial Timbers,
L Sashes, Doors, &c., in Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a Speciality.
Country and Station Orders promptly despatched
P, C. NICHOLLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
■ Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 736
HA YMABKET:
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 54-1 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cake#, &c., Made to Order.


Deaf Forty Years,
The description of a simp’e remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of forty years’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
Prospectus.
—THE—
Gilberton Gold* Silver* and Gem
MINING SYNDICATE,
QTJEE US Hi .A. EsT X).
(To be registered as a Limited Liability Company.)
In 6000 Shares of £lO,
Of which 1500—termed Contributing Shares—ar
now offered to the public on the following terms
viz.:—
£1 on application, £4 on allotment, and the balanc
by further calls of 10s. at intervals of not les
than one month,
_ The formation of this syndicate is simply a pre
liminary step towards the flotation of a larger con
pany on the London or Colonial markets, on a bas
which should afford a return to EACH syndicat
share (£10) of the amount originally subscribed
and a further interest representing about £lOO i
cash and paid-up shares in the new Company.
Provisional Directors :
REGINALD C. ALLEN, Esq. (Messrs. AUe
and Allen, Solicitors.)
Hon. EDMUND BARTON, M.L.C. (lat
Speaker Legislative Assembly, N.S.W.)
H. MONTAGUE FAITHEULL, Esq. (Messrs
Iceton and Eaithf nil, Solicitors.)
EDWARD GRIFFITH, Esq. (late Genera
Manager Royal Bank of Queensland.)
GEORGE C. LOTJGHNAN, Esq. (Messrs. Mac
.dermott and Loughnan.)
JOHN NEWTON, Esq. (Messrs. C. Newton
Bros, and Co., Sydney.)
Solicitors:
Messrs. ALLEN and ALLEN, Phillip-street.
Bankers :
BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Temporary Offices :
NORTH QUEENSLAND INVESTMENT
COMPANY,
7, Post-office Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE GILBERTON GOLD, SILVER, AND
GEM MINING SYNDICATE
Is formed for the purpose of taking over
The following
GOLD AND SILVER MINES,
Situated in the famous
ETHERIDGE DISTRICT, NORTH
QUEENSLAND :
THE GILBERT RIVER GOLDFIELD oe
cupies a prominent position in the history of Aus
tralian mining, and is acknowledged to be one of
the richest reefing districts in Queensland ; while
the properties above enumerated stand among the
very first in the record of auriferous fame.
Gilberton is situated in about latitude 19deg.
15min. south, and longitude 143 deg. 4min. east,
distant 247 miles west by north from Townsville,
with an elevation of about 3000 ft. above the sea
level.
Even under, the adverse conditions of crude
crushing machinery, the gold claims of the Gilber-
ton Syndicate have been proved to yield rich re-
turns.
This assertion is readily substantiated by refer-
ence to the following list of a few of thecrushings,
as reported to the Mines Department by the
Gilberton Gold Wardens, and extracts from the
Brisbane Courier and Queenslander news-
papers :
CERTIFIED CRUSHING*) TAKEN FROM GILBERTON
GOLD LEASES.
“ INGLEHEIM.”
“ Has crushed 2G tons for 20Soz. of gold, and plenty
more at grass.”
A small parcel of 6. tons from No. 1 Ingleheim“ The
tables look-Al, and are expected to yield lOoz. per ton.”
“ Eight tons gave 40oz. smelted gold.”
“ tons gave 30oz. gold.”
“ 51 tons gave ojoz. gold to ton..”
“ 25 tons gave 1730 z. 9dwt. gold.”
“ Up the Tea Tree Gully is the Ingleheim No. 1 South
and;! and 2 North, in full working order, raising extremely
rich stone ; two others in proximity, one ofwhich is called
the Good Hope, from which the prospectors crushed by
hand-machine 530 z. gold from 12cwt. of stone.”—Extracts
from Brisbane Courier.
“ COSMOPOLITAN.”
“ Taken up by Messrs. Tulloh and M'Monk, turned out
very rich stone. It will be remembered that a crushing
from this claim yielded 121 oz. from 7J- tons of stone ; 6
tons 13cwt. gave 20oz. 9dwt of gold.
“ CHANCE.”
“ 161 tons gave 5720 z. Sdwtl of gold.”
“ Raising splendid ore, the richest quartz I have ever
seen in Queensland ; 70 yards west of the Chance another
reef is raising good stone.”— Brisbane Courier.
“54 tons gave 4S6oz; gold.. It is reported that the
Chance (Mount Hogan) is equal to 9oz. pen ton.”— Queens-
lander.
“ On the Chance line there are five claims, besides the
P.O. I have seen nothing that reminds me so much of
Gympie as a peep of the prospectors’ paddock ; they have
taken a good deal out- of thisclainl.”— Brisbane Courier.
“ The Chance prospectors have just crushed 2 tons at
Bismarck’s Hand Machine for. 40oz. gold. .. . . , The
Chance and Gilbert reefs are in what' is termed “ slate
formation,’ and are easier worked ; besides, they have a
great deal more gold in the stone. Indeed these two
claims should be a pile jo the lucky shareholders.”—
Queenslander.
“ HOMEWARD BOUND.”
“ 28J-tons gave 1530 z. lldwt.’”
“ 54 tons gave 2560 z. 17dwt.”
“ 4,} tons gave 30oz. gold. Tire machine then broke
down, and balance of stone sent to Mount Hogan., The
above was part of 35 tons awaiting crushing at the mine.”-
—Queenslander.
“ It is a well-known fact that- by putting in about half-
a-score of men 40 to 50 tons of stone can be raised weekly.”
—Brisbane Courier.
About 30 men are .actively employed, and a
considerable quantity of stone is now being raised.
The following telegram from the manager of the
local bank (who is acting as honorary representa-
tive of the Gilberton Syndicate) was received on
June 17, 1880)
“Had assays made Homeward Bound, Tweedside,
Ingleheim, Cosmopolitan, with following results
“ COSMOPOLITAN—GoId, 2ozl 4dwfc."; silver, 2oz. 2dwt.
“HOMEWARD BOUND-Gold, 16oz. 7dwt.; silver,
1470 z. 13dwt.
Prospectus.
*' }]}} BEDSIDE—GoId, 17oz. Idwt.; silver, 13oz. 7dwt.
INGLEHEIM— Gold, 440 z. 9dwt.; silver, ISoz. Idwt.
(to the ton).
“ No gold showing' (to naked eye) in any of the stone
assayed, except little in Tweedside.”
-i ,-F°^ owe d by a later telegram, dated July 8,
loo») I—•
t ‘‘' r '; V / 1 - KI, ' Sl >*K and HOMEWARD BOUND LOOKING
VERY GOOD.
“ INGLEHEIM ALSO LOOKING WELL.
“ Raising stone from these claims similar to that whic
gave such excellent assays reported in my wire 17t
ultimo.”
. The principal deadwork on the mines has beei
virtually accomplished, and gold-bearing stone i
n 2 w being raised. At the present time there is m
effective crushing machinery within a distance o
100 miles, and consequently the enormous cos
of carriage—even with the richest stone—i
simply prohibitive. However, a perfect crush
J ng plant of English manufacture (the property o
the Gilberton Queensland Gold-mining Company]
replete with all modem gold-saving appliances
IS NOW IN COURSE OF ERECTION ES
THE VERY MIDST OF THE GILBERTOIS
LEASES, and it may be expected that the stom
raised from the Homeward Bound, Tweedside anc
Ingleheim will receive careful treatment about
next October, when rich returns should be ob
tained. The expenditure hitherto borne by th(
owners of these properties has been very large
BUT THEY ARE STILL WILLING TC
WAIT FOR A RETURN UPON THEIS
GREAT OUTLAY UNTIL THE LARGEE
COMPANY INDICATED IN COMMENCE
MENT OE THIS PROSPECTUS IS
FLOATED. No better proof of the bona-fide;
of the whole undertaking can be evinced than ir
the disposition of the £15,000 provided by sale o
the 1500 contributing shares. Of this sum £12,00(
IS RESERVED FOR WORKING EXPENSE
of the several claims dating from February 1
THE BALANCE OE £3OOO PROVIDING foi
the cost of equipping a party, (consisting of £
leader, surveyor, men, horses, &c.) to take up the
mineral areas referred to on Agate Creek and else
where, together with expenses of flotation anc
brokerage The proprietary is merely relieved
from the heavy working expenses until the
batteries are employed on the stone and in returr
they virtually cede a quarter of their interest—
NOT RECEIVING A SINGLE PENNY OF
THE AMOUNT NOW BEING SUBSCRIBED
Any ONE of these very valuable leases might
have been floated into a separate Company at an
amount far in excess of the whole nominal capita
of the Syndicate ; but the course now shadowee
out of forming a consolidated holding must com-
mend itself to everyone who has had experience in
public mining companies. The cost of manage
ment, as a rule, absorbs the bulk of the returns,
The individual mine necessitates a mining manager,
legal manager, engineer, amalgamator, secretary,
board of directors, officers and offices —an enor-
mous handicap on the richest company. With
the consolidation of the Gilberton Mines these ex
penses will be minimised—a central and complete
crushing plant with chlorination works ; one
general manager (for whose services a high salary
could be afforded) to supervise the entire workings
of all the leases : one directory and legal manager
would suffice, and make the individual cost of
management a light impost on the gross returns.
Once the properties are thoroughly opened out
there never need be a complete cessation in the
output of stone; for, whilst some of the claims
will necessarily be occupied from time to time with
dead-work the others will be producing stone to
keep the stampers in full swing.
REPORTS.
The leading Gpld W ardens of . Queensland
P. V. Selheim, Esq., Captain Townley ; Howard
St. George, Esq.; E. Gill, Esq.; the late G.
Elphinstone Dalrymple; and Richard Daintree
(Government Geologist)—have all expressed them-
selves firm believers in the exceeding richness of
the Gilberton Reefs. Unfortunately their posi-
tions in the Government service preclude publica-
tion of their opinions. Special reports, however,
may be read in the pamphlet prospectus, which
can be obtained on application at the office of the
North Queensland Investment Company, 7 Post
Office Chambers.
Besides the leases enumerated, arrangements are
already made to take up adjoining areas, and also
to secure a large area of land on Agate Creek, near
Gilberton, which there is strong grounds for be-
lieving is both auriferous and diamondiferons,
practical geologists having recognised there a dia-
mond drift similar in all outward appearances to
the African Veldts.
The bed of_ Agate Creek is composed—as the
name would imply—of agates, which are found
there in thousands of tons. Precious stones are
said to exist, and one of the earliest gold commis-
sioners had in his possession a diamond of the first
water, alleged to have come from this wild and
nearly unknown region.
The Hon. W. O. Hodgkin son, late Minister for
Mines in Queensland, recently wrote as follows :
“ If similarity of strata, associated with mineral deposits
and general characteristics, argue .anything, then so far as
information of such nature goes (and it went no further
to lead Hargreaves from California to the Turon), Agate
Creek holds out inducements for a vigorous search for the
‘ King of Gems,’ and may hide in its rushy coverts more
than one Koh-i-Noor or Star of Light.”
This opinion from one of the shrewdest miners
and practical geologists in the colonies, backed up
by a similar opinion expressed by the late Mr.
Richard Daintree (the first Government Geologist
of Queensland), should carry certain weight, and
possibly with proper gem-saving appliances valu-
able discoveries may be made.
Immediately the syndicate shares are all taken
up, a properly-equipped party will take possession
of ground already marked out, and good reasons
exist for believing that diligent prospecting will
lead to some startling results.
A private prospectus of the Gilberton Gold,
Silver and Gem Mining Syndicate was recently
issued, there being 150 contributing shares of £lOO
each. _ Owing, however, to certain representations,
the Directors have now reduced the single share
to £lO, increasing in like proportion the contri-
buting number.
There are comparatively very few contributing
shares available, _ and the Provisional Directors
wish it to be distinctly understood that
Shares will be allotted in the Order of
Application.
. APPLICATIONS for SHARES may be sent
in to the Secretary, Mr. S. L. LISTER, office of
the North Queensland Investment Company, No.
7, Post-office Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney; or
through the following brokers :
Messrs. Macdermott and Loughnan, 317 George-
street, Sydney.
Mr. W. G. Anslow, 135 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Messrs. Moreton and Griffith, Queen-street,
Brisbane.
Prospectus.
Mr. A. S. Fotheri rig-ham, Royal
Adelaide.
Mr. A. Saunders, 100 Queen-street,
Mr. G. H. Cooke, Broken Hill.
Exchange,
Melbourne.
As the applications come in, so will the allot-
ment be made, due notification of which will be
forwarded to each applicant.
A cheque at the rate of £1 per share must accom-
pany the application. The Company is virtually
floated, a large number of shares having been
already taken up before the issue of this Pros-
pectus.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—In view of there existing
strong objections with some investors to accept
liability on the contributing shares of a company,
or the trouble attendant upon payment of calls,
arrangements are now made for the disposal of 200
paid-up shares, each £lO, less 7 per cent; £1 per
share on application; FINAL payment of £8 6s.
on allotment.
Business Announcements,
FISH! FISH! FISH!
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
o
To Fish. Consumers in Town & Country.
WE ARE PREPARED TO SUPPLY
Pish Frozen in Solid Blocks of Ice,
the blocks containing 801 b., 151 b., and 101 b. assorted fish.
Price, 3d., 4d., and sd. per lb., according to the kinds of
fish desired.
ICE GRATIS! ICE GRATIS!
Blocks delivered free at Railway Station, packed so as to
carry to any part of the colony, for Us. 6d. per block extra.
Instructions sent with each package how to treat the
fish so that they will keep for several days. The fish are
obtained direct from the fishing ground, and guaranteed
perfectly fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will be Forwarded on receipt
of Post-office Ordor for the Amount.
|3y” All orders to he sent to the Works —
Kensington St., Sydney,
T. D. KYLE °~ Manager.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE C 0„
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles^.
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerins, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and.
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*.
To be had at all Grocers and. Storekeepers.
JOHN LAWLER
-A.ZUTZD SO ZESTS,
608, 610, 612 George Street
SYDNEY.
Bedding and Wire Mattress
MANUFACTURERS,
UPHOLSTERERS
AND
CABINETMAKERS.
The Largest Stockholders
OP
a-zE untie zr,_a.;l
FURNISHING REQUIREMENTS
IN ALL AUSTRALASIA.
Telephone No. 66.] [Established 1860.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLTN, Manager.
PARMER’S EXCHANGE, ALBUSY.
PA. BUOKHORN & CO., Produce Mer-
• CHANTS, have always on hand large
supplies of Oats, Chaff, Potatoes, Onions, Butter,
Cheese, and Eggs.
Chaff in any quantity sold in trucks at Albury
Station according to sample.
Orders Promptly Attended to.
MUSICAL.
"DATEXT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
1 Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. Cd., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
Jane: A Warning to Women.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
Her name was Jane—a simple name
Likewise a simple maiden ;
Her face was plain, her style the same,
Her heart with longing laden.
No fellow ever courted her,
Her mother dear supported her—
Which was rough on her ma.
Stage-struck was Jane—she had it bad j
She dreamed and raved about it,
And often said, in manner sad,
She couldn’t do without it.
A manager who well did know
Her trouble, offered her a show—
Which of course she jumped at.
She went around the country, and
At times played “ leading lady
Her acting, you can understand,
Was.just a trifle shady.
The. papers badly slated her,
Her fellow-players hated her;
The nasty, horrid things !
She loved the prompter—loved him well
And wisely—little stupid !
And oft to him the tale she’d tell,
Which she had learnt from Cupid.
He was a deep and knowing man,
And quietly had struck a plan
Which boded ill for Jane.
He swore her face was lovely ; that
Her figure was perfection,
The while he twirled and thumbed his hat,
Suggestive of dejection.
He spoke of bills of large amount;
In fact, he showed her one account
For fifty pounds or so.
By dint of working hard upon
Her sympathetic nature,
Her careful earnings soon he won
Before those bills could mature.
But still he was not half content;
He knew he had a “mug,” and meant
To “ break ” her, so to speak.
He coaxed what little jew’ls she had,
And made her sell her dresses,
And when she seemed a little sad
He soothed her with caresses.
While all the time he swore to wed
Poor Jane, who took in all he said
As if it was gospel.
The time came near for him to keep
The promise he had made her,
But, ah ! that prompter man was deep.
And basely he betrayed her.
For on the morning of the day
Which Jane had “named,” he fled away,
And she cried her eyes out.
Now he had always prompted Jane
In ev’ry part she'd taken,
But when she went to act again
Her memory was shaken.
She didn't know a single “ cue,”
Or what to say, or what to do.
She was simply dreadful.
The prompter who had been engaged
In place of her deceiver,
With Jane at once became enraged,
And heartlessly did leave her
To flounder through as best she might,
He wouldn't help to put her right,
And she got worse and worse.
She flopped and flounced and bounced about —
That prompter wouldn’t aid her—
And, as she couldn’t do without
The one who had betrayed her,
Why, by the “ gods ” poor Jane was hissed,
And by the management dismissed—
In fact, she was “chucked out.”
And never since has she set eyes
Upon that “prompt ” betrayer,
Who gulled her with his looks and lies
When Janet was a “player.”
And now she’s leading lady in
A laundry, and has “took ” to gin
And other bad habits.
FELIX AUST.
Melbourne.
My Australian Mare.
Born on' a far away slbck-farm run, and reared
from a thorough-bred-strain,
She was. shipp'd- with a herd for the- Indian mart
across the southern main.
The pride of the desert, the Turkoman’s boast, the
pick of the country fair,
In beauty or breed, in mettle.or speed, none match
my Australian mare.
The biggest fence and the broadest ditch, she
clears them in her stride,
With never a swerve in her steady spring, or a
“ peck ” on the landing side.
Pliant,-though eager, bold but sure, her mettle
never tires,
She'd hold her own with thefore most flight in the
best of English shires.
All ! the wild burst o’er fallow and sward on a
. galloping tasker’s line,
We flush the snipe from the edge of the marsh and
scatter the browsing k'ne.
Nor che kite o'er head with pinions spread floating
fairly free,
Has easier flight through the ether bright than I
on the saddle-tree.
Ah ! the mad dash for prize of place as the dark
rough hide draws near.
Then wheel about with triumphant shout, there’s
a stain on the glittering spear !
Now do thy best, for here’s the test, the fierce
boar turns at bay,
But staunch at need my peerless steed will bear
me to the fray.
Many a “ win ” and glorious “ spin ” tankard and
trophy attest,
And the delicate glove of my lady-love hath
stroked thy silken crest.
As she praised thy prowess and beauty of form,
by her sweet name I swear,
Nor food nor stall.shall then ever lack in old age,
my trusty mare.
BENGAL PAPER.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
£
m
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
belt;
>' •>
Si
H'
;'_S^
2 s *
wv
A NEVER FAILING CURB FOB ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM
N P ERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
md all weakness caused by indiscretion. J ams in the
luuaii rLr,nc. a Pfapiirnatiam
System WSSS « rtead/ and constantly felt; by
Fe wearer. It has great improvements over all other
wits we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept plymrat after they haw proved
.rives what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
, , n _ .( 1P sneciflc purpose of producing a continuous,
mild soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
d- atu to health and vigorou
sued parts
■ven the worst case permanently emeu m
it is more convenient to wear than any other Be It.
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
nonials from prominent people throughout Australia,
nd informing persons how they may obtain these belts
taWnaving for them until they have proved them com-
Dtitent*tef cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
L-marded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
ffiss- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Address.- yw 9ig> p 0 ( SyDNI!Y .
“Life Preservation,”
—BY—
Dr. J. D. LLEWLELLYN,
SPECIALIST,
10 LONSDALE ST., EAST, MELBOURNE.
THIS Work is a Medical Treatise describing
accurately, faithfully and concisely the
Functional Disorders and Diseases arising from
excesses, indiscretions, and other enervating
influences with their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men, with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to ail
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
PRICE per mail, 3s. 6d. (any Colonial stamps).
To be had of all Booksellers, or the Otto Publish
ing Co., 4 A’Beokett Street West, Melbourne.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Caution!
The Public are requested to notice the
words, i-f -" arose s Celebrated Eye
Motion, with the Trade Mark (a Hose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Eose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. -A-. IFLO^E,
Dispensing and. Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses,
j Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
pg” Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
JjpERVOUS DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, OF BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a Id., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain-
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mubsbn’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. fid. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address —
Herr Rass-Mnssen, “ Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
* MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MACHO MEAL
FOB FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and_POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst
“ I have tested a sample of the ‘ Maoio Meal ’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenic and have
to report, after a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon:— “l
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 35.; 141 b. ss. 6d. ; 561 b., 18s.
fid. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
31 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
COA
srr"
PATENT
V 3
PILLS
&
C
Medical.
WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings _of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, • cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. E ery
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth, a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAMS PILES for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the' human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS ’ tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Brotr hial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and vv ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. and 2s. 9d. each. Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Eucalypti Ou.sa
W\V\\'
THE TREE OF LIFE.
VirroßY Ointments
The only pure Encalypte in the World
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the ( hest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot -227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
rXIST PUBLISHED
A most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains information most valuable in Ner-
vous and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rules
are worth its weight in gold. Send youi full
address, and we will sepd Post Free One Copy,
aiven away for the next >ix Months Only. Write
to Professor R. T. SELBY Cleveland Street,
Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
Moore &_ Hogg
1-
the eminent
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases dTthe Genito urinary Organs,
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
2 CORBETTS BUILDINGS, corner of George
' and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOI.8ULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in advance), SiN Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Biti.letin will bo on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
BEST EN THE WORLD
for £3O.
Business Announcements
£2O BUOKBOASD BUCrCrIES £2 °
No. 45—Turnout Shat
COPE <sc W3E W AN»
BOG GO RO AD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
HARRIS'S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance Kinv or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency)
Evidence collected in nt\
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF s-ROMISE,
and all k inds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely bj Mr.
Bands.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRIH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained m any part
of the world.
8.8. H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address: 53 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY-
“ For F amiag ajieturejsat ni ’Well.”
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
e Stork, 399 Gkorgk-- t., Sydney (Opposite
Royal of el), is acknowledged to be the Bert and
Cheapest in he Colonies. b tos. , Engrayu gs,
&c., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gi ding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real go d edge..
pecial attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
The Largest Coach-
Works In Australia.
r
HAHueaeTußcns
I IHPORTCRS OF
HATS^APE
438 £ECIRCE hT
3YDNEY 1
PpposiCe Ltn-MCsrs
.i
ft
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
fr > Craig aart Aitken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD NEY.
IMPORTERS OF AU.THE
newestshapes.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
r
X
•1
'm
fIUCH’s
akinc
*>7
S' A
*/
POWDER
-zs*
:Si
manufactured BY
'JjIM£S CrtANNok cMariovrS* A&
Sold In/ all S.'JCfU) < S/oreAffitfO
Business Announcements.
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
liutT.
3PsaJ.e? Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents :
BALCHSN JOHNSTON & CO.,
SYDNEY.
M. B. Foster and Sous,
LONDON,
“BUGLE ” BRAND ALE & STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALB and.
STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed off
on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and
to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER and
SONS to this colony bear their name and
address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer pur
porting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand” offered
tor sale without these corks and capsules will be
esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
Itions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the
frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information
leading to conviction of the offenders.
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster and Sons.
SK FOR SUPPER’S ELBERFELD
L LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
Cl. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &c
Cooperage:
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market-st., SYDNEY.
Hotels.
T Ej=
dEO
» *
owoiNsjjmofus
BOWDEKT’S hotel,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C BO**DEN .. .. Proprietor.
PRINCE OE WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-st.,Bast, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience Centrally
Pi Minted;
JHL3XT HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
equipments of a First-Class Hotel with home
omforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Ely Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied, Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
Livery and letting Stabics.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thoa.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
SEORGE W. CLARE
Proprietor.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 3«s. to 2ls.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
Hide wears twice as long* as
any other leather.
x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
SBSa
?!
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only ,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Class, China and
earthenware.
WINES, BEERS <k SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
IMPORTER OE »
WIWE S > x SPIRITS, x BEZELS, x ETC.
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
•John AS,E^ N S Yowl's 'old) Whiskies.
The 2 SrAnw- ' S ' C '°? // W HISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L
| £S£i wines - The leadin * “
. r * nce of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Jsßtolesale anil jingle Bottle Departments, VS% anil vs* Sy3ney
SEND FOE A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAYATORY
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE; GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
-KTIB'W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
Now Supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
WOOL. WOOL
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Bridge St., Sydney.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* 1888*89+
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
'T'HE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
~ and Protecting all Wools entrusted tr
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sale,
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
tor sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &0., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on Application,
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
rnere is not a country in the civilised world where
wie nealmg virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
aihaente of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. KW” p ur .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pota
spu^)us^ reSS 18 n °k Oxford-street, London, they are
G
ENUINE SWEDISH MADE
CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C. A. FALSTEDT,
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
W* INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine Depots
IN
VICTORIA.
MELBOURNE
r Head Office : 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
-J New Coffee Palace, Bourke Street.
I 59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
t
K
Com
PLEXIO
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin; is
most cooling and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS' EUKOIMIA, a pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints— White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
ngtrs~^~
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting, &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
Australian R.ut)t)er Works
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i-IT Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY
By ARTHUR GAYT.T.
Profusely Illustrated by “Tbe Bulletin’s” well-known Artists
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY. *
Price
ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. sd,
May he had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Yictorian
Tasmanian
Queensland
Asemis
C ° llmS Str T et East ’
T tt f* eor g e " s treet, Launceston.
J. H. THOMPSON, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane
