

Aik fon
Gvoen lot
Fry's Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY A SONS, Bristol, London and Svdnbt,
“ An ordinary cap contain* move active properties of malt than a pint ol the beet Ale or Portev.
Elizabeth Street
Nitrous Oxide Gas administered for extracting teeth painlessly. Artificial Teeth inserted
without removing the roots when required.
GOLD FILLING A SPECIALITY.
N.B. —We respectfully beg the public not to make
any mistake in the address, as there are others of
the same name lately started, with whom we have
no connection.
ONLY ADDRESS- 133 ELIZABETH STREET.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
111
*
*
m
a
o
37
X
'tr.
o
<v
On nV
IS»R ROGER
c.vyi/D
w
o
\r
ID*
toil
v zl3
DIXSONS
Bzoelsior hotel, CHARTERS
TOWERS.
iMOBd Brick Hotel Building ere«ted“ln Above
llta»ted corner of Gill and Ohnroh Slreetr.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
PAIN
•* !881 MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES I AIIII PAIN
N?np^rV k T n A ow^^^d^ f ?r T . RHEIJMATI SM,
internal aches and pains.
PRICE , Ss. ... SOLD EVERYWHERE.
J. E. MOULTON, Sole Peopeietob,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
PAINT
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Renowned
English Lavender Water
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
ATKINSON’S
ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE,
Unrivalled for cleansing, beautifying
and preserving the Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark —“White Rose”on“Go.den
Lyre,” wath Address in full.
£LLAM A. MARSHALL ft CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
VmSBUS, Plumbers, Gaseitters, Ship ft General Smiths, Art ft Mbdlsval Metal Workers
Boiler Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already In use*
Importers and Manufacturers of Dlylng Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description In
boa or Brass, Ships’ Single and Doable Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appllanoeSi
TO* ACCOM9 WORKS, l Mae*urie Place. Sydney, and Stanmere Road, Petersham.
MMjJUAJV iJKUS., KlliL*, & tu,
IRONMON GEES,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
#l2 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
*
t
km f Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Ligbt,
ELECTROPLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
OAB COOKING STOVES LBONIS FLETCHER’S. JE A.NS k WALKER’S.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &o.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT. #
WAKTBD IK EVERT HOUSE.
KRUSES
ALL NOXIOUS-INSECTS
FI£AS.FL;£S BfETfXSMOSQUITOES.
COCKROACHES ‘V AND IS
at the smi^mtm i tt
HARM lE'S S I * OS -W GS
FOWLS OROThIr
ANiMALS ’.i'-s
i
0
cr .<y a
mm m *
AND SfO'S
FELTON' CRIMWADE.'y.C
- MELBOURNE
WASTED IWyIITHST HOTTCT.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE and Beware of
the numerous imitations &
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
64 COLLINS STREET EAST.
•aptUl
tad Aooraii OkplW
Eecelred .
T ear ending Tear ending
Oot., 1881. Oct., 1886.
<186,426 _ <360,000 _
61,630 _ 120,000 _
93,681 _ 961,600 _
193,948 _ 947,840 _
900,106 . 461,086 _
Tear ending Tear ending
Oot., 1887. Oot., 1888.
<431,126 _ £580,000
206,685 _ 251,015
891,356 - 1,123,949
807,828 _ 625,826
707,990 _ 9,048,951
Napodts rood red ok following Rates .*—l2 monkhe, 7 par cent.; 6 monkhe, 6 per
«enk.} S monkhe, 6 per cent. Special Terme for longer periods.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
Vo Persons who desire ko
wish ko eeonre INTERESI
JBT DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
TRENCH offers khe very beat opportunity. Depositors in this branch
.to nrJtper cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance,
Aim FUVDI for Borrowers. TESKS LIBE&AL.
wm
■SO wtek
friRY
Ik r&i
IS
JL
im
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
OAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of la. pe
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payment# upon these Shares an la
per Fortnight until anch Payments, together with Compound Interest),
amount to £26, when that sum is paid over to their holders la
The holders of tne First Issue of these Shares received In Ootebss*
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed ea%
£l4 65., at the rata of Is. per Fortnight for 11 yean.
Hon. Jen Bran 10, M.P.. J.T., _ _ Chairman.
WH.LIAM DOHBKTO - - Aettnc-Soerotarr.
fi
J-
|% iter.bilflf r : ’3l if
XS ® v ® if , |(iil~f V ' :. i
; v;i :jj'.vi-s -73rSi5i5Ei« ii 11 iit •'
U r.iii nJ. ! 1 1 1 U i H * l
Si I m
it'v'W
&LS
THE -
Federal coffee Palace,
oobnik or
2Ziaa.gr Colliaa-s Streets, 2v£elToo - o.raa.e,
Containing 500 BOOMS, la now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and TrHe
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL •« GROUND FLOOR
With excellent Afenh, presided over by ns experienced OMf, assisted by n civil end obliging sfeaC. *
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMS.
HOT, COLD uid SHOWER RATHH.
NIGHT POSTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY wwwr.Twn m
George Cohen - Manaaer


The Bulletin
Vol.lo—Ho 470.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1889.
Price, 6d.
Ml
The Late Peter Lalor.


The Bulletin
The National Australian newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South W ales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 ° 0
Half-yearly n e G
Quarterly
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
u The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire, those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct fo The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bi lletin' posted regularly to you every week
for. a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bt'lletix is not delivered by mad, hut is entirely
ip the hands of our carriers, with whpm ice do not wish
to interfere.
jfe'SfcvlMM.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10. 1889
One Man, One Vote.
The political equality of all free men must
be made a main plank in the forth-
coming platform of New South Wales
Nationalism. On no other basis can Demo-
cratic government exist. Once depart from
this principle in the smallest degree and you
set up a class to govern and a class to be
governed. Manhood suffrage Is a delusion
and a snare unless every man’s vote weighs
equally In the political scale against that of
his fellow. Without this you get serfdom,
pure and simple, In one or other of its
various forms. Under the present New
South Wales Electoral Law we get manhood
suffrage, but It is In the form of a grinning
caricature upon the real principle. The
ballot box masquerades in the form of Demo-
cracy, but Its voice is the distinct voice of
“ proppuby.” The unthinking elector of
New South Wales rests under the delusion
that when he Is outvoted on any political
issue submitted to the country there Is neces
sarlly a preponderance of public opinion
against his view, and, like a good citizen, he
bows to what he imagines Is a fair expression
of the people’s will. He Is a fool.
* * *
The theory of the present New South
\Yales representative system gives the prin-
ciple of manhood voting the lie direct. It
appoints landed property-owners a distinct
and separately privileged governing class.
'Yhis Is, of course, accomplished hy a dodge,
but not accomplished any the less success-
fully on tha,t account. Were lb attempted
In apy other way lb would never have suc-
ceeded at all. Had the New South Wales
Constitution Act put the case as it really is
that statute would have become waste paper
long ago and a new Democratic Charter of
Nationality would not be the crying neces-
sity that it is now. There are 137 members
to be elected bo the new Assembly to decide
by their votes whether the fiscal policy of
the mother colony shall ba Foreign-trade or
Protection. The assumption Is that this
clear issue has been submitted to the
manhood of New South Wales, who have
all had an equal voice In the selection of
these 137 representatives. That is how the
framers of the electoral law have been care •
ful to put it, and, so far, the gross and
fraudulent Imposture has succeeded. They
begin by giving every man his vote, which
deludes every man Into Imagining himself a
full-blown elector. lie has been trusted not
to notice the essential difference that is made
In his political status when every other man
gets an extra vote, and up to the present it
does not seem to have struck him with any
great force that there is any difference.
• • •
But let us put the case the other way.
The electoral law at present provides that
the New South Wales Parliament shall be
elected by popular vote, and that the maxi-
mum number of votes any one man can
legitimately record is 137. If a man holds a
time-payment allotment in each electorate of
the colony he is entitled to vote for every
member to be returned ; If he is the owner
of no land anywhere, but merely the pos-
sessor of a brain which would make his death
a national calamity, his political privilege
only extends to the recording of one vote !
So that in the latter case, Instead of being a
full-blown elector of New South Wales, he is
only made the hundred and thirty-seventh
fraction of one. Supposing it were now
proposed to enact as follows by way of es-
tablishing a system of representative Go-
vernment for the colony : “A f ully-pr ivileged
elector cf New South Wales shall have the
right to record 137 votes ; the partially-
privileged from that number down to one
according to the amount of landed property
owned by each individual I ” That is precisely
what has been enacted under the name of
establishing in New South Wales a free form
of Democratic Government ! ! !
* * *
On the fiscal issue now before the people
of New South Wales it is possible, under the
Constitution, for two men of equal intelli-
gence to go to the poll and one to count in
the voting as 137, while the other counts
only as one ! The unit of integrity is there-
fore, as matters stand, fixed at 137. A man
who holds property enough to command this
number of votes is the fully privileged elec-
tor, while all others are In various stages of
partial enfranchisement until we come down
to the landless man who counts in the fiscal
poll as but 137th fraction of one. The elec-
toral system advisedly makes it possible for
one man to exercise 137 times the political
power of another, and it is only a matter of
money and organisation for any section of
the people to make use of this provision
of the law for the purpose of getting abto-
lute control over the country. Take, for
instance, the case of the squatters. All it
wants is some man of Napoleonic motives
to put before them a plan whereby they can
float a political company to qualify, say, a
couple of hundred votes, more or less as
might be required, in every electorate of the
colony. This would be enough to turn
moat elections, and they could then get a
Land Act of their own. Less than 20,000
time-payment allotments would do it.
The recent vote cast in the Sydney con-
stituencies for Foreign-trade was one which
very largely partook of this “faked” char-
acter. Every Calico-Jemmy with a shop or
office in Sydney, lives in one or other of the
suburbs, and most of them own allotments
in several. The Calico-Jemmy’s clerk —a
poor creature generally, who slaves at his
master’s desk from nine In the morning till
eleven at night for about half the wages of a
bricklayer—lives out in the suburbs and has
“to keep up a position, dontcherknow.”
He does this by apeing, along with the
pot hat and white waistcoat of his slave-
driving employer, the latter’s political hos-
tility towards the “ wawking man.” He is
duly provided with a faked vote for the
office, has another vote for the constituency
in which he lives, and probably has a time-
payment allotment in some other electorate
round about. These are the sort of votes by
which the whole of the metropolitan consti-
tuencies are swamped. And it is on this vote
that the Foreign-trade press now openly relies
for resisting the country’s advance towards
Protection. The Daily Telegraph admits
that all Its hopes are now centred in the
metropolitan vote overpowering that of the
country —otherwise, in the power of the
politically duplicated Calico-Jemmy as
against that of the less enfranchised selector,
labourer, and artisan. And, no doubt, now
that matters have reached this stage, every
effort will be made to keep on multiplying
the merchant vote for the purpose which the
Daily Telegraph plainly hints at. Des-
perate situations suggest desperate expe-
dients, and there is nothing at all Impractic-
able in the idea of organising a time-payment
contingent on the lines already in existence
by which the great Protectionist majority of
single voters would be rendered absolutely
impotent. Let the National Party, there-
fore, lose no time in reforming the electoral
laws on the principle of one vote for one
man and the majority to rule. Until this is
done the people’s cause will always carry a
crushing handicap.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Vote of Brinks and Earth.
The problem of John Smith and his as?, and the
question whether the vote is centre! in Smith
himself or In the ass which furnishes Smith s
qualification to be a free and independent elector,
Is one which will have to be settled shortly in
Australia. So far, the present New South Wales
election has been maintained chiefly by the suf-
frage of John Smith's ass. The vote of the county
of Cumberland has practically swamped that of
the colony at large, and the predominant vote in
Cumberland is the vote of “ Proputty,” the dead
weight of bricks and mortar crying aloud at the
poll, the brainless incubus of earth overwhelming
the deep-rooted convictions of the ration. In
Sydney, as was pointed out by Mr. Traill, the
able Democrat returned at the head of the poll for
South Sydney, the wealth of the land is centred,
and it is wealth, not men, which votes in New
South Wales. Manhood suffrage, in the mother
state of the Australias, has never yet existed. In
the capital city there are gathered together some
3000 mm with an aggregate of from 21,000 to
30,000 votes —dull, stupid men, with an allotment
in ten different constituencies, more or less, and a
vote for each allotment; narrow, grasping, white-
waistcoated men, with long rows of terraces,
every house of which raises its separate tongue at
the polling-booth ; dense, illiterate men, who are
holding land for a rise in a dozen scattered elec-
torates, and who are multiplied a dozen times at
the poll because of the land which they hold ;
everywhere New South Wales is ruled by land,
and houses, and wharves, and office-premises, in-
stead of by intellect and manhood. And hitherto, at
every election the block vote of all this senseless, in-
animate wealth has gone in support of the Foreign-
trade interest, New South Wales has been run,
almost since the first day of its establishment, for
the profit of the merchants and importers of the
colony, and a great importing monopoly has grown
up, which holds almost all the accumulated riches
of the country, and which possesses nearly as
many suffrages as all the rest of the toiling nation.
The manufacturing interest, which, by its solid
vote, ni’ght counterbalance the inanimate weight
cf the McMillions’ stone fronted warehouses, is
practically non-existent; and thus the country is
ruled exclusively by bricks and mortar, and
against this rule there is practically no appeal.
It requires the united suffrages of probably
24,0C0 Protectionist workmen to hold the scale
level against 3,000 Sydney merchants and busi-
ness men, who, by virtue of an office in a city
street, and a suburban residence, and a wharf on
the shores of the harbour, and a few patches of
land here and there, and a membership in one or
two city clubs, are each authorised to vote in from
ten to twenty separate electorates, and thus mul-
tiply themselves almost ad infinitum. The Free-
trade vote is the vote of the Burdekins and
the McMillions and the rest cf the mighty
landlords and softgoods men of New South
Wales; the Protectionist vote is the vote of the
proletarian who is ruined by Freetrade and cheap
foreign competition; and consequently the Pro-
tectionist is only a unit while the Freetrader is a
host. Pabkks himself tacitly acknowledged this
fact when he urged his Bathurst supporters to
swamp Protection in the Macquarie electorates,
by invading that district to vote for their allot-
ments and their outlying properties, and his
followers recognised the same great principle
when they imported a Freetrade gathering from
Goulburn and thereby swamped the Protectionist
majority at Argyle. If New South Wales is ever
to be free to express its opinions at the poll it
must have Manhood Suffrage pure and simple;
each elector must be authorised to vote once on
the ground that he is an able-bodied male white
citizen and in full possession of his senses,
and on this ground alone the suffrage must be
exercised. The decision of the ballot-box must
be the declaration of the sentiments of men, not
of stone and bricks and mortar and senseless
earth; and on the grand Democratic principle
that all men wore born free and equal the import-
ing magnate must give up his ten or twenty fold
vote and stand on the same plane as the toiler who,
like him, was also made in God's image. The
difference between the two is one of ex-
ternal circumstances only. The much-multi-
plied Freetrader is possessed of no more
intelligence or humanity than his less wealthy
countryman, and the man with ten votes is made
of no finer earth than the man with only one.
The present electoral system is a disgrace to the
Democracy of New South Wales and its result is
to wipe out in one act the whole effect of that
suffrage which is said to rest upon the voice of
the nation. The voice of the nation, in truth, has
never yet been able to make itself heard in the
mother colony. The whispered cry of the masses
is drowned by the loud-mouthed vote of brick
tenements, and muddy wharves, and t states in
eligible situations and eminently fitted for sub-
division, and stuffy offices, and corner blocks, and
dummied selections, and other inanimate things,
and the combined suffrage of animals, vegetables
and minerals swamps the political convictions of
the nation’s manhood and buries them a hundred
fathoms deep beneath a mountain of calico and
shoddy.
Arithmetical Perjury,
On Wednesday, February 6, the Sydney Echo
successfully demonstrated by arithmetic that it
was a greater fool than it looked, and denser in its
intellect than might have been expected. With a
rashness unbecoming its years it started out to
prove that, despite the adverse majority returned
at that date, New South Wales was voting solid for
the old Pro-trade Freetection policy of Henry
Paekks, and having written down in two parallel
columns the votes returned for each candidate, it
added up the totals and announced with a whoop
that Freetrade had scored 134 204 votes against
115,989 cast for Protection, and that the
country, consequently, contained 18,000 more
Freetraders than Protectionists. In arriv-
ing at this decision the Echo displayed an
amount of ingenuity which, if applied to some
elevated branch of the ham and provision trade,
would ensure the speedy acquirement of a fortune.
The total votes for the four shoddy candidates
who went to the poll in East Sydney were com
pared with the votes for the two Protectionists in
the same electorate, and the Foreign-trader who
voted four times, being added up and placed
against the Protectionist who votel twice only,
gave a majority of 9630 for the cause which the
Echo sheds its office ink to bolster up. In
reality there were only some 3894 Freetrade
against 2503 Protectionist voters, but the
halo of arithmetic which is soldered round the
figures multiplies this majority seven-fold.
At St, ,J Leonards the suffrages for the four
Foreigmtrade candidates were also added up and
compared with those for the solitary Protecti mist,
who, if he had been four men, would probably
have scored four times the votes with precisely
the same number of voters, and thus another fic-
titious majority of some 4500 is added to the
alleged Foreign-trade phalanx. No allowance
whatever is made for the votes of the fourteen
constituencies where Protectionist candidates
were returned unopposed, though the mere fact
that there were no contests in all these instances
serves to show that the majority for Protection
was too obvious and overwhelming to make oppo-
sition possible. Altogether, the Echo’s list bursts
up hopelessly on careful analysis, and considering
the eminently pious, not to say doleful, character
of the paper, it can only be regretted that
the analysis was not made before publication,
and the document audited and initialled by the
leading clergymen of Sydney, so as to avoid any
suspicion of a desire to wilfully garble figures and
monkey with the eternal truth. The Echo has
hitherto maintained with success a reputation for
being stupid but honest and a great deal more
stupid than honest, the stupidity being natural
and the honesty acquired by laborious effort; and
it has lived so long on this public estimate of its
character that it would he ruinous to disabuse the
minds of its readers by proving that though the
stupidity was all there the honesty was gone.
And yet this is just what will happen unless the
penny journal takes warning and leaves the
slippery paths of figures for the more solid founda-
tion of local drainage items and other subjects
which are not calculated to raise a blush, &c , &o.
+
The Sinfulness of Committees.
The S.M. Herald has been visited by a new
affliction, and it issues a shriek in large type about
the anguish of the New South Wales political
situation and the grief which is gnawing at its
vitals :—
What Is Protection ? The question has been asked fre-
quently of late, and has received various answers. A
notice published in behalf of the joint hon. secretaries ol
the National Protection Association throws some light
upon the subject. It appears from the notice that the
association has a committee. The committee, after con-
ferring with local Protectionist bodies, “ adopts ” a full
number of Protectionist candidates for each electorate.
It is also to be gathered from the notice that sometimes
there are'other Protectionist candidates besides the
adopted ones, and these are requested by the committee
to withdraw. When any one ol them refuses to accede
to the request, the ukase of the committee is that h
shall be published in the newspapers circulating m th®
electorate, and by other means if necessary, that such re-
fractory candidate is a rebel against discipline, and is noi
to be supported by Protectionists; and that further »
Black List be started to contain the names of suon
mutineers who shall be rendered ineligible as candidates
for any seat in future.” What are we coming to •
Whither are we drifting ? Are we under martial law t
It is worth noticing just here that one of the
things which the Herald feels desperately baa
about is that the Protectionists “ have a cow
mittee.” The Foreign-trade party also have a
committee, but the Herald doesn’t feel bad abou
that. At last New South Wales elections it wa
the business of the Foreign-trade committee
select candidates, to squash weak or ° u jj
men whose presence on the list of woui •
be members threatened the loss of a sea»
and generally to boss everything u* .
interests of imported drygoods and
hardware ; and through the action of 1
committee the badly-organised Protection
His Epitaph.
Here lies a man—by no means free from faults—
Who sought to win renown by his assaults
On purer men. Who never paid a debt,
Whose simple plan was favours to forget.
Who rose by dragging other tribunes down,
And brooked no rival near his mimic crown.
Forget his faults. Let tears efface each crime—
He was religions at elect iontime.
What though he waved on high the “Bloody
Shirt,”
And, despot like, dragged Freedom through the
dirt —
What though he made men’s baser passions rend
The peace his vows had pledged him to defend!
What though he gained his power by laying claim
To Acts he never owned the skill to frame?
What though he crept to power through crooks
and slime,
He teas religious at election-time.
Cursed by ambition, though he used the State
But as a means to ape the truly great;
What though the needed measures of the day,
He made subservient to place and pay ;
Though charlatans he champions who agree
To fool with phrases those who’d fain be free ?
He gains full pardon by an act sublime,
He was religious at election-time.
Suppose he lived a scarcely moral life,
Suppose he stirred up rank sectarian strife ;
Lived most luxuriously and made a trade
Of borrowing and owing—never paid ;
Suppose he fleeced alike both large and small
And pilfered from the poor their little all 5
His sins are blotted now and for all time,
He was religious at election-time.
Granted he had a specious, glczing tongue
That o’er his peccadilloes glamour flung;
Granted that in the hustings’ heat and din
He made the absent scapegoats for his sin,
And used the vices in his soul most rife
As whips to scourge e’en those of cleaner life ;
He ’scapes all scatheless, wings to brighter clime,
He was religious at election-time.


went down in a heap. Ua the present occasion,
however, the organisation is about equal on either
side, and therefore the Herald raises its inky cry
to the listening heavens, and sends forth the blast
of its burning indignation at the inhuman corrup-
tion which allows any side except its own to
“have a committee.” So far, the Protectionist
candidates have been selected in almost every
instance by the local Protectionist organisations,
and as these consist of all the local Protectionists
who take sufficient interest in their cause to lend
a hand in its support, the candidates have literally
been chosen by the people, the central body merely
endorsing the action of the electors. Beyond this
the only duty of the much cursed _ committee has
been to expose the so-called Protectionists who were
put up by the miserable treachery of the shoddy
party for the purpose of splitting the National
vote, and thereby giving a chance for some im-
porters’ dummy to head the poll —the bogus Inde-
pendents, tbs Orange Pup candidates, the men of
Social Purity and gimlet-hole fads* and all the
miscellaneous hangers-on who, instead of being
selected by the people, were selected only by
themselves. The men whose names figure on the
black lists of the party are merely those who have
defied the decision of the local electors, and the
question at issue between the Protectionist com-
mittee and the Herald is whether the whole
mass of the Protectionists or the Herald shall
select the candidates to represent the National
party. And the Herald, after all, is merely another
dame for a self-constituted committee of those two
painfully ordinary individuals, James Fairfax
and Editor Curnow, so the dispute resolves itself
into the two-man tyranny of James Fairfax and
Editor Curnow versus the self-imposed duciplme
of the whole mass of the New South Wales Pro-
tectionist following. It is because New South
Wales has hitherto been governed too much by
the self-appointed committee of Fairfax and
Curnow with themselves in the chair that the
Protectionist party now has a committee of its
own, and it is because nothing short of rigid
organisation will enable the people to have a voice
-which is not the voice of Fairfax and Curnow
-iii the Control of their own affairs, that the body
which has been the cause of so much Ire has
adopted its present system. And, thanks to this
gysterh, the old two-man show is practically busted
up and it is for this reaton that the Herald
raves in print to prove that a free people are not
free to “ have a committee ” except by permission
of the angry “ organ ” in the two-faced three-
cornered building in Hunter-street and demands
that that rampant twopennorth of Ponderous
Respectability shall be the irresponsible autocrat
of New South Wales.
— ♦
The Eye of the Church,
The loud-mouthed Orange pup reached his loudest
at Mudgee—the place where Ah Haynes used to
flourish ; and a few days previous to the poll the
mangy animal arrived in that town at a pitch of
frenzy that was awful in its intensity- In the
Mudgee Independent especially the ruined cur
barked up two columns of large print and half-
way down a third to this tune : —
Bk on the Alert 1 Our Public Schools are in
Danger.
Protectionists have bought the Block Roman Catholic
vote at an enormous piiae, namely: —
Surrender of our Schools to the handling of the Roman
Catholic Church. , ,, _ , T
Read tte following Eye-Opener as to the Real Issue now
before you. Ask j ourself how it is that all through the
Colony the Catholics are going for Protection. Is there
anything behind this ominous silence ? What is the price
pail the Catholics for being so passive in this Election,
and allowing Freetrade and Protection to blind the
Electors’ eyes to ths real matter at stake :
Then follows a copy of the Even Noose article,
headed “ An Ominous Silence,” in which that dis-
credited paper complains that the are
doing nothing and saying nothing, and have given
up alluding to the Secular Education question,
and don’t take any notice of the bow-wow
of the Orange pup, and in which it points out
that because they aren’t saying anything the
Catholics must be thinking an awful lot. In fact
the News occupies the same position as the
Sydney man who thrashed his wife because she
talked too much, and then when she gave up
talking whaled her to make her say something.
It howled in days gone by because the Catholics
objected to secular education, and now that they
have given up objecting the News complains be-
cause they don’t object when it wants them to.
The Roman Cliurch hasn’t said anything
in the present contest, but the Evening
Bennett considers that the denomination
has “ regarded it in a conthradickthory
manner wid its oi,” and it is madder in
consequence than it ever was, even in the days
when it used to curse the Catholic Church for not
doing what it curses it for doing now. The
Catholics now say nothing about the Education
question because the Romish laity are satisfied,
and the priests—if they are dissatisfied -are un-
able to galvanize their flocks into fresh _ activity
over a question which they have long since for-
gotten.
-4
“ Absolute Purity of Government.”
The Sydney D.T. of Saturday contains a ba’my
letter from a person signing himself “ Eucalyptus. *
in which he proposes that the nigger should turn
white, that the leper should change his spots and
the devil get a new toil, and in a large sort of way
that Barabbas should take his stand among the
prophets. This is the gentle way he puts it
Immediately the House assembles the Freetrade mem-
bers should organise themselves into a compact party to
secure not only non-inteiterenoe with * he tar, u> but ab-
solute purity of Government; th y should not counten-
ance, no matter which side is in power, the inclusion of
any member in the Min-'stry against whose character,
either private or public, any scandal has been proved;
and they should deal mercilessly with any offender
against aood behaviour in Parliament. They should be
tuflioienily powerful by uni ltd efforts to do this, and
having accomplished it and by acting up to it they could
at the next gcaeral election meet their consiitueats with
much greater confifence, and secure not only bne united
freetrade vote, but also the support of a large party of
electors who prefer purity of Government to fiscal
opinions.
Great Soott ! Parkes ’ supporters protesting
against the inclusion in the Government of
any Minister against whose character any scandal
has been proved. And PARKES himself !
Weeping Rack bl 11 Shades of the Kiama Ghost!
Circular Quay land job 1 Burnsby Horns and
the famous road-making operations ! Vision
of the ruined Macnamara and the old men
and women who speculated in Parkes land at
North Shore I Memories of the old libel action,
Pa likes v. Webb ! Spectre of the tramway job !
Ministry composed of men who lent I arkks
money! ‘ Red-hot, lurning brand of shame!
Milburn Creek 1 A bigail's loan office 1 Mountain
Maid! old insolvency schedules! Treason Felony
Act 1 Prudential Insurance Company ! 1 oster s
judgeship 1 grovel! deficiency ! financial muddle 1
»nin ! Suffering Moses ! Let us have the loan of
i to strike the tuneful lyre on the
subject of Parliamentary purity! And theni on
top of nil this Parkes and his party are bo deal
insrcTlossly with any offender against good b.ba-
viour in Parliament.” Think of that! “ Thieve*,
crimp?, stild blacklegs !” “Withered tarantula !”
“ Go out and bark with the other dogs !” “ Who
the devil are you!” “Dick Turpin!” “Mole-
eyed nonentity!” “ Craven-spirited, poodle-
beaded, creeping creature!” M'Elhone! Haynes!
Abigail ! general blackguardism ! Shade of
Balaam's ass, what is “ Eucalyptus ” driving at?
4
The Incubus and the Incubator.
The mind of the Sydney Foreign-trade journalist
is sorely exercised. Hear him babble : —
Why do we talk of cheap labour on the European con-
tinent flooding our markets? Most of the European
countries are heavily protected and if the Protectionists
speak truly, the wages should be higher.
The labour of most European communities is
enabled to flood our markets simply because Pro-
tection has afforded it an opportunity of utilising
natural advantages. The Protection that creates
wealth, however, like Freetrade, has nothing to
do with equity of distribution. Wages on the
“continent” are lower than in Australia, not be-
cause wealth is lees plentiful, but solely because
the cost of living is lower, and also the standard
of living, in many cases. Where the standard of
living is high, and opportunities of labour are
afforded, the high mental and physical status of
the toiler will impel him to maintain the higher
standard of living by combination. When Foreign-
trade reduces opportunities by an undue increase
of competition, caused by the introduction of
goods made by workers whose standard of living
is low, then the worker is dragged down to the
lower level of those with whom he is thus unfairly
forced to compete. Protection supplies a barrier
against this pressure from without towards the
marginal line that separates subsistence from
starvation, while trades-unionism erects a barrier
against any down-dragging competition that may
arise within. While the world coni airs workers
on various plateaux, mental and physical, Foreign-
trade must prove an incubus to the industries and
industrious of the superior races; while Protec-
tion will continue to act as an incubator, develop-
ing national moarces, fostering industries and
furnishing opportunities of labour to the toilers,
whose intelligent combination has the power to
fix their rate of pay.
♦ —
Dear Bulletin,— One naturally expects in read-
ing a speech from the Throne, delivered on
such an occasion as the opening or closing
of an International Exhibition, to find, if
not a display of elegant writing, at all
events a composition such as might do credit
to a i choolboy and tolerably free from gramma-
tical errcrs. Seldom have I met with so
dilapidated, slipshod, ungrammatical a production
as the address given by Ills Excellency the Go-
venor of Victoria at the closing ceremony of the
Centennial Exhibition. Take ths following speci-
mens ; —
The success of the Exhibition has been, I venture to be-
lieve, largely promoted by the opportunities which its
being open at night has afforded to thousands of visiting
and carefully inspecting the exhibits, who might from
their daily avocations have been otheiwise deprived of
the power of doing so, &c , &o.
Tne great appreciation that the public have shown in
the concerts under Mr. Cowbn s leadership has developed
the effort which is now being put forth that the pleasure
and instruction that have been derived, &c , &c.—and
one most interesting and commendable incident, & \
Bat, gentlemen, while 1 have mentioned the wonderful
results, &o., while I have referred to the intellectual en-
joyments, <Sco., 1 would also draw attention to, &o., &c.
The admirable manner in which my Commissioners
have administered the affairs of the Exhibition may, I
trust, result in the extension of commercial and friendly
relations between the people of these colonies and of those
nations who, &o., &c.
My youngest boy at school, aged 13, studies,
among other branches of knowledge, the English
language, I will venture to give edds—say, ten
to one—that he will string together an equal
number of sentences, which shall contain fewer
lapses in grammar and faults of composition. The
Australians have reason to complain, as the
Americans do, that while they select their envoys
and representatives from the most eminent and
scholarly of their citizens, the British Govern-
ment send out only aristocratic noodles. Lord
Salisbury has generously promised us a constant
and practically unlimited supply.— Democrat,
Melbourne, 5th February.
4
The Evening News has shed some big blotches of
printer’s ink over the nomination of Mr.
M'Laughlin (one of the defeated Protectionist
candidates at Paddington) for G uudagai, in at-
tempting to make out that his candidature pre-
vented a Freetrader coming forward to oppose
Mr. Barnes, the Protectionist candidate already
in the field. As far as may be understood from
the Noose’s incoherent bellowings, Mr. M'Laugh-
lin hired a special train on the Sunday evening
after his defeat at Paddington, and bobbed up
serenely at Gundagal on Monday in time for
nomination. Why this extravagance on Mr.
M'Laughlin’s part should have prevented the
Foreign-trade organisation in Sydney from also
taking a special train and sending up a rep« senta-
tive to Gundagai, or the local body from selecting
one after their “alleged” own heart, is not plain.
The rabid Freetrader, head down, eyes bloodshot,
foaming at the mouth, with the kettle of sectarian
dissension tied to his tail, feels sure that some one
must be attacked. Whom to attack, and bow to
attack him, is not so obvious ; meantime, a con-
tinuous snapping and snarling fills up time,
gratifies “ Smudgy ” Haynes, and hurts no one.
4.
Thus the Argus drivels over the prospect of Pro-
tection outside the Cabbage Garden: “New
Sbuth Wales is poorer if she has not the resources
of Victoria to fall back upon, and Victoria will be
worse off withom the New South Wales market.
The poor old Argus chooses to shut all its eyes
except that which fixes a glassy stare upon the
land of Gillies With Protection in New South
Wales will giadually disappear any necessity for
falling back upon the resources of Victoria, be-
cause New South Wales will be supported by its
own resources. And for what a weary waste of
years has New South Wales been worse off with-
out the Victorian market! The Argus hasn’t got
that question within its range of vision. It has
long comforted a number of bloated old gentle-
men by keeping up a monotonous moan
against the evils of Protection, and now
artlessly admits that the ruinous policy
of Victoria has built up something which
enlightened New South Wales Freetrade
was forced to fall back upon. Again, in attempt-
ing to prove that the adoption of Protection by
all the Australian colonies must result in a loss to
each, that horgan is out of harmony with the
voice of common sense The land is the source of
all wealth—barring only the fishes in river, lake,
or ocean. Land provides the materials for manu-
factures and the money for manufacturing. And
while the land of Australia remains where it is,
the continent, as a whole, has at its command a
certain amount of wealth, which no internal fiscal
policies can reduce. •
Consulting the Chinese Doctor.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
In that Sydney square which is called
Wynyard dwells a Chinese doctor. Not a low-
class Manchurian disease dispeller dabbling in
duck’s blood, dragon’s teeth, and other evil-smell-
ing concoctions. No ordinary Chinese cracker,
though his enemies say he was once an excellent
plain cook, but a regular big bomb, a man of rank
in his own country, and of some financial import-
ance in this land of ours. This expatriated Man-
darin resides in a fine three-story mansion, which
he purchased seme years ago from its former occu-
pant, “ Dr.” Bottrell, fer the nice little sum of
£8700, Its front would betray no evidence of the
nationality of its owner, were it not that some
gilded demons gape fiercely from its balcony down
on the passers-by, and that the name on the brass
door-plate has a forced-cabbage twang about it.
At the rear a high brick wall stares the inquisitive
out of countenance ; a barricade erected, it is said,
for the purpose of shielding the five Mongolian
maidens who perform the doctor’s housework
from the curiosity and rude attentions of the West
Sydney larrikin. It is, however, probable that it
serves another purpose in precluding the Yum-
Turns ccoped up inside from showering their smiles
upon the radish-rearing Ro-Mcot at Rockdale or
Botany.
* * •
Having carefully explored the outside of
this mysterious edifice one morning, a man might
have been seen carefully opening its creaky iron
gate, cautiously scaling three very clean doorsteps,
and staidly standing on the door-mat, while large
drops of perspiration rolled down his curly locks
and splashed like the first drops of a thunder shower
from his large and heated forehead into the shoe-
scraper. This was us—we mean we. This, then,
was we. In our humble way we have had much
experience among the medicos of many lands,
but among all our drug-swallowing, monsy part-
ing reminiscences, on no occasion could we recall
the memory of the supreme felicity attained by
thrusting out cur tongue at a Chinese doctor.
Therefore, were we to be found standing on the
Manchurian’s mat, while we raised a defiant alarm
on his bell-pull. Tinkle-inkle-kle-ee, it sounded
through the quiet house; one, two, three minutes
passed; then the heavy door was gently opene d,
and the sweet, intelligent, olive face of a shapely,
well-dressed little lady of eight or nine Australian
summers looked out inquiringly. “Can we see
the doctor?” we asked persuasively. “Do you
wish to see the doctor professionally ?” returned
little almond-eyes, with a slight stress on the
“pro,” “Yes,” said we modestly. “Then
kindly step this way,” smartly said the little one,
leading us towards a large room that faced the
street.
• * #
Here no Chinatown odours made the air
heavy ; instead, the perfume of many roses came
gratefully to the apprehensive nostrils. In this
apartment incongruity was lord —or, rather, a
triangular duel was being fought between the fix-
ings of a Chinese pagoda, those of a cigar-shop's
back room, and the furniture of an ordinary Syd-
ney sitting-room. Hideously devised j ars of por-
c°Iain and metal, with other grotetque ornaments
of Chinese make, were scattered freely about,
while, excepting one large cabinet, the furniture
was English and Austrian in style, even if of
Chinese manufacture. Oj the wall some gilt mir-
rors of the plain French fashion were intersected
by pictures of the anti-perspective Chinese school
and portraits In the Lower George-street coloured
and enlarged photograph style. Seme what
stared out of countenance by the gnomes and
mandarins that glared from every quarter of the
room, we sat looking at a child’s picture book and
peeping out through the gilt window grille into
the sun-lit gardens, till we heard a weightier foot
among the “ pitter-patter ” of the little ones in
their play room on the other side of the folding-
doors. Then said we to ourselves, ‘ 1 Let us dis-
semble.” So we groaned slightly, and coughed
vigorously, finishing up with a lung-expander
that apparently made the stony mandarins by
whom we were environed wink because we had
coughed, and frown angrily because they had
winked.
• • •
We were almost black In the face when
the door opened quietly. A little, dried-up,
grizzled man of unmistakeable nationality came
slowly in. You see the man, or someone just as
distingui, between two panniers of green stuff in
your streets daily, his face patient and inscrut-
able ; eyes bleary and unfathomable; head
bowed; and gait listless and shuffling. Our
paroxysm over, we arose to greet him, and he
looked at us so suspiciously that we felt cimpelled
to “go for him all we knew.” It is by no means
difficult for us to look foolish; nature, in this
respect at all events, has dealt bountifully with
us, indeed. As for talking foolishly, that we can
do with fluency in at least 15 dead and living
languages, besides several that may be classed as
yet unborn for want of an accoucheur of the
Johnsonian pattern. “ We are very ill, doctor,”
said we, wearily, “ and want your advice.”
“Sy’ney genelman?” said he. “No, Wagga
Wagga, but doctors there no good, and Sydney
doctors, if possible, worse.” “Been ill long?”
“About three weeks.” “How long you in
Sy’ney?’ “A fortnight, doctor.” “Anyone
send yen here?’ “Yes, So and So,” giving the
name of one of the Chinese doctor’s former
patients. At this staje of the proceedings the
suspic'ous Inquiring look became less perceptible,
and the brown man said in a cautioning way,
“Mymedesin welly dear, mind.” To which we
replied that expense might be blowed, likewise
flabbergasted ; we were in search of health, filthy
lucre was not even a secondary consideration.
Tbeti the little man capitulated, fend leading us
across a tiled hall, up a fine staircase, turned into
a side room, from whose threshold we caught a
peep of a nicely-carpeted drawing room and a fine
oak cabinet.
* * *
We then entered the Doctor’s consulting,
room, a plainly furnished apartment on whose
walls were numerous gallipot-crowded shelves,
and some blue and white pictures of the tea-tray
and willow pattern. As we glanced round, the
interrogation re-commenced. “We were ill ? ’
“Yes, likewise sick. Couldn’t sleep for want of
breath at night, couldn’t eat for want of appetite
in the morning. Had a pain here (indicating the
diaphragm), and couldn t afford the time necessary
for decorous dying purposes.” Here the Mongol
medicine-man inter jected—•“ What do Sy’ney
doctors say ? ” “ They tell us that our liver is
queer,” returned we. Here a gesture indicated the
contempt of my medical adviser for his European
rivals, and then we determined to tickle him in a
soft place. So we told him that it was noised
abroad among the nations that he had a mysterious
instrument by which he was enabled to examine
the viscera of his patients through the pores of
their skin, and that we felt sure if he didn’t
thoroughly investigate our interior by its aid that
we were no better than a dead man. Murmuiiog
gently to himself : “My medisin weby dear,” and
telling us to partially disrobe, the quaint, slip-
shod, shirt-sleeved, pigtailed, diamond-pinned,
brown man pulled out a drawer, and took from it
a large money-bag from which he extracted a
package containing two magnifying-glasses.
The larger one (owo inches in diameter) he
held against our skin between the third and
fourth shirt-buttons, with the left band, and
then standing as far cff as was possible, in a
struek-by-lightning attitude, he glared fcr fully a
minute at the large magnifier through the double-
glasses of the smaller cne held in the right hand.
Locking at him anxiously we requested him in
plaintive tones to let us know the worst. Where-
upon he told us that it was not the liver at all,
that the liver was “here,” placing a lean,
yellow, shrivelled firger on his right side’
just where his suspenders embraced bis pants,
aad drawing it rapiily round towards his back ;
that our lung was very bad, tapping us on the left
side of our collar-bone, and that the pipes were
swollen and “choked this way,” crossing hii two
forefingers. Then he went on to say that the
other lung would soon be infected also, and that
the percolations from the sick lung put our stomach
out of order. Then we besought him to cure us
“My medisin welly dear,” he bleated. “How
much, doc.we gasped. “ Bottle las’ you fortnit,
two pong ten ; plaster for yo chest, ten sillin ;
pill, siokpen each.” “ Very good medicine, doc. ?’*
said we interrogatively. “Best in Sy’ney,” said
he. “Medesin there,” pointing to the shelves,
“ ten pong one small bottle, twenty pong two
bottle.” Then we told him that we had not been
to the bank yet, but would call on the morrow
with the shekels and cart away our three pounds’
worth of abominations. We then implored him
to say how it was that he discovered so quickly
that which was hidden from the combined medical
talent of Wagga Wagga and Sydney. Then he
opened his mouth and, telling us that he was the
“ on lee doctor in Sy’nfy,” expounded a parable
to the effect that the Australian doctors were
frauds, who knew nothing. When a patient came
along they simply tried him with every drug in
the pharmacopu-ia, and as they hadn’t many
drugs the patient, as a rule, wasn’t cured. This,
he said, was impossible in his establishment,
because he had one thousand six hundred and
eighty-four kinds of medicine, ninety-two varieties
of pills, and forty-five sorts of plasters. Conse-
quently, no man could conscientiously sample his
drug store andliveuncured, for he was bound sooner
or later to bump up against a bottle that con-
tained the antidote to his particular poison. Then
he gave us to understand that “ Sy’ney ” doctors
were fairly dying to buy his physic and his
divining apparatus, but that he remained obdu-
rate and refused to supply them.
* * •
While the old gentleman babbled thus
he was mixing a couple of powders (apparently
magnesia and rhubarb) to be slid on to the tongue
dry and washed down with a stiff glass of braudy
and water before dinner and bed time, as advance
agents to the more expensive charge he expected to
pour into us on the morrow. The powders being
wrapped up, we inquired his fee, and, handing
him half a guinea, were apologetically informed
that he was “very busy wish country orders.”
Having thus received our congi, we salaamed
vigorously, and as he stood on the landing ringing
a small hand bell, forgetting our part we ran
downstairs so gaily that the big, brown, bird like
eyes opened widely, and he suddenly broke off in
the midst of his farewell utterance—“ Call to-
morrow at sis o'clock ; bring three pong; my
medisin ——Moderating our pace at the stair
foot, our dear little j anitress tripped out demurely
from the playroom where her shapely brother and
sisters were gambolling, and smiling sweetly,
bowed us out into the sunshine, while
we wished her a grave “goodbye,” Then
we Sauntered slowly over to Pfahleit’s, wish-
ing that we owned a big, stone house in the
Square, wishing that we had been educated at a
Chinese University and were owners of large
gardens at North Shore and Kogarab, cultivated
for a mere song by our childlike compatriots
whom we imported from Canton on a three years’
agreement. Tima ruminating, we helped ourselves
largely to whisky, and as the Hebe who smiled on
and served us handed over cur change, we mur-
mured sefoly co ourselves, “My mecesih welly
dear.”
• * •
A» wo had drank whisky-and-water at
Piahlerb’s we didn’t care about drinking “blandy”
and water, too soon afterwards, so we washed
down On Lee’s powder with plain water. As,
under the circumstances, the mixture tasted like
milk, we concluded that the Chinese doctor’s
powder was chiefly chalk.


For Dyspepsia
USE lIORSFORDS ACID PHOSPHATE.
Dr T. G. Vawdrby, M.RO.S , and L R C.P., Hands-
woith, near Birminiihatn, Kag , says: “ li cases of atooio
dyspepsia I consider it superior to any of the dilute
mineral acids of the Pharmacopoeia.”
•IffT 16* Klnr«ti»s*», N»wtow«. Don’t fO»r*i
tolar. ».n’6- ka aOURII for 01 D,
Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite obhtom houss).
Directors i
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Ohaibman.
B. 0. V. BROUGHTON, Esq. j T. JONES, Esq,
This Bank undertakes the exchange of monef
of all nations In addition to all nsnal banking
business.
1. 6). kl«hrliis - m Mmclni
INTBBB3T ON DEPOSITS!
7 per tent.
». ® H it
m ti II
Sundry Shows.
Theatbb Royal.—" Dora ” and “ The Bar-
rister” P- Pb
Heb Majesty’s.— “ Youth"
Criterion.— “ The Magistrate ” >,
Galktt Theatre,—Gay lord-Silbon Troupe... „
Nfew Opera House.—“ Carmen ” and “II
Trovatore ” ■>
At Sydney Royal the present week will ba
mostly filled by “ London Assurance,” the famous
comedy which was written by so many different
men in so many different places under such a great
variety of circumstances, and which has caused so
much hair-tearing among the exceed rival authors,
until at last the old controversy has dropped down
dead from sheer weariness. On Friday Miss
Isabel Morris will collect a benefit and depart for
some other sphere of usefulness and ornamenta-
tion ; and Saturday night will commence a new
boom in the shape of Haddon Chambers’
famous Australian drama, “ Captain Swift.” The
Gaylord and Silbon cohort finish up at the Gaiety
on the same night. “Youth” runs as before,
but the freshness of the first rush is over; and it
becomes & matter of doubt whether the public will
appreciate having the old sensation shoved in front
of them much lorg-r. The only other change at
present looming is at the Criterion, where a double
bill, comprising “In Honour Bob ad” and “For-
bidden Fruit’’—the latter probably relating, in a
distant sort cl way, to the untoward incident in
the apple-trade, which shock up the earth a few
thousand years ago—will succeed the glorious
hilarity of the “Magistrate,” that bruised and
damaged beak retiring while still in the zenith of
his prosperity.
#♦ * *
The abandoned Italian Opera Company,
whose manager recently slouched over the horizon
leading consternation and emptiness behind him,
has this week been resurrected on the common-
wealth principle, and is running what ought to be
a prosperous season at Sydney Opera House. The
members of the new venture, in a brief address
to the public, acknowledge frankly that they have
nut up their last cent in order to start Mr.
Simonsen’s foundered enterprise afresh, and if
success dees not attend their efforts they will have
to reach home on foot via India, Afghanistan,
Persia, Bagdad, and other places they have no
desire to see at present In the hope of
averting this violent psdestrian exercise in
heathen lands “ Carmen ” has been put
upon the boards and is being well patron-
ised—though scarcely eo well as it deserves.
The most striking feature of the show is that the
Italian Opera Company plays, on a rough esti-
mate, three times as well without Mr. Simorsen
as it did with him, and an idea gradually presents
itself that if the eminent imptessario had filed bis
schedule earlier a lot of past friction might have
been avoided. The fact that he has been removed,
so to speak, before his personality had time to
soak into the audience, has evidently had a goed
effect, and should convey a valuable hint to other
men who are waiting to be fetched away by Pro-
vidence. “Carmen,” on her present basis, looks
better than she ever did in Sydney before. The
charming Louise Lablache, who appeared to
have struck her top cots of artistic fire on
that eventful night when the furniture was
shrieking through the air at the Opera House,
rises to a still greater elevation as the gipsy hurri-
cane of Bizet’s opera, and plays magnificently
from first to last. Her voice is in splendid con-
dition and her acting is within two feet of ejec-
tion, and, in a comprehensive sort of way, she is
doing all she knows to retain her ped ion as cne
of the finest artistes who ever trod upon the rags
of human passion on the Australian stage.
Madame Labkches Carmen w;uld bring u spire.-
tion even to a colonial politician who wrote
poetry, and after an evening spent under the in-
fluence of her magic spell Pai kes might compound
a new “ Stella,” and plant her twenty thousand
feet above the sea, instead often, which was the
elevation reached hy the last ope. The melodious
Pimazzoni, the E Camilla of the opera, is
a large heap better than he has ever yet
been, and rec-ives more encores than he knows
what to do with; and Dimitresco and Mancini
have both attained a new pinnacle of glory, and
sing with a lightsome air which suggests that an
incubus has been removed off their chests. Mias
Elsa Sherwin fills the bill where the name of Flora
Graupner used to shine, »nd consequently the last-
named lady creates less of an aching, hollow void
than she would otherwise do; and M. Leon Caron
has taken the orchestral throne, formerly held by
that airy nun of song, Signor Lombardi—the
change, in this case, being very decidedly for the
fetter. Altogether, the Italian Opera Company
is not hung with crape on account of the loss of
the recent Simonsen so much as might have been
expected, and in its own artless, foreign way, it
deserves to accumulate a pile to take back with ib
to its native land, where the lazzerone reclines
with his unshod feet in the shining waters of many
an historic strand.
## * *
Mr, J. Ross Browne, another neck break-
ing specialist and flying artist in broken bones,
undertook the hazardous rush on skates down the
Cogee toboggan slide last Saturday, and nob con-
sent with hxs first attempt he came down a second
time. On both occasions he reached the bottom
alive, though the velocity of his descent raised a
momentary fear that he might fly off the surface
df the earth altogether and be thrown out into
space, there to revolve in an orbit of his own with
his hat jammed tightly down on his head, until
the next great convulsion among the spheres should
shake his remains away to the distant stars. This
catastrophe was happily averted, and Mr. Browne
still walks this earth ; but if he insists on ricking
over precipices and brick walls and waterfalls and
other slippery things with a downward tendency,
he will assuredly come to grief sooner or later,
and then an unexpected vacancy will take place
among the works of Providence.
'** * *
Professor Baldwin has arrived in Sydney.
In these days when every other man is a professor
and the intermediate gentleman is thinking of
being one ib is refreshing to drop across a professor
Who isn’t a hair-cutter, and therefore we hasten to
record that Baldwin is the Original royal para-
chutist and dropper out of hallooes, and that his
mission in Sydney is to decline and fall from the
clouds and reach the earth uninjured. Baldwin
has fallen in this way in the presence of, but not
on top of, the Prince of Wales, and hia Royal
Highness was graciously pleated to remark that it
was awf’ly interesting—“so sudden, dontcherknow,
and—ar—er—such a striking example of the—er—
principle which was discovered by a perfectly
respectable person of the lower orders named
Newton when he swallowed the apple—er—in a
manner of speaking.” Baldwin intends making
hia first ascent next Saturday, ab 5 p.m., from the
Carrington Grounds, and he will return to the
same place with a short, sharp rush through the
atmosphere a few minutes later. On reaching the
ground he will deliver a short lecture on the scien-
tific aspect of the principle by which a man falls
half-a-mile without breaking all his bones, but the
crowd doesn’t care tmloh for lectures—-ib only
wants to £63 Baldwin drop.
#* * #
Mlsa Rohel Grey’s Comedy Company, ab
latest advices, was doing a large and profitable
business in the remote regions of Bourke, Coo-
namb’e, and other gritty districts where the du-t
is flying incessantly, and where the huge, bloated
spider stands on the earth and puts his head in ab
your bedroom window to see if yctl are at home,
and if you are nob he sofdy crosses the floor and
disappears down the stairs with your boobs. A
very successful season has been negotiated in these
unhealthy wilds, and in the intervals of dodging
insects the c r nipany has produced “ Pink
Dominoes,” “Hia Natural Life.” and various
other pieces, Miss Grey and Mr. Fred. Reynolds
taking most of the honours.
** * *
The Indefatigable and uicrushable George
Darrell lately concluded one of the best seasons
ever played at Wellington (N Z ). winding up
with the time-worn, tragic rags of “East Lynne,”
with Christine Darrell as Lady Isabel The man
who pubs up “ East Lynne ” in these days must
have a soul of boi'er-plate and a brain of mail
with an iron tail, but George actually did it, and
made money by ib, too,
*# # *
“ Pepita,” a comic opera of French extrac-
tion, ficklied o’er with the pale cerulean cast of
Parisian thought; appeared at Melbourne Princess’
last Saturday night, the internal parts of that
edifice being gorged with humanity. “Pepiba”
bears a strong family resemblance to other alleged
comic operas at the beginning and end of each acb,
when the full strength of the company comes for-
ward in different dresses to what they wore the
time before, and make desperate attempts to
drown the strains of an excited orchestra. But in
its calmer periods “Pepita” is troubled with a
long, intricate narrative of a political nature. In-
terest centres in the discovery of a rightful sove-
reign for the Canary Islands, and the Lord’s
Anointed ultimately turns up in one of two little
“ tarts,” who assist their husbands to run a bush
pub. (all French operas commencing at a pub )
once a fortnight, and then steal silently away on
THE SILBON TROUPE.
two live donkeys in order to plot against an attenu-
ated usurper. The direct descent of the real Queen is
established at a time when her deserted husband
has taken to selling cooling drinks from a can;
but he proves his nobility of character by killing
a stuffed black bull in the arena, and his joint
elevation to the Canary Islands throne is received
with rapture by all jibe inhabitants, many thou-
sands of whom are painted on a back scene and
are less tangible facts than the stuffed bull First
impressions of the “Pepiba ” music arouse a sus-
picion that the aforementioned bull died of it in a
cruel, lingering manner, and wasn’t killed by the
other fellow at all. Miss Nellie Stewart, as a
matter of fact, seemed rather indisposed during
the evening, and her sweat voice was never heard
to less advantage. But the indomitable pluck of
this goddess—who looks neither to the right, nor
to the left, when work lies before her —supported
her through several trying changes of character,
and won the admiration of those who were
saddest when she sang. That is true elo-
quence. Miss Fanny Liddiard also performed
intelligently in a variety of costumes, and
did her best to strike a tune, but the only
lively piece of melody was Mr Elton’s half of a
duet, into which he put a subtle something that
landed him at the top of the poll as usual Messrs.
Woodfield and Howard Vernon were light and
airy satellites to the newly imported planet, Mr.
Walter Marnock. who played a serious part with
due solemnity. Regarded as a magnificent spec-
tacle, Mr, Marnock only falls short of Yerdi in
the region beneath the bottom buttons of the
waistcoat, although he probably can’t dance with
the agility of that obese Adonis- or warble within
twenty one pounds of him, Bui on the latter
point “Pepiba” throws little light. It is not a
tuneful show, bub it cost a lot and will probably
be a success for one season.
♦* * ♦
Ocher Melbourne theatres are having an
exceptionally high time. The delicate aroma of
“ Sweet Lavender ” is snuffed from afar off, and
the Bijou fills like the near fore-leg of a racehorse
that has just won its trial. A gleam of sunshine,
however, vanished from this pretty play last
week, owing to circumstances connected with Miss
Lilian Gill more s tonsils terminating in a medical
conspiracy to cut her fair young throat. Mr.
Frank Thornton has now cut all connection with
the Rev. Spalding, and clutches his new character
at both ends with a great grip, but the young lady
who assumes to be Sweet Lavender is slowly and
stealthily falling in public estimation. She means
well, but her best endeavours are frustrated by an
unsympathetic white frock, which sticks out in
acute angles at the wrong parts, and requires to
be let down in the waist with some more “ tucks ”
and other feminine contrivances. It is the sorb of
frock that looks most becoming when it is in the
mangle, and should at once be relegated to an
evtrlasung wash.
#* * *
Hicks' Coloured Minstrels have also caught
on to fickle Fortune at the Opera House, a result
attributable to our black brudder who sings basso
profundc, and bo the unconventional fooling of
another brudder to whom Satan-man made over-
tures, which were repudiated with pious scorn.
Bub the extreme blackness of the performer last
mentioned provokes doubt as to whether his
African descent couldn’t be washed off with Pears’
soap. “Marvellous Melbourne” is surpassing all
understanding at the Alexandra, and the Royal
pantomime continues bo add fabulous gums to the
bloated exchequer of Messrs. Williamson, Garner,
and Musgrove, who will one day be called upon
to eater the Kingdom through the eye of a needle,
unless they give all their goods to the poor. It is
reported that the Triumvirate are negotiating
with Governor Loch for a grand farewell com-
mand night before he goes “ home,” but that the
two great powers can’t come to terms. Bub this
is a treasonable rumour which Tits Bulletin has
not been authorised to contradict. God save the
Queen !
x X JL
“TV *7v* ‘Tv* Iv
Horace Bent, a nigger humourist of long
standing, takes a benefit at Melbourne Opera
House next Saturday afternoon. Horace has met
with an accident, or something, anyhow he is a
deserving cause, and all who take tickets will get
a miscellaneous programme of prodigious strength.
** * #
From Maryborough (Vie.) comes tidings
of a ghastly but happily abortive attempt to
wound Wirbh’s Circus in its tenderest feelings,
lb seems that “ one of the management was dis-
posing of tickets from a waggon beside the arena,
and while the ticket-seller was busily engaged a
hand was thrust (a human hand ! Ye gods!)
through at the side and the parcel of 45.-tickets
was snapped up It was the work of an instant ”
(Melbourne ’Brald). But observe ho w themiserable
marauder was circumvented by the resourcsful
Wirbh in the waggon. He didn’t sib wringing his
hands while the front reserved seats were being
rapidly filled up on the “ never.” No—he stopped
further admissions by 4s. tickets. The mean thief
found himself in the position of one who picks
Dead Sea fruit and can’t enjoy the ashes. He
probably wandered around the tent until he went
mad, and was very likely seen flinging 4s. tickets
to the beasts of the fields, and advising those
dumb creatures to sit as far from the drum as
possible.
*« # #
To night, Thursday, February IRh, a con-
cert will bfl given in Melbourne Town Hall in aid
of the local charities. Mr. Co wen and his or-
chestra appear in conjunction for the last time,
and celebrate the occasion by taking positively
nothing at all for their seryices.
** * *
It is a lasting stigma upon holy Adelaide
that the gallery boys of that city do not lavish
their young loy.a upon Nellie Stewart. They have
a nasty wav of saying, “Now then, N e hi®> ri °t 80
much of it !.” which is generally regarded as an in-
sinuation that the sweetest of c mic opera visions
is putting on jam. Sydney and Melbourne find
nobbing to complain about in this respect. Most
girls pub on jam in some style or other, and
Nellie’s mod 3 of procedure is picturesque at all
points.
#* * #
Sir Henry Parkea only mustered sufficient
courage to poo the question after a course of Mar-
shall’d Tonic Nervine.
** # *
Mr. Marlin Simonson has been reduced to
filing his shovel by circumstances over which he
had no control—said circumstances being set
down before the Court as a certain turbulent
band of foreigners much addicted to cussing one
another in choice Italian at Sydney Opera House.
Mr. Simonsen’s liabilities to creditors, other than
his wife, are under £lOOO, an amount which seems
fairly merciful as such things go. More than that
had been “done in” by his lantern-jawed com-
pany of Spanish Students ere the unhappy itn-
pressario put Italian opera before “the music-
loving people of Melbourne,” and found their
affection to be fugitive and hollow. It was his
misfortune to have to organise an orchestra at a
time when the best local fiddlers were scraping
out long largo and allegro movements at the in-
stigation of the Exhibition Commissioners. But it
was Mr. Simonsen’s fault that he brought over
artists who had no sentiment in common except a
desire for the conductor’s sudden dissolutions and
he further inflamed those fiery particles by assccl-
ciating with them some of the sadde sb amateurs
that ever made inhuman noise s in the wrong hey.
Thirdly, lastly, and in conclusion, Mr. Bimonsen
worked out his destiny by not caring a capital D
for the Press, and electing to stand or fall by the
merits of his show. He accordingly fell with a
very sickening tliud, despite the languid assistance
of critics, who had nearly exhausted their adjectives
over the glorified Cowen. It would be necessary,
however, to quote a Melbourne notice of a certain
performance, in order that the ghastly significance
of these last remarks might be understood.
** * *
When Jimmy Allison paid Cowen hia
£5OO for conducting 12 concerts in Sydney,
Jimmy remarked,Don’t you think there’s room
for a drink about this lot ?” Cowen cordially as-
sented, and they sauntered up to the bar, where
the great musician said ho considered that
lemonade-and-claret would be just the thing. This
was a paralyser for Allis an, who had had fizz in
his mind’s eye, but he philosophically put up with
the Vinegar and syrup, which Cowen gulped
down hastily, and, immediately pump-handling
James with great energy, took his departure “as
he bad a lot of things to do ” Then James found
that Cowen in his hurry had omitted to pay for
the drinks, which thus fell to his lot. In the
evening the pair met again. “By the way, Mr,
Cowen,” says James, producing sundry sixpence?,
“you forgot to take up your change when you
paid for those drinks this afternoon.” “Ah,
thanks,” says Cowen pocketing the church-money.
#* * #
Juab as Oowen’s contingent finished play-
ing the lively “Aus aller Herren Hinder,” the
other evening, fully a third of the big audience
arose and bolted for train and tram. Frederic
C., baton in hand, surveyed them with disgust;
at every lull he turned towards his tuneful choir,
and as he did so another fifty or so, whom hia
baleful glare had hitherto kept seated, turned to
flee. It was “So Sydney, you know,” and so he
had to wait till the last straggler got outside.
So great is the
success of the Silbon
Troupe that Hiscocka
and MacMahon have
found the Sydney Gaiety
not nearly large enough
to accommodate the
o owds that nigh'ly flock
bo witness these really
marvellous performers, so
with characteristic enter-
prise this management
has taken the Exhibition
Building for four special
extra performances, com-
mencing cn Saturday
next. The illustration
here printed represents
the four principal mem-
bers of the Silbon Family,
who enj-y a world-wide
fame. In every amuse-
ment centre of America
and on the Conti-
nent of Europe they
have long been reigning
stars. They received a
Royal compliment in
being specially engaged
for thegreat Hippodrome
during the Parrs Exhibi-
tion, at the special in-
stigation rf Tummy,
Prince if Wale*, who
had teen them in Russia.
At the coronation of
Affonso, King of Spain
a special feature of the
festivities was the en-
gagement of the Silbcna
by the Spanish Go verm
ment. After the Exhi-
bition performances, the
company proceed to Mel-
bourne Opera House.
Forty-two pounds is the sum an exhibitor
in the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition has to
pay as duty on liquor, which he modestly avers he
drank himself within the building.
The Williamatown (Yic.) Town Clerk ad-
vertised recently for a Chinaman to make himself
generally useful at seven shillings a day. We are
anxiously waiting fmr the people of Williamstown
to advertise for a Mongolian as Town Clerk at the
same wages.
That ra,bid anti-Home Ruler, “ Pen-
dragon,” having been honest enough to admit that
Printing House Square was neither getting the
best of the Ti,M,K3-Earnell battle, nor fighting in a
way which would command the sympathies of
the disinterested, has been bitterly assailed by
several newspapers and has received shoals of
letters accusing him of conversion to Fenianism.
As he sagely observes, “the best way to get ac-
cused of dishonesty is to ba as impartial as you
possibly can.”
For civility, comfort, and all the luxuries
of a really first-class establishment, the Grand
Hotel, Wynyard square, canrot be surpassed. It
is supplied with splendid billiard-rooms, elegant
suites of apartments, and unrivalled liquors, and
is fitted up with every appliance invented by
modern civilisation to make life pleasant. The
cuisine is second to none in Sydney, and no effort
ip spared to make the patrons of the Grand Hotel
thoroughly comfortable.


“ There are more cures made with Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters than all other medicines.”
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-whitb Patent
Roller Floor, and your bread will be as white as snow.
B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFICE
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W, H. HACIABM,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Account Book Manufacturer, &c., &o,
Maclardy’t £B Box of Stationery a specialty. Send for
List o) Content».
Note Address— ——
819 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Card*
and Famy Goods. Inspection invited.
Burke and Slavin’s Fight.
(As witnessed by “Trente,” of THE BULLETIIN.)
I was Informed that If I wanted to see the
Burke and Slavin battle in a peaceable way, with-
out having to remove the ear of the man in front
of me to make a libble lane of vision to the stage,
or have my own removed by the man behind me,
for the same purpose, I would have bo be on the
spot as soon as the doors were opened. As I did
want to see it, and in as inoffensive a way as pos-
sible 1 was there not more than an hour after the
time’ mentioned. I found I had been deceived, or
Mr. Michael Nathan, who grave me the informa-
tion, had been deceived The hall was merely
sprinkled with spectators, who glared stonily at
the stage in the centre, as though ib was all they
had come to see, and they were gloomily satisfied.
The seats on the real stage, one of which I in-
tended bo occupy, were empty, save for the pre-
sence of a gentleman in a tall hat and with a sallow
face, tutted with wisps of hay-coloured hair.
“Who is he?” I enquired of the attendant.
“Comes from the Age,” was the whispered
“This then,” I thought, “is the person who
writes about these matters in their moral aspects,
and heads his articles, “ Disgraceful Exhibition
of Brutality.”
The real reporter, who revels in the fierce joy of
battle, and goes to sleep with the “Annals of the
P.R ” his pillow, sat at a table down below
and close to the ring—which, being in the Hiber-
nian Hall, was naturally a square, or rather paral-
lelogram—as I discovered afterwards. Au astute
method, this, of catering for the tastes of two
classes of readers. It struck me, by the way, as
grimly appropriate that the Hibernian Hall
should be chosen as the scene of a fight.
• « *
The audience began to thicken very slowly,
and as each person took his seat his eyes became
fixed on the stage with the same strong glare I
had noticed in the previous arrivals. It might
have been a meeting of corpses assembled bo try
one of their number who had presumed to re-
surrect himself before hia due time, such was the
ghastly solemnity that brooded over all. I began
to wish I hadn’o come, but I had never seen a
fight of this kind before, and I was conscious of a
certain ferocious cariosity which I have been
ashamed of ever since.
The hours passed slowly by, and beyond an
occasional stroll out—after leaving a hymn-book
on the chair to show that ib was occupied—to
smoke a c’garetbe and curse, in a disguised under-
tone, everything connected with pugilism from
the days of the Roman Boxer d ownwards, there
was no way of killing the time. At last I settled
stolidly down and glared at the stage like the rest.
I was not so lost in the contemplation of ib, how-
ever, that I didn’t notice a few faces in the
audience that seemed familiar to me, though I
seemed to have seen them before with far different
surroundings. There was an evident attempt at
disguise in each case. The slouch hats were worn
awkwardly, and pulled darkly down over the fore-
head in the manner of poker-players, but not with
the poker player’s careless grace. “ Parsons for a
pound,” I murmured, as it flashed across my mind
where I had last seen them. Like my sallow-
faced friend behind me, they had, no doubt, come
there to “improve the occasion,” and warn their
congregations in burning words never to go to
such exhibitions if they valued their souls’ salva-
tion. I had seen the same reverend gentlemen
on the Lawn on Cup Day, with the same godly
purpose in their heart 3 , I am sure. After this I
went to sleep, and missed, I believe, a smart little
set-to between a black boy, whom some malignant
humourist had named “ Pluto,” and a white young
man called King. I was told that, as might be
expected, Pluto gave Mr. King Hades.
* * *
I may have slept for a couple of hours or
a week, as far as I know, when I was awaken?d by
the sound of tremendous cheering Burke and
Slavin had appeared at last. The first person in
the audiecca my glance lit on was one of the dis-
guised parsons. He was clapping his hands in a
faint and furtive way. He caught my eye and
cowered.
Burke came in first, with his trainer, Mr.
Michael Nathan, whom I have previously alluded
to as a Deceiver. Burke looked like a young
gladiator fresh from the baths—ruddy and springy
and prancing with life. He has a pleasant faco—
at least, he had then—not at all like what you
would expect to find on the shoulders of a pugilist
—and stepped into the ring with a bright smile.
I oonldn’t help thinking at the lime —“ That is
neither the form nor the face to stand much
punishment.”
Then Slavin came on with a slouch of the
shoulders that reminded me of the “ Bhoys ” in
the long coats with tails yon are invited to
“thread on if you dar,” and the triangular walk
iabended to take up as much of the pathway as
possible, whom I remember having seen at Pairs
in Ireland, and who were generally, and respect-
fully, alluded to as “ Tarrers ” (meaning Terrors,
of course),
It seemed as if there would be no end to the
applause. Mournful, isn’t it, to think that after
Doing intoxicated with frenzied adulation of this
kmd for a few years these mighty champions of
the ring disappear and are found burrowing in
obscure little pubs, where they maunder over their
pist glories and live by intoxicating their former
admirers, in their turn, with cheap rum and brain-
softening beer ? There are, of course, some ex-
c3ptions, among whom is my friend who deceived
me, the aforesaid Mr Michael Nathan, who is by
no means obscure either in his hotel or himself,
both of which he conducts in a discreetly glitter-
ing way beautiful to behold.
* • *
Slavin walked to the middle of the ring
held up the gloves, informing the audience
that they were Boz. gloves and he had agreed to
ka °ij , r h o out with 6oz. gloves; also, that he
wouldn’t try to knock any man out with Boz
gloves. I thought, as he said that, I wouldn’t like
*!? B lve him the chance, unleos I were riveted to
th 9 floor and living in a boiler at the time.
Ihen Nathan, Burke’s trainer, said that Inspec-
tor Bewbress refused to allow any but 8 -z gloves
bo ba used.
Then Peter Newton, Slavin’s trainer, said that
olayin wouldn't underbake to carry on tha match
with any such gloves.
, Then—pandemonium! I thought that respec-
table-looking audience who had kept, so depres-
smgly qffieb during the early part of the evening
would have howled their heads off and then thrown
aem at both champions and their backers. And
eading the hooting was my friend the parson. In
an interval of exhaustion a voice from the gallery
suggested that they should “fight with pillers,”
remark which was received with ironical ap-
P-ause. Fired with the success of this piece of
humour some other wag hinted in a howl, regard-
ing Slavin, “ Give ’m some bloomin’ whisky and
let him fight with his bloomin’ feet,” which was
also received with yells of delight. At last it
seemed as though some arrangements had been
made.
e * *
Slaviatook his seatat one corner of thering,
Burke at the other, with three muscular persons
fanning each of them, Oae of these pugilists’
maids —or, suppose I call them pugmaids for
short —stood in front of his principal, swinging a
towel up and down, as though they were each
offering incense to an idol. All of these proceed-
ings did the audience regard with much com-
placency. I asked a gentleman in a moustache,
who sat beside me, if he knew who a certain dis-
tinguished-looking person in tha gallery was, in-
dicating whom I meant by a nod.
“ That’s a pug,” was the curb reply.
And I made sure he was a poet! There was,
however, one unmistakable poet, with high brow
and dreamy eyes, among the audience. I have
the honour of knowing him, and up till that moment
I would not have believed —though the statement
was sworn to on a Babel of Bibles—that he could
look at a sparrow-fight unmoved. During this
time the fanning went on, and the champions
glowered at each other from their separate corners.
Burke, as I said before, has a somewhat pleasant
face—a face which was never meant to be made
a batter-pudding of in a prize-ring. But
Slavin—Slavin has a face that fears no foe.
Punishment can do nothing beyond im-
prove it. A flinty face, such as you would
in all likelihood break your knuckles on if you
struck it. The eyes are well guarded by the brows
and the cheek-bones. The cheek-bones and the
nose, in fact, are the only features open to blows,
and you might as well hit an iron spike as hit that
nose. Such a face I can imaeine on the end of a
battering-ram in the old Roman days. The
shoulders are made to match —square and some-
what gaunt-looking, bub giving you the idea of
having been expressly constructed to propel a pair
of fists to smash things and do nothing else—tha
true shouldeis of the old warriors who lived by
their swords and died by somebody else’s. The
whole upper portion of Slavin’s bedy gave me an
impression of what I might call grisly strength.
I have never known a cheese that affected me in
the same way, and I have met with some pietty
strong ones.
* 6 *
Tile fanning and the Incensing movement
with wet towels went on for about a quarter of an
hour, during which time the combatants 1 joked
unutterable death at each other. This was what
1 had come to see. But evidently the rest of the
audience hadn’t, for they rose up with one pro-
longed howl and demanded that the fight should
go on. Burke then came forward and proposed
that as Slavin wouldn't agree to fight under the
conditions the money paid for admission should te
returned. Furious applause from the audience.
And dead drop jawedeess, if I may so term it, in
the ring. At last Slavin gave a slow and seem-
ingly bitter consent to the proposition. Then,
fortunately for the ring, somebody called out,
“ What about the bats ? ” Ah —That was another
matter. There was a cry as of many wild asses in
the wilderness for Jos Thompson. Mr. Joseph
Thompson stepped upon the stage, wearing his
hair cut bald in his well-known eccentric way. He
took up the gloves and balanced them in his hand
with the air of one who had on chance occasions
seen|euch things before The audience appreciated
this pjntomims and chuckhd. It is, by the way,
one of the most er j oyable things on earth to hear
several hundreds of people chuckle as one —a
thousand chuckling as one. Here is an apoph-
thegm on the spur of the moment—l hul rather
make an audience (or a nation) chuckle than cheer.
Let anybody write their ballads—let me write
their burlesques.
(To the Editor of The Bulletin. Anybody in-
fringing upon or copying the above will be
prcsocuted to the utmost outrigger of the law).
* * *
There had evidently baen a great deal of
confidence placed in Mr. Thompson when he want
inside the ropes. He rose to the occasion, and
fired the gloves bo various ends of the hall for con-
noisseurs to heft them, as the Americans say. It
was amusing beyond measure bo watch each man
who wasforbunateenough togebholdof a glovepoise
ib knowingly, look abib with one eye shut, and then
look at ib with the other shut, and make a lunge
at an imaginary opponent, and pass it on with a
wise, uncompromising cough. I saw my friend
the parson with one in his hands, and I regret to
say he looked at ib—fondled it!—with quite a pro-
fessional air. Oae was passed to me in time, and
I gazed at it, felt the texture of it, balanced it,
blinked at it with alternate eyes, and passed it on
with the same wise cough. One never knows how
much he knows bill he knows what other people
don’t know. (N.B, —Also patented.)
• • •*
The gloves were fltmg back upon the stage
again, and it began to be clear to the audience
that nothing was to be done. Then Young Aus-
tralia, and the fathers and the grandfathers of
Young Australia arose together and groaned. I
looked down and looked up and behind me and
before me to meet with nothing but husky chaos
and gnashing of teeth —some of them false, by the
way, as I was bold afterwards that a man who
had pub a lot of money on the match swallowed
his teeth (gold-plates and all) in sheer fury, and
has had to be fed on chewing-cud mixture ever
since. Daring this time phantoms of various
sorts and in various suits went gibbering in and
out and around the ring. Mr. Joseph Thompson
would come to Slavin and say what sounded to be
“whish —whish—hoo” and gesticulate with an
uoward motion of his arms and a downward in-
flection of hia legs. Then he would shimmer over
to Burke and say something like “hoo—whish —
whish ” and wave his legs upwards and his arms
the other way. I enjoyed ib immensely. I under-
stood that he was carrying challenges from one to
the other of dreadful defiance. “ Mister,” said I
to the man in the moustache sitting next to me,
“ isn’t ib splendid ? ” “Isn’t what splendid,” he
growled. “ Why, the fight,” I answered. “You
fool, this isn’t a fight,” he growled, “ nor
nob likely to be neither, s’elp me.” “ Ah ! ” I re-
marked meekly, “ I thought it was. I never was
at one of these fights before, and I thought this
might be the way they were carried on.”
“ Miller—Miller ! ’ There was a cry for Miller
all over the house. I know and esteem Professor
Miller well—he once knocked a foil oub of my
hand through a skylight, and I went about with a
green shade on my elbow for a fortnight after-
wards, bub that will nob prevent me from saying
that he rose like a weary earthquake and, after
carefully testing the strength of the planks, came
slowly thundering on the stage. He also whish-
wish-hooed and hoo-whish-whished at each corner,
but the champions were immovable. No sign of
life was brought from Slavin, even when ib was
hinted that he should go home and go to bed, or
he might catch cold and die, and cast a gloom
over the community. He simply sat there—stolid
—glowering—and fanned. For another half-hour
several gentlemen—including Mr. Hedley of the
Age, who came on and explained something
about the gloves, which was listened to with
enthusiastic silence —appeared and disappeared,
and menaced and shook warning, witch-like
hands, and came back again, and went again, and
1 had once in my childhood come across a
pleasant little Birthday Book called “ Hell opened
to Sinners,” and I never realised what it meant
till then.
• * •
All of a sudden a hand was waved from
the ring for silence. It was the bejewelled hand
of Mr. Joseph Thompson—may the beat four-
poster in heaven be his bed for that same ! He
informed the audience that the match as originally
arranged was off, that the bets were off, and that
the agreement was that the men should fight six
rounds, knock out or draw, the gate money to be
divided among them. No dissent was made, ex-
cept by a few unruly persons, who were promptly
stifled. Then the men stripped, took each a
draught of water (unhappy necessity of pugilism!),
walked into the centre of the ring, and shook
hand?.
« • •
As they stood in front of each other I
marked again what the sporting writers call the
*' pink of condition ” was, if taken literally, the
absolute fact with regard to Burke. He looked
as springy and as supple as a chamois.
As for Slavin, he was in what might be called
the grey-pink of condition. At times he looked
almost livid.
There was no dancing or minuettiog around,
Slavin stretched. Burke parried. Burke re-
minded. Slavin recollected. Then two or three
times Burke played havoc with his gloves upon
that flinty jaw. It seemed to me that he gave the
battle into Siavin’s hands by hitting him. 1!
Burke had adopted all the permitted tsctics of the
ring and allowed Siavia to tire himself cut, there
might have been a different end to the affair. But
it would have had to be fought out in a forty-acre
paddock. The fact of the matter is, the only way
for anyone I know—barring Peter Jackson —
to fight Slavin is to let him kill you at once
and then quietly borrow a hammer —a heavy one
—from a friend and hit him on the head when he
isn’t looking. End of round one —nothing to
either.
Burke came up like the Dancing Faun to the
second round. He had had rather the best of the
last one and paraded bravely before his two-and-a-
half stone heavier and four inches taller opponent.
I looked around the audience. There was not a
face in the crowd that was not more or less
fiendish —barring a few belonging to a few prize-
fighters. They were calm and professional. But
the rest of the audience was simply ferocious,
Then for the first time did I realise thoroughly
the fierce bloodthirsty joy of those who looked
down on the arena and turning up their thumbs
cried ‘ 1 Habet."
The face of the parson I had sineled out was
flashed and carnivorous-looking. “That man,”
I said to myself, “has been a cannibal at one
period and a beosb of p;ey before that.”
I could see him digging his nails into the palms
of his hands.
I found myself doing the same thing at the same
moment
The whole audience, in fact, had been suddenly
brutalised.
And yet they talk about settling matters of dis-
pute between nations by arbitration, while there
are such passions as these in the breasts of men !
Peace comes only when one or both parties are
tired—never till then—and only then till they can
gain breath to fight again.
Id seems to be a law of Nature.
Is there no place outside of Nature in which an
ordinary man, with quiet tastes and an inclination
for fishing and borrowing money in a strictly con-
fidential way, can live? If there is, I want to
know its address.
• •
The combat of the two looked like the
fight between a tiger and a panther. Slavin was
the t’ger —gaunt, powerful, merciless, Burke was
the panther—sleek, supple, spirited, but crushed
by weight.
Just like a tiger—a Bengal tiger—with the long
slink and the murderous eyes, was Slavin.
Like a panther—fleet, agile, graceful but weaker,
was Burke.
Id didn’t require a prophet to tell who would
come off best. And yet all my sympathies were
with the poor panther.
Ha made a gallant fight for it, always driven
outwards, always trying to get in, but his lighter
weight and softer flash and silkier sinews were
against him in the limited spaca allowed. If it
had been a Parthian battle he would (and I am
non sneering) have probably come off better.
End of second round. Panther down.
* * •
Third round The tiger is Infuriated, loses
his tiger temper, rushes at the panther. Ah 1
the poor panther tries to close, feints, dodges,
avoids, but with one great arm like the arm of a
steam-crane Slavin stretches at him and —fare you
well, Killeoy ! The poor panther is dead.
Not a bit of it).
Up once more —elastically, brightly, and the
panther is himself again.
There are deafening cheers for Burke.
Slavin looks desperately and dangerously
around.
The black blood is rising in him.
Burke comes sufferingly, but still smiling, for-
ward.
Cheers for Burke again.
There isn’t even the pretence of an overture.
Slavin has gone in to slay. I was nob mistaken
in his looks. He reminded me of what Blakely
Hall tells of Sullivan and Slade, the New Zea-
lander Sullivan simply glared Slade out of the
ring with bis murderous eye. But Burke was not
to be glared out in that way, or else Slavin hasn’t
the eye by the way, he is of Irish descent :
wouldn't he, when else has failed him, make a
good Bull's-^ ye ?
However, this is frivolous. In spite of his fiery
resistance, his feints and counter feints, it was no
use—Slavin had come in to kill And he played
the tiger to a vengeance. But it was the enraged
tiger this time. He sprung on the poor unhappy
panther who could only make a few feeble ruses
and —the stretch of that powerful paw and down
again.
All over. ■ T
The polic 3 came on the stage. Burke stagger-
ing up says he will fight again. Nonsense ! He
manages to get as far as the ropes and says he
will. My parson applauds. My parson has
evidently more than a Scriptural interest in
Burke. The devil !
There is no doubt in my mind but that Slavin
would have killed Burke for' money if the matter
had been arranged in a legitimate way.
Parkes says he means to live to 100, Cen-
tennial Parkes! When Sirenry celebrates his
centenary he will be the only Foreign-trader in
Australia.
The Bulletin’s “ History of Botany
Bay,” by Arthur Gayl l , profusely illustrated by
The Bulletin's artists, L Hopkins and Phil
May, is a book that everybody should read.
The following advertisement appears in
Tuesday’s Sydney E News :
■’VT'OUNG Married Ladies, and Ladies in difficulties,
should consult Mrs. .
Now, Mr. Bennett, what does this mean ?
With reference to the Samoan difficulty
Sir George Grey says that the balance of power
has shifted from England to America, and the
future of the Pacific Islands will depend on the
interest the States take in their welfare.
We have received a ccpy of “The London
Bridge Diary for 1889,” from the Australian agents,
Messrs. Leopold Barrett and Go , of 29 Jamieson-
street, Sydney. It is a complete diary for the
year, and contains a quantity of information
useful to architects, builders, and others interested
in the building trade, to whom the diary is issued
gratuitously for advertising purposes.
The friends of Bnrnsby Horns contend
that his election to Parliament by the con-
stituency which indirectly profited by his
alleged fiscal improprieties is a convincing
proof that there is nothing in the charges
against him. Pending further inquiries, we
are not disposed to judge ex-Treasurer Burns
with undue harshness, but yet are we tempted to
remark that the election argument amounts to
nothing : even the late Mr. Ned Kelly was
-popular in his own country.
As ouc readers are aware, The Bulletin
is desirous of commending to the public the Bene-
volent Consultations conducted on the lines laid
down in this paper by Mr. “Adam Bede,” the
square promoter of a square sporting enterprise.
From the consultations now open on the Austra-
lian Cup and Newmarket Handicap the Sydney
Hospital and other clarities will receive 3 per
cent, the promoter 7 per cent., and the investors
in the sweeps the usual amount of 90 per cent.
These consultations have already been a tentative
success, and we are enabled to state that before the
end of next month we will be in the position to
hand a substantial cheque to the Sydney Hospital
and something to the Distressed Jockeys’ Fuad.
As an evidence tha 1 ] there is plenty of
money available for investment in legitimate
mining enterprises—in ventures where the “first
robbers ” do not want an inordinate share of tta
spoil—we may mention that the Bona Fide G. M.
Co., of Tarcutta, N.S.W., prospectus of which
was advertised in The Bulletin, and in The Bul-
letin only, last week, has already been successfully
floated. The Bulletin commended several fea-
tures in the prospectus to mining investors, which
commendation, however, some thick-skulled
noodles connected with the company imagined
was intended as sarcasm, and asked us in sorrow
and auger (mixed) what we meant by “giving
them away.”
Mr. J. C. Bowden, for many years the
popular and genial host of the Old Club House
Hotel, Hunter and Castlereagh streets, wishes to
inform his patrons and friends that he has removed
to that commodious and central establishment
formerly v known as the Exeter Hotel, corner of
Elizabeth and Hunter streets, henceforth to be
known as Bowden’s Hotel. Mr. Bowden has
made extensive additions to the premises, in the
shape of a large, well-ventilated dining room, suites
of bedrooms, sitting rooms, lavatories, &c., to meet
the requirements of his large and increasing connec-
tion. The furniture throughout is of a solid and ele-
gant description, massive arm-chair?, couches, &c ,
being hung in profusion, rich carpetings, curtains,
and all the other appurtenances of a first-class
hotel. There is a general appearance of cleanli-
ness, neatness, and comfort about the entire es-
tablishment that must at once place it among the
leading houses of Sydney. Mrs. Bowden per-
sonally superintends the culinary and household
arrangements, which will be sufficient guarantee
that this department will be efficiently attended
to. Wines, spirits, and cigars of the best brands
alone are kept. The charges are extremely
m oderate.
Love's Old Dream.
Now lasses and lads of Australia,
Just answer the cynic’s remarks
That marriage is always a failure,
By murmuring : “ ’Enry Parkes ; ”
The subject of wedlock a bone is
Of bitter contention, it’s true —
But hey ! for the hairy Adonis
Who marries at seventy-two.
We blush for the foolish young feller
Who turns him from maidenhood coy—•
Our Parkes is a-kissing his Stella
With singular ardour and joy ; #
And this is a sweet admonition,
A sweet admonition to you
To copy the old politician
Who marries at seventy-two.
Love’s no respecter of ages,
As often the poets have sung,
And merciless Oupid, he wages
A war upon aged and young ;
You can’t fix a practical limit
To seasons wken lovers may coo,
For, when they are seized with the whim, it
Is pleasant at seventy-two.
If Parkes hadn’t tried it already
(And laid one or two on the shelf)
One might, with some reason, have said he
Was making a fool of himself ;
But, lasses and lads of Australia,
Observe how he wished to renew
The marriage which wasn’t a failure,
And did so—at seventy-two.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
la more WTiolesomt thM
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And la a
Pure Refreshing Beverage.
Be Careful roo oblal* Wow*’*.
High Art Photography,— For artistic posing
nnd effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OH A RLE MONT
& 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high.
Photographers to His Bxsellensy Lord Oarlogtos
" By Ippnistinrat."
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whits
Patknt Rollbb Floor. It Is the greatest suooess of the
age.
Exhibition Visitors ought to parry handkerchiefs because
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratia with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Prbfumrrt Co.'s
Stands In the Melbourne Exhibition. All Melbourne
le on this Scent.
Moet and Ghandon's Chanipaqnb - Messrs. Most and
Ghandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
champagne-producers In the world. Tneir “ Wry-
linurtlal” ISS4 vintage is the pure juice of selected
grapes from their own vineyards of ioOO acres in the
choicest districts of France. It can now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant in Australia. The Imperial
Crown Is in each corner of label, and lisbi branded on
oork and label.
Pepper And salt
A melancholy rumour Is afloat to the
that the Marquis of Lome will succeed Cart g
We lodge a protest herewith :
Inscrutable are the ways of Providence !
Two Sunday nighbs back, J. P. Peppercorn, a
mild and seductive little man of venerable aspect
and humble and contrite disposition, who for
years has lifoei up his voice in the cause of
• berewbb,” demonstrating the feasioility of
Balaam’s ass and the strictiy scientific principles
of Jonah and his whale, in and around Melbourne,
fell dead on the platform in the Victoria Hall,
after descanting on tbe prevailing tendency
towards unbelief in the serpent that was set up in
the wilderness, and the swine that ran tumul-
tuously over a steep place and pitched into
the sea, and the miracles of the prophets,
and lucidly arguing that this harrowing scepticism
must provoke the wrath of the Great High and
lead to a violent upheaval, the breaking-up of the
mighty deep, and the undoing of nations. At the
same time that arch-reviler of holy writ and
blasphemer - of stored things, Jos. Symes, was
excitedly pitching in a tent befo;e a large and
appreciative audience, and straining every nerve
to drag the faithful into contempt, and upset
Moses and David and other ancient personages
running from Genesis to Revelations, and he
was not stricken—nay, not even with an egg. He
finished his lecture and went home to concoct
more iniq uibous speeches, sound in limb and wind.
The faithful apostle alone was chastened, and the
righteous lift up their hands exclaiming ; “ V erily !
verily ! can such things be ?’’
We’ll ring a chime to mark the change
Since tho days of Ananias,
And an awful warning given to
The fulminating pi ou •,
And note a wonderful reverse
Of Providential b'as.
The man of wrath whose wicked words
Have spread abroad a sceptic taint,
And who to squad i of Holy Joes
Has been the source of sore complaint,
Is left to revel in his sin
Whilst Death steps ii and smites the saint.
You’ve often read in ancient writ
Of two-and-forty kids, and how
They jeered and cried, “ Go up, bald head 1”
And all were worried for their row ;
Maybe ’twaa thus it happened then —
The be ars would scuff the prophet now.
The thunder-bolt and lightning-flash
No longer awful scoffers “ bust ”
They mostly wreck the village church
And spread the stuffing of the just,
Or fall upon a meeting-house
And crack a holy elder’s crust.
All this to one conclusion points—
Upon that end at once we’ll lob —
Those men forever “ on the flute ”
And wrangling the derisive mob
Don’s seem to suit the cause they serve,
And are not wanted on the job.
• • *
The N.Z. Times (Wellington), better
known, for its sadness, as the “ Mourning
Jebval ” commenting on those who wantonly
start bush-fires, writes: “Persons of this class
are usually beyond the reach of argument or
appeal. They have the destructive instinct, and
whenever they can indulge it ” True, and this
same paper is eternally yowling for somebody’s
blood ; always yearning to hang, whip, or torture
someone, or shrieking adulation of British troops
who, armed with weapons of precision, shoot or
burn half starved Arabs, These badly-congested
Jingoes with enlarged spleens don’t seem able to
understand that the same brutal destructive in-
stinct which prompts their lust for the shooting
and burning of humans prompts the larrikin to
burn bush and destroy property. Both are
savages ; only the ink-sllnging savage is the worse
of the two.
• • •
Mr. “ Rath ” Cowen stood ap at the final
Exhibition luncheon to mention that he wou’d
draw Ir's little ch c qne(£sooo, for six months’ work)
without a murmur. Cowen gracefully mopped
the perspiration from his brow, and said : “ It has
been a season of very hard work. I have had a
great deal to do which, perhaps, many of you are
nob aware of; still, id has been a labour of love
with me, and I have never yrumb'ed ” What a
patient, long-suffering “Ruth” it is. Let us sing:
O ! Britain, spare this blow,
Respect our p 1 tiding tear,
You’ve played it rather low
On us for many a year ;
You sent ua Baron Bob,
Whom patiently we’ve borne,
But hear ua when we sob
“ O ! draw the line at Lome.
Have pity, if joa pleise 1
Be merciful and just,
And never send Lou se
To make a hupper crust:
la token of distress
Were tearing of our hair
The strain of a Prince is
Is more than we can hear.
Potatoes small are we
(A cimmon class of spud),
That wouldn’t quite agree
With ladies of the Blood ;
And Loo, we beg to state
(Which makes the matter wuss),
Although so good and great,
Would not agree with us.
Once Edinburgh came,
And ua our manhood trod,
We treated him the same
As if he’d bean a gol;
Out here the sons of Wales
Their tutor travelled with,
To hear the pretty tales
Of loyal Cupid Smith.
Bat noti ms change with times ;
Since then the Bullttkkn
Has published naughty rhymes
Abo at our Gracious Que en ;
And mea of every clas>,
Have chewed reflection’s cad,
Until it’s come to pass,
They scream for no one’s Blood.
So, Britain, spare this blow ;
The very thought of Lome,
Makes precious, d mtyerknow,
E’en Robert’s usei-up yawn ;
And now that Freedom’s plant
Is bursting into bud,
No watering ’owill want
With England’s Royal BIo:d.
Musician, meek and humble,
To the reason we can tumble,
Why you did not ever grumble
At the work bo do :
As the leader’s ebair you sat on,
Cozing fondly at your bdton,
You were waxing very fat on
An enormous screw.
Five thousand yellow “thick” ’uns
Ain’t the sorb of work that sickens ;
On the contrary, ii quickens
Up a man right through ;
’Tis the very sort of labour
One loves better than his neighbour,
Let us thump the merry tabor,
For the bold Hebrew.
The Brickbat.
[SLUNG BY “TITUS SALT."]
Rudolph of Auati i», a sort of combination
Archduke and Crown Prince, died unexpectedly
last week, and gave up the ghost 1 , and also slept
with his fathers, for which reason we trust these
ancestors do not throw their legs about much and
let fly wildly with their feet in the midst of their
slumbers. The deceased prince was a man of no
ordinary character, as is evidenced by the fact
that ever since he was dead he has kept on dying
over and over again, and in the course of a week
he has perished enough to kill a whole town.
He died first of apoplexy, leaving behind him a
number of farewell letters, and he was also shot
with acute rheumatism and dynamited with a bow
and arrow. He got wet, and the seeds of a
lingering nitro-glycerine explosion were sown in
his lungs," and he got a sunstroke in the back
corner of a coal-cellar at midnight, and further he
died of violent revolver brought on through ex-
posure to somebody with firearms who had a
grievance against him. We have not jumped to
these conclusions, but have investigated the sub-
ject carefully and arrived at our decision by pro-
tracted tramcar, as it were; and after deep
research we have finally ascertained that the
deceased prince fell over a baked-potato barrow
and landed heavily on his generous red ear with
fatal results. He ate something dead which set
up internal inflammation of some organ with
a name which it would kill anybody to
pronounce, and on top of this disaster he
broke both legs while washing his head, and
his intellect suddenly gave way just as he was
putting on a clean collar, in consequence of
CAUSE AND DEFECT.
(OVERHEARD on the overland route )
PASSENGER (from Victoria): “IT STRIKES ME THAT THE MORAL-
STATUS OF PARLIAMENT IN YOUR COLONY HAS REACHED
A VERY LOW EBB. HOW DO YOU ACCOUNT FOR IT?’
N.S.W. STATESMAN: “WELL, YOU SEE, ITS LIKE THIS; WE
DUSSENT SAY IT ON THE ’USTINS, BUT ITS ALL ALONG
OF THIS YERE BLOOMIN’MAN’OOD SUFFERIDGE. THAT’S
W'ERE IT IS!”
which he dropped up dead with a loud shriek
which he paid another man to utter for him in
order to encourage local industry. In his last
hours he waa tripped ud by a small boy with a
string, which is believr d to have hastened his end.
The deceased prince always slept on the floor after
fastening up the bed-curtains to keep the mos-
quitoes inside, and he made a point of putting the
haviag Lpped on * tin tek that .ometaiy 'had
hung up on the floor, which supplies an eloquent
warning to people who look for nails with their
feet; though, according to other authorities he
was the victim of a secret society for the purpose
rtf Wnimr nn ” J
“ n t P h!L P Tn \ d waa
bv a Htdonhiai. a^f*i,
he imolored with his lato i p
fl mnel in 1? A WhG
death he went out shotting with the Prince of
Wales, and it is suspected that his massive brain
became petrified on that occasion and lost a good
deal of the dimensions and tonnage which formerly
hriw-hf t.. hh. n-w whi.k ha. b.Ai..
«d S
hirrBonTt 8 :il dRbOU ‘
there ever hav.ng been such a person at all.
There was a little social difficulty the other
day in a gaol which lies about half way between
Sydney and Brisbane as you go round by Western
Australia, bearing slightly eff in the direction of
Fiji, and those who took a hand in the proceed-
ings resolved, in their own minds, that the local
Australian is a warlike animal when he gets loose.
A certain shock-headed bucolic person bad been
summoned as a witness in a case concerning
a load of timber, and the local lawyer cross-ex-
amined him till he unconsciously admitted that he
had sold the timber to three different individuals,
and had removed it again by night from three dif-
ferent backyards, and had collected the price
of it three times over, after which he had
burned it himself. When he had finished this
statement he began to realise as through
a'glass darkly that he had made an ass of himself,
and he told the lawyer that he would drag his
head off when he met him outside. This state-
ment led to him being thrown out himself, and
after getting violently and confusedly drunk at
various public houses he borrowed two saws and
an axe-handle, and with a wild glare in his eye
he went out and looked for the legal adviser with
a view to tearing him apart. A policeman
cautioned him about this stage of the proceedings
and took the two saws and the axe-handle from
him, bub instead of settling down he gob
drunk over again and swarmed over the
lawyor’s back fenc© with an inmiSEs© club.
Then he sat down and announced that he
was a drinker of blood, and that he was going to
spread gore everywhere on the smiling earth, but
two policemen climbed after him and took him
away with a rush to a lonely cell, where they
chained him up on a charge of attempting to dis-
mantle a lawyer with a stick. Five minutes later
there was an unparalleled row in that cell, and,
after casting one wild glance through the keyhole^
the policeman in
charge fled for his
life. The chain was
too long, and the
prisoner at the end of
it was kicking out the
window with bis feet,
and stating that he
wanted to be a bird
so that he could fly to
thee. Then he dashed
the window-sash into
the yard, and dragged
out a loose bar with
which he demolished
ha’f the partition sepa-
rating the cell from
the adjacent office.
As he put his head
through the hole
someone besought him
to be calm, and poured
a bucket of water over
his features which
made him splutter
considerably, but be
aimed a lamp at his
assailant and broke
him all up. He
smashed the cell
also, and crowded two
stretchers through the
ruins, and then he tore
up the other three
walls of the apart-
ment and brought
down the roof, and
finally there was noth-
ing left but a post and
chain and a prisoner
dancing a fiendish jig
under the stars. He
did not become even
comparatively calm
till far on in the night,
and it was not till
noon next d >y that it
was considered safe to fine him five shillings, and
then he raised such a fiendish row that the fine
was remitted and he was let off with a caution.
He came round a little later with a crowbar
and two brawny confederates, and the three of
them made the magistrate withdraw the caution,
and ultimately the prisoner was released without
a stain on his character; and even then he hung
about and wanted to know what the beak wanted
to make allusions to his character at all for, but
just at this crisis news arrived that a strange
Chinaman was approaching the town, and the
party went away to throw stones at him and haul
on his pigtail, and peace once more supervened.
* •
lb Is rather late In the day to start a new
sermon about the undermining character of strong
drink, but the case of a man bearing the warlike
name of Jones, who was lately brought up in a
Queensland police court, suggests that there are
new dangers lurking in the blowing fowl—we
mean the flowing bowl—and that he who fixes his
bilious optic on the fusel-oil shall fall and great
will bs the sickening thud thereof. Jones was
able and energetic, and was just at that age when
llis human affections are coming out strong, and
the sweet flowers of sentiment are taking root in
the human soul. He had no boobs and no crown
to his hat; he carried a slate and a penci l , and he
made his living b? stopping people in the street
and waving both hands in the air, and smiting
himself on the chest, and pointing vaguely in a
north-easterly direction, and then jumping up and
down two or three times and tearing his hair,
after which he would signify on the slate that he
had become deaf and dumb through falling from
a horse, and that he was c illecbing money to have
an operation performed in order to lift this cala-
mity off his soul. He earned some £3 or £4 a
week by tbi i system and w»s getting on well in
life, till one unhappy day when he got so drunk
that a policeman took his slate from him and
wrote upon it that he had better move on. Then
Jones forgot all about being deaf and dumb, and
cursed the officer in 10 languages, and told him to
depart into sheol, and offered bo shout for him, and
said he was an escaped Irishman from the bogs,
and a Chinese pirate without any head. In short,
he gave away the whole system on which he had
depended for his support, in exchange for the
fleeting pleasure of cursing a po’iceman, who
straightway ran him in. Mr. Jones now breaks
stones for the Government, and his hard-earned
money has been confiscated and given to the hos-
pital, and when he comes out of gaol he will pro-
bably have bo sboyel dirt for a livelihood. He is
only the shadowy wreck of his former self, and
the industry which formerly supported him in
atfl uence is o?i > led to him for ever, and all these
troubles arise through the accursed influence of
strong drink.


At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frank ton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
The jocular George H. Reid said at
Campbelltown lately that the Protectionists re-
minded him of the “gentlemen who sell lightning
pills behind flaring lights at Paddy’s Market,
guaranteeing them to cure anything from bron-
chitis to a glass eye.” This unfortunate allusion
to a glass eye affords us an opportunity of remind-
ing Mr. Reid that an election in East Sydney is
the lightning cure for an eyeglass.
The other day Dan-yell O’Connor com-
plained in the N.S.W. Parliament of “the ab-
sence of his name appearing in the division-list in
the morning papara.” A day or two afterwards
one Stephen, another Foreign-trader, in address-
ing the Botany voters observed : “ Fellow-
electors : I have shown yer fwhat the Parkes
Ministry have done for the land, now I’ll show
yer the einseless policy laid down by their in-
coming praydecessors. ”
One of the moat effective chargee levelled
by Major Atkinson against the Stout-Vogel Ad-
ministration was that of political appointments
to fat billets, but all Vogel’s weakness in that
direction during three years of office has been
eclipsed by Atkinson himself in three months.
Under the name of retrenchment, political op-
ponents have been dispensed with, and their
places filled by subordinates whose friendliness to
tie existing Government was their best recom-
mendation. Offices have been created for others
whose removal from the scene of political strife
was necessary, and the case of Shannon, who gets
£1000 a year for travelling the country and in-
specting Customs invoices, has been repeated in a
variety of less serious forms.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be truei
—that Pemell’s Snow-whits Patent Row, kb Fiona i« i.h*
best in the market
The grandeur of scenery seen from Jtfred. W 1 o-
ken’s Beaoonsfield House Hotel Is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1X00(1. above sea lev«l.
fcTK f)»lr iw> tonn ftonn Uilboam
JOHN & CO.p
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
46-page Country Properties, Farms, Gracing
Properties, &0., &o.
86-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas.
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Prlited List ef Biilneues far lets lueed Dally,
All List* posited Frnr on application.
Personal Items.
Peter Lalor la dead, aged (52.
Quong Tart and Way Lee are Masons.
Mr. Dailey’s three tons left for England
by the Orizaba.
Max O’Rell denies that he Intends visiting
Australia.
Sir George Grey’s father was killed at the
storming of Badajos.
Cardinal Manning has urged his priests to
preach against dancing.
Her Gracious has been made a cwlonel In
the German army. Colon si Victoria !
The late Mr. Lange, of Lange and Thone-
man, Melbourne, left £9(5,000 to his family.
Max Klein, the first violin In Cowan’s
orchestra, is a cousin of Julian Salomons, Q.O.
Rudolph Theodore Oelmann, South Aus-
tralia’s best vocalist, will sing no more on earth.
Baron Tennyr on published his first volume
of poems nearly filty-nine years ago. And he still
lives.
Alban Jubilee Riley, mortified at the
downfall of N.S.W, Cal:co-Jimmyism, is off to
Europe.
Sala writes 300 leaders per annum for the
London Daily Telegraph— but never on political
subjects.
Lady Colin Campbell is writing a series of
articles in the World (London), entitled “ A
Woman’s Walks.”
Rider Haggard makes the eclipse of the
moon take place at new moon in one of his novels.
This is a scientific impossibility.
Mr. W. B. Dailey’s will was last week
proved under £OB5l. However, his children are
made rich by their mother’s estate.
Mr. Sebastian Gsorge, the mind-reader,
who five years ago foretold the future of Broken
Hill, is on the staff of the Silver Age,
At Parkes’s wedding, Sydney Burdekia
gave away the bride, Miss Dixon, daughter of the
late Mr. T. Dixon, Wcollar, Northumberland,
England.
Sir Maurice O’Rorke has returned to
N.Z. after a three months’ tour in Australia. He
says were he a young man that he would settle in
Queensland.
“The Australian in London,’’ by J. F.
Hogan, and “Australia and the Empire,” by
Patchett Martin, were published in Loud an during
the month of January.
Frank Darwin, son of Missing-link Dar-
win, has been raking up statistics to prove that
first cousins may marry without the fear of becom-
ing the parents of idiots.
Bishop Tfaorold of Gloucester, Pximate
Barry’s particular friend, now in Sydney, is a
brother-in-law to Labouchere, the agnostic editor
of Truth. Thus do extremes meet.
Major Vincent, of the Kennedy Regiment,
Townsville (Q ), has been attached to the Imperial
troops for active service in the Soudan, and has
gone to Suakim to shoot niggers for her Gracious,
“Jimmy ” Whistler contemptuously refers
to Mortimer Menpesas “an Australian immigrant
of Fulbam—who, like the kangaroo of his country,
is born with a pocket and puts everything into it,"
Frederick Bryant, the match manu-
facturer, left £270,000, He was a prominent
member of the four-in-hand club, and it used to
be said of him that “ he looked very striking on
the box. ”
The full name of the Earl of Kintore, the
new Governor of South Australia, is Algernon
Hawkins Thomond Keith-Falconer. His title is
200 years old, and his wife is a daughter of the
Duke of Manchester.
A Melbourne paper has discovered a ten-
dency towards baldness upon the highest elevation
of Governor Loch. Governors are naturally bald
and unconvincing, but we’d be sorry to see Sir
Henry lose his Lochs.
The Bulletin has received a trustworthy
cablegram, stating that the Crown Prince of
Austria was squeezed to death by a beautiful
baroness, who mistook him for a gamekeeper, and
poisoned herself in disgust upon discovering her
error.
The fat Duchess of Teek Is a wonderful
gourmande. An American was recently speaking
of his intention to offer her a pair of canvas back
ducks. “Ob,” said an English friend, “she
would make short work of them.; offer her a
couple of wild turkeys.”
Colonel F. Hughes-Hallett, ib was lately
cabled, is now paralysed. This is the second
attack. He was helpless from the hips down-
wards for weeks about the year ’C4, through a
fall from his horse, and was one of the first good
cures by magneto-electricity.
The Princess Louise —the daughter of
Plantagenent who wedded the Lord of Lome, and
who is likely enough to be the next Governoress of
N.S.W.—has made a statue of her Royal mamma,
and has inflicted it on the people of Windsor. It
is said to resemble a bran new Aunt Sally, minus
the pipe.
Melton Prior, after “doing” the Mel-
bourne Cup for the Illustrated London News,
was hastening to England to spend Christmas
with his family when he was intercepted at Aden
with orders to send along tome pictures from
Suakim. It is said that the little man is now in
very bad health.
The Duke of Marlborough is accredited
with the shortest Press interview on record. A
Murkan reporter waited on His Disgrace to ascer-
tain his views on the refusal of the rector at Blen-
heim parish to ring the bells in honour of the
ducal marriage, and His Disgrace replied that
“ he didn’t care a d .”
Lawyer Denniston, of Dunedin, just ap-
pointed Judge of the Supreme Court of N.Z, is
44 years of age, commenced life as a post-office
clerk at Invercargill, then entered the service of
the Bank of New South Wales, and eventually,
about 15 years ago, joined the “ devil’s own.” He ’
is a peppery gentleman and not unfrequently dis-
turbed the decorum of the lower courts.
The Earl cf Kintore, who succeeds
Wobinson in South Australia, is of “a religious
turn of mind ” as anticipated by The Bulletin
when his appointment was cabled. Kintore, how-
ever, is understood to be a very well behaved
fellow, for an Earl, and except that he happens to
be half brother-in-law to the Duke of Manchester
nothing is known against the new Gcvernor’s
character.
The exorbitant thirst for information re-
lating to Tummy and his relations prompted the
Melbourne Herald’s correspondent to telegraph
this from Adelaide
The Prince ol Wales laughed loudly and long when he
heard of his old friend, Lord Carington, taking the ohair
at the annual meeting of the Sydney Young Women’s
Christian Association.
Bertie can see a joke then.
When the Duke of Marlborough returned
from America, followed by the accumulated strong
language of the Yankee press, he threatened to
cut out all the slangy articles and vicious para-
graphs directed against him, and hang them up in
his ancestral halls. Things have not gone very
well with him since his return, however, and it is
now suggested that if he hung himself in the
ancestral halls in question he would sort cf con-
dense the subject as it were, and summarise all
the leading points of the question so ta speak.
A San Francisco paper Is responsible for
the following : Lord Augustus Loftus was break-
fasting at the Palace Hotel, ’Frisco, when on his
way to his government in New Sow'ih Wales. At
the same table was a Yankee, who was endeavour-
ing to worry through a piece of tcugh steak as big
as a horse-lip. After vainly endeavouring to make
an impression upon it, he laid down his knife and
fork with the exclamation, “Lord!” The ex-
Ambassador sat up with, “ Are ycu addressing me,
sir ?” “ I am, lord; I want to make a little busi-
ness proposition to you I’ve started about the
red-hottest little watering-place in the whole
State up in Sonoma county, everything way up,—
sulphur springs, bowling-alley, pianna in the
parlor—everything. All I want is to advertise it
a little. Now, I notice you lord fellows are first-
rate cards for hotels. Suppose you come up and
spend a few days at my lay-out. You can stay a
square month if you like, and it shan’t cost you a
cant, ’ceptin’ for drinks, if you are much on the
imbibe. What yer say ?” “ Well, by Jove !” said
his lordship. “I know it’s a square toed, liberal
offer, but I’m giving you the straight tip. All
you’d have to do is to help carve and mebbe sing a
little with the ladies, and play billiards with the
boys. If there’s a hop, we’ll make you floor-
manager, and ” But the new colonial governor
had heard enough. His Lordship rose from the
table, and ordered bis meal to be brought to his
private room.
POLITICAL POINTS
There were L 5 Jewish candidates for the
London County Council.
Ib is the British money lender that wishes
to “ tighten the bonds.” £IQO bonds.
The M‘Mlllion now regards the march of
Protection in N.S.W. “with great anxiety.”
Patriots who fatten up their bleeding
country with legacy-da by are few and far between.
A. G. Taylor would, but for domestic
reasons, have contested Mudgee in theProtectionisl
interest.
“ Freetrade England Is the propagandist
of freedom.” In Ireland ? In South Africa ? In
the Soudan ?
Although the Belgian law still sanctions
capital punishment, King Leopold has never yet
signed a death-warrant.
The orange pest Is, we read, being severely
felt in Victoria just now. Hopes are entertained
that it has come to lodge.
Premier Gillies will not announce the
Government policy until after the dissolution of
Parliament and the issue of writs.
As the Foreign-trade press of Sydney
benefited largely by the general election, it would
VULGAR FRACTIONS.
SQVATTER (on whose land gold has been found)?! “WELL, YES. YOU MAY WORK
MY LAND CONDITIONALLY ON YOUR GIVING ME ONE SIXTH OF
THE OUTPUT.”
DIGGER : “RATHER MUCH, ONE SIXTH.”
SQUATTER: PERHAPS IT IS. LET US SAY A FIFTH—YES, I’LL BE
SATISFIED WITH A FOURTH. I LIKE TO LIVE AND LET LIVE.”
— (Offer Accepted)
be interesting to know how much each newspaper
contributed towards the expenses of the “ Cause,”
lb is alleged that Parkes “courted political
defeat.” Very likely. He is quite faithless enough
to have courted in two directions at once.
Conybeare, M.P., one of the Parnell
party, charged with “ crime ” by the Times, is a
shareholder in the so-called “Thunderer,”
Mr. Alfred Lamb, who unlike hla brother
Walter, is a Foreign-trader, must be regarded as
the lamb-cobbler. This is a shearer’s joke.
“The N.S.W. free, secular and compulsory
Education Act is as safe as the Habeas Corpus
Act.” —Sydney Freeman's Journal. Amen.
Cheers for the Queen and Freetrade are
ostentatiously given at all the N.S.W. Foreign-
trade meetings. There is here a mighty moral. -
We may add to the list of Protectionist
proprietors of the Foreign-trade Sydney Daily
Telegraph the name of Mr. John See, M.L.A.
At the last Cape general election, of the
70 seats disposed of, 25 fell to the Ministry, 35 to
the Africander Bund, and 10 to the Opposition.
“ Go and join the other dogs outside ! You
howling blackguards, go out! ” Fragment from
the late-.t speech of the great statesman Parkes,
On the English Pension List Is an ex-
Lord Chancellor of Ireland who held office for one
day and receives a pension of £l5OO a year for his
trouble.
The Victorian Railway Commissioners ad-
vertised recently for 50 youths as clerks at salaries
from £GS to £BO per annum, and had only 90
applicants.
Several Sydney artizans who left for Mel-
bourne lately have written homo stating that they
had less difficulty in getting work than in obtain-
ing lodgings.
At a recent municipal election at Malacca
the candidates were a Chinaman and a German.
The Ghow polled three votes to the other fellow’s
one, and his pigtail now adds wisdom to the civic
government of Malacca.
Mr. J. E. Tonkin, one of the Foreign-
trade candidates for Bast Macquarie, is an ex
publican and at one lime kept another kind
bar —a toll bar.
“ Beware of the three D’a —Dibbs, Deficit,
and the Devil,” — Parkes, Beware of the four P’s
Parkes, Poverty, Poor-ho as fs, and Promissory-
notes.—Ecu,ktj n.
The Intercolonial Trades Congress at
Hobart has declared by 50 votes to 5 in favour of
intercolonial freetrade and of heavy Protective
duties against the outside world for the encourage-
ment of native industries.
A discriminating Protectionist is a Protec-
tionist. _ A discriminating Freetrader is also a
Protectionist. There are lots of discriminating
Freetraders in N.S.W. Sutherland, for instance.
Likewise Kerosene Street. Also the Balmain
bunch.
Telegrams from Western N.S.W. say that
Primate Barry has been greatly admired in
Bathurst for his broad and open views. And yet
Bathurst electors have just returned to Parlia-
ment one of the most narrow-minded men in the
district.
The Sydney Importers seem to believe that
“ Protection is coming, for we are told that the
extraordinary demand for cargo space in steamers
has induced the P. and 0. Company to arrange
for the despatch of two additional vassals at an
e arly date.
“ A Wife ” asserts In one of the Sydney
morning dailies that* “ wives and mothers are
nearly all Freetraders.” Probably, chiefly be-
cause Freetrade is still “ fashionable,” and, like
many men, they are incapable of clearly investi-
gating the matter.
Freetrade Is only Imperial Federation in
another guise. Freetrade means the Marquis of
Lome and a British princess at Government
House, Sydney. Protection means federation of
the colonies and a united Australian Republic
within 20 years.
At a sale of farming land near Glenor-
miston, Victoria, £100,745 worth of agricultural
land was sold in small lots at prices ranging from
£9 to £5O per acre. Yet the Sydney Foreign-
traders continue to state boldly that farming in
Victoria is unprofitable.
Mr. Yoosy Taylor, the Foreign-trade
candidate for Parramatta, says he is opposed to
payment of members “because members of Par-
liament receive sufficient remuneration in pick-
ings.” As Mr. Taylor has bsen in Parliament
some 17 years, he ought to know.
The Sydney D.T. baa recently ornamented
the front of its office with a political barometer
which purports to show the vicissitudes of the
N.S.W. general election. There was no need of
this innovation, for the simple reason that the
D.T. itself is a political weathercock.
We shall hear the stentorian vofcj of Dr.
Ross, of Molong, in the new N. S. W. Parliament
inveighing against the corruption of the Land and
Survey Department. Last session he roundly ac-
cused surveyors of being gailty of the atrocious
crime of subordination and perjury. Subordina-
tion is excellent.
Voice In the senatorial halls of a great
and rising nation : “Mr. Speaker, the ginerality
of mankind in gineral is disposed to take advan-
tage of the ginerality of mankind in gineral ”
Voice from the other side of the House: “Sit
down, you old hass ; you’re coming out of the
same hole you went in at.”
A Melbourne paper states that “Jack ”
Want has more insurance on his life than any
other man in Australia, £20,000 is said to be the
figure that Mr. Want values himself at, and, see-
ing that he was the fellow who capsized Parkes,
we are inclined to think that his estimate is rather
under than over the mark.
What same candidates will do for a vote.
The secretary of the N.S.W. Goad Templars
election committee advertises that Mr. Frank
Parnell pledged himself to vote for the application
of local option to the renewal of publicans’licenses
without compensation—and urges the electors to
go straight for that gentleman. Mr Farnell is a
wine and spirit merchant.
Mr. Garland, N.S.W. Foreign-trade candi-
date, was away during the general elections taking
a course of baths at Te Aroha (N.Z.), but was
nevertheless returned, chiefly through the exer-
tions of the fascinating Mrs. Garland. It strikes
us that Charles had better stay away altogether,
and keep on washing himself, and let Mrs. G.
represent him in Parliament.
In Its anxiety to stir up sectarian strife
the Evening News of sth inst. said that Premier
Dibbs and Mr. Slattery had paid a visit in the
police steam-launch the previous Sunday to Car-
dinal Moran at Manly. According to the same
issue the Cardinal was opening a church at
Moruya, 250 miles from Manly. The Evening
News is indeed a splendid liar.
Evidences are nob wanting that solid John
Bull himself is waking up to the fallacies of
Oobdenism. This is from an English comic
paper :
INGREDIENTS FOR A GOOD OLD ENOLISU
PLUM PUDDING.
Take of American flour 21ba., American suet 11b.,
Spanish raisins 11b., Zante currants 11b., French beet root
sugar lib., candied peel jib., mixed epices loz., mix, &o.
Tie all up in cloth, not of British manufacture, place it in
German-made block-tin boiler, on American patent cook-
ing-stove, heated by Belgian coal; take care that your
dishes, plates, knives, spoons, forks, &o, do not come
from any home manufactory, and add to the zest with
which you enjoy, on Christina i Day, this good old English „
fare, by comfortably reflecting that you, the con.inner,
have helped, not even to the extent of a poor brass
farthing, that unmitigated scoundrel, whom we all agree
to bully and abuse, the producer, who is of our own flesh
and blood!


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1888.
v
VQTf FOR
Parked
9$
'r Ej IRADf
my stella Kissed me
& Ti.
fa, Oryji^
r
ir-.-*’*
A hr
| Jt PjA'
I *
G \
a
V)
1
if i
(I
vi
c^
o
kt T,
5 s s
<o
-CN- 5
jc -4
<3>
c-
«v)
qj
c o
<^i
i^
/(, ra/ic/- 6(Jr/rcu&t "tj
abase fyar'S at |
<S Ip7/k? e pct&d c/y*y7/e/
If[t h j/cUACoyso'easiy
JcnUf&S eyt/eyi ef-
face. a 9 * WS'H tyf?
documents a T^ eU "Tr
fa.J. 7 /c,Je*-n far-
fcs*' Sf* J,f 9 cf'U,h
1 IVfz? 'f
• drops' tf)/o /ooefry
fa j
To (>& Tfi a.
Ca^ e hr/'/t
m, /'
A FRAGMENT
ţ


you S/f //e/rry ■ - /uA Aeuc e
'cf/dyf yuu '/f /kyou.- - kAyy
tdotlfa f*"*/"*? K y*“ *
CofoL/no / yy e ffyou-
®S«
'•//•'*■' , , ;
S O/V Cf £T
■ r 7 “ c/ece/pA /y&rryecC r 7^y
My c/ear //you. tyUSf’ Feud k$
7 ClJJou) fl rzconyrryetyd 7/y/S
//ocJ Joy* /fi'OOy /Co nyo/
A Cause you rfe
\
€ 7 Aac / hfcilrfyf
c /Lj/r co a r (/i~
" Z A art
Ka i?o fleet <*//“?
x haf* f'/t/e fc
' rf? a flu Cure
. 'r & '
_________ — y/
/rr * f^vs/k/reutfi/oi*
V. \yytirtief./>'rfa sr . ;
.&*—?>} /ffu cap/eart o//^jf^s
(ficcf c/r/Af/ \ », r '
IIA 1
\ ■
/o~jfie,qcC 'of e 5
rfo/peyr^oop
>r y'etfocJ e/
/-/&.?/> stpe. Tx>// spy //St/e yo-'^
LOVE’S OLD DREAM— PARK ES’ COALITION.


Dry Imperial Champagne.— Messrs. Moot and Chandon
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro-
ducers in the world. Their “ DRY IMPERIAL * 1884
vintage is the pure juice of selected grapes from their ow n
vineyards of 2500 acres in the choicest districts in France.
The Imperial Crown is in each corner of label, and 1884
branded on oork and label.
SWEET BOROMIA. the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from th West Australian " Soronia
Megistiffuia." Bold Everywhere. Price, Bs. 6d.,
55., and !•■. Post tree to any address In
Australasia. Be sure yon get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONQMORS, 188 Bourkr-it., Hast,
TOiWMS.
That famona old Sydney hoatelrie, the
Grand Hotel, Wynyard Square, haa changed
hands and is now under the management of Mr.
P. Hust, a name synonymus with a first-class
cuisine, the best of liquors, good attendance, and
every other essential that goes to make a first-
class hotel.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 18SI.
THK LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Huslo,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special Attention la called to the following
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBBL and LEOHLEITER PIANOS
F. SOHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURIOH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Plano ever
factured
Car BELLING PIANO, whleh cannot be ex
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves I The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, In order that a
first-class Instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
" cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBBRAL TIME-PAYMENT BTBTBM.
Hi H. PALiNC ft 60-> 111
•Re GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.O.
Society
Ex Premier Parkea’a “ Baby Song,”
printed in the last OenTennial Magazine, will
now'strike a section of the public as having been
altogether too previous j the old man only got
married again last Wednesday. The little affair
was kept very quiet, and not a word about it
appeared in any newspaper save a Protection
organ. Next day Parkes was on the stump in
the Dubbo district. What a wonderful old man,
and what a way to spend one’s honeymoon!
* * •
This latest freak of the principal Foreign-
trader is a magnificent illustration of his real
character. The other day he told us that “ Death
had been staring him in the face for years ; ” a
week or two afterwards he writes a Baby Song—
and then he goes and gets married ! The day
after the wedding he calmly stands up at Dubbo
and tells the electors he has already lived longer
than the average period of human life and per-
sonally has very little interest in the future ! A
nice thing, this, to tell your blushing bride on the
day after her wedding.
• * •
However, now that the frisky young man
has again entered upon the matrimonial state,
The Bulletin cordially wishes him many years of
wedded blßs, and devoutly hopes that he will live
long enough to make himself considerably more
perfect in his knowledge of natural history. Cats
don't eat frogs as Parkes innnuates in his baby-
song aforesaid.
* * *
The Parkealan wedding was rather sudden,
but the courtship is understood to have been an
affair of long duration. Sir Henry stated in the
Assembly some time since that he had “ something
very pleasant occupying his spare hours ” —which
somewhat indefinite remark seems to have been
pretty accurately interpreted by many hon.
members.
Now that Parkea ia married we trust that
he will become more gentlemanly in his mode of
expressing himself, and will not make use of lan-
gwidge such as he employed at the St. Leonards
hustings while musing in the bosom of his family.
Sundry of his ash-heap observations concerning
monkeys and other things were not of the kind
that any lady wants to hear.
• •
Here la Sir Henry’s very latest, reeled off
at Bathurst cn Saturday night, two days after his
marriage
When they saw an old man like Mr. Dibbs —and he was
in all the elements of strength about 20 years older than
he (Sir Henry) was—tottering, as Mr. Dibbs tottered,
towards the grave—(laughter)—it was a bad sign. He
(Sir Henry) belonged to the stock of men who lived to be
120. (Laughter ) He belonged to tbs good old stock of
men, not the imitation creatures. He had only arrived at
the summer of his manhood, and he expected to be
amongst them, and preserve this grand old cause of free-
dom for some 30 years yet. (Laughter ) Kitty Lloyd,
who died about 50 years ago at the »ge of 107, was
followed to the grave by two of her daughters,
each of whom was more than 80 (laughter); and a i old
gentleman named John Riva, who died a fev years ago at
the age of 116 , left behind him a boy of only 10 years of
age. (Laughter.) Then there was that noble old lady
the Countess of Deemond, who lived to be 145 years of
age. She was walking in her garden in her 140th year,
when she saw a cluster of ripe cherries, and being young,
active, and nimble, she climbed up the tree to pluck the
tempting fruit, and in doing so broke her neck, or she
would have been living now. (Loud laughter.) Well, he
belonged to the race of men and women of that kind, and
he would outlive the youngest Protectionist in that room.
We think it will be generally admitted by the old
man’s best friends that they would at least as
soon hear him uttering whines about his “ bread-
less home ” and about “ death staring him in the
face,” and declaring that he “ was standing in the
light of the grave ” and “ had no interest in the
future,” and so on, as find him boasting, with the
pride that goeth before a fall, about how long he
intended to live.
• * *
The money recently raised as a public tes-
timonial to Sir Henry Parkea amounts, we are
told, to some £BOOO, and is now to be settled on
Sir Henry’s new wife. If the whole story of this
testimonial and the negotiations concerning its
settlement, together with all circumstances there-
to, could be placed before the public, society
would be much edified.
• •
Sir Henry Parkes In his speech at Sb.
Leonards, the other day, threw out a happy sug-
gestion. Ho said : “Why not tax the babies?—
babies can be manufactured here, therefore they
ought to be taxed." We think he is for once
logically right. It is manifestly unfair to persons
here engaged in the industry aforesaid to have to
compete with England, Germany, France, and
China in the production of “olive-branches.” If
an enterprising Foreign trader were to import into
our market from Hongkong say 10,000 Chinese
babies, and offer them to the public at “ridicu-
lously low ” prices, every “ mother ” in the colony
would at once see the pernicious effects of foreign-
trade. The cheapness of the article, its finished
workmanship, the stamp of the Chinese manufac-
turer, the beauty and holiness of encouraging the
industries of Hongkong, an island comprised in
the same great and immortal empire to which we
ourselves have the inestimable privilege of belong-
ing, would, no doubt, be advanced in favour of
the article with all the eloquence and sophistry
which foreign-traders delight in. Yet, we do the
i too credulous genthr sex the credit to
believe that not one of them would become a pur-
chaser on the ground that she might have the
foreign article cheaper, &o , than her own native
manufacture, which, of course, would be a little
dear er.
* *
It 1b now prttty plain that a woman waa
at the bottom of Parkes’ recent political troubles.
It is also more than equally certain that there was
a woman at the bottom of the proceedings of
Parkes’ opponents. And such a charming woman,
too.
* * -
Parramatta, with a population of 10,COO,
doss not possess a notary public. The distressed
people have tp come to Sydney to get a notarial
certificate. I b may not be generally known that
notaries public are appointed by that eminent
foreigner, the Archbishop of Canterbury, who re-
ceives a fee of £5O for every appointment.
• * •
A Melbourne paper, by way of wreaking a
malignant vengeance on the dead, publishes hh
aggravated photograph of the late Archduke
Rudolph, and when this demoniac work of art has
had time to soak in, as it were, and has taken
root, in a manner of speaking, we expect that
Austria will either declare war or start sending
out microbes. The lost Prince is represented as a
man with a long face, a fixed eye with an extinct
expression in it, a large and widespread ear, and
hair that stands out in all directions, and he is
partially choked by a high brick collar. His
moustache turns up a good deal, and his beard is
badly frayed at the ends. He is dressed in a gar-
ment which goes right across his chest and seems
to fasten nowhere, but probably he gets into it
from underneath. This soul-destroying incubus is
thrown in without extra charge, and the whole
Satanic aggravation is dashed at the public along
with a brief biographical sketch, which tends to
show that it was perpetrated in cold blood and
heaved in by some one who was fully responsible
for the infamy of the whole comprehensive sin.
• • *
Lord Onslow, the coming N Z, Governor,
having been attacked in the Surrey Advertiser
by certain pumpkin-headed Pharisees for getting
ia his harvest on the Sabbath, refers his critics to
This Is - 3
round our 'boarding pouffe. . "^ct - anything
-Vo* - a poor 1" 1 '
askeJ
Way Park’s a. Davits—patron -ramfi o|i
Hvi'. untfnployid look "(jowiy on yon I(( soon
<jeP rid th'S' " '
'kot at tfn. firsj" muutnful felt his throat"
-creaK and a r,ubarb &
rise thiriiq
iWrfbtli SS Hi ks-p 1 hi*- Word <\ot
nd of- iP —-
and consuoos of hii revvnqt- oowid
H'msel['"ou'r D2rlin£jhurst
firjr e i)
po| ii\
yjary Anfl , Iffi a< l oin houT af won't bt
back, f.ll but"
lure llli - JiAlir in hocjAasH and
Hash raiiiil hir <|in<jhafr ( and
Cain *jv its, rally y
“SOUP, OH!”
(DEDICATED TO OUR OWN LANDADY.)
Matthew xii., and proceeds : “ In addition to the
Divine sanction it may be useful to remind them
that the highest earihly authority stopped to
express her approval of similar exertions to secure
the fruits of the earth in due seasoa.” This is
most satisfactory. The Divine opinion alone is
not enough, but when her Pre-eminencs in Grief
kindly endorses the views of the Almighty the
matter is, indeed, clinched. What a groveller
must this Onslow be I
• •
A little Sydney girl was the other day re-
proved by her mother for using the word sweat.
“Never say ‘sweat,’ my dear, ‘ perspiration ’ is
ever so much better.” The next time Nellie
wanted to express herself in that direction it was
in the drawing room before a big company. “ Oh,
ma,” said she, “I’m .so hot. The Presbyterians
are rolling right down my back,”
* * #
According to latest cable lies Prince
Rudolph, of Austria, was shot by mistake while
jumping at midnight through a window that he
bad no right to jump through, in a house that he
shouldn’t have been in ; and died in consequence.
This is positively the last time this prince will be
allowed to die in these columns. P.S.—Notwith-
standing the above resolution we feel compelled to
reopen the question in order to supply more par-
ticulars which arrived while the above details
were getting dry. The latest statements tend to
show that the Prince wasn't) killed when he came
out of the window. He was only wounded, but
the gamekeeper who shot him fancied he was
dead and immediately committed suicide. Then
the lady whom the Prince was visiting committed
suicide also, and when the Prince recovered and
found that he was the only person left alone he
suicided as well. Afterwards the lady regained
consciousness, having missed her aim and merely
fainted from fright; but on viewing the surround-
ings she immediately uttered a piercing scream
and shot herself some more. A quarter of an hour
later the gamekeeper revived. He had merely
fired, in the air and then shammed dead, but the
hardness of the ground had caused him to lose
his senses. He took the bearings of things and
blew his brains out, and when the lady sat up
about three o’clock in the morning—the bullet
having merely lodged in her back hair —she saw
his remains scattered loosely on the floor and
giving way to despair she killed herself.
* * 9
If any value can be attached to public
report there are awfully rough times ahead
for the Duke of Marlborough, and if things
do not mend that man of ancient pedigree
may shortly find himself sitting on the floor
in his old, baronial ruin, with nothing but
four, bare walls and a bulgv umbrella to com-
fort him in the hour of his affliction. The family
of his second wife’s first husband are now bringing
an action against that lady to recover the fortune
which alone prevents Marlborough’s pants becom-
ing frayed at the feet, and, they believe they have
evidence to prove that the dead and mouldering
Hammersley lost his head in the effort to accu-
mulate coin, and was generally null and void
when he went away and left his income behind
him. If they succeed Marlborough will still have
his wife left to him, but the lady’s pile will vanish
like the baseless fabric of a dream ; and then there
will probably be another duke on his uppers in the
cold, inhospitable street, or else a shingle will be
hung out setting forth that “Marlborough, clear-
starcher and ironer,” is .open to receive orders
within.
• * *
lb strikes The Bulletin that the intensely
musical section of the community has only two
moods. When it is not in a venomous state of
mind it is absolutely maudlin. The other night,
at an orchestral concert in Sydney, conductor
Oowen was “ rewarded with applause and
flowers." It’s all very well to give flowers to a
woman, provided that she is either young and
pretty or old and grey haired, but to give flowers
to a man —booh ! It looks as bad to see a full-
grown, strong-limbed man public’y carrying an
uncovered bouquet as it does to see a woman cut-
ting up meat at a butcher’s block. Yes, it is as
unseemly to reward a man with flowers in a pub
lie place as it would be to put a rose instead of a
lemon into the mouth of a dead sucking-pig.
Among those who fling flowers to a male orches-
tral conductor are to be found a large number of
persona who would bite his ear off for fourpence
if they happened to be in a bad humour.
* • *
A pathetic story has been left bahlnd
among the ruins of the Melbourne Exhibition. In
the picture gallery one day a middle-aged man
was shedding tears in front of a homely little
landscape with a cottage and a potato-field in it,
when a woman came along, and, after casting a
glance at the picture, gave a start and commenced
to weep violently. He asked her the cause of her
emotion, and she pointed to the painted scene and
said that she was born there. He was born there,
too. He asked her name, and ascertained that it
was Smith. Her father had been named Smith
also, and she had played in that same potato-field
in the happy days of her childhood, when life was
still a primrose way of innocent joyfulness and
there was no shadow on its horizon. His name
was Smith, too, and he had played in the same
field. He mentioned this fact, and she uttered a
shrill scream, and said he was her long-lost
brother. He said he was, and she fell into his
arms. Then she burst into wild hysterics, and
fled screaming. He followed, but she was out of
sight. His watch and chain were also out of
sight, and her pal accidentally hit him behind the
ear while he was looking round for her, thereby
stopping his 'investigations, They never met
again. She wasn’t his sister, and her name was
not Smith, and she had never seen the place de-
scribed in the picture that she had been weeping
over. He had never seen it either; in fact, he
had been weeping in front of the wrong picture by
mistake. The watch was an old Geneva with no
works in it, and the chain was a brass one. It
was a sell all round,
* # *
The following advertisement (from the
Sydney Evening News) speaks eloquently for
itself
■yOUNG Widower (29), no family, good appearance
and affectionate, having comfortable home,
would like to meet young woman or widow (little
woman preferred) to act as housekeeper previous to
marriage. Address full particulars to “HOME,”
Gsnsral Pcst-offlos, Sydney.
This style of advertisement, if properly en-
couraged, will doubtless become marvellously
popular with “ affectionate ”■ widowers. “To act
as housekeeper previous to marriage.” How long
previous to marriage, dear Alfred ?
• * «
A rumour was current last week that
Mandarin Quong Tart, the Chinese Scotchman of
Sydney, now on a visit to China, had been be-
headed. This report obtained extensive currency
among some truculent Chinese of Lower George-
street, who seem to be of opinion that Quong is
too fond of white society to ba a Chinaman of any
account, and that he deserves the fate which in
the Flowery Land is accorded to political hum-
bugs—i.e., having his head chopped off How-
ever, as a cablegram has since been received from
Qrong, dated from Canton, it is presumed that he
still has his head upon his shoulders.
* * •
A story of bottomless deceit and ini-
quitous perfidy in a red headed man named Gil-
christ, comes from Melbourne. Some time back
Mrs. Gilchrist was found dead in a public place,
and, refusing to move on when ordered so to do,
she was arrested and incarcerated in the morgue,
where she lay for some time awaiting identifica •
tion, Amongst the many who dropped in, seek-
ing missing friends, went Mr. Gilchrist, but he
gazed upon the remains of the wife of his bosom
with a cold, careless eye, and told the officer av th’
law that he had not the pleasure of her acquaint-
ance, Then he turned nonchalantly to an
asphyxiated Chinaman, looked up a corpulent
gentleman who had been found drowned, glanced
with some show of interest over the items in the
collection, and coolly departed whence he came,
for he was wise as the serpent, and ahead of his
generation, and purposed saddling his country
with the cost of Mrs Gilchrist’s obsequies. The
authorities, being unable to discover deceased’s
name and identity, buried her under the impres-
sion that she was nobody at all. After many days
Mr. Gilchrist, feeling solid, began to tell admiring
friends how he’d hooassed the blooming Govern-
ment, and chaffed the police-force, and had the
coroner on a string. These whisperings reached
the ears of the powers ; and an officer took Mr.
Gilchrist up by the ear, and held him up in a pub-
lic place, whilst an infuriated coroner called him
15 inferior animals, and animadverted on his con-
science and early education, because of his unut-
terable cussedness. The widower, however, did
not seem to suffer from these hard reflections ; he
merely said that his wife had given him nine
years of trouble, and he had decided to shake her
dust from his feet.
« • •
Mistress (bo mud who has just received
a month’s notice): “ I would| rather not give you
a character at all; but if you insist upon it, of
course I shall tell the truth about you.” Maid :
“And if you do, ma’am, I shall subtingly bring
an action for defimation of character.”


Typhoid.
Whilk the whole community is deeply interested
in the alarming spread of this fatal disease, it is
amazmg to c ntemplate the fearful amount of
indifference exhibited with regard to its dangers.
VV hether it is communicated to the human frame
by microbes,” “bacilli," cr more simply speak-
ing by germs, ’ it seems agreed that improved
sanitation is the main remedy for preventing its
propagation. This indeed has been clearly proved
by the results obtained in England since attention
has been given to strict sanitary law, and it
behoves every householder, or occupier of a dwell-
ing, in these colonies, to keep this fact in view
and act accordingly, with respect to his own
premises and its surroundings. So long, however
as individuals have no control over their neigh-
bours proceedings, and the authorities are inactive
so long will liability to the disease be perpetuated!
Under these circumstances, we have to look for
the next best thing to be done, and bearing in
mind that the state of the physical system is an
important factor in relation to susceptibility to
the germ, it should become a matter of constant
and watchful care that the tone of the system
should be kept np to good form It not un-
frequently occurs that persons habitually healthy
and vigorous, begin at times to feel a degree of
lassitude and disinclination to exertion, and a
sensation of “tiredness,” without any apparent
cause, occasionally, not constantly perhaps is
noticed by the individual himself. This may arise
from the disorganization of some important
functional part of the insernal economy —it may
be the liver or the kidneys that are not properly
performing their office. The result is the com-
munication of poisonous acids to the blood, and
this becoming vitiated, the disposition to “hous-
ing the germ of typhoid will be the result,
whereas, if the impairment did not exist, the germ
probably would not find lodgment
The recent case of Constable Cameron in the
Eolice Hospital is in point. At the inquest held
on h!s remains, it was stated by the Medical
Officer in charge, that had it not been for the
diseased condition of the kidneys, he would not in
have become one of the victims of
Therefore, whatever tends to keep the organs
in their normal condition is the best antidote to
typhoid, and for this, there is nothing equal to
Warner’s safe cure, which has been thoroughly
tasted by thousands, and incontestibly proved to
aci as represented.
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES iWITH! GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.-A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE DF
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Ton tin* Period, or in the invent of Survival, FULL P A RTTOIP A
IN TONTINE SURPLUS tmr Hranohet Id dII Oolowtdw lo Unitdo Kinopom A I lON
Gratitude IS a beautiful hiiman attribute
when raw and unadulterated, and we are proud to
state the case cf a man named Jones who is
flourishing in Ballarat (Vic ) in the bosom of
another man’s family. Some months back Jones
went to Ballarat in a lot of old clothes and a
broken hat, also some leaky boots and bad health,
and he had a hollow cough and a perished, woe-
worn semblance. He was looking for work and
finding it not, and was on the point of falling
down a mine to save the price of a packet of
“ Rough on Rats,” when a good Samaritan took
him by the hand, and led him home, and gave him
a bath and a beer, and decked him off and fas-
tened him up at his own expense. In due time
Mr. Jones secured a good billet, and a silk hat,
and a white waistcoat, and a gold chain, and
many other items of Freetrade respectability, and
then he remembered his friend in adversity, and
promptly took over the latter’s young wife and
family, too, as some slight acknowledgment of his
deep and lasting indebtedness, and he told the
good Samaritan to go to Bourke, or Cooktown, or
Hades, and have a rest; and the husband got up
in a dazed condition, and departed for another
point of the compass where he could hide away in
a cool, quiet place and think. Since the Bal-
larat Star gave publicity to this case, quits a
number of local Benedicts have been seen wan
dering about eagerly seeking dusty deadbeats who
are a weary and travel-stained and contemplating
suicide.
• •
One of the candidates for a certain N.S.W.
constituency at the present election has a sister
who quite recently married a Chinese cook. He had
a highly unpleasant quarter of an hour when
he visits the locality where his Mongolian
brother-in-law resides, for the boys trotted his
almond eyed relative out and asked the intending
M.P. what his views on the Chinese question
were ?
* * •
That very laudable Sydney institution,
the Hospital for Sick Children, is managed by a
committee of ladies assisted by three gentlemen.
At the annual election a few days ago three
bachelors—Doctor “Lucy” Wilkinson, Mr. G. H.
Reid, M, L A , and Mr. C. Griffiths—were chosen
to assist the other ladies in their charitable work.
Dear, dear ! What ducks of men we shall have
in Parliament when the women get votes !
• * •
In Sydney Police Court. Haggard-looking
witness being examined by a lawyer. Lawyer :
“So you say that when you first met your wife
she was a widow?” Witness: “She was.”
Lawyer : “And than you married her ?’’ Witness ;
“I did. I married the whole family— four chil-
dren and a dog.”
m * *
We eat opposite a newly-returned Foreign-
trade member at lunch the other day. “ What do
yon drink, sir ? ’ enquired the waiter. “ Hi’ll
’ava arf a pint of Hmglish atf and arf,” replied
the statesman.
* • *
Mr. Waddell aaya he would not tax planoa
and musical instruments, as he coneilers the good
done by them to be very great. From this we
presume that Mr. Waddell is an undertaker who
owes rows of suburban terraces.
• • •
How to Kiss.— By One who Knows —Let
the arm go about—not her neck, as that may
wrinkle a pretty piece of lace —but about her
shoulders. Take the chin in the right hand, al
lowing the three fingers to touch the pretty white
throat, holding the face with the thumb and fore
finger, which will form a sort of vice for love’s
conquest. Move her head to one side and just a
little bit backward, and, approaching so as to
make the quartette of lips describe the diameter
of an imaginary square, kiss her bwiie —the second
double the length of its short predecessor.— Hawk.
* * •
Doar Bulletin,— The church of to-day
makes the boast that it “keeps pace with the
times.” Alas, poor Times ! Here in Daylesford
the boast is true; the church having borrowed an
idea from “ Dear old England.” When a seat-
holder falls into arrears, they evict him for non-
payment of pew-rent; and these evictions are as
cruel as ‘ 1 mother church ” knows how to make
them. Here is an illustration : Some years ago a
miner in this town had a run of luck, and, being
a “ good Methodist,” gave a tithe of his money to
the church. At length he fell into poverty, and
ultimately died, leaving his wife and family un
provided for. Hew did the church which he hac
helped to enrich act? Assist the distressed
family? Not a bit of it; it turned th s poor
widow out of the family pew, and she now sits in
the free seats. The Presbyterians act a little
better ; they simply erase the names of the de-
faulting seat-holders from the pews, as a gentle
hint that their money and not their presence is
required by Holy Church. No doubt there will
be reserved chairs in Heaven for those who can
afford to pay for them; and those who have no
cash will take back seats, wear crowns with less
diamonds, and play on harps which were made by
inferior makers— by Chinese cheap labour, per-
haps.—Yours, A Miner.
• • ' •
A nice marriage often ends In a nisi.
• * *
Professor Huxley has published an article
In the Pall Mall Budget entitled “ Spiritualism
Unmasked,” in denial of a statement by a Chicago
paper that he was disposed to judge Spiritualism
favourably. He explains the “ pencil and alpha-
bet” trick, and details how he can produce “raps”
by banding the second toe of each foot and sud-
denly straightening them For this feat, thin
socks, with hard-soled, roomy, kid boobs, much
Practice, and a worn carpet are necessary. A
Dublin Castle aide de camp also “ gets there ” by
“ slipping a tendon ” behind the outer ankle.
* * *
The correspondent of an English paper
relates that he recently saw a Queensland Bishop
walk down fion the public-house where he had
put up for the night, to the steamer which was to
convey him to his dioiese. The prelate was duly
arrayed in apron and gaiters, and was carrying
one end of his episcopal portmanteau, the other
being supported by a “gin,” whose c’othiug was
almost as scanty as that of her Mother Eve before
fig-leaves came into fashion. And the worthy
bishop was not one bit ashamed !
• *
Beef from bullocks bred by Queen Vic-
toria sold in London lately at half-a crown a
Pound. Apropos, it will be remembered that a
pot of jam which had belonged to Lady,Caring-
ton was sold for almost its weight in silver at the
Sydney Women’s Industrial Exhibition. In
Hingland they can be loyal over rump-steak, but
in the kawlinies, though we cannot gush over
royal butcher’s meat we can drivel over a vice-
regal jam-pot.
« # •
M. Oscar Comettant, an Impulsive French-
man who was recently in our midst, has supplied
the Paris Temps with a glowing description of
Melbourne in its social and “monumental”
aspects. Oscar is only a little more inaccurate
than the average distinguished visitor armed with
a note book. He says “there are three theatres
in Melbourne ” (being the correct number within
two), and he “cods” his countrymen with the
statement that “ there are also hotels of a religious
stamp which banish from their tables wine, beer,
liquors, and allow only temperance drinks, such
as tea, coffee, lemonade, and sarsaparilla. Some,
deceiving the vigilance of the temperance hotels,
pour whisky into their tea.” Evidently Oscar is
a wag, or else he has formed honest ideas of the
inner working of Melbourne coffee palaces from
information supplied by Jemmie Munro
and Balfour, the high priests of those in-
stitutions. The Grand was the chief re-
ligious hotel when Oicar visited the Mar-
vellous City, and there you may, if you are
not devoid of self-confidence, plank your whisky
bottle on the table and put your lips to it
when so dispoged. The vigilance of which he
prattles is confined to the instant slinging out
of “ drunks,” but in a’l other respects the
Grand, though they sell no liquor there, is
ai easy-going sort of pub. The Bulletin
m ist write to the Temps, and let France learn the
“THINGS WE SEE.”
THE ABOVE CREATURE (offspring of absentee colonist, out on a visit to the “ Kawlinies"):
“HAVE YOU EYAH NOTICED. BAI JOVE, THE HAWID TWANG WITH
WHICH THESE AUSTWALIANS TAWK? WELL, IT’S NOT ENGLISH,
YOU KNOW, BAI JOVE!”
whole truth about that tea, coffee, lemonade, and
sarsaparilla.
* # •
Another little bit of evidence tending to
show that Mr, and Mrs Lome intend inflating
themselves noon N S.W. with a view of
strengthening ths bonds, &c.” :
The P.incssi Lou’s? has been made an honorary
member of the Anglo-Australian Artists’ Society, the
members of intend to send to Sydney a collection
of 300 pictures for exhibition.
•
lo has recently been ruled in New Zealand
that doctors must detail in their bills, each
attendance, and each bolus, plaster, and draught
supplied, just as any common butcher recounts
the chops and lamb flies furnished. This don’t
affect N. /. lawyers; they already give details in
their bills £. s. & d tails.
• U •
A coroner’s jury at Port Augusta (S.A )
the other day returned a verdict that deceased
(an Indian named Miscari) committed suicide
under the influence of temporary insanity and
nobody was to blame. This is satisfactory. Mis-
cati was a single man, evidently.
Marvellous Melbourne has produced a 15-
year-old boy who successfully forged 20 signatures
and was nearly netting £6OO, If we were the
father of that lad how proud we would be of him !
• # «
The disgraceful spectacle of an iterated-
water-bottler who hsd wearied of his young bride
provoked two unpaid Melbourne beaks into
making statements they were probably called upon
to explain when they reached the bosoms of their
families. The first old fossil wagged his 1 hoary
head at the inuxorious bottler, observing that “he
had been married for 53 years, and never had had
a disagreement with his wife.” This solemn
affirmation had scarcely been taken down by the
reporters when another ancient relic declared that
“he had been married for 42 years, which had
been years of unbroken felicity.” Next morning
two grey-haired ladies brandished copies of the
Agb at two repentant justices of Her Majesty’s
peacs, and wanted to know what “ disagreement ”
meant in the dictionary, and whether “felicity”
was the same as flatirons. Then it slowly dawned
upon those venerable archangels that they had
forgotten (between them) 3713 occasions upon
which they declined to nurse the baby, 1612 times
when they wouldn’t take in the milk although
poor Mary’s head was aching fit to split, and 411
expressions of regret that they were such derned
young fools as to get married at all. The gray-
haired ladies recollected all these things, however.
They had preserved them fresh in their womanly
hearts while these pattern beaks, mellowed by
years and prosperity, had gradually fallen into a
habit of thanking Providence that they were
never as other men are.
* * *
The Auckland (N.Z.) Herald says that
on the occasion of Mr. M. D. Dalgeish’s marriage
he was presented with a useful article of furni-
ture, Now, what could it have been ?
• * *
A well-known Melbourne financier an-
nounces the decease of his infant daughter, “aged
two and a half days.” Taat’s going into figures if
you like. But GO xGOx 60 gives the little one’s
brief span of existence in seconds.
* » *
The Town and Country Journal la
breaking out in a fresh place. This time it is in
the correspondence and hash column :
Young Wife (Sydney)—Here is a recipe for a delicious
pea soup; TakeS'b. or ff.b. of beef trimmings (uncooked)
which have been accumulated during the week ; and pub
into a tureen with fl?e pints of cold water, accompanied
by a go od big bunch of sweet herbs, a few whole carrots,
turnips, artichokes, odds and ends of celery, one onion,
one leek, also soma whole spices, rid and black peppers,
knots of ginger and cloves, and salt Let the
whole simmer slowly— 11 for hours, and hours, and hours”
—the longer the better. Strain it clear, after skimming
off all fat; and mix into it very ennothly Goz or 8 r/„ of
desiccated soup. Then let it boil very slowly for one
hour, stirring occasionally ; and sand it to the table with
some fingers of dry toast.
A nice recipe, truly, for hot weather ! We won-
der if Alfred Bennett eats this kind of thing at
the Reform Club ?
• • *
Governor Loch, or Sir James Maoßdn,
whichever of them pulled the strings of the Ex-
hibition shutting-up mockery, “ got left,” as at the
grand opening shivoo. Invitations cards stated
“.levee or academical costume or uniform will be
de rigueur.’’ The mandate evidently fell on
stony ground, because most of the ceremony was
dressed in the togs of every day life, and the
only individuals who sported de rigueur were
those who are paid, directly or indirectly, to make
objects of themselves on these Guy Fawkes
occasions. They said “Amen ”to Macßain’s-silly
old prayer and endeavoured to look as though the
Exhibition was actually closed when it wasn’t
closed at all. But Providence saw a lot of people
paying their shillings at the turnstiles, and came
to the conclusion that the whole concern was too
thin entirely. We don’t believe Maoßain’s prayer
got there.
• * *
The Centennial Exhibition commissioners
concluded their official grovel with an address to
Sir Henry Loch, in which they described them-
selves, at every second line, as “your commis-
sioners,” Their obliging Mokanna also took up
the parable by expressing much gratitude to “my
commissioners,” and in the face of these personal
pronouns it seems necessary to re-affirm a recent
decision of the Melbourne Supreme Court that
Loch is merely a gorgeous nonentity, exercising
no actual control over any public matter save a
screw of £lO,OOO a year and extras. But as the
whole duty of officialdom is to give an air of reality
to some gilded fiction or other, there are no State
reasons why several men in heathen rig should not
prevaricate to another man in a cocked hat, and a
piece of tommy nonsense, more or less, makes no
difference whatever.
El Dorado, 1887.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Westward, Westward, and West again,
Leagues on leagues of saltbush plain !
Flooded creek and shining lake
Edged with green for the Spring’s sweet sake.
How the leaders strain and swerve
On that last, long, dusty, upland curve !
Steady the staunch old wheelers work
Tarough the sand-hills toil and the quartz tracks
jerk.
Last the lights of the distant town,
And the breath of toil on the hot breeze blown,
Flare of the furnace—to eager eyes
Welcome as glimpses of Paradise,
For youth’s quick bio ad through our pulses flew
As the City of Silver lay full in view.
Under the space of a few short years,
Where was it all, with its hopes and fears ?
Flapped the turkey across the plain
Where the gray grass yearned for the freshening
rain,
And the dim box-forests echoed not
Save the distant sound of a rifle-shot;
While ever an age-long silence kept
Watch o’er the graves where the millions slept.
Then the whisper of riches beyond a dream 1
See the lonely hills with the camp fires gleam,
Hear the creaking wheels of the gathering band
Who toil and moil in the thirsty land.
Till, quicker than birth of fabled Rome,
Spring cottage and chimney, and spire and dome,
Shriek of steam in the midnight hush,
Hot skies red with the furnace blush,
Flash of wires to the distant town
Where cheeks grow pale and foreheads frown,
And a man’s heart chills or wildly strains
To the delicate pulse of the silver veins.
Under the apace of a few years more,
What of the City of Silver Ore ?
Shall it stand in its pride as a city still,
Or the waste howl again round the magic hill
With a wave of graves on its seamed side
As the sad high-mark of the human tide,
And the wind of the night make ever moan
In the caves whence the silver sprite has flown ?
City of Silver and Sorrow and Sin,
What is the web that the Sisters spin ?
Newcastle, N.S.W.
W. K. M.


Something New in Sewing Machine*.
THE
BALE PATENT MACHINE.
WHAT IS THEBE SPECIAL ABOUT IT.
THE restless march of invention has enabled
us to bring before the public improvements
of immense value, to some short account of which
we beg your attention for a few moments. Our
calling is to relieve the home-mother of all that
may weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout, a pleasure. That we have during the
last seven years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
or the truth of which assertions, as of the follow-
ng, we humbly request that your own eyes may
be the judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTON
HOLE MACHINE in one. There is no other in
this market. There is no other in this world.
The “Button Hole Appliances,” so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine f
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALE PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
as the Family Machine, but is expressly con-
structed and fitted to make Button Holes in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
a most wonderful actuating mechanism in the
head. All this is the subject of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by ns for the sum
of £7500, The whole cost of the Machine, extra ,
to the public is, cash, eighteen shillings. We
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
fu Embroidery; a herring-bone stitch for blankets
woollens, or other materials ; you may do over,
casting or top-sewing—never before possible with
Sewing Machines —as fast as you can feed the
work. And, above all, you can make single barred
or double barred button holes and eyelet holes
with the most marvellous precision and perfection.
Herein, the fingers of the practised seamstress
cannot with the greatest expenditure of time and
abour, "produce work of similar quality. And
remember, the Machine-made button hole, in
addition to its beauty, is inherently far superior,
for each stitch is Locked. Button holes which
ought to embellish a garment, are often only a
disfigurement. Look at our samples and judge
the effect of fine work for yourself. By all means
have good work instead of bad, especially when
you can make six perfect Button Holes while you
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand.
Get a BEALE MACHINE, practise it —we will
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like,
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the rising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn freely to pass underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonder-
ful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all
clicking sounds having been obviated. As is well
known, a good test of the finish of any mechanism
Is its silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement,
NICKEL PLATING. —In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones. Heightening the appearance,
these improvements also tend largely to preserve
the parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
the place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance
of former years. When closed it securely fastens
the cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
The BOBBIN-WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
■topping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
We have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. No, the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing,
marine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
f
481, 484, MTD 486 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY
“ All thb Ykab Round.”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
See Sydney Bulmtin, January 19, 1889.
No. 1 on the
Newmarket Handicap
Bun at Melbourne, March 2, 1889.
Subscribers at £1 Each.
First Horse £4000
Second Horse £1500
Third Horse £1000
Starters, £1500; Non-starters, £2000
(bo be divided amongst them).
10,00
10,000
10,00
10,00
AUSTRALIAN CUP,
Bun at Melbourne, March 6, 1889.
Subscribers at £1 Each.
First Horse £4000
Second Horse £1500
Third Horse £1000
Starters, £1500; Non-starters, £2000
(to be divided amongst them).
Adu Belt's is the onh fair method of drama;.
On both these events, 3 per cent, of the gross amount
of the sweep will be devoted to charitable objects.
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bsdb until after the races have been run.
Subscribers are particularly requested to re-
gister their letters to ensure safe delivery, and
r must enclose stamps for reply and result.
Address
“ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Next Event (£10,000>-SYDNEY GOLD CUP,
Run on APRIL 22, 1889.
Western Australia.
THE COMING COLONY!
Non- is your time to invest in land in this grand
colony, which must advance rapidly in every re-
spect, and when the purchase of lands must result
in enormous profits.
llememher the Fortunes made by the early pur-
chasers of Sydney and Melbourne lands, and a\a : l
yourself of a like opportunity.
Send at once for printed pamphlet of latett deve-
lopments in Wastern Australia; a’so for litho-
graphs and full particulars of our subdivisions for
private sale at mm*m j miius Estates, in
Allotments fiftiii 6 111 uuBAWi
Blocks to suits all buyers at reasor able prices and
on easy terms.
T. TATE” & CO.,
Western Australian Land Agents,
158 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JUST PUBLISHED
" kmtiois of at Australian Surgeon,”
SAMUEL. T. KNAGGS, M.D.
Mind Reading-examined,- ...
Spiritualism exposed ,
Phrenology criticised,
Tea Poisoning demonstrated,
’ Eminent Doctors reviewed!
Public Health, the Medical Profession send
Registration of Deaths in New South Wales.
I - J - -y ' ■ V ' T
W. M. MACLARDY,
Printkb and Publishes,
319 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
And all Bookskllebs and Bookstalls.
A r 8. GAS. ' GAB.
I'rotecb yourselves against explosion , leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION
' No. 110 Elisabeth Street, Sj dney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Offiet i Hours : 9 to 5, and 9 to I on Saturdays.
The lady wbo personated Lady Godlva at
the Queen’s Jubilee celebration at'Coventry, has
just been “jogged ” for 14 days for throwing a
brickbat at a neighbour. We always felt that
there was F«nnething morally under mining about
that Jubike. | y
PERFECT HEALTH I
Secured by drinking, reliable Old 'Wines from
Hookings. 410 George street, near King Street.
Write lor Plan of £10 Lots, Perth, Western
Australia. The Intbbcolonial Inwatmbnt Co.,
Bathonrt-otreet, Sydney.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers,
Batho’s Baking Fowdara,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
&o*| &Qa
Steam Works and Brewery:
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO, SIDNEY
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
Q/A IB T Y THEATRE.
THE MOST STIRRING DEMONSTRA-
TIONS EVER WITNESSED within a Sydney
theatre have signalised the advent to Australia
of the VERY MOST REMARKABLE
COMPANY that has ever entered this hemis-
phere. Messrs. Hiscocks and MacMahon promised
the Sydney public a surprise in the appearance of
THE GAYLORD-SILBON TROUPE.
How that promise has been fulfilled the Sydney
public are now aware. Each night a crowded
audience has witnessed this extraordinary per-
formance. THE SUCCESS OP THE SILBONS
IS COMPLETE, revolutionary of all pre con-
ceived ideas, and sensational.
PRICES — 4 s t 3s » % s i
Jce F. MacMahon, Business Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
EVERY NIGHT at 8,
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT COMEDY
COMPANY in Pinero’s Sparkling Comedy,
THE MAGISTR ATE
the magistrate,
with nearly the whole of the original Australian
cast.
ADMISSION— Ss., 3s, 2s , and Is.
Box Office open daily at NichoLon’a Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr, JOE DAVIS.
A L.
Theatre roy
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee: Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman.
Immense Success of
Mb. CHARLES WARNER,
supported by a
Most Powerful Dramatic and Comedy Organisa-
i ion in
“DORA” and “THE BARRISTER.”
Prices as usual. Tickets ft r all parts at Maokay’s.
B
O N D I AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skatirg Rink
Free to Visitor?.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 45 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Tram ruts bo Gates—far?, 41.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison.
Doors open 7; Commence 8. Carriages 10,45.
Tremendous Success of
Thb Gband Ohbistmas Pboddotion,
YOUTH YOUTH. YOUTH. YOUTH.
PRICES, 65., Ss., is.. Is,
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to B.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manaqbb.
XT ® w OPERA HOUSE.
J3I Leasee... ltalian Artists’ Opera Co
(Represented by Signor Giovanni Ventur ).
Conductor —Monsieur LEON CARON.
TO NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
Bizet’s world-renowned Opera, in 4 Acts,
“CARMEN.”
SATURDAY. 16bh January,
“IL TROVATORE.”
Prices : Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls, 3s; Parquette,
2s Box Plan at Palicg and Co.’s.
OARL KAHLER-
The Remarkable Rice Picture,
THE DERBY DAY,
THE DERBY DAY,
THE DERBY DAY,
CARL KAHLER.
On View Daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Large
Room of
BEALE’S BUILDINGS,
484 George Street.
THE WHITE TERRACES,
THE WHITE TERRACES.
THE WHITE TERRACES,
And other works by the same Artist also on view.
Admission ... ONE SHILLING.
JJBWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory!
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS!
-T
'VL
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
|ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
Bitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
n.nd gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas. If required. Ss. Bd. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &o. Newton ft Lamb.
ŧ
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl.
one sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided Into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
a
Drawing room oabi
NBTS.
imi iMun
ORirrißDUi Dbbibbn.
Nawfon ft Lamb,
PIANOFOR iES by R. LIPP ard SOHN
CARL RONISOH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
t
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Vbbt OomplkTi
Assobtmknt.
Many quite new dealgna.
Nbwton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered bo order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
OCRING EASY CH aIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
ţ
T> KDBTKADS, all Bites.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Braes. Great variety.
Bedding.—All description!
at lowest rates.
Nbwtoh ft Lamb,
ť
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 11s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from
ISs. 6d. j Dining Tables, from 30s. j Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12a. 6d.|
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Side*
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.|
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
WTON AND LAMB.
furniture and pianoforte
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
■■OW Room AMD MAM!!* AOffOMV I
IFBTPG • O'OOVVRLB STRUTS'


Precncipal Grant, of Canada, thinks Aus-
tralia should protest against the refusal of the
United States to renew the Extradition Treaty ,
with England. Australia will do nothing of the
kind. She is not gffirg to help Salisbu-y to
cceice the Irish. j
Rumour asserts that a Queensland Min-
ister recently ran a considerable risk of having h's
ear shifted in his own office. He was being inter-
viewed by a country deputation, which wanted
something very badly, ard as he seemed very j
apathetic, a hitherto silent member of the party
suddenly stood up and cffered to move the great
man’s listener. This conduct has caused conside-
rable excitement in well-informed circles, and a
4 ‘ mioit ” will probably be issued setting forth that
Ministers’ ears are not to be shifted by any local
amateur.
With reference to the fall of Cjld-
pie Blake, in re Queensland, the corres-
pondent of an English paper writes :—“ Poor
Terence M'Grath, how his countrymen are
avenged ! I am charmed at his discomfiture.
Have you read his book ? I mean 4 Pictures from
Ireland.’ by Terence M’Grath. I have, and have
cordially detested the writer ever since. He
seems to find not one good thing to say cf his
countrymen. Priests and people are all tarred
with the same brush of ignorance, rapacity, and
wickedness, unrelieved by a single redeeming
virtue.”
Uniform a specialty; quality, lit and comfort. llnd'.
man. "UTliiwi " 1M Klny Btrop* Ntwtn»
Bona fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
given for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
Dress suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS,, HI
Russeil-street Melbourne.
CAUTION.
LOOK ODT Fol{ FRAUDS.
Owing to the success of Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters in curing all
diseases of the Liver, Stomach
Bowels, Blood, Kidneys and XJrinary
Organs, Nervousness, Sleeplessness,
and Female Complaints, so that it
has become a standard household
remedy all over the world, and the
immense demand for the original
and genuine article, certain persons
are offering for sale various cheap
and spurious preparations under the
name of “Hop Bitters” which do
not contain the medicinal properties
found only in Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.
Take none of the cheap bogus stuff
simply because it is called “Hop
Bitters.”
Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitter* nre the
.Purest and Bent Bitter* ever made.
They are compounded from Bop*, Biichu, Man-
drake, and Dandelion— the oldest, best, and most
valuable medicines in the world, and contain all the
be*t and most curative properties of all other Bitter*,
being the greatest Blood Purifier, I.iver Regu-
lator, and Life and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
No disease or ill health can possibly long exist where
these Bitters are used, so varied and perfect are their
operations.
They give new life and vigor to the aged and in-
nrm. To all whose employments cause irregularity
of the bowels or urinary organs, or who require an
appetizer, tonic, or mild stimulant, these Bitters are
invaluable, being highly curative, tonic and stimulat-
ing, without intoxicating.
£5OO (Five hundred pounds) will be paid
for any case that Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters will not cure or help.
See that each bottle bears genuine
label bunch of green hops on white
paper with black letters.
IVone other genuine. Take no other.
UST PUBLISHED.
History of Botany Bay,
Bt Abthbb Gath,
nomiliv IKKIIIBITIB «
BT
Thb Bbubtih’b well-known Artists,
Hopkins and Phil. May.
Pbiob - ONE SHILLING.
TRUTHS.
REMEMBER
"THB BULLETIN’S"
Pn Peal, is. Bd. (except Queensland).
HI ifiEXTI,
GOOD BUSINESS OFFER.
£2O » £4O
per month Beady Money.
No capital required. Special
inducements. Pleasant and healthy occupation.
LOCAL AGENTS WANTED.
Full particulars,
R. B. JONES,
6 Beidge Street, SYDNEY.
KEN ONLY
Sufferers from Nervous Com-
’plaints, Sure Cure, 14 days.
Apply in
confidence to MEDICUS, Box 120 G.P.0.,
Personal advice by appointment, Free.
ŧ
Weak Back, Pain and Weak-
ness across the Kidneys, Shooting
Pains through tire Loins, Lack of
Strength and Activity, instantly re-
lieved and speedily cured by the new
process. Apply by letter, Box 1081,
G.P.0,, Sydney.
hIm MT o T *. ,LOR '” 164 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
• Suite to measure for £3 Be.
h
a
H-
M
M
s
T
o
!UL
T
yUimrs,
DTO SSA I PHILLIPS
*3»«5 Barrack Street.
R
EAD, MARK, LEARN.
‘ Far-seeing men who know somewhat of the
wonderful development of the Eastern Colonies
during the last few years will tell you that ere
long Western Australia will be one of the
wealthiest of Australian colonies.
Everyone should send for a Flan of the
PADDINGTON ESTATE, PERTH,
Westbbn Austbalia, close to the City.
Good Land. Well situated.
LARGE LOTS ONLY £lO BACH.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms, or Discount for
Cash.
BEST ALLOTMENTS ARB SELLING
RAPIDLY.
| They Cannot be Replaced at the Pbiob.
Good Building Sites on the Paddington Estate
are now obtainable at ridiculously low prices, but
now that Responsible Government has been
granted to the colony and the coal and gold mines
are proved to be extensive and rich, Western
Australia will forge ahead rapidly, and property,
especially in and around the Capital City, will
greatly increase in value.
THERE IS NO TIME LIKE THE PRESENT.
BUY BEFORE THE SURELY COMING
BOOM.
Marked plans, pamphlets, &0., posted to any
address on application to the-
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO., Ltd.,
96 Bathuest Stbeet, Sydney,
W, J, DOUGLAS, Manager.
“ AUSTRALIA FOB THE AUSTRALIANS,”
By
A. B. PATERSON.
EVERY Australian should read the new
Pamphlet just published under the above
tittle. Land Reform and Protection. Read it
before recording your vote.
Price, 6d. All News Agents, i
JOHiN LAWLER & SONS.
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS. UPHOL
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets
Floor-clotbs, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains!
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplate d Ware
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7id. per lb. (free
from seed), Cafe Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30.?. to 50j., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters, Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frlll-
mgs, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER’S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Write for
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address - LAWLER, SYDNEY.
I. LAWLER~& SONS,
Gekebal Impobtees and House Fubnishebs
SYDNEY.
Established 1880.
RTHUR D. SPALDING,
HOMIEOPATH, ALLOPATH.
HERBALIST,
35 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET)
I have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and wcmer
without the aid of nauseous drugs so perniciors to
the system and so objectionable to the palate. ]
will guarantee a
COMPLETE CURE IN A FEW DAYS,
or will refund the money. Now what can ’
fairer for both parties ?
The time is over when, it was necessary
to ute substances naueems, such as Copaiba
and Cubobs, by which so many evils were
caused. The diseases alluded to above are, as any
eane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (as I will prove) be cured by local treat
ment, without the use of any Caustic, Styptic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &c,
I will not make you call constantly so as to pay
several fees. My terms are One Charge Only, or
NO CURE NO PAY.
Up country residents treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
communications treated as strictly confidential.
Private Consulting Rooms and Laboratory
35 BLIGH STREET. *
Hours 10 to 12; 2to 4, and 7to 9 p.m.
REED’S “MAGIC ME A L,”
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
Stock and Poultry.
t —
Extracts from Testimonials :—
O. S. Yw, E*q., Mulcrave Stud Farm, near Windsor :
‘I tried the ‘Magic Meal’ on a horse bad with worms
and be seems to be improving fast.”
Mr. H Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon: “
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my oows, at
the same lime k eping them in good ondition.”
- Robt. A. Hill, Esq., Butteibone, Macquarie River: “I
tried the • Magic Meal' cn a horse which would not fatten,
and now he is in grand condition. ... I consider it
of especial value, as it saves horse eed.”
Sold in Bags — 7lbs. 3s , Ijlbs. ss. 6d , 56lbs.
18s. 6d , and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561bs , Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Oastlerbagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Joes Rutheefore.
(Late of Say well's Tobacco CoJ,
Wholesale and Retail
TOBACCONIST,
532 George Street
(Opposite TOWN HALL),
SYDNEY.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
A For Constipation, Indigestion
to
Stomach & Liver Complaints
O- ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
t
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE. —For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent T able Water.
OF ALL CHEMIST? IN AUSTRALASIA.
JJROU’S INJECTION,
HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J . IT 3D R R H ,
(Successor toBrou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Peopbietob.
COMLEY’S HOTEL,
EMU PARK,
ROCKHAMPTON.
FRED. COMLEY, Proprietor.
Acknowledged the Finist hotel on
the Coast. Overlooking the Bay, with
every convenience. Dining Hall GO x 40.
Conveyance meets Eveby Tbain.
JMPERIAL HOTEL
EMU PABK,
William Loon ... Peopbietob.
This First-class Hotel, close to Beach, has every
accommodation. Shower and Plunge Bath. Good
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits onlV Stocked. WILLIAM LOON.
PRINCE OF WALE S’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street East.
This Well-known Sporting House is conducted
inFirst class Style. Every Convenience. Centrally
situated.
LONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
Toowoomba.
Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
Downs, First-class Accommodation, Private
Suites, First-class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
r eJ-
H O
S
~4V , ■;
BWOEhs
KS v•'
Hol[l
I 7
BOWDEN’S HOTEL
Elizabeth Street (near Hunter St), Sydney 7
JOSEPH c. BtmuEN . . Proprietor
ROONEY & Co.,
SAW-MILLERS,
linger Mtrchanls, id Eteam Joiwj,
TOWNSVILLE.
lARGEST STOCK of OREGON PINE and
J Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &o , in
Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a speciality.
Country &• S’ation Orders promptly despatched,
GBD. GBD. GBdT
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
G.B.D. PIPES
Tho Bast In tha World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS j
Mis Will I Co.
23 x CLARENCE STREET
■VTATIONAL PROTECTIN ASSOCIATION
-Li Orient Chambers, Hunter Street,
Sydney, sth February, 1889.
NOTICE.
That when in any case the Committee has de-
cided to request any Protectionist candidate to
withdraw on the ground that he is endangering a
seat by competing with a full number of other Pro-
tectionist candidates adopted by the Committee
after conference with the local Protectionist bodies
and such candidate has refused to accede to the re-
quest of the Committee, it shall be published in the
newspapers circulating in the electorate, and by
other means if necessary, that such refractory candi-
date is a rebel against discipline, and is not to be
supported by Prot-ctionists ; and that further a
Black List be started to contain the names of such
mutineers, who shall be rendered ineligible as
candidates for any seat in future. The committee
earnestly advise all electors not to throw away
votes on such candidates.
N. MELVILLE
E, W. O’SULLIVAN
T. S. PARROTT
O. B. LOWE
D. GRAHAM
Joint Hon. Sees,


.Business Announcements.
BARBERS’
SUPPLY
HOUSE.
L
Hairdressers
ABOUI
COMMENCING BUSINESS,
AS WILL AS THOSI
Already Established,
WILL FIND AS
CRAIG & AITKEN’S
NEW SOUTH WALES
Barbers' Supply
HOUSE,
SHAMPOOING APPARATUS,
Mean and Colonial Mossing Chairs,
SCISSORS, COMBS, BRUSHES,
Mirrors, Hot Water Urns,
Mg' ITEBI REQUISITE "Ml
A 1 0
fHICES WHICH DEFT COMPEIIIIOHI
Agents for the Celebrated
‘PLUM’
BRAND Of
Razors & Scissors.
COMPLETE
Saloon Outfit
nou
£lO UPWARDS.
ASSISTANTS ENGAGED
FOB
Town and Country Customer*.
Noti Addbim—
Craig k Aitken,
New South Wales
*
Barbers' Supply
HOUSE,
682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Pkiob List Posted on Appuo\tion.
Tom Garrett Bays he has never broken a
pledge. Tom has taken it once or twice.
Snlcidlng is Increasing at such an enormous
rate that a careful calculation shows the human
race wiped out in 2000 years.
The second of February was the second
day of the second month of the second year of
Australia’s second centenary.
Pbarls in thb Mouth.— White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pbarl Dbntifricb. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists.*
Old Port, Olaret, Hook, Sherry, Rouelllen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, fro. Unequalled Hlgh-olaee Winn are
only to be had from Bookings of 410 Qeorg e-etreet, under
Marshall, chemist, near Elng.street.*
E. C. ELEY
S'
o
<<
5bV
s
#
9)
Qt
A
ft
£
&
O
v
0
■&
\V
o
9
o
v
r\
£
Q>
$
*
*
o
V
&
o
5$
V*
o
<b
V
ţ
ť
390a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY,
Of the entire 50,000 copies constituting
the ninth edition of the Encyclopedia Beitan-
NtcA, no less than 40,000 went to America.
The Bulletin objects to the Saltan of
Turkey being called the Sublime Porte. There is
only one sublime port—Our Beautiful Harbour.
The Maoris of the Upper Wanganui
(N.Z.) have successfully embarked in the wool-
growing industry. Their last season’s crop sold
at from 7d, to 7i<l per lb.
William's Australian Inseotloid Is death to all taints.
Simple In application—sure In effect. Ihls Is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of Insects, while It Is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 557 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs llllett Bros.,
and I. Prosser & Co *
£20
£20
BFCKBOABD BMGIES
Regular shipments of the Best Buokboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 x 16 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Bnckboards with pole,
&o., £27. F.O.B. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash ; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
RITTENBBRQ & OO,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Oiabbnob Street, Wtntabd Square,
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 70G, Sydney.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
■O. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce,
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
Tcnes’ SeTxrir3.gr s.
FA&LEIGH, NEITEEIM & Co,, Tanners and Leather Merchants,
16 Y 0 R K STRE E T, SYDN E Y.
——i Bole Agents (or the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
0 —i
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all Details. Including Machinery,
Imported Leathers; &o.i and of the following Special Lines ; PEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH,
NUBIAN BLACKING. Tnaaevt Toolr and Mitcvials, ladeats executed os Favourable Term*
AND PAY
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms,
TOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence,
DR. RICHARDS.
OM
RO
NSU.LT
ICO
RICHARDS
B«
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably,
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education In the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a Ufa-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
Ee has by profound research thoroughly invest!-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
Insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be oradl-
oated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hli
patients, he baa during bis practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deservsd
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MSN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment In the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, Irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, baahfulnoss,
di soon tentedness, weakness or pains In the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, Impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness In society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to In-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of Bd. In
stamps he will send secure from observation in •
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private ot
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and pel-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well Its general Informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case hsi
been pronounced Incurable by bis medical at*
tenant.
ONI POUND 13 SUFFICIENT TO
SEND N
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NEK
YOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit dowa
quietly In your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
a'jd courteously, a candid and straightforward
ovlrilon of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
In the volume will be found a list of carefully?* B-
- questions, which will, In all propabilitTi
assist yon materially in describing your ali-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
•ironmstanoes. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fi* B >
and patients may rest assured that their oases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themsel* 8 *’
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 36,
eases since coming to Australia, and has permit-
■ion from at least 10,000 persons to show thsli
written evidence of his success. All eoKcmunl** -
Mow should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
f Spring Street, Sydney
cfl Pitt Street North).
Bt tun to mtntion this paptr when
VOB 9vL T if JOB fbmm;
A CHANCE FOR MANUFACTURERS.
Puck suggests a machine that ought to sell well among families with teething children.
It is neat, compact, and saves wearing out the carpet.


Badness Announcements.
BRFNTO IPS
KOYAL JPATBNT STEEL KOLLIH
FLOUR
@rs bfl obtaiaed throughout New South Wftlea«
Qaeeaslaad, »ad Yletoria,
SYDNEY hi hi im 84 Fin BIUH.
BEIBBANI... m m BDWAiD Snail.
MILBOUBN9 _ «, Bfbhobb Bbbsm.
EPPS'S
Grateful —Comforting
COCOA
Medfieai*
More than 70,000 Oases already Cored I
fhe Greatest Success V
ol Modern Times. /
CONSULT
/ All Chronio Disease
\ are Curable.
Hr. B, E. lIEEUM, Canltisi Eclectic!
Skillbd Spboialist for all Chromic Disbasbs,
10 niIMAH STREET, HEIBOIIMI.
Any sufferers unable to oall can write for a list of ques-
tions (prbb) by which they oan be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost lor a
complete cure. You oan then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands morel
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 18803
Is H. K. Kugblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
el Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1888, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
then pressed him for a true statement of nfy case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
Eectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
mgs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. Alter having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
Skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but alter this crisis I commenced to improve very tost.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I oan do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. B.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
«T All Consultations Free. H
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost Is incurred in the event of Ourr
MOT BUNG EFFBCTBD.
rpo SUFFERERS.
CONSULT FBRSONALLY OR BY LBTTBR
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
THEY Treat and Cure all Oheonio, Nervous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE.
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all oases.
S.B.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely packed, to ail parts of the Colonies.
Note the Address :
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary,
IBS Elisabeth Stmt, Bids Park, Sydney,
]tT ATRIMONY.—A Bachelor, 25 years, tall,
dark, good-looking, wishes to correspond
with a view to Matrimony. Has good home to
offer on first-class station in North Queensland.
Applicant must be ladylike, fair musician, affable
disposition, and under 30. Send photo.
Address X. Y.Z., Post Office, Hillgrove, Queens*
land.
f#r the Deaf*— Nicholson’s Patintbd Art
~OAL Bar Drums. Cures Deafness In all Its stages. Zhe
moB t astonishing cares have been effected. Send lor 188
Paged Illustrated book containing " Essay on Deafness,’
hstratlooß of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
I m Deoton. Lawyers, Editors, sis., whs havs bsse
bf Ihsss Drams, and whs tssemmsad thsss.— Dr.
«• William Unstf, We*heap a*.
GH3-A.3iT3D
r’ OOBNBB Of
KF* MART AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
f-
-39
tOSGROVi.
i
&
Id)
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D, COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel) M Pbopbiitbiss.
HAI : m OUT 6d s
At the POTOSI, the largest Hairdressing Saloon in the Colonies.
Nine First-Class Hajrcuttbrs. Cleanliness and Civility Guaranteed. *
-Is-
a,xicL -A.I'I’IKEIXT,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Yon will not be talked to death at the POTOSI as all the Hairdressers are dumb,
Faison’s t G-rape t
TRADB MARK—“THB QRBBNWIOH OBSBRVATORT."
Specially prepared from RIPE FRUIT, and it the best of all Fruit Salines,
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING.
A preventative ot Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
Propribtor I
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND.
Agents :
W. H. FLETCHER & 00., 3 QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
PARSON'S GRAPE SALINE.
aonvsjsNiadßd 5 ? vai
AUC
A V PCFRI
Jn of Imitations iff* THE > WORCESTERSHIRE
SAtyCE, which arefalciilated to deceive JheEublic,JLea and Perrins
have Jo request that Purchasers• see that tfieJLabel bottli
tlears''theirl§ignaiurt Jthus~ (" ;
* uithoufrwhicKTm : bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCEis 'genuine.
Ask for LEA and PER A’/A S' Saucer and see Name-on'Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. and for Export ( by the\ Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
_ Blackwell , London, (r'c.,&c.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
"Wlxat is 37-o-a.r JZlo’bTo^r
li
Most people have one o
some sort. If you don’t
happen to have one, or
If you have been Indulg-
ing In one which returns
but a poor satisfaction for
your outlay, get rid of It
as soon as possible. Better
be without than keep a
bad one. If you have a
taste for Art : If you
want a remunerative
hobby—try
Photography!
k
1
A
Instruments and Materials are not the costly toys they were. Anyone can learn It—every-
one can profit by It. The coat of every requisite for a beginner is so low it will surprise you
i :y
SATISFY YOURSELF BY A VISIT TO OUR
WHOLESALE., PHOTOGRAPHIC w* WAREHOUSES.
" “ -iG
LZCHT2TEB dc CO.,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
> AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street BRISBANE.
g - - ——— - ■ 4
end 2d, Stamp tor oui new Illuetrated Instruction Book and Catalogue, “THE AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHER.' I
Assurance Companies.
THB AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE.
MINX ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited,
(Inegsyisated by Aot ot Parliament, IV Til.,
NO. IB.)
Registered Capital w M M *1,111,111
Paid-up and Subscribed m m MI,HI
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, E. 0.8. Chairman,
ARTHUR BLAOEBT, Kiq„ F.1.A., Deputy.
Chairman,
This Company receives deposit! at the following
rates of Interest
For 8 years _ 7 pei cent,
for 8 months i per cent.
For 1 you B pet ml.
For I month! _ | per ml.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including Its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and npwardii
Loans granted on Mortgage lor fixed terms and
loans repayable by Instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOB BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, ete., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Oontraot.
Head Orris*—ll, A U HUNTEB STREET!
JNO. 0. NEILD, Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, llfl,
CAPITAL, e&N.HI,
Sydney Office,
Corner ol MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
Melbourne Offices—2B3 Collins Street East,
(next door to National Bank of Australia)
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Staeet.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay*
able by Instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted dally.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS i
S months, 5 per cent.
| •• 6 ••
M 7 ~
And a Bonus declared to Deposits ol II month
per cent. I months per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
By order ol the Board ol Directors,
BUSSELL MARSHALL. Manager.
BmsSncss Annannccnicnts*
KING’S V ( EWS
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLAN OAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&o, &0.,
31S 3EQR3G 51, Between Buter-st 1 IP 0.
TATTBRSALL'B
lOlim COVSULTATim
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars sec
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “Tabtersall's," care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to enjure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
W B
CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(from Faria)
Ladies' and Gentlemen's
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any la
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair,
NOTE THE ADDRESS —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial h»wHi
MELBOURNE.
FOB BALE.— Two grand Water Frontages.
Parramatta and Lane Cera Rivets. Apply,
Hliinir DO**,


ows
-EMBROCATION
SOLD
\E\/ERY n WHERE / ;1
m
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE. LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established Agencies In all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted In four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 63 Sydney Arcade.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Doloeeux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Fains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days !
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT ,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Beat and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
SSI George Street , Only .
JJIBBLE & COMPANY,
SI«N WBITEBS
AND
ART ++ DECORATOR B—
96 Castlereagh Street*
One Doob from King Street.
Grosvenor Hotel,
Qrosvenor Hotel Co., Limited,
CHVBCH Hill, BTDHET.
overlooking the Harbour.
(THIS Magnificbnt Hotil Is now open,
and will be conducted on the best
methods of similar American and Euro*
pean establishments.
It is centrally situated, Is built on the
most elevated site in Sydney, and the
salubrity o( its situation renders It
the Hotel par excellence (or Tourists,
Families, Foreign and Intercolonial
Visitors.
XsiiBGRAPH and Tblhpbohb Offiom
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO has been expended la
Furniture.
It is lit throughout with Eleotrlo
Light and Gas, and bas a Furnished
Suokh Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard Roof, which is
reached by an Otis Travelling Lift, and
from which are obtainable the Finest
Panoramic Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Orosvbnob Drag will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now invited.
I. BOW AH. Manager.
y
3-3?
(33
Telegraphic and other communications to be addressed to the Manager.
Perdriau Co.,
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURER 8,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valtbs, Wabhbbb, Gaskets Slo., &o. Moulded to any Size. Rubber goods lor all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
• •
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY Bt OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
ftowlaucb’
MaeaAdarOil
' .A - >n<l IKAAnHH«r A
i^?iS?BSSS, SSI3S
&nt cottidosml And wlilcli min th® health (TldA McdlcAl '• >f Vi&ir
KSSSSSssss
“““““•“golden colour,, --
510.. 6d.; «n<l double that «tze. 21».
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR u a healing an«t rafratfdng prap««Mon few
the face, hands and arm.: It eradicate* freckle*, tan, *unbnrn, ecitjna. radne**
of thT slrin plmple., CTtaneon. eruption., etc., and produce, a beautiful and dWlcata
«omplexlon.
ROWLANDS ODONTO vkHmth* tart*, praranti
■trengthen* the gum*, and glre* a delightful fragrance to the breath. A*k anywhere for
IOTUN Ofi’artlcle*. of »“ Hatton Garden, Ijondon, and arold .purlou* Invitation, under
nimil.
Wholesale and Retail Affenfc—Ktuorr Bbob., and B. Fbobbib & Oo M Sydney.
Bourke S t
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PASS
EVERT FEW MINUTES
PALACE HOTE
M
m
'vV«
B
a
m
m.
J.A.WILSON
PROPRIETOR
G.W.CLARE
manager |
The PALACE HOTEL, BOUKKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
is
i=r NOW OPEN, 'd
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Fixed Lavatory Basin, Hot and Cold Water, and Shampoo Spray.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious Modern Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies,
UT TWO PiSSEVGEK OTIS LIFTS. < «l
LADIES’ BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
Toms i i INGLE BESEOOM, 2s. U. per NIGHT
/ Entitling: the Occupier to the privilege of
I using the fuhiic Ko»ms of the Uotc.
<gr MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON 4 from Is. up to 3S»
full paHiL'iiUus as to the Taliff, &c,, may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
detrend-on Hotel, HGCa.2n.l3r.
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
I T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., ate
/\ served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
tinner, you can enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country)
lere also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can io? libly make one
lOmfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic arti imavided. Table
Ic Httt at 1 o’clock dally and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
rlaitora comfortable, and heir Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
LAUNCESTr J,
ir,
.
mm
• vr
. i> -' :
>.n i
w*
*ortp
V A ftft Iruxr '•
m
n.d
ft-p
1&2
iiMmii
i
punTO-tna. 11. » IMIW. MUIUHk
A. DELIUSE
Proprietor.
ZF’XXaST'- SOUSE,
Witst, hack Lissots & SiTuu tiwt i Swciiliti £• Sjwt, Ctiiiu ftuciiu.
®¥@
/^i\
h* wSSEKS?
MEW WARS TABLE SHOW ROOMS St FACTOR*.
SmLIARD CUSHIONS, &o. s MADE ON THE PREMISES.
@M Tabled re-fttted by @ur own men,,
®MS»,OUIS,IA£LB •took,*!!© <TBICKET 3 LAWN TENUIS ft SOW
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
I mite w Stmt, BWHKI. m.| U< Soto Squm, LOBKj;


Hotel*.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
melboubb.
OrrOfliTß Railway Terminus, Spencer Street.
YIBITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over IN rooms,
will find all modern Improvements, snch as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large pnbllc-
>oom, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
and needle baths passenger elevator, electric bells,
telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not to be
corpassed in Australia. Visitors can rely npon
being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box OSO. Dr,
Bpeer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.B. (for oenUnuatlon see New Zealand
Gazette, January Blst, 1886) also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th. 1868). The doctor has devoted U
years to the study of CHRONIC. NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Pour of these were In the leading
hospitals at the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
Mm will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
Me experimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure In every case he undertakes, or forfeit
BSOO. Hie reason for doing so Is this—when there Is no
Ciganio disease, and nothing bat an Inorganic trouble, or,
In other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there Is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes II distinctly understood that he does not claim
la perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly Informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
■FECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
Molding at a distance can, by explaining their troubles In
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
net In any way Interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges! moderate. H. J.
Brant, H.D., iS.Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Poet Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
IS a.m. to IS a.m. | Bto i and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
IB to 11 ».m. only.
||(fl
■ HmaC
PRIBOBIPTIOHB are to
be found In the "LIGHT AND
MFE,” for the Speedy Onre of NERVOUS DE-
BILITY and Kindred Diseases, fco. A copy of
this book will be sent Free, sealed, tor Biz Fenny
Stamps. Address—
a. WARD ft 00 ,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street Sydney.
MESMERIC, MAGNETIC, and electric
INSTITUTE, 177 Liverpool street (facing
Hyde Park), Sydney, tinder the sole management
ol Db. St. VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
Clairvoyant of 29 years’ practice In ,Europe and
America, and 4 years Medical Adviser for the
Awnwrinan Remedy Company. Alp Diseases
Cubed, chronic or otherwise, by a New Mode ol
Treatment peculiarly known to Dr. St. Vincent
only, his motto being : —“ Nature cures Nature’s
decay.” Cancers, Tumors, &c., painlessly and
positively cured, without cutting, in from three to
four days. Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides him-
self in being the only person known In the world
«rho will undertake to cure a Cancer of the
Tongue without Surgical Operations of ’any kind;
In fact, the Doctor guarantees to cure All Diseases
incidental to suffering humanity, even t when all
other treatment and advice has proved a failure.
Candid, the Doctor will undertake no case where
he cannot guarantee a complete cure. N.B.—
Where medicine is used, Dr. St. Vincent dis-
penses his own. This is a surety that you get
nothing but the genuine article. A‘ Fact. —This
Is the only Institution of Its kind In the World
srhere all Kinds of Cures are Effected (with little
or no medicine. 2' M
Please Copy the Address—
DR. ST. VINCENT,
177 Liverpool Street (facing Hyde Park), Sydney
EuCALVPTE du.sa.
ICOLEmane&sons
TREE OF LIFE
iw
Victory (Mntment^
MT The Only Pure Encalypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Oentennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Golds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Bungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
eto. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and Skin Diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Fills, Euoalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
lamed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young children and aged
people. Also, makers of the'Eucalypte Lozenges
lor the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundba.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—227 Elizabeth-stßket.
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations, M 1 Ml
Business Announcements.
Mm>
SKATE ROLLERS.
FTIURKBY BOXWOOD, guaranteed the best In the Arnett-
- 1 - can market, at the following low prices:—
12 ha. Boxwood, in not less than 10,000 lota SIS per let
2 in. „ „ 10,000 „ .. 817 „
12 in- .. 60,000 „ „ 812 „
2 in. „ „ 50,000 „ ~ 8U „
Shrough rate to Anetralla about 81 600. per 1000 rolien.
Address—
JOHN T. LONE.
182 & 184 S. Clark-street, Chicago, 111., U.B.A.J f
'-TV
|M8»nkCTUA€R9
ttMfOBTERS Of
WffftAPSXt
438CE0RCE 8T
SYDNEY
jfatasifc jLa*3tCUrg
Branch ;
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitkens.)
10 RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
£60,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & 00., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, M Pitt
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight 1b
S)ld. Send your full address, and we will send Post
ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.* M • l v S 1
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
In advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sa-e every Friday ai
the office, George Street, or from the runners In
she street.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEOftOE STREET
SYDNEY
v PORTERS orAlirHC
MEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT RTEKET, BBXSBAMB.
&
o mv#
k/
1VN10IH0
1
**V\UGHS ur* 1 -*
OBTAINED A
FIRST CUSS AWARD
OR
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
•ft
ISTHEBESTIRTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUC H’S
RECF.IVF.DTHE INTERNATIONAL
PRIZE MEDAL
Manufactured byJamesXhannom
HaabouA S t Sydney
Sold by Ail Uocers and Stor&eeptn
_i_j LII Tirnmirr - -
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
%
PATENT
s
PILLS
to
£
$
W
s
Am aairsKmlly ad
snitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Pai-
ne** and Swelling
after Heals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Loee of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costireness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
Hag ismeations, 4c. The first dose will fir# relief
tefrsssaiy minute*.
Sv*ry sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
tas ei these Pills and they will he acknowledged to he
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Fes* fssaale* of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry oil all humour** and
Hetae about all that is required. No female should
hawithoat them. There is no Medicine to be found
oqesßl Beecham’s Pill* for removing anyohstruc-
fttae dr irregularity of the system. If taken aecor-
Afess to the directions given with each box, they
wukess. restore females of all ages to sound and
ro&sst health. This has been proved, by thousands
whs have tried them, and found the benefit* which
c-ra ensured by their use.
Tor a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and aQ
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
etrsawfthen the whole muscular system, restore the
longkot complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
oc health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
beat guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BXIOKAM’S PILLS have the Largeit Sale «/ any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beeoham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheeedag, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
ara the seat ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty ®f breathing, which nightly deprive the
•attest of rest. Let any person give BEKOHAM’S
OOTJOH FILLS a trial, and the most violent Oongh
will in a short fime be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. lid. and 2s, Od, each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medieias
i Stoalsra everywhere.
I HA—Fnll directions are given with each hex.
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Branches : IT“1
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET
Paid-np Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cltleL
throughout the United States of America anc
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial anc
Travellers’ Letters of Credit. £ll^3
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
gOUNOB CONQUERS DISEASE 9
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
iitordlng to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No MOB! MERCURY OB OTHER NOZIOBK
Stoxaohici Contaminations.
Dr. T. C.
WRIGHT,
M. 8., Ch. M., &0.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising In Australia who
holds, the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, taM
established the
44 Tlit«rißß Progressive Medical Institute*”
18. FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
(Of the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Net'
Tone Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
\ Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Braptlons, Premature Decay, Incapacity lot Study
Of Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it 1s curable, he
will tell you eo I If not, he will tell yon also, for he will
net nndertake a case unless he Is confident of effecting a
core. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yours , t that the Dr. understands you case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
| H. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that I do not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I claim only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly Informed In my speciality.
Note Address—
FtOimSITE VESICAL lISIITUTI,
U, Funders Btbbbt W„ ICbibogbnb.
tOT Me eonnection erith any other Medical Inetitute in
AuttreUi* Box 188, G.F.O.
FOR BALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office,
Announcements,
Guineas’* Extra Stout.
riRSI QUALITY.
II!• 1 : 1
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLS PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
Balchin, Johnston and Go.,
Cenunereial Chambers, Bond-Street. Sydney
Robert butcher a oa
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to . >
693 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets), 37
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and out Ol
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
D"'RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and Is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON. ENGLAND.
C. STEPHENSON
HAS OK BALD-
WINS CASKS, BREWERS' CASKS. VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, ft WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, fcO.
COOPERAGE,
SBT KENT STREET, and IT* SUSSEX STRESS
Between King and Market Streets, *
IBS
*rm »«?«» hemt*eH,» «&<
V* nroii tfttt
(flWrtsWa*.
k jSeard FhMr did this,,
In*?<B wiU do ii me either bald'
fheaJ or hare foot- Poreea
heavy Moustache in from ft to i
4 weeks and never failed o,ooo*
young men abroad# wear full
iearde, having used IteS phta. ,V» injury, sadly appliod, oerteA'.
to effect. Packets, la. Sd. oaeh. If or Se.Sd., port paid, cant nsißa
sewer, free from observation. Address. IP™** »®ij gisa, Sole Afeesb,
Boa V3O. 0. P. 0., Sydney. H. B. W.
QS
mzm MSs •
’ (SfcsW'fc***
WALDER, Tent, Tarpanlin, Oilskin Makes,
>• 296 PITT STREET.
2
MARQUEES ON HIRE.
umbrellas
m<
gIPOT
Soto yafc> tTmbrel!*
sorwed. ond yowl
Ftfitfilf tro-lined and
to New.at
J. SX7LLIV A»r^
Ml Ooora© Str««|
Brickfield Hill, t*ss
3U»«rpool sad BatSnnO
fwaacSi made to nfc ‘
Bepain oeoOy
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NBAS
AND WELL."
D BERNARD'S Piotcbh md MooiiDWl
• SfOBB, 899 Ceorge-street (opposite Royal
Hotel), Is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&0., carefully stretched and ck nted, Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts sat with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection Invited.
L
IFE PBBBIBTATI
BT
DS. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
O N
II LONBDAiI SSBIIV BAB*, MIIBOVBIfI
This work is a medical treatise describing at*
onrately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, In*
discretions and other enervating Influences with
|helr associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of Incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Ooci
fidentlal Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid cl
quacks.
Price per mall Bs. Id. (any colonial a lamps), ffc
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A'Beckett Street West, Melbourne*


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MAD!
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30a. to 21i.
949 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Near Tatteraall’a.)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather.
< i J-
THEY ARB NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Eresh Goods Every Fortnight !
f I
MASON BROTHERS,
■BHH
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, "
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND _
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN AND CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. R. I^AKKIN,
IKFOBTIB OF
*r WINES, SPIBITS, BEERS «So 0., &>O, U
George and Glpps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 yean old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Oork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerao’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
Thh Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.B.L.
KST The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ali and Stout, arriving by monthly steam*-s.
■{ : Y
Prince off Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney,
or SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
nm-CLASS LADIES' REGIMENT EOOU and LA7ATOIT,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdkbn & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
. urns i ML
Will make Hair Grow over Older* Bean*
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, ISM.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FBBBB
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GIRTH GALUL
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANG&
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & 00., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Bedfern.
Wholtsalb :
Elliot* Bros., Australian Drag 00., B. Hoflnaß*
and 00., J. Brash, Son and 00., W. H. SlapNN
and Son, 383 George Street, and Bntlea Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Stdhbt ; Sparks and Pow«,
Eagle Street, Bbibbanb; E. Fleteher, Jobs.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN. T.i., 3S Pitt Street, BBUstll
PRICE St. 6d. Ptr Botil».
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and StwikwpW.
A BLESSING IN EVERT FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILL* AND OINTMBBI.
There is not a country in the oiMlstd world vhSN
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have netbesa
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordhMSf
ailments of humanity their benefioient action is at
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for tl
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM,
factored only at 78 Nsw Oxfobd-bt., London. M
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes as
If the address is not 6SI Oxford-street; London, they at«
spurious.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AX THJ
SEMINS MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
VI C T
X* X
MELBOURNE
Richmond
WINDSOB
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
BTAWELL
EOHUOA ...
BEBOHW ORTH
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL
BALE
MARYBOROUGH
Head Office; 44 Lonsdale Street Bast, near Swanaton Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bodrke street.
59 Swans ton Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
56 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aesohimann's.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Aga Hotel.
THE
Wolseiey Sheep Shearing Machine
PASTOEALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
A«K$T»t
T. ZEE. G-EDDES dz> Co.,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man's Watch. Made suitable for Hard Biding and Bough Wear and tpwimUp
rated for the climate. Supercedes all other English Levers ever introduced into this market.
fgjf to BE HAD FROM ATX WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY.
Wholesale Agents t
WOLFF. ABEL & CO., B 3 YORK STREET, Sydney.
“Nervous Debility.” A Free Medical Book.
TTun RASMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist In Nervous Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Sut-Ouu iob Nhbvous DniUl AH
Disbabks. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Address—
HERE. EASMTJSSBN, Danish Herbalist,
167 LIVERPOOL STREET. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WA&M.
AMEEIOAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
W2W
SfZE
de
*
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
-Ity-
Havc obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed,
'H : >"
The American Waltham Watohbs are constructed upon the soundest principles of horologlcal art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are no*
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co. , , , , .
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected In
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S. A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay. . , , , . . , .
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches, “No. 1 Size" just introduced in Australia is the moat exquisite gem of horologioal
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made. . , T 7 _ r . . _ a ~
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and a 1 the leading lines of the United Kingdom,
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split seconds Chronographs and vlinotb Recorders. Unequalled as marveleof constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold an vantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
&
*
IS.
5
CHRONOQRAP
Or.
r J
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH
Waltham Buildings, Bund Street, SYDNEY.
