

Ask yonr
Grocer for
Fry*B Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“ An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter." — Lanoei.
66
ID’O.ciiccLTa.s -A.ca.lto.’u.c-”
——— _
The London I American Tailoring Company
WERE THE
ggflT* Only Firm that obtained FIRST PRIZE and SPECIAL MENTIOM
AT THE
S
I
T
[HE above Company wish to draw the attention of the Public to the brilliant success achieved by them since opening in Australia.
]Sot only have they been successful in pleasing the Public of the Southern Hemisphere with
PIT, STTLS as TILTrr m Z m of
which they have manufactured into garments made to order, but the y have competed against the world at the great International
Show in Victoria, and succeeded in obtaining the Highest Award ever given to any Tailoring jjirm, viz..
FIRST PRIZE, with Special Mention, for HIGH-CLASS TAILORING,
Consequently we Challenge the World to produce the same Make, Fit, Style and Material at our List of Prices.
Jacket or Lounge Suits
f TO |
\MBABTJB.BJ
<os.
ELASTIC PANTS (to Order)
S 3.
s several small firms are copying our Style of Shops and supplying INFERIOR MATERIAL at our List of Prices, we
Caution the Public that our only establishment in Sydney at present is situated at the
Conner Sydney Arcade, George Street ( few doors above King Street).
One Thousand Dollars!
"Will be PAID by the PROPRIETORS of this COMPANY if
we pail to give exactly what we advertise.
obtained at any of our Stores not being thoroughly approved of the Money will be
Returned if the Garments are not Worn or Damaged.
T3=te Fall, ISS9.
“ssst ‘ima: ©■«.
Our WINTER SHIPMENTS are arriving nearly every Week by the P. & O. and Orient Steamers, consisting of the
LATEST DESIGNS in WEAR-RESISTING FABRICS, suitable for MEN’S, BOYS’ and YOUTHS CLOTHING.
“ Bdnuna Pretium Pecuniae *' Samples with Fashion Charts sent Post Free to any part of Australia.
s-Casli on or before yerjr
Branches in London, America, Victoria and Sydney.
Managing Directors
fA. W. FERNE.
4N. MCLENNAN,
U. h. bairsto w.
v
The Bulletin


CO
TO BA
U
m
NASONS
S
*
m
a
☆
X
O
ISIR ROGER
a
]t}Bm
DIXSONS
JB
XOl LBIOR HOTEL,
TOWERS.
CHARTERS
fMKtad Brick Hotel Building erected in chore
iltactod corner o GUI end Church Street*.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now imported In bottles and used in treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER
CEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts#
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD BPRUDEL - SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLE, 32, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
WhJ
{'SONIHdS
GRANDE-GRILLE.— For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS.— For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent T able W ater.
OP ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLAi\G YLANG
OPOPANAX
and oth r w^ll-lvnovvn Perfumes are
uiKqua.lj I for ill* ir delightful and
l.ia.i 'S? odour.
Of all Dealers, and nj the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark- " \YhiteKose”onQoiden
Lyre, wita Address in full.
ALLAH A. MARSHALL * CO.
Bnqinebbs, Ooppebsmiths, Bbass and Bub Fobndibb,
ffIHMUM. PiBMMBS, GASPITTBBS, SHIP ft GINBBAB SMITHS, ASS ft MKDIACVAt MBTAI WOBMHHB
Boiler Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
VwWa Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prloes-11,000 Flrea already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear. Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
IBM or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances,
MM ACCORD WORMS. » Maesaarie Flaeo« Sydney. aadlßtanmere Dead. Fetersham.
IM‘LEAN BROS., RIGG, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
<o
s
IRONMONGERS
12
5
<p
H/
C7
3
<*
<b
REG
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
;BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, *O., *O.
*W ILlLiI-A.lv£S’S
inauuu TEAS] FOWDEE
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBS ITUTB FOR YEAST.
aiBAB, TBA-CAZS8, PA8TST, Ac.,
AM
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE,
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian least Powder.
—
JOB THK TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
SOLO IN TINS AT 0d. THE HALF FOUND.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Year ending
Oct., 1887.
£431,125
206,685
391,356
807,828
797,990
Year ending
Oot., 1888.
. 16586,060
351,015
. 1,133.040
035,836
. 3,048,051
Subscribed Capital -
Paid-up and Accrued Capital
Deposits Received ...
Advances Made ~ «
total Income ... -
Year ending
Oct., 1886.
£180,425
61,630
93,581
123,248
200,106
Year ending
Oot., 1886.
£350,000
120,000
261,500
247,840
451,085
Deposits received at following Rates : —l2 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
cent.; 3 months, 6 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS' BANK BRANCH.
To Persona who desire to pul by small sums of men rlam Ajoaonnt, Mid
• . l annure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
EVERY “A™THAT THEia DEPOSITS, REMAIN IN THE BANK
this BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
&KFLE mil for Borrowers. TERMS LIBERAL.
t
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
£IAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of la. pe
Share Entrance Pee, and the Payments upon these Shares are la
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest*
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in Cash.
The holders of tne First Issue of these Shares received In October,
1885, £26 la. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed only
£l4 65., at the rat aof Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Hon. JOHN HIM l«, M.P., J.P., - - Chairman.
WILLIAM UOHEKIf - Acting-Secretary.
■*)
THE
FEDERAL COFFEE PALACE
CORNER OF
DsZirrg' <55 Colllrrs Streets, Iv£e 1100-currAe,
Containing 560 ROOMS, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES off ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL « GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menit, presided over by an experienced Chif, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, BEADING and RECEPTION ROOMS-
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
George Cohen ----- Manager*


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No 477.
SATURDAY, APRIL 6, 1889,
Price, Bd.
"AN OMIOUS SILENCE."
BRIDGET (The Victorian R.C. Vote, to David Syme): "DAVID, YE BATE ME YEARS AGO BEKASE I TALKED TOO MUCH, AND
NOW YE BATE ME AGIN BEKASE AN OMINOUSE SILENOE.' WHAT WOULD YE HAVE ME DO"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
’
’ PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
JHalf-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 06 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc. , and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
" Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted. —
sfhether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential,
“ The Bulletin” trill return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But w,e
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
vte are'not responsible for the preservation or transmission
vf such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shilling 9,
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
I’ound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony — you,
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to, you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that,
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely ;
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish,
to interfere.
SATURDAY, APRIL 6, 1889
The Law and the Profits.
Ever since Courts of Law have existed they
have been manipulated and matoeovred f or
the benefit of the legal fraternity. Ever
since the passing of the famous Act which
declared that an attorney was a gentleman
whether he liked it or not, our legal system
may ba said to have been managed by the
lawyers for the lawyers, and not for the
public. A mist of confusion has been thrown
over all legal proceedings ; precedent has
been piled on prec;denb, statute on statute,
decision on decision, and yet the law is just
as slow, just as expensive, and jnat as uncer-
tain as It was in the days of Jarndyce and
Jarsdyce,
• • r
Ab iut the most simple legal matter which
can exist Is the collection of debts—trade
debts in particular. There very seldom Is
any qtes ion or dispute about trade and
mercantile debts. When Jones gets his
grocer’s bill at the end of the month, he
knows full wall that hs owes the money.
When Smith is handed his pass-book at the
bank and the pass-book shoirs a large over-
draf ', Smith knows well enough that he has
had the money, and he knows where it went
to. Supposing, however, that Jones and
Smith fail, from circumstances over which
they h*ve no control, to pay up, how do the
Courts of Law act Iu the matter ? How do
they treat these simple cases ?
• • •
One would expect the Courts, as a pre-
liminary step, to find oub whether the
matter was disputed. For Instance, if one
man said that another owed him money, the
Courts cf Law ought ab once to call upon the
alleged debtor to swear an oath that he did
not owe the money, holding before hls eyes
the penalty for perjury if he wilfully and
knowingly swore an untruth. This would
weed oub the disputed cases and would
enable the claimants In the nndiiputed cases
to get redress without further waste of time
and money. In the disputed cases the
Courts coull proceed in their own dismally
slow way to decide the matter.
•
The Courts, however, are much too lavyer-
govermd to do anything of the sort. The
Cmrbs treat all matters as disputed and
compel the claimant to seek the aid of a
legal gentleman to draw up a document
known as a writ, and to issue and serve it
on the debtor. 0 1 reoelpt of bhl? writ the
debtor may, If he chooses, acknowledge hls
Indebtedness by entering no appearance to
it, whereupon the claimant’s attorney draws
up an entertaining document known as an
alillavit of debt, which Is sworn and filed,
and he then compiles another literary etf ;rb
known as a judgment, which he also files,
and then he delivers himself of a third
masterpiece In the shape of the widely-
known and respected i 'fi fa." which he
hands to the sheriff, who then proceeds bo get
in his bloodybhirsty work and bo issue a warrant
to hls bailiff, and tha latter finally swoops
down on the place where the debtor's goods
oughttoba,finds that hehasnoasse'rs whatever
good, bid, or Indifferent, that he has lost hls
billet, that hls furniture Is hired on the time-
payment system, that hls wife is ill in bed,
and that nothing can bn realised to satisfy
tha creditor’s judgment. The wretched
creditor, therefore, has to pay his own
lawyer, sheriffs* fees, bailiffs’fees, &0., &c.,
oat of hls own pocket, the amount varying
from 10 guineas upwards. And all this over
an undisputed trade debt, for even If the
debtor ba willlcg bo admit the debt the
whole of the senaelets rigmarole which we
have described must he gone through>. There
is no way oub of it j. this is the simplest way
of collecting a debt which the law allows
But human nature being human nature,
people la difficulties are not general y willing
to admit a debt no matter how justly due,
while any easy and safe method ex’sts of de-
laying the creditor. And the law, of course,
provides them with ample opporiu,allies, At
the expansa of a few shillings, and without
having to make apy affidavit which, might
get them Into trouble, th.-y can pub the
claimant to an amou.nt of trouble infinitely
greater than we have described, and can
compel him to run a lob of 1 ink, waste a lob
of titua, and lay oub an enormous amount In
lawyers’ fees —which latter is, as we have said,
tha main object of our lav. This,sorb o!
thing suits the lawyers, and, as for the public
—why, damn the public !
• • *
Tne mercantile community have wrested
one small concession from the legal triba I,f
a man signs a promissory note or cheque and
then dishonours lb tha holder of lb cin gab
a fairly speedy judgment by compelling tha
other man to swear what defence he has, and as
the other man rarely or ever has any defence ha
usually dares nob swear any. Bat the holder
of the cheque must first go through a certain,
amount cf “law.” He has bo pay a lawyer
to issue a wri* 1 , and file a maj jsuc document
known as a declaration, and to follow lb up
by our old friends “ Judgment by default ”
and “ fi.fa These proceedings cost at least
nine guineas, so that even when a written
document exists proving the debt the lawyers
must still have thalr share of the spoil. The
amount of worry, delay, and expense en-
tailed on a suffering community by the
defects of our legal system is something
awful. The “ bad debts ” of, a mercantile
firm are always largely Increased by legal
coats if they attempt to collect any of the
money by means cf the lawyers. The
result is ttat debt-collecting firms spring
up—men who collect money for a com-
mission, and who very often stick to lb when
they have collected lb. Truly, between the
lawyers and the debt-collectors, the trades-
man Is between the devil and the deep sea,
• * •
The policy of the lawyers Is short-sighted.
Many a man prefers to take half the money
owing to him, or bo lose It altogether, rather
than employ a lawyer. “ Anything sooner
than go to law,” Is the prevailing sentiment.
If the public could depend on getting a speedy
and cheap termination to their proceed-
ings, a great Increase of legal work would be
brought to the lawyers. One of the legal
fraternity, Mr. A. B, Paterson, a Sydney
solicitor whose head seems to be somewhat
more level than those of hls fellow sharks,
has been throwing out some suggestions for
making debt-recovery more speedy and more
cheap. In a paper read by him before the
Australian Economic Association, he urges
that in mere debt-collecting matters the
Courts need not be appealed to at all. The
debtor should be first asked to swear on oath
that he disputes the claim. If he hona fide
disputes It, then the legal performance could
commence, bub If he was not willing to swear
that he did nob owe the money, the claimant
could obtain a “ fl. fa.," or something similar
could ba prepared and Issued by a Govern-
ment official appointed for the purpose, and
iu all undisputed cases the matter could be
wound up at once. Not one man in fifty
would chance a perjury prosecution fir the
sake of delaying matters. This is a reform
going to the root of the matter and promis-
ing well.
Some time ago the mercantile community
urged upon the authorities the necessity for
some improvement In legal matters, and Mr.
Salomons, who was then la power, promised
them that ha would taka the matter In hand.
He promised to Introduce the Judicature
Acts, and to Improve upon them by some
Ideas of his own, and, In fact, to dish up a
sort of hash, whereby the English decisions
would be nullified, the practice here would
be departed from, and the communry would
be started on a career of doubt, with no-
thing definite to guide them, and with no
refuge but their old enemy the lawyer. The
public do not care whether the lawyers do
their work by moans of the Judicature Act,
or the Habeas C irpus Act, or the D ig Act,
or the Garnishee Act. (A beautiful I gal
word that “ garnishee ” it sounds as If
someone were being slowly disembowelled.)
What the public look for la speed and cheap-
ness. We know how the Judicature Act
works In the other c.lonles. It Is a good
Act—for the lawyers. It makes little differ-
ence to the public.
The Sydney Echo devoted a leader to the
suggestions in Mr. Paterson’s paper, and
while trying, Echo like, to be on both sides
of the question at once, it remarked that a
great deal of good could be done by adopt-
ing his plan, bat that the speedy remedy
against debtors would put too much power
Into the hands of the tribe of Shylocks.
The Echo in its simplicity overlooks the
fact that the pranenb day Shy-look does not
allow himself to run the risk cf having to go
to Court: he takes a bill cf sale and seizes
under It with phenomenal promptitude.
The big mercantile houses all take bills cf
sale and promissory notes, whereby they can
wind up the small tradespeople to whom
they sell in very short order. It is the
sjnall retail traders—butchers and bakers
and grocers and tailors—that need some
protection, Very often small men —re-
tail drapers an! such like—are so’d
up by the big houses, while they them
selves are owed enough money to pay
ths debt twice over If they could only col-
lect It. U ider our present system they can
only collect it through the lawyers, and by
the time the thing is done the lawyer has all
the money and the tradesman has the ex-
perience I: Mr. Paterson's suggestion
were adopted, a tradesman could at any rate
find out cheaply whether his debtors had
any money or nob. As things now are It
generally co jts about £5O to find oub that
the debtors are worth about si.
• * *
The Bulletin looks forward to the time
when all legal process for the recovery of
debt will, have been cast Into the limbo of
the past ; when a dealer will give credit
solely and entirely at his own risk, and when
an entire community will cease to be taxed
for the purpose of holding the balance be-
tween over-keen tradesmen, who give un-
limited credit, and di(hones,i customers, who
will nob pay their debts. In that golden age
a man who misuses his credit will be
“posted” like a turf defaulter, and tha
lawyers, who fatten on the present system, will
require to search out other paths of Industry
for their subsistence. However, until the
people are educated to regard as a posiibillby
the drastic measure of reform at which we
hint, the plan proposed by Mr. Paterson
might very well be Incorporated in our
statute law.
A Word for the Cockatoo.
Mb. Brunkkr has signified his intention of imme-
diately amending the land laws of New South
Wales, and the S.M. Herald and the Sydney
Daily Telegraph are loud in their approbation
of Mr. Brunker s intention. Now The Bulletin
has a very strong prepossession in favour of an
amendment of these land laws, but its anxiety is
to see them amended in favour of the small
farmer —the person whom the squatter and
the Civil Servant politely dub the “ cocka-
too.” The squatter is pretty often a person
who grabs the land and then howls to tha
Govern meat to bring him water at the tax-
payer’s expense When he finds that cry un-
heeded because the expense is more than the tax-
payer could possibly bear he then shrieks for
fixity of tenure, in order that he may be able to
borrow money from the banks on property which
does not belong to him, for a reduction of rent in
order that he may be able to pay the bank’s
interest upon the money he has raised on the
public estate, and for compensation for the im-
provements made with this borrowed money, in
order that when his tenure expires he may coerce
the public into abandoning its claim to resume
possession of its own land. The whole duty
of the community, from the point of view
of this not uncommon sort of squatter, is to
give him a long lease at a nominal rent, to
make railroads to his front door to enable him to
send his wool to the sea coast and bring back
English produce at the lowest possible rates, and
finally, after letting him have the almost gratui-
tous use of the land, to pay him for the fences he
placed on it and the dams he dug in it and the
houses he built on it for his own benefit. These
are the objects Mr. Brunker, with the full ap-
’ probation of the Sydney daily press, is about to
promote. If he succeeds, New South Wales will
be one long step nearer to the ideal squatter’s
paradise—a gigantic sheep-run divided into pad-
docks by wire fences, employing one man to every
15,000 sheep, and unbroken by an intrusive
settlement, excepting those on the seaboard where
the necessary brokers, shippers, and importers
find room for existence, and where the hotels and
club', dear to the squatter in town, may
await his periodical presence.
• - * .
Any man who knows the difference between a
bullock and a bradawl is fully aware that man for
man the despised cockatoo is a more valuable
citizen than the average squatter, inasmuch as the
tendency of the farmer’s occupation is to enable a
large number of people to live well and pro-
fitably oa a comparatively small area of ground.
The people thus brought into close contiguity
foster and promote industrial settlement close to
their doors in order that they may procure manu-
factured goods in return for their produce. The
persons thus attracted to one spot themselves
require all those paid minuters to civilisation
which towns attract, and thus to the vicinity of
the farm come —first, the artificer ; secondly, the
t idesman; thirdly, the professional folk, good,
Dad, and indifferent, doctors, lawyers, school-
masters, clergymen, artists, journalists, auc-
tioneers, agents, cheats, pimps, brokers, swindlers
and confidence men. Theiefore a community of
cockatoos scratches together a town while a
squatter is doing hia bast to scare away settle-
m nt. The cockatoo’s future is bound up with the
country he tills; the squatter’s dream of bliss
is to return as a millionaire to the Europe he left
as a pauper and carry away from the country that
gi\e bin wealth every penny he has squeezed
rom her soil. The real duty of the squatter
is to hold the land until it is required for set-
tlement. It matters little how small his rent may
be, provided tint when the State wants the land
it can be had, after reasonable notice, for the set-
tlement of the people. But beware how you part
with the power to reclaim at once the people’s pro-
perty when it is necessary for them to have it;
and, while you are trying your best to placate the
banka and the squatters, just cast your eyes on the
cockatoo, and see if you cannot help him to taka
hi? place in the land.
<» » »
If you want a model for guidance, dear Mr.
Brunkek, take a look at that great republic whose
political system is so adored by your chief, because
the executive government is there independent of
Parliament, and the Premier cannot be dis-
possessed by a vote of censure, and you will find that
no man can, in the United States, select more
than one hundred and sixty acres of land. This
block, however, he can obtain under the home-
stead law by simply living oa it and cul-
tivating it for five years. His entire cash
payment only amounts to twenty two dollars
(£5 10 j.), when he takes possession, and
ten dollars more (,£2 1?. 8.1.) when he gets his
patent five years afterward. Here, dear sir, we
encourage a selector to, take up a larger area but
come down upon him for a heavy rent, at the
same time that we are giving the big squatter
contiguous laud for next to nothing. In all the
agricultural and pastoral States of America the
“no fence” law obtains —that is to say, the
pastoralist must fence in his cattle or must be re-
sponsible for the damage to his neighbour the
selector’s crops. The “ cockatoo ” need not fence
in his scrap of a holding) but may sleep securely
though hjs neighbour be lord of the hcof and the
horn multitudinous. Judges Kent and Story,
the same Judges who wiped the ey a? of the Eng-
lish landlords over the Alabama business, settled
the matter for ever in one famous decision of the
United States Supreme Court, wherein they told
the Cattle King he must be responsible in these
words : “ The farmer’s cabbages do not get out of
the ground to eat his neighbour’s cows. It is his.
neighbour’s cows that trespass on the farmer’s,
lard to eat his cabbages. Therefore the owners,
of the cows must fence them in the cab-
bages will lie quiet enough without fences.”'
This is common-sense, dear Sir, though you may
not see it at once, and it is a part of this great.
American policy of encouraging the small settler
and letting the big one look after himself. So it
comes about that there are upwards of 4,000,000 ofc
separate farms in America with an average of
134 acres to each farm, and an aggregate annual
crop worth £l., 106,270,000 sterling on th ©ground
where it grows.
• ® O
One of your objects is to enable the squatter to
raise money freely on the security of property
which, is only lent to him by the nation. The.
Americana look just the other way about it... They
prevent their selector from borrowing money on.
his land by exempting it from execution. No-
creditor can, seize it even after Unde Sam has
parted with the Government grant becavtse the
wife is. entitled to dower out. of it, and hew
claim is greater than that of the creditor.
Why should a creditor be encouraged to lend
money upon property which does not belong
to the debtor ?■ Why should you not take a leaf,
from, the American land law and encourage the
small farmer ?/ Suppose, for instance, in drought-
stricken districts you decided to let the State bear
the expense of sinking artesian wells, and making
cough water channels wherever a dozen or two of
small farmers would club to raise interest on the
money and pay off the debt by instalments.
Suppose, instead of tempting moneyless men to
take up large areas of land which they can only
reclaim with borrowed money, you were to try the
American plan of not permitting any man to get
more than 160 acres and encouraging him to be
contented with 40 or 80 acres. Do you not see at
once that you would promote settlement, increase
population, develops manufactures, cause the
growth of towns and increase the revenue? These
are the objects you ought to aim at—not the crea-
tion of solitary sheep-runs. Man does not live by
wool alone, and the prosperity of New South
Wales will never be secured by tempting adven-
turers to become the cat’s-paw by which the banks
acquire the freehold of the colony. Already some
of those institutions boast of 400 or 500 stations
each, and if you help the squatter much further in
his money borrowing you will presently find four-
fifths of the country in the bank managers’ par-
lours.
John Bright: His Darker Side.
John Bright died last week, and all the Conser
vative journals which masquerade in the garments
of Democracy have been howling over his grave as
a quarter of a centmy ago they howled at his
policy. Then he was in their eyes an iconoclast,
an agitator, and an upsetter of time-honoured
institutions. Now he was, they find out, a tribune
of the people and an angel in a square-cut coat.
As long as he was an active force in the world
they abhorred him. When he hung as a disused
weapon on the wall they began to deify him and
hold him up as a model. It is easy to see
why the John Bright of 1840 to 1860 was de-
t sted by the very men who now pretend to wor-
ship his memory. It is because he was only
capable of action in one specific line, and they had
found out how to dodge all bd a shit in that


Paikes’s new hero is John Boras of
Gettysburg, He las turned his back on John
Bums of Hornsby.
The now historical N.S.W. Casual Labour
Board which quietly spent a lot of public money
on the private estates of Parkesian members of
Parliament and their hangers-on, was evidently
possessed of bigideas. A departmental report shows
that on one road nearly fout miles long, made with
stats funds upon private property, there is a cut-
ting of 18ft. through solid rock, and a bridge more
than 95fb. long will have to ba erected. On thl i
particular track there is, also, a bridge over 90ft.
in length at Dent’s Creek. Quite a Roman road
—not a holy Roman road, the Pup forbid 1
Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite Custom House).
London Bankers :
AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK,
2 King William Street, London, E 0.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual banking
business.
Intkbest on Deposits s
8 years 8J per cent.
12 Months 8 „
T 8. RICHARDSON ... Managing D'rector
direction. John Bright, were he alive and young
again, could not hurt them now ; on the contrary,
the arguments of his best days would tell in their
favour and the eloquence of his prime would be
exerted on their side. He was 20 years behind his
time when he ceased to be a factor in any political
equation, and they are just as much behind the
age at this moment
* • •
John Bright s one political aim was to break
tie power of the great landlords of England, and,
in conjunction with many abler men, now for the
most part forgotten, he worked hard for that end.
The abolition of the Corn Laws, in which Elihu
Burkett, William Cobbett, Villikrs, Gibson,
Oobdbn, and a great host of men assisted, was
the first great stroke at their supremacy. The
widening of Freetrade was the second, the exten-
sion of the suffrage the third. To these, many
of them added the repeal of the law of entail and
of the custom c f prlmogenitur a. The first three
planks in this platform were fastened down
after many a defeat, the last two are
still very far from being established. But the re-
peal of the Corn Laws, the extension of Freetradr,
and the lowering of the suffrage, only loo.enea
the grasp of the land owher on agriculture to
fasten it more firmly still upon all other farms of
industry. The landlord takes the larger share of the
wages and profits of trade and manufacture in the
shape of increased rents and heavy fines on short
leases, and huge royalties on mines and big per-
centages on all schemes which require for realisa-
tion a foothold upon the earth as what scheme
does not The Stanleys and Gbosvenobs and
Cavendishes detested and abhored J ohn Bright
until they found out that he was playing their
game without knowing it, and then their Jove
grew fiercer than their hate had been. Now they
mourn his loss and say : “ When comes such
another crisis where again shall we find a tribune of
the people who will turn their attack to side issues
as he did and leave us and our privilege to live by
bloodsucking untouched and uninjured ?”
M
• * *»
For John Bright was no more a statesman
than a hammer is an artisan. He wanted free
corn because free corn meant cheap bread and
cheap bread meant cheap labour. He wanted
Freetrade because Freetrade meant free importa-
tion of the raw produce he used in his mill. He
wanted free voting because he did not want the
landlord to interfere between the labourer and the
factory-owner, but he was bitterly opposed to
every movement which limited the factory owner s
power over his workmen. Ho opposed all the
factory acta in succession. He opposed all
limitations upon child labour, upon female
labour, and upon the hours of labour. He
fought tooth and nail against all propcsds to
make employers responsible for the accidents
that happen to the people who work their
machines, and he bitterly reviled the proposals,
eventually carried into law, which forced them to
guard their machinery. He regarded Trades
Unions with hatred, and maintained that the
freedom of contract between employer and em-
ployed shouli be untouched dther by legislation
on the part of Parliament or combination on the
part of the people. Nor was any part of his vast
means devoted to the amelioration of the lot of
the labourer by whose toil those means were won.
He did not even ail the movement which led to
the abolition of the truck system, albeit that the
payment of wages in food and commodities instead
of money led the workman to the mosthidecui
misery and enriched tte employer with the
guiltiest gain. His policy meant the transfer of
power from the feudalist to the factory-owner, and
it meant nothing else in the world.
Australians have little reason to join in the
mawtish eulogies poured upon John Bright, fcr
his “ peace at any price ” policy openly contem-
plated the possible abandonment of any British
colonies which it might he inconvenient to pro-
tect. The cne thing needful was tr;de, and the
one thing reasonable was to promote trade, and
the one thing detestable was to do anything
which woul 1 hinder i r .do. He saw quite clearly
that half of his policy bad made Great Britain
tl e slop-shop of the world, but he never heeded
the other half by which Great Brita n laid herself
open to be undersold in her own markets the
moment foreign nat'ons learned to make rip their
own raw material for themselves. Belgian loco-
motives and German cutlery and Prussian arms
had not begun to be used in Great Britain when
he fought tor Freetrade, and when those com-
modities began to oust British manufactures, it did
not matter to him for the carpet-trade
still remained untouched un'il comparatively re-
cent years. He could tay ‘ let the galled jade
wince, our withers are unwrung,’' and while he
could say that, his sole earthly care was that no
one should be able to look down on John Bright.
There are two sides to every question, and when
the life of this eloquent but mu row-minded poli-
tician is discussed it ii just as well that they
should both be known.
» *
His attitude during the American War has been
enormously misrepresented. It has been con-
stantly said that as a strong opponent of slavery
he espoused the side of the North. Now, ii was
not until 1863, when the war had been going on
for two years, that the Government of Abraham
Lincoln issued its famous proclamation putting
an end to slavery. Prior to that time all Northern
statesmen with the President at their head openly
offered to wt iva the entire question of slavery if
the Sjuth would return to its allegiance.
Nor was the proclamation issued until it was
seen that the South could ntv.r be reconciled
and that the slaves bad begun ti fight
for their masters. That slavery in itself was not
too big a pill lor Bright to swallow may be
plainly teen in his avowed sympathy with Russia
before and during the Crimean war, for at that
time the entire working population of Russia were
serfs, and not until after the Emperor icholas,
Mr. Brights special friend, was dead, and the war
over, and the Emperor Alexander crowned did
slavery cease in Russia.. Peace to his ashes ! He
is gone where ail statesmen must some day join
their constituents, and the best thing that can be
said tf him ii that the world would have been no
worse off had he died 20 years ago and not much
less comfortable had he never been born at all.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Another Ominous Silence.
The Melbourne Age, like the Sydney News, has
dropped upon a great Jesuitical conspiracy—this
time, however, a conspiracy in the Freetrade in-
terest, and like the political phantom which was
raised in New South Wales the southern bogey
has been preserving an Ominous Silence. Conse-
quently, a day or two previous to the Victorian
elections the Age issued a frenzied blast of war
pointing out that no bigot had yet arisen to de-
nounce the Education Act, and that the Catholic
candidates, with the Freetrade and Local Option
votes behind them, had neglected to blaspheme
against the secular school system; and then,
gradually rising into fury, it cursed the Romish
Church for not doing something that it could
be cursed for doing, and howled at it for not saj iog
something that it could howl at it for when it had
said it, and asked why nobody arose to kick its
cherished gods so that it could kick him for kick-
ing these deities and thus establish a mighty scare
throughout the land. In Victoria, according to
the doctrines of this new Kiama Ghost, Freetrade
and Cathol ; ciem a-e leagued together in a con-
spiracy whose chief outward sign is that il has no
sign at all, and whose great offendirg lies in the
fact that it doesn’t offend ; and the Pope, who bet
his triple crown upon Protection in New South
Wales, has planked the same gaudy emblem of
sovereignty on the opposite faith upon the other side
of the Murray, Consequently the Yellow Pup of
the South barks for Protection, just as the Yellow
Pup of the North screamed for Frestrade ; and the
curse of sectarian hatred is kept alive and the
embers of religious riot are fanned into open con-
flagration. Political strife, unfortunately, is now
almost the only remaining support of the faiths
which once screamed and howled and clawed each
other throughout the Australian Continent. The
Catholic Church, though galvanised into a sort of
convulsive sctlvity by the pcmp of cathedrals and
the gilded splendour of cardinals and archbishops,
is politically but a shadow. The Protestant sects
overhaul the dry bones of orthodoxy at dismal
conferences, and their adherents wear a top hat on
Sundays, and snore comfortably while wealthy
pastors, who boom syndicates all the week, tell
them, in tones of gentle admonition, that the
Lord thinks twice before He damns people wi h
property; and the prophets of both den on inatioi s
have gone back on their ancient dogmas became a
revolutionary generation declines to have its sou
consigned to eternal fire in the uncompromising
way which kept the faith alive in older days. No
body cares much for h's own creed in this era of
agnosticism, and pious devotion is only manifested
by the occasional slinging of mud at a rival
church. Religions exist chiefly for purposes
of abuse and derision at political ci les,
and the money whieh builds useless chapels and
cathedrals and is fooled away on useless stone
saints is raised chiefly out of the insane fulmina-
tions of the News and the Age and other journals,,
which care no more about the spirit ot religion
than they do about the cat-divinities of Thebes
and Memphis. It is the growing curse of Aus-
tralian politics that every political party must
needs rest its theories against the withered dad-
dock of some blighted pope, or bishop, or apostle,
who died and was buried and probably lost his
soul hundreds of years ago; and it matters no-
thing though William of Orange may howl for
Foreign-trade in one colony and for Protection on
the other side ot the border-line—though the tot-
tering successor of the infamous Alexander
Borgia may plank his saints and his relics on the
National cause in New South Wales and subscribe
the same collection of venerated trash on behalf of
foreign shoddy in Victoria—each cause must have
a god, and any god will do. Scans day, possibly,
the Salvation Army may become a power in the
land and wield a block vote strong enough to turn
the scale in a contested election, and then the cry
will arite that the big drum is in danger, and that
the other side is maintaining an Ominous Silence
about a scheme for abolishing the Hallelujah
lass who walks backwards at the head of the
procession charging wildly into ash-carts and
vegetable-barrows rn h r blind career. Some
day, by evil fortune, even the hated Chinaman
may rank as a great political influence in Aus
tralia, and then On Kbk and Law Chow will be
u minded by the Evening News that its party is
the only one which has the interests of Joss and
Confucius sincerely at heart, and that its oppo-
nent! intend to go about knocking the stuffing out
ot the two-headed idol with a club. The moth-
eaten, cankered orthodoxies whose outward sym-
bols are clerical land-sharks and pious defaulters
and two-million-ton cathedrals aid perpetual
subscription-lists have all had their day, and
having outlived their usefulness they are only
waiting to be decently interred that their place
may be taken by some new faith bearing a closer
resemblance to the creed which was promulgated
of old in Galilee and Judea. Therefore it is only
becoming that they should be permitted to die
without opposition, and that the Ominous Silence
should be left unbroken to all eternity. The
churches have howled loudly enough in the past,
and half the volumes of history are filled with
their frantic discords. If, as the Age and the
News assert, one of them has at last entere d into
a “ conspiracy ” to say nothing, we cm only ask
that tihis unwonted dumbness should be en-
couraged in every possible way. The world has
been cursed by 200f) years of ceaseless clamour,
and it wants a rest.
A Muddied Theory.
The Sydney Telegraph sits upon the fiscal Jail!
and sings
Even Freetraders hesitate over the abolition of duties*
which exert a protective effect, and by the aid of which
industries have grown up. Indeed, one of the strongest?
objections to the imposition of duties which may possibly
prove to operate protectively is founded on the practical!
impossibility of getting rid of them.
We ask Editor Ward to look with a judicious eyes
on this extract from the leading columns of his*
Foreign-trade paper, and to state if he knows any
remark which he could make outside of a lunatic-
asylum that would be rougher on the cherished
creed by which he getsi his oats. In the first
sentence he admits that industries do grow up
and afford employment and accumulate wealth in
the country by means of protective duties, and for
years his paper has been getting the Government
advertising because it said that they didn’t. In
the second sentence he admits that when once
these duties are imposed they cannot be removed
again. Well, the voice of the people is the founda-
tion of all law, and the only possible re won why
these duties can’t be removed is that the people,
having once experienced the benefits of even
partial Protection, will see the Telegraph print-
ing machine in the lowest cellars of Gehenna
before they will allow any Foreign-trade Govern-
ment to deprive them of the small share of daily
bread which they have managed to secure. And
having admitted this much the Telegraph waiV
that “ tbs strongest objection to the imposition of
duties which may possibly prove to operate pro-
tectively ” —the same duties “ by the aid of which
industries have grown up”—is that they cannot
be afterwards removed, so as to abolish the in-
dustries in question and leave their employe i
des'itute, and provide a clear field for that blessed
institution, the Foreign-trade importer. We did
not expect such ruinous candour as this even from
the Telegraph, and we urge that piper to rise
out of the gutter of incoherence, and blow the
dust off itself, and repent.
♦
Queensland Disintegration.
Northern (Queensland teems to contemplate
striking another blow for separation, and the
good wishes cf all true Australians are with the
cause. Hitherto the North has been forcibly re-
tained by means of the superior voting power of
the Southern majority, but this state of things is
so utterly contrary to all the principles of demo-
cracy that it cannot be much longer maintained.
For good or evil the will of the people must pre-
vail; the North has declared almost unanimously
for a t eparate existence, snd though a cumbersome
system of government has given to the S ruth a
certain legal powe r to man down the votes of the
Northern members, the politicians of Queen street,
Brisbane, have no more moral right to coerce what
is by choice a distinct and separate country than
a Chinese maj rity at Pekin could have to decide
—by reason cf superior numbers—the State policy
of Australia. Nature has made the tropical regions
of the Gulf country as completely distinct from the
pastoral lands of the Darling Dowrs as Norway is
from Turkey, and the mere fact that Brisbane is
the common political centra cf gravity can never
bring all Queensland into permanent union.
Either the Nort h must be held by com pulsion or it
must be permitted to secede; and as it.is impossible
for the democratic party in Australia to allow any
section of the Australian population to be coerced
into submission to another and larger section,
secession is inevitable. A few years ago
Sir Samuel Griffith invoked the aid of England
to compel cne balf of Queensland to ecntinue to be
misgoverned by the other, but the experiment
cannot well be repeated. On that famous occa-
sion the old women of Downing-street, Whose
ideas of liberty are based on coercion in Ireland
and the rigime of bayonets in India, were per-
suaded than the new State, if once cut adrift from
the restraining influences of the pious,politicians of
Brisbane, would drift into immoral courses and
establish slavery and other akominations in the
tropics ; but no one save a driveller whose states-
manship was acquired in the Sunday-school and
the Methodist Conference can suppose that the
Ncrth will long permit the landsharks ard auc-
tioneers and squatting autocrats of the Darling
Downs to bold it in political bondage on tbe
miserable pretence that they are required to act
as inspectors of its immortal soul. The rise of, the
National party in Queensland makes it impossible
tbat England can again be invoked to suppress the
disaffecsed Australians beyond the alligator-line.
English interference in the internal corcerns of
Australia is practically over and the unwieldy states
of this continent must submit to the inevitable pro-
cess of disintegration which alone can lead to
Australian Federation. When Australia is
divided into amass of small states then the neces-
sity for mutual defence will compel the establish-
ment of a central Government on the American
pattern; till then, the chief mission of the half-
dozen over-grown colonies which constitute Aus-
tralasia will be to rear half a-dezen over-grown
autocrats of the Parkes and Gjllies and Griffith
plan, whose personal magnificence will lead them
to block all attempts at the establishment of a
powerful central Administration lest some political
rival should win the great prize of their ambition
and become the first premier of all Australia,
The Origin of Victorian Progress.
Dear Bulletin, —The oae .et rnal lie of which
the Foreign-trader never gets weary is the hoary
ficticn that when a .20 per cent, duty is imposed
on any article the pub ic at once and,for ever after-
wards pays 20 per cent mere for that article a i
the natural consequence. Every man with brains
knows this to be absurd, but then so few
people have brains that it passes muster and does
good service. New South Wales imports most of
h r goods from protected countries where a 20 or
25 per cent, duty has made the necessaries of life
cheaper than under the Freetrade regime—lor the
g.ods which now pass as English are more than
half German and American productions imported
into England and then exported again with a
c jmmission tacked on—and while protected manu-
factures thus monopolise her markets her politi-
cians still mouth the empty fable about Protec-
tion making everything dearer and raising the
necessaries of life to famine prices. ,If there is
any truth m this insane dogma why does not New
South Wales export her manufactures to America
and France and Germany, and thus support her
faith with something stronger than words ?
Many years ago, when the great alluvial gold
deposits of' Victoria were on the decline, thou-
sands of tradesmen in that colony began to
feel the necessity of manufacturing the
articles wth'ch they could no longer buy, but the
importers, who had got the market i into their
hands, looked upon the efforts to establish
colonial industries as an inroad upon their privi-
leges, and continued to retain the business which
a free port had thrown into their hands. Richard
Heales, then Chief Secretary of the colony, was
iihe first prominent man to put the case clearly
before Parliament and the country. He said : —
“In my business, that of a ccacbbuilder, there is a cer-
tain class of buggy which the importers lay down, on the
wharves from America at £75. We can make such a buggy
Tfor that sum ; but as soon as we enter into competition
with the importers they lower their price to £65, ard at
that price we are unable to compete with them. They
suffer no loss—they simply forego profit. _ And when we
stop the competition they raise their price and so make
up their profits. Now, if we place a duty of £10 upon
that particular buggy it will put us on a fair level wi'h
them, and the public will still get the article for £75.
By-and-bye, when our artisans have plenty of trade, and are
assisted by the best wood-working and other machinery,
we shall be able to make such buggies cheaper, and com-
pete fairly with the importers."
It was this illustration which broke down the old
fiction of the Victorian Foreign-tiaderS—the same
fiction which sti 11 past es current in N. tJ. Wales— that
Protection was a tax on the working man. About
the same time George Higinbotham, now Chief
Justice of Victoria, brought out by the Argus as
a Freetrade writer, became a convert to the policy
enunciated by Richard Heales, and put the case
thus
If we continue a free port the merchants will continue
to drive the manufacturers out and the public will have
to pay whatever price an importers’ ring may choose to
fix If we placs a high protec Dive duty upon all articles
that can be made here tbe manufacturers will
charge the public what price they choose to make ;
hut if we place such a duty upon all manu'actured goods
as will bring the importer and the manufacturer ujpon a.,
fair level, then we shall have lair, honest, and legitimate
competition, and the public will be called upon to pay
only a fair price.
The result was t v e introduction of a protective
tariff. The.filO duty was put on the £75 bug^y
and a proportionate price upon all other vehicles.
This gave an immense impetus to the coach-
building trade, and now hundreds of skilled
artizans are constantly employed in making
buggies, carriages, carts, lorries, and other
vehicles for New South rVahs, whilst Sydney
tradesmen are walking about idle or only working
half-time. Artizans from all the principal cRies
of the world soon found their way into the Vic-
torian workshops, and as every city has some
speciality the Victorian workman soon learned
to turn out American, English, and continental
carriages which even an expert could not tell
from the beet exported. A cute Yankee im-
porter soon observed this, and instead of compet-
ing any longer with the manufacturer bts
gave an order for 40 American buggies which wei e
made in Melbourne to his entire satisfaction.
America went through a very similar experience
in the days when she made her one disastrous ex-
periment in Freetrade, and the following extract
tells how the blessings of cheap manufactures fell
upon the States :—
American rail manufacturers in 1842, under Promotion,
were making iron rails at 50 dollars per ton. At ibat time
it was thought advisable to cui cfE the Protection tariff
upon that article. As soon as the ports were open, Eng-
lish cone petition forced the reduction of the rails until
they were sold at 40 dollars per ton, at which the Ameri-
cans were not able to compete, cansequently they closed
their rail works which threw a great number of men out
of employ ment, and these bad to be kept in food and
clothes somehow or other. Further, as the demand for
American manufactured iron became less and less, the
bias's were put out and furnaces closed. Here again a great
number of men were thrown on the mercy of the world
to support themselves and families as best they could,
and all on account of the cheap competition of English
dealers. And every unemployed man, it should be re-
membered, is a tax upon every employed man. No
sooaer, however, were the American masters ousted from
their own markets, then the rails began to rise in
price, and in a very short time they rose to 50
collars per ton, the same as they were before under Pro-
teolio-, with this disadvantage that their own people
were iole, their industries were closed, and their money
goi og out of the country to the grim satisfaction of the
English maker, worker, and dealer. But the curse did
net rejt these. The price of rails got higher and higher
t nd higher still until it reached the enormous price of 80
do lars per ton. It is estimated tbat within four years
the Americans paid to the English manufacturers,
£600,000,000 over and above the original pries for which
they themselves bad manufactured them.
That was over 40 yea s ago, but to this day the
Foreign trade economist still points to the good
oil times when iron rails went down in the States
to 40 dollars a ton under the cheapening influence
tf Freetrade —and about the after consequences he
says nothing at all. Freetrade statistics am
always based on the prices at which foreign goods
were sold when the struggle for the destruction
of native industries was still in progress, and the
tremendous rise in the price of these same foreign
goods the instant the local manufacture had gone
under and local competition was killed, is never
even mentioned. —Yours, &c., A Melbourne
Workman
+
Kmitsfcrd In Insurrection.
The public political calamity whose name is
Knutsfqrd has apparently resolved to make
things sultry in Queensland by way of repaying
his ardent grudge against MTLWRAiinand his
Nationalist following. Accordingly he has inti-
mated that he does not see his way to “tends*
any advice to Her Majesty ” concerning the
Chinese Restriction Bill lately enacted by the
Queensland Legislature; and this measure, which
was passed with the almost unanimous approval
of both Houses, and in obedience to a popular
demand supported by the voice of almost every
living Queenslander, has been practically abolished
by the muddled intellect of one ignorant politician,
whose knowledge of the colonies and their wants
is based oa the fact that he once called in at Malta
and on another occasion took a passing glance at
Heligoland. Chinese cheap labour, Chinese dirt,
Chinese leprosy and immorality, and all the other
foul concomitants of the Mongol are to remain in
Queensland in order that one small and stupid
British nobleman may feel better, and miy repair
tl dignity which was so woefully broken up by
the episode of the Gayundah, by Kitts and the
boots, and by the contemptu ms rejection cf Police
Officer, Blake The chief reason assigned for this
Ed of foolish absolutism is that the Bill must be
altered so as not to interfere with certain “ negotia-
tions now in progress,” but in what sense it must be
a terei is not explained, and as for the negotiations,
in all probability they wil' last,after the usual fashion
of British and Chinese negotiations, until the Great
Wall crumbles away, and the grave o! Li Hung
Chang has be en obliterate d and forgotten, and over-
grown with the tea plantand othera?ricultural pro-
duce of the Flowery Land. If Lord Knutcford and
the ether hereditary beadles cf the Salisbury
Cabinet, imagine than Queensland is likely to wait
until the weary round of notes and protocols and
minutes has at last ended in the customary reso-
lution by the Circumlocution Department, to the
effect that three centuries of diplomacy and a ton
of wasted foolscap have left the Chinese pro-
blem just where it was before, they will ex-
perience a rule awakening comiared to which the
Ki^ts-Mte grave concussion was not worth men-
tioning. The Chinese question is assuming tre-
mendous proportions, and the National party in
Queemland’is not gilted either with patience or
needless reverence. The rejection of the Mongo-
lian Restriction Bill is already pr.ducing ominous
results, of which the following- from the cable-
columns cf the Sydney Telegraph— is the first
and most prominent:—
J.ONDON,. Friday.—At the annual meeting yesbtrfay cf
shareholders in the North Australian Mining Compiny the
report showed that the operations of the company during
the year had been profitless. It was decided to anticipate
the colonial Anti Chit ese legislation by importing large
numbers of Chines a to work the mines.
If this intimation means that the Queensland
ports are to be used, by the special nleesing i f
Knutsforh and in defiance of the fixed resolution
of the whole nation, as an outlet through which
Australia is to be flooded by indented Chinese
labour, it only remains for the Northern eolen/ to
throw the Chinese immigrants and the elaborate
document of the Colonial Office together into the
Pacific. With MTlwraith at the head of £ flairs


EN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFICE
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Account Book Manufacturer, &0., &c.
Maclardy’s £5 Box of Stationery a speciality .
Send for List of Contents.
Note Address—
W. M. MiCURDV,
310 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
N.. 8 opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Cards
and Fancy Goods. Inspection invited.
such a course would almost certainly have been
adopted, and all Australia would gladly have
taken a share in the consequences, even if the
war-junks of Lx Hung Chang and his im-
perial lord were already looming on the horizon.
Whether Premier Mobehead will prove equal to
the occasion, events must decide. Once in a cen-
tury or mcra the moment comes when a great man
is wanted to steer a continent in a momentous
Crisis, and bow the crisis is close at hand, and, by
a chapter of accidents, Mobehead is at the helm.
*
Humanity not Wanted.
Police- Magistrate Lukin, of Rockhampton (Q ,)
has wasted himself in an effort to do some good to
his species, and an indignant Government depart-
ment has reduced his salary by £150 per annum as
a warning to him not to do it again. A few
months ago an early-closing movement was in-
augurated in the dusty city, all the drapery firms,
A nong others, binding themselves bo adjourn at a
fixed hour, and giVe their employes a little leisure
io look on the face of nature and to muse beside
the alligator tracks on the tepid river’s brim,
and otherwise realise that man was made for
batter things. And Rockhampton certainly is a
good and suitable place for an early-doling
movement, or even for a movement for closing
altogether and never opening again. It is a re-
gion where the gas-light brings in relays of horny
green insects that are too horrible to live and too
unpleasant to kill, and cohorts of scaly yellow
beasts with wings which sit down on you and
inake you think for one awful moment that you
have been roosted on by a red-hot, cast-iron
Animal from the bottomless pit, and fork-shaped
reptiles—bub the zoology of Rockhampton is too
extensive to be dealt with here. At all events the
early closing movement fell through on account of
one draper who went back on his promise,
and police magistrate Lukin, hearing of this,
expressed himself strongly in his private
capacity abont the soulless, heartless, bowel-
leas meanness and sordidness of the soft-
goodsman who, in the h’pa of selling a
few bulgy pants at a late hour, would prevent
hundreds of overworked employes from obtaining
a much-needed rest. Then someone sent in a
report to that eminent capitalist Premier
Mobehead and the Cabinet that a magis-
trate was cursing at large in Rockhampton,
and the next thing that happened was
an order to Mr. Lukin that he should remove to
Maryborough at a reduction of £150 per annum,
and should stifle his tendency to worry about the
wrongs of working-men and other low, common,
ordinary people unless he wanted a worse thing
to happen to him. Therefore it is to be hoped
that police-magistrate and fatherly old white man
LuKijN will confine himself in future to
fining drunks, and committing the unemployed to
prison for six months with hard labour on the
ground that they have “no visible means of sup-
port ” and no means of getting any, and sending
poor men whom the police have a grudge against
tp gaol, because they have their own property in
Ijheiir possession, and a stupid, unintelligent,
malignant “pop” says that it is “reasonably
supposed to be stolenand will abstain from
interfering with the salt of the earth as a respect-
Able, sane police-magistrate ought to do.
Of late little has been heard qf Parson Charles
Stbonp, the amiable “heretic ’who was cruelly
driven by the Presbytery from Melbourne (with a
thumping big cheque in his pockp 1 '), and who
returned in less than a year to found the new
bigotry-and-water religion of his so-called Austra-
lian Church. Divested of his martyr’s crown
Rey. Chas. Strong turned out to be a very
average kind of parson, and a searching enquiry
into his views has revealed the fact that he never
had any views and doesn’t know what he would
do with them if he had. However, Strong is
vaguely understood, by his select congregation, to
be' doing a great work somehow, and a younger
shepherd—the Rev. Somebody —has come over
from Scotland to help him. Two or three
Sundays back this same vice-chairman of the new
Church —playing the part of sympathetic critic in
his own weak imagination—told his beloved
brethren he was sorely afraid that Providence
couldn’t altogether approve of Socialism. The
assistant secondhand Martin Luther didn’t
consign Socialism to Sheol, after the ordinary
pulpit fashion. He didn’t point out to his dear
friends that Socialism consisted of blasphemy,
riots, drunkenness, and nitro-glycerine; but he
explained in beautiful drivel that Socialism did
not “ prepare men’s hearts for a life of unselfish-
ness,” while Christianity did. By way of illu-
strating the awful distinction between the two, he
said “ Christianity asks for the voluntary dis-
tribution of a man’s goods. Socialism would com-
pel a man to have all things common.” Now, if
■we accept the smug young parson’s definition of
Socialism—that it means nothing higher and
better than equal division of property —then, by
his own showing, Socialism is merely the
Christianity theory put into practice. We are
content to let the matter stop right there. It is
unhappily apparent that, although Christianity
has for ages been preparing men’s hearts for a life
of unselfishness, the men have always died before
the preparation was completed. In sporting
parlance the Christians never get thoroughly
“woundup.” Their clerical trainers don’t work
’em enough. They stroke, pat and tickle them,
and tell them how splendidly they ara going on,
but the Christians die with too much flesh on
them, all the same. Socialism, on the other hand,
oily hypocrites, or drivelling idiots. When the
would get us fit for a life of unselfishness
while we were yet two-year-olds. So would
Christianity if its self-styled professors were not
deputy-oracle of this “ broad ” Australian Church
beams upon a well-dressed flock and says that
“ Christianity and modern Socialism are in reality
thoroughly opposed ” he doesn’t know what
Christianity is. Christianity and the people who
rail themselves Christians are opposed, but the
honest Socialist is the real follower of Christ.
*
New South Wales is getting her name up among
the nations as a prompt and courteous corres-
pondent. Half-a-dozen official communications
from the representative of the British Admiralty
remain unanswered for two years, and only the
threat to remove the naval depot and with it an
annual expenditure of from £80,000 to £100,000 to
an adjoining colony procures a tardy reply. Letters
to distinguished French scientists visiting the
colony in a semi-official capacity, sent to the care
of the Colonial Secretary’s department, are opened
before being forwarded to their owners, and a
cablegram addressed to one of these gentle-
men is quietly laid aside for five weeks and
forgotten until the news it contains is actually
due in the ordinary course of post. These “are
merely trivial oversights ’’ the officials of the de-
partment consider, and the Colonial Secretary
himself does not deign to consider the matter at
all. Parliament might, however, do worse than
Rok into it. I-rss causes have made great quanela
before now. France declared war against Prussia
because King William turned his back upon
Bhnedetti on the parade at Ems, all other
cause of strife having been removed. France is
not likely to bombard Sydney because Sir Bene-
fice Pakkes or his subordinates have been uncivil
to the representatives of M. Pasteur If she did
we should be inclined to recommend the cession of
the offending department, chief and all. Who
knows what lessons of politeness and fair dealing
the Colonial Secretary might learn were his at-
tention forcibly drawn to the French method of
dealing with official correspondence ?
♦
The S M. Herald is, if possible, a little more
mixed and incoherent and incomprehensible in its
political economy at the time of full moon than at
other seasons. Just about the date when the orb
of night was at its brightest last month it started
out on the old subject of cheap food, and Issued a
cheering proclamation to the people of England
and New South Wales, setting forth that under
the benign influence of Freetrade they hadn’t to
pay so very much more for their provisions than
they would if Protection were rampant in the
land :
The competition for the supply of England reduces ihe
coat of everything to little, if anything, beyond that
which obtains in the producing country. And it is pre-
cisely the same with New South Wales. Though Victoria,
6a a larger producer of wheat and vegetables, ought to
have and occasionally haa certain things cheaper than
this colony, yet the open porta wh ; ch give us produce
from South Australia, from New Zealand, from Tas-
mania, from Victoiia, and even from California and India
on acme occasions, admit of the people here obtaining
food at a price little, it at all in excess of, and sometimes
lower, as at present in the case of wheat, than the price
paid by our neighbours over the Murray.
Tearful Moses ! Is this what the old war'cry of
cheap foed has come to at last ? The inestimable
blessings of Freetrade have left England and New
South Wales dependent on foreign nations for
their daily bread, while their own acres lie idle
and their agriculturists starve, and yet there is
joy in Paradise because food is only a little dearer
than it is in Protectionist countries which grow
their own grain and afford employment to their
own population. Things are not what they used
to be; times have changed, and the Herald has
changed with them. In the rampant days of old
that half-pound journal boldly assured the Free-
trader that his faith led straight to fiscal salva-
tion ; now it faintly consoles him with the promise
that if he hangs on he will only he slightly damned
in a partial sort of way, and bids him rejoice
on the ground that he might possibly have been
damned a great deal worse. He has got
to fall, but there is just a chance that he won’t
come down so heavily as might ha expected, and
anyhow he is at liberty to hang on as long as he
can “Private Smith,” says the hospital orderly
in his capacity as ghostly comforter to the soldier
who is dying fer the sake of his grateful country
at sixpence a day and liberal floggings and stop-
pages of pay, and a reasonable allowance of the
black-hole thrown in, “y’r goin’ to die and y’r
soul ’ull probably go to hell, hut anyhow I hope
you’re grateful to y’r Quien and country as gave
you this comfortable straw mattress to die on.”
And Private Smith, it appears, wan grateful
just as New South Wale 3 is grateful for the
Herald’s insurance that haying followed the
policy out of which that journal’s proprietary
realise some £BO,OOO a year in nett profits, it isn’t
so very much worse off than it would have been if
it had kicked the Herald and abjured that senile
paper and all its works.
If you are a member of Parliament, or
otherwise a man of cast-iron cheek, shave with the
Arbenyz’ patent razor.
J. B. Patterson has joined the Victorian
Coalition, uipe Walker. This stamps the Coalition
as a conspiracy.
It is now stated that the captain of the
Calliope served out a quantity of Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine to hi i men during the recent storm
at Samoa, and thus escaped a watery grave.
An effort Is being made to establish an
evening paper in Adelaide, to be conducted on
Democratic and Protectionist lines, and for the
“ cultivation of a broad national Australian senti-
ment.” The project has been vigorously taken up
by the trade and labour organisations, and, with
good management, should ha a remunerative and
otherwise successful speculation.
A woman last week sued her late em-
ployer, a Newtown (Sydney) hotel-keeper, for
some wages said bo be due to her for cooking ; and
alleged that she had been discharged because’ she
refused to “spit on the plates and rub them over
with her sleeve, which was always done in a
hurry ; ” and for “ refusing to pub tho bones takm
from the dinner-plates into the soup ” She didn’t
get a verdict. It must he admitted that she made
so desperate a bid for success that she almost
deserved to win, We only remember one parallel
instance : that of the rascal who dumped down
the six dead cats on the butcher’s block in the pre-
sence of that tradesman’s customers, saying ;
“ Them’s fine fat ’uns, but the boss says he can’t
let yer have any more till yer pays for the last lot.”
The most startling result of the Victorian
general election is the nu inner of Australian
natives who have been returned. In last Parlia-
ment there were only about six, whereas in this
there will be nearly thirty. Nearly all the new
members are natives with strong national feelings.
The A N. Association are represented as follows :
Mr. J, Kir ton, Ballarat branch ; Mr. F. Stuart,
No. 1 branch; Dr. Maloney, Hotham branch ;
Mr. G. H. Turner, St. Kilda branch ; Mr. R. W.
Best, Fitzroy branch; Mr. A. J. Peacock, Cres-
wick branch. “Jack” Gardiner belongs bo the
Carlton branch, bub does nob hold office. Un-
doubtedly one result of the election will be the
formation of a strong and compact Nationalist
Party in the Assembly. Victoria is on the eve of
a great Nationalist reaction.
The New South Wales Liberal (Foreign-
trade) Association has rejected from its plat-
forms the One Man One Vote, Land Nationali-
sation, and Payment of Members principle?.
These items are not mere platform planks,
they are the supports of the entire demo-
cratic structure—for what is the use of pretending
to make all men equal by giving each poor man a
vote in right of his manhood, and then (as under
the present electoral system) giving each richer
man a vote on account of every separate £lOO
worth of land he owns in one constituency and
another? Then as bo payment of members—why,
non-payment of members simply means the dis-
franchisement of the democratic party. Ministers
are paid, therefore members should be paid. Pay-
ment of members and One Man One Vote must
be the loudest war-cries of the National party ;
otherwise the National party must change its
leaders.
For overcrowding by hla eloquence (?) the
Church of St. Francis, at Melbourne, Father
Heffernan was fined one shilling. Wa presume
the Rev. Father will keep paying shilling fines as
long as the congregation overcrowds. It pays,
you know ! And anyhow it occurs to us that
there is something very illogical about this over-
crowding business. The congregation is supposed
to have rushed the church in order to save their
souls, and so long as they saved them it doesn't
matter much whether their c:ats were split and
their bonnets smashed in the process. And yet
the Government of a Christian country imposes a
fine of a shilling in order to compel a whole lot of
sinners to stay away and be d— d. Rather than
allow a few poor, erring mortals to be partially
stifled for an hour and a half it suggests that
about 100 of them should run the risk of eternal
perdition at the rate of eight lost transgressors for
a penny.
Alfred’s piper Is beginning to find lb
necessary to take notice of the beggar opposite.
Dalzlel, the owner of that Ineffably stupid
publication, Ally SLopbr's HalF-HolidaV, re-
cently refused £lOO,OOO for his paper.
How is this for a coincidence ? The
brigantine Parnell arrived at Melbourne a few
days ago consigned to Pigotb Brothers.
Life assurance companies have refused to
issue a policy on the life of Le Caron, the Fenian
spy. They class him as a “bad risk,” along with
Russian Emperors and that sorb of people.
Speaking of some recent arrests, the Syd-
ney Nook e says “ But Nemesis, in the form of
Sergeant Bartholomew Higgins, got upon the
track of the evil-doers.” Then Nemesis has the
brogue av Bally hooly ! Yerra !
Daring the heating of a case at Charters
Towers (Q ), in which some Ohows were interested,
their counsel, addressing the Bench, indignantly
exclaimed: “I cm assure you, your worship,
that among these poor, despised Chinese are some
of the very best men on this field.” “ I know it,”
replied the P.M., drily; “ibis only a few days
ago since that poor, despised party sitting beside
you now offered me £100 a year, taut I could not
see my way clear to accept it. He wanted to run
a fan-tan saloon."
These be thy gods, 0 Israel! Here Is the
verbatim report of a speech delivered several
weeks ago at York, England (to the students of
the local science and art classes), by Prince Albert
Victor, eldest son of the Prince of Wales, and one
day (so people say) to be King of England : —
11 lb gives me very great pleasure indeed to have the op-
portunity of being here this evening. I must thank the
dean and the committee of this institution—in fact, I
must thank you all—for the kind way in which I have
been received here to-night. It gives me very great
pleasure to think that this institution, which was so ably
begun, and which I hope will continue satisfactorily, had
the first stone of its present building laid by my father in
the year 1883* I may say that I have had the very great-
est pleasure in inspecting in a room upstairs several of
the works which successful students have accomplished.
I have also heard with great satisfaction that two of the
members of this institution were successful in obtaining
prizes in the national competition last year. I thank you
again. It gives me very great pleasure to bs able to dis-
tribute the prizes here this evening."
Why doesn’t Henniker Heaton, who prebends to
be loyal, lend this poor wretch his ghost!
Apropos of the Samoan tornado In which
six German and American war-vessels were
wrecked and 150 seamen drowned, and the
hysterical disposition shown by some. writers to go
into raptures over tho courage of Captain
Kane in taking his ship, the Calliope, out of the
harbour in the teeth of the gale, The Bulletin
would like to say that there is nobbing in the facts
so far known to justify hicih falutin comparisons
with Aginoourb, Creoy, and the Six Hundred.
As wa read the information to hand, Cap-
tain Kane found himself in a tight place and did
his best to get out of it. It may be that the
A,merioan and German captains who stayed in
harbour and lost their ships displayed the greater
courage. It may be that they had instruc-
tions from thair Governments to stay in
Apia harbour, gale or no gale, to keep within
ear - shot of Samoa in spite of murder,,
pestilenca and sudden death, and that with
a heroism composed of, two parts of the boy
who stood on the burning deck, and one part
of the Roman sentinel at Pompaii, they never
lost sight of the political aspect! of the situa-
tion. Of course this is only our narrow-
minded, cranky, mcharitable, disloyal, na'by,
mean, low, Radical, beastly view of what may
have weighed with the Garmans and the Ameri-
cans in letting their ships get wrecked and hang
the expense, bub if they are ’cute they will take
this viaw of it right iff whether it is correct or
not. At least it will entitle them to eisg “ Hail
Columbia ” and “ Waeht am Rhein ” as loudly as
the hysterical Sydney newspaper writers are try-
ing to sing ‘ Rule Britannia ” in honour of a
naval gentleman whose sole title to congratulation
may ha —we don’t say it is—that he knew when to
come in out of the wat.
The condition of the town of Waltham,
Mass , affords material for study both by the
sofclal and the political economist. Its history is
practically bound up with that of the great
Waltham Watch Company, which established the
nucleus of its now colossal factory there in 1853.
The town now has a population of 1(5,000, of whonl
2500 are operatives at the factory ; the balance of
the population, however, either directly or in-
direcily are supported by the operations of the
company. Frequently in Australia we hear that
Protection reduc as wages, increases the cost of
living, and debases the workman to the position
of a serf, bub the condition of the citizens of the
thriving city of Waltham and the operatives at the
factory gives a denial to all these statements.
We find that the average wage paid to male
operatives, including boys and learners, is a little
over £3 per week, that of the female workers £1
lls. per week. The average pay of the most 1
competent workmen is 16s. per day, and of the
best paid women 7s. per day. The rate of living
at Adams House and other boarding-establish-
ments is IGs. per week, and the bill of fare is such
as would certainly cost 25s. per week in Rceetrade
N S Wales. True, the hours worked are 56
par week, but then a number of holidays are ob-
served throughout the year, and at midsummer
the entire factory is closed for a fortnight at
vacation time. One-fourth of the married
employes own their own houses, the
value of the domiciles varying from £400 up to
£1000. Altogether a consideration of the present
condition of Waltham is an example to economists
of what may be attained under a wise fiscal policy,
coupled with combination and skill in manufac-
ture. The staple of the town is, of course, the
watches made by the company, and the fact that
their world-wide popularity is due to their cheap-
ness and excellence of manufacture, shows that
the payment of good wages to efficient operatives
is conducive to the welfare of even the most
gigantic bniiess operations where the production
of a cheap, saleable article is the chief desideratum.
There was a young woman of Sandhurst,
Who would face any peril a man durst;
She was braver than that,
For, although rather fab,
Yet she squeezed in her waist till the band burst.
CORRESPONDENCE
“Orlo Winsome” ; Weprinbyour lines, although
we don’t quite share your enthusiasm :
W.G.”: Altogether apart from the question of the
efficacy of capital punishment, The Bulletin contends
that it is the veriest hypocrisy to indict an abortionist
who is alleged to have committed murder in the exercise
of his calling, while at the same time all the most notorious
abortionists are allowed to advertise their unclean busi-
ness in a certain daily paper in terms which admit of no
construction other than the one which the abortionists
themselves intend shall be placed upon their impudent
notifications “A. Lewis”: The Bulletin has never
denied (hit personation at elections is a crime. You
write as though we were interested in maintaining a sys-
tem whioh has for years been used indifferently by all
parties in N.S.W. Personation must be stopped by a
system of registration of votes. At present the oclony
sanctions the most immoral form of personation—that is
to say, in allowing an allotment to personate a man....
“ Judex ”: Far better be a doctor than a journalist, if you
honestly like the study of medicine. Get your diploma
as a doctor first, anyhow; you can become a journalist
afterwards, and be all the belter a journalist because you
are a doctor. Journalism is anybody's profession. Lots
of men and women among the outside public can write
just as well and forcibly and interestingly as the pro-
fessional journalist. We don’t think that there is any
journalist in Australia, except, possibly, the editor of the
Anars, who makes much over £lOOO annually by his pro-
fession. A thousand a year is one of the prizes of jour-
nalism, but there are very few level-headed doctors who
cannot make that amount. We can name a dozen doctors
who make over £3OOO a year, and we know one or two—
leavingout Mr. Fitzgerald, who nukes£lo,oooand deserves
it—whose incomes approach twice £3OOO annually.
A doctor has to work hard ; a newspaper man’s file
is too often the life of a slave “ J.L.P.”: Thanks
"H. W. Haines”: Thanks “Ralph Liddle” (Dele-
gate): We hope soon to print “H L.": Nothing in the
goat incident—“ Scone”; Try again “A.S." (Wel-
lington, N,?.): Poem received. Thanks “Amateur'-
(Young): Nothing in the item—bar spleen “Sub
sqriber”: Your gibberings have gone into ths w.p.b
“Echo”: The hustings is an institution which was
abolished in Victoria 20 years ago. The Viototian law
does not expose a candidate at his nomination to an
assault by rotten eggs....“ James A.M.”: Verses not
suitablethey are defective in construction, but
contain some good ideas neatly expres-ed. Study care-
fully the rules of versification and then try again....
“ Jim the Penman ”: Thanks. The grammatical blunders
of papar you mention have no interest for us... “ S.H.C ":■
Clipping received “R.K.”: The result of the Hop
Bitters Word-Competition not yet announced —so we are
t01d....“J-.O.”: Received....“A. Cook,”: Next week,
“Shellback”: Thanks “Cornua”: Yes, we are ready
to do so “Victorian Subscriber”: Thanks.... “Cor-
respondent" (Bourke): Next week “Tcnax”; Will
look it up for you “Native” : Thanhs “1).A.C.":
Thanks....“C.L.” (Glen Innes): Sample of ghastly Scrip-
tural intolerance to hand, with thanks....“ A.W.W.”:
Will consider “ James Titus, A. 8.”: We cannot spare
time—anyhow, we. haven’t a file. You'd better writs to
Lloyd's.. ~. “A. J.T.” (Brisbane): Thanks ; will use
“T,.G C.” (Croydon): Thanks lor letter and reminiscences.
“ lambus ” (Muttaburra): Your yarn will loom up in
print in due course “ Fantastic Toe ” (Collarendabin):
Thanks. That kind of joke has been used rather often,
though, and it isn’t as good as it used to be “A Corres-
pondent ” (Bourke): “ Lfnit,” wt en he reads the report of
the meeting held by the soi-disant “Liberal” Political
Association of New Sputh Wales to discuss a proposed
platform, will be able to j udge how much real support
land nationalisation and democratic electoral reform will
receive from the White Waistcoat Parly. Toe latter has
just now got a loan of “Unit, " Cotton’ and Co. Labour,
as well as goods, must and will be protected in the long
run: and we started about protecting labour when we ex-
cluded the Chinese “Frank C.” (Camden): Under
thoughtful consideration “Anglican” (Sydney): No
fear of Archdeacon Farrar accepting the Bishopric of
Sydney. In his case it would really be “going Farrar
and faring worse.” “A. M'Kye”: London Police
News— we eav the japer, but don’t remember the date.
“HB.” (Brisbane): Some years ago Patkes, for poli-
tical purposes, in a speech delivered at lyiama, declared that
a Fenian conspiracy existed to bring about a R C- revplu-
tioh in N.S.W. The romance is now briefly known as the
Kiama Ghost “Henry Stevens” (Merri Merri Creek):
(1) Either Dymock, Book Arcade, Kkg-street, Sydney, or
Annus and Robertson, Market-street, Sydney, oouid
supply you. (2) Send to C. Skelton Yuill, manager, Orient
Line, Pitt-street, Sydney....“Shel.back” : Your sugges-
tion is a good one. Why not send it to the secre-
tary, Seamen’s Union ? “ The Cloture ’’: Next week...
“Wasp”: It would not be our “loyalty,”-but our fine
discrimination of what is. and what is not, poetry that
would hinder us from publishing your “ verse.” We give
your stanza, however, just to show our readers what we
have to put up with in dur daily f truggle to keep the roof
of our head from falling in. Hoop 1 Let her go, Gal-
lagher 1..
JOHN BRIGHT, OB. 27th MARCH, 1889, ART 78.
“ Just for a moment let the bickerings cease ;
O'er all the Empire wide, let there be Peace !
Honest and faitoful, champion of good and right;
No truer man, in all the realm, than BRIGttT 1
“ Bright was his name, Bright is the path he trod,
Right was his motto, justice was his God 1
‘ la die malo,’ Imperial sons draw nigh,
Greet j e his memory ; like him, live and die !
Hold to the Right 1 Then when the race is run,
The course well finished—Britain will mourn A SON I " j
Australia, loved land of the free,
The dhy is fast approaching
When thou shalt unitedly decree
. Against England’s despot ruling;
When the bright blue flag
Of a republican regime
Shall rise gloriously above England's blood-stained rag,
And we shall no longer be ruled by a queen.


Honford’s Acid Phosphate.
IMRARTS NBW ENKR9Y TO THE BRAIN,
Riving the feeling and sense of increased Intellectual
Power.
Uniform a specialty ; quality, fit and comfort. Mudi-
man. "MtTailob " IB! King-street, Newtown.
Diogman’s electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market'
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of “elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case of cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de laines, and the finest fabrics. It re-
moves paint and grease-stains from clothing with
very little labour; indeed, if it will perform half
what is claimed to be within range of its powers,
Its introduction Into our households will be quite
s startling domestic revolution.
Sundry Shows.
„„ nnvAL.—" Lady of Lyons ” p. 14.
ThSATI „ Madame Midas ” „
The Glass of Fashion’* „
5W .-Pain’s Fireworks
gJ'otchoßAsfA.-The Battle of Gettys-;
b«rg ■••••
w 0 wf ite the drought seems to hate
ken up into small fragments and dust, and the
diences which patronise the shows of Sydney
have two pounds of thick mud hanging on to each
iT t Everybody is accidentally sitting down on
clod the size of a large sparrow j there is an
a , ur 0 { damp cotton umbrellas in the pit and a
° ell of damp, broken-backed parachutes in the
sm jlery ; the noblemen In dress-suits who lounge
fn the boxes are surprised to find two quarts of
muddy water in their pockets when they didn’t
know it was there, and the ladies, as they shake
themselves before sitting down, unexpectedly dis-
lodge a large plateful of what looks like pea-soup
from the top of the hen-coop which they wear be-
hind them. Everybody feels like a cold, moist
serpent which has swallowed a ton of sea-water .
everybody hates his neighbour because he thinks
he is drier than himself ; everybody has murder
in his heart and a prigged umbrella in his hand,
and the ten commandments have gone out to bo
washed. # >
Under these sad and clammy sircum-
stances, Mr. Warner revived *'Drink” for two
nights only at Sydney Royal, and made a great
bib as usual in the part of Ooupeau. Most people
neemed to envy Ooupeau because he was too hope-
lessly tight to know anything about the mud and
, yain an d the piece went well in consequence,
though, in view of the weather, “Faust,” with a
she of without any lid on it in the last set, might
nnuHihlv have been more suitable. A compara-
tively dry “ Hamlet ” followed on Wednesday.
To-right (Thursday) Mr. H H. Vincent takes a
hpnefit in the ill-used “Captain Swift,” and the
it jjajy of Lyons ” and “ Macbeth ” fill up
Fr-’day and Saturday. That old but never-
forgotten favourite, Miss Augusta Dargon, will
apP°ar as Lady Macbeth, and there is reason to
hope that the season will end with eclat.
*# * *
The “ Glass cf Fashion ” has kept np well
against the prevailing dampness at Sydney
Criterion, but next Friday it will be smashed and
the pieces carried away. The “ Two Roses ” will
follow, In which comedy Miss Lilian Gillmore’s
bright smile will shine in front of a clammy and
ffog-like public. “ Madame Midas ” howls along
the path of sucebssat HerMajestyV, and “Romany
Rye” is in prospect. Mr. Geo. Sinclair, one of
the ba v ikne remains of the Italian Opera Company,
wiU appear as the principal hoarse Villain and
leading bass malefactor in this drama, and Madame
Fannitza, a dealer in magic and spells, who Is
generally described as the “ veiled witch of Atlas”
because she was born in Constantinople which
isn’t in the same continent as Atlas, has been hired
at enormous expense to fill a prominent part.
This lavish advertisement is given in consequence
of the lady having called at this office and fixed us
with her eye till we had to write the above para-
i?rBipht
6 #* # *
Last week The Bulletin felt called upon
to remark that “ Madame Midas ” would appear
to greater advantage if a certain amount of the
demoniac profanity employed by Mr. Edward
Vincent in the capacity of Slivers—a dismantled
human fortress with a limb made out of the
mournful cypress tree—were cut out The fol-
lowing wildly grotesque epistle has since come to
hand—presumably from the half-gentleman with
the weeping-willow extremity—as a protest against
our remarks: —
Dear Mr. editor, -it aint Usual in a ole siner to go
for to apolagise, which I aint, for his choic langwidge.—
canticered eggeasspErashun makes a ous iritabel and the
engllsh langwioh perwidses words I used to find wun-
derlul usful to perwent me bustin’ of my krust before I
seen the bulletin a ahowin of more respektable methuds
ov lokal I vofanity. Now i axes yer mister edilur if A
knowin’ ole cove as Fixes his eye on a dame, with nothin
in it—as nobody nose leastways—aint a Rite to get a bit
rusty when he cant get ’is ’and on it and a gal—a'ussy
mindyer wontsell bout fare and hones’—gals nosenutben,
they aint up to bisness, ccs why? they is so contrairey.
I wanted that claim—l wer on the spot fust, an’ if yoo’d
bin ther insted Of me yoo d hav swore too sumthing offal.
Now, Mister edDitor—You sro in fer to ware a woodden
stump an’ other Wurries with bush Fixins an’ only one
Arm that wont reach to knock a moskeeter off yer other
foot an’ see if it don’t afekt yer pierty some. Yer objek-
shuns cum to hand round a whisky hotel i gets in— an’
them remarkses cf yer s set me a worritin fearful, an’ sine I
seen ’em i only use bad swearin when no 1 but my pal. Is
Round, an’ he don’t count. Its wery injures to leve it orf
euddin, an’ i’m afrade that air gum timber toe will peg
Out an’ pint to ’eaven afore I’m cured without havin’
awful fits arter. But, all the same, i gives hup my olames
to blastin’, an’ all that blastin’ in the dames has left Of
me is—Yours, trooly,
Slivers,
(Mining Agent, H.M. Tneatre, Sydney).
#* * *
“ Booties’ Baby,” a long, thin, flabby-
daddy infant born of Mrs. Stannard’s innocuous
story, was produced at Melbourne Bijou last
Saturday, the unutterable misery of this occasion
being intensified by the presence of the vice-regal
Person and his suffering suite. What plot can be
discovered in the original “ Booties’ Baby ” is now
dragged through three acts of drivelling chatter
and Irresponsible inanity and described as a charm-
ing comedy. “ Booties,” otherwise Captain
Ferrers, is a military officer of unprecedented
respectability of character, upon whose bed the
ill-used wife of another man in buckram leaves
her baby, together with a note betraying that the
infant has been confided to the wrong man’s care.
*’ Booties,” without troubling to rectify the
mother’s error, adopts this baby as his own, after
the usual custom of military bachelors and other
professional philanthropists. In due course he
falls in love with the lady who placed such a
pleasant surprise on his feather pillow five years
before, and she finds out for the first _ time
that “Booties’ Baby” is her child. A simple
inquiry at the barracks, in person or by deputy,
would have enlightened her on this point any
time during the intervening five years, but the
fond mother preferred to remain ignorant, so that
she could indulge in a maudlin soliloquy in the
second act. The wicked real father is killed in a
ridiculous steeplechase that transpires behind the
scenes, after which Booties is supposed to become
the step-parent of his daughter by adoption. This
all-pervading character is fitted in the first in-
stance by a sweet-faced baby who contributes the
one touch of nature to the show. Afterwards it
grows into a scraggy, unlovable darling of abnor-
mal intelligence and unknown age, supported
through a very trying part by a pair of emaciated
bandy calves and a couple of nubbly knees. Mr.
St. Maur plays Booties in his usual gentlemanly
manner, and perhaps no other actor in Australia
could be so little of a nuisance under the same
conditions. Miss Lucia Harwood is emotional and
interesting as the Baby’s maternal relative
whereas the real Pa is an attitudinizing villain who
might possibly make a hit if they gave him a dark
lantern and let him play Guy Fawkes. Four
other officers and gentlemen loaf around in a semi-
circle and let off feeble remarks through all three
acts, but one of them can’t let off very much be-
cause his voice has left him. The unconventionally
graceful Miss Emma Temple doesn’t trouble to
throw necessary feeling into her small part, and
Mr. Fred Cambourne depicts drunkenness with
such an elaboration of art that a sober spectator
might go outside and get speechless in half the
time. A couple of other ladies who can act a
little are supplemented by another one who is un-
derstood to be making her first appearance in Aus-
tralia. If she has previously appeared
other country she was probably suppressed by
Act of Parliament. “ Booties’ Baby ” was drama-
tised by Mr. Charles Bradley, a persevering
author who has a tremendous literary atrocity to
answer for.
** * *
Things woke np again at the Royal on
Saturday, when an excited multitude received
“ The World ” with more shrieks of approbation
than ever. In the course of its gorgeous eight
acts every known calamity befell most of the
people on the stage, and within a few minutes of
closing time the audience endeavoured to enjoy a
calamity among themselves. A stampede from
the stalls was followed by such a roaring rush of
humanity from the upper galleries that to the
peaceful denizens of the dress-circle it seemed as
PHOTO. BY WALKER, LONDON.
MISS PHYLLIS BROUGHTON,
(THE ENGLISH ACTRESS JUST AWARDED £10,000 FOR BREACH OF PROMISE OF MARRIAGE.)
though the whole Universe was crumbling to bits.
As nothing dropped down on anybody it next
seemed that the situation was destined to be
burnt to ashes, and with a view to dodging what-
ever was about to happen anyhow the more
prudent among those present made for the
outside track and then earnestly exhorted the
other people to keep their seats. The trouble
was all over within 15 seconds, but during
that brief space of time it was evident that when-
ever an earthquake or fire shall overtake a crowded
theatre, the women of Australia will get a lot the
worst of the fight for life. Meantime, The
Bulletin would point out that the proper course
to pursue, when you are surrounded by an in-
visible peril, is to cry “Keep still 1” in a cheery,
encouraging tone, and then secretly slope with all
possible despatch. Mr. Bland Holt’s company
know “ The World ” well, and do their business
effectively. In particular Miss Kate Bishop and
Mr. Albert Norman gave a strong scene, despite
the panic interruption, and Bland Holt won their
hearts with his Moss Jewell as of yore.
*# ♦ *
A revival of “Pirates of Penzance” at
the Princess’s, in order that Mr. Walker Marnock
may sicg “his Celebrated R6le of the Pirate
King,” only serves to strengthen a general opinion
that Mr. Marnock is too heavy and magnificent for
this life, but would fill a long felt want in the next.
Comic opera, probably, is not this gentleman’s
forte, and he has a celebrated roll in his voice
which becomes wearisome as time goes on. Mr.
Leumane returned in fine voice on Saturday, but
in several other respects the Pirates showed a fall-
ing off from previous records. It was followed
by “ Charity Begins at Home,” a delightful little
thing which is not as funny as it might be, and
for which a good many people didn’t care to stay.
“Yeoman of the Guard,” with Nellie Stewart
back at the head of affairs, is to happen as soon
as possible.
“ Men and Women ” wai set np at Mel-
bourne Alexandra on Saturday, but a scarcity of
murders and other acts of violence in this drama
is not counterbalanced by anything worth men-
tioning except a dog-cart and a racehorse. Some-
times the leading characters take a pull up the
river in a beat which is pushed along by a pole,
and occasionally they elope together and clutch
hold of somebody by the shoulder and things like
that; otherwise, “ Men and Women ”is a feebly-
constructed work dominated by a villain in a false
nose, and a heroine who rides the winner of the
Derby side-saddle. Mias May Holt, the authoress,
and Miss Lily Dampier play important parts in
large capitals, and Mr. Edmund Holloway takes first
honours as the heavy father of one of those irrepres-
sible ladies. The absence of Mr. Alfred Dampier’s
name from the two last bills is reducing business
at the big house. Nevertheless, a fair crowd rolls
up and the gallery boys get an ample sixpenn’orth
of scenery and effects.
** # *
At the Opera House there Is a steady
demand for “ Richard the Third,” and a growing
disposition to cheer Mr. G. O- Miln along his
legitimate way. On Saturday night that whole-
hearted performer came before the curtain to
announce that he intended to sink the liberal
profits of “Richard” in the production of his
next play, and so on until his final show, the
profits of which he will presumably lavish upon
himself. Already the crook-backed Book is run-
ning a third week, and if he dies in earnest on
Friday it is intended to bring our old friend,
Julius Caesar, E q., to the front on a scale of
splendour calculated to make the bones of that
ancient Roman rattle with amazement. Mr.
Miln plays Marc Antony, and he is expected to
orate over Caesar’s gashed remains in a way that
will uphold his reputation of being one of the
cleverest lecturers and best speakers of this de-
generate age. Americans used to call Mr. Miln
the Ward Beecher of the West.
#* # #
That other gifted cousin, Mr. Frank Lin-
coln, came back to the Athem«um on Saturday,
like a bridegroom out of hia chamber when the
bride is behind him with the fire-irons. He
sprung fresh wheezes upon them of an excruciat-
ing character, until they had to hold their sides,
while they encored with their feet, and rolled
them under their chairs with a new and original
sketch,
** # #
Mr. Wyberb Reeve has been performing
at the Adelaide Royal to a selfish and ungrateful
public, who have been slow to show their appre-
ciation of his very excellent Affable Hawk in
“The Game of Speculation.” ‘ The Woman in
White ” has also been dragged on with Mr. Reeve
as Count Fosco. Williams on, Gamer and Mus
grove’s new dramatic company, ex Gazoo, has been
landed in the holy city, and open there at Easter
in “ The Silver Falls.” Hicks’ coloured gentlemen
commence presently at Garner’s Theatre, and
Wirth’s Circus pays a visit at an early date.
*# * *
Miss Ethel Grey Is making arrangements
to obtain the lease of a Sydney theatre, and in-
tends bringing the refining influence of woman-
hood to bear on the coarse and undermining details
of theatrical management.
*# * *
Of 612 ladles who fainted in theatres last
year, 609 flopped into the arms of gentlemen, and
the other three convulsed on the floor. The three
who struck the hard boards do not intend fainting
again.
*♦ # *
Signor Nlcollnl does not sing with his wife.
He is her devoted caretaker. He watches to pro-
tect her from draughts the instant she quits the
stage, watches that she does not talk between the
acts after the carmine is laid on her lips, keeps in-
trusive bores away, and is attentive to all those
whom she wishes to treat as friends. If her throat
is parched, he drops water down it. He sees that
the water which is to wash off the face-pigments
is the right heat, and oversees the make-up
operations; and all this quietly, affectionately,
and without fuss. If Patti were in the hands ofi
an old nurse she could not be more tenderly used.
When her gratitude wells over she stands up.
takes her husband by the hand, and lowers hep
head, the top of which he kisses, the face nob
being in a state to be kissed. He does not strike
one, he is so unassuming and untheatrioal, as
being the husband of a star, or a professional
tenor.
** # *
A barrister of an eminently practical turn
of mind has drafted the following synopsis of
British law as commonly rendered on the stage ;
(1.) That if a man dies without leaving a will, then,
all his property goes to the nearest villain.
(2.) Bat that if a man dies, and leaves a will, then
his property goes to whoever can get possession oil
that will.
(13.) That the accidental loss of the one copy of a
marriage certificate annuls the marriage.
(4.) That the evidence of all prejudiced witnesses
of ehady antecedents is quite sufficient to convict the
most stainless and irreproachable gentleman of crimes,,
for the committal of which he could have had no
possible motive.
(5 ) But that this evidence may be rebutted, year®
afterwards, and the conviction quashed without
farther trial, by the unsupported statement of the
comic man.
(6.) That though the children of the aristocracy
are almost all stolen in infancy they can always get
back their property when, 25 years afterwards, an
old woman whom nobody ever saw before brings in a
girl sft. &in. high, and states that she is the real
heiress.
*# * *
Oar old friend, Frank M. Clark, waa to
make bis appearance at the London Pavilion a
few weeks back. They billed Frank as “the
popular Australian comedian and vocalist,” so he
will probably return to us as the “ Distinguished
English Artist.” Frank is bringing over several
novelties almost immediately.
*# * *
Mrs. Stevena, about the funnleat old
woman on the London stage, is about to retire
from the purfesb on the modest competence she
has earned.
## * *
Mr. George Musgrove, trinmvlrator,
vainly endeavoured to return a ’orse to a dealer on
the ground that he “likes to have the best of
everything in the world.” Why, he has got tho
very best, hasn’t he—but we will spare her
blushes, George, by the way, “ prides himself on
having the best brougham horses in Melbourne.’*
One of The Bulletin staff possesses the leanest
dog in that marvellous city, anyhow.
** # #
That old Melbourne Identity who travels
around town with a microscope and telescope,
exhibiting the internal mechanism of a Hea, or the
glories of Jupiter, for threepence, has been fined
ten shillings for obstructing the thoroughfare, yer
’onner. He was fined under a bye-law of the
Council, which has permanently obstructed the
thoroughfare with a Town Hall portico, and
charged the ratepayers something like £15,000 for
doing it. Such is Smellbourne justice !
** * *
Walter Reynolds is touring the English
provinces with that remarkable and cdd produc-
tion “ Church and Stage.”
*# # *
Running away with Maiia Tempest cost
Mr. Laslie, the London theatrical manager, £5OOO
damages. The costs in the case were £2OOO, and
as Maria Tempest weighs a little over 9st. she baa
been worth to the gay Leslie more than her weight
in gold.
## * #
When the “ Mystery of a Hansom Cab ”
Company were playing at a Northern (Queens-
land) town they got the loan of a shapely horse
miscalled “Bones” for the cab business. The
horse was stage-struck and so pleased with his
“bit of fat” that he refused to leave the stage,
and at the end of a couple of hours had to be car-
ried off.
## * *
Lillian Russell, the well known opera-
bouffe star, is just now defendant in a remarkable
law-suit. Lillian, because her entrepreneur de-
clined to make her some concession to which she
thought she was entitled, with womanly ingenuity
but with unwomanly disregard for appearances,
refused to wear the padded tights that had there-
tofore given her limbs the rotundity and volup-
tuousness so attractive to the bald-headed brigade.
The entrepreneur expostulated and stormed, but
Lillian persisted in displaying her limbs without
the sawdust accessories, and gradually the audi-
ences grew as thin as her unpadded calves. Then
the manager “had the law on her,” and though
Lillian pleada that wearing sawdust calves is
prejudicial to her health and conducive to rheu-
matism, croup, heart-disease, yellow fever, lep-
rosy, to say nothing of the mange, tic doloureux,
“ the Cumberland,” neuralgia, hydrophobia,
strangles, and staggers, her case is in the hands of
a bald-headed judge and 12 bald-headed jurymen,
and her chances of a verdict are considered slim.
** # ♦
Sir Arthur Sullivan, it is said, recently
threatened proceedings against the Duke of Edin-
burgh for annexing an entire motif from hia
music. As is well known, the Duke is always
ready to annex anything, but as to Sul-
livan, he is not so guiltless of plagiarism as to
entitle him to cast a stone at anyone. “ Twenty
Love-sick Maidens We,” in “ Patience,” is note
for note, “Alas those Chimes!” from “ Mari-
tana “ The Policeman ” chores in “ Pirates,”
as already mentioned in The Bulletin, is an ap-
propriation of the old Liverpool hornpipe ; the
ghost music in “ Ruddigore” is to be found in the
“Colleen Bawn” scene in the “ Lily of Killarney”;
“Is Life a Boon?” in “The Yeoman of the Guard”
is “ Come back to Erin,” and another number in
the same opera is Bessie Bellwood’s “ It’s a
Thousand Pounds to One.”
#* * *
The attendance at the Sydney Cyclorama
is steadily increasing : last Saturday over 1100
passed through the turnstile.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
1b more H holesome than
BRANDT or WHISKY,
And la a
Para Refreshing Beverage.
Be Careful you obtain Wolitb'b.
“ Ladies, do yci want to be strong, healthy and beauti-
ful ? Then use Dr. S.ule’s Aireiioan Hop Bioteis.”
When next you bake try PenWls Snow white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Bona fide announcement. Highest Gash Price
given for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
Dress suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Re s jell-street Melbour
“ My Tailor,” 154 King-Street, Newtown,
h'm. Suits to measure for £3 3s.
D n't forget
PEPPER AND SALT
Dear Bulletin, —There waa one man In
Victoria last month who showed his downright
good sense. Of 1300 and odd applicants for rail-
way billets some were disqualified by age, in-
capacity, informality of application, medical in-
firmities, and impersonation. The noblest Reman
of them all, however, attempted to begin as he
meant to emtinue, and came up for his examina-
tion —they did not mince woi ds in the description
he came up— deunk. What trouble he saved him-
self by displaying his hand ! What lies in the
shape of false returns and other perjuries he has
evaded ! No need of sycophancy, kowtowing, hat-
touching or bowing and scraping ! No trials for
our friend now—trials of temper and trials for
manslaughter when he “ shust jifted right point
hard shtead of letlin’ (hi:), blash thing alone.”
All honour to the solitary scapegrace who was too
proud to sober up and pretend to be respectable.
Here’s to ye.— Scotty the Weinkler.
Some of the American manufactured
“bitters” are found to contain 47 per cent, of
alcohol. More chances for teetotallers to get
magnificently muzzy without breaking the
pledge
The peace that passeth all understanding
does not reign amidst the local dignitaries < f
Westport (N.Z.) just now; instead a homicidal
feud tills the air, and the country is trodden hard
by men going round with axes and looking for
gore And this is how it all came about. Admit al
.Fairfax and his squadron arrived at the coaly
little town, and while almost the entire population
mustered on the wharf acd its approaches to
cheer for the Admiral, and the Queen, and Eng-
land, Home and Beauty, and goodness koows
what else besides, the Mayor, and the town clerk,
and the foreman of works, and the Inspector of
Smel/s, the Dog-Tax collector, and all the other
cog wheels of the civic machine set cff in a
chartered steamer to convey the Admiral ashore.
The crowd on the wharf watched with breathless
interest the little craft reach the side of the giant
warship, then pause for a few minutes, and ahen
return shoreward. When the vessel had ap-
proached within half-a-mile o! the wharf the i x-
oitement rose to fever heat; cheer after cheer rent
the air, and as nearer and nearer drew the
steamer, louder and louder pealed the acclama-
tions. But presently a curious feeling spread like
magic through the crowd. Those on the steamer
did not respond to the enthusiasm on the shore.
What did it mean ? A second or two sufficed to
i how that either the Admiral was below sea sick
er that he was not on board, and neither was he.
When the Inspector of Smells and the other
potentates arrived at the man-o’-war they found,
to their horror and disgust, that the Harbour
Master and a few others connected with the
management of the port had quietly kid-
napped the Admiral, brought him ashore in the
harbour launch, landed the great sea-king at a
s ecluded part of the beach, and conveyed him to the
harbour offices, where a sehct coterie were drink-
ing champagne, while the Mayor and the Dog-
tax Collector and the rest of the authorities were
risking their lives on the surface of the great deep.
The poor Admiral denies that he wss aware of the
intended municipal demonstration in his honour,
but his Worship and the Inspector of Smells are still
sobbing down great hunks of sorrow and wrath
and decline to be appeased, and the Dog Tax is
all broken up, and is not expected to smile again.
* •
*
Duncan Gillies was fined In the Melbourne
City Court, the other day, for hawking bananas
about the streets and failing to move on with his
barrow when ordered
Maorilandera are reproached with lack of
energy in prospecting for vhe precious metals, but
there are great natural obstacles in the way. At
Feathe'etone (N.Z.) recently a prospecting asso-
ciation was formed and Messrs. Marsh and Tids-
well were solemnly sent forth into the wilderness to
boreforgold, or coal, ordiamonds, or other collateral
securities They have since presented a report.
The obstacles alluded to were encountered almost
at once when a misguided bull chased Messrs. M.
and T. up a tree. Marsh ascended first. He
attained an altitude of seven feet and hung on to
a bit of loose bark. Tidswell hung on to the
slack of Marsh’s pants The bull grouped
itself around and waited. The bit of bark and the
seat of Mr. M’s trowsers gave way simultaneously
and the prospectors fell on the bull, returning im-
mediately to Featherstone to write the report
whence these incidents are extracted. After re-
fitting they went out again, meeting—to judge
from the local penny dreadful —with ampler
success for we learn that they found “ a quantity
of mullocky rock and iron pirates which glittered
like a diamond.” In these dajs cf universal
shoddy, of leaden bayonets and lia swords, ibis
positively refreshing to meet an iron pirate.
Last wee k’a run <f the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary mine gave 114,091 oz. silver from 2739
tons of ore.
In The Bulletin last week was published
the statement of the Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany of New York for the 12 months ended
December 1888 The magnioude of this company’s
operations may be judged from the following :
On the 31st December last, the Mutual Life’s
policies in force numbered 158,309, covering in-
surances amounting to over £100,000,000 sterling.
The year’s income was £5,461,653 and the new poli-
cies issued amounted in sumi insured to more than
£21,500,000. The assets of the company, on 31st
December, 1888, are set down at the fabulous sum
of £26 267,115 6). Bi. Tue position of the com-
pany as a bonus-paving institution is forcibly pre-
sented. During 1888 no less than 67 death claims
were paid cn which the bonuses added to the
policy had more than doubled the original amount
of the insurance. With such a remarkable record
the advantages offered by The Mutual L fa of New
York—said to be the largest and wealthiest insur-
ance Company in the world—should command a
more than usually favourable consideration by
the public.
The Bulletin's “History of Botany
Bay,” which is the first attempt to sketch the
genesis of Australia from a democratic standpoint,
deierves a place in every library in the country.
Previous histories have eought to oast the glamour
of nuance over our squalid past, have endea-
voured to adorn the founders of British rule in
Australia with the laurel wreaths of meretricious
fame, and to place unworthy men on pedestals of
glory for the adulation of succeeding ages. But
the author of this History—nothing extenua'iog
and nought setting down in malice—has skilfully
stripped Australia’s past of thick stratifications cf
fiction, has swept away the murky cobwebs
which a century of human spiders, in the guite of
historians, have woven between these latter days
and the truth of the past. Apart from its poli-
tical value, as illustrating the origin of existing
political parties, it contains an enthralling story
for the general reader. Toe narrative is connected
and yet not tiresome, and vivid pictures of the
social life of early portions of the century are
sketched with faithful minuteness by a master
hand. Numerous satirical and other illustrations
relating to the text are to be found through this
interesting work, which is published at the low
price of Is., and is forwarded to any part of
Australia on receipt of the necessary amount in
postage stamps. The postage for N.S. Wa'es and
Victoria is 5d , for Qaeensland and New Zealand
lOd.
The Temperance orator rises to speak
Refreshed with a glass of good bitters ;
He curses the drunkard, degraded and weak,
And darns all those dangerous critters,
The “ moderate drinkers ” (if thirsty he feels,
The water-jug always is handy),
And in eloquent terms the apostle reveals
That bitters are better than brandy.
We also believe in the Temperance creed—
So, here’s to the total abstainer !
Than the worship of boozy old Bacchus, indeed,
No earthly religion is vainer.
The pubs, are a standing disgrace to our streets
As long as a grocer is handy ;
This life has its bitters as well as its sweet-
And bitters are better than brandy.
Dumpling Duncan, taka your hook,
Quick march, clear eff tha claim.
We’re glad to see, by hook or crook,
The traps have spoilt your game.
O, politician politic,
Vamoose ! you’ve got the shoot ;
So push your barrow, out your stick—
Too long you’ve borne bad fruit!
The Brickbat.
[SLUNG BY “TITUS SALT.”]
A schooner laien with dynamite broke up
the o'lher day on the Gippsland coast, and left its
desolating cargo scattered on the sands to he in-
vestigated by the customary agricultural galoot
whose first idea, on seeing anything strange or
unaccountable, is to heave half a brick at it. The
case was reported in due ciurse to the Govern-
ment, with a duly attested and properly stamped
declaration to the effect that, unless great velocity
were employed, Gippsland was liable to be blown
off its resting-place on the granite pillars of the
earth and the fragments of its population sent up
to be frozen hard in the inhospitable regions of
space ; and this document was duly initialled and
docketed, and then it was sent to the other depart-
ment to be entered, and she other department
sent it to the Under- Secretary to be minuted,
and the Under-Secretary laid it in front of
a Board which met once a month, and
in these and other ways the matter began
to I e regularly under the consideration of
the Government. After a prolonged interval a
man of erudition and research was despatched by
special broken-down hearse to see what could be
done, and this gentleman found about one-third of
the dynamite and blew it up, and then drew up
another document, which also gradually came to
be under the tired eye of the proper department,
to the effect that a certain quantity of explosive
matter was understood to be adrift on the high
seas. The proper department made a minute to
the effect that it would be unhealthy if a ship
chanced to run against this substance on the roof
of the uncertain deep, and the new aspect of the
case was laid before tha Board, which made an
ent yabatingthatitdidn’tknow what would become
of a vessel which met with such a disaster. The
HIS IDEA.
WESTERN BOY (fresh from the hack-blocks, on first seeing “ Our Beautiful Harbour"):
“SAY PA WHAT A LOT OF MEN WITH ‘TUMBLING TOMMIES’IT
MUST HAVE TOOK TO HAVE SCOOPED OUT THIS HERE TANK!"
matter was then placed in the hands of a com"
mittee, which drew up a statement setting forth
that no one could tell how it was likely to end,
and inquiring when it was probable that the
massacre would start ; and the papers were then
brought under the eye of the Cabinet, which
passed a resolution stating that it wasn’t able to
give any information, but that if any vessel
chanced to be blown up amid ruin and scatteration
an official statement of the circumstances should
be drawn up and deposited in pigeon-hole No.
9276 along with the report of the circumstances
which led to Junior Clerk Jones being audibly
blown up by the Board in minute No. 127,376 a,
The p ofessor, who had been entrusted with the
case in ins earlier stsgas, also handed in a docu-
ment of 176 pages, setting forth that the
dynamite would probably drift about in all
directions, and that it was most likely to be
met with when it was least expected, and
when nobody was even thinking about it, but
that it might possibly be seen before a vessel
drove up against it, and, on the other hand, it
might not, and, at all events, he wasn’t sure ; and
the Government experts who had charge of this
branch of the business addel a supplementary re-
port to the effect that if the casas were larger they
would probably be observed with greater readi-
ness, bub not being so it was very likely that they
wouldn’t —at least not at present. The Govern-
ment analyst also furnished an essay on the pro-
bable effect of concussion on the high seas, and a
clean copy and a precis having boen made of these
documents they began to come systematically
under the notice of the Government the first time
it wasn’t feeling too tired. At present a minute
is being gradually drawn up to the effect that the
Ministry doesn’t consider itself called upon to
feel sure what it ought to do next, and_ it is con-
fidently expected that tbii document will be ready
for signature In the course of six weeks or sr.
Edward Fogarby, a wild-looking human
clam who was repor'.ed to have reaided for four
years on a public ash-heap in the vicinity of
Mount Rennie (Sydney), and to have lived upon
a diet of rubbish for the same period, was brought
up one day last week and sentenced to two weeks’
imprisonment for having no visible means of sup-
port. Mr. Fogarty, on being apprehended,
pointed out that the ash-heap was his visible sup-
port and that it had kept him up for a long time,
and that he had reliable and honcurab'e means of
sustenance in the crusts and bones which he fished
out from among the dust, and he endeavoured to
demonstrate the absurdity of arresting him for
not having anything to live upon when he had
lived upon it for four years and more ; but then a
Bench isn’t logical and doesn’t travel on any fixed
rules. The prisoner was adjudged to have no
permanent abode, and it was all in vain that he
asked how a cove could have a permanent abode
when the police took him away from it just as it
was getting kind of established like ; also he we a
found guilty of having no deep rooted bill-of-fare,
and it was to no purpose that he rose excitedly
and stated that his bill of fare had kept him going
four years, and that he found it nutritious though
gritty, and that he didn’t mind having cinders
in his pie and old boots in his blanc mange,
and that he was going to keep on having his
cinders and his old boots as often as he liked.
What was the go:d of being a free-born British
citizen if a man couldn’t have his cinders and his
old boots? What was the me of the dashed
federation of the empire if a citizen was to be
hooked off his permanent ash-heap like this?
Didn’t the court understand the sacredness of
home ties that it should thus rend a white Austra-
lian violently from his dust-bin and sever him
from the pile of garbage round which so many
tender memories clung ? Was there any law to
justify the bleak spectacle of a gentleman being
tom out of his family residence in the cold hours
of the morning, and compelled to trot for a damp
police-station, and —and Mr. Fogarty was
removed at this stage of the proceedings, and as
he went down the passage he was still heard ask-
ing if it was nt c assary to be a bloated ruffian
bowed down by the weight of several billion tons
of stone warehouses and wharves and shipping in-
terests, and grey with meditation on ways and
means, before he would be safe to rest on his own
ash-heap undisturbed by the machinations of
police assassins and other public slaughtermen,
and demanding to know what was tte me of
cablegrams and A tfghan complications and Free-
trade and things if a honourable resident was to
be jumped about in this here offensive way—but
here Mr. Fogarty’s voice suddenly dropped into a
stifled croak for the minion of the law had thrown
him into a cell and looked the door.
9 • •
Hangman’s Creek Is a little tomcat and
billy gc at township which is situated very much
to the left of the great hereafter and within the
kick of a brown cow of the distant future. This
dercripticn may appear vague, but it is quite as
definite as the libel law of N.S.W. will allow.
Anyhow, Hangman’s Creek is tomewhere, if it
isn’t somewhere else, or there or thereabouts —par-
ticularly thereabouts. Its inhabitants spend their
time in turning over stones atd peering into hol-
low logs in search of gold which they never find,
and in rearing milch goats for someone else to
steal. Consequently, they are morose and reti-
cent in their manners and stare at all strangers
with vague, fishy-eyed suspicion. Goats are the
only public joy at Hangman’s Creek; they are the
pride and consolation c f the inhaliiants, and form
their sole luxury, their one object of veneration,
their comfort in the hour of sickness, and the basis
and corner-stone of their hopes tf a Hereafter,
The happiness of the denizen of Hangman’s Creek
is bound up and cemented in his goat, and that
animal is a light to his path and a rudder to steer
him over the stormy seas cf life. Goats form the
reotef all quarrels and all friendships, and the
mere swapping (f these animals constitutes a
species cf relationship which only some underhand
conduct in after dealings with goats is sufficient
to break. Questions relating to the ownership c f
goats are fought cut by tooth and nail contests, and
the citizen who goes under in the struggle is
regarded by the public eye as a crushed victim
who doesn’t possess any goat. Goats form tie
chief topic of conversation at Hangman’s Creek,
and consequently the man who doesn’t own one of
these animal encumbrances is looked upon with a
strange mixture of supercilious contempt and
imbecile wonderment, and is shunned as a dal;-
gerou3 character who may at any moment rise in
omicidal frenzy for want of a goat. The young
men of the district suff-r from few prominent
characteristics except that they have an avowed
aversion to socks, which they regard as effeminate
luxuries and things to be despised ; and it is
probable that the young women would entirely
escape observation were it not that the earth
shak s and the dogs runout cf the house’, and the
cats utter shrieks of alarm and canter for the
chimneys when they begin to sneeze The gins
of Hangman’s Creek sneeze more than any other
girls known to history, and their other peculiarity
is that they wear their brothers’ Wellington boots
when they go out shopping in the adjacent town-
ship. Occasionally the young men of Hangman a
Creek give what they call a “bachelor’s ball,
but what, in reality, is a sort of cress between a
railway accident and a Chinese funeral, but these
gatherings always come to an sbrupt and un-
timely end, for during the night the girls get bad
and sneeze the candles out, and then they get
worse and sneeze the roof off the ball-room, and
then they sneeze all at once and promiscuously
and in various directions and there is an
earthquake and a general blow up. After this
they start for home and sneeze down several
chains of dog leg fence, and finally they sneeze a
whirlwind and a cyclone, and the old people light
oat for the neighbouring hills. Just now, how-
ever, Hangman’s Creek is under the influence of
a new sensation, for the local pedagogue has
bought a telescope, and the men who used to talk
goat now talk telescope, and discourse about the
Milky Whey and the Dog Star and the Southern
Cross and other constellations, and plod about
looking more idiotic on their naked feet lh»n
usual. Also the small boys are on the verge of
revolution, for hardly a morning passes without
little Johnny Wiggins being soundly caned for
having made insulting gestures at little Tommy
Jackson two miles away, or some other youngster
being pounded for fighting in the next parish, and
a great cry of juvenile ferocity goes up for that
telescope. And on top of this Bill Hopkins is
waving two leg-of-mutton fists in the air, and
prophesying murder and gore because he was seen
through that infernal glass to kiss old Fergusons
daughter on a hill three miles off, and he swears
that though every goat in the township should be
offered up in one awful holocauit, he will have
revenge. Peace and holy calm have been inverted
and a brick put on top of them, and a deed of
blood will shortly be perpetrated at Hangmans
Cret k.


‘That famous old Sydney hostelrio, the
every other essential that goes to make » his?
tlaa? hoteli
Most and Chandon’s Champasnb.— Messrs. Moet and
Ohandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
champagne-producers in the world. Their Dry-
Imperial” 1881 vintage is the pure juice of selected
grapes from their own vineyards of 2500 acres In the
choicest districts of France. It can now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant In Australia. The Imperial
Crown Is In each cornel Of labali and.lBB4 branded or
cork and label.
Write for plana £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 86 Batburst-street, Sydney.
JOHN H‘EIAH & CO M
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers <t Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
IS*pag* Country Properties, farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &o.
15-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Till. ,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, No.
rsiatsd Uat sf B«slmeaa«s f*» Rsls luasl >bUb«
AH liUls posted Free ns appUeatloa*
Personal Items.
Forger Pigott wore an eye glass.
There are bat three Smiths in the H .use of
Mr Hartfh deputy-master of Sydney mint,
a grandson of Leigh Hunt, the poet.
T , Caron, the Fenian informer, is really
named Beach. It should have been Peach.
Bishop Neville, cf Dunedin, N.Z., is
married to a sister of Lord Brassty, and owes his
bishopric to his relationship.
Mix O RbII does nob consider lb necessary
a book on Australians as he regards us as
* Joto Ball apaida-dowu.”
Mr Whittaker, of the Melbourne Argus
ff made £20,000 by the land-bcom, and has
aoneto England with his young wife.
The Hon. Harold Finch Hatton, who was
* awning round Australia a while back, is likely
So 1° ouble for libelling Parnoll.
Mr. Percy Meggy, Secretary o! the N.S.W.
r Nationalisation Asscciation, was formerly
£Sor of t\e Bathurst (N.S.W ) Times.
Conrad Reeves, the mulatto Chief Jus-
tice of Barbadoes. has just been knighted. ( This
ii Salisbury’s method of squaring the black
man ” episode.
poor Arabi Pasha, the Egyptian patiiot,
nomolains that his incarceration at Cej loa is kill-
ing him. The climate is too damp, and he is tor-
tured with rheumatism.
The religious cranks cf Europe have just
discovered that General B. Boulanger is the Great
B astof the Revelation,.his initial and surname
in Greek characters making up the fatal 666,
The Pope, it is ctbkd, haa had faiatieg-
fit-a Poor old man! He has probably heard
that Abigail is to be publicly banqueted, and he
has read the nasty things said about himself by
Haynes.
Secretary Pulsford’a father had £3OOO a
vear as a political lecturer in England. Pulsford
“drafts” in N.S. Wales for a tenth of that
sum. And yet he claims that Freetrade keeps up
«=. The aggregate wealth cf the "Vanderbilt
family is £54 800,000 If kept intact the total
fortune will, at the end of 2o years-by the arith-
metical progress ion of compound mterest-abrest
reach £500,000,000. . ,
The late John Halfey, of Melbourne, left
£7OO COO Oa the death or re-mamage or his
wife a bouncing lady who always looks as young
Ts ever she car it is to be divided between his two
sons and one daughter.
Sir Alfred Stephen’s principal reason for
r signing his trustee ship of the N.S W. Nations
rilGrv is the appointment as trustees, without
previous Reference to him or his fellow trustees, of
Mesere. Wb.e and Ashton.
Oie of the Fairfaxes was lately In Bris-
bane Mr Ournow, editor of the SM. Herald,
was lately in Brisbane. There is only one morn-
imr daily m Brisbane. Two and two make four
S Brisbane and three and two make five,
Filter Ournow, of S.M. Herald, wts
rinca Wesleyan minister at Ipswich, Queenslarm,
for which district G. M. Reed, late editor o! N Z.
Herald and editor of the new. Melbourne even-
ing caper, was representative in the Qaeensland
Parliament, .
Lord Onslow, new Governor of N Z , is
bringing out his own wines and lagf r beer
ES'S* ho i. willioj to sell to Onslow
“dirt cheap.” ..
While the deaths of James Squire Farneli,
Thomas Holt, “Bob” Wisdom, and Tom King
*u a ™fc6list have plao* sof honour assigned them
n the annual obituaries published in London, the
name of “he late Mr. DAley is not mentioned.
Such is fame! , , ,
Qaeen Victoria. It Is cabled, has met
Queen Maria Christina of Spam, and they lava
beeii kissing each other. Queen Victoria has a
Sle face and Q ueen Oarisnaa has a black mous-
tache. “God Shave the Queen is now the
Spanish National Anthf m.
Alfred Bennett prints in his paper a cable-
gram stating that Henniker Heatons motion cf
censure upon the British Postmaster-General was
civS “amidst laughter.” From this we
aleue that Alfred doetn’t like Henniker any
more Newspaper proprietors generally case
down nasty bits about their pals.
Mortimer Menpes, the South Australian
auite a figure in London society.
b'A“ toowiSTdo 5. "or. the Au.tr.lmu
lav ” People are sick of a nation whose re pie
sen’tatives are such men as Salmon Wilson and
i icb ”so Menpes went “ home via J*P a °>
pots as a Japanese enthusiast and an authority
on the land of the Mikado.
Helen Mathers h writing an Australian
drama to first appear in Melbourne. Helen made
a hit some years ago by writing a popularization
of one of Rhoda Broughton’s novels, style and
London nnUtoSer. and doss he. financing tor her.
HeS hSi « «lber laking-m a Sp.er. nnd
Pondish way. . . . , ,
It has been remarked that Mr. Gladstone
nowadays hardly ever makes a speech withoui) re-
nowadays naru y he 19 no t long for
JSworld U true of the..eat
&h B ;“otyS m) T°fio iST.S'
stone is in the light of the
Zv* T& Vvif *•*’■ «>«'•
standing in his own light.
Rev W B. Boyce, who recently died in
sister to her own aunt.
There is a good story of John Mltshel
which L not to be found in hi. b.ographjr, ,usl
published. Money was being collected in New
York by a swindler on account of the newspaper
conducted by Mitchel; and when he cume to hear
of ib an editorial note was inserted in the paper as
a caution to the public. “ The young man,” the
editor wrote, “represents himself to be a son of
Jjhn Mitch J. With regard to that, wa can only
say that he must be illegitimate.”
The cableman tells na that the Doke cf
Buckingham is dead. Unlike his ancestor of
Crook-backed Richard’s time hs died with his
head on. He was a vat sal of Beacons-
field’s and figured as a member (without
portfolio) of the final “Dizzy” Ministry, a
concern which would have been all dukes if
it had lasted much longer. So much for Richard
Plantagenet Campbe 1 Temple Nugent Bridges
Chandoi Grenville Buckingham !
The original shareholders of Mount Morgan
goldmine were:—Mr. W K Diroy, solicitor,
Rockhampton, 358 331 shares; Mr. William
Pattisnn, grazier, Rockhampton. 125,000 ; Mr.
T S Hall, Rockhampton, 158,332 share*; Mr.
W. R. Hall, Sydney, 125,000 ; Mr John Wagner,
Melbourne, 29,167 shares; Mr. A. W. Robertson,
Melbourne 29,166 shares; Mr. O. C. Skarratb,
Sydney, 58,334 shares ; Mr. John Ferguson, Rock-
hampton, 116,667 shares. Total 1,000,000.
Houston, secretary of ths Irish Loyal and
Patriotic Union, who was the go-between of the
Times and Pigott, is the son of a police-pensioner,
DEAR OLD ENGLAND.
(PVERHEARD RECENTLY AT A CERTAIN “OPENING”)
LORD CARINGTON: “AND I SUPPOSE YOU ARE NOT SORRY TO GO?”
BISHOP BARRT: “IN MANY RESPECTS I SHALL BE GLAD TO RETURN TO
ENGLAND-TO AGAIN VISIT THE SOENES SO DEAR TO EVERY
ENGLISHMAN-AND I AN LOOKING TO ONCE MORE SEEING THE
BRITISH MUSEUM, THE TOWER, ST. PAUL'S WESTMINSTER ABBEY,
THE-THE"-
LORD CARINGTON: "THE LONDON GAIETY COMPANY! HOW I ENV
YOU!"
and six years ago he was a junior reporter. He
then got an appointment as a shorthand writer
and secretary to Mr. M Murrogh Kavanagh, the
gentleman without arms or legs, head of the Irish
landlords and founder of the Irish Land Corpora-
tion. He remained with Mr, Kavanagh for some
years, and finally was transferred to the office of
the Loyal and Patriotic Union, where he had
lately been appointed secretary. He is about
25 years of age.
Mr. Rawlings, who has recently come Into
collision with the NSW. Supreme Court ter hav-
ing, as alleged, practised as an attorney at Parra-
matta without authority, was. over twenty years
ago, one of the identities of Melbourne. Ile was
secretary of the Royal Society, and usid to dis-
course flippantly of the jawbones of Irish elks
and the vertebrae of extinct animals found on the
islandsof the Guano Archipelago. Hesat every day
on the Bench of the city court with the late Sturt,
P.M., and sent vags. and others to further the
interests of science by cracking diamonds in the
Melbourne gaol. Whether he’s an attorney or not
he knows a deal more about law than most lawyers.
POLITICAL POINTS
They are afraid in France that Boulanger
means to go Nap.
Altogether Vi do. i a has spent £8,000,000
on primary education.
The Victorian elections resulted in the re-
turn of 63 Ministerialists and 35 Oppositionists.
Melbourne Age has gob three libel actions
on its hanls, all entered by aggrieved candidates.
Mayor Harris’s retrenchments in Sydney
city expenditure have resulted in a saving of £350
a week,
One of the candidates for Brighton (Vic.)
advertised h;’s central committee-rooms as being
at Messrs. Peace and Joy’s Chambers, Blizabeth-
streeb, City. He did not get in, and peace and
joy know him no more.
A complaint is very properly made that
the returning-offio r at Bourke (N.SW) is an
officer of the local Freetrade Association.
Fourteen out of the 16 members returned
by North Queensland will go for the separation of
that portion of the territory from the control of
Brisbane.
John Jannery Davies is bo be recompensed
to the tune of £l6OO for hie valuable services in
connection with the Holt-Sutherland-Hornsby-
Casual Labour Board.
“ The Premier of Madagascar can neither
read nor writs.” That b-ing so he can’t send
letters to people saying that the other fellow is
“More popery than Fiscal.”
G. H. Rdd and Me. Hayes, of Sydney Ex-
change, went down Sydney Harbour in the Go-
vernment launch, last week. It is suspected that
their scheme was to visit Cardinal Moran.
After Mr. Frank Stuart (cf Lincoln and
Stuart, clothiers) had topped the poll for East
Melbourne, the mob shouldered him round town.
Meantime, poor old George Ooppia walked
moodily off the political stage te had held so long
without even the heart to taka a sympathetic
“ call.”
About 20 par cent of the man who tried
to climb the Victorian legislative poll wera
auctioneers and estate-agenti. None of them ad-
vocated Land Nationalisation—not exactly.
The Victorian Government netted £l3OO
in profits over the late election Twenty-six
candidates lost their “ pair of ‘ ponies ’ ” tbr .ugh
not polling one fifth of the winning number.
The late Sir James Martin, Sir Henry
Parkes, and David Buchanan, are the triumvirate
who first advocated Protection in N.S.W. Martin
is dead, Parkes “ratted,” but David carries the
flag as bravely as ever.
Victorians will be amused to learn that
Mr. Bruce Smith is now mixed up in a N.S.W.
Ministry, the head of which says, in a round about
sort of way, that he is in favour of the One M. n
One Vote principle, and of the abolition of property
suffrage !
A member of the N S.W. Government
said the other day that it was all vary well to talk
about Ministers getting £l5OO a year each, but, as
a matter of fact, when all official expenses ware
paid a mas was very lucky or vary mean if he had
£7OO left in his pocket-
Mr. George Hutchison, M H R , of Wan-
ganui {N Z ). has been lectodng in Eagland and
Ireland on Home Rule. He has completely re-
futed Carnarvon’s assertion to the effect that
“the Australians, to a man, are opposed to Homs
Rule, and m’ght be classified as loyalists.”
Ex Stationmaster Gcdga, of Windsor rail-
way smash notoriety, put up for Footscray (Melb )
at last week’s elections, and dropped his £5O de-
posit with a very sickening thud Gedge must
persevere, however, and he may yet tecome
Minister of Railways. Accidents will happen.
Last year ten persona died in England
worth £10,544,000. Seventeen other persons be-
queathed £8,500,000; nineteen left £7.000,000 ;
and 900 additional testators left behind them
£25,000,000 Each of these disposed of person 1
property ranging from the maximum £3,544,978,
to the m'nimum of £150,000.
Sjclney News, in reporting the Central
Cumberland personation case, sarcastically calls
the police-court hearing “ a meeting of Protec-
tionists.” The Bulletin begs to point out that
a meeting of Freetraders—l2 in all, with power to
add to their number —is now being held at the
Leprosy Hospital, Little Bay, Sydney.
One of the best unconscious jokes o! the
Victorian campaign was perpetrated by a West
Melbourne grocer, who chalked on the footpath
outside his shop the words :
“ Vote eor Dr. Maloney ”
And immediately under it ran the announcement :
“Eggs sold Heke ”
Marshal McMahon writes that in 1883 the
Comte de Chambord had the French crown within
his grasp, He wa l , however, dissuaded from
attempting a Legitimist restoration by foe
Comtesse, who having no children, and hating tl o
Orleanist princes, loathed the idea of her husband
ascending to the throne merely to make it secure
for his cousins.
The new Japanese Constitution is based
on the German model, Count I to, who reported
on the German, Italian, Austrian and British
Constitution?, recommending the former as the
simplest and best. Taa Count said that he had
“ to pass by the English Oonstituticn because it
was one of those things that no one can under-
stand.” Amen.
The withdrawal of Murray Smith from the
Sc Kilda election contest has made it evident that
Smi.h has no backbone left. It hao been dis-
covered that his eloquence is now more that of the
drawing-room than of the political platform.
Alas, poor Smith ! He mver was very Smithy,
and he has utterly un-Smibhed himself by living
in Hingland and going to Court,
The present Minister of Education ia
Queensland refuses to put in force the compulsory
clause of the Education Act of that colony. The
old difference between may and shall is once more
in the road. The people and Parliament meant
to have shall, but the Parliamentary draughtsman
inserted may, and hence each Minister can exer-
cise his discretion. An amendment of the Act is
now demanded.
David Gaunaon and C. E, J ones, far and
away the wittiest politicians of the Cabbage
Garden, were both plucked last week, so it is uu-
likely that their little flashes o! merriment will
tet the House in a rear for three dull years—
although Gaunson is a don at fighting bye-elec-
tions, And Tom Bant, who has all the faults and
tone of the virtues of his old pals, gets there all
the same. The right ones were taken and the
wrong one left.
Patkea considers that the payment of
the N S W. civil servants and the public creditors
by the Dibbs Government was “ spending money
without authority.” We rise to ask what he
thinks of the Circular Quay property purchase;
the Casual Labour Board job ; the pauoera’ cot-
tages at Parramatta purchase, and the £240 of the
public money which he so generously bestowed oa
Bailey, “ out of pity,” and which has not yet even
received the sanction of Parliament ?
Things must be in a bad way with the
Australian Nativfs’ Asscciation. At a recent
“ banquet” in Melbourne one of the Natives said
that the local Erald was tfce’r chief support, and
the cempany proceeded to give three cheers for
that distressing publication. To fully understand
the awful state of affairs we must picture the
sickly Sydney Branch of the VN A. jising, as
one native, to cheer the He venin’ Nooze ! There
is very little difference between the Nooze and
the Melbourne ’Erald. One may be rather the
nastier, but the other contains more slush. Some-
times both are nastier.


The Old Parkes Ministry.


The New Parkes Ministry.


£JRESOENT BREWING CO.’S
“AURORA ”
PILSBNHR 8188.
E, 8., WHEELEB & CO.,
265 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, neat
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
bath*. Horses and buggies for hire.
Dry Imperial Champagne Messrs. Moot and Chandon
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro-
ducers in the world. Their “DRY IMPERIAL" 1884
vintage is the pure juice of selected grapes from their own
vineyards of 2500 acres in the choicest districts in Franoe.
The Imperial Crown is In each corner of label, and 1884
branded on oork and label.
H
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd., George Street, Sydney,
AYE ju.t opened . magn.ioent lot of NEW PIANOS from the Celebbaxeo Mak.ua STEINWAY, ERARD, UEBEL, FBNEIOH, IIPP .
OOLLABD end other, i .1.0 of the wonderful YIOTOK pl.no. et £46, end ESTBY ORGANS. No soon vabiety ob value elsewhebe fob oa. U ob teems.
Society
Already this year Sydney Mint has re-
ceived half-a-million sterling of gold, issued
445,000 sovereigns (no half-sovereigns), and £24pu
in silver coin. All that its officers received for
handling all this is £l5OO, and yet we never hear
of a Mint official being “wanted” for embezzle-
ment. _
« • *
Lord Onslow will be the first “ Gov.” who
has arrived in the colonies as a “ cheap-tripper,
but we don’t suppose it matters as long as he pays
his bills. That’s the trouble.
* * *
Way, Chief Justice of South Australia, has
gained the proud distinction of being the
Chief Adulator” of that colony, and as an
exponent of tho art of flattery he certainly takes
the bun.” He is indispensable at public recep-
tions and farewell gatherings, and even 1' roude
dubbed him “charming.” When the Earl of
Kintore arrives there will be an excellent oppor-
tunity for a characte riatic display of Way s
peculiar abilities in the direction indicated.
John Bright, the Quaker apostle of Free-
trade, has gone to account for his blunder ;
Governor Jeivola gave the Wellington
people a “nasty turn” before he left, and drew a
ludicrously-pathetic picture of himself out for a
drive, holding on his hat with one hand while with
the other he tightly compressed his nostrils to
keep out the horrible stench of stale fish and other
decaying matter strewn along the highways and
foreshore. The Wellington “ hoi-polloi dont
swing on William’s front gate now.
• - *
Imitativeness Is a characteristic alike of tin
masher and the monkey, which is proved by the fact
that since the visit of the squadron to Wellington,
N Z.. the jeunesse doree of the flatulent cmy have
shaved their faces clean “to be like the naval fel-
lows, you know.” Some little time ago, the
fashion in the navy was to wear a closely cropped
beard called “ the torpedo.” Very soon, however,
the Jacks before the mast began to trim their
whiskers in like manner, and the Jack-a-dandies
amongst the officers deserted the * torpedo for
the clean shave.
* * *
The Corporation of Adelaide has framed a
bye-law compelling bicyclists to carry on their
machines a bell which can be heard at a distance of
50 yards. In consequence bicycles are now laden
with bullock bells, which make day and night
hideous with their unceasing clangour.
“All men are brothers,” said a man in
Western N.S- Wales recently, ‘‘but that man
(pointing to the Ohinkie cook at the hotel) is
brother-in-law of an M.P.” So wags the world.
Sydney barmiids aie at a premium at
Calcutta, and several have recently been engaged
to proceed thither for terms of one year and
upwards at salaries from £2 10i. to £3 a week —
expenses paid first class each way. Who now
would be a governess ?
• • *
Another insult to the book-fiend. Advt.
from S.M. Herald :
“Reliable Book-Canvasser wanted ; Christian only.”
Great Scott! A Christian book-canvasser !
* * *
They were talking of bull-doga in a three-
penny bar. Says No. 1: “ I saw a splendid im-
ported bull-dog the other day.” Says No 2: “I
tell you imported bull-dogs or any other dogs are
no blawsted good in these blawsted colonies.
They’re just like the men—after being out a few
years they lose all self-respect.”
• • •
An example of retributive justice has just
come under our notice. It is that of a girl who
recently recited “Beautiful Snow ” on board one
of the P. and O. boats. Just as the dear young
thing had reached the one-hundred and-thirty-
first-line a sailor hit her behind the little
pink ear with a chunk of ice from the refiigerator-
thing that freezes the dead sheep.
* • •
Brisbane soclely Is much fluttered by the
announcement of a probable match between what
everyone held to be the most inveterate bachelor
and the most inevitable old maid in town. The
lady is the female educational fcois in Brisbane,
and the gentleman is the renowned episcopal
British curate-recruiting sergeant and big local
Pass-the-bag-my-friends whose solitary palatial
reign has been the standing grievance of all the
devout Church of England charmers of the Queens-
land metropolis.
• * *
A boom in graveyards is the latest fad in
Auckland. It is being worked up by J. Ait ken
THE PRINCIPLE OF PROTECTION.
As applied to roller-skating—gives you
such confidence, yon know
Only can’t you just fall and hurt your-
self, that’s all!
Connell, better known as “the Tactician.
Connell wants to form a cemetery company near
the town, and advertises his scheme on racing-
sweep lines, with this slight difference that there
are no blanks. With brutal frankness he stars
his 16 x 10 lots “ with beautiful and cheerful out-
look,” combined with “an easily accessible road,”
and “an exceedingly sparse population in the
neighbourhood.” In one of his characteristic
letters to the local press, he delivers himself of the
opinion that as soon as this new honey ard is
opened up “ it will become exceedingly popular.”
Connell is a Scotchman.
• • *
Iq Adelaide (S A.) the other day a prisoner
got seven years’ hard labour for shooting at a man
who was said to be —on the lady’s own confession
too familiar with his wife. lu N.S Wales a few
years ago, a publican in a Murrumbidgee town
who had a pretty wife got a quiet hint that the
Iccal police-sergeant was too friendly with her.
By-and-bye he found that the guardian of the
peace was Indeed “ too chummy n with the lady,
and having fairly caught the pair he planted
a charge of buckshot in the swiftly retreating
policeman. Tae result was a visit to the nearest
assize town, an eloquent defence by the late
W. B. Dailey and a triumphant acquittal. How-
ever, Adelaide is noted for its churches and piety.
« * •
Ten thousand pounds was the price Yia-
count Garmoyle paid to be free of the artful and
fascinating Miss Finney, alias Fortescue, and a
similar sum has, so the cable man tells us, just
been handed over as a peace-off iring by Viscount
Dangan to induce Mies Phyllis Broughton to
forego her intention of marrying him. In future,
therefore, this amount may be set down as the
standard price of a stock actress whom a noble
noodle does not happen to want to marry. “Your
money or your wife” is the cry the sweet creatures
put up when the coronet is dangled in their view.
It is almost a pity that these smart young women
did not become countesses, for certainly the peer-
age would have received an addition to its oollec-
tive stock of cleverness by their accession to its
ranks. Such people used to be chei par, though, in
by-gone times.
O ! Dangan, old chappie,
We guess you’re unhappy
At dropping to much of your pelf;
“ Ten thousand for Phyllis ”
A pretty big bill is—
What trouble you’ve Broughton yourself!
• * •
“ New Chum ” asks a Melbourne piper to
tell him the best means of obtaining employment
in the Customs Department We suppose he had
better tip a member of Parliament or get his girl
to plead his cause with Duncan Gillies. If he
hasn’t any money or any girl we would advise
“ New Chum ” to try another line of business.
He doesn’t understand the customs o! our country.
• * *
New in-memorlam “pome” Inserted in
the Age by a bereaved widow of the greater glory
of her departed spouse ;
Here is a statement o! the case mere adapted to
the wants of widows :
Dear as thou wast on earth, my love,
For thee 111 shed no tear,
As thou art free up there above,
And I am free down here.
• * •
The latest defaulting Sydney solicitor has,
according to rumour, “had his unfortunate clients
for at least fiIH.COO.” He was a good man and
used to read the lessons at church. Of such is
the kingdom of heaven.
* •
TOYNT —JOYNT. On 191 h March, at the residence
" of the bride's parents, High street, St. Kilda, by
the Rev. J. Hansen, Walter Jjjnt, eldest son of John
Joynt, to Margaret, second daughter of Walter Joynt,
Somerset, England.
A “Joynt ” affair, evidently.
• •
“ The two (N.S.W.) Maries.” Mrs. Mary
Leathern, of the Molong Express, is an out and-
out Protectionist, while the other Mary, Mrs.
Garland, of the Caecoab (N.S.W,) Chronicle, is
a straight-from-the-shoulder Freetraderese. A
talk to a finish between these two champicnesses
would be worth riding 10 miles on a bare-backed
oj clone to hear,
• • «
Rav. Dr. Hannay, who has just reached
England after a trip to Australia, says that
“Adelaide is the most beautiful city in Australia
though he doubts its temperance.” Hannay, un-
like the vast majority of the bleeding public, has
been privileged to enter the holy of holies of the
saintly city and to see how much whisky with a
stick in it is nightly “ tanked ” by the pious bank-
director and the cherubic Y.M.O A. boss.
•* » .
A year ago a young fellow named Coulton
was sent to gaol for shooting a relative who bad
seduced his (Gou'ton’s) sister ; he last week died
in Armidale gaol of consumption. Considering
that the stage at which Coulton’s disease had
arrived at the time of his conviction rendered his
early decease inevitable, it is rather a pity that he
was allowed to die in prison. The country has too
few young men who are ready to shoot the
seducers of their sisters.
• * •
Parkes’ Lian la marvel at the improvement
which has been wrought in his exterior since that
historical marriage of his. He now uniformly
presents an elaborately dollel-up appearanca and
hasn’t worn his trousers too short for the last
three weeks.
All the members of the N.S.W. Ministry
have come out in new suits since taking office.
Dan O’Connor has a lovely homespun rig-out, but
a sad mishap occurred to his beautiful new bell-
topper, which, ten minutes after he had got it
from Mouatcastle, bumped against the roof of a
cab and fell under the wheel, which flattened it
right oat. Tais is ominous of something or otter
• * •
A meeting In Sydney last week affirmed
the desirableness of founding a N.S.W. National.
Portrait Gallery, and appointed a deputation to
wait on Premier Parkes upon the subj ect. When
the day arrived for the deputation to wait on the
great man only two people (whose portraits will,
in any case, ba inevitably handed down to fame
at the public expense) turned up : Dr Garran,
ex-editor of the S.M, Beeald, and (of course) Mr.
Burdett Smith. Now, it is a notorious fact that
Sir Henry Parkes’portrait has just been painted
and is ready to ba hung up—presumably In the
new portrait gallery. The origin of the proposed
new institution can thus be guessed at.
• • #
Baron Oarlngton teems to be a little weak
on contemporary history. King Smith apparently
does not know all about all the mambars of the
Smith family. At the annual meeting of the Syd-
ney Newsboys Brigade he made “ a cheery little
speech ” encouraging the boys to aspire to any
pnsiiion in this free country, where a man had it
all in bis own hands if he wanted to get on. He
also reminded them that Right Hon. W. H.
Smith, a member o! the British Cabinet, was alto
a newseller —a remark which a Sydney tcribo con-
siders was very apropos to the occasion. Little
Billy the Arab will be interested to know that
H.E, was on this occasion talking the baldest non-
sense imaginable. It is true that W. H, Smith
once sold papers ; ha sells them now. His father
sold papers and built up a big business to
which Smith, junior, succeeded. The Baron might
as well go up to little Billy and say : “ Billy, you
are selling matches, I see. You are bound to get
on, for Bryant and May sell matches.” Or to
little Johnny be might observe: “Johnny, you
black boots extremely well and you will inevitably
prosper. Why, Day and Martin are also in the
blacking business.” The Baron had better steer
clear of newsboys. When he sermonised them a
year or so ago he gravely announced to the world
that the vice-regal Smiths were a self-made family
inasmuch as they had had an ancestor who pros-
pered under the shadow of the three balls of
.Lombardy.
* • •
On the fast and commolloua Manly
steamer Emu, the other day, a lady passenger
seated herself in that part of the vessel where
smoking is allowed “ Really, sir,” she said to a
man whom she saw engaged in loading his pipe,
“ I cannot endure a pipe, though I don’t mind a
cigar” “Very sorry, madam,” was the
quick reply, “ but I really haven’t one to offer you
at the present moment,”
* • •
Ab latest dates Peter Jackson was “en-
gaged ” to a coloured lady of San Francisco.
“Yawner” writes to the Melbourne
Heeald's own medical man, complaining that he
is always yawning after breakfast, and asking for
a cu - e. This is the first intimation we have re-
ceived to the effect that Baron Carington
patronises Editor Winter’s paper,
* • *
“ Brought In by a Smile " is the heading
of an artic’e published in a Melbourne religion
weekly. We sympathise with the writer :
Once we took the pledge ourselves,
And we kept it quite a while—
No doubt we’d be sober still,
Only for that barmaid’s smile.
We have beftra us a very creditable speci-
men of local work in the shape of a handsomely
bcund, clearly-printed volume entitled “Recrea-
tions of an Australian Surgeon,” by Samuel T.
Knaggs, MD. The author’s range of subjects is
wide. Commencing with a paper on mind-
reading, the effect of which as an original produc-
tion is marred by excessive quotation, he proceeds
in his second essay to expose Dr. Slade. The
author's methods of accounting for “raps ’and
table raisiug are, though set forth by him some
years ago, similar to those j ust used by Prof assor
Huxley in his “Spiritualism Unmasked” pub-
lished the other day in the English Press, Dr.
Knaggs next deals with Spiritualism. His
attempt to prove that its honest supporters are
mentally diseased is fairly successful, although
the statements cf his concluding sentence are
wholly unsupported by facts. Alluding to the
“malpractices of professional mediums,” he says
that they manage by a series of cleverly -
contiived illusions to mystify, delude, and
plunge their unhappy victims for ever into
that downward channel which leads to
Abhei m and terminates in insanity. That
the forsaking of one form of supernaturalism
for another should inevitably lead to a total dis-
belief in the supernatural seems to us improbable.
On the contrary, the Agnostic argues that the
reason-weakening influences of supernatural be-
liefs t fford such absurdities as Spiritualism an
opportunity of taking hold cf minds, which, for-
saking the old creeds, require some immaterial
fetich to account for what they look on as b’anks
in their cosmological theories of science aud to give
hopes of immortality. Dr. Knaggs considers that
while it is likely that a Christian may become a
Spiritualist, it is impossible for one brought up in
absolute negation to accept superstitious beliefs of
any kind while in full possession of his mental
powers. In that case insanity must precede
superstition. As a matter of fact, mental evolu-
tion does not proceed on the lines the writer has
sketched out. The essays on “Phrenology,”
“Diphtheria,” and the “ Registration of Deaths”
contain much valuable information, but some of
the other papers are too sketchy and platitudinary
to entitle them bo critical survey. A paper on
“ Tea Poisoning,” however, is one that cannot ba
overlooked, and had the writer devoted the
volume’s whole space to the subject he would have
produced something of world-wide benefit, and
therefore more likely bo live than the callocution
of sketches now under notica. In a laudabla
desire to express his meaning with unmistakable
clearness, Dr. Knaggs uses occasionally unfamiliar
terms. This gives the intelligent “ comp.” his
show, and so we find on page 125 that the crypto-
gram (we presume he means that of Ignatius Don-
nelly) is a fertile cause of diphtheria. Good, old
“ comp ” 1 The book is printed and published by
W. M. Maclardy, 319 George-street, Sydney.
Silent at last is the eloquent tongue
That uttered false truths renowned —
Filling the ears of the aged and young
With a flow of enchanting sound ;
Gone are the days when Freetrader creed
Gave Britain a new delight,
When he was a power in the land indeed
Whom folly revered as Bright.
Never again shall the tongue now cold
Move multitudes vast to cheers ;
And sadly the young, in their turn grown old,
Look back on the bygone years
When they gathered in eager crowds at night
John’s flowers of speech to cull;
The lesson of Time has proved that Bright
Had better been known as Dull.
When the hours of day are numbered
And your senses steeped in sleep,
With a nightmare you’re encumbered
’Till you wake up in a heap ;
For a loud, discordant ringing
Echoes round about your bed,
Like an impish chorus singing
O’er the dead.
Then you throw aside the shutters,
And you peer into the night,
While the wind your garment flutters
And you shiver with affright.
What is this that rushes t wards you -
Is some fiend about to strike ?—
Just a glance the light affords you—
It’s a “ bike.”
There are many ways of swearing,
And you choose the very best,
For your brief, unlooked-for airing
Has deprived you of your rest;
And you wish the Oity Paters
In the deepest depths of—well,
Where they use no elevators,
Let ’em dwell.
“ Dear as thou waat, and justly dear,
I should not weep for thee :
One thought should cheek tha
Starting tear —
It is that thou art free.”
Oh ! the pugilistic Peter
Wants to wed a pretty creeter
Who wears her lover’s colours in her face ;
This match he thinks of making
Is a risky undertaking—
The other party chooses time and place.
E’en an ebon-tinted fairy
May be resolute and w ary ;
For though of woman’s weakness we may sing,
She is very cute and cunning
(You must overlook this punning)
When she faces her opponent in a ring.
And r t member, honest Peter,
You must never try to beat her —
That wouldn’t be according to the law ;
All the onslaughts of the missis
You must counter with your kisses,
Then the battle’s bound to finish in a draw.


THE SYDNEY DEPOSIT AND DIS-
COUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, 90 King Stbebt.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual Banking Business transacted.
The following are the rates of interest allowed
for FIXED DEPOSITS
3 years 94 per cent.
12 months 84 per cent,
6 months 74 P°r cent.
3 months 54 per ceut.
For the past three years a Bonus o! ONE PER
CENT, has been paid in addition to the above
rates.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON, General Manager.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemall’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
NTPW m a t}t it TO-NTTr-NHii POT.Tnnca WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OF THE
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period , or in the Event of Survival, FULL PARTICIPATION
IN TONTINE SURPLUS, tv Branches In all the Colonies and In tihe United Kingdom, g
Constable Hooligan’s Grievance
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“Mr. Johnson, P.M., declared ab Water
Police Court yesterday that a man cannot be con-
s’dered drunk whi n he is able to go home.- Daily
paper.
The Fcoice is gcin’ to blazes and 111 throw my
baton down ,
Before I'll do their dirty work and make myself a
clown,
For the Binch has now decided that the worst of
top rs may ..... , .
Be deemed a sober citizen if he homeward wends
his way.
A very zealous officer, I lore bis words in mind.
Determined to observe them if a drunk I chanced
to find;
So when last night I pounced upon a case as clear
as day i
I told him straight I’d let him off if home he’d
wend his way.
It was a very trying case, for he was much in
drink, , .
And that he was without a home I had some cause
to think; .
Well, dubious, I followed so that I could truly say
The drunk who thus passed through my hands
could homeward wend his way.
He staggered first to Newtown, and he next to
Loiohbardt tacked,
Hia course was winding like a screw —I speak but
gospel fact—
For I’m not in the witness-box, and lying now
can’t pay ;
He next observed : “ The Glebe’s my home, and
there I’ll wend my way.”
I followed sore against my will, for many a score
of times
A dozen drunks I’ve ‘'lumbered” while you
read these paltry rhymes;
His footsteps still I shadowed, wildly cursing
his delay— .....
I dared not touch that drunkard while he home
could wend his way.
The Glebe he’d passed for Pyrmont, when I
thought his little game
Had gone too far; I therefore asked for both
address and name,
And these not being given me I thought him law-
Sez I?“The Central is the home to which you’ll
wend your way.”
The charge was quickly taken down, the sergeant
cried out “ Fudge !
The man you charge with drunk ness is as sober
as a judge. . , .
» Twas true, for he, who hours before m dtunken
slumber lay,
Had now become a sober man and home could
.vend his way.
•' Now, Hooligan,” the sergeant said, “ complaints
you’ve got to meet:
You’re put down by the inspector as absent from
your beat.”
To this I pleaded guilty and Im fined a fort-
night’s pay
Because I followed up a drunk who home could
wend his way.
In future, when a drunken man intrudes upon my
beat,
The charge I’ll lay against him will he sweeping
and complete:
To “drunk” I’lljadd “Disorderly” and Lang-
widge ” so I may
Have power to cop him even when he homeward
wends his way.
la Charters Towers (Q ) rvcently there
were co less than 35 funerals in three days. The
grave and aheol are combined at the Towers.
Primate Barry wants Australia to do
something for its aborigines. There is no room in
Australia for the aborigines. The clergy must
live.
Is this hot enough for you? At Yanta-
bulla, between Ford’s Bridge and Hungerford
(N.S.W ) there are 12 teams laden with merchan-
dise drought-hound !
A temperance paper says that “three
drinks a day will buy a man an overcoat in three
months.” The world is full of men who have been
taking more than three drinks a day for a long
time, and yet they have no overcoat.
A well-known young Sydney architect was
walking along George-street the other day when
he was familiarly tapped on the shoulder by a
very gorgeously-attired personage. “Possibly
you are making a mistake, sir,” said the architect,
turning round—“ I really don’t remember our
having met before.” “ Ob, but we have,” said
the other—“don’t you remember building that
terrace at Marrickville a year ago ? ’ “Yes,” re-
plied the architect. “Well,” continued his ac-
quaintance “ I was the licensed drainer for those
houses.” “I presume you got your money,”
remarked the architect. “Yes; I got paid,”
replied the swell—“l merely spoke to you just
now because I wanted to tell you that since then
my father’s great-aunt has died and left me a lot of
money, and now I have started in business as an
architect myself.”
[?]
846 Maoquarie-street North, Sydney, April 3, 1889.
My Dear Moobabinda
I see that gaitsrs are to be worn this winter, and won’t
the baldheada get a treat if they be ? Why a girl with
THE WAY HE LAUGHED.
POLICEMAN (to street Arab): “ FWHAT THE DIVIL ARE YEZ CRYIN FUR?”
STREET ARAB: “I AIN'T CRYING. SIR.”
POLICEMAN (in astonishment): “ NOT CRYING!”
STREET ARAB: “NO SIR, THAT'S THE WAY I LAUGH.”
nice neat gaiters buttoned rout and her ankles will almost
walk on her hands to show them—and you won t be able
to stir on the Block when there’s a high wind blowing,
take your Sappho’s word for it 1 Gaiters just demoralise
a woman —and no matter if her foot and ankle be like a
broomstick stuck in a shingle, out she will go in as gaudy
a pair as ehe can precure, ard imagine that every mas-
culine eye is fascinated by her flat instep. Before the
mania fairly sets in let me warn you that drab or light
gaiters are bad policy, as they give the wearer an air of
having been recently smitten with (1 phantias's Dark
gaiters—like the dark horse—are the “tip” for the
season.
Those weird and wesrisome females (whom one alwajs
mentally pictures with bulgy umbrellas and very wide
boots) at present making trouble in the papers on the
“ Women’s Suffrage ” racket, are uttering strange words
on the subject of wedlock. One of these, with a perspec-
tive nom de-plume, ecornfully remarked the other day
that “ girls do not now look upon matrimony as the one
aim of a woman’s existence.” Old girls don’t certainly—
but then the causa of their giving connubiality the go-by
is because, for them, wedded bliss put its tongue in its
cheek and vanished iato the never-never, ever eo long
ago. Every woman I ever knew invariably stated Jehe
wouldn't marry—oh, rot on any account—and as invari-
ably accepted the first cfler made her that wasn’t exactly
out at elbows. And if no cfler eventuated, ehe had her
antl-oonnubial remarks to fall buck upon, end continued
to repudiate Hymen for obvious reasons. II makes me
laugh to hear that girls don’t want to marry now-a-dajs.
Why, it's only necessary to be iu the confidence of one
young man to know how far that oat will jump.
Much, very much, has been said pro and con on this
"Women’s Suffrage” question, bat the argument
strongest to my mind for the con party is advanced in a
recent epistle to the S.M. Herald. Here it is:
“It has been said an Englishman’s house is his
castle, but if his castle is li able to be in-
vaded' every evening by a party of female
political canvassers, it is likely he will fall into the habit
of missing bis boat or tram, and—dine and sleep in town.”
Probably would-be eleotresses haven’t reflected on what
their feelings would be when they came home from a
visit and were shrilly told by the small boy that Mary
Smith had come and talked politics to pa every night
while she was away ! Our feminine law-makers haven’t
pondered over the fact that that spiteful cat John knew
before he was married would be permitted by society
to button hole him in his offloe and use all her most des
perate wiles to nail his vote ? It hasnt perhaps occurred
to the political females of Sydney that hubby could then
e rplain the golden hairs on his coat collar by the simple
** Leant . p s lling.booth and.».”
“ Women s Suffrage 1 may be a great and glonous thing,
but when you coma to think about it there are one or two
drawbacks
I read that, at Naples, one of Gladstone s grey hair;-
picked off his coat in church by someone has been \ allied
at 43. Fancy that much for a single hair ? What wouldn t
some Sydney boarding-house-keepers give to have the
Grand Old Man tame about the premises under contract
to thed his high-priced ringlets into the butte r ?
On the 26th and 27th of March the “A” and “B”
Sydney Liedertafel concerts eventuated at the Barn-I
mean the Exhibition Building-in the presence of the
usual jam. Anew thoughtlet about these war Tea was
that, of those who came to bask (or pretend to) in the
’ . , , , , .... „
music, soms sat about at small tables and tried pitifully
hard to look as if they were accustomed to taking their
dose of harmony in that way. The novelty was rather
welcome, but sti'l it had its drawbacks, for when a stray
male in evening dress wandered past our table I had
almost to hold my breath to keep from howling
“ Waiter 11” As to the concert— ‘kongsair” a fat man
behind me, more English than roast beef, kept oalling it—
that trouble was w. 11 got ever, of course. At the “A ’
concert, perhaps the best choral item was Beschnitts
“ Slumber Soft,” the solo part b. ing “ preciously ” (that 8
the proper term just now) rendered by Mr.CCorak —a Cork
that I sincerely hope won't “fly.” Suppe’s gaudy
“ Fatinitzi” march—rendered more toc-too by the electiio
drums—was another “treat,'and it is cf course superfluous
to add that Kowaleki’s numbers, Signor Dimitresco’s wild
C, and Madams Lablache's angelic upper 0, were all
above par. Oh I I should just like to remark that if the
society let that lair, innocent-looking young ms n in the
front row open his mouth as wide in the future there will
be so many bets wagered amongst the audience as to
what, by appearances, he had for dinner, that most of his
melody will pass unheeded.
Somebody asked Mrs Malaprop, the other day, what the
would do if she were fa’s sly aoorsed cf anything.
“Why,” rep’ied our ceiebrity, “I should indignantly
deny the amputali.n, of course! ”
The private view of the Autumn Exhibition of the Art
Society of N S.W. eventuated on 30 th ult., at the Society's
rooms, 70 Pitt street, when a vast and seslhetio-looking
crowd swarmed in to go into raptures with one eye shut
before the works on view. The best and most taking pic-
tures were, In my opinion, Ashton’s “ Fairy Tale,” Full-
wood’s “Wet Evening in George-street,” and Spence's
“On Pleasure Bent.” As to the people “on view ” Sir
Henry and Lady Parkes (who—did I tell you?—is a small,
drab haired woman) were among the throng—Lady Parke s
wearing a black silk dress, white hat trimmed with black
velvet and some red and cream roses at her waist; Myra
Kemble (accompanied by Titheradge who wore a wonder-
ful heliotrope suit checked with an exceeding check) was,
as usual, the best “ groomed ” woman, in an artistically
draped gown of pale creamy-greeny silk with a green
floral design on it, combined with mignonette-green silk
and long green ribbons—green and white floral bonnet
with a “ perky” frontal erection of green gauzs—veil and
parasol marvellously en suite. Then the fat woman wore
black and white with a yellow rose on the apex of her
6x9 bust, and a gorgeous necklace of turquoises set in
gold round her substantial throat 1 Au reste, J. R. Ash-
ton never moved out of Patkes’ shadow till (somewhat
late in the proceedings) that orator had declared the
show “ hopen.” And one pale brother of art viewed the
pictures with a boomerang loosely held in his arms. No-
body ever disparages the creations of a painter who hts
bis boomerang along 1
What, in the name of Jingo, will the "confounded
ha vliniets ” not be up to next ? Says an Adelaide tele-
gram
The Cuzso brought out a considerable quantity of
luggage for the new Governor, the Earl of Kintore.
She had also on board consigned to him oases of
champagne, spirits, and wine. Representations have
been nude to the Customs department to allow these
to come in free of duty, but this was refused. The
department are Insisting on full duty being paid by
the Earl of Kintore.
Sacrilege, isn’t it ? Fancy a real live Earl’s tipple being
charged at so much per bottle ! I feel that I must remot-
strate with these cold-aouled excisemen in a short and
harrowing rhymelet:—
What do you think of this, dear ?
A S Companion or Housekeeper.—A Spanish Lady,
18 years of age. who has been educated in and
just arrived from England, of elegant manners and
accomplishments, is anxious to obtain a home. Ad-
dress, " Alo,” Herald.
“Alo” won’t be long in finding a “home.” “House
keepers ” of 18, of “ elegant manners,” are often anxiously
inquired for in sunny N.S.W. They seem to be rather a
speciality among the bachelors of the Beautiful Harbour.
And here is a blissfully ambiguous “ad.” from the
same paper:—
T ABY (19), golden hair, brown eyes, wishes to meet
good-looking gent., 23, view matrimony. R.L , G.P.O.
“ View matrimony ” is a very neat way of putting it, isn’t
it? By-the-bye, I wonder how much of the lady's hair is
gold-wash ? And whether she is really nineteen ?
A recent Government proclamation, appearing in
Sydney’s “leading" daily paper, has a note of interrogation
after the “ loyal ” hooray at the end, making it read
“ God Save the Queen ? ’ Of course one always mentally
puts the interrogative after that imbecile remark, but I
oonfees I hardly expected to find it openly expressed on
the Conservative visage of the S.M.H.
Apropos of art, Myra Kemble is going to again submit
to the ordeal of having her portrait painted—this time by
Mr. Lionel Cohen. As the head and shoulders only will
be taken, it won’t be so trj ing as “ sitting ” for Nerli was,
when she had to stand hours at a stretch 1
I went to see “Madame Midas” on Saturday evening.
What a wicked, channing, irresistible fiend Poll. Beck
makes Yandelcupe ! There isn’t much dressing, but in
the last act Emily Fifzroy wears a dinner-dress of black
si k with an Empire waist, the train attached only at the
top and falling loose. I don’t like the t fleet of this on tbs
sid'e—it looks too much like a tail altogether. As to the
house, Maggie Moore was in the d.o. box, and wore black
silk with lace sleeves and a straw fan. Dan O Connor
leant pensively on the back of the circle, and “ Cupid ’*
Smith was the pride and joy of the front row. That’s all.
On 26 th ult. the wedding of Miss Elise Johnstone, of
Carlisle, Glebe Point, and Mr. Percival Maitland, of Stan-
more, was perpstrated at St. James’, Sydney. The bride,
who is a descendant of Governor Bligh’s friend, Major
Johnstone, wore a very handsome gown (built by Hordern
Bros., of Pibt-street of white ottoman silk with a court
train, tablier of sioilienne braided with silver, and wreath
of lilies of the valley. Her robe de voyage was a Volga
green cashmere en directoire with pink facings, hat en
suite. Her eight bridesmaids were mostly in blue liberty
silk with white net hats. In the evening Mr. and Mrs.
Johnstone entertained their guests at a dance at Heed s
rooms when everything went ofl as glidingly as a greased
man down a toboggan.
A correspondent, who evidently put in a good time,
wishes me to state that a dates given by Mr. and Mrs.
Wood?, of Fairlight, Manly, on 19th ult., was simply a
whirl of rapture from the opening lancers; excellent
music, a perfect floor, and an abundant supper being the
leading features of the eflair.
It is rep:riel that a girl who tried to jump on to the
Batcoo in the recent collision in the Brisbane River missed
her footing and was only saved by someone j ust manag-
ing to oatch her bnstle as she started to sink. Dis-
paraging detractors of the growth rearwards are now ex-
pected to preserve an Ominous Silence,
The Qaeanaland Post office Directory
issued by Messrs. Hollander, Wright and Co , of
227 Qaeen-street, Brisbane, is a bulky, well-
arranged and well-orinbed compendium of infor-
mation relating to Queensland. Some novel ideas
in advertising have been imported into this work,
and public institutions and business firms who
have been fortunate enough to make their an-
nouncements through this medinm, have, we
should think, obtained good value for their money.
The directory is a work which no one having busi-
ness relations with Queensland can well be with-
out.
Lot not his little caso of pop.,
Of brandy, or “Chartreuse,"
Within the lowly Customs stop
Along with common “ boczs; ’’
But put them through with reverent awe,
And “ frank " them -as you’ll frank Kintore I
At such a little, tiny triok,
As passing gold-top free,
You surely won’t commence to kiok 1
For, really, can’t you see
That Kintore’s rule will be for ever
To take existence “ on the never ? ’’
So pass his tipple gently In
And do not hand the bill.
The very name of such a thing
Would make an earl feel ill!
Tax other people’s wine—but, pray
Remember, Governors never pay 1
A TIP.
Soon the Baron and his lady
Will return to the Domain—
To its leafy paihs and shady
Where they will “receive” again.
Ere vics-regal visit paid is,
Ere the guests begin to flow
1 would fain implore you, ladies,
Do not rush the tea-room so !
Ever yours,
SAPPHO SMITH.


Messrs. BEALE & 00. beg to announce that
iSby are now in occupation of their new and exteh-
•lVe warehouses at the rear of their new buildings
at 482 and 484 George street. In anticipation of
a large increase in the sale of the inimitable Haps-
burg Pianos, they have just landed out of Peninsu-
lar and Oriental steamers and other ships a really
magnificent choice of these celebrated instruments,
which, by sheer merit, have won their way in
public favour beyond all competitors. Many
thousand Hapsburgs have been sold throughout
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies have
been sent to us testimonials expressing perfect
satisfaction.
The construction of the Hapsburg differs in-
herently from that of other pianos. The follow-
Ing are some of the qualities which have together
placed it in pre-eminence :
Ist. The most easy and durable action yet in-
vented, viz , check-lever with front escapement.
The parts have been selected with extreme care,
the wood e mployed being pencil-cedar, an expen-
sive material, but one which will neither shrink,
oast, nor warp.
2nd. The wires are of very best steel, in the bass
•evened with copper only. The vibrations are
reverberated by a sounding board specially secured
•gainst changes ( f t mp e rature, imparting a clear,
full, round, delicious singing tone in marked con-
irast to the tin ke.tly, metallic sounds of inferior
Instruments, j
3rd. All Hapsburgs are now double oblique, the
rtrmgs beirg of gn ater length, thus giving fuller
volume tbao the old, straight-strung pianos.
4th. AH Hapsburgs are trichf rd.
6th. All have seven ot taves A to A.
6th. They have consolidated iron frames of great
strength. These frames are square reaching from
the bottom of the case to the extreme top of the
wrest-plank securely bolted through the latter.
Compound studs sustain the whole with absolute
rigidity. Teat these precautions are necessary
may be understood frt ra the fact that the tension
Of the wires equals a suspended weight of 13 tons
Thus the rat id mutations of our climate are
resisted and tunir g is only required at long inter
vals.
7th. The Felts are clinched on the hammers, in-
stead of b. mg fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every piano excepting the Haps
furg.
Bth. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
v t6 ifs a special safeguard against charge. A
split Wrest-plank is an unknown accident to a
Baps burg.
9th. Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
Cockroaches, Moths, Mice, &c. Wire-gauge backs
•re provided.
10th. All interior blocks and bearing are secured
ta their places by smews, which is a great excep-
toon to the us lal style of construction.
llth. The whole ac.ion is made adjustable and
iliterchan geable.
12th. The < uter Cases are of original and chaste
aes'gns and of perfect finish They are made of
well-seasoned, dm able, and beautiful woods, and
can be had in Walnut, Rosewood, or Ebony, with
Or without gold engraving.
A FEW SELECTED TimMOMAU.
CHARLES S. PACKER
s brilliant Pianist, and the greatest composer Australii
has known the associite of Mendelssohn, Thalberg,
Hun mel and Weber; the accompanist of the world!
jweetest singers-Mario, Grisi, Lablache ; the author o;
the Crown of Thorns, ” and many other noble compos!
handed us the following : "
’ „ T . . , j “ Sydney. 7th March, 1883.
I have tested the Hapsburg Pianos, imported bj
Messrs. Beale and Company, in all the various grades, and
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulness, and
V * er of , j h , e instruments. The tone and finish are all
he ,? es, f® d - Jbe proper balancing of bass witt
treble is strictly adhered to. Generally I consider them
unsurpassed by any instrument hitherto introduced
(Signed) CHARLES PACKER, Royal Academician.” d '
Madame CHARBONNET KELLERMAN wrote •
Ayant soumis les PIANOS HAPSBURG, de Messieurt
Beale et Compagme aux PLUS STRICTES EPREUVES
Je declare avoir aussi que surprise de la
DOUCEUR EXQUISE DE LEUR TOUCHER unfe aun
anipleur et une SONORITE REMARQUABLES Je lee
en toute sinedritb. ALICE CHARBONNET-
Juin 1883 1 ” 1 *’ Conaervatoiro de Paris . Sydney, 2C
„ ’ CERTIFICATE,
m 1 8^ ected Messrs. Beale and Co.’s HAPSBURG
fnH !T re 6 t teatB ’ ard am fireatlv surprised
pnwtu Sbt T ed a i tl ?, e,r MARVELLOUS SWEETNESS and
run C.K, 1 cordially recommend them.—(Signed! ALICE
CHAKBONNET-KELLERMAN, ol the Conservatoire ol
Pans. Sydney, June 20,1883.”
Governor Sir W C. Robinson, of South Australia, the
composer of Lnfurl the Fag ” and other patriotic songs,
TlAPsuiTur?'°mTwnS 11]Slr i an ’ examined and tested the
HAIbBURG PIANOS, and gave his unqualified reocm
mendation, which was duly reported in the Adelaide
papers at much greater length than can be her* given.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Lieutenant-Governor or Queensland,
selected and purchased from us a Hapsburg Piano on
ftooount of its special sweetness.
The BRISBANE CJWIwwR.
The Piano used for the accompaniments and the solos
was a brilliant toned Hapsburg, of which both singers and
players speak very highly.” b
_ . TELEGRAfM.
. ‘ The Piano used on the occasion was a Hapsburg of a
beautiful quality of tone and plenty of power. "
. The AUSTRALIAN.
The voices blended beautifully with the accompani-
ment, which was on one of the Hapsburg Grand instru-
ments. Ihe tone of this instrument is exceedingly pure
and powerful, and its qualities under the thrilling touch
of the conductor were displayed with consummate effect.”
SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone."
„ S° L u Tn AUSTRALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide.
.r.;J rh^r aPBburg , P ! anos are all of excellent workman-
imp. The manual throughout is remarkably sensitive to
Ihe touch, and the volume is admirably balanced, and
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments/*
VALUABLE TESTIMONY,
n m Blsho P’ s : c °urt, Adelaide, November 29, 1883.
Mrs. Kennion has much pleasure in saying that eh
and those who have used the Hapsburg Piano at th
Court have been much pleased by the quality and sweet
ness ol the instrument.
“ Mrs. Kennion will have much pleasure la nooaaiaend
-og the Hapsburg Pianos. ”
. HAYDN ORGANS.
Never require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnut.
Guaranted for Ten Trere.
Over ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND of these Organi
have been sold. The best only is the cheapest. Thi
Haydn Organs are of beautiful design, simple construe
lion, patent indiarubber bellows (which insects will no
touen), ivory keys, massive oases, exquisite tone.
HAYDN HARMONIUMS— Prices, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPANY
Catalogues Free by Post.
iB2, 484, 486 Gborq* Strut, Stout.
JSP MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE we will supply ysi
fAY¥*NY« ° r|:a- ' v *»*WoDlam >P« EAST fl¥*
PAINS
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAINS
LAST DAYS
POMPEtI.
PHILLIP PARK.
Scenic Artists: Mr. Walter Mills
and Assistants.
Stage Manager : Mr. J. Raymond.
In accordance with the expressed wish of a large
body of the Sydney public who thoroughly ap-
preciate the Enteitainment which has been pro-
vided for them.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS AND
ADDITIONS
will be made to the
MAMMOTH STAGE.
Under the personal supervision of
y CAPTAIN RAISON,
assisted by a body of 200 skilled mechanicians,
working by night, under KIRKLAND & CO.’S
ELECTRIC LIGHT.
This work will have the effect of raising the
entire STAGE and SCENERY
TEN EEBT ABOVE
its present level, thus enabling persons at the
extreme end of the Grand Stand to obtain a per-
fect and uninterrupted view of every detail in
connection with this MAGNIFICENT SPEC-
TACLE, arid will furthermore obviate the neces-
sity of any spectator standing up.
PAUL WEITZMANN in his daring performance
on the Wire,
ROMAN GAMES,
„ gladiatorial combats,
BOXING, WRESTLING, NET&TRIOENT,
Deadly Combat with the Net and Trident.)
The Procession of Priests, Drill of the Roman
Guards, Mr. Raymond’s celebrated Flower Dance,
in which a trained ballet of lady artistes will
asrist ; living Roman statuary, athletes, gjmnasts,
rope-walkers, &c , &c , together with numerous
other attractions.
The whole invent* d and produced by
JAMES PAIN, of LONDON & NEW YORK.
Be early and secure good seats.
H. DENTON, of Sydney, N.S.W.
J AMES PAIN, of London and New York.
c
RYSTAL PALACE SKATING
ACADEMY COMPANY, Limited,
Yokk-stekkt.
THE MOST POPULAR SKATING RESORT
IN AUSTRALIA.
Great Sensational Event to take place at an Early
Date.
THE GRAND OPENING SOON OF THE
SKATING SEASON.
Look out foe the Date.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, c; 01, equal to any
skating surfs ce in the world, and second to none
THE GRAND OPENING SOON.
To be lighted by thousands of the many coloured
Incandescent Electric Liohts provided by the
well known firm, G. K. Kirkland and Co., G 5
York street, Sydney,
Beautifully Decorated to imitate the Ice Palace,
Montreal, Canada.
GREAT IMPROVEMENTS
Newly Fitted Throughout,
First-class Staff of Competent Instructors.
Good Music by Full Band
Superintended by Mr. George Vassie.
Grand Exhibition in Skating by the Best Talent
in the World.
THE GRAND OPENING SOON.
A. F. SMITH, Manager.
Metropolitan skating rink,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
Two minutes from Railway Station.
THE COOLEST RINK IN THE CITY.
SPLENDID OPEN-AIR PROMENADE.
Beautiful Views of HARBOR and CITY.
City Band every evening and Saturday afternoons.
The FLOOR has been laid with MATTAI and
has been pronunced Second to None.
The Building is brilliantly illuminated with
Incandescent Electric Lights, provided by G. K,
Kirkland and Co., York-street.
- . SESSIONS:
Morning, 10, for Ladies and Children only
Admission free, Skates fid.
Afternoon, 2 30. Ladies and Children : Admis-
sion 6d., Skates 61. Gentlemen : Admission Is,,
Skates Is.
Evenings, 730 Admission (to all) Is. Skates Is.
Patrons (with own skates), floorage fid. Season
Tickets now ready.
Pyrmont and Balmain 'buses pass the doors
every few minutes. The management reserve the
right to refuse admission to objectionable persons,
D. W. HIGGINS, Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
BROUGH and BOUCIC AULT’S COMEDY
COMPANY.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING, at 8,
Sydney Grundy’s powerful Comedy Drama, In
four Acts, entithd
THE GLASS OF FASUION
THE GLASS OE FASHION.
Saturday Nigh*, and for 6 Nights Only,
THE TWO ROSES. THE TWO ROSES.
ADMISSION—£2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIS.
jgONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
dally. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is. i Children, fid. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.45.
Complete and Undeniable Success of
MADAME MIDAS.
PRICES — 55., 35., 25., and Is.
Box plan open daily at Vestibule from 10 till 6,
J, P, MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
8. Freeman & Sons,
Importert and Manufacture™,
Batlo’s Uig Fovdtrs,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
&•., All.
Steam Works and Bbewebt :
mm STBSETr ULTIMO, STDHB?
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
THEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee: Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman.
Last Nights and
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES in SYDNEY
of the Eminent and Popul r London Actor,
MR. CHARLES WARNER.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
IHfi
Imperial Land, Building & Deposit Company
(Limited), N.S.W.,
Hofnung’s Buildings, 171 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Managing Directors:
Al£x. Mllsop, Esq., J P , Chairman.
IT. L. Summer field, Esq. Wm. Martin, Esq., J.P.
U. V. Manning, Esq. Wm Byrnes, Esq.
General Manager:
William p. Smairl, Esq., J.P.
Phis Company undertakes all usual Banking
and Building Society Business on the most favour-
able terms. Fixed and Current Deposits received
and Interest allowed at the following rates :
12 Months ... 7 per cent.
« .. 6 „ „
i > •■■ * 5 ii I,
Advances to Municipalities on the Security of
rates on very liberal terms.
On City, Suturban, and Country Properties at
lowest current rates.
Liberal assistance given bo build or purchase.
Annuities purchased or advanced on.
Mortgages guaranteed, the punctual repayment
of interest, or principal, or both.
Dividends collected in the United Kingdom or
the Colonies.
Communications addressed to the General
Manager will receive prompt attention.
T
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
April 2, 1889.
IENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For conditions see “ Government Gazette."
Nature of Works and
Supplies,
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Manufacture and Delivery of
Single Ladder Dredge for Syd-
ney Harbour
Erection of Goods Shed, Pens,
&c., Byron Bay Jetty (time
extended)
Repairs, &c , Court House, Coon-
amble (fresh tenders)
Erection of Saw Mill, Spar
Shed, &c., Naval Station,
Garden Island
Bridge over Bubaroi Creek, Road
Oondobolin to Hillston Wednesday,
Repairs, &c., Pc stand Tel ■ graph April 10,
Office, Cootamundra | at 11 o’clock.
Repairs, Police Buildings, Urana
(fresh tenders)
Supply of 4-tn Locomotive
S"eam Crane, at Pyrmont
Whaif
Boilers, &c , Hospital for Insane,
Newcastle
Completion of Contract No. 42,
Sydney Sewtrige (fresh tend-
ers)
Contract No. 49, Sydney Sewer-
age, Supply of Ironwork
Supply and Erection of a Crane
on Byron’s Bay Jetty
Construction of Whaif, &c.,
Eureka, Macleay River
Works, Mounting Guns, George’s
Head
Manufacture in the colony of
Water Pipes—to be constructed
either of Wrought Iron, Steel,
or Cast Iron
Wednesday,
April 24,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
May 8,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
ADMIRERS of The Bulletin may have the
whole of the New Sariea (sixpence) in
all 48G numbers, carefully preserved, handsomely
bound. Ten Volumes for £2O. Chisholm, Bul-
letin Office.
Doyle’s New Hall, Janee, the best on the
Southern Line. New scenery and fire escapes.
Companies about to do the Southern trip would
do well to engage at once. Wire or write to W.
J. Doyle, Commercial Hotel, Junee. Price
Moderate.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathnrst-street, Sydney.
“My Tailor,” 154 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suits to measure lor £8 3s.
PERFECT HEALTH 1
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hookings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufaotobt j
SPRING ft O’CONNELL STREETS.
iim
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, In any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN.
CARL RONISOH, L. NBUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, In varloc i
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes lor
single rooms. Great variety,
NEWTON & LAMB.
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spbing and O’Connell Stbebvn.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.— The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbing Stbeem.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wabdbobb, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Copboabd
and Two Cane-Seated Chaibs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbing Stbebte.
LI
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A VIBT OOMFtIV
Assortment.
Many quite new design*.
Newton & Lamb.
ŧ
CANVAS FOEDINQ
COTS, fov camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 6 feet long and np to SO feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS.
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d. j
12x10,155. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Oonnell Streets.
I
PATENT
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DBYEJ3,
186 feet ol hanging spate
Very Cheap.
newton”*" LAMB.
t
QANYAB FOLDINGS
CHAIRS.
Substantial ud Light,
Bailable lor Shipboard acd
Verandah.
Prlee Very Low.
NEWTON A LAMB,
Farnllare Warehonsemen,
Bfbino and O’Oonnbi,! Btbbbbr.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 3ft. long. Bostic
Oast-iron Standards, 14s. fid. each. Nbwboh
and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 19b. Verandah Ohairs
Indian Lono-Abm Lodnobb.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
16s. j and large variety of Chairs, from 12s
fid., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Nbwtob
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Ocnnell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Frioesi
Nbwton & Lamb, Importers, O’Oonnell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Bates.
Nbwton & Lamb, O’Oonnell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, bei
also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
VlWTONand lAMB.


T>
JK
K
ci
•O
Hr
o
s
■ T
O
u
T
/Uents,
OEXISSA& PHILLIPS
w 3»j Baj\ra,ck Street.
CAUTION.
LOOK ODT F01( FRAUDS.
Owing to the success of Dr. Soule's
American Hop Bitters in curing all
diseases of the Liver, Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Nervousness, Sleeplessness,
and Female Complaints, so that it
has become a standard household
remedy all over the world, and the
immense demand for the original
and genuine article, certain persons
are offering for sale' various cheap
and spurious preparations under the
name of “ Hop Bitters ” which do
not contain the medicinal properties
found only in Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.
Take none of the cheap bogus stuff
simply because it is called “ Hop
Bitters.”
TRUTHS.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitter* are the
Purest and Best Bitters ever made.
They are compounded from Hopi,Buchn, Han*
drake, and Dandelion —the oldest, best, and most
valuable medicines in the world, and contain all tho
host and most curative properties of all other Bitters,
being the greatest Blood PnriAer, Lirer Regu-
lator, and Life and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
No disease or ill health can possibly long exist where
these Bitters are used, so varied and perfect are their
operations.
They give new life and vigor to the aged and In-
firm. To all whose employments cause irregularity
of the bowels or urinary organs, or who require an
appetizer, tonic, or mild stimulant, these Bitters are
invaluable, being highly curative, tonic and stimulat-
ing, without intoxicating.
REMEMBER.
£500 (Five hundred pounds)’ will be paid
for any case that Dr. Soule’s American Hop
litters will not cure or help.
See that each bottle bears genuine
label bunch of green hops on white
paper with black letters.
None other genuine. Tuke no other.
gOMETHING STARTLING.
WHY BE HARD UP
When we can show you how to make at least
POUNDS PER WEEK
At an easy and comfortable occupation ?
NO CAPITAL REQUIRED AND SUCCESS
GUARANTEED.
We give full particulars on application to
MANAGER,
P.O. Bo U Sydney.
I
CONSULT
CORE &
H
OGG
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases df the Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets', Brisbane.
OOr.SULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Everybody should use Pemell's latest best Snow-whits
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age
PUBLIC MOTICE OF REMOVAL
PEAPES-& SHAW
Are now locat'd in their New Premises. 311 GEORGE
STREET, alo-ost Immediately Opposite their Old Place
of Business.
They are Now Opening Up One Hundred and
Fifty Cases .of New Goods specially selected in
the Best Markets of the World.
The New Premises
Will be found the best-lighted, best-arranged,
and most commodious for a FIRST-CLASS
GENTLEMENS OUTFITTING TRADE to
be found anywhere in the Southern Hemisphere.
Their future operations will be exclusively con-
fined to the MENS’. YOUTHS’, and BOYS’
GENER AL OUTFITTING. All orders will be
under the personal supervision and care of the
proprietors, and no effort will be spared to please
their patrons, and give the very best value for
money.
The Tailoring Department.
Three first-class cutters are kept constantly
going, and the stock of Coatings, Trouserings, and
Vestings is unsurpassed for quality, style, and
durability, and the prices will be found strictly
moderate.
The Shirt-Making Department
Is the largest order-trade in the Australian
CjloeDs, while the stock of ready-made Shirts is
unequalled for style, qua’ity, and finish.
'lhe General outfitting Department.
This Department it one of the moat important.
Everything that can contribute to the health and
comfort of gentlemen travelling is to be found
here, from the handsomely-fitted Gladstone Bag,
serviceable Portmanteau, Sieel Trunk, Travelling
Rug, or other minor necessities of travel, such as
Rug Straps, and Luggage Labels or Deck Chairs.
Gentlemen’s Heady-Made Clothing
Department.
In this Department will be found every variety
of Ready-made Garment, from the stylish Gentle-
manly Overcoat to the inexpensive Ready-made
Suits, ranging in price from 21s. to three guineas
Youths’, Boys’ and Juvenile Beady-made
Clothing.
Special attention will be paid to this important
Department, recognising the fact that the child is
father to the man.
Hat Department
Tress’ and Christy’s Hats in all the latest styles,
and the very best quality these well-known manu-
facturers can produce.
Hosiery and Mercery Department.
It is almost impossible to enumerate the variety
of goods comprised in these Departments. Scarfs,
Ties, Braces, elegant Scarf Fins, Links, Solitaires,
&. from Welch, Margetson, and Co., and others.
Hosiery, Undershirts, and Pants, from J. and R,
Morley, and other first-class makers.
Every attention and courtesy will be shown to
persons desirous of looking through our new
establishment.
PE APES AND SHAW,
Gentlemen's Hosiers, Glovers, Tailors and Out
fitters,
311 George Street, SYDNEY.
The %10-ktralian Investment, Finance
AND
LAND COMPANY (Limited.)
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,000
Hoad Office : - 34 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman —HENßY GORMAN, Esq , J P.
Vice-Chairman —F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office: - 31 Lombard Street E.C.
Chairman— Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M P.
This Company was established in 1881, and, as
the result of wise and enterprising management,
has won its way to the front rank amongst Invest-
ment Companies.
The amplest security is offered to Depositors,
inasmuch as the Company has large and valuable
city rent-producing properties, besides its well
known suburban estates, which are mostly within
a very short distance of important railway stations.
Deposits received in large or small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the
current rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES, Manager.
COURVOISIER’S BRANDY.
This celebrated Cognac, as supplied to the late
Emperor Napoleon 111., is guaranteed to be of
the purest and finest quality.,
T. CURRAN & CO.
W. JAMESON & CO.’S
"lAUOVBOK LINE" WBISS7,
Which possesses all the delicacy of bouquet, rich-
ness and purity, characterising a carefully-prepared
article that has been favourably known to the
world for the past 130 years. In bulk or case.
T. CURRAN & CO.
CHAMPAGNE.
** Beriet Fils & Oo.” Dry, elite and first quality.
Excels all other wines, and commands favour in all
the Courts of Europe.
Thos. Curran & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS,
Temple Court, King Street.
The most welcome discovery
OF MODERN TIMES.—A new remedy for
Consumption, Asthma, Bronchitis, Hacking
Coughs, Hemorrhage. This notice is of vital
importance to all who suffer from this terrible
disease. We wish to impress on patients to try
our Medicine at once, for two or three bottles will
do more good taken in time than nine or ten when
the disease has laid hold on the constitution.
Testimonials on application. Prepared and sold
only by FORD and CO., M’Rea’s Buildings,
Fitzroy-street, Newtown.
* Adam Bede’s *
Benevolent fjoisuLTATiONS.
“ All the Year Bound."
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
In accordance with the suggestion of the
Sydney Bulletin, “ Adam Bede '* will devote to
specific public charities three-tenths of his com-
mission on all sweeps upon four of the great events
of the year, viz : Newmarket Handicap, Austra-
lian Cup, Great Metropolitan Stakes, and Mel-
bourne Cup. In the three sweeps advertised
hereunder and in all sweeps except those above
specified he reserves to himself the light to give a
bonus to charities commensurate with the success
of the sweep.
Autumn Handicap,
Run at Hawkesbury, April 13, 1889,
Subscribers at £1 Each,
First Horse ... £l6OO
Second Horse £6OO
Third Horse £4OO
Starters, £600; Non-starters, £BOO
(to be divided amongst them).
4,000
i.
•I
000
Sydney Gold Cup,
Bun at Bandwlcb, April 22, 1889.
Bubscrlbera at £1 Bach.
First Horse £4OOO
Second Horse £l5OO
Third Horse ... £lOOO
Starters, £1500; Non-starters, £2OOO
(to be divided amongst them).
10,00
OOO'OI
Easter Handicap,
Run at Auckland, N.Z., April 22, 1889.
Subscribers [at £1 Each.
First Horse £BOO
Second Horse £3OO
Third Horse £2OO
Starters, £300; Non-starters, £4OO
(to be divided amongst them).
Adam Sell's is tie onh fair metbod of dravinr,
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bbdb until after the races have been run.
Subscribers are particularly requested to re*
glster their letters to ensure safe delivery, and
must enclose stamps for reply and result and
add exchange to cheques.
Address
“ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Next Event ADELAIDE OUP (£2000)
May 9th, 1889.
2,000
2,000
Hawkesbury river, summer
SEASON.
8ANIT0RIUM HOTEL.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished; boating and fishing; three-
quarters of a mile fr>m the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See yon go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &o.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents, Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.
BNUIIsE SWEDISH MADE ‘CROWN
BRAND” HORSE SHOE-NAILS
are superior to all others and lower in price.
Samples to be had at any leading Ironmongers,
or from
G. A. F A L S TED T,
Sole Agent for Australia,
146 PHILIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
Egyptian coo Cigarettes!
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO ’
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO'
M. Melachriiio & Co.,
Cairo,
Supply all the Courts and Embassies
of Europe;
All the leading British and Continenta
Clubs and Regimental Messes.
mr Have the LARGEST SALE In the World.
Universally Aoknowldeged to be the Best 1
Sole Agents :
WARREN S RoWN,_l4!_arrack Street, Sydney,
PuUic supplied direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price, No. 5 Cigarette .. 85/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100,
„ No. 8 .. 66/- „ 7/- „
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0 , inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
A B, GAB. .GAB.
Protest yourselves against explosions, leakage*,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Honrs : 9 to B, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
The Referee.
The Age sporting prophet has arisen
and explained that the “ Lcchiel ” tip of
that journal was previously published in
the Leader upon tin same day as Tita
Bulletin rhyme was let loose upon an ad-
miring world. Nobody ever tees the Leader,
however, and our ignorance is thus explained. As
the angry bard cannot give a logical reason for
tipping Lochiel for the second event while entirely
ignoring him for the first (which the horse eo
nearly won), and as his rhyme wasn't wibhiu two
stone of The Bulletin’s in print of smartness,
he is welcome to all the glory he can get, and we
hope he won’t do it again. We would not will-
ingly hurt his feelings, anyhow.
* » •
Mr. Frank Farnell, M.L.A, has the
sympathy of The Bulletin in his efforts to
legalise the use of the totalizator in N.S.W.
Used within bounds, the betting-machine would
do much to purify the turf, as it would sound the
death- knell of the small bookmakers who are a
curse to sport of all kinds. It would also have a
tendency to promote cash-betting amongst per-
sons of limited means, who, under present cir-
cumstances, frequently get into difficulties through
the facilities for wagering on credit that are
afforded by the bookmakers. The totalizator
might also be turned into a useful method of main-
taining the hospitals and other charities if
a fixed per-centage from the profits of its opera-
tions were devoted to charitable purposes. In
N.Z , where the totalizator has been in use for
years, ten per cent, is deducted by the racing
clubs, and it is found that to 2 per cent, is
sufficient inducement to speculators to provide the
machines and work them, the balance going into
the coffers of the clubs. Our idea is that, should
the totalizator be legalised, 3 per cent, of the
profits should be secured by statute for charitable
purposes. It has been roughly estimated that
£1,000,000 per annum would go through the total-
izator in a truly sporting country like N S.W. If
the amount is approximately correct, the charities
of the country would receive £30,000 per annum
and the racing clubs £70,000, out of which they
would have to pay the expenses, amounting to,
say, £lo,ooo—not more than 1 per cent, of the
whole amount dealt wibh.
« « •
Mick O’Brien was to have weighed out for
the Matrimonial Stakes week before last, but the
serious illness of his mother upset all arrangements
at the eleventh hour.
* • •
We have received from Mr. T. S. Glib-
born, Secretary to the A. J. 0., an acknowledgment
of a cheque for £l4 ss, 31. forwarded by The
Bulletin, on behalf of “Adam Bede,” for the
Distressed Jockeys’ Fund.
* # . #
Two bookmakers were recently fined £25
each at Auckland, for laying totalizator odds in
the paddock at Takapuna Rices. The action of
the stewards has been endorsed by the Metropoli-
tan Olub.
* * •
The Dunedin Jockey Olnb talk of giving
1000 sovs. added money, to the Exhibition Cup,
to be run at the latter end of November, the
meeting to extend over three cUys.
* * *
An English paper Imagines that the Maori
footballers are not at all strong in point of funds,
and will be lucky if their accounts come out on
the right side of the ledger. Jimmy Scott, the
manager of the trip, however, says that the con-
cern has panned out all right.
* • *
C. H. Speakman, who was a prominent
member of the English football team lately tour-
ing the colonies, has secured a lucrative position
in Brisbane.
* * *
The Sydney Mercantile eight-oar crew had
rather a lively time of it one Saturday night, re-
cently. They put their street togs on board the Nellie
and rowed their boat down from the branch, but
the steamer people forgot all about the clothes
and left the eight in a state of cli ! l until about
9 o’clock, when they decided to strike for home at
all hazards. A raid was made on the caretaker’s
wardrobe, but as he stands about five and the
crew average upwards of six feet, the fib was not
up to much on those who bad the luck to annex
some of his duds “ Jacky ” Thomson fetched
North Shore in an ice-cream suit consisting of
flannel pants and red-striped coat and cap, and a
long Surry Hillsite tacked for home in a long
overcoat and a boatieg cap. However, the
“Wily Scot’s ” experience was the hardest of all.
When he reached home in a pair of pants reach-
ing a little below the knees and a coat and hat
that a Domain prowler would have thrown aside
In disgust, his wife refused to let him in, and when
he got savage and thumped the door the lady
called for the police until Mac, persuaded her of
his identity.
-V * *
There was another row at last Canterbury
races over an owner of horses bidding for one
of the Selling Rsc? winners. It was over an affair
of this sort that old Terminus had his throat slit,
and the “slitter” did his time in gaol. In their
own interests the various club committees should
put this outrage down with an iron hand, and
allow would-be buyers to bid without the prospect
of a storm of abuse.
• * •
Huratvllla went in for a little pigeon-
shooting lately, when ten of the sterner sex
and one of the gentler put in an appearance with
the firing-irons. The eleven stood in a row, and
when a bird was let out, the lady bad first bang,
and when she missed they had a go at it all along
the line. However, there was nothing cruel in the
game, as the bird invariably ran the gauntlet un-
scathed.
• • •
Ye gods ! Ib Is enough to exorc’se the
spirits of the old-time bruisers. One B Hyams
announced in a London paper that if John L.
Sullivan, Jem Smith, Jake Kilrain, Caarley
Mitchell, and Peter Jackson threw in a sweep-
stake of a couple of hundred apiece he would add
£2OOO on the following conditions Show to come
off at the Agricultural Hall; to box with fun-
s’z d gloves four rounds of three minutes each
with a final of five rounds ; first prizs £l5OO,
second £7OO, third and fourth £3OO each.
• • >
The Queensland boxer, G. Dawson, Is
looking for Abe Aibken with the object of a
match. Aitken is no more likely to tackle Daw-
son than Jack Puller the rcugh-and-ready Burge.
• * m
Daring the cruise of the yacht on
the New Zealand coast, lately, a whale ran up
alongside and spouted over the crack Auckland
boat. The crew were playing penny “ nap.” at
the time, and the contribution to “kibty” was
not up to expectations.
* * *
M‘Aullfle, who went down so badly be-
fore Jackson, of Sydney, has got a new trainer
who says in six months he will make him a world-
beater.
* * •
A half-sister of Lochlel (by Prince Charlie
—Nancy Black) was recently sold in America for
£3OOO.
* • *
The next V.R,O. meeting at Flemlngton
i is on the 13ih of April—not the 19bb,


JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT;
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
a WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the product on of the colony, composed of wild
plants indigenous to the country and nowhere else,
the principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS,
now so famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try fob Yourselves.
M» ssrs, B. Row and Co.
Lear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and I ave found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, vours, etc.,
L P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANIt’S BITTEKS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
, Read this testimony from a well-known
Citizen:
Statutory Declarations.
“I, Gborge Hkwett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely dt dare as follows .
“That 1 feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been buffering for many years
WPakneFS of the stomach, so called INDI-
CT -TION or D Y SPEPSIA, and have been cured
, taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured,
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
ROW’S STBANE’S wine
Is.» saf o and sure stimu’ant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEaNE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffermer from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it. *
avT. K : E ™ TAI - LKR3 this newly-invented
IUJNKJ answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating q lality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and crea e a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur-
passed.
■ RO
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For general J lebility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USB.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with seme quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVEr!
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN
SAYS ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks fc r for vardirg me a bottle of you
Row s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them moa
excellent, and supen >r to many others that I bav
previously tried. You-s faithfully, HENRI
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886. B
Read an expression of thankfulness receivi
from the undersigned :
“I have for many y'ara been obliged to tal
medicines of different kinds for affections of tl
indigestion, pain in the chest, general d
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness ere
depression of spirits, ar.d so on, but all withoi
nrnmicincr quu i*n . « .
j • *«u on, dud all witho
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, beii
reconrmended to trv ROWS DANDELIO
BITTERS, which happily, I find has prodm
an unexpected and wenderful effect and chai
in my system, and has removed from my mi
the horribly depressed feeling and former ci
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ,
penenced for so many years. J
“! am glad of the opportunity to make kmv
of ? ow ’ s dandelic
xsi i i JiIKS, that those who are afflicted as I hs
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
..n ~“,M ^ RY TERRILL,
RU „ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
Meun. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney,”
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS
ROWS YOU’LL DO BITTERS
ROWS ORIENTAL BITTERS
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES. li rERa
Soli Proprietors,
Edward Row & Compani
tt. tf. 47 GEORG 1 STREET
itdvit
It Is cabled that an Irish reporter has been
committed to gaol for contempt of ciurt, because
he told a lie. There is probably some mistake
here.
Brisbane Courier, struggling harder
than usual with the Irish question, inquires
sternly: “ Can any one read the telegrams of
yesterday without seeing that one of two courses
are inevitable.” Perhaps they is. Any person
which have studied history can see as how they
I was. If he can’t see that he were so he ought to
go back to school and learn grammars.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
Soisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Laooassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthened and beautifler of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kaltdor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
Olb Pobi, duel, Hook, Sherry, Roueillen, Madeira,
Muscat, tokay, fee. Unequalled Hlrh-olaH Wine# are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 Georre-itreel, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
E. C. EUEY
<r
s
&
&
O
*
<s>
V
•#
<<#
v°"
dr
o
6 s
o
€>
v
<cX
o
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDIXTBY
At Morea more rain Is so badly wanted
that 25 settlers have been “ dried up.” What ex-
tremities !- At Melbourne He bald office, Winter
storms, rages, and thunders all the year round.
Pabllc executions are c: mmon in the Trans-
vaal. The hangman, who is usually a convict,
gets a free pardon and a sum of money for per-
forming the job, and, in addition, a horse and a
new saddle and bridle. He is th?n given 24 hours’
law to get out of the district, and if he remain in
the place after that lapse of time any one is at
liberty to shoot him with impunity. This pleas-
ing custom is called making a man “ free as a
bird ” (for anybody to kill).
William’s Australian inseetleld Is death l« aU (assets.
Simple In application—sure In eßeol. I hie It the only
genuine insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while It Is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosqunos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
t. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist. S6T King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs KllleSl Brea,
and B. Prosser & Go.*
£2O
BDCKBOA1D BVCtOIBC
£2O
Regular shipments of the Best Backboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box nnder seat, size, 28 xl6 z 61n. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light tanning and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buokboards with pole,
&0., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
A ustralasla. Call and see us. Terms : Cash i or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages. Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
BRITTENBERG ft 0 0.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 CIiABXNOI Stbbbt, Wtntabd SqOABI.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS
■O. 78 CLARENCE STREET, STREET.
II
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce
AND PAY f
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Term*.
Jcxa.es’ ile-wlxa.gr 2vCacla.lxa.es,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FABL£ 15Hi NET7H£!M & Co,, and Loathor Morchasts
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents lor the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
_ o
Also Importers of
Impor
Requisites lor the Boot Manofaotnring Trade In all Details Innlndw mv.»
mmVrNTfTnxrmp “m 0 * * h ® f m ,o T lnfir ¥“«■ ! PEERLESS GLOSS. SATfifFOLisS’
NX BTAN BLACKING Tanners Tools and Materials, Indents executed on Favourable Terms
DR* RICHARDS.
tafn-n sVlrrilNG~R
I
D? RICH ARDS
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognisad qualifications
Combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTS’ YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment
in the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting secsition, Headaches, Drowsiness dur-
ing the day, circles around the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfallness, disccntentedness, weakness or pains
In the back, Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot honourably mairy, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, and other symptoms
which lead to insanity and death, should consult
him, for he has mastered these difficuhies. On
receipt of 6d. in stamps he will send secure from
observation in a plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH * BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnececsary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
onrfeeipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think yoti
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence } enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment,
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any cir-
cumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
cases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
(off Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention this paper when writinffi
Consultation Fin.
MRS. O’REILLY (regarding the new china pug) " Oh, moi; phwat an illigant
lockniss!”
MRS. McPUCH: “Fwich?”
MRS. O'Reilly : “De Statute av Mickey ye have an de shelf beyant! ” PUCK


Business Announcement!
AUSTRALIAN
RULER non Mill! I BRAIN SIJRES,
GRANVILLE.
t^t') TTVinpAXI ’Q! Royal Patent Steel Roller
JjlllJi' lull U and Imperial Stone
can be obtained from principal U t A | |T) 0
Mtkers and Storekeepers in Syd- x JJV/ L JLiO
ney and Country.
mill PRODUCE ALWAYS IN STOCK.
We are CASH BUYERS of Prime MILLING
(WHEAT in any Quantity.
Sydney Office : 34 Pitt Street.
AT the Federal Help Company, WANTED
General Servants, Cook*, Nurse?, House
maids, See,
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices: 72 Elizabeth street, near Hunter-
street. j STRAFFO RD DIXON,
Secretary.
EPPS'S
(grateful—Comforting
C OC O A
Mfldfie&l*
ftae Greatest Success V
of Modern Times. /
CONSULT
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured 1
/ All Chronic Disease
\ are Curable.
Hi, E, E, SCEGLHiNfii Consultin' Eclectic,
flim.T.m SPSOJAMST FOR ALL CHRONIC DISRASRS,
It WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
Any sufflerers unable to call can write for a Hat of ques-
(lo nB (pro) by which they can be treated equally well at
i nv distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
-on are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
Obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost lor a
template cure. Ycu can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
I aed by him.
Bead the following Testimonial, one of thousands morel
[OOPT.I
Glenhope, 19th July 18801
f e h. B. Kdgiluanh, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
Of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1888 but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
lake any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that 1 was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken lor the last 16 months was poison.
then pressed him lor a true statement of my case, and he
rery reluctantly informed me thau I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
Reotorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
mgs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines lor a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
■Hn from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand i
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very last.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and ocmgh
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
ate as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK B. B.
KNIGHT.
Witness-J. 0. DANIEL, Glenht pe.
Declared before me this 6th day of August, IStso, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ssr All Consultations free. *Gft
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Ocsi is incurred In tha event at Onai
HOI BBINfI Effrotid.
IJIO SUFFERERS.
CONSULT PBRSONALLT OR BY LBTTIR
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
THEY Treat and Cure all Ohbonio, Nbbvous,
and Special Diseases o! both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE.
X ;X
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all oases.
x :x
M.B.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely yacked, to all parts of the Colonies.
Note the Addbbss ;
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxpobd Hbbbal Dispbnsabt,
IS! Sliabdh Stmt, Mt Park, Sriner.
*****
mm
• >■- -
&
i
■*■ *
m
X X
> X
■■-
PET IVS FAMILY HOTEL, York Street, Sydney.
-i ! V
A2T LETTERS AND TELEGRAMS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. ■«
Slar©rs.d.©n 3s^ot©l,
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
A T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
Cjl served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchf
inner, you can enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country |
iere also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can 03 sibly make one
omfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic art! i ira vided. Table
it Hdts at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
'tsitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the polony,
Mrs. KILMINSTEB, Clarendon Hotel,
Oppositb OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
PLE
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk fcr beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redners and Roughness of the Skin; is
mod coding' and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate i him No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Co'our.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, a pure. Toilet Powder in Three
Tints — White, Rost., and Cream. Ask Chemi ti and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Article*,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
ť
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
FOR PRIVATE USE is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price —Single Razor,
10s. 6i.; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 la. Send P.O. Order.
CRA'Q & AI'KEH, Potosl Hair Catting Saloon.
— Nine Haircutters always Employed 1 ——
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
LICI1TNER & KILBURN,
318a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic m Stock Importers,
late Hclitiier A Co., 32 O’Connell Street.
T IOHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission into partnership of Mr. D. G. KILBURN, and removal into more com'
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. 318A GEORGE STREET, Between
Hunter Street and the General Post Office— trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage In the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavous to still deserve their
kind attention in the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318A GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Asimranoe Oompanlei.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Aot of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
Iso. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Subscribed £32 000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K C.B, Chair-
man ARTHUR BRACKET, Esq, F.I A,,
Deputy- Ch ail man.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest :
Fr 3 years .. 7 per csnt.
For 0 months 4 per cent
For 1 year .. 6 per cent.
For 3 months.. 3 per cent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate
seal of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with tr»n lerable Coup ms for INTEREST
payable HALF YEARLY attached, and giving
a FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including iti uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terim and
loans lepayable by instalments,
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed Rmts, etc , Collect'd.
Estates Sub divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract
Head Office—lo, &12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. 0. NEILD, Manager.
Hotel*.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
COMLEY’S HOTEL,
EMU PARK,
ROCKHAMPTON.
EKED. OOMLEY, Proprietor.
ACKNOWLEDGED the Finest Hotel on
the Coast. Overlooking the Bay, with
every convenience. Dining Hall 60 x 40.
Conveyance meets Eveby Tbain,
JMPERIAL HOTEL
EMU PARK,
William Toon ... Proprietor.
This First-class Hotel, close to Beach, has every
accommodation. Shower and Plunge Bath. Good
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits only Stocked. WILLIAM TOON.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street East.
This Well-known Sporting House Is conducted
In First-class Style. Every Convenience. Centrally
situated.
Mwwaww
KING'S V*EWS
Of SYDNEY,
JINOTAN OAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&0», &oi|
31S CEOKBE ST., Bitvtn Sutir-st M i 3.F 0.
BATTBESALE'S
lOlim COVSDLTITIOII
Are open npon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
14 Evening News.” Address, 44 Tattersairs,” care
of George Adams, TatteraalTs Club, Sydney. Per*
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to enjnre safe delivery,
tlso enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
(or reply and the other for result of drawing.
"Magic Meal,”
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
Stock and Poultry.
Extracts from Testimonials:—
G. S. Ybo, Esq., Mulgrave Stud Farm, near Windsor S
“ 1 tried the ‘ Magic Meal' on a horse bad With worm*
and be seems to be improving fast.”
Mr. H Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon: 11
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my oowe, St
the same time keeping them in good Condition.”
Robt. A. Sill, Esq., Butterbone, Macquarie River: “ I
tried the * Magic Meal' on a horse which would not fatten,
and now he is in grand condition. ... 1 consider it
of especial value, as it saves horse eed.”
Sold in Bags — 7lbs. 35., llflbs. 6s. 6d., 66lbs,
18s, 6d., and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0,
Parcels of 661b5., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Castlerbaqh Street,
SYDNEY.


WESTERN AUSTRALIA: The Coming Colony.
NOW is the time to invest your FEW POUNDS
TO REAP very shortly your THOUSANDS.
The eyes of the World are now on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where recent rich discoveries of GOLD, COAL, SILVER, TIN, and other minerals have been made, and with
RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT {a certainty) it may. with truth, be said, “AT LAST SHE MOVES!” BE WISE IN TIME !
secure an allotment in or near the CITY OF PERTH or PORT OF ALBANY, while you can get in ALMOST GIVEN TO YOU.
buyers, SYNDICATES, &c., from 410 to 420.000. WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
Call on the W. A. Asrcnts (G. W. DENT & CO.), and
Numerous Properties for Sale to suit LARGE and SMALL
11 ©si Bllz aToetTa. Str
\}\NL ONLY
&
a
G
&
o
£
6 V: _
*
Qi
%
Murder!
By the introduction of \ his B rand
cf Block Tobacco, mumfaotnred
from the finest of selected Virginia
crops by F. W. Saywell, of (i
Park street, it will
Arrest
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure Brairds now on
the market. Buy a block, im'ke
it, and you will avoid the nume-
rous poisons
Imprisoned
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought every-
where. Atk your Tobacconist for
it. If he dees not keep it seek
one who does and obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Retail from
F. W Saywell &. Co,
6 Park-s'reet, Sydney,
'viHVHSvi ‘■oisaaimvi
<r ia£os § EiNvasiaa
m
m
m
rtuiir
m
I m
&
mm
norT:
A att-IUSE. 1
3T
■
Is
A**
mprietoi
UE4UM mCIO-EHi Q MUas***-
A. DELIIISE *•
first-class hou^.
Wises, Freach Liqoen I Samoa Cigars t Sneialiif S. Basse, Csisise Fmtaiu.
*'•■«'•***■
Mi
rot
6 s
m
I
life
7i
7i
I 1
■““0
EUCTfilfl PHOTO-ENC. CO-. SBRIDCE-ST., SYONEti
The Oxford fiflote’, King Street, Sydney.
i-.y
H* THORPE ... ... Proprietor.
LEA & PERR I N S' SAUCE
Aut
Jn consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAtyCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have Jo request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
hears their Signature thus~~
without which no bottle of the, original WORCESTERS HIRE
SA UCE is genuine ,
(Ask for LEA and PERK ins' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper , Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, tr“c,, (src. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
NEWEST NOVELTY.
'
LiiuXJ Oij
THE
&
Patent diagonal Seam Corset,
Patented in England and on the Continent.
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen says:—“These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the
cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no
strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workman-
ship all that could be desired.”
liod Me?da“, New Zealand Exhibition, 1883
<;«»■«I Medal, Highest Award
For Oorsmts, London International Exhi-
bition, 1884.
Latest Award ! ! ! Gold Medal Interna-
tional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1886.
OAU I’lQN —Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N Corset is
stamped “ Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116,” in oval.
Sold by all Dbapkes and Ladies’ Odtfittkbs in the United Kingdom and Colonies
ŧ
ţ
WCT SitHMSI) TABU SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY,
imMABE otjshions, to., ma.de m the premises.
®M Tables re=Mt©<l by ©to ®wn msi.
JMMg o @ ; fflS,lA2Xiis stock, ala® ORICKEf 8 LAWN TENSIS&I®Wm
BURROUGHES & WATTS
JUST PUBLISHED.
"THE BULLETINS”
History of Botany Bay,
By Abthub Gatll.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED
BY
“ The Bulletin's’’ well-known Artists,
U Hopkins and Phil. May.
Price ... ONE SHILLING.
Per Poet, le. Sd. (except Queensland.)
BOLE AGENT FOB QUEENSLAND ;
J. H. THO M P S ON, Bookseller ;
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
dmK)
PIPES
The Baal In tha ■arid.
WHOLESALE AGENTS i
him HeUiidt S k,
CLARENCE STREET
PERTH
The Capital City of
WESTERN AUST ALIA.
The Best Investment Going I
GOOD BUILDING SITES
Paddington Estate, Perth,
From Jen Pounds •each Lot.
TEN POUNDS ! TEN POUNDS !
Only £1 Deposit; Balance in 36 equal Monthly
Payments. DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Early application will secure good Comer Lots.
Western Australia is rapidly progressing and
property is hardening in value.
Buy Now! Buy Now!
And reap Large Profits like early purchasers In
other Australian capital cities.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets post free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd,,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
W. J. Douglas ... ... Manager.
PATENT SCALE INDICA-
TOR, for pupils learning the PIANO.
££S e m£ s .V 6d . And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of MUSIC,
ss. 6d., posted to the Country from INGHAM’S.
Sydney Aroade. Country Agents wanted
Stationer’s.
ARBENZ’S RAZOR,
ť
WITH WARRANTED INTERCHANGE-
ABLE BLADES.
The best, most reliable and easiest Shaver in
the world. Used by Teddy Wick, the Champion
Barber, who, after his recent great feat in London,
wrote: —“Your Razors always kept me to the
front during the competition, and you may be
prcud of my well earned victory. They are a
great improvement on the old-fashioned Razors,
and I am delighted with their performances. The
harder the beard the better they shave. I shaved
some nights with them blindfold, and did not cut
one man all the week.
Price, 10s per set of four; 14s. per set of seven.
Extra Blades, Is, 4d. each.
May be had of LICHTNER & SOLOMON,
32 O’Cotnell Street, Sydney.
11HB CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMAL-
. GAMATING, AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY.
Works : CLYDE, NS W.
Hkad Officb : 46 CaSTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
Jambs Fletcher, M.P., Svdiey; Geo. R. Dibbs, M P.,
Sydney ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney ; T. D Merton, GunnirguWorks, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga ; P. Hann, Wagga
These works have been erected at large cost for
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description, furnishing gold-saving plant
and machinery, and for the erection and starting
of same, either by sale or upon shares with owners
of gold bearing properties on arrangement.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
apnreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together widh a complete assay and
analytical laboratory) will be under the imme-
diate direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suc-
cessfully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further information, apply
W B FLETCHER.
AUSTRALIAN
Mutual Fnmdsnt Society.
ESTABLISH HJID 1849.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
J P. ABBOTT, Esq,, M.P., Chairman.
JAS. R. HILL. Esq., Deputy Chairman.
J. T. WALKER. E q.
JOHN ARTHUR. Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Actuary :
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary ;
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
Chief Medical Officer : JAMES 0. COX, M.D.
The Society is now in its forty-first year, and la
the only Australian Life Office which gives
iMUAIi BONUSES.
Policies in Force, over 86,000
Sum assured (with Bonuses) over ... £33,000,000
Accumulated Funds nearly £X, 000,000
Annual Income £1,500,000
Cash Bonuses Divided £3,250,000
Cash Bonus, for one year, 1887 ... £357,000
Policies are NOT FORFEITED if the Surrender
Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.


DOWS
EMBROCATION
w
f tl'f I •
; if "
mi
'>£VF.R v WHERd-
3/6
JJIBBLB & COMPANY,
«K«« WKITISK
AND
—ART ++ DECORATORS
M Castlereagh Street*
One Doob pbom Kino Street.
B
R O U’S
INJECTION,
. HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE.
Cures l promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
CT , IP 3BQ 3R IR EJ .
fSuccessor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
MEN ONLY!!
Sufferers from Nervous
Complaints. Sure cure;
14 days Apply in confidence to “MEDICUS,”
Box 120, G.P.0., Sydney. Personal advice by
appointment, Free.
021111
I
BOWDEN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (near Hunter St.)> Sydney.
JOSEPH C. BOWDEN - ■ Proprietor
LONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
Toowoomba.
Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
Downs First-class Accommodation, Private
Suites, First-class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Company, Limited.
NCORPORATBD UNDER COMPANIES ACT, 1872,
CAPITAL £500,000.
Sydney Office:
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices —283, Collins Street East,
(next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Street,
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS;
3 months, 5 per cent.
6 „ 6 „
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months,
2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, l\ per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
DOBERT BUTCHER & CO.
11) have REMOVED their Wholesrle Wine
and Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst & Liverpool Streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
ROONEY & Co.,
SAW-MILLERS,
limber Xsrcbanta, sad Steam Joiners.
TOWNSVILLE.
Largest stock of Oregon pine and
Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &o, in
Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery A speciality.
Country & Station Orders promptly despatched.
KEEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE
SADDLE COMPANY, Limited.
Factory and Office—24s Castlereagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreak-
able Saddles is now carried on at our new premises,
245 Castlereagh street, Sydney, where trade orders
will receive prompt attention.
None Genuine without our Trade Mark.
CAUTION.
The sole right of the above patent having been
purchased by the undersigned, saddlers, and the
public generally are Cautioned against any in-
fringements of the same.
For Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
Limited —
F. C. HBDBMANN \
L. G. HENDERSON /
Trustees.
The federal reversionary
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL
COMPANY, Limited.
Incorporated under Companies’ Act, 1874.
CAPITAL, £200,000
SYDNEY OFFICE, 301 PI TT-STREET,
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate Advances granted Bills Discounted
daily. Communications from the country promptly
attended to. The following are the rates of in-
terest allowed on Fixed Deposit 3 Years, 10 per
cent.; 12 Months, 9 per cent. ; 6 Months, 8 per
ner cent. ; 3 Months, 7 per cent. By order of the
Board of Directors. A. W. MILLER, Manager
Join Rnmroin
(Lat c of Saywell's Tobacco OoJ,
Wholesale anil Retail
TOBACCONIST,
532 George Street
(Opposite TOWN HALL),
SYDNEY.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS, UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7id. per lb. (free
from seed), Cafe Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 80s. to 505., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters, Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frlll-
ings, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be bad at
LAWLER’S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible. •
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address—LAWLEß, SYDNEY,
J. LAWLER~& SONS,
Gbnbbal Impobtebs and House Fdbnishbbb,
SYDNEY.
Established 1889,
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PASS
EVERT FEW MINUTES
PALACE HOTEL
I
_w.
,-„i
RIIF
M-
' a '/.I
lir
man
■;■ »e
IH
g FF=PP^
iii
i
J.A.WILSON
PROPRIETOR
C.W.CLARE]
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
is
er NOW OPEN.
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Fixed Lavatory Basin, Hot andJGold Water, and Shampoo Spray.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatokies and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious Modern Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies.
m TWO PASSENGER OTIS LIFTS. "M
LADIES’ BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
Terns i UNSLE BSBEOOM, 2s. 6d. ser HISST
/ Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of
\ using me Public Booms o 1 the Hotel.
tS" MEALS can he had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MAN AGEE, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUTTHE COLONY
RTHUR D. SPALDING
HOMOEOPATH, ALLOPATH,
HERBALIST,
35 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET).
I have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and women
without the aid of nauseous drugs so pernickns to
the system and so objectionable to the palate. I
will guarantee a
COMPLETE CURE IN A FEW DAYS,
or will refund the money. Now what can be
fairer for both parties ?
The time Is over when, it was necessary
to use substances nauseous, such as Copaiba
and Cubebs, by which so many evils were
caused The diseases alluded to above are, as any
sane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (as I will prove) be cured by local treat-
ment, without the use of any Caustic, Styptic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &o,
I will not make you call constantly so as to pay
several fees. My terms are One Charge Only, or
Up country residents treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
communications treated as strictly confidential, g
Private Consulting Rooms and Laboratory,
Lvase Vjonsuiomg jv)om» auu uauurauucy,
35 BLIGH STREET, 3E3i
Hours 10 to 12 ; 2 to 4, and 7 to 9 p.m, j
NO CURE NO PAY.
p
U B L I O NOTICE,
To the
LICENSED VICTUALLERS, BREWERS,
and
GENERAL BUSINESS MEN
of Sydney.
LEONARD GWYN
has the pleasure to inform his Friends and the
General Public that he has commenced Business as
Hotel and ieneral Business Broker,
and trusts to merit a share of their support. It
is his intention to sell all classes of Businesses on
COMMISSION ONLY
He also wishes to draw the attention of his
future clients to the tact that NO CHARGE will
be made unless a sale is effected, and in the event
of a sale being completed the charge will be
STRICTLY MODERATE.
8 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS
(First floor),
PITT STREET.


High Abt Photogbaphy —For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
& 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Oarington
" By Appointment.”
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel Is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-leveL
N.B. —Only two hours from Melbourne.
iWBST BOKOIHA, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian " Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold Price, 3s. 6d.„
55., and 10s. Post free to any address to
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine,
FRANCIS LONGMORB, 138 Bonrke st., East,
HMBOPMg.
Run versus Oxygen.
Why Melbourne Men Go Down the Bay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbonrne'men of liberal principles and
advanced theology are rapidly developing a passion
lor trips “down the bay ” on the day that woald
be devoted to orthodox rest and holy meditation
If the opinions of the clergy were reverentially
regarded and upheld by law. Though not mari-
time in taste, and hitherto content to confine my
marine excursions to occasional pilgrimages on the
steam-ferry, r il allowed my friends to persuade me
to go down unto the great deep in a steamer on a
recent Sabbath, it being confidently asserted that
that was all I wanted to set me up.
The day wEs beautiful and the steamer well-
patronised, males predominating. Males generally
predominate beyond the home circle. I was struck
by the prevalence of gentlemen whose appearance
and bearing bespoke strong social and convivial-
instincts. There was a glow in the noses and a
veiled and subdued hilarity in the eyes that could
not fail to_ attract attention. As we floated down
the pellucid Yarra and the screw churned up the
fullness of its odours and shook the foundations of
the old river for all it was worth, so to speak, I
leaned pensively over the bulwarks and meditated
on the facial peculiarities I had noticed amongst
the passengers, wondering if sea-breezes had any-
thing in common with rum that enabled them to
Impart that brilliancy of tone and richness of
colour, and hanging desperately to my own olfac-
tory organ the while to prevent my reflections
being interrupted by the memories of death and
decay rising up from the river.
Presently I was touched on the shoulder, and a
short, circular gentleman, whose flesh bagged and
gave the impression of being tacked to a frame-
work which it didn’t fit, informed me with the air
of a man making a concession that “ It was a fine
day.” He then set his hat far back on his head,
stretched his arms some distance out of his clothes,
took a long, hungry respiration, and observed with
the enthusiasm of a man bolding a large interest-"
“ Grand this, sir ?”
“ Which ?” I queried.
“ Why this—this 1” And he reached his hands
round and clawed up samples of„the atmosphere.
“ Don’t you think it’s rather rich for an unedu-
cated palate—too varioul—too much of a hash
like 7” I ventured humbly, as became an amateur
who was liable to error. He told me he was not
referring to the odours, but the means of
the motion, the act of ploughing the deep, the
knowledge that we were bounding over the
billowy wave, free from the dust and tur-
moil of the city. I deeply regretted my
Inability to enthuse with him, he seemed so
earnest, but he was not hurt by my coolness; on
the contrary, he asked me down to have a drink.
I excused myself with the plea that I had my nose
to hold and couldn’t trust myself to hold any more
without assistance. He went below, and never
re-appeared on deck during the rest of the trip.
I had barely returned to my reflections before
another gentleman interrupted me. He was also
corpulent—abruptly and unexpectedly corpulent—
and carried himself like a bass-drummer in a
band. His hat was thrown back, he distended
himself, thumped the outlying district covered by
his vest, and said :
“ Glorious, eh, isn’t it 7”
" I dare say it has its advantages," I answered,
** but doesn’t it come inconvenient when you want
to climb a pole 7”
He hastened to inform me that he was not
alluding to his girth, but to the life on the ocean
wave. It was grand, he said, to be dancing over
the waste of waters, breathing the free air of
heaven, and all that. I ventured to dissent, and
drew his attention to the fact that the free air of
heaven had gone sour and begun to decompose,
and that dancing was contrary to rules, He
appeared pained by my lack of sentiment, and
went down alone to have a drink. He stayed
down for the rest of the day.
I remained on the spot till we were well out of
the river, and was interviewed by nearly every
male passenger on deck, all of whom were feeling
poetic towards the dark and deep blue ocean, and
all of whom eventually drifted below to get a
drink and forgot to come up again. This struck
me as being peculiar. It occurred to me that the
chief advantages of a marine excursion were not
available downstairs, and I wondered at those
enthusiasts disappearing from the scene just when
the marine element that so excited their admira-
tion was about to be introduced. When I could
trust my nose to hold itself, I spoke to an officer
about the matter. I asked him wasn’t it strange
on the part of those people to go below, who had
evidently started out with the intention of enjoy-
ing the full profundity of the heaving sea.
“ Strange! ” he said, with evident amazement,
11 No. What did they come for 7 ”
I presumed that they came to inhale the ozone,
and watch the wavelets dance, and indulge In the
Invigorating sea-breezes and things, and said as
much. The officer surveyed me with pityirg
compassion—said, well, he was for ever con-
demned, and turned away with ar look of settled
surprise. He must have thought there was some-
thing peculiar about me, because I detected him
pointing me out to his brother officers and several
of the crew, and I saw that in consequence of his
remarks I lost the respect of these men A little
later a sailor came up and inquired if I were an
Idiot or a foreigner. I appreciated his considera-
tion in leaving me an opening through which I
might escape from a humiliating disclosure, and
gratefully claimed to be of foreign extraction;
whereupon he seemed to be relieved.
I spent several hours watching the swell of the
ocean, and consuming as much ozone as possible
In order to get my money’s worth. I was very
lonely—the decks were deserted saving fo- one or
two mournful females, several draggled children,
and a long, gaunt, sombre individual in black with
his mouth tied up who sat in a secluded place,
and seemed from appearances to be in difficulties
trying to remember who he was and how he got
there. I became deeply interested in this monu-
ment, because he remained on deck, and because
the sailors seemed to regard him also as either a
lunatic or a foreigner who did not know enough to
conform to the rules of the country. I spoke to
him It took some time to recall him from his
laborious calculations regarding his identity and
whereabouts, and a longer term before he oouM
remember that he was a professor of something.
I was anxious to find out why he was aboard, and
If, like myself, and unlike everybody else, he had
shipped with no intention beyond a desire to
Indulge in a marine excursion, but his memory
was so long coming that he did not remember till
late in the afternoon when the vessel was return-
ing ; then he remembered all of a sudden. He
said that one of his sons—ho didn’t know which,
and afterwards was not sure it was not his
daughter—had swallowed a brass button, and he
had determined to take the youngster down to sea
In a ship in the hope that sea-sickness would inter-
vene and result in the dislodgement of the gar-
ment. He was so cheerful after this wonderful
(eat of memory that I had not the heart to tell
him that only an ass, and an ass that has mixed ir
poor society at that, would adopt such a means ol
foraging a button up out of a small boy. I asked
him now his experiment worked. He didn’t know,
he said—he had not noticed.
“And where Is the child, Professor?” I asked.
The long, gaunt man started, looked puzzled,
scratched his head, then arose and thoughtfully
felt his pockets.
“Why, bless my sonll” he muttered, after
looking carefully round, “if I didn’t come away
without the boy I”
I can truthfully assert that this was the only
interesting feature that that marine excursion
presented to me till dusk, when we were again
approaching the Yarra, By this time I had
determined to abstain from Sunday trips down
the bay for the future ; they were too lonely for
my taste. They appeared to offer every Induce*
ment in the shape of marine waterscape,
ozone, and salubrity, according to the contract,
but the lack of society and the retiring disposition
of the excursionists render them repugnant to a
man who loves communion with his kind. Soli-
tude hath her charms, but one does not anticipate
or desire solitude at a sea picnic ; there one looks
for refining conversation, rhapsodies, and quota-
tions from Byron.
Darkness was coming down and about, and the
flavour of the Yarra was again perceptible in the
atmosphere, before the excursionists began to re-
appear on deck, and the peculiar effects of a trip
down the bay on certain constitutions were made
The fat man who first interviewed me
was hoisted up the companion-way, carefully
balanced on end, and then left to his own devices.
He immediately surged in seven directions, grap-
pled with the atmosphete, toppled and pitched on
his nose. I have seen men do the same thing
when under the influence of intoxicants. After
an elaborate argument with the deck, the fallsn
man piloted his way to the side on his hands and
Natural'Nistory Notes
TMtCUCKOO<NrH C JOHN bullfinch's NEST
the lord mayor op london
MAE ORENE SUBSCRIPTION
fOR THE RELIEF CP S UPPER•
■ fdS BY FAMINE IN CHINA *
, o»/cv OAPtm
Tffe Cactroo reaPs r mom roneron mr> eces'm rps near? or other S/pos ,~rrm\
vvnf.n, HArCHSo.rnS roi/njr, .nmuosa twßoJSes rue at rennons or ms ostuoso roars*
mo r~/?,„//v 0 at me erP£» s< op th&r hatuhal orrspp.na t cpow »>» PtsmAPAAOue pa mart
*no uaTimArec ouars w£ fount, pam/lv mom tme.p l awcol Horns * m.mr: mannn.
knees, seized a rope, and succeeded at length in
hauling himself perpendicularly again. Tuen he
regarded me with a grave but bloodshot optic, and
Bald—
“ Thish ish gran, ishn’t ? (hie.) Shplendid I”
“ It is considered so by the highest authorities
in Parliament,” said I, wishing to encourage him.
“ Billery wavesh,” he continued, striking a
declamatory attitude and swaying in the breeze,
“ sV mighty deep, wish ma footsh shupon (hio-
oup-hic !j ma veshelsh decksh, I lovsh sha sea
(hie, whoop!) sha deep, deep sea!” Here his
feelings overcame him, and he went over back-
wards and rolled to some distance, where he deter-
mined to remain; and, after peremptorily com-
manding the dark and deep blue ocean to roll on
as if he were still supervising it, he fell asleep.
Most of those who came on the deck had symp-
toms akin to the above, and failed to give ade-
quate expression to their earnest admiration for
the wide, wide expanse of azure waters, in conse-
quence of a thickness of speech and a frequently
recurring and rib-racking hiccup I found the
desire to give utterance to their appreciation of a
sea trip very prevalent amongst the gentlemen,
though, and as they came up from below, they
invariably stopped to assure me in broken gut-
tural tones and with extravagant gesticulation
that their enjoyment of the sublime waste of
waters, the invigorating sea air, and the sense of
being afloat on the mighty deep, was too profound
for words.
“Siree!” said one dark gentleman of clerical
aspect, steadying himself by the lappel of my
coat, and waving his right hand impressively,
“thish ish a great an’ sublime (hie !) skewsh me, I
glory in Old Ocean. Heresh room (hie!) room to
tun here on the bosomsh of aha vashty deepsh—
room for aba intelleoah t’ eahpand here (hio!)
skewsh me, air, aha breezahah effectsh ver much
(hie oh ! hio up !I) ” And he leaned againat me
very affectionately, and quietly fell aaleep. I
laid him on the deck among the reat, with a
dawning impression that some of them had been
drinking. A few minutes later I went below, as
much to satisfy my curiosity as to avoid the
odours of the Yarra, the intensity of which is con-
siderably mitigated by their passage through steel
plates and three or four inches of mahogany.
Here the scene tended somewhat to confirm the
impression above recorded. A number of pas-
sengers were spread about in various stages of
incapacity, some feebly quoting Byron on the
heaving sea, and other poetic authorities on things
maritime ; and several exhausted barmen drenched
with perspiration were wearily clearing up the
wreckage of a general burst I retired to a quiet
place to commune with myself, and try and figure
up how much it cost the steamer caterers to
bribe M.’sP. into passing the Sunday Closing
Laws.
When we reached the wharf I was surprised to
find that we were anxiously expected by a great
number of persons, many of whom had brought
hand-barrows, wheel-barrows, oyster-trucks, and
other vehicles along. Amongst others who crowded
aboard I noticed one man who unceremoniously
grappled my fat friend, and started to tow him
ashore. I stopped him,
“ JDo yon know this gentleman ? ” I asked.
“ Rather 1 ” was the response, and the man
hauled his corpulent charge on to the wharf, and
dumped him into a barrow.
“What is the meaning of this?” I queried,
following him up.
“ ’T’s all right, guv’nor. His nibs pays me to
come down here on Sunday nights, an’ roll him
home,” and the man pushed his barrow, gaily
whistling “ Killaloe.”
I saw on looking round that this practice was
Pretty general; wives and sons, and hired men,
were eagerly and hurriedly fossicking out friends
and relatives from amongst the incapable?*, load-
ing them into cabs, carts, and barrows, and spin-
ning them off to their various destinations. The
ship’s steam-winch was rattling away, hauling
enervated passengers up from below, and swinging
them over the side on to the wharf, where they were
received by their friends, who signed a voucher or
bill-of-lading or something to that effect, and
carted them away. A few moments of excitement
and rush, and all was over ; lights faded out,
silence and darkness intervened, and I remem-
bered myself and went home, satisfied to know
why Sunday trips down the bay are popular, and
passing seventeen policemen on the way, who had
seventeen lynx-eyes fixed on seventeen pubs., on
the qui vh-e for Sunday trading. N.B.—A police-
man only uses one eye.
ViC.
B!g crop of young lawyers coming on In
Svdney! But what will the harvest behe-ee!
What will the ha-a-r-vest be e-e 1
Mr. J. P. T. Caulfield, the erstwhile Boy
Politician, has commenced business in Pitt-street,
Sydney, in the auctioneering and hotel-broking
line x As he possesses the two essential qualifica-
tions of an auctioneer—a fluency of speech which
we envy and a stupendous cheek before which
we bow down in mute reverence—he should make
his pile at an early date.
For civility, comfort, and all the luxuries
of a really first-class establishment, the Grand
Hotel, Wynyard-square, cannot be surpassed. It
is supplied with splendid elegant
suites of apartments, and unrivalled liquors, and
is fitted up with every appliance invented by
moderncivilisation to make life pleasant. The
cuisine is second to none in Sydney, and no effort
is spared to make the patrons of the Grand Hotel
thoroughly oomfortabe.
Ye little birdie that ye Poet Parkes loveth
best Is ye little Bturdekln.
Editor Winter, of Melbourne Herald,
speaks of his paper as the “ trusty, moral sentineE
of the public. “ Scentinel ”he means.
The Ibaliannoble family of Frangipani claim
descent from one of the Apostles who broke bread
{frangere panem, hence the name) at the Last
Supper. The Bulletin’s idea of most noble
families that it used to play marbles with in its
roitous youth is that if they were demanded from
any of the Apostles it was from J. Iscarm<s
By a recent rale of the N.S.W Supreme
Court Judges all oaths must be taken before a
Commissioner for Affidavits. In order to comply
with this regulation a Western litigant had t©
travel 80 miles before he could embrace a Bible
and swear. A Justice of the Peace was his neigh-
hour, but the oath he administered was refused.
This is the first recorded instance of a bush man
swearing with difficulty.
The Mayor of Christchurch (N Z.) having
been asked to preside over a meeting, convened
for the purpose of expressing sympathy with
Parnell, prayerfully considered the matter for
many days and then declined in book form. Hi®
chief reason seems to have been a desire not to
disturb the peace of Jturope, and a grovelling fear
that the British monarchy would immediately
dissolve were it known that so important a>
functionary and so large eared a man as himself
had presided at such a meeting.
The new critic on the Sydney Echo says :
A gathering of Mr. Forsyth’s friends informed him
yesterday that, “ as a bowler, a private citizen, and «.
commercial man, he stood high with them all.” A
graceful tribute truly, but does it not savour of ante-
climax ?
That does not savour of anti-climax. It savour©-
of the incongruous, perhaps, and of the men-
dacious, for all we know, but there is no anti-
climax. The words standing in revised order
would savour of the literary blemish the Fch®
has In its head.
Canon Kemmlsidol, the Bishop of Lincoln,
regarding whose “ persecution ” for ritualism so
many tearful letters are appearing in the column*
of the Sydney press just now, cnce had attached
to his diocese a well-known sporting character
named the Kev ‘' Jack ” Russell. “Jack” used
to attend race-meetings, follow the hounds and
generally indulge in very unclerical diversions-
which at last drew a reprimand from the ishop.
The admonition, however, had no effect, as may
be imagined from the fact that the
parson at once proceeded to name bis pair of car-
riage-horses “ Hypocrisy ” and “ Bishop of
Lincoln.”
Colonel Keogh, an American
happened to be in Charleston, South Carolica, re-
cently, and was politely shown over the town by
an ardent Democrat of colour. It was a beautiful
evening. The conversation naturally drifted into
politics, and Colonel Keogh was frequently assured
by his Democratic friend that ‘ Since the wah*
sah, the people of the South had nothing to live-
fob. ” At last they reached the Battery; and the-
colonel, looking out on the beautiful moonlit bay,
grew tired of hearing his guide's complaints, and
exclaimed, “ Well, you gentlemen of the South
have much to be thankful for—a most productive •
soil, a magnificent climate and—that moon ; jusfe
look at that moon ! ” For a moment the South
Carolinan was silent; but he rose to the occasion.;,.
and replied, “Oh, of course dere’s some truth in
what you say, sah; but you ought to have sees
d tt moon before de wah ! ”
Dear Bulletin, —The Americans propose
a tax, on arrival, of “Unintending Citizens.
This is just splendid. Now, I don’t want to pro-
mote roguery ; so, if you think this letter will have -
the same effect on intending O.MG.’s as the
“ Thieves’ Pocketbook ” had on some youngsters ■
at Home, confine the contents to your own brain
and o insign the epistle to “ all sorts of dogs ”
{Homer). If the Freetraders want to know tho
meaning of the wrinkle, this is it; Suppose a poor
man, with or without a conscience, lands in
America, and finds he can save £1 by pretending
or declaring to be an “Intending citizen,” he will
be waited upon (as I was) by a member of some
ring. This plausible individual will tell you
that if you keep quiet till about a week before the
next elections (municipal or senatorial) you can bs
made a citizen without going through the trifling
formula of residing two or three years in the
States, and, moreover, you will get free lager for
a week. Having secured you and some dozen
o 'hers, you will be yarded at the town hall or
some other place of worship. An acrobat wilL
run through the yard, holding up a small book
and yelling Shawnee or Sioux Indian whoops, mh3
out you walk, sign your name, and you are safe
under the flag of Uncle Sam. Someone has gone
bail for your residence and character, and except
in the signature you are not particeps criminis
Yours, &c , Hibam Abipf,
Bishop Had field, the new “ Primate ” of
N.Z., is a ’aughty and baustere old gentleman.
He recently served out a parson to the Anglicans
of the Lower Hubt whom they did not relish..
They prayed he miurhtbe removed and a l*y reader
appointed. The B shop refusing, they stopped
supply. Then Hadfield arose and cursed them
lavishly, removed the obnoxious cleric and
shut the church altogether. Now, when an
Anglican Huttße dies, he has to find his way
aloft, or vice-versa without a shepherd, also un-
told babies are yelling because there is no
one) bo christen them, and young couples
finding no pastor to bitch them are slowly
pining and dying. In short, the autocratic fisher-
man has debarred the Hutt folk of all religious
privileges. This reminds us of a proceeding of
the late Colonel Craigie (then Major, 19ch Hussars)?
A man paraded for church with dirty appoint**
ments Said Craigie: “Dash and double dash
you, sir, you’re too dirty to be allowed to worship.
I’ll stop your religious privileges, confound you ! ,9
So he marched the Hussar to the church door and
halted him outside and there he stopped till
service was over. When next George of Cambridge
inspected the regiment the man reported to him
that his religious privileges had been stopped.
The Duke said: “The they have 1 ” Mad©
inquiry and remarked to Craigie, “Oh, d it.
Major, give the fellow kit drill, but you mustn’t
stop his infernal religious privileges. That’s—
that’s damnation itself, you know.


Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
'&UBRICAN DISPENSARY 48 MARGARBC BfBBBII
IBrtwssn Merge ud Yerk Streets.) )P.O. Bex 111. Dri
yposr to • regular Graduated Physician, educated el
ffmm College, U.I. (lei eenarmatlen sea Maw Ssaland
•aeette, January flat, 1888 1 atoe New South Wales
faaette, April ITth. 1888). the doctor has dueled 11
glass te Ike study el CHRONIC. NERVOUS, AND
SfBOIAL DISEASES. Peur el these were in the leading
fpfagiiaia el the United Stales, which enables him te treat
111 eimplaints with excellent results. All applying te
If will reeelre his honest opinion ot their semplainte.
flit experimenting | no Mercury need. He will guarantee
t positive rare In every case he undertakes, er lerlelt
f—. Mis reason tor doing so Is this—when there Is no
IlfMin disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
It other words, a conglomeration ol symptoms producing
0 oortaln result, there Is no reason why it cannot be re-
Moved with the proper remedies, therelore he guarantees.
Bl wishes It distinctly understood that he does net olalm
10 psrlerm Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
M piaims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly interned In his speciality—OHßONlO amb
iimOBAL DISEASES or MEN and WOMEN. People
jjgyiji»g ||« distance can, by explaining their troubles In
fllfii be treated at home. the course ol treatment will
not la any way Interlere with their business. Examina-
tion and aivlss tree to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
gran, E2.D., Of Margaret Street, between George and York
gilists, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. BSO. Office hears,
10 o.m. to 11 a.m. | Ite 0 and Tte 8 p.m. Sundays Irem
11 to 11 a,m. only.
BRIDGES
FOOD
m WANTS AND INVALIDS
VKmm #Ta enormous sale in England
ffiiafl is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
XtrepyStorekeeper shouldgeta supply,
mm ow9TY wise mother will certainly
use It.
PR.RTPSK'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
. LONDON, ENGLAND.
t
"■■nr in m
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
IH1,” fee the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DE-
Kindred Dlteetea, Ito, A copy of
mu book will be tent Free, tealed, tor Bis Fenny
•tenet. Addrett—
B WARD fc 00.,
Sydney Fhermeoy,
ys Hunter Street Sydney.
I I I f BBSIBTATIOt
Da. J. D. Bi.Bwai.Eyw
Specialist
!• BoaaoAiij Bsaaiv Bab*. Maanona- >
Bhlslwork'J* a medical treatise .dossrlblng «
cnrately, lalthlully and concisely the Function
Disorders* 1 and Diseases arising from excesses, l.
discretions and other Enervating Influences
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advi.
am health, aad replete with valuable aad tangle
rtoHfwartnn that Is of Incalculable use to •
sufferers. from Nervous, Debilitated aad On
fldentlal Complaints.
lor thejhenefit ol all who desire a speedy •»
sellable .curative treatment without the aU -
«nacks.
Price per mall Is. Cd. (any loloaial stamps), *
be had of all'booksellers or the Otto i*nbh*»‘
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne
BI
EuCALVPTE Ou-sa.
THE TREE OF LIFE
Victory Ointment^
MT Sfea Ciif. fwe Emcalypt* la thtlWwUk
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jnbllee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
bltlon, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Srtfcnn, Bronchitis, Oousmuptlon, Pleurisy,
galdt, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Iwii also, for Gont, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
S*du VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
Mt a rival for Bad'Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
■wnonrs, and Skin Diseases of all kinds. Also,
inlMtnrers of the Eucalypte Pills, Enoalypte
> Restorer, Enoalypte Soap, and our world-
id Eucalypte Honey Is the best preparation
More the public for young children and aged
mroplfl Also, makers of the,Enoalypte Lozenges
8m the Voice. Manufactory—Oootamondba.
Ivlney Wholesale Depot—227 Bmzamth-btbmt,
ifeated to any pact of the Colonies. Bold Every
Business Announcements,
'-T*S
u
fUCltft IF
lOTSCAPS&c
T
SYDNEY
i JL&*}tt{*rv
Branch 5
6 7’B GEORGE STREET.
BBIOKPIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Altkens. )
A MV onderful Discovery
Rose's Celebrated 5 Eye Lotion.
* ■> r
This valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure swelling and
Sandy Bll&lit, Inflamed Eyes and Elds, Dimness
ol Sight, etc. It will be found very beneficial and cooling
to those who have weak eyes, or whose work compels them
to strain their eyes. Highly recommended by ihe leading
[mm . "1 .Oculists., i—-» **« - H mm
/-.■« t The public are requested to notice the
caution ! words, « ROSW’S CELEBRATED EYE
LOTION,” with ti e Trade Mark (a Hose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
“ ROSS’S CEL&miEOI STS LOTUS,
Not for Rose Eye Lotion,
as you will get a Lotion compt sed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
B, A, BOSE, Oispnting & Hmfistutiag Chemist,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. (By post, 3s. 6d )
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTH AN’S, GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
ERVOUS DEBILITY.
Consult by letfcer| Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addressed 4d. stamped envelope, forward Advice
and his Medical Book Free. Address—
Heeb RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends. Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 58 Sydney A rcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency). I? ~ 7
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world
E.B.H. having established Agencies m all parts
of the Globe, he is In a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 53 Sydney Arcade.
r
t
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
■
.
p**
/\UCH
INC
po
MB
asgafa
UfACTURED BV -A
<JjM£S C//M/VOAT cftarLoirrS* & \
Sold, hu <*.11 $ SSorcAffoArro y
Medical.
A 'SfOiDEIFBL IIDICWi
iEECHAM’S
PATENT
PILLS.
Asa miyasaially *d-
mittsfl to bs worth
& Game® a Box lor
Bilious and Herron*
Disorders much u
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling:
after Meats, Diari-
noss sad Drowsiness,
Cold Chilis,Flushings
of Heat, Doe* of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Oootireness,
Scurry and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Breams, and all
Herrons and Trenab-
feg - E&aftfflfttiona. Ac. Tli* first doss will fiv® relict*
STfb \M&y minutes. .
Buffer® is earnestly mnted to (ary ona
tm. fee®* Pin* wid they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX,
Dte fissaMaa o t MI ages theee Pill* are Invafuabie.
C 3 Q Saw dose* of them carry off all and
about all that ia required. No female ehouid
ka tjat&snt them. There i* no Medicine to be found
CspsoJi 6® Beeoham'a Pilia for removing any” o bate-no-
?ss3 ts irregularity of the ayatem. If taken accor»
Stef? fe® the directions given with each box, they
vHf asss. restore females of all agea to ec*uad and
health. This has been proved, by thousands
w&bd tov® tried them, and found the benefit* which
esc* sacused by their use.
r te* a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and an
of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
Seer Sosaa will be found to work wonder* on the most
organs in the human machine. They
yifeaagthen the whole muscular system, restore, the
teagisat complexion, bring back the keen edge of
te, and arouse into action with the rooebud
m aaatUi the whole physical energy of the human
tesaa. These are Pacts testified continually, by
of all classes of society, and one of the
hset guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BSDSu HAM’S PILLS have the Largut Std» »f »ng
Medicine in the World,
H«B3ham’s Magic Cough
ha & remedy for Coughs in general, Ac&hma,
SsfaaahiM Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness at
SSssath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
4c., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
uro sJkabest ever offered to the public and will
remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
aßSSj* »f breathing, which nightly denriv© the
wa&aat of rest. Let any person give BSjBOHAM’S
&STOH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
wM a sa. * short feme be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and by
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Hstes, Lam-
gcaMr®, England, in boxes Is. lid. and Sa, M, each,
l&atfl by all Druggists and Patent Msd&stae
SSseSaM everywhere.
S?ca,=“Fnll directions are given with IsSfe
rfIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Branches;
54 piTT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Fald-np Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
Ihvonghont the United States of America and
Oanada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
ţ
ť
ŧ
CONQUERS DISK A Si!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
ppoordlug to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
N« Mom MERCURY ob othbb No lion O
Stomachic Contaminations.
mr. T. C. VRIiHTp
M. 8., Oh. M., &0.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kldne>, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
Ibe Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising In Australia who
holds,; the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
“ Ttiterian Preenuive Medical Inatltata,”
fS. FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
lei the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Net-
fetal Debility, Ohronlo and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Srnptlons, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affee-
liens, Oenlto Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If It la curable, ha
will tell you so I If not, he will tell yen also, for be will
aet undertake a case unless he Is confident of effecting a
sure. It will cost yon nothing for consultation, so satisfy
roars ’ that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE,
teierers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8. —1 wish It distinctly understood that I do not claim
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
i A.i™ only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly Informed In my speciality.
Note Address—
P&0I&E3SITB MEDICAL HTSIITHTK,
51, FUNDBBH STBin W., IfMBOBBNB.
mr Ho tmtuotion with any other Medical institute in
Australia Bex 111, 9.F.0.
FOR BALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Applf
Easiness Announcements,
dalness’fe l*tra Stout.
final QUALITY.
t
lass's Pale Ale.
80LB PURVEYORS CO cot
WSUOMIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
Bf Special Appointment
WHOLESALE A9MNTB
Balchin, Johnston and Go.,
sukinlal Clumbers. Bead-Street* Sydaes
■•-K'JfACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
V PORTERS OFAUTHC
nEWEST shapes.
And at ALBERT *TREKT, BRISBANE.
D.
f* U S T PUBLISH
CjP A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND \
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable la
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES, I
For Its Hygienic Rales are worth Its welght r la
gold. Send yonr fall address, and we will send Poet
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six Month!
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Sorry Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sidnht Bu&una,
Tasmanian Edition, Fabllshers ■ ■ FITE*
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
la advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence paa
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
“ The Bulletin will be on sa e every Friday at
the office, George Street, or from the runnerc la
the street.
fi. STEPHENSON
HAS oa BALD-
WINS OASES, BREWERS' OASES, VATS,
BUM, SHERRY, It WHISEY PUNCHEONS, g
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS STABLE
BUOEETS, fto,
COOPERAGE,
IST EBNT STREET, and ITi SUSSEX STRESS
Between Eing and Market Street*
r
HOBHC LLAS
HrCOVERta
JO it I tCO(H»
o —*
4M*rmrVsit»«U< tnM
•ftwdL tod row
tw*il>n»to«<l uA
toffev.tt
J. SULLIVA
mi C«ofi» Bam
MAMd HilL taka
UwM mAMmo*
“JTUR ERAMINB A PICTURE NEAt
AND WELL."
DBIBNABD’B PIOTUBI and MOUkDUMt
• Siou, 889 Oeorge-atveet (opposite Royal
Hotel), la acknowledged to be the Best and
Oheapeat la the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
Ac., carefully ataetehed and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts eat with veal gold edgest
Special atteatloa paid School Drawings. Pinal)
work a speciality. Inspection Invited.
WB CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(from Puia)
Ladies' and OiKnEum'i
Hairdressing Saloon
An the most central and well-appointed of any
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and Bnglish Perfumery. Toilet Requisite*)
Private Booms for Dyeing the Hair,
NOT! THE ADDRESS—
B 6 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank!.
MELBOURNE,
FOR BALE.— Two grand Water Frontager,
Parramatta mm* I«m Ovm Bl*m Abpli ,


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON HAD!
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30a. to 31a.
*49 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Near Tatteraall’a.)
Porpoise Hide Weans Twice as Long as
any other leather,
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
JET LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
MASON BROTHERS,
(lihitkd,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and 00.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ala.
ţ
P. B. liARKIN,
IMFOBTKB OF
**■ WI3STEIS, SPIRITS, BHBRS &0., &0,
George and Glpps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson's Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old) ; W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
Tkh Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
UT The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes, \ll Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottlbd Alx and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' EElmimf ROOM ad LA7ATDH,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hoedebn & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - G-ipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales' Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, EEEE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS
BEHAN’S
Black Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
DB, UTILE & IS.
Will make Hair Qrow over Oldest Sears
Awarded SILVER MEDAL. SYDNEY, IISI.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FREES
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS.
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, BAND
and QUARTER ORAOK, ITOH and MANGSf
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE.
MBNTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Bedfern.
Wholes alb •
Elliott Bros., Australian Drag Co., S. Hoff bub*
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co-, W. H. Simpson
and Son, 883 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Stdnbt ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Brisbane ; E. Fletcher, Jaw.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
J. BEHAN, V.S., 3S Pitt Street, Betters*.
PRICE ... Ss. 6d, Per Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country In the oiivllsed world whsrs
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not haws
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their benefioient action is at onet
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their nes
In every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nrw Oiford-st., London, 43T Pay.
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Petr.
It the address is not 62S Oxford-street; London, they s»
spurious.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
Wertnetm
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
, THE
Wo/seley Sheep Shearing Machine
PASTOB/ALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season,
A«ENT«t
T. TX. O-EDIDEIS dz, Co.,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Workvng Man’s Watch, Made suitable for Sard Siding and Rough Wear and specially
rated for the climate, Supercedes all other English Levers ever introduced into this market .
TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY.
Wholesale ifenti:
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, SythMV.
Perdrlau & Co«
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURER8 P
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Rabbet Vakvib. Wabhbbs, Gabkhts &0., Ac. Moulded to any Size. Rubber Food* for all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
AMERICAN
WATCHES
■RfVECH CP
£ •y n *K •
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
■{,}■
tST Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed*
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order,
Bvery Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S.A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Oases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Ohbonoobaphs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Pbesentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “No. 1 Size" just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches, Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Ohbonoobaphs and Minute Rboobdbbs. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers,
*
fa
WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
