

AMERICAS WALTHAM WATCHES.
S »2E
SjS!E«I C?
rfe
1 * T ®„, M %
<:■
The Best
in the World I
Haw obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIEST PBIZES at every Internationa Exhibition where they have competed.
of the American Waltham Watch Co Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
anyl^T^fXref^^^
of vatatuTMntZfy °“ ° bb "” ed ““ “ d *<** a^ante^standard
smSfand'SSt yeVmlde' *“ Außtral " “ the '““ t ““i™ l ® som of topological
Sou,h WaK Victotia ’ a ” d
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
S“ la~mI a ~m “ ”“™ IS * —^—■
” altham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
0
H
CHR
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENCY,
Waltham Bi3.ina.jjg.gs, Bond street. Sydney.
cr~A. » w- .*-• »rr-y t
Lever Brotliers, “ Sunlieriit Soan” ivrFimifs=iotn^T.«
0^ P raZl{ 0 rraißDPM^^P?nnd°(^ P K tddSif to the S^lS^^lZES^nK 16 TTI “ Austr f alasia '” . FIRST PRIZF , -Five Pounds (£5); SECOND
Children Under Fourteen Years of age— One 405., two 205., four 10s., four 5s With each list a Senttcut p ** e p7 en tFe wmretit!|b from the words “Sunlight Soap,” for
th» tot IS the work of the child, and the name of the school at which the child attend.. ' Lists to to sent in no“later“S 3oth^d^seYLEVß K' ‘“ e ”*
BUEROUCrHES & WATTS
(LONDON),
Billiard-Table Manufacturers,
K •
•A.ll Requisites for the Grame. —~~
Also Lawn Tennis, Cricket & Football.
8 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
} Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Workers
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with RRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description m
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and aU appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
Established
1846.
LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY.
Established
1815.
Conducted under the Official Supervision of the Insurance Department of the Government of the State of New York. Reports deposited annmdlv win, m j • /w . „ .
in accordance with “The Life Assurance Companies Act, S” 1 annually with the Board of Trade in Great Britain,
Life Assurance Only. Purely Mutual.
All Profits belong to Policy-holders, and Apportionments are made annually.
STATEMENT foe YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER 1888
ACCUMULATED I'UNDS ... n, Q
SURPLUS over Liabilities by the New York State Standard of Valuation (4 per cent. Actuaries’)
INCOME FOR YEAR.... .... .... .... .... £5 226
Actual Rea-ults.-Tlie following Policies were taken out on the following plan at the London Office of the NEW YORE LIFE INSTTRATSTPT? rnvrPAiw •
matured in 1887, were then paid COMPANY m 1872, and having
Plan—15-YEAR ENDOWMENT—15-Year Tontine Investment.
Nora. The Policy-holder in each case has been insured against death during the fifteen years, and being alive at the maturity of the Policv mn'fJ nm • 7 . . , , ,
all the premiums paid, with nearly five per cent, compound interest ; thus his insurance during the fifteen years cost him nothing. * 1 cy ’ 8 « W!WI< equivalent to the refund of
Tire Nonfoi feiting Free Tontine Policy includes the advantages of the Tontine principle of accumulations isecnrino* vdimhiA f , ■ . . . ...
low cost), guaranteed options at end of Tontine periods, and perfect freedom after two years as to residence, travel and occupltion (JLpt iSrtw Vin SSSTdSSh’h? msuran f at
gaging in nulitary or naval service m tune of war, the reserve value of the policy will be paid. For full particulars apply to * P 06 rJ ' in 03,86 ot death b y reason of en-
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOItsTID STREET CHAMBEES
SirXJTsTE^.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
■iikgiiiLPiißl
iii ini m
u i
i <
Jl f f »a 5
<> a .a
■ it
OIXSOPSONS
❖
C 3
o
Z 3
o
yr
x
o
9ov\
SIR ROGER
50
£
CD
r
ißi
7
DIXSONS
Or.RIDGE’S
FOOD
foe INFANTS AUD INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
OR. RIDGE S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON. ENGLAND.
“Can’t B Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par ex-Mence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “ Can’t B Beat.”
Something New ! Something New t
The Si Package. “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
i3f Smoker's Companion I W
containing the following :
11b. 'Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
lib. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacco
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. IBs Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
1(H) Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Llectro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 MeerschaunL and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long Cut, American
C# Delivered Free at Redeem Station or any Wharf-on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved 1 50 per cent, saved I Note the address:
81 Clarencs St., Wynyard square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings,
MICK SIMMONS
“Can’t B Beat," Hatmaekkt, Sydnit.
KITTEXBERG& CO.
IMPORTERS,
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON'S CELEBRATED
EATJ DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Ofatt Dealer* and of the Manufacturer *—
J. & K. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
WILLIAM 9
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
Kr IS the only perfect SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST. “^1
■ : y.
V '
Bread, Test Cakes, Pastry, &c.,
ARE
Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH
Willia ms’ Australian Yeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound.
PERRINS SA
AuC
jfn consequence of Imitations of THE WORC ESTERS HI RE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers that the i bottld
bean their Signature, thus*-*
without which no ofthqoriginal, WORCESTERSHIRE
'•SAUCE is genuine
Ask for LEA anPPE RRI NS* Sauce, and see Name'on WrapOer, Label, BoftU and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Cross* and
Blackwell, London, 6r*„ (re. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
Year ending
Oct., 1885.
/Subscribed Capital .. £180,425
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 61,620
Deposits Received
Advances Made
Total Income
93,581
123,248
200,106
Year ending
Oct., 1886.
£350,000
120,000
261,500
247,840
451,085
Year ending
Oct., 1887.
£481,125
206,685
391,356
307,828
797,990
Tear ending
Oct., 1888.
, £580.000
251,015
. 1,123,949
625,826
. 2,048,951
Deposits received at following Rates :
12 months, 7 per cent.; S months, 5 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.
Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH.
To persons who desire to pnt by
small sums of uncertain amount,
and who wish to secure,lnterest
upon such sums at a Fair Rate, and for EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five per cent, per Annum
upon their Daily Balance.
Ample Funds for Borrowers. Terms Liberal.
irm
Building 1 Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MEI.BOUBNE.
£2s Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in
Cash. The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received
in October, 1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had con.
tributed only £l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years,
■ -I =
Hon. John Himmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary.
■/■--SI
r
m
I;!
=i«M
ES&gIH
B’pipiipai3ii' T -if aw &.
l v 1
i ' 1111 CP
the federal Coffee Palace,
CORNER OF
wing and Collins Streets, Melbourne,
Containing Five Hundred and Sixty Rooms, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES OP ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
Special Dining Saloon far Ladies, sumptuously famished, with Cuisine and Table Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL on GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent MM, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING & RECEPTION ROOMS.
Hot, Cold and Shower Bat Ha.
Night Porter always in Attendance. Telegrams and Letters promptly attended to.
George Cohen
Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol. 1C- No. 490
SATURDAY, AUGUST 31, 1889.
Price, 6d.
ţ
Save Us from Our Friends.
VULTURE: “ COME UNDER MY WIND AND I’LL DEFEND YOU.”
LAMB: "WHAT WILL IT COST?”
VULTURE: “OH, NOT MUCH—A POUND OR TWO OF YOUR WOOL TO FEATHER MY NEST WITH, SO TO SPEAK !"
LAMB; “THANKS. YOU’RE TOO FOND OF MUTTON TO BE TRUSTED.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
‘Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
’UBLI3HED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... £lO 0
Ha)f -yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will caref ully read and acknowledge in hie
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Sewspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly con fident,al.
“ The Bulletin” ivillreturn all unavailable MSS. when
the address is siiecified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undci stand that
ire are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
*
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
ran bare The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
In the hands of our carriers, with whom ice do not wish
to interfere.
Y V
J /h x? //£?7y /Y)
SjS J&JSbJ L/*
SATURDAY. AUGUST 31, 1889.
The Plot Thickens.
Are Australians willing to sink into a race of
Helots ? If not, it is full time that they
roused themselves effectually and recognised
the web of conspiracy which is steadily and
stealthily being woven around them. It
matters very little whether the subtle ac-
tivity which has of late been developed,
has been due to a conscious purpose or to a
mere tendency of the age. With deliberate
plan or by sheer instinct of acquisitiveness, a
course of aggression upon the liberties and
property of Australians has been, but too
evidently, entered upon by the predatory
class in Great Britain which aims at making
the world, or as much of it as is assailable,
tributory to its aggrandisement. It is not
in these latter days a mere lust of conquest
for the sake of " glory ” or to wreak the ani-
mosity of one despot against another, which
actuates the movements of British power.
The age has become in England one of sheer
commercial adventure. Everything is mea-
sured by the profit it may yield. Syndicates
of capitalists send their emissaries over the
face of the earth —like Satan —seeking what
they may devour. It was but a few days ago
that the operations of these gentry, in ran-
sacking the United States for going manu-
facturing concerns to gobble up and re-sell
at a profit, w ere particularised by cable. At
an earlier period a national rising in Egypt
w r as crushed, lest the Fellahs, once emanci-
pated from the ruler who sold their labour
and hypothecated the fruits of the toil of
generations yet unborn, in order to indulge
his monstrous extravagances, should repu-
diate obligations equally immoral and un-
just. Ireland has been throttled and man-
acled lest absentee landlords and London
Corporations should be deprived of that
pound of flesh which they cut periodically
from the quick and quivering body of the
writhing nation—even as the Abyssinian
savages slice steaks from the living cow and
turn it loose to heal its wound and put on
fresh flesh. Burmah was exploited for its
mines of rubies and its yet more profitable
wealth of a docile and industrious people,
accustomed to submit to toil and to be plun-
dered of the fruits of their labour.
# * #
The turn of Australia now arrives. There
is repentance and gnashing of teeth in
London. The coteries of exploiters have
at length appreciated the prodigious mistake
made by their predecessors of twenty-five
years ago and earlier. These had flung to
the despised exiles of Australia two-thirds of
a continent, believing the gift valueless.
To-day it has dawned upon them that
whereas it was conceived that a worthless
pebble had been bestowed, it was in truth a
jewel of great price which was then conferred
upon Australian settlers. To the people of
New South Wales was presented a territory
comprising one hundred and ninety-eight
million acres, conjectured at the time of dona-
tion to be worth less than nothing per acre.
That is to say, it was land wdiich no man
would till for the benefit of another. To
touch it, one had to exile himself from all
that made life seem worth possessing—from
parents, from friends, from the sound of
loved voices, from the grasp of friendly hands,
from female society, and the conveniences of
civilisation. To Victoria was flung fifty-six
millions of similar land ; to South Australia
five hundred and seventy-eight millions ; to
Queensland four hundred and twenty-seven
millions. And each of the recipient popula-
tions was exhorted —much in the same spirit
that Sally Brass insisted that the Marchioness
should evince enthusiastic gratitude for a
meal of broken victuals—to appreciate the
generosity which prompted the concession.
# * #
Gradually it has dawned upon donor and
recipient alike, that there was more value in
the gift than either had at first imagined. As
this consciousness waxed, so did the virtuous
self-laudation of the donor increase and his
demands for gratitude rise. Presently it was
not mere abstract gratitude which was claimed.
Sally Brass began to demand from the Mar-
chioness positive recompense. Great Britain
has for some time been apprising Australia
that some return is expected for the benefits
showered upon the latter. This attitude has
at length become emphatic, and now threatens
to be distinctly aggressive. Having at length
comprehended nearly the full extent and
scope of her accidental and unintentional
generosity, Great Britain throws aside all
hypocritical pretences, and openly renounces
the role of the free-handed benefactor. The
solicitation of the Western Australian settlers
for a gift of the territory on their side of the
continent is resisted in downright earnest,
and with undisguised acerbity. The Times,
that conscienceless tool of the exploiting
caste, unreservedly denounces former con-
cessions of Australian territory as a blunder,
and blusteringly declares that it is a folly
which shall not be repeated. The Pall
Mall Gazette follows in the same vein,
rallies the British people upon the mistake
which had been made when they parted with
" their territory ” to a lot of colonists, and
warns them against pursuing a policy devoid
of sagacious selfishness.
* # #
The retrospect has been the more aggrava-
ting for the tardily enlightened exploiters,
because it exhibits a perfect infatuation of
blundering. The case has not merely been
one of giving away something enormously
valuable under the impression that but a
trifle was conferred. It has been complicated
by the Pharisaic pretence that the gift was
believed to be of value —when nothing of
the sort w r as believed. There is, conse-
quently, something quite scarifying in the
discovery that the fraudulent claim to grati-
tude—asif gratitude were anacquittalin full—
turns out to have had an actual basis. It is
exceedingly awkward after having protested
for so many years that one knew perfectly
well how rich was the gift, and that one ex-
pected only a return of loving kindness, to
be confronted with the alternatives of being
content to be taken at one’s word, or of
brazening out a confession of the impudent
hypocrisy and demanding to have the gift re-
turned.
# # *
The latter has been the course adopted,
although some peristence of deceit is still
maintained. It has been determined, appar-
ently, to try first what coaxing and caressing
will do towards procuring a restoration of
first conditions and obtaining control over
the Australian territory. But, meanwhile,
covert dispositions are being made to secure
a commanding position, so that if cajolery
should prove inefficacious, the power of com-
pelling docility shall not be lacking. The
first step towards recovering lost ground—in
more senses than one—has been the Naval
Defence arrangement. Great Britain sends
a powerful squadron to abide in Australian
waters, to be paid for by Australian tribute,
to protect Australia, but to be manned by
British fighting men, commanded by officers
who take their orders from British Ministers,
and who, at the word of order, would not
hesitate to turn against Australians the guns
ostensibly mounted for their defence. Into
this transparent snare the alleged statesmen
of Australia allowed themselves to be led,
blind to the trap and deaf to warnings which
were not lacking. The rulers of Queensland
alone stood aloof and refused to be fooled.
To-day the second act of the drama, which
may yet prove a tragedy, opens. An insidious
proffer is made of British troops to hold the
keys of Australia. The Imperial authorities
are obligingly desirous of placing garrisons
at King George’s Sound and Thursday
Island, and ask nothing of Australia for the
accommodation—that is to say, nothing of
consequence. Only the trifling item that
Australia shall pay the cost of maintaining
the troops I
# * #
It is comforting to observe, however, that
this time the Governments of the Australian
colonies are on the alei't and decline the pit-
fall. New South Wales, Victoria, and
Queensland give check to the adroit player
on the other side of the globe by professing
an entire willingness that the keys of Aus-
tralia shall be strongly guarded--by Aus-
tralians for Australians. This is an attitude
which must be maintained. The people of
Australia are not sheep, although they derive
much advantage from wool. Thev are not a
timid and nerveless variety of the British
race—a variety so emasculated that they
need to be guarded on land as well as by
sea, by men of the braver and sterner
stock from whence they have degenerated.
Australians are not creatures so despicable—
as yet. But if their rulers falter now, if
they now yield, if treachery or folly induce
them to consent to the present proposal, the
decadence of Australian vitality becomes in-
evitable. It is not possible for any popula-
tion to submit to the protection of alien
mercenaries, while retaining their self-
respect and confidence in their own suffi-
ciency. The habit of regarding themselves
as a people existing under the shelter of the
strong arm and manly spirit of another
people, is certain rapidly to react upon the
character of the population so humiliated.
The protectors become invested with the
attributes of awe-inspiring courage and apti-
tude for combat, while the protected come to
regard themselves as fit only for the patient
arts of peace. To a voluntary abnegation of
the duties of manhood, an involuntary
deprivation of the spirit of manliness suc-
ceeds without fail. And once the contrast is
fairly established, the protector becomes
tempted to become the tyrant. Under such
conditions Australians would sink into a race
of Helots, plundered and despised by their
masters—the British. There could be no
eluding the consequences if the causes be
permitted to operate. The fate of Austialia
hangs to-day in the scales. And if the bal-
ance inclines on this occasion in favour of
Australian dignity, the test will not be the
last. The conspiracy is t o deeply laid and
is based on a passion too potent to be foiled
because one plot miscarries. There are
further ordeals yet to be confronted, and to
emerge unscathed will demand the exercise
of courage, discretion, and caution.
Zolaism and the Australian Press.
Does the world move ? It is, indeed, very
questionable. There are people now living
who pray once a year in church upon a cer-
tain day for the repose of the soul of Charles
Stuart, who once had the misfortune to lose ffis
head in an argument concerning the divine right
of kings. Harriet Martineau, in her “ Auto-
biography,” tells us how pained she was, how
shocked and grieved, when, during her visit to
America, she found the free, the enlightened, the
ingenious Yankees —in their affection for the
divine goddess of Liberty taking the greatest
liberties with her, as Dickens puts it —employing
their delightful talents and supei-fluoUs energies
in prosecuting a man for the antiquated offence
of blasphemy. Harriet laboured hard on be-
half of the accused, not because she had
any sympathy either with the culprit or with his
offence, but because she desired to demonstrate to
the Yankees her own conception of true liberty.
The world does not move much, perhaps, after all,
for it is not so very long ago that a member of the
English House of Commons was imprisoned in the
Tower, because he insisted upon taking the seat
he had been elected to without taking an oath in
whose sanctity he could by no possible measure
of self-delusion believe.
* * #
Is it possible that the world moves? Vizetelly
is in gaol for selling a book, the cheapest edition
of which was published at a shilling, although a
very considerable number of copies were published
and sold at six shillings and half-a-crown a volume.
The alleged fault of this book was disgusting
realism, the whole examples of which in a volume
of over 400 pages occupy about 40 pages. At the
price, even of the cheapest editions, only those
who had a shilling to spare for mere literary
luxury could afford to buy this book. The
average London daily newspaper is published
at a penny; ever so many evening papers are
published at a half-penny. To the man or
woman who can afford a shilling book, hundreds
and thousands can spare a penny for the purchase
of the newspaper containing the salacious reports
of Mother Jeffrey’s horrors, Colin Campbell
and Dilke-Crawford divorce-cases, et hoc genus
ornne. As a proof that the non-newspaper-reading
public—the people who are not and never will be
regular subscribers to news-sheets—will always
manage to secure a copy of a print giving the dis-
gusting details of disgusting cases, we need only
adduce the evidence furnished by the journals
themselves, attesting to extra issues of thou-
sands of copies, and their graphic accounts
of the office being besieged at an early
hour by a libidinous public. In a Lon-
don penny weekly in which we read the
account of the Vizetelly prosecution, on the
same page, and almost in the next column, were
given, with the most brutally realistic details,
two cases of husband-mutilation by jealous wives,
in which vitriol and the knife played leading
parts. Of course, the paper did not neglect to
improve so good an opportunity with a telling
leader, in which it took sides with the law against
so gross an offender against public morality as Mr.
Henry Vizetelly, intimating in no measured
language that he had received only his deserts,
and “ they hoped it would prove a warning to
persons,” &c., &c.
# * *
Not many months ago there was instituted in
Sydney a police prosecution against a local book-
seller for exposing for sale certain copies of
moderately-priced books such as “ Social Science, ”
and Annie Eesant’s “Fruits of Philosophy,” the
latter as purely a philosophical statement of the
doctrines of Malthus —a Church of England
clergyman, by the way—as many of the almost
austerely-political tracts of Harriet Martineau.
In all the booksellers’ shops in Sydney, at
exactly the same time, anyone, having the
money or the credit, could readily procure"
the covert filth of Ouida ’s “Moths,” or
the thinly-veiled romantic pruriency of W. H.
Mali .ock. In Melbourne recently, so thoroughly
moral a book as Daudet’s “Sappho” was seized
upon by so eminently a moralistic purist as the
Commissioner of Customs as a taboo work, while
Routledge & Sons can pour in, as one of a series
known as the “ Pocket Library,” as many copies
of “Manon Lescaut ” as they choose; and any-
body can purchase from a dozen shops or more
“La Dame aux Camellias ” of Dumas Fils, or the
“Contes Drolatiques” of Balzac, the “ Hep-
tameron ” of Queen Marguerite, the Camden
edition of Rabelais, Bohn’s “Decameron” of
Boccaccio, the “Exemplary Novels” of Cer-
vantes, the “Mermaid ” series of old English play-
wrights, Fielding’s “ Tom Jones,” “ Joseph
Andrews ” and “Amelia,” Smollet’s “Roderick
Random,” “Peregrine Pickle,” and “Humphrey
Clinker,” the comedies of Vanbrugh, Farquhar,
and Wycherley, Shakespeare, Burton’s oi
Foote’s “Arabian Nights,’’the “Koran” and thi
“Bible”—all in an English and popularly under-
stood literary dress.
* * *
Henry James, junr., the author of “Princess
Cassamassinia,” complains, in a preface to a
translation of one of Zola’s novels, that
the English novelist is compelled to write
down to the level of the English boarding-
school miss. The English newspaper, the
popular penny sheet, is, however, exempt from
this necessity. W. 1). Howells, the American
novelist, complained bitterly, in an article pub-
lished recently in Harper’s Magazine, that he
and his brother novelists were compelled to cater
exclusively for the “Bud,” or Young Girl of his
native land. “Beware of weak sisters” is a
maxim constantly before his eyes and bound about
his brows. A daily paper, commenting in a
leader upon this article, remarks ;
For newspaper literature the same good folk will revel
in a sersationalism which has notits equal, even in Prance,
the mother of sensational journalism. Thus may be seen
on an American table an illustrated daily, with portraits
and huge cross-headings, meant to draw attention to some
case of scandal, or worse ; and to this kind of reading the
young are not denied access. An outward assent to, and
request for, morality is what the average American, man .
and woman, asks, and so the doors are shut in one direc-
tion and left open in another. «
Is this state of affairs peculiar to America? We
fear not. A day or so after the publica-
tion of the news of Yizetelly’s imprison-'
ment in a leading Melbourne daily, with an
accompanying leader in which a moral was pointed
and a tale adorned anent the justice of punishing
a man who pandered to a depraved literary taste,
the same journal published columns of the nauseous
and brutalising details of a horrible case of incest,
infanticide and attendant horrors, unparalleled
in the pages of Zola or Guy Maupassant. This
paper was published in the same Melbourne in
which were seized the offending copies of Daudet’s
“Sappho.” It has a circulation among scores of
thousands of subscribers, the great majority of
whom must have read the details of a horribly
revolting case, but to whom the very name of
Daudet or of “Sappho” must, in the nature of
things, be for ever unknown—unless they have
read these names for the first, and mayhap only
time, in the self-same journal, in an account of
the seizure of the book by the Customs Commis-
sioner.
* * *
In Y ictoria, where all these things have lately
happened, rival sects have joined in one common
clamour for the restitution of Bible-reading in
State schools. Fancy! the “Bible!” This book
is as great an offender against nineteenth-century
ideas of conventional “niceness” as any realist of
to-day. There is no use in blinking the fact ! If
we would be logical, we must not stop at Daudet’s
“ Sappho.” All literature that is worthy the
name is absolutely saturated with that which
purists are so seemingly anxious to eliminate
from humanity, and from literature, which is,
after all, only humanity’s looking-glass. All great
literature is boldly and magnificently frank. If
you desire to suppress plain speaking, you
must suppress Homer, aEschylus, Euripides,
Sophocles, Aristophanes, Dante, Shake-
speare, Milton, Voltaire, Rousseau, Byron,
Shelley, Swinburne, Boccaccio, Rabelais,
Schopenhauer, Fielding, Smollet, the
Koran, and the Bible; everything -that is
strong and everything that is virile. You can
admit only Dr. Watts, Lamartine, and Henry
Kirke White. If you desire to effect a com-
promise between innuendo and nasty “niceness”
you have a little literature of pruriency and false-
hood of which the high-priestess is OuiDA and the
chief medicine man W. H. Mallook —and this
is probably what you will in the end choose.
* * *
This one thing is, however, certain ; no matter
how valuable may be the services of Policeman X,
or the Customs officer zealous in the seizure of
dutiable goods, as censorcs literarum, they can
only display their unbounded ignorance and in-
capacity. You cannot measure the genius of a
Daudet with a constable’s baton, and the guardian
of our liberties encroaches upon a domain belong-
ing to another sphere, when he serves his writ of
habeas corpus upon the children of the imagination
and the fancy. There is a field, though, for the
exercise of his prohibitory functions outside
literature and apart from art, but not outside the
newspaper office, which can lay no claim to either
literature or art. The students of literature are
few in comparison to the great bulk of the popu-
lation, they are usually persons of taste and ex-
perience, their minds are formed and their
passions are disciplined. Not so the great hungry,
sensation-devouring mongers who flock in thou-
sands and tens of thousands, of all ages, sizes, and
sexes, penny in hand, to the office of the newspaper,
starving for the minutest details of every horrible
and disgusting case of lust and murder that ever
polluted the ears and shocked the sensibilities of
judge and jury. They are the young, the suscep-
tible, the educative, the inexperienced. What a
literary dish to put before the indiscriminating
palate of such is the modern daily newspaper, with
its bald, inartistip realism, its coarse gaucheries,
its vulgar and salacious details ! What food for
daughters and wives, sisters and sweethearts,
is the plain, unvarnished, brutal narrative of
seduction, desertion, incest, and prostitution of
which the average newspaper—and especially the
average evening newspaper - is a daily compound !
Out upon it! Here, Policeman X., is a field for
your activity; but while we permit, as we do
permit, that which ought not under any circum-
stances to be placed before the young, to be pub-
lished in our daily press at a penny, let there be
no word of Daudet, of Flaubert, of Bourget, of
Guy de Maupassant ; ay, or even of Zola —the
most grievous offender of them all.
“The ‘Returned’ Young Man as Critic!”
Robert Buchanan, in the Universal Review,
recently wrote an article on “ The Modern Young
Man as Critic,” in which he deals with the
juvenile person who is peculiar to the present day;
the adolescent fopling who has learnt the art of
lisping ins little “ idealets ” in pretty mincing
literary phraseology, evincing a wonderful range
of information, a tremendous catholicity of taste
—which a practised interlocutor could exhaust
inside two hours—with a simpering substratum of
ineffable silliness as foundation for the gimcrack
superstructure. Arguing in fact that this is the
age in which everybody and every thing considers
it necessary to pass judgment upon everybody and
everything else. This “cult” was first made
fashionable in alleged circles of “sweetness and
light ” by Matthew Arnold, and while he held
the monopoly, nobody was much inclined to
grumble. Now, however, many false prophets
and would-be destructive critics, upon whom his
mantle has not fallen, are endeavouring to stagger
through life as upholders of the sanctified
Arnold i an vocation, but the antics they cut are
very funny indeed to the bystander. One of the


“ modern ” young men, a whilom Australian, a
“returned” young man, has been “criticising”
the Colonial Press. Thus he lucubrates
The general tone of Australian newspapers may be said,
in all truth, to be remarkably good. Such dailies as the
Melbourne Argus, the Melbourne Age, and the Sydney
Morning Herald and others that could be mentioned are
models of decorum—no journalistic form could be more
correct. But, as little else than the fairest side of colonial
journalism has been here touched, it may be fair to state
that this general standard of respectability is here and
there departed from.
One notorious example of this departure is to be found
in a New South Wales weekly, which enjoys, 1 believe, a
very considerable circulation, and which is conducted
with a certain ability. Its illustrations, indeed, show
marked ability. I cannot compare this journal with any
British standards, because there is nothing, so far as the
writer is aware, to compare it with. It acknowledges no
law—journalistic or other—it is a licence unto itself. But
it has one straight and simple policy—that of Pat at
Donnybrook—“ wherever you see a head (particularly if it
be covered with a decent hat) hit it.”
The colonial term “ larrikinism ” has, within the last
year or two, become familiar to readers on this side.
Well, the “note” of this journal is the apotheosis of
larrikinism. The paper is the mouthpiece and the trum-
pet of the Australian “ ’Any.” When it praises an honest
man—a phenomenal event in its course—the man seeks to
hide hisi ndignant blushes ; when it condemns the same—
(sic) a weekly event—thecondemned immediately rises an
inch in his own self-respect.
Had this paper one grain of restraint, one particle of
good temper, one idea of selection, it might frequently be
amusing, for, as has been indicated, its artists possess
decided powders of caricature ; but, just when its smartness
is on the point of amusing you, its astounding effrontery
steps in to disgust. Its humours are the banalities of the
boulevard, its wit the persiflage of the pave, its manners
those of a bargee and a Rosherville ballet-girl combined.
The foregoing appeared in the Edinburgh Evening
Dispatch, and is evidently intended to charac-
terise The Bulletin. We quote it from an
article on the Press of Australia, in which that
noble “lever” is traced from its primeval origin
down to the present day. Nothing can proclaim
more eloquently the importance of The Bulletin
than the fact that the writer has devoted one-fifth
of his entire space to an attack upon it. Goldsmith,
we may remark in passing, once wrote that the
critical period always succeeded the creative
period, and that the critical period was, in turn,
succeeded by a period of drivelling stagnation and
entomophagous and protozoan dullness, in which
the insect-eaters and sponges fed on the brains of
the critics and made ready the putrid carcass of
devitalised literature for the oblivion of the
grave. Well, the “returned” young man, from
whose late outpouring on the Australian Press
we have quoted, is one of the protozoans—
he is a sponge, a feeder on the brains of
critics. When we read the article in ques-
tion we were certain only of one thing—that
we had read it before under a different head-
ing. Upon a second perusal the thing became
clearer. Certain strata represented detritus de-
posited by George Moore, streaked with the
schist of Dr. Garran, and the whole based
on a granitic upheaval of Robert Buchanan.
The writer is distinguished by the initials
“ R. R.,” which we shrewdly suspect to
identify a dainty little man of tender years
and a lackadaisical smile, attired after the fashion
of an academical dandy, with pince nez glasses,
irreproachable beaver, and a frock-coat of pro-
fessorial build. He once haunted Sydney in a
lofty and superior fashion, and by his high-toned
iiatronage did a great deal for the “lucid and
ucent waters of our beautiful harbour that lapsed
their opaline tints in susurrent murmurs on the
golden sands that shimmered ’neath a glorious
southern sun.” He also haunted the office of The
Bulletin with much poetic “screed” of an
alleged lyrical form, which, read where you would,
was plethoric with phrases like, “O heart! O
love! O life ! O Maud ! ” or “ Mary Jane ! ” or
words to that effect. He had a facile pen specially
trained to express itself about the “jewelled stars,
ah me,” or, “the lilies lolled with love-lit looks,
alas,” and “the daisies died with dim and dread-
some dree, alack. ” He tried to persuade us with
supplications and tears that his puerilities were
poems, and when we attempted to convince him
that his talents would find a fitting scope in
an insurance-agency or a bound-book-canvasser-
ship he went away with wrath in his pince-nez
lunettes and the canker of discontent in his little
heart, and when he got to Europe essayed our
slaughter in the vicious paragraph quoted, in
which he began his direful work by inform-
ing the readers of the Edinburgh Evening
Dispatch that we enjoyed a large circula-
tion. Well, we do, but that is not singular; in
the animal kingdom, it is the characteristic of
all great vital organisms. If it is a fault, we are
sorry ; but it is one of those things we would
rather tolerate than worry about remedying.
“ R.R.” pays us a fine compliment, however, when
he further remarks that there is nothing, “so far as
he is aware,” to which The Bulletin can be com-
pared. Braise like this makes us blush. We are
told that in journalistic literature we are mi
generis ; that we acknowledge no law, that we are
a “ licence ” unto ourself. Good! This is some-
thing we had once or twice suspected when reading
the dreary twaddle of such dailies as the Argus,
the Age, the S.M. Herald, from which “R.R.”
is careful to differentiate us. We are a “ notorious
departure” from these “ models of decorum,”
from these “journalistic forms ” which, he says,
“could not be more correct,” and which are par-
ticularised by “ R.R.” in the extract quoted above.
Moreover, we are credited with having a policy—
a straight and simple policy —a thing which, we
believe, not even the most ardent admirers of
the Argus, the Age, and the S.M. Herald
ever discovered in any of these papers. Then
it is insinuated, covertly, and with a cer-
tain maidenly blushfulness, that the respecta-
bility of an offender does not screefi him from
our criticism of his public or political acts—no
matter how sheeny the beauteous beaver —the shil-
laly of The B jluetin’s comment descends upon
the head of the sinning wearer thereof. Thanks,
gentle youth ! Praise from so bilious a critic is
praise indeed ! By the way, when “ R.R.” was
in Sydney the -e was one ideal he cherished, one
gentle-eyed gazelle of civilisation that he fondled
with a lover’s tenderness, and that was a care-
fully-brushed, glossy, jetty-hued “bell-topper.”
Note how the old affection crops out in “ when-
ever you see a head (particularly if it be covered
with a decent hat) hit it.” This is another in-
stance of Pope’s “ ruling passion strong in death;”
and, “ Here, Betty, give this cheek another tinge
of red,” will be matched at the demise of “R.R.”
by his careful coat-sleeve-sweep around the
cylinder of his “ decent ” tile, ere he quits the
vanities of the press of this world for the press of
the golden shore, where all the murmurs are “ susur-
rent,” and all the tints “opaline.” In the suc-
ceeding paragraph he drops out of the style sacred
to the intellectual impecuniosity of the S.M.H.
and borrows a little bit of Robert Buchanan’s
castigatory diatribe of George Augustus Moore ;
and in the paragraph succeeding that again, he
splices a piece of George Moore’s “Mummer
Worship ” on to a section of invective filliped
from Ruskin’s criticism of George Eliot in a
back number of the Nineteenth Century, and
closes with a lapse into Robert Buchanan. Now,
all these paragraphs are wasted. “R.R.” has,
doubtless, written them with a view of convincing
his readers that The Bulletin is not exactly
similar to the Argus, the Age, and the S.M.
Herald ; probably because British readers seldom
or never see any of these last-mentioned organs of
alleged public opinion. Perhaps, even, “R.R,”
was impelled by natural honesty to assure his
pairritch-eating congregation that The Bulletin
—the only Australian paper which has a European
circulation—was not a fair sample of the journal-
istic literature circulated beneath the Southern
Cross, and if this was so we thank him very
heartily—he is in some sort the guardian in Scot-
land of our fair fame and hitherto unspotted repu-
tation, as it were.
Chinese Competition.
New South Wales is, according to the most
recent statistics, the suffering most from the saf-
There are resident in Australasia to-
day 57,300 Chinese. Of these no fewer than 16,800 are
pursuing various trades and callings in the lately -
eentenmated mother colony; Victoria with as
large a total population coming next with 12,564.
Thank the fates, however, for small mercies ; the
New South Wales Chinese Restriction Act has
practically stopped the inpouring of the yellow
stream into that country; there having been one
arrival only since the Act came into operation.
But, list ! In the Sydney metropolitan area there
are 394 Chinese furniture-makers competing on a
refuse-rice diet against 447 European artisans
and* 15 females Now, note the cunning of the
foreign-trade [newspaper—wedded also to the
principle of encouragement of Chinese cheap
labour. It is desired to make out a case for the
thing called Freetrade, so the 447 white work-
men and the 15 white women are said to be
employed in forty-six factories, while the 394
Chinese furniture-makers are engaged in turning
out ramshackle tables and decrepit chairs in seven-
teen -workshops. Judging solely by the number of
hands employed, thelatterhaveeertainly thegreater
claim to the title of factories, as the Chinese furniture
“ workshop ” employs on an average twenty-three
and three-sevenths Chinese per “shop,” and the
European “factory ” employs on an average only
nine and thirty-three forty-sixths men and not
quite a-third of a woman per “factory.” Here is
another phase of the case also —another of the
boasted “ moral aspects of Freetrade ” —to enable
furniture to be made by Europeans at a rate suffi-
ciently low to compete against Chinese-made fur-
niture, “ fifteen women ” have to be pressed into
service. To keep pace with Chinese competition,
if the yellow brotherhood could subsist upon an
ounce less of rice per week each, not fifteen but fifty
white women would be used to cut down the wages
of the artisans who are compelled to make chairs
and tables fora living. We all know what women-
labour means. We all know that the introduction
of women-labourers into any particular industry
results in the extinction of that industry. And
this, men of Australia, is the use your womenkind
is to be put to—to compete against Chinamen.
The opium-den takes a certain percentage of white
women every year as its prey; now the furniture
“factory ”-—another of the “blessings ” we owe to
the imported Chinaman —is to swallow also its
ration of femininity. We complain that we have
not population enough. We cry aloud for more
people to till the land and possess it, and, instead
of marrying our women, we use them to cheapen
furniture against the article produced by a leprous
foreigner. That degrading sentence anent the
employment of women in furniture “factories,”
run in opposition to Chinese “ workshops,” ought
to be branded into the forehead of every one of our
New South Wales alleged legislators who object to
the branding of Chinese-made furniture as such.
Oh ! for Heaven’s sake, give the chair made by our
own girls so much chance ! Let us, at least, buy
the furniture made by the women who ought to be
wives!
* * *
A correspondent, signing his name “ Snip,” in
a recent letter to the S.M. Herald, entitled
“Male and Female Labour,” joins issue against
“Australia,” who declared the other day, in the
same paper, “ that a lack of chivalry is shown by
the printers attempting to boycott female labour.”
“Snip” asks: “Is it woman’s sphere to enter
into competition with men ?” and he replies that,
provided she did not undersell her labour, he
would say “yes.” Unfortunately, however, it is
not a question of “ underselling ” labour. Labour
is a thing which cannot be “under” or “over”
sold. The price it fetches in the labour-market —a
price regulated entirely by the demand for
it and the number who compete to sell it
—is its true value as labour. If we
admit the logical application of the axioms
and principles of political economy, we can
regard a woman who enters the competitive
arena of the labour-market as simply a ma-
chine designed to render cheaper the labour of
the existing male competitors. It is of no use
beating our heads against a stone wall; this is the
fact : A little ring of monopolists control the
sources of production, and all outside the ring
have to pay in proportion to their needs and their
numbers. Chivalry ! Bah ! Woman forfeits all
claim to chivalry when she enters the lists as a
combatant. Chivalry is a thing we show to the
weak, the helpless, the defenceless, those dependent
upon us, upon our kindness and our sentiment.
There is no sentiment in Free Competition, except
the sentiment of hunger, and the desire to get the
greatest possible quantity of food for the smallest
possible quantity of work. Woman interrupts the
effort of man to obtain control of the sources of
production. She gives the greatest possible
quantity of work for the smallest possible quantity
of food, and then grumbles that men are no
longer chivalrous. As an instance : in Auckland,
N.Z., through the competition of the female com-
positor, the wages of the male have been reduced
to about £2 per week, and thus the labour of one
man and one woman does not receive a greater
return than that of one man only in any reputable
Australian newspaper-office. Here in Australia
the man earns the dinner, which his wife remains
at home to cook; in New Zealand the labour of
both husband and wife is necessary for the procur-
ing of the meals. We do not complain that
women enter the labour lists against men, but
when they take up the position of combatants
they must expect to be treated as combatants. Of
course we know that when women become
indoctrinated with the spirit of trades-unionism
they are more courageous opponents of Capi-
talism than men. We know that during the Tele-
graph Operators’ Strike in the United States the
women on strike signalised themselves to such an
extent that the massive Jay Gould refused to
permit their return to work on any conditions
whatsoever. But this is beside the question.
Here is the whole affair in a nutshell; Free Com-
petition is war—it is savage, brutal, inhuman; it
excludes pity, love, and humanity ; it is un-
relenting, it is political economy—a thing which
has no soul, If woman must engage in com-
bat with man she must expect to receive
no chivalry—she must look for the same
treatment men receive in like circumstances,
unmitigated by any tender recognition of
sexual difference. Therefore must woman, who
represents to us every romantic and poetic
ideal, every soft and refining influence, be kept
out of this dog’s-struggle for crusts and bones,
kicks and ha’pence. If there are too many women
for the men to wed let us establish homes for the
surplus and maintain them at the public cost.
This will be better in the long run for both sexes,
and the men will find that the money has been
well spent.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Lesson of Money-Making.
The age is indebted, to no inconsiderable extent,
to its commercial spirit for the inculcation of
many valuable lessons. The ancient fetiches and
worn-out watchwords of the past received the
tribute of a great deal of undeserving wor-
ship until the advent of the money-maker,
and he it was who first taught a demoralized
humanity that it had been grovelling for a long
time to a number of empty shucks and shells
from which the kernel had been missing for
centuries. One of the reasons for persecuting the
Jews was undoubtedly an apprehension that they
would infect the willingly-fleeced with the Hebraic
doubt of fictitious and metaphysical values and
advantages. The commercial spirit permeated
everything in time, however, maugre persecution,
until at last it forced itself into philosophy by way
of the brain of Locke, who defined all knowledge
as the result of experience, dearly bought and paid
for, and who scouted the notion of innate ideas,
or any other gifts of Heaven which could
be had for nothing. The commercial spirit
managed to make a good place for itself in
the stubborn brain of old Dr. Samuel Johnson
who killed patronage and opened with a dictionary
preface, as with a golden key, the immeasurable
coffers of the public to the daring man of letters
who was gifted with the money-making faculty
to exploit them. To-day, art, literature, brains of
every brand, are money-making institutions con-
ducted solely on business principles—more’s the
pity. But the same money-making spirit that in
the past has killed superstitions in religion,
patronage in literature and art, transcendental
mysticism in philosophy, intolerance of whatever
could aid the machinery of life, and fictitious
values of all kinds and sizes, now stands, like the
cockatrice, a very good chance-of being consumed
by its own organism. One end of it leaves off
exactly where the other end begins. By cultiva-
tion through generations, the money - making
faculty has become a devouring passion, a mania,
a fever ; but the philosophy begotten of money-
making remains, aye, and augments in inverse
ratio. The critical and cynical attitude which
is a part of the law of barter and ex-
change, will shortly make the men of commerce
turn an examining eye upon their own callings.
They will begin to ask the why and the wherefore,
the advantage and the corresponding loss of de-
voting one’s whole existence to an apparently
profitless pursuit—the heaping up of wealth they
can never hope to enjoy—and the very mental dis-
position bred by the spirit of commercialism will
be employed to its destruction. Then there is the
Socialistic aspect of the case. No one has greater
regal’d than have we for the noble men who sur-
render life, fortune and liberty for the sake of their
fellows; but just as one swallow never makes a
spring, so also one social redeemer cannot save a
people or ameliorate the lot of a community insen-
sible of their degradation. Altruism—most ad-
mirable of ’isms—never saved anybody who
did not want to be saved. The only man
to whom self-sacrifice ever did any genuine good
was the man who sacrificed himself. “ The
Christs of the Barricades ” are the heroes of a
defunct condition of things; they lived in a
period anterior to the money-making period.
“Touch a man’s pocket or his stomach,” said
Walpole, “ and up jumps a patriot.” The
Socialists have learnt, or are rapidly learning, the
lesson of the age, and the reform which is to make
a new world out of an old one will be based on
purely business principles founded on the eternal
failing of individual selfishness: —One will take
care that his neighbour gets all his rights, for that
will ensure also the getting of one’s own rights.
This is the lesson of the money-making spirit of
the age. It has reduced everything to the touch-
test of commerce. One thing only has not been so
reduced, and that is commerce itself, wealth,
money-making in all its forms and phases. The
superstition of wealth is the last of the series.
When that also has met its death —welcome the
millennium!
-*■ —
Juries and Sentences.
Not long ago Judge Trench, of Victoria, wrote a
forcible pamphlet on the inequality and incon-
sistency of the sentences awarded to criminals.
Juries ought to impose the sentences, as
they do in America. Thus in the case of
the Chicago Anarchists, the newspapers which
sided against them asked what was the griev-
ance in their hanging, it having been decided
on by the jury. Yet the privilege of re-
prieve rested with Governor Oglesby, who de-
clined to ex-ercise it unless Fischer, Parsons, and
Engel begged for commutation to imprisonment
for life, which they were too proud to ask, saying,
“ Hang us or discharge us.” In the case of Spies
alone, as leader, all mercy was refused. However,
this takes us off the present matter, which
is to insist that juries ought, in every case,
to fix the sentence within the legal limits
prescribed by the Judge. To be sure the
jury determines whether a prisoner is guilty.
That is one privilege. It is the most important
point. But if the twelve men are good enough
for that, they are good enough to declare how
severe the sentence shall be. Even when a cul-
prit’s liberty is forfeited, the important question
remains for him —How long? Then again there
may be solitary confinement, or even whip-
pings involved. All these things should be
decided by the voice of the jury. We are
convinced that if this matter be hammered at,
Public Opinion will imperatively and irresistibly
demand that juries shall fix the duration and
nature of sentences. At present it depends on
the caprice of the Judge, who is only one in-
dividual, and fallible. Why should the liberty
of any subject, or citizen, rest on the dictum
of one man? Not only may sentences be
too heavy, but they may be too absurdly
lenient. Victorians remember the cry of in-
dignation which went all over the goldfields
when Judge Fellows, then raw to his duties,
sentenced a squad of (highly respectable) gold-
robbers to six weeks, when they ought, ac-
cording to the scale of his time, have got at
least six years. The writer of these lines heard
Judge MacFarland— the Victorian MacFarland
—give a man four years for stealing a coat. These
two judges have gone to their account, and so we
may mention them without being invidious. Even
such an excellent and nervously-conscientious man
as the present Judge Hartley Williams might,
perhaps, be thankful if the sentencing responsibility
were turned over to his juries. His fancy is for “soli-
tary.” Has he the faintest idea of what one day’s
“ solitary ” is like? Other judges will not give the
solitary. So it comes to this. A prisoner trembles
as to whether he is to come before Judge Williams
or somebody else. This is not as it should be.
Let the Law be consistent. Now we will put it
to Judge Williams whether he would not rather
point out to the jury that the Law allows solitary
confinement, and leave it to them. How many
men are there in the Australian prisons doing un-
just sentences ? They are guilty, but their punish-
ment is exaggerated, cruel, vindictive —and use-
less. Let us then bring this question of Jury
Sentences on the board for discussion. Jf the
people reject the idea, well and good. We invite
them to substitute an American for an English
custom, Justice for Caprice. Why, a man may
get seven years because a judge’s dinner has dis-
agreed with him, or because he has quarrelled with
his wife.
A Wail from the Sanhedrim.
The ordinary day fixed for New South Wales par-
liamentary elections is Saturday, which is the
Jewish seventh day of rest and prayer, and they—
the Jews of Sydney—demand a new election-day
upon which they may drive to the poll to vote for
Bgedekin in gorgeous barouches and auriferous
laudaus. Now, we are rather inclined to suspect
that the Jews have nothing whatever to do with
this demand for a fresh voting-day. It probably
originated in the Civil Service departments
amongst the blotting-pad draughtsmen, who find
half-a-day’s holiday not sufficiently long to go out
of town, and who are, therefore, exceedingly
anxious to “ swap ” Saturday afternoon for a
publicly-proclaimed Hebrew-voting, full-fledged
holiday. If this be so, we can readily sug-
gest to our Israelitish brother a mode by
which he can heap confusion and ridicule upon his
client and natural enemy—the Civil Servant
Let him (our Israelitish brother aforesaid)
rally in his thousands and his tens of thousands to
the poll on the Christian Sunday to the playing of
psalteries and cymbals—and thus shall the Hebrew
Shabbath, and the rest-day of some five or six
dozen other creeds, both be kept sacred by the
parties respectively interested, and the Civil Ser-
vant thereby be euchred. Of course it is not
necessary to go to all this trouble. The Jew is
generally a capitalist, and his vote is, as a rule, re-
corded on the side of the oppressively and over-
poweringly wealthy. This being so, let the chief
rabbis make a list of all the “belltopper ’’-wearing
adults in their synagogues, and the total can then
be added to the spoils of the White-waistcoat, and
the Civil Servant shall likewise be dished, and the
Sanhedrim placated without occasioning any
blood-ensanguined revolt or social upheaval on
the part of somebody not hitherto specified.
-♦
A Disputed Hotel Bill.
Signor Floeindo Castellano— alleged to be a
kind of king, or count, in his own delightful, but
somewhat evil-smelling, country—has scooped a
cool £1000 from the Grosvenor Hotel Company
(Lim.), of Sydney. It was the company's misfor-
tune to enjoy the distinguished patronage of the
Signor from the 1st to the 17th January last,
during which time he ran up a bill of £47 10s.
The charges being, from the Signor’s point of
view, excessive, he declined to settle up, and left
the hotel in a state of Italian excitement. His
virtuous indignation was genuine enough, no
doubt, but the hotel people, whose faith in Italian
counts is not strong enough to move mountains,
were racked by unworthy fears that this particular
scion of an ancient race might “clear” to his
palace on the Lake of Como ere a squaring up
was arrived at. They made inquiries concern-
ing their dissatisfied customer, and discovered
that he had quarrelled with the charges at
Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne. From other sources
they obtained disquieting but ill-grounded
opinions as to the bona-Hdes of the haughty
Flobindo, and finally the Grosvenor Hotel Com-
pany made affidavit that, to the best of their
plebeian belief, the Signor intended to skip the
colony without saying good-bye to his creditors.
Thereupon a writ of capias was obtained, and the
breathing body of Florindo Castellano was
seized by the cold hand of the law. After which
the company further pursued him for £47 10s.,
while the Signor retaliated by claiming £2000
damages for illegal arrest. The two cases were
heard in Melbourne the other day, before Chief
Justice Higinbotham and a special jmy of six.
His Honor, after pointing out that “ the items in
the hotel books, attested by defendant, showed the
amount claimed, £47 10s.,” proceeded to deal with
the colossal contra claim for damages. “Signor
Castellano,” suggested his Honor, “camehere as
a stranger, and, though it was now beyond doubt
that he was a man of means and position in his
own country, took no trouble to let the people
here know who or what he was. He treated
the people he came in contact with and his credi-
tors in a very off-hand manner and with very
scant respect. . . . He ought not to complain,
when he acted in that way and presented grounds
upon which an unpaid creditor might reasonably
act, in endeavoring to enforce his claim, if he was
viewed with suspicion.” The jury of six, however,
turning a deaf ear to these words of wisdom,
wiped £8 off the disputed hotel bill, and awarded
the lucky Signor damages to the extent of £1000.
The moral of this story appears to be that any
globe-trotter cashing up for his bed and board is a
“juggins” of the first water, inasmuch as he
wilfully throws away a chance of getting his
creditor into a tight place.
Up to the month of July there had not
been a single death from small-pox in Lon-
don this year. What a satire on Austra-
lian scares, created by newspaper driveilings
about “ our densely populated cities,” when-
ever an injudiciously-fed baby breaks out into
pimples ! While we are trembling at the shadow
of a disease unknown in this country, the crowded
Londoners, who have had the real thing on hand
for centuries, can afford to be indifferent to its
exact whereabouts. It would do Melbourne and
Sydney good to live a while in the north of London
■ —say the Highgate district —and be stopped occa-
sionally by a spotty-faced vagrant who wants to
know the nearest way to the Small-pox Hospital;
or to find themselves sitting next to a convalescent
patient, looking like a plum-pudding, on one of
the river steamers. These things are endured
with resignation in the big metropolis, where
policemen and daily journals have something
better to do than put barriers round infected
houses, and publish twaddling yarns, headed
“Another Suspected Case.” For seven months,
hark ye ! there has been no death from small-pox
among the five millions of people who herd
together in London. That should be good enough
for us. Vaccinate, and be happy.


Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLARD Y
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, &c., fa.,
SUITABLE FOR
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates. A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Street),
[?]
-846 Macquane-street North, Sydney, August 28, 1889,
My Dear Moorabinda, —
Things were strictly “V.R.” at Sydney Royal on 22nd
inst., when “Pepita” was played before a large and par-
tially-dressed house which gaped at the vice-regalities
between the acts as if they were part of the show . Lady
Carington wore an evening gown of black lace, passemen-
terie and silk, the bodice V-shaped, the elbow-sleeves of
black lace caught across three lines over the upper part
of the arm, a cluster of souvenir roses and leaves on the
right side of the hair—Lady Carington doesu’t affect the
Kiffel-Towor coiffure, but wears her hair banged across the
forehead Princess of Wales fashion. A diamond pin
gleaming here and there—a bouquet of Avhite roses and
leaves on the left side of the corsage, tan gloves, a gauze
lau and a crimson-striped silk and velvet cloak relieAed
with black passementerie, completed the toilette. Miss
Walcnn wore black lace, the bodice V-shaped and beaded,
Empire sash of red moire ribbon, scarlet aigrette,
and an opera-cloak of crimson plush that didn't bar
nionise with tire touches of red. The Baron
what an exemplary husband he makes ! whoever saw
him go out to see a man about a dog between the acts !
wore a glittering star in his buttonhole and had his hair
parted in the middle ; and the vice regal party included a
tall stranger with a bald head who seemed to mourn for
the possibilities of a front seat in the stalls from his arid
dress circle perch. The d.c. had ’em all off, of course.
One society lady wore a handsome gown composed en-
tirely of white crystal beading—white aigrette, tan gloves,
and crimson plush opera cloak. “ Pepita” went splendidly,
of course, the only trials being the awful bow-legs of that
giddy, curry-coloured prince, and the painfully “ pro-
perty ” bull in the last scene. By the way, the array of
dress-coated devotees at the shrine of grease-paint and
sawdust is always very imposing at “ Pepita.”
Kowalski’s “ ben.,” at Sydney Criterion, on 22nd. drew
a fashionable audience, mostly composed of Avomen in
winter gowns and bonnets, though Maccabe’s genial full-
moon countenance rose occasionally in a d.c. box. The
dressing was satisfactory, but Spring isn't quite here yet,
and nobody has anything new, though a silver-grey cloth
with jupe and vest embroidered in silver, revers of grey
velvet and grey scoop hat ornate w ith grey plumes, Avas
very well Avorn indeed. The card was a pot-pourri of
“ Joseph’s Sweetheart,” “Martha,” vocal selections, Pro-
fessor Kennedy, a speech from Kowalski, the overture
from “ Moustique,” and “ Hook and Eye,” a smart little
sketch by Eille Norwood, who played the young lover in
his amusing production. The piece went splendidly right
) hrough.
What do you think of this, from a Sydney paper :
A LADY desires Appointment as Governess in
■ suburbs; salary, £l6 per year. Miss —,
Herald.
All the ologies for six-aud-twopenee per week ! No
wonder one hears that that “impertinent cook actually
dared to patronise me !” '
Apropos of women’s employments, 1 read that it has
been decided by a labour organisation to “ boycott ” two
Sidney publications where female labour is employed on
the composing-staff. The “ sisterhood” raise an hysterical
howl at this, of course, but Sappho sincerely hopes they
"ill be boycotted everywhere until Australian servants
are something more than legendary. As the case stands,
our Avomen are battling to oust men from their legitimate
employments—often successfully because of the starvation
wages they ask—w hile the entire community is sitting in
the ashes with its hands clasped across its diaphragm
waiting for someone to cook its dinner !
The latest kind of boarder found wanting in the daily
press:—
yOUNG Gentleman requires comfortable HOME
*- (musical) with Avidow or lady w’ho will share
mental trouble, moderate, central,* no other males.
Particulars Hope, Park-street, P.O.
What a development! “ Sympathising landlady required
to enter into the feelings of a young man Avith a cork leg,”
or, “ Widow Avanted who will participate in a weekly
bilious attack,” will come next 1 suppose 1
I AA'ent over Wallach Brothers’ furniture warehouse,
Wynyard Square, with a bride-to-be the other day. I’m
afraid Augustus is in for a serious time, but the things are
covetously lovely. A novelty is the enamelled cane fur-
niture, odd and unexpected in shape, but lazily comfort-
able, and so especially adapted to the hot summer weather
ahead that one felt cool by merely looking at it. A
speciality is the arrangement of window, mantel-piece,
and bed-hangings—by an imported Frenchman of great
artistic proclivities on the premises. Already the original
Avarehouse is too small to accommodate the aggregate of
gorgeousness, and the firm hat e purchased large adjoin,
ing premises, in which I found, amidst a thousand other
things, a magnificent dining-room suite, made by the firm
out of Australian woods—the sideboard being especially
handsome.
At last meeting of the N.S.W, Art Society, six neAV
members were enrolled and 23 put under consideration.
The Society’s annual exhibition will commence on sth
October, and is to be open a fortnight. Apropos of fix-
tures, the Southern Amateur Theatrical Society shortly
blossom out into a performance of that gaudy drama,
“ Blow for Blow.”
The grand concert given on 21st inst. by the Sydney
University Musical Society, under the conductorship of
Herr Hugo Alpen, attracted an excellent audience, com.
prising a fair per-centage of dons and a salting of the
rather imitative undergrads, who, as is usual, Avelcomed
favourite performers with those weird noises by which the
studentlet ever proclaims his preference. The concert
was chloral (as a woman beside me, in a pink plush man-
tle, had it), mildly instrumental, and vocal. Mrs.
M'Donald was at her best in a “ King of Thule.” Th e
choral items were rather spoilt at first by the evident
desire of the chorus to retire into their little satin slippers.
It is, I suppose, the desire to “ look clever” that induces
so many of our professional men to shave clean daily and
go abroad like unto Antonius Brown, the tragedian, and I
am not so averse to this acquired bare-facedness as I am
to the universal clean chin and moustache. Moustaches
suit the brigandesque type, and to see dear dove-coloured
De Jones with a fierce sprouting on his upper lip is to
revel in the incongruous. All Avomen don’t wear curled
fronts—why do all men wear moustaches'?
At last vice-regal reception, Lady Carington leant upon
a walking-stick whilst receiving her visitors, and I pro-
phesied that Potts Point wouldn’t be long following suit.
At a recent fashionable wedding a mighty member of the
Beer coterie leant with a degage air on a stout malacca,
and the other morning a girl came pegging down the
block with a thick and probably unnecessary cratch-stick
in lieu of her umbrella !
On Ait that a certain “sassiety ” lady, no more to be
identified with the frolics of Sydney's aristocracy, once
endeavoured, just for a novelty, to get up a ladies' cricket
match, “ Plain versus Pretty.” She had no trouble in
choosing her snub-nosed eleven, but when she went to
select for the opposing team only three damsels (it was to
lie a very creamy affair, of course) were eligible to play 1
Consequently this original contest didn't come off.
A pretty feature of the coming spring is that flora
jewellery is to take the place of the hideous rats, snakes
and lizards we have fastened our laces with so long. Some
of the new brooches are very lovely. I was shown a pretty
“ primrose” brooch in pale saffron enamel sprinkled with
diamonds to represent dew, and another, imitating a rose-
bud, had ruby petals and the calyx studded Avith small
emeralds, while a “ daisy ” brooch, done in pink coral and
pearls, Avas almost natural. The price, though, of all
these delights is rather “exclusive” just yet, of course.
After all, the “ lofty personage ” has seen the error of
his ways, and the annual ball in aid of St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital is to eventuate—on the 25th prox., at Sydney Exhi-
bition Building, under the patronage of all the distin-
guished people handy. Sydney bicycle ball is billed for
9th prox. at Need’s Rooms —the sports occur at the Asso-
ciation Ground on 7th prox. N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union hold
their annual sports at the ground aforesaid on 31st inst.,
which is also the first night of “ Pirates of Penzance ” at
Sydney Royal. The Manly Flovver Show opens on 11th
prox. for a three days’ exhibition.
No imposing throng assembled at Sydney Associa-
tion Ground, on the 24th, to see N.S.W., in the bewitch-
ingest of pale-blue caps, beat Queensland in tropical red
top-coverings, at lacrosse—an inoffensive pastime played
with long cane instruments like canoe-paddles. 1 remem-
ber only one woman who had apparently looked in the
glass before she came out, and she wore navy-blue cloth
(how welcome a blue gown looks amidst all the green !)
fastened with navy buttons and draped high at the left
side over a blue velvet jupe, Gothic bonnet ornate with
ribbon en suite and a knot of cardinal. The weather was
simply gorgeous.
Alas ! Our waists are to be more hour-glassy than ever
—fifteen inches being the London size at present—
The name of Miss Alice Cornwell keeps bobbing up in
the English journals. On her house-boat at Henley she
recently entertained at luncheon that worthy squib,
Boulanger, who expressed himself delighted. The Midas
house-boat is fittingly named the “Reve d’or,” and is
fitted up in sulphur and deep yellow ! After all, this talk
of European magnificence doesn’t impress me. A few
years ago 1 stayed for a little while at the Clarence Hotel,
Melbourne, where Miss Cornwell was hostess, and she used
to pass me chops at breakfast. She passed them very
gracefully, but they were only ordinary chops. Just
think of it ! but a few years’ gap between getting up early
to pass chops to poor miserable me and receiving in a
house-boat “ done ” in sulphur, the man who has been
shaking to its foundations the nation ruled a few years
ago by Gambetta!
I wonder if the fat woman is the feminine equivalent
for the masculine bald-head ? In “ Julius Oeesar ” most of
the men (except George, who surely isn’t bandy ?) wear
perilously short skirts which would incite the brazenest
ballet-girl to open revolt—and at “Julius Csesar” the fat
woman abounded. Apropos, one prominent “ nolle
Roman ” who gyrated in a skirtlet had a pair of “ lovely-
legs,” and yet his neck was simply- goose-like. Which
points a saw-dust moral, don’t you think ?
1 am requested to state that the “ Judge and Jury ”
social, held in the Cariugton Hall, Sydney, on the 18th
inst., was enjoy able in every way, the fun being helped
along by some theatrical people present. Also, that the
carnival held at Camden (N.S.W.) on the 16th inst. was
simply one long sigh of content.
Devotees of lawn-tennis will be sorry to learn that the
days of that thrilling exercise are almost over, and that
lawn-bagatelle will soon be “the thing.” As lawn-baga-
telle doesn’t require any greater brilliancy of intellect in
the players than tennis, and offers eA-en wider facilities for
“canoodling ” than the latter pastime, it will presumably
enjoy- a long and honoured run.
V. R. Shakespeare in the form of “ Julius Caesar ” at
Her Majesty’s on 24th, drew a perfect crash in the stalls and
galleries though the cultured d.c. AA-as merely well filled.
Lady- Carington, who left at the conclusion of the fourth
act, wore black, with diamond aigrette, pendant, and
bangles, and corsage-bouquet of violets, and AA-as accom-
panied by the Baron and a bevy of men, one of Avhom Avore
a conservatory in his eye and a garden in his button-hole
For a V.R. dress-circle the dressing Avas disappointing and
the display of 13-stone loveliness depressing. In a d.c. box
an ex-Hebe wore ten or twenty thousand pounds’ worth of
diamonds ; and a Potts Point bride wore pale-pink striped
and plain silk combined with a white opera-cloak bordered
with feathers.
Quite a gorgeous d.c, witnessed the first performance of
“ Faust,” at Sydney Opera House, on the 26th inst. A
very pretty gown was of primrose-satin and cream-lace.
Madame Cecile Bentami wore a handsome gown of cream
and brown broad stripes Avith draperies of twine-coloured
lace ; Mrs. Bracy (Miss Clara Thompson) had a paralysing
opera-cloak of scarlet silk with Indian design in gold
thread ; Miss Athena Claudius in an art gOAA-n of deep
lavender and point lace collar, occupied the manager’s
box; and the large break-the-weighing-machine person
came in yellow satin covered with black. On the
boards the dressing is well-carried out, Miss Graup-
ner’s get-up in the fourth act of black velvet slashed with
heliotrope being especially tasteful—though why does
Valentine contrast crimson trunks and purple pantlets ?
A great many vegetables Avcre shOAvered promiscuously
throughout the show, and the d.c. swell, Avho violently
distributed the bouquet intended for Siebel on the bald
pate of the bass-viol and the triangles, received a greater
reAvard than his clumsiness deserved from the sweet
smile with which Miss Flora Graupner picked up the ruins
that reached her. At the death-scene of Valentine—
where he hurls his curse at Marguerite—-a bearded man
in the circle wept copiously all down his shirt-front.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The saddest of things in our life’s dreary maze—
In this world of delusion and sham—
Is the girl who is pinched into fifteen-inch stays
With a twenty-four inch diaphragm !
CORRESPONDENCE
“ Jimmy Pannikin ” ; As you epigrammatic-ally
remark, Tub Bulletin’s History of Botany Bay has
busted Bonwick and suffocated Sutherland. (2) Yes, very
likely.B. E. Hester ": You state that people can’t
refrain from being evil unless they are terrified or bribed
into being good. You must have a very poor opinion of
mankind. \Ve prefer to believe that virtue is its oavu
reward, and that most people would do the right for its
OAvn sake only, if social conditions afforded them the oppor-
tunity.. “ C.W.P.P.”; Are you sure the writer's thoroughly
sober ?....“ T.T.” : Many thanks. Will probably use....
“ R.H.D.” ; Promising but not perfect “ Townsville ”;
Thanks. Write again “ J.L.P.” ; A little too strong...
“ Ingoldshy ” : Will consider “ G.D.H.” : Many
thanks.... ‘* H.A.F.”; Subject already treated by every
eminent writer. Choose a local subject, give it Australian
colour, and be careful about your metre and rhymes
“ Bolitanilus ” : Now, don't you know where to send such
matter? “Lemon-squeezer ”: Thanks “ George
Little ”: Many thanks. Agree with you, but communica-
tion too lengthy,... “Sweet William”; Scarcely good
enough. Niel Rasmussen”: Buy or borrow “John
Ward, Preacher“ The Martyrdom of Manand
“Triumphant Democracy.” “ K.A.D.” : “Mirage”
too gloomy. Will consider the other “Obadiah Oil-
cake”: Still prayerfully considering “W. Jamie-
son” (Yoombon): Yes, thoroughly genuine Daniel
G.”: Sorry to say we haven’t seen it......
“ Horse-breaker” ; You, no doubt, have been badly used)
but why write such verse, even although, as you say, it
will go to the tune of “ Botany Bay ! ” By the way, Tub
Bulletin’s Illustrated History of Botany Pay “ goes
Avell” to the tune of “one b0b.”.... “ J.H.D.” ; How is it
that nearly every story or set of verses that we get from
the bush winds up with a funeral, formal or informal?
“The Dying Stockman” is dead —of the jim-jams
“E. W. Wilson ”: The feeling which objects to capital
punishment for one sex and applauds it in lire case of the
other, is most illogical, and as mankind becomes more
humane and less barbarous, the merciful sentiment, now
somewhat stunted, will embrace both sexes and all grades
of turpitude.. “Eremia”: It’s not worth worrying about..
“ J.S.VV.” : Thanks. Crowded 0ut.... “ Jane K.” : Not of
general interest.... “ E.A.P.” :We send them gold, silver,
and wool, and statesmen, professors, and athletes; and
they send us shoddy, and noble nonentities with slanting
foreheads anil abysmal yawns; and paupers, and criminals,
and “Johnnies.” [Many letters held over.]
Paris Exhibition, 1889. Gold medal awarded
“Sunlight Soap” as being a pure and perfect
soap. Largest sale in the world.
“ Nasty Accident to a Chinaman ” is a
heading from a Sydney daily. But everybody
read it, “ Accident to a Nasty Chinaman.”
It is said that the fat child avlio got jammed
in the pillars at Hyde Park was reared on Anglo
Scandinavian Gold Medal Condensed Milk, sold
by W. H. Ariel! & Co., Kent-street, Sydney.
In many parts of China the literally-trans
lated Bibles given to the natives by the mis-
sionaries are used in the manufacture of cheap
boot-soles. Thus are soles sav ed by the spread of
the Gospel !
Everyone in Newcastle (N.S. W.) knows
“Jimmy” Fletcher, M.P., and so many people
feel bound to salute him as he passes along, that a
local wag wagered the other day that the genial
James would not get to the top of the hill that
leads up from the railway-station—a distance of
60 or 70 yards—inside half-an-hour. He w r on the
bet. It took the M.P. over 50 minutes to travel
the distance.
Baron de Hirsch, who recently offered the
Duchess of Montrose £250,000 for her racing stud,
began his financial career in a calico store on
Tookey’s Flat, Thames Diggings, New Zealand.
Hirsch managed to get a large interest in some of
the best speculations on that field, and subse-
quently sold out and went home to Europe, where
he has ever since continued to add to his great
fortune.
Rev. Charles Spurgeon—he of the Duck-
AA r orth episode—told a Chicago reporter the other
day that London was a wickeder city than the
metropolis of pork. Whereupon the Chicago man
flared up and said, “ Well, I guess you had better
investigate Chicago. I don’t think you know it.
We rather pride ourselves on being the wickedest
city on earth ; and if you think London has got
the bulge in that respect, you have not stayed here
long enough. ”
Sir Charles Young’s original “Jim the
Penman ” is said to be still living, and was not
long ago on a ticket-of-leave in Western Australia
•A friend of Mr. Sala, the latter says, had to pay
well-behaved convicts the trifling wages they
earned, and lie asked one of a batch who came to
the pay-table (to know whether he could sign a
receipt) : “ Can you write, my man ? ” The
convict replied : “Write, sir; why, I’m Jim the
Penman 1 ”
A certain British regiment, notorious for
its ill discipline, served under Lord Cornwallis in
the American war. Two of its soldiers went into
a house and abused its inmates in the most cruel
and shameful manner; a third soldier, who knew
their names, refused to disclose them, and was
sentenced to be hanged for that offence. The
commander-in-chief rode up to him, when on the
gallows : “What a fool you are, Campbell, to die
thus; give up these fellows’ names, and you are a
freeman.” “No, my lord,” was the unflinching
reply ; “you are in an enemy’s country, and can
better spare one man than two.”
A new set of stories about the Duke of
Wellington includes this : —The duke, like Sir
John Robertson, detested being helped. One day
a gentleman nearly as old as himself made some
demonstration of assisting him to cross Piccadilly
when crowded. When the duke reached the gate
of Apsley House he touched his hat and said, “ I
thank you, sir.” The stranger took off his hat and
said : “My lord, I have passed a long and not
uneventful life ; but never did I hope to reach the
day when I might be of the slightest assistance
to the greatest man who ever lived.” The duke
looked at him calmly and replied, “ Don’t be a
d fool! ” and walked into Apsley House.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEE if.
Theatre Royal “ Pirates of Penzance,” &o
Her M ajesty’s “ Julius Caesar.”
Criterion “ She Stoops to Conquer.”
Opera House “ The Beggar Student. '
Gaiety “ Old Curiosity Shop,”
Y.M.C.A. Hall Miss Von Finkelstein.
Cyclorama “ Battle of Gettysburg-.”
Academy of Music The Frolics.
Metropolitan Skating Rink Ultimo,
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Theatre Royai 11 Harbour Lights.”
Opera House “Fun on the Bristol ” Co
Princess’ Jaek-in-the-Box.”
Alexandra “ Wages of Sin.”
Atiien.ei m Hall Snazelle.
St. George’s Hall London Pavilion Co.
Royal Museum Monkey Boys, &<-.
It has oft-times been asserted that the
British profile fails to harmonise with the Roman
helm and toga; to this may be appended the
statement that the buskin and sandal of send
barbarism sit but indifferently on the flattencv
foot of civilisation. Be that as it may, “Julius
Osesar,” as staged at Her Majesty’s, is in every
respect a magnificent spectacle. Perhaps the
play’s weakest point is its inordinate length, for
the adapter has preserved many incidents wholly
unnecessary to the facile interpretation of the
drama. A little more might certainly have been
made of the Lupercalian parade, xvhere the white
bulls wear the lean and hungry look that should
appertain to Cassius alone ; but one marked
feature of the show is the admirable conduct of
the supernumeraries, particularly in the Forum
scene, where their gradual change of mood when
swayed by the artful oratoi'y of Mr. Rignold’s
Marc Antony, could scarcely be improved.
The realism of this scene alone is suffi-
cient to make success a foregone conclusion.
The acting of the gentleman whose presence
further cements “the union of Church and Stage”
was freer than might have been anticipated, but
his delivery was marred by a mim-mouthed for-
mality which experience may tone down or wholly
eliminate. Here a word of praise may be said
concerning the clear enunciation of the young
actor who carried the message of Marc Antony to
Brutus in the Capitol. In lengthy orations the
speaker who clambers up to the topmast pinnacle
of passion in his opening periods, has but insecure
footing. Higher he may not attain, and there is
much room for an ignoble fall, and thus the neces-
sity for sustaining the effort oft guides the elocu-
tionist into the realms of rant. In addition to the
scenes spoken of, that of Ctesar’s Palace, the
Capitol, Brutus’tent, and the concluding one on
the Plains of Pliillippi are particularly tine speci-
mens of scenic effect. A brilliant assemblage,
graced by the presence of several “ distinguished
deadheads,” greeted the rise of the curtain on the
opening night, and a long run for “ Julius Cresar ”
may be confidently prognosticated.
Ak.
At the Criterion, “She Stoops to Con*
quer” draws good houses. Somewhat improved
by repetition since our first notice, the acting of
Mrs. Brough and Mr. Hilton still appeals most
strongly to the critical faculties of the audience,
and with the players named we almost feel inclined
to bracket the consistent representation of Mrs.
Hardcastlo by Miss Romer. The Tony of. Mr.
Brough is a brilliant performance, though still
rather too vivacious, and if Mr. Percy Byndal
fails at all as Marlow, minor, it is because the
transition from the clatter of the noisy rattle to
the sheepishness of the bashful youth is so sudden
that the latter quality assumes undue prominence,
if not in the hands of the actor, then most
assuredly in the eye of the beholder. Miss Lilian
Gilmore’s part has not the importance of Fanny,
in “Joseph’s Sweetheart,” nor does she fit it so
fully, but the Hastings of Mr. Inman, with his
insolent nonchalance towards inferiors, his studied
courtesy towards “the sex,” deserves notice. In
his efforts to make the most of a small part that
fine old low comedian, Mr. George Leopold, is just
a trifle obtrusive,
iit iff sif
The sparkling “ Pepita ” makes way for
the “Pirates of Penzance ” and Cellier’s “Charity
Begins at Home,” at the Theatre Royal, this
(Saturday) evening. The excellence of the singing,
dancing and marching of the chorus has been
universally acknowledged,, and nothing of its kind
has been more admirably performed in Sydney
than the Cadets’ march of the second act. Even
after a four weeks’rim, the attendances would lead
one to believe that the management could, with
profit, run “ Pepita ” for a still lengthier period.
* *
Now that warmer weather has come, Bondi
Aquarium is getting into great form. The fish have
been re-gilt and electro-plated, and a new scratch-
back railway has been constructed in honour of
the appointment of the Earl of Hopetoun.
.Jk. Al
The chief feature of the benefit tendered
to Mens. Henri Kowalski was the production of a
comedietta, written by Eille Norwood, entitled;
“ Hook and Eye.” In this, a particularly bright
and Avitty thing, the honours were carried off by
Mrs. Brough and Mr. Geo. Leopold, while the
performance of the actor-author, as the lover, led
us to conclude that more fame awaited him behind
the Avriting-desk than the foot-lights.
■Sic
Kerosene diluted with colza is rapidly be-
coming a popular beverage, and talloAV-candles are ’
in greater requisition for masticatory purposes
than chocolate creams; thus, is the mesmeric in-
fluence of Mr. Kennedy becoming a mighty poAvei
for good, so far as the protected industry of Mr
Street and the boiling-down establishments an
concerned. The School of Arts Hall is nightly
thronged even unto slopping over, and the
drachmas of Sydneyites are floAving smoothly into
the coffer Avhose key travels in the small clothes of
the urbane Mr. “ Joe ” Brcnvn.


The cheap Sunday entrance-fee is booming
the Cyclorama. During the past week the battle
was fought to slow music, interspersed with lec-
tures, and war-songs by an underground vocalist.
These novelties made John Burns a little uneasy
at first.
-*- -*■ *
Since the disastrous tire at the Elite, the
Metropolitan Rink, being near Redfern Railway
Station, is the most popular place of resort for the
legions who like that kind of thing.
iff * *
The Anglo-American Frolics have a bright
little show at Sydney Academy. Its salient
features are the clever mimicry of Mr. Frank
Hawthorne, son of the lessee, the trapeze act of
the sisters Freitas, and a graceful and daring per-
formance by the elder Woodward on the horizontal-
bar. Mr. W. J. Wilson also caters for public
amusement with a Sunday concert.
✓fc £5?
It is difficult, in reviewing the performance
of “Faust” —an opera depending greatly upon
stage effect—at Sydney Opera House, to criticise
it solely on its histrionic and vocal merits. How-
ever, considering the limited stage accommodation,
the feature most to be censured was Faust’s
clumsy emergence from the seedy slough of old
age in the gorgeous garb of rejuvenescence. As
the Marguerite, Miss Lilian Tree gives a reading
that completely departs from that sanctified by
tradition. To our mind the singer—whose voice
M as not at its best—achieved her greatest success,
at the moment it was most grateful—in the last
act. Buzzi’s Mephistophiles is too well known to
require criticism, but his encounter with the cur-
tain-roller in the first act was a creditable, unre-
hearsed effort. Miss Graupner looked well, sang
well, acted well, and did everything with that
artistic facility which makes the most difficult
undertakings appear simple to the uninitiated.
Mr. Stock well’s singing, as Faust, throughout was
excellent, but his assumption of the feebleness of
extreme old age was puerile, and might be omitted
with advantage. As Dame Martha, Valentine,
and Wagner, Miss Cissy Staunton, Mr. Gilpin,
and Mr. John Forde made the most of their oppor-
tunities. The Soldiers’ Chorus was the event of the
evening, and the ballet, lightened up by the grace-
ful pirouetting of Miss Tilly Lake, attained great
prominence through the fearful and tireless agility
"I a curly-haired, plump, young person. The
beggar Student” will be revived on Monday
evening with a strengthened caste.
** * *
A il.lt a fresh lecture, to which is appended
a brand-new stock of Oriental raiment acquired
in tic Holy Laud, Miss Von Fiukelstein com-
menced another season in her old quarters at the
Y.M.CA. Hall, Sydney, on Monday night last. In
order to meet the increased demands on its space,
the platform now extends the full width of the
hall, and on Monday night the fourteen alleged
Hebrews who occupied it found no occasion for
resting on one another’s extremities.
The Snazelle entertainment at Melbourne
Atlienieum combines the freshness of a new-laid
egg with the sweetness of a barmaid’s smile. It
is bounded on the east by the sacred song of
“ Nazareth ’’ set to dissolving views, and on the
n est by an original narrative of how Bill Adams
Mon the Battle of Waterloo. As a gentle stimulant
it resembles old Jamaica rum blended with milk
from the cow. Mr. G. H. Snazelle, the moving
spirit in this delicate affair, is an artist to his
finger-tips, who floods familiar creations of fancy
with limelight and adopts other expedients to
tickle the sluggish imagination of his fellow-man.
When he sings “ The Village Blacksmith,” that
mighty man appears on a sheet at the back of the
stage. Presently he melts into the smithy with
children catching sparks that fly through the open
door, and again the estimable son of toil pops up
in the sanctuary, where his daughter fills a pro-
minent billet in the village choir. Also, when.the
smith is reminded of Ids mother’s voice, a white
angelic spectre comes dodging round his hand, and
so the point of this good old song is gradually
driven into the public understanding until the
.smith is finally left at his peaceful fireside.
Nothing more can be desired, save a view
of the smith taking his night’s repose and
pulling up the blanket, with his large and sinewy
1 1 amis. ‘‘ N T azareth ” is made quite a festive hymn
by the aid of dissolving views, although the pic-
torial portion of the show comes out strongest in
representations of Swiss scenery and choice bits of
statuary, including tinted Venuses, clothed in
nothing more substantial than native modesty.
Many of these pictures are truly beautiful, but
their excellence is least appreciated by the proud
aristocracy who sit too close to the sheet. Mr.
Snazelle gives a pathetic recitation of “The Death
of Jo,” sings a good buffo song, and is evidently a
wag in a quiet way. His yarn about Waterloo
knocks Wellington clean off the pedestal that
famous duke has been usurping for more than
seventy years, and puts plain Bill Adams in his
place. Taking it altogether—not overlooking the
musician, who attacks a pianoforte with his right,
while administering judicious punishment to a
harmonium with his left—this Snazelle enterprise
calls for the immediate patronage of engaged
and partially-engaged couples. When the lights
are dim and low, which they generally are, it is
good to be there with a nice girl.
* *
Jensen’s Congress of Cabalistic Wonders,
which has found an unsuitable resting-place at the
Victoria Hall, is another intelligent venture
deserving of a friendly blessing. Jensen himself
j uggles in elegant garments and appears to be a
gentleman of advanced civilisation. Among other
deeds of mystery he planks a grisly skull on a
sheet of plate-glass, and the skull, after explaining
what things have happened already, predicts what
is going to occur with unerring precision. An
artist covers a plain canvas Avith mad daubs of
colour for five minutes, when he turns his effort
upside down and reveals an oil-painting of vast
beauty. A lineal descendant of Mohamed also
Avallows in the black art assisted by a SAveet thing
in maidens, and a number of minor accessories
Waste their refining influence upon rather poor
attendances.
* *- -;k- *-
“Fun on the Bristol” took root and
flourished at Melbourne Opera House, but in other
places drama is decidedly dotty. An unexpected
falling-off in the reception of “ Captain Swift,”
at the Princess’s, is presumptive evidence that the
first night’s enthusiasm Avas fixed up for the occasion
by a thoughtful management. The Oapting didn’t
catch on afterwards, and the everlasting emotion
of Mr. Charles Warner Avas watched Avith com-
parative indifference all last Aveek. He is pro-
bably chief among a batch of reasons why “Cap-
tain SAvift” hasn’t fulfilled its promise in these
parts, his particular failure being attributable to
the unfortunate habit of taking a theatrical
hammer to break a literary egg. Instead of pre-
servings the yolk intact Mr. Warner splatters it
all over the ulace and glares at the ruin he has
wrought. No matter —in the hour of trouble Miss
Jennie Lee’s throat seems to be well again, so on
Saturday the former company will present “ Jack-
in-the-Box ” for the critics to throw things at.
-*■ * *
“ Hamlet” lingered on at the Alexandra
until Saturday night because the vice-regal persons
had promised their patronage for the occasion.
Then Mr. Dampier gathered up the bruised re-
mains of Shakespeare’s immortal conception and
put them out of sight in the silent tomb of sad
experience. On Monday last he was to produce
the “ Wages of Sin ” by arrangement with the
immortal Holloway, and the large theatre, doubt-
less, filled to its bung-hole as heretofore. At the
Royal they are putting in the concluding nights of
“ Silver King,” previous to an expensive revival
of “ Harbour Lights.” This event is billed for
Saturday nights. Other shows are scrambling for
the crumbs with great fury.
* *■ * *-
Per contra St. George’s Hall is doing a
thriving business with the London Pavilion Com-
pany, a crowd of average luminaries who revolve
around good old Jolly Nash. Sixteen generations,
more or less, have worshipped at the shrine pf
Nash, and his presence here must be a surprise to
many escaped Londoners, long labouring under an
impression that the little birds were singing on his
grave. The sight of him, throwing it off his chest
in the old style, brings back sinful memories of the
past to many highly-respectable minds and
accounts for large quantities of “ representative ”
citizens turning up silently in false whiskers.
** * *
The Silbon-Stirk combination have done
excellently at Adelaide Royal. The Royal
Midgets, at the local Town Hall, have also pros-
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENG. CO., 8 BRIDGE-ST., SYDNEY.
MRS. ROBERT BROUGH.
PHOTO BY FALK.
pared, and have by their grace, intelligence, and
lively conversation become most popular. Lady
Kintore has invited them to Government House
for afternoon tea.
At Poverty Point.
_ Tiie Cogill Bros, are in Launceston doing well.
George Darrell will shortly form a company to tour New
Zealand.
Young Nome, a Melbourne boy, possessed of a beautiful
alto voice, is now' in America, to which country he was
taken by the Only Leon. Nome’s voice has charmed the
Yanks.
Hicks’ Georgia Minstrels have disbanded. Some are on
the road, others are in Melbourne hash-foundries, and
some are at Melbourne Waxw'orks. Hicks himself thinks
of running some kind of a show' at Sydney Academy.
Letty Levyne is at the Bella Union theatre, ’Frisco,
w ith.a band of female minstrels styled “ Australian.”
A contingent of the Brough-Bouoicault Company are
appearing in Newcastle with success. Their hiz. in
Adelaide was quiet. Titheradge heads the show'.
Manager Solomon’s coming novelty will consist of a
museum to be called “ Solomon’s Temple of Varieties.”
It will be located directly opposite Sydney ToYn Hall in
Oeorge-street.
It is said that George Darrell, who was in Sydney last
w'eek, has relinquished his idea of leasing the local Gaiety.
The Katie Putnam troupe will play there for a month.
Alf. Moynham, late of the Federal Minstrels, has been
engaged by W., G. and M. as a property man.
Charles Arnold opens at M‘Vicar’s Theatre, Chicago, in
“Hans the Boatman,” on 14th September.
Fields and Hanson, w'ell-known in Australia, are doing
well (professionally) in America —though shortly after
their arrival in ’Frisco the latter performer had the mis-
fortune to lose his wife, whom he buried in that city.
A very well-known female vocalist will shortly “star”
in the N.S.W. Divorce Court, and probably the names of
some prominent male “ pros.” will figure in the evidence.
“Tommy” Hudson is about to make another trip to
ndia. This is about his twelfth visit.
Little Kate Foley, whom Australian playgoers will weir
remember, is in demand in America as a soubrette.
Hugo’s Buffalo Minstrels have been highly successful
throughout !N.Z., and intend to make Wellington their
head-quarters. Messrs. Alf. Santley, Harry Hastings, and
Oscar Smith leave Australia shortly to join the troupe.
The Borani Bros, sail for England, per Orient, on 7th
Sept. The younger brother has recovered the use of his
wrist, fractured some weeks back.
Little Ida Heath, the clever child-danseuse who was in
Australia a year ago, is now appearing in Boston (U.S.A.V
with great success.
Charlie \ erner, well known some years ago in his pro-
fession (particularly in Sydney, at the old Cafe Chantaiit :
York-street), is now starring in Irish drama in the States.’ ;
Chas. Wallace, who joined forces with Brown and New-
land in London as minstrel comedian, has abandoned the
game and taken to bookmaking.
Cecil Ward has committed—Matrimony, so ’tis said.
Colonial variety performers have learnt their lesson, and t
are now able to “drop” to the “gas” and “bluff” of'
American performers in the same line. The Australians;
have got tired and want a rest from such bombast.
It is said that Parson Jefferis was rescued from the hoofs
of a furious cab-horse in front of Sydney Criterion Theatre
the other evening by Manager “Johnny” Solomon, who.
gently murmured in the ear of the trembling cleric :
“S’elp me, though we’re running opposition shows we
can’t afford to lose you yet.”
The Katie Putnam Comedy Company open at the Sydney
Gaiety on Saturday next in “The Old Curiosity Shop,"”
when Katie will double as Nell and the Marchioness.
The Finkelstein’s new lecture is entitled “From the
Cradle to the Cross.” Most parents have heretofore con-
sidered that the hiatus is brief.
Thompson, Sydney hoy, who used to melodiously toot ■
a cornet in Australia half-a-dozen years ago, is now the
Panjandrum of Thompson’s Opera'Company, playing, at
last advices, in Baltimore, U.S. Carrie Godfrey, his wife.
(“ Grandfather’s Clock ”) is the prima-donna.
J. P. Polk and his charming wife were playing in Cali
fornia last month.
The story goes that the Mutual Admiration Society,
which erst did sit at the feet of Pastor Jefferis in Pitt-
street, “ Sydney, w'anted to speak a little fronii Wiliianx
Shakespeare at one of their recent gatherings. Foolish
young men—for was not that the kind of thing indulged
in at Johnny Solomon’s theatre next door to the Jeflerisian
playhouse? They were probably sat upon by the good
pastor, but they had the pluck to turn and carry a motion
of dissent.
Violet Ellioott and her nice complexion have left for
London. N.B.—She carries the complexion in a jar.
A London paper has the following tarradiddle about
Myra Kemble“ The fair Myra is credited with having
brought a larger number of men down on their marrowy-
bones suing for her hand and heart than any other woman
south of the line. One infatuated gentleman even went
so far as to obtain a license before asking the fair one to he
his own.”
An acute American observer has recorded that “ The
only indication of the advanced years of the actress is in
the appearance of her elbow r s, which show' the w'rinkles of
age.” So like Achilles, even the tough old hens of the
colonial stage have a vulnerable spot.
Christine Nilsson, the Swedish singer, is not a snob.
She w'as once at the house of a retired millionaire near
New York ; and a distinguished company had been invited
to meet her at dinner. On entering the dining-room she
dropped her host’s arm, and, hurrying in amazement to
the stately young butler, seized him effusively by the
hand and engaged him in conversation, while the other
guests stood w'aiting, and the entertainer looked on in
astonishment. “ That man,” she explained to the group
when they were seated, “is the son of a kind old noble-
man, on whose estate my father worked as a day-laborer
w r hen we were children.”
Piske, in his reminiscences of the London Savage Club,
tells of the performance of “The School for Scandal” by
the club, when Dr. Strauss was cast for Moses. He ap-
peared before the committee, and gravely inquired: “ Vil
I Way dot hart mit a hacsent or shoost as I speak now.”
The committee as gravely advised him to play it with a
Hebrew' accent.
The thinner the hair the nearer the footlights.
Frank Lincoln w r as making the people of Wellington
(N.Z.) “ lafl ” at last advices.
Mrs. C. F. Everest, nom de stage, Miss Alice Bray, well
known in Melbourne in the early sixties as a lecturess
and a burlesque . actress, died at Wellington (N.Z.) the
other day.
Why Pay Rent?
It cannot be denied that the man who from his
hard-earned earnings weekly disburses a large
sum in payment of rent, as a rule, equal to one -
fifth of its total, is seriously handicapped in the
race for happiness and the struggle for existence.
A pound per week' is equal to £52 yearly, and if
you reckon up in the same proportion the rent
payments of a lifetime, the total will reach an
altitude fairly staggering to contemplate. Hon
many comforts, how many necessities, how many
innocent pleasures for himself and his family is
the man forced to forego who is thus burdened '
’.Surely very many. The wisdom of persistence in
such a crippling course of conduct while the means
■of escape are within reach cannot be defended.
Why pay rent when you can easily become your
own landlord ? Why toil, why strain every
muscle, why economise, why deny your little ones,
why sacrifice self when a door of escape stands
widely opened ? Surely no valid reason exists. Such
■conduct is foolhardy, apathetic, utterly defenceless.
Yet men, otherwise far-seeing and shrewd, tread,
year after year, the rutty paths of tenantry, year
rafter year contribute from their small stores largely
ito the well-being of others, and the enormity of
their stupidity never seems for a moment to
awaken a sense of the necessity that exists for an
immediate alteration of environment. Why not
throw off these shackles of rent, why not claim
Emancipation from the slavery of landlordism ?
The charge must be beneficial to you and yours,
pecuniarily, morally and sanitarily. There can
(be no doubt as to the monetary advantage of free-
dom from the rent incubus, as to the moral and
sanitary aspect. \ou live, perhaps, in an ill-built
house in a crowded neighbourhood ; your landlord
refuses to make necessary alterations, and you
knowing the difficulty of obtaining a more suitable
residence, caring not to face the miseries of re-
moval, remain, and, not desirous of spending
money in improving the property of another, sub-
mit patiently to inconveniences. You do not
enjoy good health, nor do your children, and
.association with the undesirable does not tend toim
prove their behaviour. Thus, morality beinv.
largely consonant on sanitation and sur-
roundings, your meek submission to circumstance.-
impairs the health and morality of those dear to
you as life. Should such a state of things exist >
Do not a thousand tongues cry out to you U>
afford your little ones the opportunity for fui.l
mental and physical development, which it is your
duty as a man and a parent to provide. You «av
—What can I do? I can’t afford to purchase a,
home; I can't afford to live far away from my
business ; I know of no desirable suburb where I
.could give them the freedom you claim for them.
Those excuses shall no longer avail. Owing to tin-
commercial depression caused by bad seasons and
in is-government, land is to be more cheaply ob-
tained at present in the neighbourhood of Sydney
than during any other period of the last ten year-.
You can't afford to pay cash for land ? Well, that
is not necessary. You can buy land by a system
of Deferred Payments, probably not higher per
week than the rental sum you now pay, that will
make you, inside of ten years, your own landlord,
the owner of, say, a quarter of an acre of
fertile and valuable ground, a freeman, the
father of a happy and healthy family, and
the husband of a wife whose brain is not tormented
with worries as to how the rent-collector is to be
faced every Monday morning. You say—How i s
it to be done? Where is the land? Well, the
estate in view is named Haroourt. It is situated
seven miles by road from the metropolis, within
easy distance of three rail way-stations, and will
also be tapped by the new loop-line to Liverpool.
Tor the comparatively-speaking insignificant sum
of one pound seven shillings and sixpence per month
you can, after payment of the first instalment,
take Immediate Possession of vour property. You
can at once proceed to fence, build, and cultivate.
Aor will you, as in all new suburbs, meet with
many inconveniences. Here the roads—fine,
wide thoroughfares, running from one chain up to
a chain and a-half—are all made, kerbed. guttered,
and chanelled. Everyone of them is aligned by
dry, smooth footpaths; everyone shaded by
avenues of trees. Moreover, the ground of this
aptly-named Model Suburb is not only natur-
ally well-drained, but everything has been
done for the carrying away of storm-water
that experience could suggest. Furthermore, in
order to stimulate buyers' to early settlement the
sum of £lO,OOO sterling (ten thousand pounds) will
be divided among the first settlers, apportioned in
accordance with the date of erection and the value
of buildings. Not only will Building Bonuses be
distributed, but punctual payers will participate
m the sum of Three Thousand Pounds (£3000),
which will be distributed during the first three
and a half years after purchase. Nor is this all.
It is intended to furnish the residents with good
street-lighting by means of electricity, thus setting
an example to the neighbouring boroughs of Bur-
wood, Ashfield, and Croydon, which they would
do well to follow'. Here it may be remarked that
the scenery in the neighbourhood is beautiful, tin-
walks many and varied, while good fishing is to be
had in the w aters of Cook’s Liver, which borders
the Estate. Then, in purchase by this system, there
need be no fear of forfeiture. For should anything
prevent punctual payment, on application to the
vendors, the cwrier will be allowed a period of
Three Months Grace in which to regain his
pecuniary equilibrium. From this system the ex
tortion of interest on balance due has been wholly
eliminated, and as a further advantage it includes
Life Assurance- during the period of probation,
free from medical inspection. Thus, should a
purchaser die ere his payments are completed, his
heirs are entitled to take immediate possession of
his land without further payment; or, relinquish-
ing the land, will be paid its full value. There
are many other advantages appended to the pur-
chase of Harcourt Estate that cannot here be de-
tailed. Intending buyers will be given Eree Rail-
way Inspection Passes, descriptive pamphlets,
tables of terms, plans and maps, on application at
the Company’s offices, while the Burwood agent
will drive them over the Estate and make, every-
thing clear to them. The address of the vendors!?
Phillips and Co., Austral Banking and Laud
Proprietary Co., Carrington Chambers, No. G
Castlereagn-street, Sydney


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
—A—
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment 00., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
“Theleading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market. ”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Znglis & Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Book v. Machine.
THE SPORTING SHARK AND HIS HATED
RIVAL.
The most virulent opponents of the Totali-
zator or Consultation are not the goody-goody
]icoplc who object to betting per se, but the profes-
sional betting-men. As somebody has written,
the objection of the bookmaker to the totaliza-
tor much resembles the objection of the rat
to the cat. Satan’s denunciation of sin could
not be one whit more suspicious than our
bookmaker’s indignation against an institution
which tempts little office-boys and underpaid
junior clerks to dip their fingers into their masters’
tills, or inveigles the wharf-lumper to disregard
the cry of starving wife and children. The
Totalisator has already attracted much attention
all over the Australias, btit, owing to a new de-
parture or modification, has recently assumed ad-
ditional prominence. The police-courts, the press,
and the Assembly in N.S.W. have had much to
say on the subject, while V ictoria and Queens-
land have already framed and enforced laws ti
deal with this form of betting.
* * *
It is certain that betting has existed in
all lands since men had anything to bet
about. The slant-eyed child of Confucius,
whose sobriety, patience, and industry are ex-
tolled by maudlin Caucasians, is as much ad-
dicted to the vice as is the common white
man. During the eighteenth century, cards
and so on were played for high stakes, just as
they are now, but betting in conjunction with
sport, which constitutes nine-tenths of the gamb-
ling of to-day, was almost unknown. Less than
a hundred years ago the professional bookmaker
did not exist; to-day the turf is a mere medium fer
speculation, and without betting it would soon
decline. Once racing was really a means of im-
proving the breed of racehorses, but the tendency
of modern racing is to produce deterioration. The
system of long distances, heavy weights, and heats
which formerly prevailed, necessitated animals of
courage, strength, and stamina, but that in vogue
nowadays tends to bring forth speedy “weeds”
and to transform the racehorse into a mere gam-
bling machine —just as, in the case of foot-racing,
short distances have been substituted for long ones
to increase the chance element which leads to
gambling. To assert that modem racing is carried
on “to improve the breed of horses ” is merely a
Pharisaical subterfuge offered to explain away a
national vice. Let betting be abolished and the
turf and its hangers-on will soon disappear—into
other realms of rascality. England has only
known half-a-dozen men who raced solely for sport
—who never made a wager. Some who bet are
termed “ straight ” owners, because, while betting
themselves, they allow' the public to participate in
their good or ill luck, and never race a horse for
the purpose of deceiving the handicapper or en-
riching themselves at the expense of the general
body of backers. In Australia, not air owner
could be classed within the first category, and we
know of only one who could justly be placed under
the second. Most owners, if not betting-men or
in league with betting-men, are, at any rate, quite
indifferent to any interest which the public may
have in their successes. This may explain why
favourites are so often defeated or scratched on
the eve of a great race.
* # #
Every people, like every individual, is
mad on some particular subject. The British race
are at present mad on the subject of betting. This
mania has given birth to special classes, such as
jockeys, trainers, and betting-men, with their col-
leagues, the touts and the commissioners. We see
men, possessed of every advantage that birth, edu-
cation, and wealth can confer, drifting towards
ruin, while others from humble —aye, and even
from criminal ranks —are elbowing their way to
fame and fortune. The scions of nobie houses are
mortgaging their acres to enrich coarse fellow's
who began life as billiard-markers or stable-
helps, and who, in many instances, have
either spent part of their lives in gaol or avoided
prison by sheer good luck. The loud dress and
ill-assorted jewellery of the vulgar bookmaker and
his still more vulgar love-mate, show that his calling
is a lucrative one. In no other occupation do the
lower-class Jews muster so strongly, which fact is
sufficient evidence of its advantages, for, unlike
poor “Trust” of bar-room memory, the children of
Israel rarely die of hard work and bad pay. About
nine years ago a prominent Birmingham police-
official stated that nearly all the skilful criminals,
for which the Midland Capital w r as a few years
before notorious, had forsaken their evil w'ays, and
the mere petty cracksman, whose quondam trade
was unlocking ladies’ handbags, now lived in a
villa, drove a pair, and was a church-going “ re-
spectable ” citizen of the upper-middle class —in
other words, he and his brother-robbers had
quitted thieving for the more lucrative and respec-
table profession of laying the odds. In Cali-
fornia and Australia fortunes have been quickly
made out of alluvial, but the world’s goldfields
have not furnished so many instances of a rapid
rise from poverty to affluence as has the betting-
ring within the last half-century. There is, how-
ever, an essential difference between the two eases.
The miner digs gold out of the bowels of the earth,
the bookmaker extracts it from the pockets of his
fellow-men ! one adds to the currency of the com-
munity, the other does not.
* * *
That the bookmaker is sure to win in the
end is indisputable. A backer ’is certain to get
worsted, provided he keeps on long enough. Men
have scored an occasional big win, but, unless
they immediately retired, their winnings have
returned to the betting-bag. A well-knowm
English writer has published the opinions of
Archer, Fordham, and the leading jockeys on this
matter, and the only conclusion derivable there-
from is that backing horses must invariably result
in loss. This is only natural. The bookmaker,
under the fairest circumstances, has a knowledge
of his business, devotes all his time to it, secures
the latest intelligence by employing touts, all
which advantages are denied more or Jess to the
average backer, who has other things to think
about. Then again, the former dictates his own
terms, lays a certain price against a horse, or does
not lay against him at all, just as he feels inclined.
This, as already remarked, occurs under the fairest
possible circumstances. How much greater is his
chance of winning when he owns racehorses or has
influence over other owners, by which means he
can rush an animal into favouritism and scratch
him at the eleventh hour, after extracting hun-
dreds or thousands from the public pocket! More-
over, recent revelations point to collusion between
the Ring and the jockeys, as well as owners. Yain
and weak-minded people ai-e continually reminding
us of the “good things” they have backed, and
if their stories were anything like true the profes
sional bookmaker would soon become bankrupt.
But the latter flourishes instead, while the bank-
clerk who has falsified accounts, and the cashier
who has embezzled, whine in the dock that betting
alone has tempted them to crime. The bookmaker’s
buggy dashes along the suburban road on Sunday,
and the diamonds and silks of the “ metallician ”
and his wife, or paramour, flash in the sun,
while the wife of the artisan or labourer complains
that more domestic misery springs from the curse
of betting than from the curse of drink, and that
is saying much. Therefore, when we find the
betting-men condemning the Totalisator we cannot
accept their denunciations without suspicion and
inquiry. Every evil with which they charge the
so-called “infernal machine” they themselves have
been guilty of.
* * *
The Totalisator or parimutuel was about
1868 introduced in Franee, where it still flourishes.
In 1868 it was tried in England, but, after a
few years it was declared illegal in a prosecu-
tion supposed to have been instigated by the
bookmakers. Unequal and absurd class legisla-
tion on the subject of betting is ascribable to the
same influences, for the betting-ring wields huge
I>olitical power. Many a member of Parliament is,
through his “ debts of honour,” a mere tool in the
hands of the pencilling brigade. In America the
machine met with opposition from the same quarter.
It has also incurred the hostility of those who own
racehorses, and, as the latter have a stronger voice
in Parliament than even the bookmakers them-
selves, it is no wonder that the Totalisator has been
declared illegal. This, however, does not imply
that it is against the public weal, or that its aboli-
tion has been attended by public benefit. Whether
or not the Totalisator is a desirable institution,
it is preferable to the army of bookmakers. Just
now the law is being directed against the former
in several of the Australias, but at the handle of
the legal engine stands “ vested interest,” not the
public weal. The great cry raised against “con-
sultations ” comes not from those who have lost
by patronising them, nor even from those
who conscientiously object to gambling in
any form, but from the very people who
thrive on betting. In short, the struggle is
Bookmaker v. Machine.
* * *
In Tasmania, New Zealand, South
Australia and Queensland, the Totalisator
is already legally recognised, but in the
two most populous colonies, Victoria and
New South Wales, it is under the ban
of the law. But, just as Sunday closing
SHE WAS TALKING.
Scene: Police Court.
WINESS (proceeding to give evidence
before taking the oath): “As I
was going home last Sunday I
ees-”
CONSTABLE : “Kiss the book, Missis!’
WITNESS (turning on him): “Oh'
kiss the book indade! Don’t you
see I'm talking to his Worchip!”
has not prevented Sunday drunkenness, so State
prohibition has not abolished the “tote,” which
may in all fairness be allowed the privileges en-
joyed by the Monster Consultation. One of the
biggest prizes handed over by these same Consul-
tations was won by a policeman, thereby showing
that the ordinary member of the “foorce”
and his superiors who are entrusted with the ad-
ministration of the law occasionally “invest” their
money. In Victoria, where the restrictions are
greatest, this kind of speculation flourishes, as
witness the recent prosecutions. In fact we have
seen a “Consultation” conducted openly at
Flemington on Cup day, while in New Zealand
half-ci’own sweeps, made on the course, were some
years ago legalised by Parliament, such legalisa-
tion arising out of the prosecution of the Speaker
of the Legislative Council, a K.C.MG. too, for
shaking’em up in the hat.” In N.S. Wales the
law is enforced in a perfunctory manner, with the
result that more money could not be invested, had
a betting law never been framed. The Place
Consultation is merely a modification of the
Totalisator conducted in such a manner as
to secure more public support. The Totali-
sator is literally a machine which acts as a
check on the operator or receiver of backers’
investments, and is conducted for the benefit of
racing-clubs. The Consultation can be conducted
by anybody, dispenses with the mechanical con-
trivance (a check being provided by other means),
and, instead of being protected or recognised by
law, is actually conducted under the risk of fine
and imprisonment.
# *
The Consultations, first promoted by one
or two “ big ” men, whose names have been
notorious, if not famous, throughout the Southern
Hemisphere, adopted the same rule, but lately a
modification has been introduced in the Place
Consultation. This consists of dividing the
pool or total amount of deposits, after pay-
ment of promoters’ expenses, among those
who back the placed horses in the following
proportions : Winner, 50 per cent. ; second,
30 ; third, 20. In horse-racing three horses
only are placed, but in the big pedestrian
handicaps at Botany and Carington Grounds, four
men run in the final heat and are awarded prizes.
The Place Consultation has recently taken cogni-
zance of these events, and the proportions paid are
as follows: Winner, 40 per cent. ; second, 30 ;
third, 20; fourth, 10. It must be remembered
that the operator or conductor of the venture de-
ducts 10 per cent, as his own commission, and if
he does his work honestly this charge cannot be
considered extravagant. The following example
wall explain the modus operandi. A Place Con-
sultation on a big event closes with 400
subscribers or backers at ss. each. The
amount paid by the latter is thus always a fixed
sum, while the bookmaker is not limited in deal-
ing with his clients. The sum received will be £lOO,
and this amount, less 10 per cent, commission, is
divided thus : £5O to the backers of the winning
horse, £3O to those who “fancied” the second, and
£2O to the supporters of the third. If 60 persons
spuported the first they would receive £1 each ; if
only one* he would receive £5O —a nice return for
an outlay of five shillings ; while a single supporter
of the third would receive £2O. This explains why
backers of the second or third horse often receive
more than do those who support the actual winner,
and accounts for the popularity of Consultations.
* * #
It will be seen that the more heartily a
winner is supported by the subscribers or backers
the less will be the dividend paid over, and that
when a “dark horse” (one backed by but few) wins,
his friends are certainly lucky. In Place Consul-
tations the total number of subscribers, as well as
the amount due to each competitor, is published
before the race, and while this plan is faithfully
carried out, fraud is extremely difficult. Even
opponents of this system must concede that, if
honestly conducted, it is more desirable than that
which is the medium of enriching a rogue at the ex-
pense of those who put faith in him. Perhaps
the Totalisator, which is now the common desig-
nation of this class of speculation, might be placed
under State control and conducted for the joint
encouragement of legitimate sport and for the
maintenance of charitable institutions.
# * *
If betting is allowed to exist at all—and,
like the drink traffic, it cannot be suppressed by
Act of Parliament —then the Totalisator is far
preferable to bookmaking, no matter what may
be said to the contrary by a subsidised section of
the press. Not an argument is advanced against
the Totalisator but can be applied still more
strongly to the betting-men. The former may
induce children and others to bet who cannot
afford to do so, but is the “ penciller ” ever known
to turn away money ?
Nor is the grievance of the owner more
worthy of sympathy. Of course when he backs
his horse by means of the Totalisator, this en-
courages the public to pin their faith on the
animal. The result is that, should the latter win,
the dividend or odds diminish, because the amount
is divided among more backers, while the
owner cannot “hedge off” by putting into the
market a commission against his horse. He is
obliged to compete fairly or lose the amount de-
posited. It is indisputable that the Totalisator
deals a deadly blow to those owners who make
money by betting. But is racing carried on for
the benefit of such persons? Should the “sport of
kings ” exist merely for the sake of enriching those
owners who cannot afford to keep thoroughbreds,
unless by recouping themselves through betting ?
An admission of this kind only proves our former
remark, that racing is carried on for the sake df
betting and without any regard to improving the
breed of horses. Moreover, this objection cannot
be sustained if the Totalisator and the bookmaker
are allowed to co-exist. The owners could then
bet with the professional layers, while these, de-
prived of many customers through the competition
of the Totalisator, would, on the principle of
supply and demand, be forced to give more liberal
odds.
#. # *
Though it possesses no drawback which is
not common to its rival, the new system is attended
by many advantages. In one case the bookmakeis
dictate terms to the public, in the other the public
by their own competition determine the rate of
odds. The consequence is that one may lay 400 to 1
against a winner—a rate of odds never obtainable
from the other. Nay, the backer of a third often
obtains more than he would, were he to invest a
like sum on the winner with a bookmaker. More-
over, the promoter has not any particular interest
in one horse more than in another. Properly con-
ducted, the affair only brings him a certain per-
centage which never varies. He cannot determii e
the rate of odds even if he were a backer or had an
interest in any particular horse. Herein lies the
grand secret of the popularity and high dividends
which have attended the new style. The
are content with a fixed sum, and are consequently
indifferent whether the backers of a winner make
a fortune, or barely obtain their own stakes. In
ordinary betting the general public are opposed to
the bookmakers, and if the latter can afford to live
on the game and make fortunes, it is, and must be,
only at the expense of the former. With the
Totalisator it is different. Excepting the percent-
age deducted by the management, the money de-
posited still remains with the general body of
backers. Those who are fortunate enough to have
fancied the placed horses win what is lost by their
less fortunate fellow-sportsmen, who may have
better luck next time. Let the public wildly
“ plunge ” so as to grieve the heart of Dr. Fitchett,
but the money will still remain with them though
it may change hands. The promoter of the
ventures obtains his commission, by no means ex-
orbitant, but, though a Cup and a Derby took
place every week, no special class would be able to
thrive on the game. The bookmaker would then
be forced to adopt some useful calling and could
no longer live on the foibles of his fellow citizens.
* * *
Such a change would do more towards
purifying the turf than could all the edicts of
jockey-clubs and the turgid injunctions and some-
times insincere sermons of the sporting writers.
At the present time we have the betting-worlu
divided into bookmakers and the backers. But of
the latter we have two classes—first, the general
public who do not live by the turf; second, the
army of owners, trainers and jockeys who do.
Now many betting-men own racehorses or exercise
a considerable influence over those at the head of
the stables, as well as over the jockeys. For this
reason, nothing is more common than a confederacy
between the ring and a certain class of owners,
trainers and jockeys, by which both succeed in
robbing the general public. Of course it is per-
fectly absurd to assume that the latter can win
over a horse in any way controlled by the betting-
men. In the case of the totali-'ator or consulta-
tion, such a combination is impossible, and the
two parties, instead of living on the outside world,
would be forced to compete among themselves.
This would quickly abolish false favourites, late
scratch ings, and the inconsistent running which
are now so prevalent.
* * *
In a recent issue of the Fortnightly
Review, Mr. William Day has an article on “ Turf
Reform,” and this eminent authority is very much
in favour of legalising the Totalisator in England :
Referring to this, he would like to see the instrument
introduced to all meetings, with the consent and under
the direction of the Jockey Club. He says “ Were that
accomplished, it would effectively do away with some
great evils, among them that of owners laying against
their horses. Probably nothing else will ever abolish that
pernicious practice.”
He is thus in accordance with our opinion—written
before his paper reached Australia —that it fur-
nishes the only means of preventing owners from
laying against their own horses, which practice is
the most dangerous of all that threatens the
extinction of true sport.
3? # *
Our final conclusion—and we have given a
full consideration of the subject from every stand-
point which has suggested itself to us—is, that
as betting cannot be put down by legal restrictions
it would be better in the interests of the public
and of the sport to allow the spirit of gambling to
vent itself by investment in a State-regulated Totali-
sator. In the first place, of course, the interests
of the public have to be considered. Our idea is
that the principal racing authorities in Australia,
say the Y.R.C., A. J.C., &c., or a board formed of
representatives of all the clubs, should be invested
by the legislatures with the management of the
Totalisator under certain restrictions. This is what
is done in New Zealand and is found to work
most satisfactorily. The racing authorities should
be empowered to deduct 10 per cent, from the
amount passing through the machine on every
race, and should be bound by statute to devote
one-half of this deduction to the encouragement of
racing by adding the money so obtained to the
prizes. Admittedly the introduction of a State-
authorised Totalisator would limit the capacity of
the betting-ring for laying long odds in large sums
to the owners. Giving effect to our suggestion
that 5 per cent, of the money passed through
the machine should be given in prizes would be
a quid pro quo to the owners for the loss they
would sustain through the curtailment of their
betting privileges. The Totalisator so conducted
would prevent “stiff” running, late scratching, and
other abominations, and while compelling owners
from interested motives to be honest, it would not
diminish their profits. The interests of the public
would also be conserved, as they would obtain a
straight run for their money. The remainder of
the 10 per cent, deducted we would suggest
should be devoted, say, 3| per cent, to specified
charities while the balance of H would be re-
quired to defray the cost of working the
totalisators. This proportion for expenses is
found sufficient in New Zealand, where lesser
sums are wagered than would be on this
side of the water, so that the margin we
allow for expenses should be more than suffi-
cient here. And on one point we feel perfectly
clear: that the right of using the Totalisator
should be limited entirely to the clubs, that
they should be worked on the racecourses
solely, and that specluation should le per-
mitted on the day of running only. There,should
be a fair field for owners and public alike. In
conclusion, we may add that the N.Z. Gaming and
Lotteries Act, which has been found to operate
very successfully, might be introduced by the
Australian Legislatures in gloho, and if later on
amendments suggested by local experience were
found necessary they could be made.


For Prostration
USK horsford’s acid phosphate.
Dr N. I. Butler, L.K.Q.0.P., 52 Longgtone-road,
Eastbourn, Eng., says : “ I have used it in convalescence
from acute diseases, (fever, etc.) where there was profound
prostration, with complete loss of appetite. Its effects
were very quickly manifested and most satisfactory. I
have also used it in cases of general debility with good
results. I regard it as a most valuable addition to our
materia raedica.”
Everybody should use Femell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hirs.
John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
JL.A.JXTID AO-ESKT-X-S,
Business Brokers A Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &o.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &c.
Printed List Businesses for Sale issued Baily.
All Lists posted Free on application.
Personal Items.
Stanley comes a-lecturing to Australia
next year possibly.
Byron’s grandson, Viscount Ockham, has
just completed his jubilee.
It is said in England that Beatrice’s Bat-
tenberg is to be made Duke of Kent.
Bret Harte is to receive 2s. 6d. a line for
a short serial he is writing for a London periodical.
The Earl of Fife, afraid of the Radicals,
has recently turned into cash considerable portions
of his estates.
Queenslanders assert that W. 0. Hodgkin-
son, M.P. for Burke (Q.), is the king of Austra-
lian post-prandial orators.
The man Macnamara, charged with the
murder of Robert Fry, at Pakenham (Vic.), is
a bush-poet. Verb. sap.
Sir Napier Broome, of AV.A., is described
as a gubernatorial salamander who can’t live
comfortably out of hot water.
Mr. Charles Lett, late of Sydney (Heu-
niker Heaton’s right-hand man), is now spoken of
in the Irish papers as “ Major Lett.”
The scene of David Christie Murray’s next
novel will be laid at Teneriffe. He spent a fort-
night there on his way out to Australia.
Tuesday week was Sir Alfred Stephen’s
birthday. They hanged a man in Sydney on
Tuesday week. Unqueer coincidence !
Just 50 years ago, Sir Archibald Michie,
Q.C., now of Melbourne, arrived in Sydney and
got employment as law-reporter on the press.
Judge Windeyer, it appears, is of Swiss
ancestry. The Bulletin has often thought his
justice was not quite “British.” And certainly
it n’t Swiss.
The Queen “ has vetoed the publication of
Montague Corry’s (Lord Rowton) memoirs of
Beaconsfield during her life-time.” “ During heß
life-time ” is good.
Dr. Brownless, Chancellor of the Mel-
bourne University, while presiding over the
council, talks of “idears.” How does that sound
for a University don ?
Millais says that the reason why press
criticisms of pictures are so utterly incomprehen-
sible and conflicting is that the critics are mainly
“broken-down artists.”
David Christie Murray gained his literary
experience' as a police-court reporter, and his
knowledge of life’s drama as a homeless, hungry
roamer in London streets.
A certain Australian bank-manager, on
receiving a presentation-locket three weeks ago,
said that “ it would remain an heirloom in his
family as long as he lived.”.
John Dillon and General Norman met
“quite promiscuous” at Toowoomba (Q.) last
week. The well-wived warrior shook hands with
the Plan-of-Campaigner heartily.
Swinburne, once a Radical, is now a queen-
worshipper. Formerly a Materialist, he now raves
muchly of the Deity, and declares that he has set
up “ God for guide.” It’s just about time.
Bishop Moorhouse lately showed his in-
difference to the sectarianism of the age by enter-
taining the R.C. Bishop of Salford, brother of the
late Archbishop Vaughan, at a garden-party.
Sir William Jenner has advised the Queen
to stick to whisky and apollinaris, and give cham-
pagne a rest. At latest dates Her Gracious was
energetically carrying out the doctor’s instructions.
Gladstone has increased his allowance of
wine for dinner, rarely drinking less than a pint
of his favourite port now. He says that quantity
affects him less than a half-pint did a generation
ago.
Much-advertised Fergus Hume has let it
be known that he is never without a c py of
Herrick in his pocket. Were Herrick alive, we’ll
swear he’d never give pocket-room to Fergus
Hume.
“Little” Barton, the “city editor,” alias
“ sub,” of the Brisbane Courier, fills the deputy-
chair almost as well as a bigger man. “ Slow and
silent graft” is his motto. “Sub Rosa ” they
call him.
Editor Hutton, of London Spectator, has
put away his little gumpot and shears, and is about
to become “a Catholic recluse.” He was, until
lately, a Unitarian. His appointment was worth
£2OOO a year.
It is reported that Sir Charles Gavan Duffy
is about to be married—for the fourth time. Now
then, Parkes ! Duffy’s first marriage did not take
place until his thirty-sixth year. His motto i
evidently late and often.
Bismarck appears to have prided himself
in taking exceptional liberties with his constitu-
tion. In a talk during the French war he fondly
recalled the days when he could swallow a dozen
hard-boiled eggs at a sitting.
Henry George has been a reporter, a com-
mercial clerk, a compositor, and a sailor, and be-
tween all four callings, has picked up enough
worldly wisdom to stay away from Australia with-
out a cash guarantee of £lOOO.
The Shah is getting economical in his old
age. The Berlin Court officials, who expected
nothing less than Kohinoors from the successor to
Darius and Xerxes, each received the Persian
potentate’s photo, framed in German silver !
Mrs. Campbell Praed is collaborating with
Justin M'Carthy in the authorship of a book on
the picturesque aspects of London life. It will be
an edition de luxe, illustrated by Mortimer Menpes,
and if you want a copy you must put down ten
guineas.
Lord Dunlo, who married Coryphee Bilton
(at the point of the bayonet, it is now said) is
described as a tall, slim young man, with a smooth
face and a big nose, and his hair parted in the
middle—so that both his ears will have an equal
chance to flap.
Somebody explained to the Shah lately all
about Gladstone’s golden-wedding. “ Ah !” ob-
served Nasr-ed-Din, evidently thinking of his
well-stocked harem at Teheran, “ it is better to
live with one wife for 50 years than with 50 wives
for one year!”
Mrs. Maybrick has been reprieved. Two
women were executed in Kirkdale Gaol, Liverpool
(where Mrs. Maybrick has lain under sentence of
death) four years ago, for murder by poison in
cases where the evidence was a lot weaker than
m the Maybrick case.
The Shah has turned wag in his old age.
When the gaudy heathen discovered an officer
dozing, newspaper in hand, in the smoking-room
of a London club, he wanted to know whether the
warrior hadn't been wearied by reading columns
of stuff about the Shah.
Albert \ ictor, eldest son of the Prince of
VV ales,is to be sent to India to divert his mind
from his disappointment at the failure of his love
affair with the Princess Victoria of Teck. He
will visit princes who have too many wives, and
may thus become reconciled to the fact that he has
none.
Vanity Fair says that Prince Eugene of
Sweden and the Princess Kalakaui of Howaii are
stated to be engaged. The Prince himself lives at
Paris, where he studies painting. The Princess
is only 15 years of age, and although she has a
dark skin, she is said to be, with regard to beauty,
a star of the first magnitude.
In George Grossmith’s “Society Clown”
we are told that at a shivoo given by Sir Arthur
Sullivan—Grossmith and Lord Hopetoun, the new
Victorian Governor, arrayed in a few anti-mac-
cassars, performed a graceful ballet, while Arthur
banged the “forty.” Baron Carington has told
us that Hopetoun does not ‘ ‘ put on side. ”
“ Pendragon,” of the Referee, says that
the Duke of Cambridge has not been much of a
belligerent since he, “in a sudden access of
courage and the Crimea, hit a dead Russian on
DIDN’T HEAD IT.
CAPTAIN BUDDLEBEAR: “ SERGEANT, WHY DON’T YOU FIRE THE ONE
O’CLOCK GUN ? ”
SERGEANT: “ AN’ SHURE AN’ HAVEN’T OI JIST DONE THAT SAME?”
CAPTAIN B.: “ I DID NOT HEAR IT ! ”
SERGEANT: “ WELL, YOU SEE OI CHARGED HER WID THE NEW NOISELESS
POWTHER —JIST TO THRY IT ! ”
the head.” If Cambridge ever did wallop the
corpse aforesaid it wasn’t until he had sent an
aide-de-camp to make sure that decomposition had
set in.
Ruskin, on being asked if he did not think
it would be better for Wales that the Welsh
language should die out, replied, God forbid !
The Welsh language is the language of music !
There is no genius about the English language.
The Scotch have got all the poetry, the Irish all
the wit, and how we got Shakespeare I don’t
know.”
“Sunday” Bailey, who is now arranging
to give the Melbourne public “all the world’s
news up to daylight on Sunday for twopence,” has
received a decoration for his services in the war
for Italian unity in 1860. It will take more than
that to frighten off the local Calvinists when once
Bailey’s newsboys begin to howl at the ungodly on
their way to kurrk.
Mr. Wharton, the retiring Attorney-
General for Western Australia, who has been
fighting the authorities over his pension, is chiefly
famous as the man who adapted the earlier Par-
nellian obstructive tactics for Tory use. He is
gifted with a voice like saw-sharpening, can talk
bosh against any man alive, and is the champion
Parliamentary “bill-blocker.”
Willis, M.P. (Bourke, N.S.W.), always
carries Shakespeare with him. While travelling
through his immense constituency, should he
meet an elector he will stop Ins buggy and read
half-a-dozen pages of the “divine William” to
him. Mr. Willis is going to boom as a dramatist,
having put the finishing touches on the “ Over-
seer, ” a back-block bushranger tragedy.
Sydney Burdekin’s fame has reached South
Africa. A paper there says he is the richest man
in Australia, and has made four millions “at
pawnbroking ! ” A nice thing to say of a man
who helps his friends liberally and never takes
over seven per cent, for his money. A big rush
of South African Jews may confidently be ex-
pected when the Transvaal mines “ peter out.”
Larry Jerome, uncle of Lady Randolph
Churchill, was leaving a Saratoga hotel when the
proprietor asked him to write a sentiment, with
his autograph, in the register. Jerome thought
for a moment, and then wrote: “I came to this
hotel for change and rest. The waiters got the
change, and the landlord got the rest.” This
pleasantry was first recorded concerning the visit
of Jonah to the Nineveh Arms.
“Paddy” Real, the Brisbane barrister
who divides honors, or at least emoluments, with
Griffith, writes a hand that would task the talents
of the late lamented Mr. Pigott to decipher, not
to say imitate. He is a tongue-tickler, not a pen-
wiper, is Pat- intellectually a strong man, and
standing six-foot-two in his uppers, and corres-
pondingly high in solicitors' cheque-books. Five
thousand a year is about his professional income.
During the melon season in Persia, a few
years ago, a soldier picked a melon and devoured
it without paying the stipulated price. The pea-
sant went to complain to Massoud Mirssa, the
Shah’s oldest son, whose ear is always open to the
lowest. After listening to his plaint he said :
“ Well, you shall have justice. I will test this
matter to the core. Bring in the soldier. ” The
gormandising soldier was brought in. “ Cut this
man open, ” he said to the executioner ; “if there
is a melon inside, ” he added to the peasant,
“ you will get your money; if not, off goes your
head.” The soldier was cut open, the melon
found, and the peasant paid.
“ How do the royal family manage to dis-
tinguish between their Victorias? There is a
Victoria in every family of the second generation.
Victoria of Prussia, Victoria of Wales, Victoria of
Edinburgh, Victoria of Hesse, Victoria of Schles-
wig-Holstein, Victoria of Connaught, Victoria of
Battenberg, as well as Victoria of Teck. There is
no Victoria of Albany, the sole exception.” There’s
no difficulty ; the old dame is Mammy ; the rest
are Victoria. Vicky, V ic., V ixen, V ixy, Conny
Vick, Batten Vie, and Victrix.
The Shah is a poet. Having completed a
copy of verses he submitted them to one of the
men of letters attached to his Court. “ What do
you think of them ?” he asked. “ They are utter
nonsense,” was the reply. “You must he an ass
to say so,” returned the monarch ; and there was
a certain truth in these words, inasmuch as the
critic was forthwith ordered to the stables, there
to be flogged. A few days afterwards the Shah
had written another poem, and once more wished
for the opinion of the learned scribe. He had
read but a few lines when the critic turned on his
heel and was about to leave the room. “ Where
are you going ? ” cried the Shah. “Back to the
stables ! ” was the immediate answer. But the
King of Kings was now in a rational mood, and
did not order his censor to be flogged a second
time.
POLITICAL POINTS
Frederick Douglas, the great mulatto
orator and ex-slave, has been sent as U.S. Minister
to Hayti.
Griffith and Morehead will fight shoulder
to shoulder against Knntsford in defence of the
Australian Monroe doctrine.
In France a man may will away his title
to anyone he may choose to “ adopt,” just as lie
can a ring or a sum of money.
In consequence of the uncompromising
opposition of Premier Parkes, the N.S.W. Govern-
ment have practically abandoned their scheme for
taking a portion of Hyde Park for a railway-
station.
Kinnaird Rose and C. H. Buzacott enter-
tained Dillon, M.P., at luncheon in Brisbane the
other day. From which we infer that the Courier
has become a hardened Home Ruler. Poor little
Redmond ! how it slated him.
The “Representation Bill,” which enr
bodies the “ One Man One Vote ” principle, has
successfully passed the Upper Chamber in the
N.Z. Legislature. The Bulletin congratulates
Sir George Grey on his triumph.
Thus the Pall Mall Gazette on the West
Australian Responsible Government Question :
Two blacks do not make a white and because we fooled
away our patrimony in Queensland that is no reason why
we should fool away our patrimony in Western Australia
Our patrimony ! Splendid !
Yolney's “ Ruins of Empires ” was seized
by the Victorian Customs, presumably on the
ground that the Queen might think it had a very
indecent title. That loyal .1. B. Patterson felt
reluctantly compelled to give this work up to the
consignee doesn't alter the significant fact of its
arrest on suspicion.
During the debate in the N.S.W. Assembly
on Mr. Brown’s adjournment motion, Mr. Mel-
ville playfully referred to Mr. Minister Carruthers
as “ the champion log-roller of the House.ln a
second the Public Instruction boss rose and thun-
dered out: “The man who said so is the champion
liar of the colony.” And then the House fairly
shrieked as Mr. Toohey explained : “ Why, it was
your own Premier who said it."
N.S.W. Postmaster-General O’Connor says
he wasn’t aware that trade-circulars are daily sent
through, free of postage, as newspapers. Secre-
tary Lambt n, then, couldn’t have whispered into
his little ear about a certain X.B.W. Minister
who printed 100,000 trade-circulars, called them,
say, “The Sugar Gazette,” procured “lashins”
of advertising, and got his little rag mailed free
all over Australia as a newspaper.
Young Maxwell, the brightest man at
Trinity College, Melbourne, astounded a brilliant
and intellectual assemblage at the local Athenaeum
the other night by insisting in his heterodox
lecture that Australia must become a Republic.
Wherefore the Argus has given up that young
man unto Sathan. Maxwell will be a valuable
recruit to the Radicals. He is a Presbyterian
parson’s son, which aggravates the grievance.
Judgment for the amount of £13,200 in
penalties has been given.against Dr. Le Fevre for
sitting and voting in the Victorian Legislative
Council when he had not the freehold property
qualifications necessary to legalise his election for
the province. On the same grounds somebody is
sneing J. S. Butters for a million or sp, but, as
nobody appears to attach much importance to
these proceedings, the assumption is that they
were taken in a friendly spirit and have no real
money in them. All the same, it would be very
soothing to make a fortune in one pop out of J. S.
Butters.
Parkes said he had “ nothing to do ” with
the enactment of the N.S.W. Treason Felony Bill.
“ He did not speak in favour of it.” But he admits
he was a member of the Government which enacted
it. He is therefore particeps criminis. Silence
gives consent. He is also particeps criminis in the
Criminal Code which makes twenty-two offences
punishable by death in N.S. Wales. Parkes’ way
of evading responsibility in these awkward matters
is on all-fours with his attending big Orange cele-
brations and saying : “ Although not an Orange-
man, I have ranch pleasure in addressing you, my
friends.”
The other day “Edward Fitzgerald’s
Letters ” were published in London, and in this
book the following passage occurs :
Mrs. Browning’s Death is rather a relief to me, I must
say :no more Aurora Leighs, thank God ! A woman of
real genius, I know; hut what is the upshot of it all '1
She and her sex had better mind the kitchen, &c.
Poet Browning gives his views on the above in the
Athen.eum thus; —
TO EDWARD FITZGERALD.
I chanced upon a new book yesterday;
I opened it, and, where my linger lay
’Twixt page and uncut page, these words I read—
Some six or seven at most—and learned thereby
That you, Fitzgerald, whom by ear and eye
She never knew, “ thanked God my wife was dead.”
Ay, dead ! and were yourself alive, good Fitz.,
How to return you thanks would task my wits :
Kicking you seems the common lot of curs—
While more appropriate greeting lends you grace:
Surely to spit there glorifies your face—
Spitting—from lips once sanctified by hers.


*5?
S f
i ll ,
IlffMi
T WO Disting-uisliea Arrivals in Sydney.
EVANGELIST VARLEY: “AND ALLOW ME TO INTRODUCE A PERSONAL FRIEND. YOU SEE HE IS QUITE AS BLACK AS HE HAS BEEN PAINTED."


The Sydney Freetrade Holiness Meeting.
REV.DR. GARRAN (log.): “ WE WILL NOW CLOSE BY SINGING THAT WELL-KNOWN FREETRADE HYMN, ‘O LORD. ON WHAT A SLENDER THREAD THIS
FREETRADE BODY HANGS!'”
ţ


“HOG’S HEAD” BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
P. B. WHEELER & CO.,
265 Clarence Street,
S Y ID 3ST IE Y.
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT Ss DISCOUNT BANE,
90-KING STREET —9O
Established ISBS.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years
12 Months
G Months
3 Months
5 per cent, allowed
9J per cent.
B| per cent.
... ... per cent.
on daily balance of current account.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors. _
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
W. H.
PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
365 Greorge Street, SYDNEY,
H
AVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of UXTcw Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uehel, Fenrich, Lipp, Eonisch, Bluthner, Collard, and
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at and Estey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or leRMS.
Society
A young Australian, who lately inherited
£130,000 on the death of his father, not satisfied
with six per cent. (£9OOO per annum) for his
money, and evidently craving for £90,000 a year
out of it, has gone into the shent per shent busi-
ness, and is helping to set up pawnshops all over
one of our biggest cities. What a colossal fortune
he’ll build up with such a start! It augurs well
for the future of Australia to see the young men
of the land so business-like. How pleased the old
man will be when he looks down from Abraham’s
bosom and sees his greedy son earning the undying
curses of the poor !
* * #
A meeting of Americans was held at
Phair’s Hotel, Melbourne, last week, to locally
establish an American Club. The Yankee Consul
presided, and the company assembled numbered
a Highlander from Gippsland, a Limerick
man with a brogue, two melancholy-looking re-
l>orters and a gentleman from North Carolina.
The only business transacted was a bottle of
whisky, “shouted ” by the Irishman, and the pro-
ceedings terminated with a vote of thanks to the
chairman.
The other day the
S.M. Herald libelled a
civil servant and the
angry official demanded
an apology. The paper at
once offered an apology,
but insisted that it should
be inserted in the least-
read portion of the print.
“Oh! very well,” said
the civil servant, “you
may stick it in as a
leader.”
* * *
An ex-Mayoress of a
great Australian city has
a romantic history. She
was deserted by her hus-
band a week after her
honeymoon, and for 17
years never heawl tidings
of him. During this
period she was a gover-
ness on a back N.S.W.
station. The squatter’s
son induced her to show
him the photo, of her
husband. He imme-
diately recognised the
man. Proceedings in
divorce were instituted
and a decree granted.
Some time afterwards a
city magnate visited the
station, fell in love with
the governess, and mar-
ried her.
# * *
A Manly milkman,
lately much exercised in
his mind by the narrow-
ing of his clientele, has
discovered that the occur-
rence is not due to the
success of a professional
rival, but to the competi-
tion of some “ toney ”
iustomer-i who have lately
acquired cows. The
milkman, a shrewd fellow,
reasoned thusly ; —I have
to take out a milk-
licence, am subject to
inspection,. compelled to
affix a notice over my
door stating that “Full
Quartz ” is licensed, &c.,
while Mrs. De Dobroyd
Point is exempt from inspection, pays no license-
fee, and hangs out no shingle. The competition is
unfair and illegal. Thus stating the case to the
local inspector, that worthy has commenced to
interview these lofty milk-pedlars who are thus
openly defying the law, and the Pedlingtonian
milk-pool of Manly Society is churned by the
dasher of officialism till the bilious curds of aris-
tocratic indignation threaten to seriously impede
“Chalky’s ” milky-whey. The law says thatnotonly
people who sell milk, but also those Who “ supply
milk, are bound to take out licenses and have
“Licensed Milk-Vendor ” written over the door of
their places of business. Now, therefore, either the
cow must go, or Mrs. De Dobroyd Point must
submit to the official sign-writer inscribing the
odious words over the front door of Grosvenor
House, Manly Beach.
* * *
There has been a breach-of-promise case at
Bathurst (N.S.W.). Clara Richards, dressmaker,
was plaintiff, and Barff Tucker, a warder in the
local gaol, defendant. Clara, we regret to notice,
was knocked out in one round. This is how Mr.
Barff Tucker used to write to his darling from
Carlo’s Gap (it is well to know how the N.S.W.
aborigines make love): —
I had a little fun last night and early this morning, for I
was at a party over on the Mudgee Road, that is three
miles and a-half from here. There was a good crowd
there, and of course I was the head chucker-out; for lam
a bit of a masher up this part, and they always put me the
head of the party, for you know the bungerlies, they can-
not go through the dances, for they are too thickheaded,
and you have to call out every time to them. The girls
are the softest lot of bungerlubies that I have come across
for a long time. Mr. Tucker, will you have a bun ? You
would laugh at them if you saw the stile they come out in,
and some of the chaps with their pants up to their knees
and bluchers boots on, and it was all a ra-ta-to in the
dances, and you had to look after your toes. . . . The
girls here have your name as large as life, and always get-
ting a knock. This girl says she knows you. Her name is
, and not a bad-looking judy, and I would like to
do a collar with her, but it is no go, for they all know that
I have got a girl in Bathurst, and that has put a stop to
my little games. . . . And now I think this is all I
have got to say this time, and now I will say or bid this
good night, for I must turn in my little bunk and think of
the days to come. Ever believe me yours,
What different brands of romance one meets in the
course of a life-time !
* * *
David Blair, the literary grubster par
excellence, proves conclusively in Melbourne that
the Duke of Fife, on the mother’s side, is descended
from Dora Jordan, mistress of William IV. She
was an actress and bore the noble William nine
children, all of whom were well provided for, but
she herself died in misery and poverty in France.
However, Time brings its revenges, and her pos-
terity are linked on to Royalty. Mrs. Jorclan was
a grass-widow when William took up with her.
She was the most popular actress on the London
stage, at Drury Lane Theatre, especially in parts
like Sir Harry Wildair in the “Constant Couple,”
Peggy in the “Country Girl,” and Nell in the
“Devil to Pay.” Her heart was broken when
William shuffled her off, the reason being one
A BEAR STORY—MOSTLY PICTURES.
1.-New chum “kills” a bear. Hangs it on saddle. 2.—Jogging along so merrily. 3.—Bear wakes up a-bit. 4.—So does
horse. 5.—“ Goes to market. 6.—When will they three meet again ?
of State, so that he might marry Princess
Adelaide and have some progeny. He didn’t.
The Duke of Kent, his brother, married a German
widow, and begat Queen Victoria. William liked
Dora Jordan, and did not care a dump for
Adelaide. He consoled himself with the reflec-
tion that he only imitated Bonaparte in casting
off Josephine for Marie Louise. Mrs. Jordan’s
proper husband was a man named Ford, but, of
course, that is nothing where a prince is concerned.
Ford might be as jealous as his namesake in the
“Merry Wives of Windsor,” but it would be no
good when a Royal Highness turns up. Charles
11.. dying, called out, “ Don’t let Nell Gwynne
starve.” William IV. doesn’t seem to have been
so merciful in regard to the obedient spaniel of his
pleasures, who, of course, was passee when he oast
her off.
# # #
Another insult to the back-blocks ! A
piano is advertised in a Sydney paper -“ wonder-
ful powerful tone, exceedingly durabl ■, rare piano
for school, never out of order, suit back-blocks or
board ship.” *
# # #
“An Englishman ” writes to a Melbourne
paper, more in sorrow than in anger, to direct
attention to the fact that many persons fail to
raise their hats when a funeral is passing through
the streets of that city. We think this imported
person might easily find something of greater im-
portance to growl about. There’s little credit in
lifting the glossy “nail-keg” to the cold clay of
the deceased toiler and moiler whom we have met
at church every Sunday for twenty years without
a friendly nod or a fraternal wink —it is the
moiler’s turn to pass frigidly by on the other
side now, and perhaps he appreciates the
novelty of the thing; certainly it must afford
him as much gratification as the reveren-
tially elevated “cady ” of the man who cut him
because of, the patches on his trousers all the
days of his life—or the fellow who persisted in
owing him 30s. when his wife wanted medicines
and his children cried for hash. If we reverse
the order of procedure, and have the late
Mrs. Fitzmaurice Tallowfat jinkered to her final
abiding place with all the pomp and panoply of
wealthy woe, it doesn’t seem as if thatwristqcratic
female, with her high-arched nose arid her "super-
cilious sniff, would care to have Brotv;n, the
butcher’s man, and Jones, the fish-hawker, and
Green, the mud-puncher, saluting even her mortal
remains. People might think she knew them, you
know ; and, besides, she never cared to recognise
any person to whom she had not been well and
truly introduced, according to the canons of the
best “ sassiety.” On the whole, men will do well
not to lift their hats to “ God Save the Queen ” or
any other funeral that’s not their own.
*' # *
A couple of Saturdays back there was a
knot-tying competition at Williamstown, Mel-
bourne. No parsons competed, so the cake went
to a sailor.
* * *
A Melbourne paper says : —“ The fashion-
able wide trousers have reached from England to
the colonies.” Thunder! they must be wide.
• # *
The office of a Melbourne Gas Company
was robbed by burglars the other night. That’s
the only way to get even with a gas company.
# # #
The leading characteristic of the suicide is
lack of originality; for ages men have gone on
shuffling off this mortal coil according to prece-
dent, rarely thinking of lending pleasant variety to
an operation so susceptible to diversification. A
Melbourne baker, probably hoping to initiate a
taste for novelty, snuffed himself put in a unique
manner the other day. He inserted his head into
a kerosene-tin, pulled on a flour-sack over that,
then calmly spread himself in the dough-trough,
inserted a rubber gas-pipe into the tin, and wa„
quietly suffocated. There is a refreshing novelty
about this process which cannot fail to commend
it to pers :ns contemplating a change of existence.
Deceased’s final admonition to his son was, “ Don’t
forget the yeast.” He probably wanted some
buried with him so as to assure his rising.
* * #
When about nine of the clock a.m. you
meet a number of suspicious-looking parties in the
streets of an Australasian town carrying glazed
black bags, you must not take them for belated
bagmen ; neither are they professional burglars.
It is only the sleek civil servant, ostensibly bear-
ing the vehicle of a frugal lunch, but the medium
also of floral offerings for barmaids, as well as the
repository of office stationery and other uncon-
sidered trifles of departmental life.
# # *
“ Dear Mary,” advertises an N.Z. trades-
man, “ come to your affectionate butcher. Don’t
forget the kit.”
# * #
The authorities of Christ Church, Sydney,
have made a new departure. They have let a por-
tion of their parsonage land in Pitt-street to an
Italian fruit-seller, who has erected a fruit-shop
thereon and does a splendid business on Sunday.
Perhaps the authorities don’t think it a crime for
a honest man to buy fruit on Sunday ! If so, the
world moves.
* * *
At the Mayor of Adelaide’s ball, Lord
Kintore wore a kilt. The assembled ladies agreed
that his lordship’s celebrated legs_ were “ perfect
loves,” and those silken bonds which bind us, &c.,
tightened visibly during the progress of_ the first
vice-regal quadrille. One gushing maiden said
she would give five years of her life to see Kintore
waltz.
# # *
Some Philistine at Parramatta, N.S.W.,
proposed to lay unholy hands on the threepenny -
bit of religion by devoting one Sunday’s collec
tions in the year to the benefit of the hospital.
The parsons of Parramatta, however, have proved
equal to the occasion.' Forty of them were in-
vited to a meeting to discuss the matter, but
thirty-nine of them, in the interests of true re-
ligion, and to maintain the integrity of the sacred
coin aforesaid, firmly but respectfully stayed away.
# * *
Buskin’s latest idea is that military bands
are'degraded by playing at dinners and dances.
Ruskin is right. On the same principle the
decorated soldier is degraded by dropping his
sword and taking a switch to “shoo” dogs away for
Sydney drapers,
* * *
Labouchere’s paper says it is legitimate for
men to wear corsets for the purpose of reducing
corpulence.
# # *
One of Mrs. Battenberg’s dogs died the
other day, and by royal command a penny, a half-
penny and a farthing of this year of grace were
placed in the coffin. Unless liver’s cheap south
of the Styx the penny-three-farthings won’t do
poor Tyke much good.
Little Harry; (in orchestra chair pointing
up at a private-box where a lady sits in a sleeve-
less dress so low in the neck that none of it is
visible above the box railing) : “ Just look, papa.”
Papa: “ Quiet, my son; you annoy the people.”
Little Harry : “ Oh, but see the lady in the pretty
bath-tub iip there !”• —Ex.
Dr. Henry, of Mel-
bourne, told an audience
the other day that there
were seventeen different
tribes of microbes located
in the human mouth, by
means of which kissing
often commmii c a t e d
disease. .So you see, in
spite of his protestations,
the parson is a dangerous
man in society.
# *- #
The wife of a clergy
mm has just obtained
a divorce from her hus-
band, one of the items of
c’uelty being that he
pulled the bedclothes off
her o’ nights. There is
nothing more likely to
curse-a coolness between
man and wife than this
sort of thing.
* # *
There is a woman
up in Queensland who
catches snakes with her
bare hands. What a wife
sire would make fpr a man
with the jim-jams !
% =& #
A Northern N.S.W.
medico, while doing his
professional rounds the
other day, fell into the
hands of crimps, and, on
recovering consciousness,
found himself on his way
to China, shipped as an
ordinary seaman. The
Newcastle crimp freely
threatens to “shanghai”
every parson and half
the aldermen in town, and
declares that, granted
sufficient inducement, he
will remove Mr. (f regson,
the A. A. Co.’s manager,
to another sphere of use-
fulness.
At a recent N.S.W.
Agricultural Show a prize
was given for the best
plum-pudding. There
were many eptries ; but, owing to the sudden ill-
ness of the sampling judges, the award was be-
stowed not according to flavour, but to the girls’
looks. The committee, a business-like crowd,
afterwards inserted spindles in the puddings and
retailed them for grindstones.
* * *
Lord Dunlo, who married Belle Bilton, of
the ballet, will be in Australia in a. day or two.
An English paper says Dunlo brings his tutor
with him! Will the tutor be anything like
Brough in “Betsy ? ”
# * *
“ My dear Julia,” said one of the fas-
cinating creatures, “how beautiful your com-
plexion is -in this dim light!” “ Oh, thank you,”
responded her rival; ‘ ‘ and how lovely you look in
the dark !”
To him most piteously said she —
They sat the drawing-room within :
“ I wish you’d eit her let me be,
Or come here with a smoother chin. ’*


SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
F, W. JONSON, Pitman's Certificated Teacher.
Shorthand taught in 26 Half-hour Private Lessons —Fee,
425. Reporting Style or Finishing Lessons successfully
given hy post—Course of 13 lessons, 215., or 2s. per lesson.
Fees in Advance.
t
scorn
BjgQLSiSN
CORES
CONSUMPTION
SCROFULA
BRONCHITIS
COUCHS
COLDS
Wasting Diseases
Wonderful Flesh Producer.
Many have gained one pound
per day by its use.
Scott’s Emulsion is not a secret
remedy. It contains the stimulat-
ing properties of the Hypophos-
phites and pure Norwegian Cod
Liver Oil, the potency of both
being largely increased. It is used
by Physicians all over the world,
>ALATABLE AS §¥IILIC.
Sold hy all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWP'E, New York.
BERT SON’S A\ r HI SKY.
*2OO FXUZBS.
GIVEN AAV AY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
16 of &5 each, 25 &2, and 70 £i t
Pamphlets from the Agents, ALLT Sz CO., Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
Mr. David Christie Murray has lectured at
Melbourne Town Hall with sufficient success to
justify him in being there, and without enough re-
sults to encourage, him in doing it again for the
next century. He has lots of heavily entertaining
things to say and he lets them off with due
solemnity. As a speaker, Air. Murray reminds
one of the sexton ringing the village bell when the
evening sun is low or the sad sea waves delivering
a sermon. He is an earnest, prematurely-old man
cast somewhat in the Wilkie Collins’ mould. But
for his experiences in the army and as a war-cor-
respondent, he plight have been a modest Repub-
lican with a nice taste in dynamite. As it is,
Christie Murray worships the memory of John
Bright, and has reluctantly fallen away from Glad-
stone since he took up with Home Rule. This is
particularly harrowing to both parties. The
dramatic force of many passages in Mr. Murray’s
novels is apparent in his best platform bits, and he
shows a good turn for mimicry. Yet his own
innate sense of humour is no keener than a flat-
iron. He cannot knock one joke out of his stone-
broke experiences, when he slept on the Thames
Embankment and victualled free at drinking-
fountains. He merely thanks Heaven that he can
now put himself outside a pound of steak when-
ever the spirit moves him. This notice concludes
right here with the Doxology.
# * *
Christie Murray told a really funny story
in the course of his first lecture in Mel bourne. It
was an unpremeditated joke, and he never saw it
himself. The audience, being mostly Scottish, ye
ken, only laid hold of it in rare instances, yet the
-jest stuck out far enough, and a moral dangled
from its extremest point. Christie Murray had,
as he explained, just left the gorgeous mahogany
dinner-table of Speaker Davies. Duncan Gillies,
Macßain, and other colossal intellects were of the
party. “Mr. Gillies asked me,” said the lecturer,
“my opinion of Mr. Gladstone, and fromthegeneral
tone prevailing at the table I gathered that Glad-
stone was regarded in Australia as an extinct
volcano.'" What a many-sided bit of humour !
Davies, Gillies, and Macßain, smiling in pity
when they spoke of the Grand Old Man, while
the sober-going Mr. Murray accepted their Tory
cackle as an expression of public opinion. Put
not your trust in “ repi’esentative men,” Mr.
Murray, or you will soon come to the conclusion
that Australia is a land flowing with ignorance and
grovel.
* * *
At a recent “ toney ” ball in an Australian
city, a warrior, lately raised to a captaincy, filled
much space with his “pomposity.” As he posed
gracefully, “the cynosure of neighbouring eyes,”
an old friend approached him from the rear, and,
slapping him vigorously on the back said : “Hello,
Bombardos! how are you ?” A marked pause
followed the query, and the silence was broken by
the ejaculation from the military man’s much-
bedizened “missuss” of : “ Captain Bombardos,
if you please !”
# * *
Hay (N.S. W.) lias just been sadly taken
down by a dark - complexioned Melbourne
spieler, who burst upon the Hay-seeds at the time
of the visit of Governor Carington, and passed
himself off as an American newspaper-correspon-
dent. The Baron, it appears, thought he belonged
to Sir W. J. Clarke’s party, and Bart. Clarke
thought he belonged to the Baron, and so between
this dual misunderstanding the impostor was
franked to all the feeds and other festivities—
and on the morning after the last day of the jun-
ketings, when Hay sat down to reckon up the
damage, it found that, so far as the Yankee jour-
nalist was concerned, it was very much in the soup.
For had he not changed cheques with nearly
every solid man in the place !
# # *
Kided on the tramline, at the corner of
King and Elizabeth streets, Sydney, Thomas
Harpin, bank-clerk. He was 2(5 years of age, Oft.
3in. in height, and a fine, steady young man—
There was a scandalous circumstance over
the will of Chief Justice Stawell, in Melbourne.
The saying is that law-makers oughtn’t to be law-
breakers. " Stawell’s people had the impudence to
visit the Master in Equity, to pay duty on
an estate of £14,000. “ Oh, come,” says the
patriotic Master, “ this is all humbug, you know.
Judge Stawell sold his Kew Estate for £30,000 in
the time of the land boom.” Then it transpired
that, to save duty, Stawell had, two months before
his death, made over £30,000 and more to a brother
Judge and others. The Master in Equity made
them pay duty on an estate of £48,000 —more
like it.
* * *
A female Salvation Army captain at
Numurkah recently paralysed her hearers
with the statement that “her grandfather had
fought and bled for his country at Waterloo,
and heard Napoleon give the celebrated order to
his troops, viz., “ England expects every man this
day to do his duty.”
* * »
There is no man feels so awkward as the
city member, who represents a country consti-
tuency, on a visit to his electorate. He finds it
impossible to remember one-tenth of his supporters,
and is in blissful ignorance as to who or what they
are. He knows well, however, that he must deal
with them all with the utmost familiarity, other-
wise he will jeopardise his chances of re-election.
A smart member of theN.S.W. Assembly recently
found himself struggling through a series of diffi-
culties. An elector rushed up to him and con-
gratulated him on his success. “Ah,” said the
legislator, “you’re very kind. How are you
getting along with that fai m of your’s ?” The man
with the vote assured him that he never had a
farm in his life. “Oh, no!” cried the M.P., “I
was thinking of your brother.” And again he
was assured that he had no brother, that he was
the only son of his father. “Then, how are your
wife and family?” “Wife and family! Great
Parkes ! I’m a single man.” “But your name is
“ A BAD EXILE,” &c.
TOM: “I SAY, DICK, THAT CHAP’S AN ACTOR, I THINK.”
DICK: “WHAT MAKES YOU THINK SO?”
TOM: “WELL, HE’S CLEAN-SHAVED FOR ONE THING.
DICK: “WELL, I THINK HE IS JUST OUT OF GAOL.”
TOM: “WHAT MAKES YOU THINK SO?”
DICK: “WELL, HE’S CLEAN-SHAVED FOR ONE THING.”
Smith,” cried the politician, in anguish. “ Welh
I’m d d, you’re a beauty ! Why, I’m Jones>
the bellman.” And he left, leaving the legislator
to encounter another mystery.
* * *
The Melbourne police is in a disgraceful
state. Never were robberies so frequent. . The
whole community writhes. Chief Commissioner
Chomley is too easy-going. He likes best a chat
with Inspector Beckwith over the cavalry re-
mounts for the troopers. He hasn’t the force in
hand as well as Standish had. but then Standish
went and bungled over the Kellys where Chomley
might have been at home. People say they might
as well have kept sleepy Chief Commissioner
Nicholson, now a magistrate, like ex-Superin -
tendent Hare, who lost a finger over the Kelly
job at Glenrowan. Melbourne will require a
police force like that of New York, but there they
pay a policeman £4 a week. The force is altogether
behind the times. The detectives are farcical.
Everybody knows them as they swank about.
But then they are completely humbugged looking
after runaway husbands, and the police are kept
watching Sunday publicans, a business they detest,
knowing that the law is the rankest nonsense and
can never be enforced.
* * *
A recent Wellington (N.Z.) divorce-case
had some curious features about it which did not
all come out in evidence. The wife of a young
farmer sued for divorce from her husband, who had
left her and gone astray with the governess.
Before marriage the young man was a cadet on a
station where the petitioner was general servant.
They got married and took a farm. The young
farmer was well educated, the wife’s education
had been sadly neglected, and so it was arranged
that a companion and governess should be pro-
cured. This was done. A clever girl, the daugh-
ter of a country dominie, got the situation, and
began to sow the seeds of knowledge and refine-
ment in the mind of her mistress. It was a tough
job. The young farmer realised how tough it was
and he sympathised with the governess in her
exertions. The governess also sympathised
with him. They sympathised a good deal, in
fact, and the long and the short of it was that they
eloped to Sydney. He did not treat his deserted
wife so badly, however, as some men do in similar
cases, for he sent her a substantial sum out of the
money realised by the sale of his land. He must
have reached Sydney when the silver-boom or
some other good thing was on, for he appears to
have made money very fast, and about a year ago
he remitted to his late wife a bank-draft for £l5OO
and a guarantee for the payment of all legal costs
in the divorce proceedings, which he advised her
to take to release them both from their matri-
monial bonds. Many a woman would have thought
twice before relaxing the legal tie that bound her
to such a good financier, but the lady in question,
probably thinking it better to obey her husband to
the end, instituted the proceedings, and, as the
facts were clearly established, the usual rule nisi
was granted.
* * *.
A Northern bank-manager got lost or
stolen for the third time the other day. On his
recovery the townsfolk presented his wife with a
bell for his neck and a pair of hobbles for his
ankles, so that in future she will find no trouble
in rounding him up after dusk.
* * *
The Melbourne branch of the A.N.A. has
been discussing the advisability of admitting
women as members of the Association. This would
be an absurd innovation ; the chief end and aim
of the A.N.A. is the cultivation and propagation
of “jaw,” and woman needs no lessons in that
direction. P.S. —We are fully aware of the brutal
vulgarity of this paragraph.
# * #
Apropos of the kissing case at Parramatta,
we submit the following American ruling for the
guidance of the Bench :
Judge Ridley recently had before him a young man
charged with the heinous crime of kissing a young woman
against her will. As to what constitutes “ consent ”in a
case of this kind the bachelor judge delivered the follow-
ing able and exhaustive opinion :—“ If a man kiss a woman
without her consent, expressed or implied, he would be
guilty of a battery. By expressed consent I mean a de-
clared willingness to be kissed, and by implied consent I
mean such conduct on her part as would lead a man with
whom she was coquetting to suppose that she wished to
be kissed and then and there desired him to comply with
her wishes.”
# * *
Recently a foolish fellow became a moist,
unpleasant body somewhere in the Castlemaine
(Vic.) district. He was on the very verge of his
joyful nuptia’s whe t he sought refuge in a reser-
voir. Rumour stated that he had a wife in Eng-
land already, and very likely rumour was correct.
He certainly had a girl in Australia, all ready.
So he turned his back upon the sea of matrimony
and plunged into the calm, cool waters of that
reservoir.
Rev. Dr. Dale, of Birmingham, in his new
published bopk of “ Australian Impressions,” has
an enthusiastic chapter on Australian wines, des-
cribing a good deal of his tasting. This bibbing,
even on his own admission, must have been exten-
sive. He regrets that he has not had opportunities
to corroborate Fronde about the virtues of de Cas-
tella’s Sauvignon, of St. Hubert’s, Lilydale. The
reverend doctor would have been glad to do so if
he could. However, he expatiates glowingly on
the Reisling and other wines of his friend Hardy
and others at Adelaide. On the Sydney side he
found the Dalwood wine splendid. "Thanks.
Clink glasses, Doctor. Dale ought to go over to
Paris and sample the wines at the Exhibition.
But he has gone, of course. We were thinking he
was a struggling journalist, or something of that
kind, and hot one of those big, fat, jolly parsons.
Dale used to go to tea-meetings in Australia. He
would smack his chops over the tea and gammon
he liked it. All the time he was thinking of the
flavour and aroma of the Reisling and the Dal'
wood.—
Can it be true, as stated by O’Sullivan,
M.P., on the authority of the evidence of a senior -
sergeant of police, that a rich Sydney newspaper-
proprietor owns, or has owned, Chinese gambling-
dens?
High Art Photography. —For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONT
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington “By Appointment.”
His name was Thomas Harpin and six foot three
his height,
His age was six-and-twenty and his character was
white,
Although a dashing bank-clerk, he didn’t put on
“jam”—
He was murdered, more’s the pity ! by a wretched
Sydney tram.
There are ancient rogues we wot of whom the
tram can never kill—
We’ve prayed that it may smash ’em, but we don't
believe it will;
An honest giant’s taken, while the puny, thieving
sham
Is a precious sight too tricky to be murdered by a
tram.
Those dirty puffing Billies that smoke, and steam,
and snort,
Go on crushing decent bodies like the car of
J uggernaut,
Full twenty times a day or more, we solemnly do
“ D—n !”
The misdirected murders by the wretched Sydney
tram.
We weep for Thomas Harpin—he deserved a
better fate.
Well, Peter’s sure to pass him through the shining
Golden Gate,
And will give him kindly greeting when the
stranger says ; “I am
That fine young fellow murdered by a wretched
Sydney tram.”
FROM FANNY, IN ENGLAND, TO HER COUSIN LUCY,
IN ROCKHAMPTON (Q.)
(Being' the substance of genuine letter which an ap-
prentice .Bulletin poet has cut down for reasons of space
and portability.) :—
Dear Lucy, you ask me, with mother's consent,
To leave the old home 'neath the hop-vines of Kent,
And fly to your sunny and cheeky Australia,
Where “life is worth living” and “marriage no
failure ”
(Excuse Cockney rhymes); well, it does seem to me
That your ways, like your sunshine and air, are
too free ;
Where the maid is as good as the mistress she
serves,
And a woman’s too busy to bother with “nerves
Where your daughters are wives when they should
be at school,
And a swell who can't work goes up top for a fool;
Where a woman can pick out a “ hub ” for herself,
Independent of colour, diseases, or pelf ;
Where your sky is too blue and your sun is too hot,
Where you eat when you’re hungry and drink
when you’re not; /
Where you think for yourselves and speak out
what you mean,
Where you laugh at a lord and make fun of a
Queen ;
Where the parsons are poor as the sermons they
preach ;
And a snake in the grass is no figure of speech ; *
Where sweetness and culture, blue blood and
“ hen g tony ”
Ooze out through the pores of the skin before
long;
But, no, Lucy, I cannot quit England, my dear,
Though the place seems to grow worse and worse
every year;
Yet our poor know their places—to slave for the
rich,
And to starve when they’re hungry and die in a
ditch ;
And a lord is a lord, be he ever so mean,
Audit does one’s heart good to huzza for the
Queen;
Though these Irishmen fume and those Radicals
fight,
All work for the triumph of sweetness and light.
As a lady I’ve lived, as a lady I’ll die,
A true female tuft-hunting Britisher, I—•
So, dear Lucy, in far-off Australia, good-bye.
Dr. Dale goes through this vale
Of tears.
Travelling by P. and O. mail
He beers ;
Where the sun of Bathurst shines
He wines.
Reisling, Dalwood, and the rest
Are best.
Hyson, Souchong, and tea-meeting prog.
Ain’t grog.
Wo bamboozle with the cup that’s brimming,
The old women.
Then go and write in books what's good,
Dalwood. ('Nr B'd’l W’t’r —hie !)


It is said that Miss Fortescue, the actress
who got £lO,OOO damages from Lord Cairns for a
breach,! of promise, has just screwed £3OOO (on
similar grounds) out of Mr. Laurence Henry St.
Paul Moore. It is evident, therefore, that the
breaching of Miss Fortescue’s affections, the tramp-
ling on her virgin susceptibility, is a luxurious
pastime that will soon be within the reach of even
the humblest.
The Princess of Wales has never, in the
whole course of her married life, seemed to show
any preference for the conversation of one man
over another, but the Shah has unloosed her fount
of eloquence, for as she sat beside him she used to
volunteer continually long speeches, which the
interpreter found it quite a task to translate. The
joke of the season was that “ the Princess has
found her mash at last.’’
The beautiful coffin which Sarah Bern-
hardt has been carrying about with her these last
15 years should come in handy for her husband,
M. Damala, who died last week. Sarah was
terribly thin when she married Damala (in Lon-
don) and the wags alleged that she daren’t put
her loving arms round his neck, for fear of de-
capitating the happy man. But the scraggy ones
last longest in the land.
Amusements.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.15. Carriages at 10.45.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
SHAKESPEARE’S GREAT TRAGEDY,
JULIUS CiESA. R !
RIGNOLD AS “ MARC ANTONY.”
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
New opera house,
Kino and York Streets.
Lessee and Manager Mr. John Solomon.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. John Solomon’s. English and Comic Opera
Company, under the Musical Direction of
Mr H. T. HARRISON.
LAST 3 NIGHTS’. LAST 3 NIGHTS K
OF
Faust! Faust! Faust!
Produced under the personal direction of
MR. HENRY JBRACY.
POPULAR PRICES:
Dress (,' rule, 3s. ; Orchestra Stalls, 3s. ; Stalls,
2s. ; Pit, Is.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s.
Monday, September 2nd, THE BEGGAR STUDENT.
JOE DAVIS Business Manager.
(' CYYCcLL 0 o II B \ A MA A
What is it? The greatest show on earth. The most
extraordinary illusion ever presented to the public.
The perfect representation of the climax of one of
the greatest conflicts in history. It cannot he de-
scribed. It must be seen.
gg'' Opposite Red fern Railway Station
Open 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sundays, 3 p.nn. to 10 p.m.
Admission, 2s. Children, Is.
On Sunday next, to meet those who cannot afford our
ordinary charges, the Cyclorama will be open from 3 to
10 p.m. at a charge of Is.' for Adults, Children fid.
Q.AIETY THEATRE.
L. Foley .. , .... Lessee.
Matt. L. Berry Manager.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 31,
First Appearance in Sydney of the refined American
Comedienne,
Miss Katie Fatnam,
The popular young Comedian,
GEORGE C. BONIFACE, Jr.,
And Miss Putnam’s excellent Comedy Company, present-
ing Charles Dickens’ immortal work,
OLD CURIOSITY SHOP.
Prices—Orchestra Stalls.,4 s - i Stalls, 35.; Balcony, 25.;
Pit, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
PICTURES OF EASTERN LIFE.
Y.M.C.A. HALL, SYDNEY.
Enthusiastic Reception of
Miss Von Finkelstein,
On her return from the Holy City.
-FOR TWO WEEKS ONLY!—
The Famous Lecture-Entertainment
will be given with
NEW— ORIENTAL COSTUMES I
Purchased by the Gifted Native of Jerusalem during
her recent visit to Palestine.
1. Bedouins of the Desert.
2. —Homes and Haunts of Jesus.
3. Life in Jerusalem.
4. The True Life in Jacob.
5. The,Jews at Home.
ti. —Ecce Homo !
Miss Von Finkelstein, after her Sydney season, will
lecture in Maitland, commencing on 17th September.
R. S. SMYTHE.
gCH O O L OF ARTS.
—THE SYDNEY LAUGHING SEASON—
Now at its full height.
EURV EVENING at EIGHT O’CLOCK
The Greatest Living Mesmerist,
Mr. T. A. KENNEDY,
appears in his
Mystifying and Marvellous Entertainment
Approaching the Borderland of the Supernatural,
and providing, in addition,
VW~ NO END OF LAUGHTER!
Popular Prices. Box Office at Nicholson’s.
JJONDI AQUARIUM,
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d.
MR. S. F. COHEN is in no way connected
with the Sydney Bulletin Newspaper
Company, Limited.
Amusements.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, and EVERY EVENING
Until Further Notice, Grand Revival
of
Oliver Goldsmith’s Masterpiece,——
She Stoops to Conquer.
The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Mr. Robert Brough.
New Scenery, Costumes, and Accessories.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
AT THE AUSTRALIAN WAXWORKS,
55S Gboege-Stkebt, Sydney,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Ma. F K ASK M. CLARK’S
Latest Sensation,
Engaged by him during his recent tour round the
world from P. T. Barnum.
Jo-Jo,
THE RUSSIAN DOG-FACED BOY,
A Human with a Canine Head.
The Regal Ruler of Recreative Research. The
August Autocrat of Mankind’s Marvels.
JO-JO HOLDS RECEPTIONS DAILY
from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.
In conjunction with JO-JO many other Famous
Freaks and Novelties will be exhibited, including
ÜBINI’S PERFORMING FLEAS,
From the Crystal Palace, London.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
rpHEATRE ROYAL
Under thp Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Last 2 Nights of the Royal Comic Opera Company
IN
Last Tw o
Nights.
Admission—ss.
PEFITA
Last Two
Nights.
, 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
M
ETROPOLITAN SKATING
Harris Street, Ultimo.
RINK
Nearest llink to Rcdfcrn Railway Station.
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony. TE4
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a.m. Ladies and Children only: Admis-
sion FREE; Skates, 6d.
2.30 to 5 p.m.—Admission : Ladies, (kb, Skates,
(id.; Gentlemen, Is., Skates, (id.
7.30 to 10 p.m. —Admission to all, Is.; Skates, 6d.
LO O K OU T
FOB
Future Novelties.
FLOORAGE FREE.
Pvrmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
Lessee and Manager ... JOHN R. GEE.
Business Announcements.
QUONG TART & CO.,
Tea Merchants and Importers,
Beg to announce to their many friends and cus-
tomers and the general public that they have just
Opened another Branch of their business at
141—KING STREET, SYDNEY-141
(Nearly opposite the Theatre Royal),
under the name of
The LOONG SHAN TEA HOUSE,
where, in addition to their famed Loong Shan
Tea (new season’s just arrived), they intend to sell
FINEST SUGAR, BEST COFFEE,
CHOICE COCOAS, &c„
All of Best Quality and at Cheapest Rates.
Q.T. & Co. beg also to intimate that until the
completion of adjoining premises (which are to be
fitted-up with all modern improvements and con-
venience regardless of expense), customers may
procure at the New Branch the usual Cup of
delicious Tea and Light Refreshments as supplied
at their other Tea-rooms.
Shipping.
■NION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited,
SAN FRANCISCO ROYALJVIAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under:—
ţ
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge. °
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL. °
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and guide books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application.
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply to
FRED. W. JACKSON, Manager.
Offices: lo Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous.
S. FREE MAN SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDERS,
i|ricnt Square ||lue,
Extract of Soap,
l|incgar, Blacking,
&c., &c., &c.
Steam Works and Brewery :
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
Shipping.
J~JTRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Commander.
steamers
&
— K>
- ~
Victoria .. 6268 Ct. F. Cates .. Aug. 31 Sep. 6 Sep!)
Hallaarat .. 1748 E. Ashdown
Parramatta 1771 If. U. Murray
Unset ta .. 3025 G. VV. Brady
Massilia .. 1918 C. Fraser ..
Oceana .. 6362 P. S. Tomlin
Sep. 11 Sep. 20 Sep 23
Sep. 28 Oct. 4 Oct. 7
Oct: 12 Oct. 18 Oct 21
Oct. 20 Nov. 1 Nov. 1
Nov. 9 Nov. 15 Novl8
And henceforth every alternate week,
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A, MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Compajnv’s Office, 15 Macquarie-plaoe.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
JJORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable): —
ť
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR SALE. A Quantity of Second-hand
NEWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
and bulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer, Bulletin Office.
Furniture, &c.
JTEWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPi 10LSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPUING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
1 ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAlll.
k Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. fid. extra.
D” RAWING-ROOM
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
1=
} -mi
w
ALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDEST AL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
ŧ
Dr aw ing-room
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD an<k
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESAIM#
PRICES. NEWTON and LAM li. /. M
t
Austrian bent-
wood
F IT R N i T U R E.
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
R
OCR INC EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
ţ
all sizes
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
ť
SP E, I N G MA T-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. Ui.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar side-
boards, from £3 10s. ; Clothes Horses, from
10s. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from ous.
N
EWTON AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


The Latest Marvel of
American Ingenuity
IS THE LADIES’
The New Waterbury.
Mr. O. Fogy (jeweller of the old school) :
“How’s trade ?”
Mr. Enterprise (up to the times); “ V ery poor,
indeed.”
Mr..(J F. ; “ Everything except watches.”
Mr. E. : “So I hear. The factories are all
busy. ”
Mr. O. F. : “ How do you account for that ?”
Mr. E. : “ Well it’s very curious, but it is rather
a long story.”
Mr. O. E. ; “ Oh, let’s have it.”
Mr. E. : “Well, here goes.”
THE STORY.
Time was when only the, very rich could own
watches. In the days when our great-grandfathers
were carried about in sedan chairs, and ®ur great-
grandmothers played the harp—when my lord
used an elegant gold snuff-box, and my lady wore
a chiffoniere a yard high—watches were elegant
toys, and encrusted with jewels and beautified
with every conceivable device of cunning and
ingenuity and precious poor timekeepers they
were.
Even in the days of our grandfathers watches
were comparatively rare.
George Law, and other millionaires, used to look
back witli pride to the days they were able to buy
their first watches, and well they might, for a good
watch in those days was a matter of £30 or so.
But now, anybody can own and carry a wab n.
They are as plenty as blackberries. The school-
boy, the shop-girl, even the. hod-carrier, each and
all can afford a good timepiece.
THE ENTERING WEDGE.
What lias brought all this about? Some years
ago the community was startled by the advent of
a new watcli at a very low price, so low that people
thought it was a toy or plaything. At first it was
ridiculed—and indeed almost ever since fun has
been made of the Waterbury. But in spite of all
this, owing to its time-keeping qualities, it has
steadily grown in favour, and the demand for it
constantly increased. It marked an epoch in
watch history. It was long maintained that retail
watch dealers would not touch it, but to-day they
are its best friends. It meets a want and is bound
to go. It is curious how little faith many people
had in the Waterbury, and yet how it has belied
their fears. It has been laughed at as a toy, but
its sale all over the world proclaims it a real
watch.
“l TOLD Y’OU SO.”
But now comes the strangest part of it. The
Waterbury has just put on the market a new
watch, viz., “Series J.” Short-wind, stem-set,
jewelled bearing, enamelled dial, with seconds
hand. Many in the trade, as usual, are ready
with their silly fears, predicting the injury to the
sale of higher priced watches. Why can they not
see that the Waterbury, by putting a good time-
keeper within the reacli of those who never owned
or carried a watch, has in the end helped the sale
of higher-priced watches, and created a demand in
a quarter where it never existed before, just as the
circulation of illustrated magazines and periodicals
makes a demand for higher forms of art.
The Waterbury Watch Co. are also out with a
new lady’s watch, the first really good lady’s watch
that has ever been offered at a low price, small and
convenient in size, dainty in appearance, and made
with the same wonderful care, organisation, and
mach inery that has made the success of their other
watches.
This completes the trio, Series E. Series J, and
Series L.
Lively Testimonials.
D. Graham, Bronson, Fla., April 8, ’80 ; “I am
fifty years of age, and I may say 1 was born a
watchmaker, and all my brothers and sisters were
watchmakers. I have handled watches of every
description all my life and must now candidly
confess that your last two watches, 1 J and L,’beat
the world. I will handle them now for all they
are worth.”
(( S- d. Wheler, Pittsburg, Kas., Jan. 29, ’10;
1 1 would not do without your watches. They
are just the ones for miners in this place. They
will run where other makes of watches will not.
roar ‘Series ,) ’ is a dandy.”
B. P. Huyck, Swanton, ()., Feb. 15, ’80; “The
Series .1 ’ Waterbnrys, short-wind, are necessity
now. They have passed the experimental a?e and
Will hereafter be recommended by me on their
Merits with all confidence.”
p- K. Lewis, Shepherdstowh, W. Va., April
W : “ j/^m 1 d< r\,sed with the ‘ Series L and J ’
Waterbnrys. Please send quarter dozen each.”
E. Raney, Sprague, Mo., Feb. 5, ’80: “The
series J’ watches are ‘daisies,’ and I believe
will take the lead of all cheap watches.”
r m Bethea, Dillon, S.C., in letter April
wr^es : “ i will sell your watches, as I
Rink they are the best cheap watches in the
Market.”
John Gawrouski, Sr. Cape Girardeau, Mo.,
ip). 6th, ’89 : “ Your ‘ J ’ watch is the best for
ne money that I have ever seen.”
’so!‘ Taylor, McKinney, Tex., April 10,
h' ; . * lie ‘Series J’ is to my knowledge the
in the world for the amount paid
, H. J Hallock, Wyalusing, Pa., April 5, ’89 :
Hi f 'n have a watch in your short-wind
Well » * )e ver y popular. It looks good and runs
“ T- Duncan, Eau Claire, Wis., Feb. 13, ’89 :
he think the ‘ Series L ’ Waterbury is the
nut ii les> watch made for the money. It will
ina'k i nickel Chatalaines now in
Chas. H. Andrews, Centralia, Kas,, Feb. 14,
’B9 : “1 must tell you that one of your ‘ Berios J ’
watches, sold two month? ago to the engineer of
the Harrow factory, continues to keep correct
time. It has badly beaten two other watches of
standard make—both high-grade, 15-je\velled
movement. The parties all come up at noon every
once in a while to look at my regulator, and Mr.
Waterbury comes out on top every time. People
in this town are learning that when they hear the
whistle at Harrow factory it means noon, exactly.
Hurrah for ‘ Series J ’ !”
Fred N. Day, Oxford, N.C., April 3, ’B9 :
“ \ our new Series watches are doing such excellent
work I must relate an experience I had a few days
ago. While repairing a Howard watch for a pro-
minent lawyer of this town, I loaned him a ‘ Series
J’to carry, first setting it by my Howard regu-
lator. Two weeks later (having been out of town)
he called for his watch and returned the ‘ Series
*l.’ I compared it with my regulator, and to my
surprise it was only one minute out of the way,
and Mr. H assured me he had not touched the
set. This for a cheap watch beats the world.
Please send me another dozen, as I have only three
left out of the last lot.”
W. M. Welsh, Agt., Nashville, Tenu., May 13,
’B9 : “Your watches are the best and the quickest
sold in this place.”
John FLeischhauer, Rochester, N.Y., May H,
’B9: “Your short-wind wat.h ‘Series J’ gives
good satisfaction.”
Fn. H. Thielens, Mattoon, Ills., Feb. 11, ’B9:
The ‘ Series J and L ’ watches have sounded the
death-knell of Swiss tickers.”
THEY WERE SENSIBLE.
“Want one of the new ladies’ ‘Waterbary Watches,’ eh? Well, that’s
sensible. I'll agree to that. Anything else ? ”
N. C. Patterson, Junction, City Tex., Mai’ch
15, ’B9; “ The ladies size ‘Series L ’ Waterburys
are daisies.”
J. M.. Brown, Sennile, Ga., Eel). 10, ’B9 : “The
Waterbury short-wind is the best selling watch I
ever handled. ”
A. Hoppe and Son, Apalachicola, Fla., April 6,
’B9 : “ Your watches received, and we are well
pleased with them.”
F. C. Cook, Janesville, Wis., April 10, ’B9 :
“ Your watches are selling well, and all I have
sold are doing good work. ”
J. M. D, Miller, Luca, Miss., April 1.3, ’B9 ;
“ The ‘ L Series’ has come to stay as well as the
others. All are good.”
John Gawrooski, Sr. Cape, Girardeau, Mo.,
Eeb. 6, ’B9 : “ Your ‘ J ’ watch is the best for the
money that I have ever seen. ”
E. Raney, Sprague, Mo., Feb. 5, ’B9; “The
‘ Series J ’ watches, as I think, are the best
of all cheap watches.’
John Pea use, Palmyra, Wis., May 10, ’B9 : “It
is surprising what good satisfaction your watches
give.”
B. S. Fogle, Scott, 0., May 16, ’B9: I am
satisfied that the Waterbury is the best watch
made for the money. ”
What They Say About the New Ladies’
Waterbury Watoh,
Housekeeper: “The cakes bake well and the
servants have been on time ever since 1 bought
it. ”
Milliner: “Never sold so many bonnets with
so little trouble as 1 have since I bought a
Waterbury.”
Schoolgirl : “ It keeps better time than the music
teacher does, though he’s lovely. It’s just
splendid.”
Editress : “ Miss Nora de Plume, write that
watch up the best you know how.”
Shopgirl : “ Haven't missed a boat or a ’bus since
I owned it.”
Cook : “ Mishthrus niver luked ser plazed as whin
she saw me a-eomin’ in wid a new Wathurbry
Watch.”
Governess: “The children have better lessons
and behave better generally.”
Lady’s Companion ; “ Have to keep taking it out
to admire it.”
Dressmaker : “Never had so many watch-pockets
to make before.”
Johnny ; “ I’ve got one, too.”
General Chorus from their Sisters and their
Cousins and their Aunts: “Its the most
wonderful ladies’ watch ever made, and we
won’t wear any other for it keeps perfect
time.”
In fact, it would be a relief to hear somebody
abuse it. We would like to have someone to
“ go for.”
Emil C. Genf.ux, Jeanerette, La., Feb. 8, ’B9 :
“Everyone who has purchased a Waterbury,
‘ Series J, ’ from me is delighted with his fine and
accurate timekeeper. The Mayor of Jeanerette
purchased one three months ago, and now wears it
constantly in preference to his fine gold watch, of
which he used to be very proud.” Aprils, ’B9 :
“ The ‘Series J ’ is getting such a good reputation
that 1 will have to order some more before long.
The ‘ Series L ’ watch is praised the same, but
would sell faster if the case was solid silver or
gold filled.” April 17, ’B9 : “A German engineer
came to my store the other day and said to me :
‘ Mr. Genenx, you must not laugh at me, but I
want one of those watches like the one you sold
Brown some time ago. I tell yon that watch of
Brown’s didn’t vary one minute in the last fifteen
days, and I want one like it.’ ‘All right, Mr.
Henkel,’l said, ‘you shall have one like it. It is
a Waterbury Series J. They are indeed good
time-pieces. But I thought you had a good gold
watch with which you were satisfied ?”
“Oh ! no, sir,” he answered, “ that Waterbury
of Brown’s beats it ‘ all hollow,’ and I’ll put mine
aside for the Waterbury. I prefer a good time-
piece to appearances.” And I sold him a
“ Series J.”
J. G. Bodensohatz, Lemont, Ills., April 11, ’B9 ;
‘ Waterburys are the things for the boys.”
The Long-Wind Waterbury.
i Co produce a watch, so simple in construction
that it could be sold cheaper than any other and
still be a reliable timekeeper, has been the problem
for watchmakers the world over. The Swiss de-
veloped the making of watches by hand to the
highest point, at the same time cheapening hand
labor to the utmost possible extent. The Americans
sought a solution in a different direction by making
tlie parts of their watches by machinei’y and inter-
changeable. However, the cost of manufacture
still remained too great for the watch for the
million. An enterprising Yankee company finally
solved the problem by dispensing with the greater
number of parts of a watch (reducing the number
from 160 to 57 !) making all of them by machinery
and so easy of adjustment that expert labour was
not needed to put them together. This crowning-
achievement in the history of watchmaking was
accomplished by The Waterbury Watch Com-
pany in their Waterbury Watch which, though
cheap, is as perfect in its parts and as reliable in
its timekeeping as any watch made.
Australian Testimonials.
H. Gee, Brookside House, Fulham-street, Enmore,
June 10, ’89 : “ 1 have had my Waterbury about 18 months
and am fully satisfied with it.”
Thomas M’Hay, Coolangutta, Shoalhaven, August 25, ’86 ;
‘ ‘ \S ill you please send me down another half-dozen of the
Waterbury Watches ; the last dozen have all given great
satisfaction and keep excellent time,”
Alexander Irvine, Wingham, July, ’8C; “I am very
well satisfied with the watch.”
8- Beaumont, 10 Alexander-street, Paddington, August
1. ’89: “ I'have had a Waterbury for three years ; during
that period it has kept excellent time. Previous to buying
it I bought six watches, two English Levers, one by Crofts
and one by|a London maker; and four Genevas, but never had
the satisfaction out of them that I had from the Water-
bury.”
Thomas M‘Lay, Coolangatta, Shoalhaven, April 16, ’86:
“ I received the last half-dozen all right, and they have
given great satisfaction.”
William Nosworthy, August 24, ’86: “ Gentlemen,—I
am pleased to state the Waterbury Watch received by me
opened to my thorough satisfaction and keeps time splen-
didly.”
John Paule, Pitt Town, July 20, ’89: “I have had my
W’aterbury for two years, and I am pleased to say that it
has given every satisfaction as an accurate timekeeper. 1
have worn it every day, and, being a carpenter, it has had
some pretty rough wear. It has not cost me a penny
since I bought it, with the exception of the cost of a new
glass.”
J. Sedman, George River, Savauer: “ I have had one of
your watches for the past 12 months, and I have found it
a very good timekeeper, and I prefer it before all other
watches.”
A. Deacon, Arthur-street, North Shore, August 2,’89:
“I have carried one of your watches since Christmas,
1886, during which time I have found it a most correct
timekeeper. It has been in the water three times, and
had some very rough usage, yet it has never given me any
trouble, with the exception of coming to the Waterbury
Watch Company for a hand, the first sixpence I have
spent on it.”
D. Fawlbr, Nyngan: “I received the Waterbury watch
safe to hand. It is a splendid timekeeper, as yet.”
Peter Fitzalbion, 26 Bennett-street, Sydney, June 24,
’89 : “I have had a Waterbury in my possession for two
years and six months, during which time it has kept excel-
lent time and given every satisfaction ; also, it has not
been cleaned or repaired since I have had it.”
L. Fraser; “I have had one of your watches for six
months, and I am perfectly satisfied with its perform-
ance.”
Harry Garvan, Wagga, June 20, ’89: “ I have worn
one of your watches for nearly three years, and I must
say I am very pleased with it as it has proved a most
reliable watch. All I want is the correct time, and the
Waterbury lias always given it to me. I have compared it
with a 15-guinea watch belonging to a friend of mine,
hut the Waterbury beat it hollow as a time-keeeper.”
Christian Alt, Wagga, March 18, ’86 : “ I received your
letter informing me that the watches were sent by rail. I
went to 'he station to-day and got them; they were laying
there for a week. They are in good order, and I am well
satisfied with them.”
DUST.
Dust, dust, dust, dust everywhere, on every
tiling and in every thing. Dust on the street and
dust in the house. Dust on the table and dust in
our clothes. Dust in our eyes and ears and nose
and lungs. We breathe it and eat it and drink it.
Dust in every crevice and crack. But it fails to
get into the new Waterbury Watch. That is dust-
proof, and the works do not clog up. It can be
wound and set without opening.
THE HANDSOMEST WOMAN IN SYDNEY.
The handsomest woman in Sydney should wear
the handsome new Ladies’ Waterbury Watch.
This accurate little timepiece can be wound and
set without opening.
WOMEN’S RIGHTS.
Whatever may be thought about women’s rights
in general, there can be no doubt about some of
them in particular. It is every woman’s right,
and it will be her delight, to own and wear one of
the new Ladies’ Waterbury Watches. These
elegant and accurate little watches can be wound
and set without opening.
PENNY WISE AND POUND FOOLISH.
Don’t be a penny wise and a pound foolish, but
be a pound wise, and not at all foolish. For &\
you can buy your wife, your daughter, your son,
or yourself one of the elegant, new short-wind
jewelled Waterbury Watches. These watches can
be wound and set in a moment’s time without
opening, and no watch can keep better time.
That’s the main point.
ADVICE TO LADIES KEEPING SERVANTS.
If you have servants advise them to buy the
new ladies’ Waterbury Watch. It is a small,
elegant and reliable time-piece that costs very
little money. When you send your maid out with
the children she can have no excuse for not return-
ing at the proper time if she wears one of these
watches. If you order a meal at a certain hour
your cook is bound to have it ready if she wears a
Waterbury Watch. Any servant can save enough
in two weeks to buy one of these watches.


Tobacco, etc.
IT IS
A Pact Indisputable
THAT AT
Craig & Men’s
NEW SOUTH WALES
BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
you can get everything required for fitting
your saloon in any style at a small advance
on London and New York prices, or they
will fit up your saloon at short notice
From ,£lO Upwards.
A Largs and Varied Stock
OF
Hairdressing Chairs,
MIRRORS, HOT-WATER URNS,
AND
Saloon Furniture Generally.
+
Razors, Scissors, Combs, Brushes,
STROPS,
Puff Boxes and. Stiffs,
WIG BLOCKS,
WEAVING STICKS & SCREWS,
PLAIT MAKING MACHINES,
Curling, Pressing, Pinching and other Irons,
HAIRDRESSERS’ STOVES,
Shampooing Taps, Shampooing Basins & Apparatus,
Haircltting Cloths,
SALOON TOWELS, NECK BRILLIANTINE,
Shaving and Clothes Brushes,
ANTIQUE OIL, the most useful for making
Lime Juice and Glycerine,
Ha, i r Elixir,
PURE AMERICAN BAY RHUM,
RAZOR HONES, &c.
Razors k Scissors Ground k Set
FOR THE TRADE.
+
Town and Country Hairdressers are in fanned that
-ice engage for them Competent Assistants, and, before
tending them, are thoroughly tried by us.
Wholesale Agents for the Celebrated
3 3
Razors & Scissors.
CRAIG & AITKEN
ARE ALSO
IMPORTERS OF EVERY KIND
OF *
Tobacco, Cigars and Cigarettes
And have an Immense Stock of
Tobacconists’ Goods of every Description.
Wholesale
Agents
lor
, Army & Havy Tobacco & Cigarettes
IT. C. Williams’ Golden Eagle Tobacco
i Vulcan Tobaccos and Pipes
I My Sweetheart Cigarettes
Corantry Orders, enclosing P. 0.0., attended to
witWut delay. Any Goods not m Stock at once
procured.
Note our Address ■
CRAIG & AITKEN,
(Next to Priddy, the Hatter),
Tobacco and Cigar Merchants and Importers,
080 A «83 «EOR«E STREET
(Between Liverpool and Gonlburn Streets),
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Special Advertisements.
i 0H N BRIDGE & 00.
0 CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
DARL IS a HA RBO UR,
wo O L BROKER s.
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear cn
Opossum Skins, itr.
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
DARL IXO HA RBO UR,
WO O L BROKER s.
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
4_2 Margaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
,peer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1S86; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEAf ES Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing hut an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality-CHRONIC and
. _ xrnv . WAIirXT PorvrVlp
10 a.in. to it a.in. ,
10 to 11 a.m. only.
'fn
/■>
9^
0/ cru
TO YOTJKTG- MEKT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
'T'HE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nen ous
or Sexual Debility, Xo Medicine': mil be required, as by-
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Uim-
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life —overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debilitv, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pams in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energv, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
sy-mptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GL T ARANTEE TO CUBE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A \V HI it KM
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investu/ate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to covei
postage. C()NST - I;rATION by LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
sio-ned agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred bv the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
ELECTRIC PHOTO-EHC. CO., 8 SRIDCE'ST • SYCHEV.
The oxford Hotel, TSllxi.g Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE - Proprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOCK
FarleigH,
TANNERS
16 x YORK
JUST ILi .A. TsT ID I ICsT O.
Nettnelm, &
AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
x STREET, x SYDNEY -
Co.,
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland
(x)
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
L L.
ROOWf
LTIH
CONSL)
A"
PP. K 1 p H 5 * —pmlmmim— ill
_
Mil
J:
3KAT
CM
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and fa\ ourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research ihoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safe-t methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with the:e widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un.
happ'neas than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difflcul ies, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
ths water, accompanied by slight burning or
smart ing sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
ihc day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the boweD, specks before the eyes,
ba hfulnc s, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. E ver or kidney complaints, dreams,
1 uzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
w r eak ttomach, yellow or blood shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hack ng
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these d fflculties. On receipt of Gd. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-ROUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of ihc private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecc:sary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform -
tioa and prescription may assist you in restoring
£o me poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOLTS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He wall
on receipt of such a letto-, write yon, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the ca=e, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but s'xpencc ; enclosed
in the volume wi'l be found a 1 st of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carcful y per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between tin dodo" and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his succesu All
communications should be addresse i
Dr. RICHARDS,
■7 Spring street
(Off Pitt Street North)
STD ItsT IE ItT.
Be sure to mention this paper when wntin.
CONSULTATION FREE.
HIS NEW HORSE.
“Say. Mister, why don't yer let him out fer a scrubbin’-board? "- Life.


BEALE <sc CO.’S
NEW WAREHOUSE.
~7--Z
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
482* 484, &'4BS George Street,
SYDITEY.
REVOLUTIONISING
THEi FIANO TRADE.
Messrs. Beale & Co.’s Great Enterprise.
rpHERE can be no questioning the fact that the Piano
-I Trade of these Colonies has undergone a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desirable
change certainly no firm has contributed more than
Messrs. Beale and Company. During the time high prices
continued the trade was held by a few, and hundreds of
homes now rendered attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce could dream of becoming the ultimate
owners of the instrument which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic life.
When Beale and Company commenced business they
had quietly gauged this condition of affairs in Australia,
and they began operations on a plan which could alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such as
they proposed. With the Australian selling branch of
their enterprise they resolved to combine the manufacture
of Pianos in Germany—the centre of the world’s trade for
that instrument. But the experts sent out here for the
purpose of fully determining what was best fitted for
colonial requirements reported that it was essential to
have a special make of piano to suit our climate —an in-
strument as different as those made for Europe as Aus-
tralia is different from the Old World. The result of this
was the production of the staunchest pianoforte of
modern times—the iron-framed “ Hapsburg.” The in-
strument is regarded by the most capable experts of
Europe as the Production of the Age, combining as
it does every feature of the highest class instrument with
the maximum of strength and durability, and it was placed
on the market at prices much under what other firms and
manufacturers had previously demanded. Although it
took almost endless trouble and long, patient labour to
produce the design of the “ Inimitable Hapsburg,” yet once
produced the demand grew so rapidly, and has become so
great, that the enterprising originators are able to out-
distance all competitors for both quality and price. The
peculiar construction of the iron frame, the excellence
of the wires, and the unique movements have, with all
other factors, contributed to this splendid success. No
other instrument possesses to the same degree such rich,
full, clearj bell-like tones, so noticeable in the “Haps-
burg,” especially in the higher grades, while strength,
solidity, and imperviousness to climatic influences have
been so well looked to that whether on the coldest, bleak-
est spots of New Zealand or our own Monaro Plains, or in
the hottest of our Western and Northern areas, this
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, but improves its
tone and consequent value even after years of use. And
it must continue so. The genius and experience of the
mechanical world in this branch of art are embodied in
this one instrument —the inimitable “ Hapsburg ” and
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute in which
it is held. Beale & Company have placed the
“Hapsburg” with thousands of families in Australia.
Homes in the far-distant back blocks, and homes in the
city, are not only enlivened but are made purer and better
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved to
do a”large trade by selling these superior instru-
ments at prices and on terms demanded for the
lower grades, and success has crowned their efforts.
They do by far the largest business, and hold the
largest stocks in the colonies. They give their best
efforts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Time-payment which they have made peculiarly
their own. The correspondence department is of itself a
huge undertaking ; every mail brings its burden of letters.
Prom the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
the astute merchant they come. And they came too
from clergymen, from doctors and solicitors, from civil
servants, and fropi the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every grade
and class now recognise the influence which music exerts
for good in the life of the home. And every writer re-
ceives courteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsburg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the following Advantages—
-Ist.—-The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverberated
by a sounding board of special construction, are
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tin-
kettly, or metallic sounds so common in cheap
Pianos.
2nd.—Being double oblique the strings are of a
greater length and fuller tone than in the old
straight-strung Pianos.
3rd.—The action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4th.—All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
sth. —They are all seven Octaves.
Cth. —They have consolidated Iron Frames of
great strength, thus resisting the rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate, whereby tuning is
only required at long intervals.
7th. —They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cock-
roaches, silver-fish, mice, &c. They have wire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by vermin,
and other unique improvements devised for
similiar ends.
Bth.—The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers,
instead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every Piano except the Haps-
burg.
9th.—They have brass or nickel-faced Wrest-
planks, instead of the old-fashioned perishable
style.
10th.—Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
Ilth.—The outer cases are handsome in design,
and of durable beautiful woods; they can be
had in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or in
ebony and gold.
I2th.—No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a Hapsburg Piano
upon easy terms of payment. _ No charge will be
made for packing or for packing cases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by post or from our
»wn travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYD3STEY,
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
BUGGIES, PHOTONS, MW
PONY CARTS, &c., &c.
Express & Lumber Waggons.
Harness for Buggies and Waggons,
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
—% —
Agricultural Machinery.
F'
4
H
1
a
r-v< '■
ONLY
■f V- ■ ■' y .
i w'^
m
ONt^
MURDER!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest selected Virginia
crops by F. W. Saywell, of 6
Park-street, it will
ARREST
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure brands now on
the market. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the numer-
ous poisons
IMPRISONED
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, an 1 obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Keta'l from
F + W* Saywell & Co M
G Park Street,
SYDUET.
Jt
,
\ Vkws Portraits
. k/ > _
ŧ
\
MOJVGlflES
Pjl^^EA
MhT SS, ISLANDS
3,6 - 6 i&$
'Sift'C
/ ves
LICHTNER & CO.,
SYDNEY:
318 GEOEGE STEEET,
BRISBANE:
9 ELIZABETH STREET,
w
,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
—STOCK—
IMPOETEES.
m- SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE m
—op—
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles appertaining’ to PHOTOGRAPHY.
);(
CHEAP AMATEim OUTFITS.
Companies.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
"DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Ratos of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
1 1 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... .... 8 per cent.
3 Months 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
The Compagnoni Catering Co.
GUNSLER’S CAFE
160, 162, 164 Fitt Street,
SYDNEY.
JF. GUNSLER desires to intimate that in
• consequence of the unathorised use of his
name elsewhere, it is necessary that all orders for
Gunsler’s Cafe, or Compagnoni Catering Co., be
addressed, J. F. Gunsler, ICO, IG2, and IC4 Pitt
street.
J, F. Gunsler .. General Manager.
Business Announcements.
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
io years Western Australia has made very
great progress, and, now that the success and per-
manency of the various Coal, Gold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerative
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
the Capital City of the Coming Colony, whilst
it is Cheap.
£lO BUILDING SITES! JSIO
Ten Pounds. Ten Pounds.
Large Allotments. Good Freehold Building
Land. Splendid Position. Torrens’ Title.
City Allotments £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy Terms. Dis-
count for Cash. Buyers of Five Lots receive a
Title free of charge.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad-
dress on application by
The Intercolonial Investment Co,, Limited,
95 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOLTGLAS, Manager.
R
EMBROCATION
1/
T.
L 0 |
I^EVERXWHERE^i
3/6
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF. SHEOEDEB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS
Oils,Colours & Paints
WALLPAPERS FRo M 3-ro k ll
RAI
BathurstSt.
Brickfield Hill,


Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilc-
ken’s Beaeonsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level,
N.B.— Only two hours from Melbourne.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works. Sydney,
August 27, 1889. '
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Supply and Erection of Fencing,
Prospect Reservoir (fresh ten-
ders)
Erection of Shed on Wharf at
Mouth of Mangrove Creek,
Hawkesbury River
Roofing at Hospital for the In-
sane, Parramatta (fresh tenders)
Closing Shed, &e. Cowper Wharf,
Woolloomooloo Bay
Construction of Concrete and
Stoneware Pipe Sewers, Boroughs
of Alexandria, Waterloo, and
Redfern. (Contract 52, Sydney
Sewerage)
Harbour and Rivers Annual Con-
tracts, Supplies, &c., 1890 (£5
deposit required with tender)
Anchors and Chains
Awnings, Sails, Tents, &c.
Brashes, Brooms, &c.
Castings
Cement
Copper and Lead Pipe
Engineers’ Stores, No. 1
Engineers’ Stores, No. 2
Hardwood, Colonial Pine, &c.
Indiarubber Goods, Hose, &c.
Kauri Pine
Leather Belting, Hose, &o.
Oils, Paints, &c.
Plate, Bar Iron, &c. Wednesday
Rope, &c., September 11,
Ironmongery, &c. at 11 o’clock,
Steel
Ship Chandlery
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Ma-
terials
Wrought Iron Angle Bucket Links
Wrought Iron, manufactured in
New South Wales
Wrought Scrap Iron Forgings
Supply of Coal at Sydney
Supply of Coal at Wollongong
Supply of Coal at Lake Macquarie t
Conveyance of Coal from Newcastle
to Clarence River
Ditto ditto ditto Macleay River
Ditto ditto ditto Hastings River
Ditto ditto ditto Richmond River
Ditto ditto ditto Bellinger River
Ditto ditto ditto Manning River
Ditto ditto ditto Tweed River
Ditto ditto ditto Nambucca River
Ditto ditto ditto Cape Hawke
Ditto ditto ditto Camden Haven
Ditto ditto ditto Lake Macquarie
Ditto ditto Wollongong to Shoal-
haven
Ditto ditto ditto Moruya
Bridge over Monk’s Creek, Road
Grafton and Copmanhurst t<
Apple Tree Flat
Bridge, Deep Creek, Road Casino
to Sandy Creek
Tar Paving, &c., Courthouse, Dar-
linghurst
Bridge over Yarranm Creek, road
Coonabarabran to Wergeden
Bridge over Deep Gully, road
Grafton to Cross Roads, towards
Casino
Bridge, in approach toTulladunna Wednesday,
Bridge, near Wee Waa September 25,
Repairs, &c., N.S.S. Vernon (fresh;at 11 o’clock,
tenders)
Repairs, &c., Court House, Single-
ton
Additions, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Casino (time extended.)
Bridge Brown’s Creek, Road Tino-
nee to Port Macquarie
Bridge Broughton Creek, north of
Broughton Village, Main South
Coast Road
Construction of Hand Punt for
Unaira Ferry, Murrumbidgee
River
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Liverpool
Foundations, New Central Police
Office
Repairs, &c., Court House, Quean
beyan
Supply of Gas, &c., Public Build-
ing, Bathurst
Additions Police Officers’ Quarters,
Goulburn
Repairs, &c., Courthouse and
Lockup, Nimitybelle
Drainage, &c., Technological Mu-
seum
Additions, &c., Courthouse, Tam
worth
Supply and Erection of Pumping
Engines, North Shore (contract
No. 56)
Wednesday,
October 9,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
Nov. 6,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 16th August, 1889.
REWARD EOR EXTERMINATION OE
RABBITS.
WITH reference to the notice issued by the
Department of Mines, dated 31st August,
1887, to the effect that the Government of New
South Wales will pay the sum of £25,000 to
any person or persons who will make known or
demonstrate any method or process, not previously
known in the Colony, for the effectual extermina-
tion of rabbits. It is hereby notified, for general
information, that no scheme for the destruction of
rabbits submitted after the 30th September, 1889,
will be considered in connection therewith.
JAMES N. BRUNKER.
Business Announcements.
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY
IMPORTERS OP HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
409 KIEKTT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
§3
r
tl
<TI
: No, John ;no more Tea from you. I buy now from the London and Sydney Tea Company,
r-,
BRAND
GALLEY
f|MC OU> MItHIANB
ill L
iw#, hit
mm
F
0
X
|I
\y~
“ SWEET SPIEIT, HEAE MY PEAYEE.’
Send. for Illustrated Catalogue
—OF—
SODA-WATER APPARATUS and SUPPLIES used in making CARBONATES BEVERAGES,
Instruction and Syrup Book FREE,
Finest
Salmis
AND
Flavours.
f*ure
Fruit
Juices*
THE MATTHEWS TUMBLER-WASHER.
Marble Apparatus, Draught Columns, Tumbler Holders, Coolers, Block Tin-lined Steel
Fountains Generators, Gas Washers, Bottling Setts, Snowflake Marble Dust, Bottle
Boxes and Shipping Cases,
Manufactured by THE FIRM OF JOHN MATTHEWS, New York, U.S.A.
I, B. MILLNEE, Agent, 52 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY, U.S.W.
Anglo Scandinaviaii
Cold Medal
Condensed
The Best
A Diabolical Act.
Yesterday, at a favourite hotel in this city, a
masher, whose name we dare not publish on ac-
count of our dread of the existing incomprehen-
sible law of libel, outrageously insulted the hand-
some young lady behind the bar, by insinuating
that the famous St. Louis Lager Beer was respon-
sible for the brilliant complexion which tinged her
soft and lovely cheeks.
The recent all-night-sitting of the New
South Wales Legislative Assembly has caused a
big run on the well-known tonic, Marshall's Tonic
Nervine.
Mr. Stead’s resignation as editor of the
Pall Mall Gazette has been accepted, it is
understood, and he will start a Radical morning
paper in London.
It is proposed to erect a statue to the
memory of Governor Phillip in Sydney’s Centen-
nial Park. If you would learn what that indivi-
dual has done in order that he should be thus
honoured, consult The Bulletin’s “ History of
Botany Bay ” wherein all the facts concerning the
landing of our noble ancestry are fully detailed.
Alfred Wyatt, P.M. (Vic.), who is about to
be pensioned off, was a member of the law-report-
ing syndicate of Wyatt, Webb, and A’Beckett
which existed in Victoria a quarter of a century
ago, and whose reports are constantly cited in the
courts. Wyatt was at that time law-reporter for
the Argus as well. Since then Webb and
A’Beckett have become Supreme Court judges,
but Wyatt never got beyond a P.M., and now
Wrixon and Cuthbert are taking even that humble
billet from him. Wyatt was one of the founders
of the Yorick Club. During the Kelly scare the
outlaws once met Wyatt on a lonely road up
Euroa way, travelling on duty and didn’t know
him. When Messrs. Kelly and party were after-
wards told of the circumstance they almost wept
to think what a grand show they had lost of
having a distinguished prisoner of war to be held
for a king’s ransom. Wyatt is the most conscien-
tious man on the face of the earth. In fact, he is
too good for this earth. He has actually fined
himself for being late at the police court.
Mr, James Cowie, the sole remaining
relic of Victoria’s first Legislative Council, is a
gold-mine of historical reminiscences. As a boy
six years old he stood at a window of his father’s
house and saw the march-past of Scotch troops
called out to crush “ Boney,” who had just made
his escape from Elba, and he saw the remnants of
those deluded warriors return from Waterloo. He
states that they didn’t look particularly glorious,
but seemed.to need a wash and scrape down. This
braw old Scot was a hunky boy of eleven when
two men —Hardy was the name of one, something
else the other’s —were hanged and beheaded, at
Stirling, in 1820, for making disrespectful remarks
about dear George 111., an insane old monster
then on his very last legs. Young Cowie, living
in the vicinity, tried hard to sneak off and see the
executioner flourish the top portion of his victims
in the air, saying, “Behold the head of a
traitor 1” because the juvenile imagination pic-
tured a traitor to the king as something demed
awful. But as Cowie mere wouldn’t let him go, he
solaced himself by throwing stones at his uncle,
who was in command of some yeomanry told off
to keep order in the streets, and run in any more
traitors who might object to the tragedy in hand.
Before coming out to Australia Mr. Cowie had
travelled by one of the first railway trains that
ever ran in England, at which time all the relatives
and friends of passengers made a point of meeting
together and praying for their safe deliverance.
He has vivid recollections of raising his hat to the
then sprightly-looking potentate, the Iron Duke.
In fact the experiences of Cowie date so far
back that when he begins to unburden his memory
it carries the listener back to the dark ages, and
sets one seriously thinking about Moses and Aaron
in the Garden of Eden.
Sir George Bowen, when Governor of
N.Z., was particularly anxious to ingratiate him-
self with the Maoris. Grey was the only medium
between Maori and Pakeha up to that time, and
the poor, misguided natives could generally be
persuaded to desert their pahs and come back to
their father at his request. Bowen, wishing to
demonstrate that Hori had succeeded Hori, girded
up his interpreter and started to stump the native
districts “ When I look round on this magnifi-
cent country and mark the rare beauty of its
scenery, the fertility of its soil, and its indus-
trious and thriving people (discuss the same in
Maori to them, Mr. P.——),” &c., &e. The
wretched vehicle of these insipid remarks cut them
shorter and shorter at each repetition, until at
last the brevity of his speeches startled Bowen,
who, with withering sarcasm, remarked, “Dear
me, what a comprehensive language Maori must
be, Mr. P .”
Speaking of Gladstone and Labouchere,
the Pall Mall Gazette says :
Physically, morally, intellectually, they are at the op-
posite poles. Gladstone is an octogenarian, Labouchere
is not yet 60. Gladstone is tall, Labouchere is short.
Gladstone has the eye of an eagle, Labouchere has that
fathomless lack-lustre eyeball suggesting the suspicion
that he must be none other than the Wandering Jew,
who, having looked on mundane affairs for 19 centuries,
contemplates everything with a blase indifference impos-
sible to anyone not wearied with the sights of nearly 2000
years. The difference of temperament is even more
marked. Gladstone is militant, eager, vehement, im-
perious ! Labouchere dawdles with affected nonchalance
as a political loafer in the midst of affairs. Gladstone
is intense, Labouchere ostentatiously flippant. Glad-
stone is an apostle and a seer, Labouchere is a cynic and
a flaneur. To Gladstone everything in the world is ex-
tremely interesting ; there is no trifle which, when he has
once fixed his gaze upon it, is not capable of becoming
for him, for the time being, the centre of the universe.
For Labouchere the sublimest and most tragic realities
seem as but affording opportunities for a jest or a sneer.
Gladstone reads the lessons in his parish church
and preaches sermons to his household on Sunday |
afternoons. Labouchere edits Truth and makes the
smoking-room laugh on Sunday with stories of his ex-
ploits as the counsellor of the Duke of Divorces. In
politics they are not less opposed. Gladstone is intensely
conservative. How conservative no one will realise until
he disappears. Labouchere is crudely, ruthlessly Radical.
History exists for the one ; it does not exist for the other,
excepting as a kind of infinite series of Greville Memoirs.
Gladstone believes in many things, especially in himself.
Labouchere believes in nothing—least of all in himself.
Gladstone excites passionate enthusiasm, almost approach-
ing to adoration, among the serious, sober-minded folk.
Labouchere is regarded with more or less amused tolera-
tion, as a very superior and entertaining specimen of the
performing poodle of politics.
In spite of its slight exaggeration this is, on the
whole, a fair comparison. As a matter of fact the
one man is redolent of the spirit of a passing, the
other of an as yet not fully arrived age.
The following extract from the police
court report of a late London paper is printed as
a solemn warning to barbers
Eleven Shillings for a Curse. —William Henry
Palmer, hairdresser, was charged that “at Springfield he
did profanely curse, he being above a labourer, and being
under the degree of a gentleman—to wit, a hairdresser.”
Defendant pleaded guilty ; and was fined 2s. and 9s. costs.


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan A Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872 .
CAPITAL - .£590,000.
-Sydney Branch :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
(Next door to National Bank of Australasia).
Brisbane Branch;
CORNER EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Branch. ... Hunter Street.
Money Lent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards to
any amount, repayable by instalments extending
from 1 to 7 years, at current rates of interest—viz.,
6 per cent, to 10 per cent, per annum.
For building or otherwise improving freehold land
the Company offers special facilities.
Progress advances made upon buildings in course
of erection, up n architect’s certificate.
The Company also grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
Mercantile or other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS ;
Three Months ... 6 per cent.
Six „ ... 7
Twelve ~ ... 8 „
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
renewal, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OP DIRECTORS.
BUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
(TM (Anglo-Australian (Investment,
finance (Land Company, gtd.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £lOO,OO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,000
Head Office; - 24 Hunter Street, Sjdney.
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P.
Vice-Chairman: F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Olllce ..31 lombard Street, E.'J.
Chairman: Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
mHIS Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
x result of wise and enterprising management, has won
ts way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban i
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
Deposits received in Large or Small amounts 1
either at call or for fixed periods, hearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES ... Manager
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187 h.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits : —3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager.
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATING,
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works; CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
James Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro- j
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will |
treated by the latest known scientific methods, |
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
cqlorination, together with a complete assay and I
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and j
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden. |
Por further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER. j
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
Business Announcements.
—THE—
mmim mutual
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
lOoEi'o.ses
OP
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1373.
/isSBLs
(SS
■2s*
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton , M.L.A, ,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets.
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
THE AUSTRAL BANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
(PHILLIPS & CO).
Reserve Capital Account £250,000
Reserve Fund .... .... .... .... 61,431 10 10
Total Assets over Inabilities 311,431 10 10
Head Office .... .... Sydney, N’.S.W.
Melbourne Office .... 464 Collins Street.
London Office .... .... 1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices ....
Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
( V ictona : Lara.
Rates for Fixed Deposits over £30 :
7a per cent, for 3 Years
7 ~ 12 Months
6 per cent, for 6 Months.
5 3
Balance Sheets and further information may be obtained on application to
6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
•T. S. jE”. Cowell,
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting, &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
ikustrajliaii 10.0.1313€3:r Worlds,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
TRAMS PASS
EYEfcy FEW MINUTES
PALACE HOTEL
sr w
I
iS'S*
.«■. ■
K
,
0;
jJ.A.WILSON
PSOPRiETOP
G.W.CLARE
MANAGER.
The PALACE HOTEL, BOUSKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is—
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three KEunsired. Magnificent Bedlrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT &. COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
SST Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up' in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
BT TWO ZP-A-SSIEHLsTG-IBIEa OTIS LIFTS.
)-(
Ladies’ Boudoir* Drawing* Smoking* and Reading Rooms*
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook Si Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms : Single Bedroom, 2s. 6d. per KTiglit.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel,}
mi ■) .-.OC
Foil particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
Medical,
SMITH, -CT.S.A.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
ITos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEOEGZ STREET,
sirzs^Eir.
Honrs : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
ULVSRMACHEE’S world-
fames GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OP
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
AYE received Testimonials from Three
--- Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
r or full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet ‘ Galvanism : N ature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FLO SX <Sc SHIPKAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins- street West, Melbourne,
Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,”
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD k CO.-, SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent cr chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
JT. FEFin E,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST & ACCOUCHEUR,
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation:
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S YD NB "ST.
Business Announcements.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allk’nds cf Tinsfor Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also allkinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. 'X'i-isbl Solicited.
P. C. NICHOLLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners k Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
730 Street, 730
HAYMABKET.
;•!’:
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &0., Made to Order.
-AUSTRALIAN—
Boiler Blour and ||fam J|tore6,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office; - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street),
Brnnton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
UMBRI :iLAS
RE-COVE RED.
CTUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Stdnkt,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.


It is proposed to build “ a dead-house ” to
receive the overslop from Westminster Abbey.
This, The Bulletin thinks, is unnecessary.
What is required is not an enlargement of burial
space, but a condensation of the matter buried.
Looking at it journalistically, the illustrious dead
have hitherto been inserted with all the pomp and
circumstance of ‘ ‘ leaded-out ” leading articles ; let
them now be condensed, boiled down, or cremated
into neat little pars— or jore. In a word, West-
minster Abbey wants sab-editing.
Write for plans £10 Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 9G Bathurst-street, Sydney.
For solid comfort, excellent table, cheerful, airy
bedrooms, a central and quiet neighbourhood, commend us
to “THE LANGHAM HOTEL,” Wynyard Square, Sydney.
The Proprietress fully maintains the high reputation this
Hotel has always enjoyed. The terms are very moderate,
and we strongly recommend visitors to the metropolis to
give it a trial.
Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of forty years’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
The Devil Declines.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Old Nosey Bob sat in his sanctum
A-puffing big clouds from black “twist,”
And eyeing a list of departures
Worked off by a turn of the wrist;
With never a friend to console him
Save that near his hand, good quart-pot,
Of all who had-tipped him a, flipper
In exchange for a true-lover’s knot.
“ Mortal coils,” like laurels of heroes,
Or turbans, were ranged on the wall,
And from brackets dependent the festoons
Of hanging-hemp drooped like a pall—
All trophies of Government service,
All perquisites pickled in soap
When building is blooming : and brisker
They’ll be snapped up for scaffolding rope.
The dip spluttered dim in its socket,
And phantoms of shadow and glare,
Like ghosts from the Gallows’ were haunting
The wall at the back of bis chair ;
He picked up the pewter beside him t
And, scorning all leeling of dread,
“ A health to my friend and my patron,
To noble Old Harry ! ” he said.
Then the light flickered blue in the socket,
And “ Bob ” for a moment did blench,
For an orthodox, sooty-black Satan
Was scorching the opposite bench ;
He winked, ’twas like closing a furnace,
Said, “ How goes it Nosey, old boss,
When you talk of the devil, he cometh;
Tush ! why don’t you welcome your Boss ? ”
Then Robert gulped out with a shiver—
“ Come, Nicholas, none of your larks;
When I toasted Old Harry, my patron,
I was thinking of ’Bnery Parkes,
Who declares that all hanging’s barbaric,
A brutal and cowardly thing,
Yet, never opposes a stretching,
Accords me the length of my string.
“ Lord Carington, too, he is ‘bully,’
He won’t even women exempt,
When a prospect of stretching the law spoils
My prospect of stretching the hemp.
But, your Majesty, this is what riles me—
When I’ve got a client or two
These cussed Protectionist members
Kick up such a hnlla-balloo.
“There’s Walker, and
N inny, and Sullie,
O’Mara, and Dibbs,
I declare,
A-trying to shorten
my tether,
And interdict ‘dan-
cing on air; ’
They can’t be quite
sound on Protec-
tion,
Some small share
of that is my due,
For mine is a native
industry
That hankers for
fostering, too.
“If the next one I
strangle’s a
woman,
She’s bound to be
strung, I sup-
pose—
I don’t like it, I’m,
after all, human.
And yet, dare not
turn up my nose;
I’m not quite as sere
as you, Satan,
Here’s my fist, as
my name’s Nosey
Bob,
I’ll part you this work
and the fiver,
Will you collar? I’m
‘Jack’ of the job.
“Ugh ! pinion the
arms that have
dandled
Her babies, poor
innocent dears!
To see her face with-
ered with terror,
Her body half palsied with fears.
To see the frail form of a woman
Dragged up to that horrible brink,
From which bloody, brutalised monsters
Have shrunk, and for ever will shrink.
“ To see round the gallows those gapers,
Who revel in gore while secure,
Then rush to encarmine the papers
That batten on all that’s impure.
I care not to string up a woman,
I’m human—oblige, if you can !
It cannot haunt you, you’re a demon,
But I, after all, am a man.”
“ My friend, ’tho’ you’re shorn of one feature,”
Said Clootie, “you’re not minus cheek,
One would fancy that I was a creature
Of routine, and you were the * beak.*
No, Bob, I’d ne’er sully my fingers
Unhusking for Sheol a ghost,
I have nothing to do with the killing,
My province is ruling the roast.
“ Do’t yourself; there’s the signer of warrant,
The Executive, giving their nod,
The Sheriff, the Press, and the Parson,
Who reckon she’s yanked up to God ;
All links in the chain, cold and bloody,
From one to the other she’s passed,
And tho’ you are certainly ‘ruddy,’
You’re not the worst link, tho’ the last.”
He vanished. Bob sat in his sanctum
A-puffing his baooy, ’twas twist,
With one hand he pressed down the ashes
Then thumped on his knee with shut fist,
Saying—“ Even the Devil refuses ;
By Jove, ’twas repulsive to him !
He’s right tho’, I’ll stick to my screw, as
There’s so many swells in the swim.”
"LIVE AND LET LIVE.”
“Fou’ and Happy.”
THE ETHICS OF DRINK: BY A LOVER OF WHISKY.
Allowing that Nature intended everything
which produces happiness to be used in modera-
tion, Alcohol is, in my opinion, the king of all the
means for obtaining the end. It is simply a lie
to deny that the feeling of being “tight” is not
happiness. “ G-ettin’ fou’ and unco happv ” is no
myth : it is a blessed reality. These horrid senti-
ments of mine are death to my chance of any
billet in which continuous and stated times of
work are necessary, but reasoning by analogy I
perceive that the best chance of doing anything
great follows an occasional flare-up in the
intervals of work. I also find that it is neces-
sary to be a total abstainer in the absence of
stimulants, and, in order to make up for this
stern necessity, I have registered a solemn vow*
over the keyhole of a locked cellar, never to
refuse a drink until the capacity of my body and
the carrying capabilities of my hands and mouth
refuse the boon.
The Time to Deink.
Before meals in order to give you an appetite,
afterwards to settle the stomach, during meals as
A CASE Of RECONSTRUCTION,
UNCLE PRINCE “ He's jes’ a triffle sprung behaind, but ' r reck’n 'r kin cush dat.”
"Now den, all togedder!"
"Spec’ dat's putty nigh eben, Now, Goliah, s’posin’ I git de saddle an’ we
tek a-’
Swar ter Lawd ' f he doan' look jes’ lalk a kainfreroo! Got ter fix dem front ones Someways."
THE MCLE-" This reconstruction business has gone far enough: Here goes for soma
long-distance target practice. "
— American.
a lubricant, and between meals when you feel that
you require one. These are the proper times for
tasting. I don’t know why a Scotchman should
say “I’m no tastin’ noo ” —a man is a fool who
only tastes. Even an Englishman, Mr. Swiveller,
has left it on record that “ half-and-half ” ought
not to be sipped. I am no supporter of
night-drinking. I think, with most experts, that
in one or two hours after supper a man of ordinary
glassage can take enough to induce a sound sleep.
One word of advice — never take alcohol during sleep.
I have seen a man choked by its going down the
wrong throat, a nonsensical expression, but you
know what I mean. The great principle which
placed the house of Brunswick on the British
throne is conveyed in their mottoes, Nunc est
Übendum” and “ Semper par alas. ”
Quantity.
This is a very grave question, and in my pre-
sent circumstances is regulated by opportunity.
Men of independent means will find that it is not
advisable to drink a maximum on every occasion.
I have used this word as a superlative of the fes-
tive magmm, and this brings me to shed a (beery)
tear over “golden hours departed” when I was
being instructed by my gallant colonel in the
mensuration of liquids. I cannot do better than
quote his advice, which, by the way, is Greek to
the labouring classes and an insult to the poorer
of the mercantile. I shall supplement it with ad-
vice gratis to these worthy, but ignorant, people.
This is how old P button-holed me in the cool
grey of a summer daybreak when he was off to bed
and I to dress for watering order. _ .
“ Wrinkler, my boy, you’re a fair and promising
hand at the table after the cloth is removed. Take
an old man’s advice—don’t overdo it. Here is a
fixed routine for you, and if you stick to it you’ll
thank old P when you also are a colonel.
Sherry and bitters in the ante-room—one glass,
no more. With the soup Manzanilla or
Amontillado; don’t be put off with Montila or
Vino-de-Pasta; have a dry and valuable wine.
Of course you know the solitary exception, Roman
Punch if the soup is turtle. With the fish, more
Manzanilla: claim it as a right; say your father
died for want of it. With these preliminaries you
will be ready for business. I solemnly conjure
you to stick to sparkling wines until the cheese.
Cups and other continental trash are only fit fq r
the girls and doctors. About a magnum is a fair
amount for me ; I am 42 here (slapping his chest).
You are only about 37 or 38. A bottle is enough
for you. With the cheese, a very small glass of
Scotch ale or Bock beer : perhaps it is better to
take none at all. Liqueurs are all poison. I like
them, but they are death to true happiness. If
you must try them I believe the good old cherry
brandy is as good as any. One bottle, more or
less, of Burgundy is my allowance after dinner.
At some messes and houses you can trust the
port, but not at many. A whitewash of East
J ndian sherry, and refuse to touch another drop.
At the whist-table I have found whisky and
water the best. It causes no trouble, and lam
doubtful about this soda and seltzer business.
Vichy is good but nasty. However, I fancy you’re
wanted up the Common. I see the sergeant-major
is taking the battery out. Against orders. You
ought to be with them. Off you go and get into
your overalls.”
I cannot improve on that advice. I carried it
out faithfully, until it disagreed with my purse.
The middle-classes are a useful means of produc-
ing liquor for the upper and lower strata. They
are respectable and, therefore, ought to drink as
little as they like.
For the ordinary artisan and labourer, I recom-
mend beer, colonial in the colonies, except in the
wine districts, where a fair amount of enjoyment
can be had for a shilling bottle and serene content
for three.
Quality.
Drink the best. The best
does not always cost the
most. The best is that which,
consistently with your means,
gives you the most enjoy-
ment. I have under the head
of “Quantity” tried to
show how a gentleman ought
to drink at dinner, but how
to drink when you have less
than£sooa year, or subaltern’s
tick is the great question of
the age. In the great Con-
tinent of Australia there are
so many professors of the
art that orthodoxy in the
matter of potation is almost
unknown. I have never lived at Potts Point, but
I know some of the male functionaries of
that Elysium. I know also that they “ know
not, oh ! they know not ” how or what to drink.
Do you remember Tremolini in the “Princess of
Trebizonde ? ” It would pay many of the
Rumocracy to hire such a valet as Tremolini to
shadow and guide them.
In the bush hard slogging is the rule. Even in
the veritable “forty-rod ” there is a latent snare.
The brain becomes accustomed to it, and after
satiety the re-action is appalling.
Objects oe this “Monograph.”
That’s a good word. I borrowed it from a
scientist, who, in his cups, insists upon letting me
know that he is the author of the “ Monograph on
Melagynalgia,” whatever that maybe.
I have had two objects in inditing this short
essay.
They are primarily to let any poor, deluded,
miserable wretch know that true happiness consists
in being happy; and, secondly, to get rid of a double-
furrowed, reaper-and-binder headache which has
accrued unto me by carrying my theories into
practice.
Writing rot has always been the mania and
solace of (’nother bottle, please, Mrs. Public-
house)
Yours as usual,
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
THE BULLETIN (Published ac Sydney, N S W)
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
The Bulletin, the Premier Australian Li ter art
Journal, is the only paper which has a con.
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
The Bulletin favours —
A Republican Form of Government.
Payment of Members.
One Man, one Vote.
State Revenue derived directly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
The Bulletin denounces —
Religious Interference in Politics
Foreign Titles,
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting mom
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is fonad
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started seven years ago with no capital but brains
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The But,-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliances
for high-class printing and the production of illus-
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new form —printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the onlyAus
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-flre
of national progress : it is the forceful summons
the crusade against the monopolies m a >
wealth, power, and privilege—the direct cause o
half the misery which now afflicts Brins
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, again,
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, an
against the exercise of any human author! y
which has not been granted by the people o
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will feaaessiy
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary v'tetiy
journal, is not loaded with a weight of “
transferred from the columns of a daily P k , g
issued from the same office. The Bullet .
not connected with any other paper, an
matter it contains is all specially prepared J
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the
by runners in the streets of every ,, aTjer g
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all P P
published south of the equator, and 1 -nopu-
Australasian publication which enjoys a t
larity unhampered by the political b ,j, a
that so closely restrict other journals
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is ®nchman
to the bushman of the Far North, the e8
of Central Australia, the pearl-shefier d
Straits, and the digger in the New
Ranges. A paper which is " 0 f the
most popular city publication and th ° | ly based,
ntelligent hushman must indeed he broacuy
The circulation of The Bulletin in
unrivalled by that of any other weW gold
and more than a hundred copies of ui a out .
Melbourne to one of any other paP e vP“ ofTHS
side that city. Perhaps the strongest
Bulletin’s popularity is found in• the p 0g tal
able fact—easily ascertainable from » n ' tra j fl 8ia,
official—that, of all journals issued ntJy re-
The Bulletin is tho on© most freq
mailed from one reader to another.
• v* of fill
The Bulletin is the journal which, o Eng ,
tralian journals, is most frequently q
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead and
other paper, because its vast mass 0 , brigb te8 “
specially-written reading matter » most
and best, its illustrations the clever® m0g t
artistic, and its policy the bold< L Austria 8
straightforward ever submitted to tn
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE. gj*
Subscription (payable strictly f jdva or On 0
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter,
Pound per annum. d to
Business communications t° I® toWb 0 ® 1
William Macleod, Managing.Direo » oOJDin ui»'
all remittances arc payable.
cations to be addressed to J. E. ABO


The Melbourne authorities have now seized
as blasphemous, among other books, ‘ ‘ Volney’s
Ruin of Empires,” a work that has almost
achieved the position of a classic. The consignee
was Jos. Symes’ step-daughter.
Coroner Youl, of Melbourne, says that the
man who takes a glass of beer does not drink in
the common acceptance of the term. We’ve
noticed it ourselves —he just opens his head, and
lets the liquor slide.
Anything that Dingman’s Electric Soap
fails to purify has not yet been discovered. It is
the one peculiar combination which performs its
mission in the extinction of dirt, grease, paint and
stains from any kind of clothing, and upsets the
old-time theory about washing-day miseries. It
is no longer necessary to boil garments to pulp or
rub them to rags to get the dirt out. Dingman’s
Electric Soap prolongs their usefulness, increases
their beauty, and materially assists the user in
attaining the length’ of days attributed to
patriarchs.
T>
K
J
o
M
7
/UenTs .
DELISSAk PHILLIPS
3 &«5 3tre.et.
;OLosa,ca. ! !EtesLc2L ! Read !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Eay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Slxillizxs
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland).
Sole Agents :
Victoria; A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Tasmanian; Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE GO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
—- —The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
CHUBB & PEAEGTE, Photographers,
(Late of Regent Street, London,)
“ Empire Galleries,” 483 A 484 George Street,
(over Beale’s), SYDNEY.
% _
V7STE have much pleasure in making reference to the
VV favorable notice of The Bulletin, Ist June, and
Daily Telegraph, Ist June, and at the same time in
thanking the public for the large amount of patronage
bestowed on us within so short a time. We are pleased to
say we are now overtaking the excess of work in all
departments, and trust to merit a continuance of the same
good opinions and favours.
%
Note our Moderate Prices:
Cabinets, 155.; Cartes-de-Visite, Is. 6d. per Doz.
JSIf" Portraits at Home, Groups, Parties, Houses, &c., a
Speciality. Photographed at Short Notice and at equally
Moderate Charges.
Medical.
14
-u
f Jm
3
> ,
IV
r
CVJ
/
infantile Loveliness
No mother who loves her children, who takes
pride in their beauty _.urity and health, and in
bestowing upon theiri a child’s greatest inherit-
ance, — a skin without blemish, and a body nour-
ished by pure blood, — should fail to make trial of
the Cuticuba Remedies.
Cuticuba, the great skin cure, and Cuticuba
Soap, an exquisite skin beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticuba Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula, from infancy to age.
Have been in the drug and medicine business
twenty-five years. Have been selling your Cuti-
cuea Remedies since they came West. They lead
all others in their line. We could not write nor
could you print all we have heard said in favor of
the Cuticuba Remedies. One year ago the Cuti-
CDBA and Soap cured a little girl in our house of
the worst sore head we even saw, and the Resolv-
ent and Cuticuba are now curing a young gentle-
man of a sore leg, while the physicians are trying
to have it amputated. It will save his leg and
perhaps his life. Too much cannot be said in
favor of Cuticuba Remedies.
B. B. SMITH &, BRO., Covington, Ky.
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticuba, 50o. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $1. Prepared by the Potteb
Deug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
ţ
Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Outicuba Soap.
When six months old, the left hand of our little
grandchild began to swell, and had every appear-
ance of a large boil. Wo poulticed it, but all to no
purpose. About five months after, it became a
running sore. Soon other sores formed. He then
had two of them on each hand, and as his blood
became more and more impure, it took less time
for them to break out. A sore came on the chin,
beneath the under lip, which was very offensive.
His head was one solid scab, discharging a great
deal. This was his condition at twenty-two months
old, when I undertook the care of him, his mother
having died when ho was a little more than a year
old, of consumption (scrofula of course). He could
walk a little, but could not get up if he fell down,
and could not move when in bed, having no
use of his hands. I immediately commenced
with the Coticuka Remedies, using all freely.
One sore after another healed, a bony matter
forming in each one of these five deep ones
just. before healing, which would finally grow
loose and were taken out; then they would heal
rapidly. One of these ugly bone formations I pre-
served. After taking a dozen and a half bottles he
was completely cured, and is now, at the age of six
years, a strong and healthy child,
Mrs. E. S. DRIGGS,
612 E. Clay St., Bloomington, 111.
J3®=* Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 60 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PINT
PLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cutictjba Soap.
Address: R TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
• «
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY B£ OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUTTHE COLONY.
j{)AWSO NS/j
DAWS OH’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEES & 00.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
FARMER’S EXCHANGE, ALBURY.
PA. BUCKHORN & CO., Produce Mer-
-9 CHANTS, have always on hand large
supplies of Oats, Chaff, Potatoes, Onions, Butter,
Cheese, and Eggs.
Chaff in any quantity sold in trucks at Albury
Station according to sample.
Orders Promptly Attended to.
“What is Home without a Pictueb?”
Xj. BEEITASGOUI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Makar,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Out to any Design.
The Unlucky Man.
A DESCRIPTION OF HIM BY A WOMAN
WHO HAS BEEN THERE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
j help the woman who marries an unlucky
®° ( The first Baron Rothschild said he would
® an ' lnoff ingly. have in his employment a per-
neV6r f.l i unlucky man : ill-luck is an insidious
almost imperceptible in its first stages,
be conquered by force of will and per-
®d C oe but, like all other diseases, when neg-
becomes chronic. The unlucky man
leCt6 ’llv starts with a good temper—being always
satisfied with himself—a good diges-
■ and a good wife. He has managed to marry
Iloll ’ rare-minded, unassuming, and industrious,
good-looking girl, who implicitly believes
I n storv of being unappreciated, and he tells her
h t with her for his guardian angel he will do
litter things, he has yearnings after the Infinite
d divings after the Unfathomable, although he
Overpays cash. His idea of domestic happiness
II married life means a full larder and an empty
m rs ery Does he want a wife for companionship,
Empathy, and love ? No, it’s to sweep the house
"d m ake the beds, to darn the socks and cook the
food to nurse him in sickness, and wait on him
and ’coddle him in sorrow, to stand as a buffer
between him and poverty, duns, and debt; that is
what he wants a wife for.
• * *
He is lavish with boon companions, but
mean where love and duty demand generosity.
His chief characteristic is a reckless improvidence,
mid a selfish pursuit of enjoyments independent
of consequences. He runs rapidly through his
means(whenhe has any), and calls upon his relatives
in a friendly way for assistance. He can always
see the opportunities Jones, Brown, and Robin-
son have had of making money, and what he
would have accomplished, had he been in their
place, instead of letting these opportunities slip
past, as they have done ! Relatives have helped
him over and over again for the sake of his family,
but he will never steadily toe the line without
which no business, large or small, can be kept
together. There is never a day out of the 365 in
which he has not some grand scheme on hand for
mating a fortune without work ; in his own esti-
mation—and in that of his wife, alas ! poor soul -
no one ever lived who was half as smart, and the
rest of the world shall soon be shown what superior-
skill and a clever man can accomplish single-
handed. As for failing in any of these schemes
it is quite impossible, and when at last these airy
projects in practice all go wrong, and he finds out
that the world is neither so silly nor so easily pre-
vailed upon to second his views as he imagines, he
still considers it’s not his fault ; he has not had a
fair trial and somehow or other the off-ohance
always hits him. In critical moments he contrives
to do precisely the wrong thing at the wrong time,
and thus earns for himself a reputation for harm-
less folly, which is more blameable in the eyes of
society than many positive crimes.
* # *
What fool was it who wrote “ Poverty
is no Crime?” It is easy to say it is no crime ; if
it were men and women would not be so ashamed
of it, but it is a blunder, and punished as such. It
urges one to commit every sin under the sun, and
few there are indeed that cannot be laid at the
door of that foulest of curses. A poor man ox-
woman is despised and pitied all the world over.
They are on a lower platform than their neigh,
hours. Appearances are everything as the world
goes, and the man who will walk down the street
with the most notorious scamp in the city, if he
be well and fashionably-dressed, will slink up a
back lane to say a few words to an estimable
though seedy-looking friend.
* * *
The iron law that i ells upon crowds is ac-
tive in our midst and crushes the unlucky man
remorselessly. All clerical work is shockingly
overcrowded, and the unlucky man stands no
chance in that direction. The type-writer is
gradually taking this sort of work from men and
Putting it in the hands of women, who work so
much more cheaply, and for whom it is admirably
adapted. Many of our large business houses have
female clerks, cashiers, canvassers, and collectors.
Women have successfully entered into professions
and trades that were once exclusively men’s,
fhere are female lawyers, doctors, commercial
travellers, bookbinders, watchmakers, photo-
graphers, and house-painters, and it is a well-
authenticated fact that professional prize-fighting
18 a bsolutely the only industry in which the suppxly
does not exceed the demand. But this makes no
opening for the unlucky man, as he is physically
unfitted for a prize-fighter. There is one excepj-
ti°n to even this rule. We are told that a fine
ead of virgin gold-coloured hair will bring from
°rty to a hundred pounds, according to its length
an luxuriance, and it may be pleasing to hear
J rat there are orders, booked in advance, for all
at can be produced for the next five years. The
u ucky man’s sex, however, unfortunately pre-
heats him sitting down and earning money in this
easy manner.
* # *
' mUS k a s reat man Y unlucky men
?. * na > anf l for them the law has made pro-
rsiou, by allowing the happy father to borrow
°ney °n the strength of having a son, but no
ue wx 1 advance a halfpenxxy if he has half-a-dozexx
> Gei j' le f° rmer is respxmsible for his
ers ebts to the third generation, the latter
aufi JnSl ' 3de r hebts °f her husband,
wJ 3 a woman was responsible for her
at x 8 debts - for B he is always to be found
ouse, to be dunned, and worried, and
threatened out of her life—until the Married
Woman’s Real Property Act passed. Now she is
seldom responsible for more than the provision of
half-a-dozen children and herself.
* * *
The male emu is the nurse, and the un-
lucky man will at last have to take to a like occu-
pation in household domestic economy. The emu
appears to be curiously exceptional as regards the
domestic division of labour. The hen begins laying
about the end of October or beginning of Novem-
ber, and in about six weeks completes her clutch of
twenty or more eggs. In the meantime the cock
begins to sit, and the eggs subsequently laid are
deposited at his side by the hen. He then
stretches forth his foot and draws them under him;
he not only hatches the eggs, but does all the sub-
sequent nursing, and has to thrash his wife con-
tinually, as she attacks him furiously, and would,
apparently, kill the chicks if she could get at them.
This state of things is all the fruits of the emu
being too good a husband to his wife —so different
from the unlucky man ! Did he but once or twice
leave the eggs to get cold, while he stepped to the
public-house round the corner to see a friend and
argue about Protection and Preetrade, Mrs. Emu
would in future take this domestic duty to her
own bosom, while he would be required only to
contribute to the support of his young and inter-
esting family.
LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.


Martin Loughlin, of Melbourne, is doing
Japan just now. So is J. F. M‘Carron, of
M Canon, Bird and Co.
Captain Raabe was a man whose name had
weight in the French cavalry. He was a tall man,
belonging to the middle-age trooper type. With
military qualities of the highest kind, be had a
singular hearing, a savage sort of misanthropy,
and a cynical tongue, which stood in the way of
promotion. When he was in the Sixth Lancers,
on garrison duty at Commercy, one of his comrades
brought his father to dine with him at the officers’
mess, a man of humble position, and unpretenti-
ously dressed. Captain Raabe, considering that
this guest had not been fitly received, gave expres-
sion to his opinion, saying that, if the executioner
of Commercy had come in evening-dress, he would
have had a better reception. The officers demur-
ring, he made no rejoinder, but shortly afterward
came to mess with a guest whose dress was
irreproachable. Every one lavished attentions on
the unknown. When dinner was over, Captain
Raabe, raising his glass, proposed the health of
“The executioner of Commercy.” —Paris Figaro.
Editor Bulletin, —One hears a lot about
the pastoralists being the backbone of N.S. Wales.
Have you room for a few statistics anent this
backbone, so far as the Western division is con-
cerned : —316 Western squatters rent 39,452,854
acres and pay for this enormous extent of country
some £166,804 4s. 2d. per annum, being at the rate
of one penny and one-seventeenth of a farthing
per acre for the first term of five years, about a
penny-farthing for the second term, and a trifle
over a penny-halfpenny for the third term of a 15
years’lease in all. This, mind you, for a secure
term of 15 years for the best half of their runs to
he picked by themselves. And yet people talk about
rack-renting the squatters 1 For this rental
the squatter has no residential conditions to
fulfil. As a matter of fact, more often than
not the “western squatter” is a mere figure
of speech, meaning thereby a pastoral syn-
dicate, land company, bank, or other financial
corporation. It is only when pressure is sought to
Ibe placed on the Legislature that the “ western
pioneer ”is trotted out. Out west one meets with
“ supers,” managers, and overseers, but seldom
with the bosses. These latter live in Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, or at “home.” Now, although
the squatters pay as above for the “ picked ” land,
the homestead lessees have to pay far more pro-
portionately. 426 homestead lessees pay £28,251
17s. 3d. for 4,095,556 acres, which they are compelled
to fence in and reside on. This means an average
rental of one penny-halfpenny and two-thirds of a
farthing per annum for the first five years, with the
same progressive increase as in the case of squatters,
averaging about 2d. per acre for the whole term.
It has been said in the Legislative Assembly that
homestead leases were taken out of the best lands
in the Western division ; as a matter of fact they
have been taken out of the best lands left after
the 316 squatters have nobbled the best half —
and even then the homestead men have had to
accept boundaries as modified by the Land Boards.
It by no means follows that a homestead man will
get the precise boundary he applies for ; very often
he has to take a strip he does not want, be-
cause his original application, if granted, would
leave a piece insufficient for another holding. Then
again he often has to pay cash for fencing and im-
provements that he really does not want. _ But, as
he takes the land, he has to take the fencing as it
stands, although perhaps the line of fence as
erected is no manner of use to him. With all
these drawbacks the homestead men seem to make
a living, so it is fair to presume that the pastoral
lessees must make excellent business out of their
huge blocks at such nominal rentals. —Yours,
Backblockeb.
Tobacconists,
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
»
PIPES.
the best in the world.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & GO-
-231 Clarence Street.
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
MELACHRINO'!
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO .
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO^
M. Melachrino & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
All the Courts and Embassies of Europe;
ALL THE
Leading British and Continental Clubs
and Regimental Messes.
Have the Largest Sale in the World! —
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best.
Sole Agents:
W ARrtEKT & R.OWKT.
14 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 5 Cigarette . .. 85/- per 1000; 9/- per 100.
„ No. 8 66/- „ 7/- „
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carnage,
will receive prompt attention.
Business Announcements.
T .EOMARD GrWYKr,
General Business & Hotel Broker,
No. 8, Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite G.P.O).
—Nothing but Straightforward Business Done.—
No Sale No Charge.
G-AATY’nST.
MedicaL,
JQSEPHSOrS OllTUfilT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an rticle as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. Na Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green I
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We recommed these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned : .
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility' feeling of nervousness,- weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROM S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROME’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflcted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
v/i
Hotel-keepers all keep Bow’s Assorted Bitters
containing :
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS.
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Sole Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
43, 45, 47 GEORGE -STREET. SYDNEY
Business Announcements.
HILL, CLARK & 00.,
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS,
STOCK & STATIOU AGEKTS,
HAVING unrivalled facilities for the Storage and Display of Wool, either in Bulk or Sample,
and having largely enjoyed the support of Wool-growers for so many years, appeal with every
confidence for a continuance of their clients’ favours. The season bids fair to be exceptionally good,
and prices realised will doubtless prove highly satisfactory to growers.
The SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
is each year proving increasingly attractive to English., Continental and American Mar.u.
facturers, who prefer making their purchases here at first hand. Should owners, however, desire it_
we are prepared to
SHIP TTHsTIIDIEIR, LIBPEAL 0-A.SP3I APVAHCS
to our Agents. Bor all wools offered but not sold merely a nominal charge is made.
Regular Sales held of Wool, Sheepskins, Marsupial Skins, Hides, Tallow, Leather, Grain,
and all Station Produce. Bi-weekly Sales of Stock at Homehush and Corporation Yards.
Large and Extensive Paddock Accommodation at Homebush, Biacktown, and
Dubbo for both Sheep and Cattle.
All Consignments receive prompt and personal attention upon arrival. Way-Bills and all further
information on application.
Wool Warehouses - CIECULAPw QUAY, SYDNEY.
Head Office, 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Branch Office at DUBBO
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus: —
I
TJSS
LIEBIB COKIPA
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
Miscellaneous.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers h r w they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade,
Country Agents war ded—Stationers.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FISH! FISH! FISH!
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
To Pish. Consumers in Town & Country.
WE ARE PREPARED TO SUPPLY
Pish Frozen in Solid Blocks of Ice,
the blocks containing 301 b., 151 h., and 101 b. assorted fish.
Price, 3d., 4d., and sd. per lb., according to the kinds of
fish desired.
ICE GRATIS! ICE GRATIS!
Blocks delivered free at Railway Station, packed so as to
carry to any part of the colony , for 2s. 6d. per block extra.
Instructions sent with each package how to treat the
fish so that they will keep for several days. The fish are
obtained direct from the fishing ground, and guaranteed
perfectly fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will toe Forwarded on receipt
of Post-office Order for the Amount.
All orders to be sent to the Works
Kensington St., Sydney,
T. D. KYLE ... Manager.
THOMAS ROBS,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Havannah Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor de BonltO ”
Brand of Cigars and “ Emolre Cigarettes.”
Miscellaneous.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
S 3 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street,
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CUKE GUARANTEED.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can he ascertained or
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
WALTER IBCODPIH],
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality —Pure-hred and Pedigree Stock of all de
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-hred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to he addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
J£EEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE SADDLE
Company, Limited.
Factory and Office : 227 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
(Late 245.)
ť
NEW STYLE OF TREE.
The Company is now prepared to manufacture ail
kinds of Saddles. Any infringement of the patent will be
nroseouted. No Saddle genuine without our Trade MarK
y ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
Ipffl
1
EUREKA
\S
ELECTRIC
BELT!
e&iSk
VV'
N*\
<M\
-1
s-s
/
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL,
Diseases of the nervous system:.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, cqntaiuing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp far
postage.
Address;— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P, 0,, Sydney,
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.8.0.P., M.R.0.5., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN—
Chronic, Nervous and Grenito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 26 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston & Elizabeth Sts J,
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a_Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Ilaiiual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases—price,
3s. 6d. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
'PHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
p o ..i.: nr . * The Public are requested to notice the
WftUulUli ! words, 23?“ Hose s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Hose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
ofl on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
K3T* Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
E R V O U S DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, Or BY POST HERR EASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain-
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address —
Herr Rass-Mussen, “Roselund Villa,’*
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OP
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst :
“I have tested a sample of the ‘Magic Meal’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenic and have
to report, aftea a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
Injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon:—“ I
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 35.; 141 b. ss. 6d. ; 561 b., 18s.
6d. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. XI. PHILLIPS,
81 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ŧ
'PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be wo#th a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lcst complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” t*>s ifled
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and «ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.8.-—Pull directions are given with each box.
Eucalypte OILSa
THE TREE OF LIFE.
The only pnre Eucalypte In the World,
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURbi for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the < hest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancels,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamondra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot —227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
Victory Ointment*#.
CONSULT
CORE & HOGG
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases <JT the Genlto-UrinaryOr„
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, OORBETT’S BUILDINGS, comer of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
COLSOLTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements.
£ 2O EUCKBOAED BUGGIES £2O
BEST IN THE WOBID
tor £2O.
/ 1\
The largest Coach-
Works in Australia.
No. 45—Turnout Seat—£3s.
COI»E <Sc NEWMAN,
BOGGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
HARRIS’S Missirg Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance Kinyr or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private De’ecrive Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE.
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF ROMISE,
and all i inds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr,
B arris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
8.8. H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedit ion and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address: 53 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY*
“ For Framing a Picture Heat and Well.”
* x :x
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-St., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Hhotos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges,
special attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
t:
n
HAKUrACTUREHS
» IMPORTERS OF
i udk< i_»
HATS CAPS Ac
r— *qr. »
438 CEORCE ST
3YDMEY
f LeuartCers
$
\As>
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AILTHE
fc'NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
V-
r
(
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
INC
*/
PO
MANUFACTURED 6Y /
James Chamon JfartovrS*' J? v=jl
£x/ cIII SttecfAjd 4 /&nr/cge/>ero
Sold.
y/\>s'ir/ceep
Business Announcements.
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
t
Bass’ Pale A.le,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents :
BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CO.,
SYDNEY.
M. B. Poster and Sons,
LONDON,
“BUGLE ” BRAND ALE & STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
_ I*. having come to our knowledge that ALE and
STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palme i cff
on the public ;
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and
to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER and
SONS to this colony bear their name and
address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer pur
porting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be
esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the
frauds.
A Liberal Reward will he given for information
leading to conviction of the offenders.
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY,
Agents for Messrs. H. B. Foster and Sons,
Ask for kupper’s elberfeld
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
O. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &c
Cooperage :
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market-st., Sydney.
Hotels.
£Nj>
oO_w
* *
BOWDEN Sjljßtifflfik
NGIfl
ZOO’S/STIOIESIKr’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C. BOWDEN .. Proprietor.
P
RINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
nearOperaHonse, Bourke-st.,East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.
WBSTBH3XT HOTEL,
Warrnamtoool, Victoria,
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. tS" Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
I/lvery and letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thoa.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Arc Reduced from 30s. to 31s.
249 PsTT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
X
Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather. 'Si
' x
I
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
IjOndLon. Fashior. g,
AND
Fresh Gcrods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
S3
MASON
BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade arid Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS <k SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
SORIN AND
Cognac.
CO.’S
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MEIVIN and SON’S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. R. ZORKIN,
IMPORTER OF
WIITES, x SPIRITS, x BEER S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Danville’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennessy’s, Maktell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
£3P“ The Best Port and Sherry W'ines and Champagnes. JgiP” AH Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Ts£fyolcsale anti jingle Bottle ’Departments, ?82i anfl j^yflney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
) x (
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE; GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
nXTETVV
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
Now Supply the General Pnblic as well as the Trade.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
3*3«SVlNn!ii
.ssiavt x
iP
NIIYS
s*«sna<};
feaeinu
SNMOHB
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOE —
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 ! Amsterdam 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. T. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxfoed-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
GENUINE SWEDISH MADE
\JC CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C. -A-. PALSTEDT,
SOLE AGENT FOB AUSTRALIA,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR SALE. —A Quantity of Second-Hand
Newspaper Type in Case and Bulk. Eor
particulars apply to the Printer, Bulletin office.
FRY’
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
Tlie Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de H6te at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Sirs. Kilminsteb to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
3&9Lxrs. K i i OlEx.rexxc3.oix Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites. First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONS - - Late of New Zealand.
liipeeial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
—-S s}- —
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
JR.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and produces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
A pure, non-gritty Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Preckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE *.im.
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS'
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
, LIMITED,
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 h.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
croimi pumps,
2" to 40" discharge,
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Xjatb.es.
BE MBm
ta, &a
ţ
VIKOINfi ENGINES.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
FLOUR-MILL ENGINES.
ENGINES
FOE
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubular Boilers.
CORNISH BOILERS*
Aa, Ac.
We invite all thoae requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to trive delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms, 8 3
180, 181, X 33 & 135 HA.Y STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
