

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
At the Melbourne Centennial International Exhibition, 1888-9, the American Waltham Watch
Company obtained the FIRST AWARD for their New Non-Magnetic Watches.
The following Report is by the Chairman of the Jury on Horology at the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, wherein the First Award for the Waltham Non-Magnetic Watches is recommended: —
“WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.—Non-Magnetic Watches. —Having obtained further information and the results of some good practical tests of some non-magnetic watches of this
exhibit, I have now the honour to report further upon it. Question having arisen as to similarity of the balance of this watch and that of Palliard’s, the exhibitors obtained the opinion of an expert,
who examined one of the Waltham Non-Magnetic Watches, as web as one of Rotheram’s Watches with Palliard’s non-magnetic balance. This expert (Mr. Kahan) reports as follows :— ‘ I have received
from Messrs. Robert Beeston and Co., agents for the Waltham Watch Company, a non-magnetic watch, for the purpose of reporting to you whether the same is identical with those known as Palliard
and Co.’s. I have examined watch No. 3,292,923, lever escapement, keyless (Riverside). The balance (bi-metallic compensated), hair-spring (Breguet), lever, pallets, and ruby roller, are made of such
metals that are not liable to become magnetised, and consequently these watches are well adapted for the purpose for which they are made. The balance and hairspring are not identical with those
known as Palliard’s.’
“ The exhibitors have also forwarded to me a report from Captain Joseph, who carried one of these watches with him while occupied about the dynamos in the electric lighting department. This
report is as follows ‘At first the watch had a gaining rate of 30 seconds per day. After wearing it for some days, and finding this rate fairly constant, the watch was used in timing tests of dynamos.
The rate then changed to 90 seconds per day, losing. I then regulated it so as to bring it to a gaining rate of 20 seconds per day. This being constant for six days, the watch was again used in the
dynamo-room, and without affecting the rate. I have worn it constantly, and it has been brought several times in contact with dynamos at work, having a magnetic field which I think would have
ruined an ordinary movement; but its rate still remains gaining about 20 seconds per day. ’
“I have also a report of a series of careful experiments with one of these watches from Mr. R. C. Fletcher, engineer in charge of electric light instalment, the result of which shows that these watches ,
after being laid on the poles of the large dynamos at work for one or two minutes, and afterwards regulated and then exposed again for twenty or twenty-five minutes, did not appreciably alter their rates. Mr.
Fletcher was so pleased with the results that he purchased one of the watches for his own use among electric lighting machinery.
“In consideration of these reports in connection with former trials and time tests, I recommend that the Waltham Company be given a FIRST AWARD for their NEW
NON-MAGNETIC WATCH.
R. C. J. ELLERY, E.R.S., Chairman.”
The following is a List of Awards gained by the American Waltham Watches at International Exhibitions ,
7HILASSLFHIA, 1576, Tour Frise Medals; PAR'S, 1870, Sold Medal j SYBM, 1830, Sold Medal, with Two Special and Tour First Prizes) MELBOURNE, 1381, Two Sold Medals;
M ORLEANS, 1888,.Five Prize Medals; INVENTIONS EZBBITIOf, LONDON, 1300, Sold Medal; MELBOURNE CENTiNNIAI INHIBITION, 1333-9, First Award, Ron-MagneticWatches
Constituting a record unequalled by any Exhibitors in Horology.
Extract from the London Horologxcal Journal, July, 1889: —“The Great Northern Railway Company have ordered Twenty NON-MAGNETIC Watches of the American Waltham Watch
Company for the use of the guards on the Scotch express.”
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES, GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS’ CONTRACT.
TENDERS having been called for the supply of WATCHES for use upon the New South Wales Government Railways for the ensuing year, the preference was given to the celebrated
RAILWAY GUARDS’ WATCHES of the AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY. This is the Ninth Consecutive Year during which the WALTHAM WATCHES have been
chosen by the New South Wales Government as the best and most reliable ; timekeepers for railway purposes. WALTHAM WATCHES are used by the Government Railway Officials in New
South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, and also upon all the Great Railway Lines of the United Kingdom and the Indian State Railways.
WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Sole Australian Agency: WALTHAM BUILDINGS, BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
POLICIES issued under the Ordinary, Moclified Tonline and Mortuary Dividend. Systems.
BONUS YEAR. —Books will be closed on 31st December, 1889, and the Quinquennial Investigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of Bonus.
Federated Squatters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CXIR.OTJXj-A-IR. SYDNEY.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Workers
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
EON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
HILL, CLARK & CO.,
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS,
STOCSZ & STATIOU AGEIsTTS,
HAVING unrivalled facilities for the Storage and Display of Wool, either in Bulk or Sample,
and having largely enjoyed the support of Wool-growers for so many years, appeal with every
confidence for a continuance of their clients’ favours. The season bids fair to be exceptionally good,
and prices realised will doubtless prove highly satisfactory to growers.
The SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
is each year proving increasingly attractive to English., Continental and American Manu.
factnrers, who prefer making their purchases here at first hand. Should owners, however, desire it,
we are prepared to
SHIP TJISriDIEIR. LIBERAL C-ASH A3DVANTCE
to our Agents. For all wools offered but not sold merely a nominal charge is made.
Regular Sales held of Wool, Sheepskins, Marsupial Skins, Hides, Tallow, Leather, Grain,
and all Station Produce. Bi-weekly Sales of Stock at Homcbush and Corporation Yards.
IS? 3 Large and Extensive Paddock Accommodation at Ho me bush, Black town, and
Dubbo for both Sheep and Cattle.
All Consignments receive prompt and personal attention upon arrival. Way-Bills and all further
information on application.
Wool Warehouses - CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Head Office, 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Branch Office at DUBBO
9(/f
O Jtj
I
L a, S i
T Co
A
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 KENT STREET (Two Boors from Market Street), SYDNEY,
—IMPORT—
ZEE I <3- H-C Xj .A. S S I XT D I A U & CHIUa
TEAS
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d., Is. 9d. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Pree) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
[Saturday, October 19, 1889.


TO BA
CO
m
iiJ
a /'-■
'p
a
o
-O
O
5?
V
SIR ROGER
so
ys
r*
k
HIXSONS
Or.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
“ Can’t B Beat.”
‘CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “ Can’t B Beat.”
Something New ! Something New !
Tkc s|lVkag(!, “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
Smoker's Companions
containing the following; -
lib. Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t E Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American To oacco
11b. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 1 H S Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
i.lb. Long Cut, American
Delivered Free at Redlern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. _ Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved 1 50 per cent, saved ! Note the address:
MICK SIMMONS
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarket, Sydney.
B
e
R I T T E N B E R G & C O.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynynrd Mjiaarc.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers —
J. & B. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White Rose" on “Golden
Lyre," with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MABKET STEEET,
SYDNEY,
WILLI A.MS’
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
<j : yl
Broad, Toa CaKes, Pastry, &0.,
ARE
- Light,. Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH , L f
Williams’ Australian ITeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations..
Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound.
k
AUt
jin coftsequence sf Imitations 0/ THE WORC ESTERS HI RE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers tqe that the Label on , every bcttlt
bears their Signature thus—
*tc/tll oJF JtetrigtruU) WOK CESTERS HERE
'SA UCE'it geftuiru\
Ask for LE A' and'PER R INS* Sauce, and see Name? on Wrapper, Label, Settle and
Stopper, Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester Crvtse and
Stlack&fll, London, ire,, ire.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughput the Wo fid.
WILLIAM — CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
BALDWIN DRIT AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
EEAXOIXT SQUEEZERS, &c., &c.
McHLean Bros. Sz Eigg, Ltd-,
513 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,”
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated By “The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists,
1.. HOPKINS and PHII. MAY.
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents —Victorian : A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers. George Street,
Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10-No. 505.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1889.
Price, 6d.
1 NO k
k
/j
--JfoJ?
On the Wrong Look.


The Bulletin
The national Australian newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors t BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 2i PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 1% 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
*' Correspondence" column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ice
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every iveek
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
7j^sxxlle&rL.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1889.
One Man, One Vote.
The weak complaisance with which the
people of New South Wales have permitted
themselves to be fooled from the time of the
passing of the Electoral Act of 1858 is
utterly surprising. At that time they were
humbugged by declarations that the boon of
manhood suffrage had been conferred upon
them. They swallowed the lie without even
a spasm of their intellectual The
uncoated fiction has been administered
periodically ever since, as a regular prescrip-
tion in the pharmacopoeia of political
quackery, and with humble confidence the
people l\ave kept on swallowing it without
thought of investigation. They were satis-
fied with the knowledge that it was quite
true that, as they were perpetually being re-
minded, every man was entitled to a vote.
Nobody was at the pains to point out to them
that although every man had one vote many
men had two or more, and in consequence of
a strange insensibility this peculiar circum-
stance never seemed to strike the people
themselves as possessing any importance
whatever. Thirty-one years passed thus,
political impostors and journalistic impostors
making common cause to delude the people
with mocking congratulations upon their
alleged untrammelled political power in con-
sequence of their enjoyment of manhood
suffrage, while all the time the propertied
class quietly controlled the election of mem-
bers of the Legislative Assembly, just as
suited themselves, by the exercise of the
extra votes which they possessed by reason
of their freehold, leasehold, or shop tenures,
# # #
The existing Electoral Act, then, was passed
in 1858, and conferred upon the people the
spurious manhood suffrage which hood-
winked them. It was not until the close of
1888, 30 years later, that the bubble was
legislatively pricked by Mr. Traill, one of
the members for South Sydney, who, having
in the course of his canvass had ample evi-
dence that the mass of the population in
South Sydney were earnest Protectionists,
observed with surprise that on the test of
the poll the voting was nearly equal for Pro-
tection and for Freetrade. He put his
finger on the cause immediately, and from
the hustings announced to the electors that
while he was satisfied the people of South
Sydney had voted for Protection, the shops,
the allotments of land, and the houses had
rolled up a heavy parcel of votes against the
popular cause. Following this up, Mr.
Traill’s first act in the Assembly was to in-
troduce a Bill to abolish plural voting. The
Freetrade Ministry recognised the destruc-
tive effect which the enactment of such a
measure would have upon their cause, and
obstructed the Bill by every device. The
Conservative section among the Protec-
tionists gave but a languid and formal sup-
port, Between the active antagonism of the
one party and the sham support of a section
of the other, obstacles to the consideration
of the measure were dexterously interposed,
and it never reached a second reading.
* # #
But if the propertied-class flatter them-
selves that they have made an end of the
business, they labour under a profound mis-
apprehension. The people at large have at
last got a firm grip of the principle involved,
and will never rest now until they possess
manhood suffrage in reality, and smash the
sham which has swindled them of their full
rights only too long. If Mr. Traill should
prove too weak a matt to carry the measure,
the people will find a man who is strong
enough. We greatly misinterpret the
sense of the community if they have not
made the reform their own business a
business which they are resolved to have
accomplished. The management which
prevented the second reading of the Bill
in the Assembly effectually stopped Mr.
Traill’s mouth in that respect. But
without any exposition of that kind, the
people have been perfectly competent, once
their attention was directed to the fraud per-
petrated upon them by the existing Elections
Act, with its false pretence of manhood-
suffrage, to perceive how the swindle
operated, and to recognise how it could be
frustrated. They have apprehended the
truth that there is no practical difference
between an arrangement which provides for
some men having two votes while others
have but one, and a system under which
some men have one vote and others have
none at all. The thing is too simple in its
essence to permit of any confusion of mind,
once people give thought to it at all. If
Jones, Smith, and each having
one vote record it in favour of Brown,
while Green, Taylor, and Bell each hav-
ing two votes record them for White, it is
obvious that White will be elected by a
majority of three votes, which is precisely
what would happen if Jones, Smith, and
Robinson had no vote at all, while Green,
Taylor, and Bell had each one vote. In
either instance, Jones, Smith, and Robin-
son would be impotent. The only difference
would be that in the first stated case they
would be in a position to amuse themselves
by recording a vote, and could fancy they
were exerting a vast deal of influence, while
Green, Taylor, and Brown would laugh in
their sleeves at their innocence and their
ineffective folly. It is true that a man can
only record one vote in any one constituency ;
but under the present system Messrs. Green
Taylor, and Bell have the privilege of
voting in every constituency where they have
an allotment each or a qualifying share
in an allotment ; while Brown, Jones
and Robinson’s voting powers are strictly
confined to the constituencies in which
they reside. In short, a man so for-
tunate as to have property, and, therefore,
electoral qualification in, say, fifty or
sixty constituencies, would, by reason of
the non - simultaneity of the elections
and the rapidity of railway-travelling, be
enabled to destroy the vote of fifty or sixty
non-propertied men in fifty or sixty con-
stituencies. Thus, a poor man is an elector
and only an elector ; a rich man may be an
elector sixty times over.
# * *
The people of New South Wales, though
apathetic, are not quite asleep, and in future
any alleged representative who shows a
disposition to trifle with the popular
right to equal suffrage will have to
reckon with his constituents on that head.
The probable expedient now will be some
pretence of conceding all that is demanded,
while means are concerted to rob the con-
cession of all actual effect. Although the
Freetrade and mock Liberal Association re-
fused outright to include One Man, One Vote
in its programme, it is most probable that,
once it is perceived that the “lower orders
of society,” as Vice-President M‘Millan
styles the bulk of the population, mean to
have the full value of their votes, some
complicated Electoral Bill will be shoved
forward, ostensibly including the principle
of the single vote, but containing sly pro-
visoes which shall effectually neutralise the
pretended concession. This is the device
chiefly to be apprehended next session. Or
possibly the Government will formally intro-
duce an Electoral Bill, really providing for
the abolition of plural voting, so as to block
Mr. Traill’s declared intention of re-intro-
ducing his measure. In such case it is difficult
to see how the Government can be out-
manoeuvred. They have free and exclusive
control of the management of all business
which they introduce, and can with the
utmost facility arrange so that any measure
they choose shall be kept back and slaugh-
tered at the close of a session. The people
of N.S. Wales will do well to watch the
manoeuvres of the Government in relation to
this matter. They shall not lack assist-
ance in following the windings of a tortuous
policy in this particular. The Bulletin
will attend to that part of the business.
* * *
It would be interesting to learn upon
what grounds anyone would pretend to
justify the continuance of the property vote.
Unluckily there is no' clue to the possible
arguments, as no one appears to have suffi-
cient effrontery to attempt to support the
practice. Even in the bad old days prior to
the first Reform Bill in Great Britain there
was small pretence of reasoning respecting
the merits of manhood suffrage. The idea
was simply thrust aside on the pretence
that it was too preposterous—too utterly
monstrous—for serious consideration. The
great anxiety even of the advocates for the
Reform Bill was lest they should be sus-
pected of contemplating anything so frantic.
Lord Biiqxjgham, for example, a stout Re-
former, when petitions for reform of the re-
presentation were presented to the Com-
mons in 1817, thus declared his sentiments :
“ I am anxious to take this early opportunity
of declaring my decided opposition to the
principle of Universal Suffrage, because it is
my em ire conviction that, if that measure
were adopted, it would operate to destroy
the Parliament instead of reforming it, and
to overthrow the Constitution instead of
amending it, while it must serve to shake
the universal security of property. I am
decidedly adverse to those wild, vague, im-
practicable propositions (and, even if prac-
ticable, so pernicious), which are so loudly
talked of.” Lord Grey and Lord John
Russell, in later years, defined the same sort
of language as indefinite vapourings and never
made an attempt to discuss the matter in
its essence. “Property ” was the pass-word
then as now. The opponents of the com-
plete enfranchisement of the masses hear
always but one dominant word under all
conditions. Like Tennyson’s “ Northern
Farmer,” who heard the mystic syllables
even in the beat of his cob’s hoofs on the
hard highway—
Doan’t ’ee year ma harse’s feet,
As he canters awa-ay ?
Proputty, proputty, proputty!
That’s what I hear them sa-ay.
Ever the sacred rights of the King, to which
the rights of the Man are to be subordinated.
The wonder is that the flagrant rascality has
been so long and so tamely endured. Ben-
jamin Franklin once put the case very
tersely. “ If a man owning an ass have two
votes,” he said, “and, losing the ass, lie
retain but one vote, it is clear that one vote
belonged to the ass, not to the man.” Simi-
larly-adapting the illustration to the con-
ditions prevalent in New South Wales—if a
man, living in one electorate, own a bit of
ground in another and have two votes, and,
losing the bit of ground, retains but one
vote, it is obvious that one of the votes be-
longed, not to the man, but to the allotment.
* * #
Although it is difficult to identify a man
who will deliberately argue against manhood
suffrage, one can catch a grip of an argument
current on the subject. The man who achieves
property, it is said, gives thereby evidence
of his superior intelligence, and is entitled to
; a greater share in the conduct of public
affairs than the man who has not the quali-
ties which lead to success in Ills own business.
This argument is rotten from the ground up.
The mere faculty of acquisitiveness is no in-
dication of aptitude for public trust. It is
just as likely to indicate absolute disqualifi-
cation. Acquisitiveness is one of the
meanest and most sordid qualities of the
mind. It is almost indistinguishable from
selfishness, and of all the properties of the
mind which are most desirable for public
functions, disinterestedness is one of the
chiefest and most desirable. The man
whose tendency is to grab all in his private
career is exceedingly apt to carry the same
disposition into public affairs. Fortunes
may be gained by recourse to usury,
chicanery, and greed, but these are surely
no guarantees of superior fitness for the
exercise of the franchise. Property can be
acquired even by actual theft, by fraudulent
insolvencies. It will scarcely be pretended
that a bushranger who, in the morning, is
entitled to a single vote for a member of
Parliament, ought to have two votes in the
evening because he has stuck up a coach and
is the richer by a couple of hundred pounds.
If wealth and virtue, landowning and know-
ledge, renting a shop, and public spirit were
convertible terms, then there would be sense
in the existing electoral law, which enables a
man with a house, a man with a suburban
allotment, or a man with a counter for the
sale of fish to exercise twice as much in-
fluence in the affairs of the colony as a man
without these appendages.
Fashions in Suicides.
Nothing shows so clearly the radical difference
between the mental bias of the sexes as their
fashions. Those of women are rapid, general, and
pronounced, while with men fashion changes
rarely and gradually. Nor are the vagaries of
fashion confined to dress. There are fashions in
immorality as well as in boots, styles in dissipation
as well as in hats, and popular forms of suicides
as well as of bustles. In all these .the peculiarities
of the sexes show out, but in nothing more con-
spicuously than in suicides. When a'man makes
up his mind to bring his life to a speedy termina-
tion the chances are two to five that he will hang
himself. Hanging with men has always been a
popular form of death, and though sometimes run
very close by other modes that are temporarily in
favour, it eventually regains its position. Men
are creatures of education, and it is doubtless not
a little owing to the fact of hanging being the use
to which the Government puts its murderers and
ravishers that this system of self-destruction is
popular. If judicial hanging were abolished and
any other form of suicide, either by chance or
otherwise, obtained the lead, then it is probable
that the popularity of self-hanging would per-
manently decline. After hanging comes shooting.
At first sight it appears peculiar that shooting
should be so common, as in order to perforin the
operation a man must have a gun or a revolve •
and comparatively few possess these weapons’
But when a man makes up his mind for felo-de-seh
is not inclined to stop at a trifle to procure th
necessary weapon, and it is, therefore, quite ?' 6
ordinary occurrence to find the deed has been
committed with a newly-purchased article. T}
secret of the popularity of shooting is reveale 1
in the common equivalent for the term suicid ■
When a man is desirous of expressing his con
tempt for the performance of another, he is very ant
to remark that if he himself could do no better hi
would blow his brains out; and so when he I
down on Ids luck he threatens to perform the sain
operation. Few people talk about hanging then 0
selves or cutting their throats, but blowing one’'
brains out is a fine, hearty expression which every*
one uses. It assumes, first, that there are braim
to be scattered, and, secondly, that the person
using the expression is not the man to stop at
half-measures. F "
* * *
Looking back over a series of years, it would
seem that the severing of the jugular vein ranks
third in public estimation. Throat-cutting
nevertheless, labours somewhat under a disadvant-
age in the race for popularity. It is not every-
one who shaves, every shaver does not shave
himself, and it is from the ranks of the self-
shavers that the throat-severing suicides are almost
exclusively drawn. If self - shaving were the
universal custom, it is quite reasonable to suppose
the greatest preference would be shown to this
system of despatch. Fourth in point of popu-
larity with men is death by poison. The fashion
in regard to poisoning has varied a good deal, but
during the past few years has ranked high
in public favour. Somehow men do not care
about suicide by drowning, to drown successfully
it is necessary that the candidate should not be
able to swim. Now, most men are able to swim
and it very often happens that a man who has
selected this as the method of drifting out of life
finds the water somewhat too reviving, and
instinctively uses his arms and legs to float
ashore. It is remarked that persons who attempt
self-destruction by drowning and finally swim to
land do not attempt the feat again, while, if a
man hangs or shoots himself or cuts his own
throat, he has no need for further experiment, the
one operation being sufficient to land him out of
this valley of tears. No other form of suicide is
greatly affected in Australia. Jumping from a
high cliff or a tall building is occasionally indulged
in; sometimes suffocation by charcoal fumes
sometimes bleeding to death, sometimes decapita’-
tion by the tram-car, but neither these nor others
that could be mentioned are in keeping with
the Australian temperament, and are chiefly
indulged in by foreigners.
* » #
With women the fashions in suicide are
very different and far more changeable than
amongst men. It may be assumed that women
who contemplate suicide have never seen other
women who have actually committed the rash
action, otherwise the blunders they make would
be unpardonable. Tire fundamental idea in a
woman’s mind is that she shall not disfigure
herself. Such a thing never occurs to a man.
Acting on this notion, a woman rarely cuts her
throat, seldom blows her brains out, avoids
tli rowing herself over the cliffs, or indeed
does anything which will disfigure her lovely
person. She may be as ugly as sin itself,
but she would like to make a good corpse.
A woman, therefore, who kills herself does so, in
eleven instances out of twelve, in one of three
ways: by poison, by drowning, or by hanging.
Poison is by far the most popular method. Her
profound ignorance of these matters leads her to
suppose that when the poison has done its work
and life has flown, her limbs will fall in graceful
repose and her face recover some of its lost
beauty. Her unacquaintance with science is
usually so great that she believes all poisons are
alike in their operation. Herein the astuteness of
man proves superior to the trustfulness of woman.
A man generally knows something about poisons,
he knows that the action of some is painless and
rapid, and of other painful beyond description and
comparatively slow. If a man takes poison it is
generally a narcotic, whilst woman in her ignor-
ance inflicts upon herself the cruel tortures of
arsenic, carbolic acid, vitriol, rough-on-rats, or
phosphorus. Little does she know, when she takes
these nasty compounds into her stomach, that
the peroration of her life, instead of being speedy
and comfortable, will bo a scream of agony
long drawn out. It is time that instruction on
these points were given in the State schools, as
(it is folly not to look the matter fairly in the face)
a certain percentage of the female scholars will
hereafter inevitably take their own lives and by
means of a little instruction a whole world of
suffering will be saved to many women. Death
by drowning is supposed to be easy and not
usually attended with disfigurement, it is there-
fore next to poison in order of popularity. But
women like to die in their homes; and, though
hanging makes a beastly mark on the neck, nearly
as many adopt this mode of quitting life as by
drowning, since it leaves them at home when their
friends call. Here again woman differs from man—
she likes to die in her own house, and, if possible,
while others are on the premises, while he is quite
indifferent as to where he gives up the ghost.
# * *
So far we have written for the benefit
of our philosophical readers. We will con-
clude with a few statistics that may in-
terest our sporting friends. Out of every 100
men who suicide, 84 will die in one of four
ways, 25 by hanging, 22 by shooting, 19 by cutting
their throats, and 18 by poison. Of the same
number of women 9G will die in one of four ways,
but in 45 cases it will be by poison, 21 by drown-
ing, 20 by hanging and 10 by severing the jugular.
Woman’s choice is, therefore, more restricted than
man’s, she only leaves four chances out of every 100
for innovation, while a man has 16 left him. When
a woman makes up her mind the chances are nearly
even that she will rush for the box of poisonand take
enough to dispatch a whole family. With a man
the chances are four to one that he will not take
poison, three to one that he will not hang himself,
rather more than four to one that he will not shoot
his head off, and rather less than these odds that
he will not sharpen his razor and draw it across
his throat. In these matters woman is more
studious of appearances and dislikes the thought
of blood ; man, on the contrary, gloats over the
vision of the red river dripping from couch to
floor. Woman’s feeling of domesticity leads her
to die at home, man is reckless where the end
comes. Woman is desirous that she should be
planted in a grave, but man, as a rule, is not
particular on that score. There is no moral, that
we know of, which can be drawn from this state-
ment, but as in 14 years over 1000 persons have
suicided in one Australian province alone, and as
in the next fourteen the number will bo very much
larger, it is just as well that some at least of those
interested may know bow their predecessors have
managed to lose the silken cord of their life.
HENRY SIEBEL.


Labour and Capital.
That fine old organ of “proputty,” the S. M.
Herald, lately printed a defence of Capitalism by
an" individual who cheeseparingly signs himself
“ 11. ” and from which we extract the following
lines containing his chief argument:—
No one will deny that Capital is originally created by
labour but it belongs to the labourer, whether by bead or
inml who has had the self-denial to save it, for the pur-
poses of further reproduction. A moment’s consideration
liil show that the most of people in our community are
sustained from day to day, not hy their daily labours, hut
i the savings of themselves and others in previous
labours, for the product of their own present labour will
not he in realisable form for days, weeks, months, ovsome-
times years afterwards. Take, for example, a farm
labourer, who eats daily from his master’s table food not
obtained from his daily labour, but advanced from his
employer’s savings or capital. Were the labourer to be
maintained by his own labour, he would require to fast
from seed-time till harvest was gathered, threshed and
ground, which is, of course, a manifest impossibility.
This is a fine piece of reasoning. The writer
simply argues that, in order that the worker may
be supported while the fruits of his labour attain
maturity, it is necessary that the bulk of his earn-
ings should be taken from him for saving purposes
ly someone popularly known as the capitalist,
whose doling out of support under future circum-
stances entitles him to levy contributions on the
life-long exertions of labour. If, as “H.” admits,
Capital is ci'eated by Labour, then, if the labourer
be afforded free access to natural opportunities,
what can prevent him from utilising the surplus
of one year as the capital of the next ? But, says
H.,” large quantities of capital are necessary for
reproductive use. Certainly. Put would not a
thousand pounds clubbed together and employed
by ten workers be more valuable as a medium of
production, and a much more valuable disseminator
of happiness, than a similar sum in the hands of
one man whose work was performed by nine hired
workers ? Surely.
* * #
There is no disagreement between Labour and
Capital. As Gronlund puts it, their relations are
as harmonious as those existing between roast beef
and an empty stomach, that is, when the owner of
the stomach is also owner of the beef. On the
other hand, when one man has the beef and
another the appetite, the bloated beef-banker may
consider it “natural, wise, and useful” to take
advantage of the hungry man’s necessity to extort
from him as much labour as the beef will enable
him to perform. But you can’t eat your beef and
have it too, and were, not Capital continually
replaced by Labour, were all labour suspended for
an indefinite period, it has been calculated that
the world would be starving in one year, naked in
three, and houseless in ten. On the other hand, if
every capitalist on the earth’s surface were sud-
denly caught up to Heaven, they never would be
missed, everything would go on as before, and
possibly much more equitably, for the capitalist is
as unnecessary as Capital is indispensable to
human existence. The function of the former is to
extort from the savings of others all that is neces-
sary to his luxurious idleness, that of Capital
to augment the power of Labour, and thus to con-
tribute to the toiler all that is necessary for his
subsistence and increased ease. It has most
assuredly been created by Labour which has not
received the full award of its toil, and, therefore,
should be used by the commonwealth for the
general good, instead of as now being filched by
the unscrupulous, niggardly, and daring, to the
general disadvantage.
* * #
When “H.” declares, however :
Were laud opened free to-morrow no improvement could
take place without drawing upon the savings of the
settlers themselves or of the Capitalist class generally—
we feel inclined to agree with him. Ere Labour
is thoroughly emancipated it will be necessary to
make the implements of production, and other
means of creating what is necessary for existence
as free as the land, for otherwise the poor will for
some time be compelled to pay a yearly tax to
their monopolisers.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Defect in tlie Constitution.
Australians who see arising out of the changing
incidents of our state “phantoms of new forms of
rule” which shall accord with the “new majesties
of mighty states ” hereafter to appear in being,
may well take a critical interest in the form of
rule, which now prevails. There will be shortly an
opportunity of recasting our constitution, and in
view of this contingency the present system may
in a double sense be said to be on its trial. Every
defect now apparent becomes important, and
every superiority is of consequence. The verdict
to be recorded hereafter will be regulated by the
evidence now being furnished. In New South
Wales some very valuable evidence has been sup-
plied by the accumulated disgraces of the debate
on the John Davies vote. The Premier, Sir
Henry Parkes, for reasons discreditable to him-
self, was under the necessity of securing £11.02 as
payment for his erstwhile political jackal, the
O.M.G. in question. It was hardly contended by
any debater that any work done by Mr. Davies
was worth that amount, and it was admitted that
very grave charges against him remained wholly
unexcused. It was acknowledged that officials of
the Casual Labour Office, of which office Mr.
Davies was the head, had, in a most flagrant
manner, misused thousands of pounds of
public funds, and yet so much was the Pre-
mier, from causes not fully explained, in-
terested in paying the exorbitant and outrageous
claim of an undeserving officer, that the vote was
practically made a party question, and by sheer
physical force a Government victory was gained
after a week’s time had been wasted. That victory
enriched a man who deserved neither reward nor
consideration: it covered unwilling Ministerialists
with dishonour, for it was achieved by their votes
given against their convictions and conscience :
and, finally, it bled the country of an amount
which no jury would under the circumstances
ever have awarded. These are nice results to
accrue from the working of a constitution which
champagne-encouraged oratory is apt to laud
in the most effusive terms. A more complete
and contemptible sacrifice of principle to party it
would not be easy to discover. The fact is that
the liability of the Ministry to displacement by
a hostile vote, enables any Ministry by declaring
any vote to be a party question, to carry, so long as
their majority remains, whatever jobs they may
choose to patronise, however nefarious these may
be. In the States, where the Secretaries are
secure in position for their term, no such patronage
of jobbery is possible. No vote of censure could
displace an American Administration, and it is
impossible for Ministers there to whip in reluctant
supporters to carry a dishonourable proposal. In
New South Wales there has recently been shown
an active desire to remove public officers beyond
the range of political influence. Railway Cotii-
missioners and Land Board officials now stand
upon the same footing as Judges, their positions
being unassailable by legislative vote, and from
such new immunity the best results any justly
expected to ensue. Why should not the Ministers
of Parliament be likewise secured from deprivation
of office by vote of censure, and the range of
underground influence be thereby curtailed? In
the present instance the mysteriously potent influ-
ence of Mr. Davies has forced Sir Henry, Parkes
to propose, and the Parkesites to support, a vote
which amounts to costly public reward for ghastly
public offences. Under the system we suggest Sir
Henry would be unable to make his party the
advocates of a claim they should denounce, and
Mr. Da vies would be unable to make his puppet,
Parkes, dance when the wires were pulled. Put
the Administration into commission, and although
jobbers might grieve, the country would gain sub-
stantial advantage.
♦-
The Mount Morgan Ministry.
Everywhere in Queensland the most unequivocal
signs of the com ng Fiscal struggle are showing
themselves. Lightning changes, brutal declara-
tions, unscrupulous combinations, desperate in-
trigues, all are tending one way. The next session
must see the revolution of the question of Free-
trade or Protection. No more bastard tariff im-
positions under the cloak of the deficit and the
need for public revenue. One opportunity for the
Southern Freetraders, put into power by an im-
plied assent to the doctrine of Protection, has
been enough. No Queensland politician a year
hence will be able to assert that the country has
not explicitly declared its will, and that he can
therefore lawfully run crooked, not having sworn
that he will run straight. The overwhelming
victory for Nationalism at the last elec-
tions has settled for ever, at any rate in
Queensland, the Imperialistic hash, and the
Liberals in this respect have bowed to the vox
populi, which is the vox Dei, as much as a certain
section of the other party bowed to the same
oracular voice declaring in 1883, once and for all,
that Queensland is for the whites and for the
whites alone. Morehead, Pattison, and Macros-
san have struck hands with the Brisbane Tele-
graph and the old Whigs. To-day Mount Morgan
and Queen-street rub noses. Capital and Freetrade,
the Banks and the Importers, are at one. Mean-
time everything parliamentary is in hopeless con-
fusion. The political pack is being madly
re-shuffled before the new deal is made and the
game begins. The two sides slowly disentangle
themselves and draw into opposing lines.
Nominally at the present moment there are three
parties—the Ministerialists, the MTlwraithians,
and the Opposition. The latter number 27, of
whom about 20 are Protectionists. The Minis-
terialists, including the Northern men, number
about 15, who are Freetraders to a man, or else
are compelled to vote as a certain Mount Morganer
directs. MTlwraith has about 25 men behind
him, of whom about 20 are Protectionists. That
gives 40 Protectionists and 25 Freetraders, leaving
7 uncertain votes, the total being 72. It is obvious
that the only possibility of carrying a vote is in a
combination between the MTlwraithian and
Griffithite Protectionists. The disorganisation of
the Nationalist caucus, despite the sombre
quiescence of both MTlwraith and Griffith,
who are both biding their time, is so great that the
Ministry may get beaten over the Estimates,
and precipitate the crisis at once. In the
ensuing confusion they may hope to grab power
again. For MTlwraith, at no cost, will form a
Ministry and take office in the teeth of a Queens-
land summer and his present health. Protec-
tionists on both sides of the House should be reso-
lute not to let the dissolution dodge go through.
The session should close without a trial of
strength. Protection wants no half-victory. The
flowing tide is with it. There must be no
paralysing balance of parties as in New South
Wales. On the opening of the new session in
May or June, the battle will commence with the
certainty of the leader being both strong and
ready to keep his place. There can be no doubt
of the results. Mount Morgan will have a fall,
and the country can then be appealed to on the out-
and-out Fiscal Issue once more. There can be no
doubt of the results. Protection will return with
a big majority that will stamp the doctrine once
and for all in Queensland Legislation.
<j>
The Modern Herod.
Twelve babies have died at a Woollahra (Sydney)
establishment during the last eleven months. The
soil of the typical baby-farm is evidently enriched
with the corpses of infants who come into the
world without invitation and leave it unlamented,
and a certain “ knowing ” section of the Press has
quickly dropped the “ad.” of the risky abor-
tionist for that of the “childless lady who
wants to adopt a very young baby. Pre-
mium, £5, £10, or £15. Apply ‘ Omega,’ Post
Office, - street. ” We have lately read of a man
whose already large family was increased by the
arrival of twins, and who was so over-wrought by
the infliction as to substitute at a religious banquet
the name of King Herod for that of somebody
of pious and immortal memory. Few people are
so outspoken, but to many King Herod is in
secret a very patron saint. The child of lust and
sin is an unwelcome visitor, and every effort is
made to get rid of the responsibility of its sup-
port. At one time the abortionist did a flourish-
ing business, but nowadays it is seemingly ac-
counted safer to risk the life of the child than that
of the mother, and so a modern Herodian edict
has gone forth, the children of love are made the
inheritors of woe, and the sins of the fathers are
atoned for by the sacrifice of their offspring. There
is a remedy for thiSi Protect the character of
women by making every birth a legitimate one,
and a betrayed woman’s shame will no longer con-
quer a mother’s love. Compel every man to pro-
vide in proportion to his means for his illegitimate
children and their mother while they require
support, and in the division of property place the
illegitimate on the same footing as the legitimate.
You may say all this will simply provide the
father with stronger incentives for Herodising his
unwelcome heirs. True ; but, on the other hand,
it will make it very much to the interest of the
mother, their natural protector —no longer afraid
of social ostracism —to do all that lies in her power
to fan the feeble flame of newly-kindled existence.
The weight of guilt has too long been transferred
from the shoulders of the seducer to his victim ;
too long have children been unscrupulously
butchered in order that the selfish sensualist might
escape pecuniary taxation.
♦
Sydney Daily Telegraph of a late date makes a
big hit by contrasting a letter written in praise of
liquor by the versatile Mr. Nelson P. White-
locke (since his appointment as secretary, at
£400 a year, to the New South Wales Licensed
Victuallers’ Association) witli a letter signed
by him and written from the extreme pro-
hibitionist point of view that appeared in
the paper’s columns exactly two months prior.
Mr. Whitelockk, a poet, and therefore a
believer in the inspiration to be derived from
whisky, now argues on the side of the liquor-
seller by quoting the names of the great poets and
philosophers who drowned dull care in the flowing
bowl, and states that “the fraudulent debtor, dis
honourable respondent and co-respondent are,
generally speaking, the most sober of individuals,”
and the successful burglar’s “ steadiness of hand
on the jemmy-lever ”is the result of strict devo-
tion to temperance. In his earlier letter—written
a couple of months ago—Mr. Whitelooke said
“1 join hands with the Good Templars in saying
that the ruin of trade and labour is demonstrated
in the bar-room, whence come our murderers, bur-
glars, thieves, petty-larcenists and vagabonds.”
We do not seek to defend Mr. Whitelooke) to
whom, apparently, £4OO a year has made plain the
iniquities of teetotalism), nor to attack the D.T.
for advantaging itself of his laughable _ many-
sidedness ; we simply take occasion to point out
that were the D.T. similarly treated, it would
emerge even 3e s creditably from the ordeal.
Parallel its late utterances regarding Parkes as a
man, the Soudan mistake, and Australian National-
ism with those of two or three years ago, and the
nation would simply shriek. The difference be-
tween Nelson P. Whitelooke and the D.T. is
simply this : Whitelooke so concretely expresses
his stipendiary and other sentiments that you can
corner them in four burning lines; whereas the
D.T. expresses its varying doctrines in leading
articles as long as a shilling eel and twice as
slippery and unholdable. In satirising their
victim they are only inviting people to “take a
rise” out of themselves.
*
For a cold-blooded declaration of preference for
blood-shedding, so as to avoid the burden of a
small pecuniary obligation, recommend us to the
letter of “G. 8.” in the Age of 9th October. Says
he ;
VVny should there be such shrinking from taking the life
of a scoundrel who has taken life ? And why, in the face
of clearest evidence, and a verdict approved by a calm
and impartial judgment, should popular hysterics inter-
fere with justice? In the United States murder is rarely
punished by the death penalty, because popular senti-
ment insists that every chance of reprieve should be ac-
corded the accused, and the law permits appeal on the
most trivial issues. Life, therefore, in the United States,
is scarcely held to he as valuable a possession as property.
We are drifting in a similar direction. In Parliament and
out of it there seems to exist a disposition to permit senti-
ment to override reason, and the emotional principle to
encumber the action of justice. For ray part I can dis-
cover no reason, social, political, economic or religions,
for evading or abolishing the death penalty when it is de-
served. A murderer has forfeited his right to live, and
there is neither justice nor logic in calling upon me as a
tax-payer to contribute towards keeping him alive in
prison
Surely the aged relatives of people who reason in
this way cannot be secure. “ They have outlived
their usefulness and have in many cases reduced
themselves to the level of mere animals by excesses
in drink and so on, and why should I contribute
towards their support—they have forfeited their
right to live.” Having condemned the alleged
over-value of property as against life in the United
States, he then demands that life shall be taken
in order that his purse may be spared. Such a
reasoner is not amenable to argument. Surely
the man who can show good reasons, social and
sentimental, for sparing the lives of all murderers,
is the man least likely of all others to commit
murder; while the alleged man who illogically
demands the taking of human life, in order that
human life may be made safe—(and the strain on
his purse-strings lightened)—is—well, just the
sort of person who would not stick at anything
when his self-interests are concerned.
■ —♦
Says Reynolds’ Newspaper :
It must not be assumed that we regret the fact that the
woman, Mrs. Maybrick, has been spared the rope. We
rejoice at it for several reasons. First of all, because the
doom of the convict is in our opinion the heaviest that it
is in the power of man to visit on his fellow-man, if man
acted according to the highest law, or in accordance with
the teachings of experience, as to the non-deterrent effect
of capital punishment. In the second place, as we hold
that the law which arrogates to itself the right to take
away human life is impious and unrighteous, the absurd
pretexts that have been offered in explanation of
the exercise of the prerogative in this case—pre-
texts that would not have been suggested had the
criminal been a woman of low birth and without friends
and influence—has given a mighty impetus to the
movement for the abolition of the death penalty that may-
lead to the renewal of the agitation that twenty' y'ears ago
almost resulted in victory, and that actually' did result in
the abolition of public executions. And, thirdly, though
we have denounced the insensate agitation got up in the
favour of Mrs. Maybrick, and demanded that the same
justice should be meted out to her as would have been
meted out to any other of her fallen sisters in humble life,
the fact that the power of even a section of public opinion
has forced the hand of the authorities to a merciful coulee
is a tribute—though it may be a left-handed one—to the
power of public opinion, that promises much in the future
when popular opinion is wisely directed.
According to the late Richard Anthony
Proctor’s estimate, the world has 50 or 60 million
years in which it will be habitable for the races of
men who now exist on it.
Somewhere in Australia, the other day, a
bailiff, the father of seven, clapped into the
house of an illustrious M.P. for electioneering
expenses, was foolish enough to quit the premises
after four days’ possession on receiving a cheque,
afterwards proved valueless. For this dereliction
of duty he was discharged by the chief bailiff, and
now has lots of time to mourn the weakness that
caused him to put faith in the written word of a
politician.
An English paper says that the Prince of
Wales’ leg (Heaven preserve it!) has grown to an
enormous size, and adds: “Indeed, with a vari-
cose vein of such long standing and size as the one
from which the Prince is suffering he ought to lie
up for some weeks and not use the leg at all. The
doctors, of course, know such treatment is not
possible, as the Prince, having a very good appe-
tite, requires a certain amount of exercise.” We
would like to know how this Wilful stout gentle-
man who can’t govern his appetite is going to
govern an Empire when he ascends the Throne
if he ever does ascend it. The varicose veins in
the Empire, and there are many of them, will have
to suffer, we imagine.
In conversation with a reporter, Norwood,
Chairman of the Joint Committee of the London
Docks, acknowledged that the conditions of labour
there were not consistent with the rational life of
the labourer, and said that —
“ The Amalgamated Societies of Engineers and Steve-
dores are powerful, but I do not think the members will
be willing that their funds should be exhausted for the
purpose of helping the casual and unskilled labourers.
When the pinch comes, as come it must on Saturday, the
hopes of the strikers will receive a severe shock, and I
shall he surprised if there is any backbone left in the
agitation after then.” In fact, in the words of the Pall
Mall Gazette, he said, “ They are casual and unskilled:
they are poor devils and have no helper.”
These inhuman anticipations were disappointed
by the support lent by the stevedores and the
Australian public, and it is to be hoped that this
brutally outspoken Norwood (designated by John
Burns as “not an Englishman nor a man but a
financial ‘Jack the Ripper’ ”) has gained a lesson,
if not in humanity, at least in discretion.
The Melancholy Mummer.
(FOR THE BULLETIN .)
“ Drop the curtain ; put out the light;
The play is ended, and, wrong or right,
'Die players weary, with minds unstrung,
Knter the bar-room one hy one.
“ They, poor devils, with aching hearts,
Must hide their sorrows and play their parts ;
In one short night, from eight to eleven.
Many an actor has earned a heaven.”
(The Argument.)
In a Melbourne theatre-programme that tommy-
rot we read,
So we sermonised, as follows, before we went to
bed ;
And the actor worth a button will admit, although
lie’s vex’t,
That the sermon isn’t quite so very stupid as the
text.
(The Prologue.)
Wo are sick of the chestnut song
Of the mummer who plays his part
Through all the evening long,
When agony wrings his heart—
Who grins in the footlights’ glare,
And dances a hornpipe mad
As he thinks, with a dull despair,
How the missus is dreadful bad.
We are “ jack ” of his secret woes—
Of his baby that’s lying dead
While he trips on his gouty toes,
Or stands on his swollen head;
And, as for the ballet “ star,”
Who is ever (as bards aver)
The support of a palsied Mar —■
We are horribly tired of her.
We know how the nymph must dance
Eor the sake of a hungry brood -
How her sister is blind, perchance,
And needs most nourishing food —
How Dad’s on a bed of pain,
And hasn’t the strength to stir—
Now, we mention this fact again,
We are thoroughly sick of her !
For isn’t the world a stage—
As William, divine, did write —
Where millions of folks engage
In acting from morn till night ?
Don’t city men joke and jest
Though troubles are thick in town ?
Can’t they smile when they’re distress’t,
As well the painted clown ?
E’en the journalist slings bright stuff
When his eyes with dews are dim—
But he's twaddled about enough.
We are rather full of him,
There’s the trafficker at the store,
In goods which are “ soft ” or “ dry,”
Does biz. when-his soul is sore,
And laughs when he’d like to cry.
Does the pantomime dwarf or gnome
Know more of domestic care,
Has he more wives dying at home
Than the barber who cuts his hair ?
And doesn't the barber smirk
And jauntily wield his shears
'rill he sadly returns from work
To a family bathed in tears.
The baker who leaves the bread,
The butcher who brings the beef,
At times have their loved ones dead,
And whistle to hide their grief ;
No poet yet turned a verse
In praise of the droll old boy,
Who must solemnly drive a hearse
While he’s ready to jump for joy.
They are players, yes, every one,
With jests that are far more fresh,
In the matter of point and pun,
Than those of the old “ perfesh.”
Oft the mummer’s spontaneous miith,
As he struts on the stage at ease,
Is the saddest of trials on earth
For the public he’s paid to please.
During the recent rough weather in
N.S.W. a clergyman, who had been praying
for rain, was knocked down by a hailstone. Ask
and ye shall receive.
Boss Tweed once said that he didn’t care
what people wrote, it was the pictures that did
the mischief. And just as the illustrated papers
were used to knock down Boss Tweed so they are
used to prop up rotten institutions. The Bul-
letin has more than once said that Royalty would
wither but for the advertised evidences of its
beauty and magnificence and power. Queen Vic-
toria is still good-looking, according to the London,
illustrated papers ; according to those papers,
also, the Prince of Wales is not bald yet. The
illustrated English Press is merely a cosmetic of
the colossal cheek of Royalty, a puff-box for kings
and queens, princes and princesses. For dreary
emptiness commend us to the pages of the publi-
cations in question at seasons when the sham
known as Royalty is performing of its meaning-
less “functions” amongst a grovelling and
fawning public. Even the practised artists
whose special and melancholy line is to
periodically depict Her Graciousness and her
innumerable progeny in the act of laying-
foundation-stones, opening new buildings, or re-
ceiving the fulsome adulations of aldermanic
crawlerdom, must, one would think, be heartily
tired of the everlasting sameness of their work.
The wearisome monotony characteristic of the
ghastly pictures illustrative of the hackneyed
tableaux of a royal progress is calculated to try
severely the loyalty of even the most Throne-
adoring cockney. One would think the pictures
are drawn on one uniform model and kept in stock
to suit the exigencies of any time and event, as,
for instance No. I—The Queen passing down
street. Stock features; (a) Venetian masts,
triumphal arches, and bunting ad lib., erected by
an imbecile Corporation at the cost of the servile
ratepayers; (b), Her Gracious’ carriage with the
absurd but inevitable postillions, escort, &c, ;
(c), the usual line of troops with fixed bayonets
hired for the occasion as a special police,
to prevent any vulgar plebeian or ragged
Radical from approaching the “Presence” too
closely ; (and), a gaping, open-mouthed crowd
waving hats frantically, and hurrahing—why they
couldn’t tell you themselves. Picture No. 2. The
Queen receiving an address at the Town-hall.
Aldermanic snob in the foreground, in a wormy
attitude of servility at the steps of Her Gracious’
carriage, reading the confession of abject slavish-
ness carefully prepared beforehand. Eor the rest
fill in exactly as before. Pictures 3,4, 5,6, 7, 8—
do., do., do., do. Will this sort of thing still go
on, we wonder, when Albert Edward acts the
royal puppet-show in place of Mamma?


Ben Franklin Printing 1 Office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. IML MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, See., See.,
SUITABLE FUR
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates. J3ST" a Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Street).
[?]
846 Maoquarie-street North, Sydney, October 16,1889.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
Did you know that when a Governor of another
colony goes over to the Melbourne Cup he is of less
account, where precedence is concerned, than the Admiral
of the station ? The former has to hustle with the
other non-local Governors on a back-seat, but the Admiral,
as representing Britannia actively engaged in ruling
the waves, is accorded the place of honour at the enter-
taining Governor’s right hand. That’s all the trouble
between the departed Admiral Fairfax and the Cabbage
Plot. At the opening of the big show he was left to perch
in outer darkness far from what appears to be his rightful
position. The Admiral’s wife, too, has a right to “go in ”
before a Governor’s wife when the latter is off her own
stamping-ground.
Apropos of Governors, it is said that the Earl of Kintore
has a great horror of owing anybody money. He has the
same objection to having it owed to him. This pawkiness
in cash transactions justifies his adoption of a kilt.
The Boiled Shirt Ministry has already arrived in Sydney.
Why it should be deemed correct for the members of the
N.S.W. Cabinet to attend a mid-day prorogation in dress-
suits is to me a riddle. Nothing looks more dreadful
than a man in a swallow-tail before sunset, unless he’s a
waiter, and under any other circumstances it would be con.
sidered an unpardonable solecism. Mr. Bruce Smith’s
shirt-front was, I admit, a most magnificent spectacle—
he had only about one button on his waistcoat —but I
much preferred those legislators who attended in rough
tweeds and hard hats. Sir Henry Parkes wore an
unearthly English Court uniform and only wanted
a chaplet of mistletoe and some powdered glass
to double old Father Christmas. Governor Caring-
ton was the same to the last yard of lace on that
wonderful hat, and Mr. Melville—who, since he has be-
come Chairman of Committees, goes about in a long over-
coat with huge fur collar and cuffs I —had jammed a large
red flower in his coat, and vainly imagined he had “ got
there.” As for the show of ladies, I have never seen so
few top-note women at any Parliamentary ceremony—
indeed, a handful of unknowns only turned up, and mem-
bers had the passages passable for once, and could sit on
chairs and remain there without being scowled out of
them. Perhaps it all was because Lady Carington was
unable to be present.
Misfortunes never come singly. First an insolvency,
and then to have Augustus implicated in what might
easily have been a divorce-suit! Of course he “didn’t
know it was loaded ” —that the lady was a legally-married
woman in her leisure moments, but I hardly think that
that very reasonable argument would carry across a
breakfast-table, do you ? However, there is one consola-
tion : the ante-nuptial peccadilloes of Reginald and Alfred
don’t always find them out in such an unceremonious
fashion.
As the thirsty summer approaches we theatre-going
women become connoisseurs in the perfume of the various
liquids served below during the intervals, for their volume
is much greater during the hot season, and the man
behind breathes more stertorously and laughs more loudly.
Maude and I concluded that whisky was first favourite
last year, but this season it’s something with cloves in it.
The other night a man in front made a move to slip out
during the interval. “Where are you going, William ?”
came the wifely inquiry. “ To get a lemonade, my dear,’
was the faltering response. But he came back chewing
peppermint. Once I heard another man prevaricate like
that, but Pansy Blossom was a regiment too many for
him. “Do yer really want a lemonade, George?” she
said, unkindly, “ Well, so do I—we can get some in the
ladies’ cloak-room. Gome along.” And he came.
Mr. Sidney Dickenson’s dissolving views of New Zea-
land, an entertainment largely patronised by the love,
sick, who revel in the Cimmerian gloom of theauditorium
and exchange sentimentalities without reflecting that
their heads are outlined on the white sheet—was strictly
V.R., on 10th, when the Baron came with brother Rupert.
As there wasn’t even a jew’s-harp on the premises the
Queen's representative paraded up the aisle between rows
of seated “subjects,” for not even the final demi-semi-
quaver of the National Anthem heralded his approach !
His Ex. seemed greatly interested in the show and had his
secretary along, who appeared to be taking, notes all the
time. As “ he” intends to patronise the Dunedin Exhibi-
tion there is some method in his wishing to achieve the
geography of the blawsted wilderness in the Kindergarten
style—through big coloured pictures. What a time the
secretary will have to he sure! “Post ma up in the
height and features of Mount Cook, deah hoy ! ”
We must start the falling tear and prepare to part with
Lord Carington, for in Governor Hopetoun’s valedictory
harangue at Edinburgh or somewhere he announced that
the “Governor of a sister colony said he was sorry he had
to return to England at the end of eighteen months.”
What a lark it would be if the new occupants of the Inner
Domain were of the Loftus stamp ! Three icy fingers and
a hair-raising glare for anybody who hadn’t a family tree !
Imagine the motley crow that swarm to Lady Carington’s
receptions, balls, at homes, forcing their split-gloved hand-
shakes on a poker-spined “ grande dame !”
The impending Cavingtonian exeunt reminds me iu a
vague and unaccountable way of a story told me recently
about a modern Sarah, united to a Latter-day Abraham,
who bewailed muchly the absence of perambulators to
trip over in the dim-lit hall. Change of residence was
advised and followed, and hardly was the furniture straight
when a brace of twins “oped their flow’ret eyes” upon the
scene. Upon which Sarah resolutely packed her traps
and set out to return to the old domicile. The other place
was too healthy for her, she said.
Every second person I meet asks me how I liked Beck’s
Brutus, and I reply oracularly that it’s pardonable for a
first offence, and that if he didn’t roll his finals like the
“ Private Secretary,” and wasn’t so contemplative of the
other man he would be easy to forgive-especially in the
quarrel scene. He ought not to wear two modern diamond
rings, though. And, apropos of Her Majesty’s Theatre,
that blithesome melodramatic Adonis, who is ever leaping
off great heights to the shump of the big drum and the
rescue of Beauty in a Fix, recently advertised for a
weight-carrying hack up to 18-stone! O, Romance in-
carnate, thou weighest no less than tw'O-hundred-and-
flfty-two pounds avoirdupois.
“ Sophia,” at Sydney Criterion, isn’t gowned to carry all
before her. That smoke-grey cashmere in acts 1,2, and 3,
cut low in the neck with puffs placed round the upper
part of the arms to give an air of width (as if anybody
but a man ever hankered after that!) the short-waisted
bodice tied very ungracefully in front with bows-and-ends
of grey ribbons, would be sufficient to disfigure a Venus,
though, as it’s archoeologically correct, I suppose poor
Mrs. Brough w ill have to stand it. As Lady Bcllaston,
Fanny Enson (rather handicapped by having Myra Kemble
as her predecessor in the part) wears a cream brocade jupe
bordered with gilt fringe, the over-dress of blue plush with
Watteau train, the fronts edged with brown fur —cream
satin sleeves and a very giddy fan putting a finishing
touch. As Tom Jones, Cecil Ward sobers up with the
same astonishing neatness and despatch, and I must con-
gratulate him on having almost overcome the habit of
rolling his eyes, which always seemed in danger of falling
out. He reminds me of a Sydney business man, who has
big, prominent brown eyes, with which he glares so fiercely
that his friends, when they w’alk with him, always keep
their eyes fixed on the pavement, so that they may not
trample on his when these latter at last drop out of his
head. If Mr. Ward can only learn not to verbalise as if he
had a large, ripe pear in his mouth, there will be no coin's
to his performance, for his love-making makes every
second woman flutter her fan and rustle in her seat, and
his shanks quite fill out those nice brown stockings.
At a Sydney drapery, the other morning, I was shown
the ne plus ultra of a summer-glove. It is of kid in any
colour wuth the palm—where the hands perspire most
freely—made of lisle thread. It is as cool and close-
fitting as possible and ever so much nicer than those ugly
gloves with the fingers capped with clumsy kid.
Much shrill controversy arose amongst the sisters Dora
at the Brisbane Children’s Hospital when it was an-
nounced that they must wear the sombre black uniform
both when on and off duty. At last Lady Norman was
pressed into the discussion and she mounted the stump
and announced, as if the fact were all-sufficient, that
“ My own daughter always wore her nurse’s uniform even
when on visits to us. She was proud of it, as I hope you
all will be, for it is a dress which will ensure you honour,
respect, and courtesy wherever you may wear it.” Then
the heathen fell down and worshipped, of course, and the
crooked way was made straight.
Talking of Children’s Hospitals, what scope there is for
pathetic “ ink-slingers ” in the scenes that occur within
their walls ! In the Sydney Hospital there was a child,
brought by its mother —whose parents bad a “ judicial
separation.” They both visited him but they never met
At last the father asked the boy what time his mother
usually came, and one day there was a tearful reconcilia-
tion beside the small white bed.-
In a long and spineless objection to the carryings-on of
Sweet Seventeen at public bazaars, “ Faustine,” a peren-
nial contributor to the S.M.H.’s “gush” column, remarks
in a horrified way: “ Fancy our Juliet, that sweet em-
bodiment of . . . dignifiedgirlhood . . . running
round at a fancy fair ... to force young Romeos to
buy!!” Only fancy! But I think the average mamma
would rather see" her daughter pin a high-priced rose in
Romeo's coat, and go off after another victim, than sneak
off to the registry-office with the first man she met, con-
struct rope-ladders to her chamber window, talk in
parables, and finally drug herself, don’t you ? It's all very
well to admire a limelight Juliet to “ sneaky ” music, but
to have one loose on the premises would break down the
strongest institution in a week.
In another article in the same journal the same writer
wildly asks—“ What then is that shifting, illusive thing we
call truth ?” Poor seeker ! This comes of reading S.M.H.
reports of Protectionist speeches and the Herald’s daily
cable, I suppose !
Per canvas-backed circular I understand that Melbourne
Rowing Club will hold a ball in aid of the club funds at
the Town Hall on the 20th inst. As several perfectly
dazzling aristocrats are billed as patrons, and as the eight
nice young men on the committee know how to arrange
things, I predict a big div. for the Club when balance-day
arrives. And speaking of the great ohavoo by the Yarra,
the return ball to Sir Bengy Bengy takes place at the
Town Hall On the 23rd inst., while the Lochs’ annual fete
champetre occurs on 31st inst.
Lady Robinson, accompanied by her little son, is ex-
pected to arise and shine at her Bowral (N.S.W.) retreat
on 18th inst. She will leave Melbourne on 15th.
As the cricketing season has been inaugurated, I may
be permitted to suggest—with a view of giving masculine
fashions a show—that superfine flannel with silk stripes is
the very latest wear for shirts. Also that silk belts will
take the place of common webbing, and sash, hose, tie,
and hat-band must all correspond. And, speaking of
cricket, did you know that Robert Brough is an enthu-
siastic batter ?
Rather a novelty for Spring wear and a godsend to
girls who like to tide over the season without much out-
lay is the rainbow hat. It’s of any straw, but it must be
flat, and round the brim are laid a succession of folds of
coloured liberty silk, all harmonising, of course. I have
seen one worn, and the effect is very pretty with a simple
cotton gown.
What an era of perfume this is ! Though one must
never scent one’s handkerchief, everything else is per-
fumed. Corsage sachets are filled with delicious scent,
scent is poured on the hair, amongst the gathers of the
sleeves, and fans are soused in it. Meanwhile masculine
baldness is on the increase, for the parfumeuse’s bill
leaves the milliner’s now’here.
Speaking of babies—a subject no woman under the sun
is ever tired of discussing—l am told (mind this is in a
stage whisper, my dear) that the receiver of entries at a
recent show was bearded in his den one day by a hand-
some young woman with a Picture baby who wanted to
enter sonny. There was no visible reason why she
shouldn’t, so a form w as parsed over to her. Name, age .
and address, were filled in, mother’s and father’s name
too, but when the paper was handed back it was seen that
mamma’s and papa’s surnames were a bad fit, and the de-
duction was highly improper. Of course the handsome
young woman and the Picture baby were very decidedly
bowed out.
Owing to the cold, drizzly weather the flocks of women
who occupied the reserved chairs at the first of the Hazon
orchestral concerts in Darlinghurst Hall on the afternoon
of 12th inst. had resurrected their winter frocks and
bonnets, so there was nothing thrilling in “ rags ” to dis-
tract one's attention-my eye only straying once in the
direction of a pretty black bonnet, with a front composed
entirely of tiny buttercups. Hazon’s music was simply
breathless. Every item (there Were but eight on the
programme) was unanimously encored by the large
audience present, especially Boccherini’s minuet in A
(strings only) which was repeated right through, whi.e
the ballad music from Le Cid was furious'y re-demanded.
Altogether the enthusiasm was intense and the gifted
conductor did not smirkingly appropriate all the applause
to himself as someone else used to do, hut, as he bowed,
included with a sweep of the hands the members of the
orchestra in his acknowledgment. Which was such
unusual modesty that your Sappho pinched herself to see
if she were really and truly awake.
So we have seen the last of our Nellie for a time, and
the national grief at losing sight of her took the form of a
packed house with people glued by their hair to the roof
and suspended from the chandelier on the farewell night
—llth inst. —showers of Brobdingnagian bouquets and
cheers, sobs and good wishes when the curtain fell for the
last time. It was a pity Nellie didn’t orate her own vale-
dictory. Even had she simply said “ Br—aw —yes—good-
bye ” it would have been kinder to the gilded youths than
Leumane’s polished periods. But she stood beside him in
the sham Queen’s dress in “ Pepita,” and that helped
things along. After a brief spell in Sydney Miss Stewart
goes overland to the Cabbage Plot.
Y ectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
“ Fourteen Flags ” M‘lver has publicly
apologised at Bow-street police-court to Explorer
Kerry, of New Guinea notoriety. Never mind,
General, even an apology is an advertisement.
An acrimonious discussion is now going on
as to the merits of a recently-published Australian
history. No one has yet attempted to undervalue
The Bulletin’s “History of Botany Bay,” pub-
lished at Is. and profusely illustrated. Will be
mailed to any address in Australia on receipt of
that sum and sd. postage.
Messrs. Moses Moss and Co., under power
of attorney from the proprietor of Wolfe’s
Schnapps, have just made a “ public ” example o
a Sydney hotelkeeper who, out of Wolfe’s bottles,
retailed as Wolfe’s Schnapps, cheap spirits (“faked
up ” with sodawater). The dodge was exposed
through the agency of a couple of barmen, stimu-
lated to action, no doubt, by the substantial
reward offered by Messrs. Moss and Co. But it is
ridiculous that there should in N.S.W. be no
higher legal penalty for adulteration than £5 or
fourteen days’ gaol. Why, as things stand, it
would pay a publican to get his employees to lay
an information against himself and divide the
reward with the informers.
A large number of persons who had signed
orders for copies of various publications to be de-
lived in parts, resisted payment in Sydney Courts
last week, chiefly on the allegation that false
representations had been made to them as to the
contents of the contract; but, in alrqpst every case
a verdict was given for the plaintiff with law-costs
added to swell the original amount. The moral is,
that people signing contracts should read them
carefully and endeavour to remember the contents.
Apparently owing to the success of that huge
enterprise, the Picturesque Atlas of Australa-
sia, on the production of which, by the way,
three hundred thousand pounds has been spent,
book-agents of all sorts are devastating the conti-
nent. There appear to be twosidesto the system of
professional personal canvass which has of late
eventuated in so much fruitless law, and for the in-
troduction of which we are indebted to the Yankees.
Cne side is the cheeky and more voracious than
veracious individual who will palm off his wooden
hams, life-elixirs, trashy books or other shoddy as
good value ; the other is the pushing man, more or
less a necessity in these days of big joint-stock
combinations, whb hkralds a legitimate enterprise.
But for the support gained through his agency, it
would have been impossible to produce such a
work as the Picturesque Atlas, where the initial
outlay was so enormous, and the subsequent risk,
no matter how good in an artistic and literary
sense the work might be, was too great for any-
body but a Vanderbilt to face.
Premier Parkes has on hand the appoint-
ment of another Supreme Court Judge to fill the
place of Mr. Justice Deffell, the Judge in Bank-
ruptcy, who has resigned. This gentleman, a
classical scholar from Cambridge, was never in
politics, and, notwithstanding certain peculiarities
of manner, it will be difficult to find a fit suc-
cessor. With the exception of Mr. Justice Owen,
all the other occupants of the Bench have been, at
one time or another, in politics, and, with the ex-
ception of Judge Stephen, were Ministers of the
Crown in one or other of the Governments formed
by the present Premier. Politically there is very
little to choose from. The Attorney-General (Mr.
Simpson), a good all-round man, has been over 30
years at the bar, and at one time occupied a seat
on the District Court Bench, which he resigned
many years ago—to resume practice, it was said —
but many assert that Mr. Simpson left the
Bench owing to the manner in which a sentence
in a blasphemy case at Parramatta in 1871
was overruled by the then Government. The case
was simple. One William Orlando Jones, a
monumental mason, was accused of reading in a
public place certain passages of the Bible and
blasphemously commenting on them. He was
found guilty and Judge Simpson sentenced him to
two years’ imprisonment and a fine of £lOO to the
Queen. The uproar that ensued in and out of
Parliament induced the Government of the day
(Sir James Martin’s) to remit the fine and release
Jones after a couple of weeks’ imprisonment. Mr.
Simpson is, however good he may be as a lawyer,
in “ the sere and yellow leaf,” and, like Mr.
Deffell, not over-strong. Of the experienced men
who would reflect credit on the country (apart
from Mr. Pilcher, Q. 0., who would probably not
care to accept a judgeship) may be mentioned Mr.
F. E. Rogers, Q. 0., Mr. Edmund Barton, Q.C.,
Mr. Gregory Walker, Mr. C. B. Stephen, Mr. C.
J. Manning, Mr. H. E. Cohen, and Dr. Donovan.
The two first, being Protectionists, unless Parkes
prefers thus to silence his most dangerous oppo-
nent, may be left out of the running with the
present Government in office and the last-
named being a Roman Catholic, may also take
a back seat, as no one credits Mir. Daniel
O’Connor with having much influence in the
Cabinet. Mr. C. B. Stephen having a brother on
the Bench may be objected to, although a better
appointment possibly could not be made from a
certain standpoint. Mr. Manning, Mr. Walker,
and Mr. Cohen are, perhaps, the three most likely
men from whom the new judge may be chosen.
Mr. Manning has gone circuit before now as an
acting-judge. Mr. Walker is said to be one of the
ablest and most conscientious men at the Equity
Bar, and is in large practice; but possibly to Mr. H.
E. Cohen the commercial finger would point as the
most competent to All the position of Bankruptcy
Judge. Mr. Cohen, before his call to the bar in
1871, had a high commercial training, has been a
Minister of the Crown, and as Treasurer in the
Earned, and Minister for Justice in the Stuart,
Administrations proved himself a very capable
man. He is in the prime of life (50 years of age),
a man of independent means, keen in business,
and from his early training not likely to be “ had ”
by the class of people who would chiefly be suitors
in his Ooui’t. He has also had much judicial
experience, having for a considerable time credit-
ably occupied an acting District Court judgeship.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Jo.”
Her Majesty's “Henry V.”
Criterion “The Pickpocket.”
Opera House London Pavilion Co.
School of Arts Snazelle.
Cycloram a “Battle of Gettysburg”
Crystal Palace Hall Baby Show.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera Plouse “ The Royal Guard.”
Princess’ .. “ Little Lord Fauntleroy.”
Theatre Royal “ Human Nature.”
Alexandra .... “ The Beggar Student."
Exhibition The Silbon-Stirks, &c.
St. George’s Hall Professor Kennedy.
It is some years since “ Jo ” was last pro-
duced in Sydney, and its reproduction is, to some
extent, less harmonious than on a prior occasion.
As Evangelist Varley would probably put it, this
is a vale of tears, and most people visit theatres
simply to get away from themselves, in order to
dethrone care, for a time, from his monotonous
mental pre-eminence. Were it otherwise—were
this a mad, merry world—then would “ Jo”be the
most successful financial production of the age, for
no stage representation with which we are
acquainted appeals so incessantly to the emotions,
to the humanitarianism latent in every son and
daughter of man. The character is taken from
the life and drawn all too faithfully ; this world is
full of “Joes” and “Smikes” forever chivvied and
moved on, cruelly punished for daring to
live, robbed of every natural right by inequit-
able social conditions, and inevitably fore-
ordained to perish beneath the wheels of
the Social Juggernaut. The social state that
creates “ Sir Leicester Dedlocks ” and starv-
ing crossing-sweepers is arraigned at the bar of
public opinion by the genius of Dickens, and
universally condemned in the sighs, the tears of
every listener. Miss Jennie Lee —who is “Jo,”
and has so identified herself with the part that we
question her ability to disassociate herself from it
■ —may not be aware of it, but she is, nevertheless,
preaching as vigorously from the text of social
democracy as any reformer that ever breathed,
from the Galilean fisherman to the hero of the
dockyard strike.
# * «-
“Jo” introduces to a Sydney public
several new actors and actresses, of whom J. H.
Clyndes has most reputation. In appearance and
manner he much resembles Mr. Lawrence, but his
“ Tulkinghorn is so colourless and mechanical
that we should prefer to see him in another part
ere attempting to say much either for or against
him. Mr. Bolton’s Chadband promised to be
taking ere drowned by the gallery, and George
Walton’s Guppy was good. Of the new actresses
Flora Hastings as Horfense was the most attrac-
tive, and Mrs. Bolton, as the housekeeper, was evi-
dently not inclined to sacrifice her beauty at the
shrine of faithful representation. Miss Ada Ward’s
Lady Dedlock is not bewilderingly successful,
Maggie Knight’s Gusta was creditable, and Bur-
nett’s Bucket has shrivelled sadly.
& sH- &
The revival of Henry V. at Her Majesty’s
is unfortunate. The piece, staged in a style which
custom has rendered familiar, is more feebly re-
presented than on any previous occasion. Not
only are most of the principals, including George
Rignold, far from letter-perfect, but characters of
weight and prominence are placed in the hands of
those whose structural development and faulty
articulation seriously handicap them. There is
much feeble striving after the expression of various
dialects in this production. In one scene where
an alleged Welshman converses with a libel on a
Scotchman, assisted by a burlesque Irishman, and
an Anglo-Dutch Briton, the mixture was side-split-
ting, for theconversationalistsexchanged “brogues”
as the people of to-day do visiting-cards, and how
the actively-employed prompter could distinguish
Fluellen from Macmorris no one. in front could say.
To crown all, when a supposed Frenchman came on
in high-heeled shoes and a Cork accent, it seemed
likely that Henry was weak in dates and that in-
stead of St. Crispin’s Day it must be the feast of
Pentecost. The great “George ” in a new tin suit —
white-smithing must be booming—as usual fills the
stage, rebukes the dilatory “ supers” with dignity,
and plays with his usual force and fire. The clerical
actor, whose physical attributes, culture and in-
telligence, should lift him above the many
physically incapacitated who throng the stage,
ejects his words from his mouth as boys do pellets,
two at a time, while the movements of his arms
resembles those of one who is getting into a tight
top-coat. The Williams of Harry Jewett is a fine,
bold performance, but his brogue is just a little
too far North for an Australian audience. Phil
Beck is impressive, Bessie Colville’s boy is in-
teresting, and Sweeney’s Pistol occasionally reminis-
cent of Bartlett; as for the rest, silence. Although
Henry Fifth seems in high favour with the
leathern-palmed ushers at the back of the dress
circle, we cannot predict for it a long run. By
arrangement with the Messrs. MacMahon, “Held
by the Enemy,” written by an American play-
writer, Gillette, is in active preparation.
B* * Be-
ninese, evident to everyone, even in front,
has caused Mrs. Brough to withdraw from the
name part in “ Sophia ” at the Sydney Criterion.
Her sister, Emma Temple, has taken her place,
and, perhaps, had we not seen Mrs. B. in the part
we should not feel so inclined to say hard things
of her as we do at present. The travelling Nor-
wood’s shoes, as Black George, are also re-filled but
shufflingly by Mr. Chichester. Nevertheless, the
bright comedy continues to draw large houses.
Tom Jones is admirably depicted by Cecil
Ward, particularly in the first act, where
he is, possibly, furnished with his strongest
opportunity. A less agreeable character,
perhaps even more difficult to represent,
and quite as well performed, is Boucicault’s
Squire Western, according to a sporting contem-
porary, a Yorkshire farmer. Next in point of
sustained interest is Titheradge’s Partridge and
Pattie Brown’s Honour, less heavy than some of


John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
XiA.]\rD AGENTS,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &o.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed List Businesses for Sale issued Baity.
All Lists posted Free on application.
American Elgin Watches. Awarded two
Gold Medals, Melbourne Centennial International
Exhibition, 1888, being higher awards than any
other Exhibition of Watches obtained.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate.
IF YOU ARB NERVOUS,
and cannot sleep, try it.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
OATLEY LAND SALE— Saturday. October 19
PEEE TZR-Ajrnsr TICKETS -A-lETD IPLAdsTS.
GARRARD & HAMILTON, 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
this little lady’s late efforts. The Misses Romer
and Seocombe continue to deserve the praise
already apportioned to them. This (Saturday)
evening the “Pickpocket,” that huge joke from
first to last line will be staged. Anson replaces
Harwood as the want-to-sit-down valetudinarian,
and the inimitable soup-sah waiter of Boucicault
will again come to the fore.
-» $ fie *
At Sydney School of Arts Snazelle’s
“ Scenery, Song, Story, Mirth and Music ” is the
sort of entertainment that should attract, in ad-
dition to the ordinary show-going public, those
who’d just as soon book themselves for Sheol with-
out return as enter a theatre. The “ unco-guid ’
are numerous in Sydney, and we can only account
for their absence from this refined and novel per-
formance by supposing that they do not care to
patronise one who is wicked enough to show on
Sunday. This monologuist has introduced many
admirably rendered songs and recitations hitherto
unknown to Sydney audiences ; for this we are
duly grateful, being weary of the old so per-
sistently dished-up items. Tho “ Traveller’s
Tale,” from Balfe’s “ Siege of Rochelle,” is
a remarkably fine specimen of patter - sing-
ing, and likely to become a favourite num-
ber! The pictures are indescribable. One
set of Parisian views, including the Eiffel Tower
and other Exhibition scenes is just now particu-
larly interesting, while the passage of the Dover
packet, with heaving waves and a pitching vessel,
is realistic enough to evoke loud calls of “Stew-
ard !” from a susceptible Another re-
markable feature is the introduction of moving
figures into stationary landscapes. Smokers emit
clouds of tobacco “reek,” graveyards give up their
dead, and angels float over sleeping babes with a
buoyancy that would charm a pigeon-fancier.
Snazelle has a never-failing fund of dry humour,
but apparently hankers more for the elucidation
of the pathetic and melancholy than the laughter-
provoking. This is a financial blunder. Tear-
compellers just now glut the market, and folks are
dying for someone to tickle them into a temporary
forgetfulness of sublunary woes. This Friday
night will be a military one, and two hundred
gilt-edged warriors will probably attend.
Johnny Solomon’s Sydney Baby Show
opens at the Darlinghurst Hall on Wednesday,
the 23rd, and remains open for four days. The
entries are numerous :
A Melbourne paper states that the unsuc-
cessful mothers mobbed the mamma of the prize-
baby, at Dampier’s show, “for whose protection
three constables had to be called into requisition.”
We see nothing to be surprised at, every mother
thinks her baby the most beautiful that ever
breathed, and every reflection on its looks is an in-
sult for which only blood can atone. Did not
good old Dr. Watts-his-name say—■
The W., G. and M. Opera Company opened
with “Dorothy,” in Brisbane Opera House, on
Tuesday last. ‘ ‘ Pepita,” ‘ ‘ Yeoman of the Guard,”
&c., to follow. The show, so far, has drawn good
houses of all sorts and conditions of people, from
Mount Morgan millionaires to whistling larrikins.
The contingent are in charge of the third person
of the mighty three, yea, even the Musgrove him-
self.
*■ * * *■
On Saturday afternoon, Professor Jackson
makes his second parachute descent from a balloon
inflated with 20,000 cubic feet of gas, which will
ascend from the Ashtield Recreation-grounds at
4 o’clock. The wily Wyburd, the lessee, intends
to make things hum during the Summer months.
** * *
“ Pygmalion and Galatea, ” at Melbourne
Princess s, affords further proof that the local
Press was manipulating very ordinary clay when
it converted Miss Janet Achurch into an idol, and
vainly besought the populace to fall prostrate at
her somewhat flat tootsies. As the marble statue,
made human during a thunderstorm, Miss
Achurch is not a circumstance upon many other
ladies who have been let loose in Pygmalion s
studio for the purpose of showing how much
domestic misery might be chipped out with a
chisel. The new actress neither looks, talks,
walks, nor shapes herself in statuesque style. Her
classic sheet is inelegant and bunchy in its flow.
Her innocence of worldly things is more sugges-
tive of a maiden aunt than of a seventeen-year-old
image, and her general manner is that of the irre-
proachable slim female who studies the dead
languages in a first-class railway carriage. Miss
Achurch is undoubtedly clever and earnest in her
work, but she doesn’t appear to be possessed of
that indefinable charm which would incite the
adoring dude to blow her a respectful kiss
from afar off. Furthermore, Miss A. hasn’t
the majestic stride of goddess Diana and
when she wants to travel fast it is
much the same as Mary’s little lamb on roller-
skates. These remarks only apply to Miss
Achurch in her capacity of daily-newspaper
divinity. Regarded as an energetic young woman,
with an unpleasing voice and a natural turn for the
stage, she deserves to have her praises discreetly
sung in a minor key. Miss Maud Williamson is a
sweet and powerful Cynisca, filling the character
with more womanly feeling than any predecessor
who can be called to memory. Something of old
Buckstone’s unctuous humour pervades Mr. Fred.
Neebe’s performance of Chrysos, but he doesn’t
give that doddering old patron of art a touch of
bloated pride, as Elton used to do. Mrs. Walter
Hill, however, tries to make it appear that Chrysos
married his cook, which would account for his ab-
sence of frill. Mr. Charrington is unavoidably
flabby as Pygmalion, and the show expires on
Friday, giving place to more fresh arrivals in
“ Little Lord Fauntleroy.”
-* * & *
“ Human Nature,” at the Royal, seems to
be firing away as furiously as ever. At rapid
intervals a great, black gloom comes over this
drama, and a peaceful baby-farm is changed into a
lawyer’s office or an arid Soudan. But this ex-
pensive shifting of furniture and landscape makes
no difference to the plot which might as well be
worked out in a balloon so long as the British
soldiery were giving the Arabs fits. The adult
company don’t count for much in the midst of
this indescribable confusion, most of the applause
being divided between the scenery and a cheery
kid named Nicholls, who sang “ Killaloe” in the
pantomime. Nicholls is alleged to belong to the
feminine gender, and enjoys the additional dis-
tinction of being under 10 years of age. “ Beggar
Student ” is running its fourth week to inflated
business at the Alexandra. The opera has lacked
a little of its usual violence lately owing to Knight
Aston having caught a cold, which interferes with
his voluminous voice in a measure. This calamity
is put up with, however, because it allows the
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENG, CO., 8 BRIDCE-ST.. SYDNEY.
MR. JOHNNY SOLOMON.
(Promoter of the Sydney Baby Show.)
drum to get a long-needed look in. Professor
Kennedy continues to stick needles through his
stiffened subjects, also to sit upon their degraded
carcases at St. George’s Hall. A “ pig-faced boy ”
is wallowing in public wonder at the Royal
Museum, and the Cyclorama has inspired the
vice-regal Wobinson to write, “ I cannot suffi-
ciently express my admiration ” in a visitors’ book.
The Bulletin feels just like that on the subject
of Wobinson.
* * &
“A Fool’s Revenge” does a legitimate
kind of business at the Opera House, and when
the curtain descends upon Bertucoio’s cold, mis-
shapen remains at 10.30 sharp, the house gives
vent to its appreciation of Mr. Miln’s final
struggles in a burst of stamping. This is generally
prolonged until the jester’s lop-sided corpse limps
round the corner to bow, as a guarantee that he
isn’t too dead to do it all over again next evening.
On Saturday the American actor, Mr. Edwin
Thorne, makes his appearance here in “The Royal
Guard,” a drama built up on “ The Three
Musketeers.” Mr. Thorne’s melodramatic method
is reputed to be strong and quite fresh to these
parts, where a new system in stage heroics is
wanted badly. “The Royal Guard” is to be on
duty for a fortnight only, however, while “Antony
and Cleopatra ” are saving themselves up for their
guilty picnic on the banks of the Nile.
** * *
The Baby Show at Melbourne Exhibition
Building paved the way, apparently, for another
great shilling boom on the same premises. Messrs.
MaoMahon and Lyons have set up the whole
Silbon-Stirk entertainment —now much better dis
played than hitherto in Melbourne—together with'
educated horses, kangaroos, electric fountains
and similar joys. This galaxy of attractions, in
eluding Walter Silbon’s leap from the dome, is
cheap at a shilling, and the people are rolling up
religiously in company with their girls. The Ex-
hibition is a prime favourite with girls, probably
because it abounds in strange' places, where Adol-
phus can tell his love when he feels so disposed.
All this time, too, the Midgets are holding
two receptions a day at the Athemeum. The re-
ception mostly consists of listening to a rather long
gentleman troubled with whiskers, who relates the
history of General and Mrs. Mite in a language
remarkable for dullness and want of consideration
for the little creatures’ feelings. Mrs. Mite is a
thorough little lady, considering that her adver-
tised weight is something under a stone. The
General is the same remarkable morsel of intelli-
gent humanity who was formerly exhibited in
London with Lucia Farate. The General has put
on some 31bs. of flesh since then, and looks to be
taller until he comes down from the Athenaeum
stage. He explains that he isn’t any taller, and
can comfortably wear the very coat he wore when
Lucia used to'flop her blushing head upon his
shoulder. Lucia was not pretty —not a patch upon
Mrs. Mite, physically or mentally—but she was a
very light and airy maiden. She weighed four
pounds and three-quarters. Several other shows,
such as Wirth’s Circus, are about to start for the
“Cup” season.
During the enervating summer months the
exhilarating effects of Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
cannot fail to be recognised.
Johnny Solomon’s “Royal Museum and
Palace of Amusement,” George-street, Sydney
will be formally opened on Saturday, 19th. Some-
thing gorgeous may be anticipated.
It much amused The Bulletin to see
“ The Vagabond ” start his savage little letter in
re Traill’s dissertation on “ Big Game in San
Francisco,” by saying that “I read with deep
pain and regret the article by Mr. W. H. Traill,”
&c.,. <fee, —considering that the letter in question
afforded Julian a long-waited-for opportunity of
paying back a small instalment of the debt that
he owed to the writer of those wickedly satirical
articles in the D.D. Gazette ever so many years
ago.
Upon the stone erected over the grave
the late Mrs. Hull (who nursed the Prince of
Wales and many others of the Royal family) it is
recorded that “ She rendered humble, true, and
laudable service as nurse in the household of
Queen Victoria,” while on a certain tablet at
Balmoral the late John Brown is spoken of as Her
Majesty’s “beloved friend.” Why this differ-
ence ? Can it be because no woman ever felt that
she was really the sincere friend of any other
woman ?
The Australian contributions to the strike
fund must have created a tremendous sensation in
London, for Reynolds, in its issue of September
Ist, is most enthusiastic over £l5O received from
Brisbane Wharf Labourers’ Union, £lOO from
Brisbane Seamen’s Union, and £5OO from Sydney
Wharf Labourers’ Union. Devoting half-a-column
to the subject, the organ of world-wide labour con-
cludes thus; —“This magnificent action of the
most advanced and most prominent of the colonies
has given an impetus to the movement the force
of which cannot yet be estimated ; and the cheers
with which the announcements were received at
Poplar, where the committee meet, willbe grate*
ful to our loving friends in the Antipodes.”
Of babies young, who look quite old,
Of angels shy and demons bold,
Of infants yellow, brown, and red,
And speckled, who were best in bed ;
Of bouncers bald and armsful hairy,
Of Sophonisba, Bill, and Sairey ;
Of those to bottle who’ve resource,
And those who drink from Nature’s source;
Of babbies tender with mothers tough—
The Lord be praised, Sol’s got enough.
But, mothers, you should never let
Your angry passions rise,
E’en tho’ a freckled baoy robs
Your darling of the prize.
At Poverty Point.
Harry Edwards, the veteran actor and butterfly cot
lector, having returned to Melbourne from ’Frisco, an im
mense shoal of brown butterflies swarmed down on Mel-
bourne from the bush last week There were millions
upon millions of ’em. Heard of Edwards, no doubt.
Cruelly says Manager Garner: —“ The humble theatre-
inspecting official is fond of looking round the theatres,
and discovering a screw loose, which done, he says:
1 Well, Mr. Garner, this really is not as it should be ; I
ought to report you, but I would rather not; be sure and
put it right; and, by the way, could you let me have
three passes for to-night?’ ”
Professor Kennedy has a smart, dark-eyed daughter,
who should be able to mesmerise most fellows a lot quicker
than “ papa” can. Talking of the Professor, it made one
feel creepy to observe him running his awful eye over the
Melbourne Baby Show. He didn’t gently plug the little
innocents in the eye, and say: “Now, sir 1 do you feel
different to usual ?” That would have made them drop
their bottles and stiffen right there. The Professor was
content to fight for a place in front of the biggest exhibits
and make ’em feel just moderately bad. The Champion
Baby fell under the mysterious influence to such an ex-
tent that Dr. Maloney exhorted the multitude to “ give
the child air.” He thought it was being suffocated.
Biles, of" Melbourne, writes us that Janet Achurch is
disgusted with moving from the Princess’s to that hateful
barn, the Royal. She is to act Rosalind in “As You Like
It.” The impression is that W. 6. and M. always put their
best leg foremost at the Princess’s. Therefore, &e.
It is said that the Melbourne Board of Health intend to
enforce its provisions with regard to the employment of
children of tender years in theatres. It is probable that a
prosecution will take place over Baby Nicholls, 10 years
of age, the “ Child Wonder,” at the Theatre Royal. What
about Grandma Good-limbs, the nimble nonagenarian,
who skips “mid nodings on” in the front row of the
ballet ? Is second childhood to be unprotected ?
Says Mrs. Kendal in her reminiscences:—“lra Aldridge
eing black always picked out the fairest woman he could
find to play Desdemona with him. One of his great bits
of ‘ business ’ was where he had to say, ‘Your hand, Des
demona.’ He made a point of opening his hand and
making you place yours in it, and the audience used to
see the contrast and applaud vigorously. Although a
genuine black, he was quite preitx chevalier in his
manners to women. The fairer you were the more obse-
quious he was to you. In the last act he used to take
Desdemona out of bed by her hair and drag her round the
stage before he smothered her.” The chivalrous darkey
who drags women around by the hair is an addition to our
comic-portrait gallery. By the way, Ira Aldridge’s son
was a schoolmaster in Victoria years ago, but he didn’t
get along very well.
Demos Palmer, of Melbourne, announces that the new
number pf his Imperial Review will be out in a few days.
The bill of fare includes the original and only John Garra-
way, with the first act of his play, “ Victoria, the Girl
Queen,” so well puffed beforehand by a column-long
notice in the London Daily News, on the extracts in a
former Imperial. Palmer has another genius in the
shape of one Felix Patrick, who announces that he
will shortly supply the antidote to Garraway with the
first act of a great Australian drama, entitled, “Peter
Lalor, and the Battle of Eureka Stockade.” The first
scene is at Toorak, introducing Governor Sir Chas.
Hotham, Lady Hotham, and Sir William Stawell. The
second scene is a big political meeting in the Eastern
Market. The third scene is in the large tent within the
Eureka Stockade, Ballarat, with the taking of the oath of
allegiance, under Peter Lalor, to the Australian
flag of the Republic. Here ends the first act. The
second will carry us on to the battle at the Stockade. The
third act concerns the trial and acquittal of the “ rioters ’
in Melbourne. Here is a dramatic material with a ven-
geance—a virgin field. The flag of the Australian Re-
public is represented as made by the fair hands of Lalor’s
betrothed. This banner of the Southern Cross waves
unavailingly, for the time being, over the Stockade. A
leading scene will be that where the wounded Lalor
crawls into the bush to die—but, of course, he doesn’t.
Ought to knock ’em.
There was a very “cronk” singer in Melbourne who
had never risked crossing the border. One night at a
local music hall he had just come off after yowling some
song. Addressing a performer who was standing around
he asked him what he thought of his top note and how it
would pass in Sydney. “ Oh,” replied the other, “you’d
lose sixpence on it.”
He was supposed to be an intelligent super, so he was
given an announcement as a footman. He was to enter
and announce “The Count de Lavelle.” Night came and
he entered and said “The Count de Level!” “Who?”
he was asked. “ Fow’eard,” he replied disgustedly and
left the stage—for ever, let us hope.
E. H. Vinson a well-known property-man in the employ
of W.G. and M., died in Melbourne lately.
Harry Power has joined Bland Holt’s company in New
Zealand.
The Dampiers are showing in Sandhurst to good houses.
“ The Royal Pardon ” is their big feature.
At latest dates young Aubrey Boucicault was playing
brother Dot’s part in Betsy, at a London theatre.
The triumvirate’s long-bottled-up prima-donna Miss
Clara Merivale comes out of her shell at Brisbane.
Messrs. Roberts and Co., the well-known
wholesale ironmongers, have added another orna-
ment to Sydney in the shape of a new three-story
warehouse, between Hay and Engine-streets.
The three floors combined give a floor-space of
over 45,000 square feet. Entering from Hay-street
on the left may be noted a great many shelves
divided by partitions into small fixtures which
contain an endless variety of bolts and nuts, rivets,
&c. On the right, all kinds of buggy-springs and
axles, cast and wrought-iron pulleys, wire-rope
for mines, &o. Further on, the new iron-
rack which, when fully loaded, contains over
5000 tons of all kinds of iron. Ascending to the
second flat, attention is drawn to what is called
the “shelf goods” department. Fitted to each
wall are shelves filled with all descriptions of
hardware, engineers’ fittings, builders’ ironmon-
gery, brassware, American hardware, carpenters’
tools, &c. In front of these fixtures are four long-
counters, which reach from Hay-street to Engine-
street. These are divided underneath and tightly
packed with all kinds of goods, and on the top
of each is displayed an endless variety of articles.
In the “ coachbuilders’” department all kinds
of spokes, rims, hubs, &c., are displayed. On
the third floor is the “black”ironmongery depart-
ment ; containing pots, kettles, fenders, grates, and
many other household articles. The firm’s bulk
stores cover two acres on the opposite side of
Engine-street. In these are stored steel and iron
boiler plates, iron girders for buildings, and casks
and cases innumerable. On page 18 we show a
view of the Engine-street entrance —we might also
mention that the building has been erected by
Mr, W. Phillips, of Balmain, the well-known con-
tractor.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
GOLD MEDAL PARIS EXHIBITION AWARDED
SUNLIGHT SOAP.
Invite your friends and neighbours to see you wash
clothes with Sunlight soap. Let them see you soap the
clothes well, then roll them up in a tight roll, and put
under the water and left for half an hour, then taken out
and rinsed. It will be quite a curiosity for them to see a
wash done without the necessity of scalding or boiling a
single piece, no matter how dirty or soiled.
Some Special Uses of the “Sunlight Soap.”— Used in
the Dairy it will keep churns, cheese vats, and milk pans
beautifully bright and clean. Used in the Sick Room it
acts as a Disinfectant. Used in the Stable it will keep
manes and tails clean and silky, and seal sores and
scratches. Use it for washing prize dogs and poultry, and
it will improve them as no other soap can. Use it for
taking out grease spots, and for keeping linoleums and
oilcloths clean and bright. Use it everywhere where soap
can be used and it will always give satisfaction. If you
prefer to boil the clothes, remember this soap will give
better results than any other.
WOLFB’S schnapps,
■ - -»■ ' 0
—A—
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
A Melbourne “Club.”
In these latter days, Melbourne Bohemian-
ism has a habit of haunting “Mrs. Lane’s,” an
old-established drinking institution which nestles
beside the Argus office, catches odours of sanctity
from the adjacent Telegraph, and seems to breathe
the ardent spirit of the Age, albeit the lofty
temple of Syme is more than twenty yards distant.
So situated, “Lane’s” is an unconventional club
rather than a pub—a place where men who walk
not in the most beaten tracks of life find rest by
the way. True, there is no entrance-fee, nor any
doorkeeper save the rosella, a nicely-behaved bird
whose nature has been softened by feminine manage-
ment until he can’t curse. A sober stranger may
stroll right in and ballot himself a member of the
club by simply “putting a name to his lotion. ’
If he be an unsophisticated customer, destitute of
soul, he will presently walk out again, unconscious
that he has trodden holy ground and not under-
standing that the careworn individual who inad-
vertently expectorated upon his (the stranger's)
boot was a police-court reporter for the ’Erald.
Only by the Brotherhood is that spacious homely
room recognised as a club. ’Tis a cool place, not
much troubled by garish sunlight or flies. In such
retreats the journalistic violet doth delight to
bloom, for a modest flower is he.
Long-haired sons of harmony charge the club
with electricity, particularly on Liedertafel and
Victorian Orchestra nights. Frenzy is in their
eye, and to shake hands with them is better than
a penn’orth of galvanic battery.. Here the Koval
Society of Musicians of Australasia —consisting
of Alfred Plumpton, Zerbini, and Julius Her/.
—hold informal meetings, and gaze in mutual
admiration through their three pairs of spectacles.
They comprise tire everlasting life of the aforesaid
Society, having somehow elected themselves per-
petual directors by the grace of Mrs. Lane. They
take their refreshments, do that trio, in the joyful
hope of bossing the Angel Choir hereafter. Julius
is to conduct, Zerbini will act as accompanist,
while Plumpton (closely watched by Evangelist
Varley, meanwhile) manufactures criticisms fuller
of metaphor than of meaning for the celestial Age.
Glancing at Zerbini one is apt to wonder what
sort of vision he will make when his wings are in
full feather.
Near to these Immortals may be observed Max
Klein, spreading his limited proportions upon a
couch as he toys gracefully with a very back
number of the Graphic. Klein was Cowen’s
chosen disciple, and he scrapes first violin in the
Orchestra. After heavy suppers' he dreams that
Paganini is building laurel wreaths around his
brow. Tall Hamilton Clarke, fresh from “ home,”
strikes British attitudes about the club on great
musician nights. Just as Cowen used Jo lean
against the front bar counter and witch his idola-
ters with yarns of what he said to the Prince of
Wales, so does Hamilton Clarke, his successor,
relate how Gounod “often asked me to play that
minuet from my First Symphony.” Perchance
David Lee comes across to recuperate, after
knocking Sheol out of the Town Hall organ. Not
a lord in all the country is half so great as David
Lee. When he shall happen to breathe his last
the municipal stop short, never to
go again, like Grandfather s Clock. To all these,
and to the musical cult in general, does Mrs. Lane
seriously incline. ’Twas said that poor Keiley, of
the Argus, wrote his notices under the personal
supervision of that tall and stately woman. Un-
doubtedly the profession has gradually learned to
welcome her as a kind of long—so long—lost
mother, while tier twcTcomely daughters are objects
of considerable brotherly admiration.
The far, raised end of the club-room is assigned
to literature, and (rumour asserts again that the
Archimedean lever is worked by petticoaLpower.
At Mrs. Lane’s nod the Press often administers
“beans” to the Emperor of Russia, a potentate
for whom she has the profoundest contempt.
That Telegraph ideas on “ woman suffrage ” are
directly inspired by the eldest daughter—who sup-
plies the coffee and plain sodas to that melancholy
publication which seem to be an article of faith
among the initiated. When Mrs. Lane, or one of
her offspring, expresses a desire for a change of
Ministry, the glory of Duncan Gillies will begin
to fade. At any moment a feminine headache of
unusual severity may cause the awful fiat to go
forth, and change the whole political aspect of a
colony. Much lofty thinking goes on in this por-
tion of the club. The theological leaders which
Lambie does for the Argus —trifles light and airy
as a ton of coals—are hatched under that reformed
preacher’s hat as he sits for hours together in his
accustomed corner. In a privileged nook, cooling
their ample feet against the ice-safe, Stephens, the
Age sub., discusses parliamentary programmes
with Allen, chief of the staff. There is a certain
mysterious Guy Fawkes appearance about the
deliberations of these influential persons, and they
strike matches with the air of men about to fire a
train of gunpowder and lay the Constitution in
ruins.
“Telemaohus” is another constant lounger at
the club, where he finds the divine afflatus neces-
sary to the production of “ Notes and Comments.”
Perhaps he was musing at his particular side-
table when it occurred to him that “The conclu-
sion of the Landells case is painful as satisfactory. ”
That beautiful sentiment bears the Argus trade-
mark. What a satisfactory conclusion is hanging !
“ Telemaohus ” is not naturally a man of gallows
mind, but he has been engaged to gloat over the
Law taking its due course, &c., and he gloats to
order. A notable Age man, often to be found
near the dull writing-table, is Captain Garnet, of
the Art and War Departments. The warrior is
not what he was in the old days, when he conduc-
ted his volunteers into the deadly breach of Hyde
Park. On account of his campaign experiences,
however, Garnet is an important circumstance at
Langwarrin Encampments, where he defends v he
canteen at all risks and seeks the bubble reputa-
tion even at the bottle’s mouth. Harry Short,
editor of the Leader —he is somewhat of an
Adonis as journalists go—may be singled out
from a motley crowd of genius in its various
Jages of growth or decay. A host of aspirants
loomed to discover narrow escapes from tramway
accidents and record the daily doings of drunks
for the Standabd and ’Ebald are honorary mem-
bers of the club.
Representatives of “art” come and go at all
hours. The Scotchman who carries his massive
walking-stick to a side-table is J. E. Patterson.
He tells strange yarns in a tremulous falsetto, and
occasionally warbles a barbarous ballad entitled
“Wearenae fou.” Maokennal, the modeller, is
quite a feature of the club forever casting critical
glances at a bronze statuette, which stands upon a
bracket near the screen. Taken all round, the
artists are an interesting-looking lot, in whom
there is more whisky than guile.
A medical staff pay periodical visits to the club.
Dr. Wilmot, tall and straight, comes to feel its
pulse, and the occasional presence of great little
Springthorpe gives a sciency glamor to the restful
surroundings. Any young member not feeling
well has only to await the inevitable arrival of L.
L. Smith, who can tell him, without hesitation,
that the symptoms are as follows. Pills rattle in
L.L.’s pockets as ho stands at the bar. Frisky
oldsters of the Zox and Butters tribe generally
drop in by daylight, whereas the drama gets there
towards closing time. The drama carries bad
threepenny cigars in its pocket, and for these
noisome weeds are puny, casual notices —such as
“ Mr So-and-so plays a small part with great care
and intelligence ” —bought and sold at the club.
The long official notices, as everybody knows, are
regulated in their enthusiastic praise according to
the length of the theatre manager’s advt.
Not the least remarkable member of this club
is Augustus Sleight, undertaker by appointment
to . His Excellency. Like the mummy at an
Egyptian feast, Augustus rolls up to remind
revellers that the worm dieth and all flesh is grass.
When sweet “ Chloe ” Lane serves Augustus with
his mixture he turns a cold boiled gaze upon the
HER DAY OUT.
Bridget dies and arrives at the gate of Paradise. St, Peter appears,
BRIDGET: “IS THIS HEAVEN?”
ST. PETER: “IT IS. COME IN.”
BRIDGET: “OT WILL, AETHER YE TELL ME, PLAZE, HOW MANY
NIGHTS OUT YEZ GIVE EVERY WAKE ? ”
damsel and mentally takes her measure. She
would indeed look delicious in her shell, thinks
Augustus. The famous undertaker is a whole-
some influence at the club. Even the most care-
less, reckless members involuntarily raise their
hats when Augustus passes by, and murmur “ All
is vanity saith the Preacher.” —(See illustration,
page 11.)
Non-Professional Sport: Racing for
Poor Men.
The Bulletin has stated, not once, but
frequently, that pony-races should have no official
recognition by the Turf. The writer doubts not
that The B. will hear the opinion of one who has
seen a lot of different sorts of racing.
* # *
A distinguished cavalry-officer, now prob-
’ ably Adjutant-General of the Pegasus Light
Angels, used to state, “ Donkeys or mules, snails
or beetles, so long as they are matched ; I dearly
love a race.” His bet was “ a chic,” corruption of
“ chequin,” being four rupees, whence he got the
name of Steady Chic. I agree with him, that as
much fun can be got out of ponies as out of horses.
I go further, and have this very week been trying
to persuade a committee to have the Hack Race
made a Claiming Race, i.e. winner or any horse to
be claimed by nominator of any other horse in the
race at £5; two or more claimants to decide
by lots. This would stop the annual benefit of a
neighbouring racing man who enters a fifty-guinea
horse to run against bushies’ crocks. But the
committee are in it, and my roan horse Ruin will
run second or third.
# # *
When I was in India, twenty years ago, I
imagine the racing was rather different from now.
At the largest up-country meeting a professional
had to carry 51bs. or 71bs. extra, and a groom,
trooper, or nigger counted as a professional. We
didn’t care twopence, or even half that sum, about
the breed of horses. We wanted sport. In
Mooltan there was a “ Gymkhana ” (derived from
gymnasium and khana, a place) every Thursday
afternoon. All matches were decided then. I
won a bullock-race there, 100 yards heats, riders
to wear colours and sharp spurs. T came in
first in the second heat, but I claimed a cross and
it was upheld. We used to match anything. Of
course it’s not sport, but it’s fun.
Now, as regards the ponies. There were three
distinct races at all large meetings—Lilliputs, 13
hands and under; ponies, 13-2 and under ; Gallo-
ways, 14 hands and under. The allowance was
generally 41b. per half-inch, but I always advo-
cated a pound more. Often an Arab would get
sneaked in among the whole three, notably one
“ Ivanhoe ” exactly 13 hands. But in his quarters
he was a horse.
* # *
Then came the “ give and take ” : 14
hands 2 inches to carry lOst. 71b., and 71b. allowed
per inch either way. This gave Arabs a show
against country-breds, Walers, and English horses.
But it was a poor, poor show, and if the advertise-
ments of a certain Arab stud horse (inN.S. Wales)
are true, racing must have changed a good deal in
a score of years. Remember, I am talking of
Mofussil or country meetings. 1 never could
bring the Arabs and Walers together, and I’ve
handicapped for 50 meetings. But we had also
Buggy Stakes for bona-fide harness horses, Charger
Stakes for registered chargers, Ladies’ Stakes for
horses that had been regularly ridden by ladies,
and there was never any doubt about the qualifi-
cations of these three sorts. A certificate from
any officer or Civil servant was quite enough, for
we had protection, inasmuch as Coventry modern-
ised into Boycott would punish a civilian and the
Commander-In-Chief would fix the military delin-
quent for conduct unbecoming, &c.
# * »
What I want to drive at now is that per-
sons of the one-horse calibre ought to start “ un*
registered ” meetings. This, of course, would be
howled down by owners of strings of racediorses,
but it would be backed up by plenty of stockmen,
boundary-riders, and other bushmen who have a
fiver to throw away on the chance of winning 20
“ quid.” At such a meeting the condition might
even be made, that no horse that had ever run in
or been entered for a registered meeting be allowed
to run. There would be terribly hard s wearing-
and fighting over this, but even those objection-
able items are sport to some. In the meantime
my Bulletin, if ponies are undersized racehorses’
there would be nothing ridiculous in having
regattas for dwarf oarsmen if you could find enough
of the breed. I don’t suppose Beach & Co. would
start to feed their children on gin in order to have
a likely pony-sculler, but let me have my race
You know that officers and gentlemen have raced
cheese-maggots on the chess-table. They had no
other animals to race, and the cocks had all been
killed and eaten. This was at sea.
# * *
By the way, at the risk of degrading my.
self to zero in your estimation, I have to confess
that I like^ cock-fighting. I had a Hindoo mosque
converted into a pit and (I was then in the flesh),
naughty Bill T and I had many a main. I
know it’s cruel but what did the roosters fight
for, if not for sport ? Sir William Mansfield, now
Lord Sandhurst (if he’s not dead) put a stop to
mir little game and gamecocks.
HIRAM ABUFF.
Is marriage a failure ? “ Last week, at Los
Angeles, a married woman eloped with her coach-
man, in consequence of which her husband shot
himself. The next day his daughter, who was
also in love with the coachman, went insane, while
the servant girl, who was, in turn, gone on the
defunct husband, tried to drown herself three
times. —- U. S. Paper.
Snowdon, the highest of the Welsh moun-
tains, was sold by auction a few months ago, and
a parson started the bidding. Fancy a man, who
alleges that the “ earth is the Lord’s,” offering
cash down for a mountain! Let us charitably
assume that the good shepherd wanted to dwell
upon the pinnacle of this heap of dirt in order to
be near the other angels.
Writes a Bulletin correspondent:—
The principle upon which R.C. bishops are appointed to
the British colonies has been altered since the death of
Cardinal Cullen. After the Garibaldian troubles in Italy,
Dr. Cullen became a kind of British Pope. He had lived
30 years in Home, and Pius IX. knew him and had a lot of
confidence in him. When he was made Archbishop of
Dublin he was appointed permanent “Apostolic delegate
for the kingdom of Ireland,” which meant that he had
plenary powers in that island in ecclesiastical matters.
Dr. Cullen then nominated all the bishops for the British
colonies. Colonial bishoprics he regarded as the legiti-
mate perquisites of deserving curates and secretaries who
could never hope to obtain the mitre at home, where the
bishop of each diocese is virtually elected by the parish
p iests. In this way he made Canon Grimley, of
St. Paul’s, Dublin, Bishop of Cape Town ; Matthew and
James Quinn, who taught schools in Dublin, bishops of
Brisbane and Bathurst respectively ; to Father O’Mahony,
a Cork curate, he gave the See of Armidale ; Dr. James
Murray, his private secretary, he made Bishop of Mait-
land ; Father O’Connor, who was priest in the hamlet of
Rathfarnham, close to the Irish capital, he sent out as first
Bishop of Ballarat. And so forth. The colonial clergy
did not like this system. They thought that the men who
had worked hard out in the colonies for years should
get the benefit of the dignities and emoluments
when there were any of these about. Of late years, a
new plan has been adopted. Instead of the poor
curates and obscure parish priests being appointed
colonial bishops, prelates already having a good status
have been sent out —such as Archbishop Steins to Auck-
land ; Dr. Moran, from South Africa to the same See on Dr.
Stein’s death in Sydney ; Dr. Carr, from Galway to Mel-
bourne ; Dr. P. F. Moran, from Ossary to Sydney. The
introduction of such men was viewed with a trifle more
favour by the clergy than the importation of secretaries
and schoolmasters, but still the colonial priests didn’t
believe in Freetrade in bishops. At the Plenary Council of
Sydney, held in 1885, they carried the cause of Protection
to such a degree that colonial priests were forthwith
appointed to Grafton, Wilcannia, Port Augusta, Cook-
towm, Perth, and Sale. The Anglican clergy ought to
take a leaf from the R.C.’s book, and kick against im-
ported Smiths, Goes, and the rest, and keep the good
appointments to themselves.
Mr. Thomas Dulake, who signs himself
“ The Grasshopper Engineer,” addresses the
“ Interests of Australia ” through a letter he has
sent us. The subject of his address is, of course,
Grasshoppers. He is describing how he proposes
to destroy them : —■
Carefully thinking the matter over I came to the con-
clusion that they could be caught by a net, say 4ft. high,
made of wire, and a small trench dug on the opposite
side, so that when the danged insects climbed to the top
they would become dizzy, lose their senses, fancy every-
thing was upside-down, and then behold them tumbling
into the trench never to see daylight again, and by their
rapid accumulation would suffocate and break each others’
Irenes.
He then goes on to say that they should be danced
upon until they become a “hideous pulp”—such
is his gruesome phrase. Mr. Dulake, after this,
proceeds to speak modestly of himself :
I having some years’ experience in England among
agricultural and horticultural pursuits, and now taking
up my efforts of doing my part of making Australia one of
the best and finest countries in the world for agriculture
of all descriptions, and now it is my present desire to
bring before the community at large the necessity of
doing away with those horrible animals called the grass-
hopper, and whom, I believe, are in some way connected
with Old Nick, they having horns and feet exactly like
those of his satanic majesty. ... I think, as an inti-
mote friend of mine proposed (a dry wag he must have
been, too) to establish a factory at Lancefield for the pur-
of making the appliances, &c., for the destruction of those
insects, and would give employment to about 2000 per-
sons of both sexes.
Mr. Dulake is very ricketty in his grammar, but
bis sentiments are all right. He doesn’t say
whether he proposes to make leather of the grass-
hoppers’ skins in his factory employing 2000 per-
sons, or tweed clothing of their wool, or knife-
handles, combs, and spoons of their horns, or
simply edible paste —something like anchovy—out
of their “hideous pulp.” But this is merely a
matter of detail. Mr. Dulake is the gentleman,
by the way, who, in one of his speeches as a candi-
date for Parliament at last Victorian election, said
he would be in favour of making Lancefield—a
few score miles inland —a seaport town. After all,
this world would be a dreary world to live in if it
were not for the existence here and there of per-
sons like Mr. Thomas Dulake, Grasshopper En-
gineer, of Lancefield.
BIT OF SCANDAL.
Our ladies’ man heard the following conversa-
tion between two young and goodlooking ladies in
a suburban train yesterday:—First Lady: “ -That s
a sad affair about Mrs. eloping with her hus-
band’s coachman. What could have been the
reason ? ” Second Lady : “ Don’t you know ? it s
the talk of the town. Her hubby refused to
furnish her with a bottle of the famous St. Louis
Lager Beer, and the coachman offered to supply
her wants. A reason weighty, strong ana
effectual,”
The estate of the late Hon. W. Robinson
(of N.Z.) has been sworn under £350,000, and is
left to his daughters for life, afterwards to their
children.


“HOG’S HEAD” BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
E. B. WHEELER, & CO.,
2G5 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Use Batho’.s Baking Powder.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s'Sxow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile]
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
High Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONT
and 00., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington “By Appointment.”
5oftcm & -|yux>qv-<y> fcafftix*
CViAC* a-Tui)
C-VCVC VtA.
ķ
Cl&> o ttVe
S C.vt luCniemit
>)oC jCt‘X-teA_
f coctfc; o'l*.
B. WHBELSR & C0 M
265 Clarence Street, S¥DJtEY»
Personal Items,
The Princess of Wales has a boil on her
royal neck.
Oscar Wilde has retired from the Woman’s
World. Oscar grows ancient.
It was characteristic of Disraeli that he
selected Dr. Kidd to be his physician.
Governor Macgregor, of New Guinea,
<i doesn’t touch it,” neither does his private secre-
tary.
Figaro says that “the Piccadilly Puzzle,”
by Fergus Hume, is an improvement on his pre-
ceding stories.
One of the Prince of Wales’ footmen has
been fined 15s. for keeping a man servant without
iiaving a license. “ Big fleas,” &c.
Stockbroker Dix, ivho “boomed” the
Round Hills and was left lamenting, is married to
ii daughter of the Melbourne Crown Prosecutor.
Col. Bingham, the N.S.W. artillery-in-
structor, has resigned, and goes to England to
take up an artillery instructorship worth £2500 a
year.
A certain Melbourne editor might just as
well sign his name to his leaders at once. His
quotations from Pope “give him away” every
time.
As a specimen of cable drivel in the
Australian daily press we select the news that
“Prince Ferdinand of Bulgaria has gone to visit
Bis mother.”
Evangelist Yarley pretends to know a good
deal about the world, the flesh, and the devil; on
the second of these, anyhow, the ex-butcher should
be an authority.
English papers say that Queen Victoria
will never again sit to a sculptor. The postage-
stamp and mint artists keep to the profile H.M.
wore 50 years ago.
Queen Victoria wants to make son-in-law
Battenberg a duke, but is at a loss for a locality.
Petticoat Lane would do. A petticoat has been
Batt’s path to glory.
The tallest man in New Zealand is Gunner
Moorhouse, of the Permanent Artillery Force,
who stands Oft. 9in. in his socks. He takes moor
1 louse room than most men.
A N.S.W. millionaire, not long deceased,
left instructions in his will that his sons were not
to “ back ” pro. notes or otherwise become security
for anyone. He said nothing, however, as to lend-
ing on good fat mortgages.
The gambling State of Monaco is, it is
said, to be purchased for the Pope as a residence
in the event of his having to leave Rome. In that
event the gibe “To Hell with the Pope” will
have an added significance.
A well-advertise 1 Sydney pugilist, it would
appear, has been getting into pretty bad company
in England—that of Viscount Mandeville, to wit
—who took him to Bessie Bellwood’s place, where,
in a row, he got knocked on the head with a
lemonade-bottle.
The late Edward Butler, Q.C., was at a
wedding once, and, as the happy pair were de-
parting amidst a shower of lice and slippers,
expressed Ids regret that he had not an old shoe
to fling after the departing couple. Quoth Dailey,
who was present, “Throw your brogue after them,
Butler. ”
It is not generally known that all the
articles made by ex-Premier Dibbs with his lathe
during his year’s imprisonment as a debtor in
Darlinghurst were, with the exception of the now
historic cup presented to Premier Parkes, sold for
the benefit of the imprisoned witness Sampson’s
wife and children.
Dr. Russell, the renowned war-correspon-
dent, having lately visited Chili, was asked, on
Ids return, what he thought of the appointment of
Patrick Egan as U.S. Consul in that country.
“Oh, he’ll do first rate,” said Russell. “Heis a
land agitator, you know, and earthquakes are a
great institution there.”
The English papers gush over Admiral
Tryon as a fresh Nelson. Last year he led the
attacking fleet in the naval manoeuvres, proving
that England was undefended. Tins year he has
led the defence, thus proving that England is in-
vincible. Admiral Baird was his unlucky an
tagonist on both occasions,
A big Australian newspaper proprietary,
whose paper for years slanged the squatters as the
natural enemies of the selector and the working-
man, are now members of a huge squatting agency
for the sale of fleece, greasy, pieces, tallow and
all the produce of the formerly hated wool-king.
Vice when seen closely, &c., &c.
Rev. Julian E. Teuison Woods, the well-
known scientist, who died last week in Sydney,
was not all his life a Roman Catholic. He was of
Protestant birth and ’verted early in life. Father
Woods contracted the illness of which he died
while on a scientific tour in Java, and was partially
paralysed for a couple of years before he died.
They want to make out now that Hopetoun
comes to Melbourne because he is disgusted with
the new Forth Bridge, for spoiling the viewupthe
Firth, from Hopetoun House. It also spoils the
prospect from Lord Rosebery’s Dahneny House.
The owner of 300 flunkeys cannot be expected to
have much sympathy with a useful cantilever
iron bridge.
Now that the Duke of Fife is married to
Queen Victoria’s grand-daughter, Her Majesty
will be delighted to remember her liberal treat-
ment of the ten children of William IV. by Dora
Jordan, the actress, the direct ancestors of the
Duke of Fife. William IV. allowed them £5OO
a year each (taxpayers’ sweat, of course). Queen
Victoria graciously continued the allowance.
Governor Onslow, of N.Z., apparently
forgets when waltzing that “ Festina lente ” is his
motto. He is said to be the fastest dancer that
has ever opened the pores of Wellington belledom,
and has put up a record for six laps of the Govern-
ment House ball-room. There is something in
the Imperial connection after all, if it sends us
vice-regents agile enough to keep our girls’ wind-
pipes open.
Says the Dublin Union :
It is not generally known that a highly accomplished
lady—Mrs. Anna Boulter—one of the leading novelists on
the staff of the Family Herald, has been residing for
several months in Melbourne, the Australian climate
having been recommended by her medical advisers.
Among her stories is “ Could Aught Atone,” which
has had a large sale in Australia.
Never heard of it.
During the imprisonment of Mr. Cony-
beare—gaoled for giving food to the starving
children of evicted rack-rented peasants—
he has been afflicted with severe ophthalmia,
a loathsome skin disease, and lumbago, and has
been prevented for writing to the journals, a
privilege accorded to Yates of the World and
Stead of the Pall Mall Gazette during their
imprisonment.
Mr. Turner, M.P. for Gunnedah, who
“has found grace and been saved,” and who makes
a sensation by appearing in the N.S.W. Assembly
in a Salvation Army uniform, was not always such
a good youngman. By the way, when The Bulletin
first saw Mr. Turner’s red jersey it suspected that,
incited by the bad example of Postmaster-General
O’Connor in letting out the backs of the N.S.W.
postage stamps as advertising-space, the honour-
able member had hired out his manly chest to the
Army at per square foot.
When Edison was a watchman at the
station in Ontario lie was expected to pull a button
every forty minutes during the night to inform all
parties interested that he was awake. Before he
had been in the position long Ids inventive
faculties were set to work, and he soon had the
button pulled by an electrical device as regular as
THE GATHERING OF THE CLANS.
INEBRIATED SCOT: “NO, I HEVNAE HED OWER MUCKLE. BUT FULL
LIKE I WUZ DRINK IN OOT O’ DIFF RENT BOTTLES. WHEN THAE
CLANS GET TO CLOSE QUARTERS THEY ALWAYS FECHT LIKE
DEEVILS. LET’S SEE, I HED A WEE DRABBLE O’WALKER’S, AN’
McNAB, THEN A DAWSON, AND A -HIC ! ” (left recapitulating).
clockwork. Edison then calmly went to bed and
slept all night, like a white man. This worked
well until two trains came near colliding
through his lack of attention, a fact which caused
him to throw up his position.
Old Ready-Money Robinson, of N.Z., has,
it appears, “cut up ” for £350,000, all of which is
divided amongst his five daughters. One of these
ladies is married to Sir Robert Campbell, a cousin
of the Duke of Argyle, and as matters stand at
present, a possible eventual holder of the duke-
dom. The Marquis of Lome has no heir, neither
has Lord Colin Campbell, and the other inter-
mediates between Sir Robert and the title and
honours of the MacCallum Mohr are also childless.
Five years ago at Wellington Club “Ready”
offered to take £l5OO to £lOO that he would live to
be the grandfather of a duke.
Justice Kerferd, of Victoria, appeared the
other day before Chief Justice Higinbotham as a
witness in Merry v. the Queen. Kerferd was in
the witness-box all day, but the Chief did not once
ask him to sit down, and coldly referred to him as
“ the witness.” Years ago the late Justice Fellows
once appeared before the late Sir Redmond Barry
as a witness. Barry offered him a seat on the
bench—but Fellows declined it, put his shabby
white hat on the floor, and stepped into the box
like the man he always was. One morning Fellows
did Chamber business in his shirt-sleeves and bare
feet. He had walked from home in flood-time
and got wet feet, and before he begun business ho
put his socks and shoes to dry on the fender.
Morgan M‘Donnell (who died the other day) ap-
peared before Fellows on the occasion, and used
to relate the occurrence with horror.
An Australian weekly recently published
a portrait professedly that of G. F. Richardson,
the present N.Z. Minister of Lands, but in reality
that of Edward Richardson, of Kaiapoi, Minister
for Public Works in the Stout-Vogel Cabinet.
The latter man is nearly twice as old and 50 times
better-looking than his namesake, whose sun-
picture has not been taken in N.Z. for 20 years,
and who would probably slay the_ artist or photo-
grapher ivho would suggest his reduplication.
Richardson’s aversion to the photographic art
dates back to when he was in his teens and lived
in Dunedin with his brother Jim. Jim, a year or
two older than he, was an amateur photogra-
pher, and used sometimes to make his little
brother sit for his likeness 60 times a day while he
(Jim) learned the mysteries of the art. The future
Minister had also to look pleasant and assume a
smiling expression of countenance on pain of get-
ting his head punched, and to such an extent was
he forced to submit himself to this unnatural rule
that his features when released rebounded more and
more to the other extreme, until at last when he
had shaken off the fraternal yoke they had ac-
quired an expression of concentrated disgust
which has been (apart from the inevitable cigarette)
their principal characteristic ever since. From
the above unvarnished statement it will be readily
gathered that a recent photograph of G. F.
Richardson could not be procured in N.Z. for
love or money, and the journalist who sent that
of Edward Richardson in its place did so, no
doubt, from ignorance, and had no idea of the
huge joke he was perpetrating in putting the
genial figurehead of the member for Kaiapoi over
his remarks concerning the morose and glooiny-
looking Minister of Lands.
Parkes has prorogued the N.S. W, Assembly
till the fifth of November.
Thirty one thousand two hundred and
forty seven Victorians arc in receipt of state pay.
Premier Morehead’s political opinions are,
according to a Brisbane paper, highly squatto-
cratic, but tempered by strong personal predilec-
tions.
A Southern District Court bailiff has been
dismissed from his office for being privately insol-
vent. This is a specimen of the irony of fate in
its most ferruginous form.
There are rumours of several gigantic jobs
to be attempted by “ fche_ Ministry for Mount
Morgan ” during the recess in the desperate hope
of carrying it through in the re-opening of the
Queensland Parliament by a caucus majority vote.
It is stated that the Wye gunboat is chiefly
employed in bringing turtle to England from
Ascension to the Queen and Oommander-in-Ohief.
Meantime, women and their children are being
starved to death in a London slum on two shillings
per week.
Being a Chinaman is the best game just
now in Australia. As every Chinaman has to pay
£lOO before he lands, every Chinaman in Australia
is protected against the competition of every other
Chinaman —and you see it is only Chinese compe-
tition that the Chinaman has to fear. John has
no reason to be afraid of white competition.
Great efforts are being made to induce
Dickson, Bulcock and the old Free-trade whigs,
who were bounced out the last elections, to make a
solid Free-trade party with Morehead, Pattison
and Maorossan. Dickson, who was Griffith’s
treasurer, has just left for Europe, but, “if sufficient
inducement offer,” will return by the re-opening
of Parliament.
The price of the adhesion of the Free-
traders of the North, in the big Freetrade com-
bination that is to include Morehead, Nelson, and
the Southern Freetraders, is the Extension of the
Polynesian Act, or Separation, which is now the
same thing. What Freetrader who believes in a
white Australia—an Australia truly for the Aus-
tralians—will strike hands over such a bargain ?
Two men were arrested in Melbourne last
week for stealing spirits and depositing them in a
grave in the West Melbourne Cemetery. Perhaps
they had friends buried there. Few people—
more’s the pity—are so thoughtful about their
dead friends. These two martyrs to good fellow-
ship argued, naturally enough, that the persons
inhabiting the grave would be glad of a pick-me-
up on the Resurrection morning. Most corpses
would, we fancy, considering what they will have
to go through later on in the day.
The hue and cry is already beginning in
the Queensland country press that is Nationalistic
against the late Ministerial coup d'etat, which is
rapidly becoming understood. M‘llwraith only
saved himself twice in two sittings from voting
dead against the Government —in the Railway
Vote and in the Black Labour Vote, Griffith’s
amendment —by leaving the House. And he only
did it, because the hour for jumping out the
“ Mount Morgan Ministry ” is not come.
Says the Argus re subscriptions for dock
labourers ;—“ Everything tends to show more and
more clearly that the help given by Australia was
used, not for,the relief of suffering, but for the
purpose of assisting certain English labourers to
obtain higher wages from their employers.” How
the Argus does put her great flat foot in it, to be
sure ! if the money sent from Australia was the
means of procuring another penny per hour for
the hungry lumpers, it was used for the permanent
relief of suffering, and will be buying food for the
labourers until the end of time.
The preparations for the big approaching
Fiscal Armageddon in Queensland are already
begun. The Freetraders have most of the coin,
and in Brisbane they have all the newspapers, but
there is a profound feeling of distrust of the pre-
sent Ministry which will rend the party in two.
The Courier and the other two Buzacottian
organs will never go solid for a Ministry which
does not pledge itself up to the hilt against black
labour, and much as Brentnall and the Telegraph
would like to chip in at any cost as the organ of
the proposed party, they dare not monkey with
the kanaka. With MTlwraith and Griffith on
one side there can't be much doubt as to what will
happen to Protection next session.
North Melbourne Presbytery has de-
nounced Sunday newspapers, and one ancient
“ meenister ” in pious wrath has anathematised
Sunday cablegrams from Europe, which are con-
trary to -the commandments, and might con-
veniently be put off for a day ;
On the Australian Primacy question, Dean
Cowper has written to Sydney Evening News as
follows
My attention having been drawn to your leading article
of yesterday’s paper upon the subject of the Primacy, I
obtained a “copy of the .paper and read it.
The Bulletin never permits any haughty person-
age to say in its columns that his “ attention has
been directed,” When any potentate, from the
Czar downwards, ventures, either directly or in-
ferentially, to convey to any of the officials of this
paper that he is not a regular subscriber, or that his
acquaintance with anything in The Bulletin is not
the result of the natural and regular and ordinary
course of things, but of a roundabout filtrative pro-
cess of the above Cowperian character, his commu-
nication is ignominiously flipped into the dust-bin.
Should Editor Hogue ever again permit his paper
to be thus loftily patronised by an inferior profes-
sion like the clergy we must, in the interests of
the dignity of journalism, for ever disown him as
a brother.' By the way, a very great man once
arrived —we say arrived because the commonplace
word “ came ” in so magnificent a connexion would
be a wanton insult—at The Bulletin office to
complain of something, and proceeded to say—
‘l My attention has been drawn, ” We stopped
him instantly. “Sir,” we said, “you do not
ordinarily read The Bulletin, then?” “No,”.he
said, “I do not.” “Then,” replied we, with much
dignity, “it is no longer wonderful to us that
you should have been guilty of the crimes attri-
buted to you. You will please leave these pre-
mises at once. ” He left in confusion.
Oh, ancient man of saintly fame.
You're right this far, we ween,
Our love of European news
Is not so very keen
But that they might put off a day
The cable submarine.
How Tummy sprained a vein, or how
Her Gracious gave a shawl
To some poor bride whose wedding w rap
Had best have been a pall.
How Smith, the bruiser, nearly had
A very painful fall.
How Mr. Jingoe, 0.M.G.,
And Mrs. .1. have been
Attending a reception, and
A-kissing their dear Queen
Upon her pale and portly paw,
Or how an Earl obscene
Has been arrested for a crime
And straight allowed to go,
And how the Times thinks this or that,
The D.T. so and so.
We’d gladly do without this rot —
The other news we know,
Is mostly straight out fiction or
Is built upon surmise.
But, Rev’rend sir, your action fills
This paper with surprise—
Would’st give a day of rest to Nick,
The Father of all Lies ?


V 5
*gSee.
./
J?pT/zpc/fuJ/i/ 'rfscOeajfct "ft fyr.fgpyJO.
7%py 7fr se \
'}p &#c/rp'S~ Thpy L
_/ jy>rs,y<tJ-?/6'c7uJr<°.
jjff Sva &RityfiApy
T/r
7~Ae JUy> rfr*nng <tff'fi' 7 - 9 —' /
fury ty fyp, Mo.* for^prs:
ivm m-mRiE-
C&ar /6
V, s>/~
of (/frwqpy. M/s
£*7s (rufacM T 6 *
j/y ypry) yuC^
(s 8
paper laid before the Assembly the
following was j*ven by the Gorojnncnt analyst
a? a specimen ot the ingredients cl an ordi-
nary alcoholic drink.
There were no less than lb in-
gredients, namely, ordinary alcohol, acetate of
ethyl, ounrhviate of ethyl, acetal, aldehyde
acetic acid, propionic acid, tartaric acid, higher
alcohols each as prophilic, butylic, anuylic
(foiming tusel'oil), amides, sugar, tatiiun,-color-
in? matter and asb or mineral ingredients
Jf/f '?m7t/JT'PSUMWTARjPP
O/V /j PVlf/ftt/rf4 (jp A) S/PfiM
r//jr/30so/f tP ///$ ccA'j~r/r(s~
PA'Cy __
/A 5 //i?f PfStS
jf/\//> 6/<y. A/y As.
O/D rt'PW /'/pfr/P/yd ktyn
/ytU 6<°P// PPCLcCsyg 4 cc/ ijp
■Cl6opP J
/)& yocf^PaytoTi 0 // ys
, rfa/ c 2 wctc? mplPocjs & U
Tfyu/- /&//? cJ/tf Awry rfr/ft af/jAy 6s fcfaSS /**&
tj//a / d /c£7//? Jefa/cZr f #aq/;/- /£ /p / "
_ *? c $a
n
■ £ %T'>
'S'^fe.
"<, %
5
' V//
*jp
fa
dfits
\
7i2>
ttrs/- ytsay /3/u&yos^ j tf/z/zyajp^
fez's 0 Cszypy fesz/ feqfi/y £z/?d
/>facfa/y /yj/z/z/faz? & /?Masurr~
fats' /y #/" 6/zp'c/ fez//*//" o */
Mes/Zy iooyep. ?//
Things in General.


D &
k
$v V * y #
„V, ! x
> ffm f &&&£*&
'*>e Wp
ftP' iPf^
__
A. Melbourne Club. — Vide Page 8.


The
Marvellous
IBs. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES.
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d.. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to he obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
F. W. JOVSOV, rKinan s C'ertlflcatcd Teacher,
Shorthand taught in 26 Half-hour Private Lessons— Fee,
425. Reporting Style or Finishing Lessons successfully
given by post—Course of 13 lessons, 215., or 2s. per lesson.
Fees in Advance.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of UNToatv- Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uehel, Fenrich, Lipp, Boniech, Blnthner, Collard. and other
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianop a 4 and s3stey Ojugfa/iaua. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
Carington has written a private letter to
Lord Hopetoun, in which he was good enough to
mention that “life in the colonies is worth living.”
We give some extracts from the vice-regal com-
munication :
Lord Carington, though he wrote to Lord
Hopetoun, can’t possibly know him personally.
Hopetoun, if born at all, must have been in long
clothes when the Baron left London five years ago.
# # #
Lady Belmore’s first four children were
girls and the fifth, born at Government House,
Sydney, turned out to be a boy.
* * #
There was an instructive finish to a divorce-
case heard in N. S. Wales some time ago. The
gay and not over young Lothario (himself a
married man but living apart from his lawful
spouse, she having taken a fancy to a more eligible
personage) struck up an enthusiastic acquaintance
with a handsome married woman, the mother of
three lawfully-begotten children. The injured
husband invoked the law and, as the co-respon-
dent was wealthy, went for damages and divorce.
He succeeded in getting both, after a fashion, the
damages being settled on the children. The rule
nisi has never been made absolute, as the erring
woman, with her nicely-dowered children, re-
joined her husband, and, as the story-books say,
lived ever after happily.
# * #
It is easy to be the victim of a miscon-
ception. Mr. Fitzgerald Moore explained to the
excited brokers of the Victorian Stock Exchange
last week, that when he went up to sharebroker
Dix and said “Advance!” he did not mean that
Dix was to advance his price for Round Hill
shares, but that he wished Dix to go forward with
him and have some refreshments. “Shall we
advance?” will now be the Melbourne phrase for
* ‘ let us go and take a drink. ” It is much shorter,
much more elegant, and, after all, it will not
easily be misunderstood by anybody who is thirsty.
Mr. VY. P. Crick, M.P., has also been
misunderstood. When accused in the N.S.W.
Assembly of having shrieked out “ You bloody
so-and-so !” the gentle Crick explained that he
only said “You would-be so-and-so !”
We now want to hear a Queensland ex-
planation. Also one from South Australia.
* * *
The medical committee at Melbourne
Baby Show discovered that about 800 out of the
700 competitors were unvaccinated. It is said
that many of these first appearances in public will
therefore be quickly followed by a second —in the
police-court. Fortunately for the N.S.W. Baby
Show, vaccination is not compulsory in N.S.
Wales.
# * *
In Brisbane they have a paper called the
Princess, which sports the Royal arms and calls
itself the Government House Chronicle in big
letters, “By Special Appointment.” Here is a
hunk of its choicest grovel
Friday, 13th.
His Excellency the Governor, Lady Norman and Miss
Norman, accompanied by Major Owen and Captain Baden-
Powell, attended the fourth Brisbane private assembly
ball at the Centennial Hall.
Saturday, 14 th.
His Excellency the Governor, Lady Norman and Miss
Norman, accompanied by Major Owen and Captain Baden-
Powell, attended the performance of “ Betsy ” by the
Brough-Bouoicault Comedy Company at the Gaiety
Theatre in the evening.
Sunday, 15tii.
His Excellency the Governor, Lady Norman and Miss
Norman, accompanied by Major Owen and Captain Baden-
Powell, attended the morning divine service at St. John’s
pro-Cathedral.
In the afternoon his Excellency the Governor and Lady
Norman, accompanied by Major Owen, walked out along
the North Quay.
May we add a little paragraph ? On Thursday his
Excellency, Sir Henry Wylie Norman (accom-
panied by Lady Norman and Miss Norman) had
a sharp ache in his “ tummy,” but on the applica-
tion of a hot brick, two plasters of mustard and
cayenne pepper, a sprinkling of turpentine and
five drinks of rum and cloves, the sufferer at once
progressed towards a happy convalescence, which
we may be loyally permitted to hope will be the
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENG. CO., 8 BRIDCE-SL SYDNEY
PHOTO. BY CHARLEMONT.
THE VICTORIAN PRIZE BABY.
means of “ drawing together those silken bonds
which,” &c., &o. We are very ill indeed.
# * #
Judging from the facts which have tran-
spired in Australia within the last year or two, a
jealous man should be cautious when approached
by a private-inquiry agent with the news of his
wife’s unfaithfulness. Paying the agent a “ shadow-
ing ” fee seems to be merely commissioning him to
make love to “the missus,” which, as he is only
human, he does with much more enthusiasm than
he displays in looking after the interests of the
master. It is not so very long since a man who
had hired a private detective to watch his wife
stole in with his latchkey at the dead of night and
caught the detective aforesaid taking a lunar at
madame at very close quarters in a drawing-room
where the gas burnt low. And didn’t the poor
husband boot that private detective !
* * *
Australia may be, as Lord Cariagton says,
a good place to live in, but it is not a good place
to live too long in—particularly if you happen to
be poor. A white-haired man, who was said to be
100 years of age, was brought before the Melbourne
City Court a few days ago charged with vagrancy,
and was sent to Geelong Gaol for twelve months.
His Centennial Exhibition was a failure, poor, old
fellow. But they would send Moses and Elias to
gaol if they made their appearance in Melbourne
without money, or, at least, letters of introduction
to Sir Benjamin Benjamin.
'* # *
It is cabled from London that the com-
mittee who are arranging the banquet to Lord
Hopetoun, the infant Governor of Victoria, at St.
George’s Club, “are touting widely for tickets
among non-members. Tickets are being sold at
ss. each.” We shouldn’t wonder. Most of the
toadying “representative Australians” being in
Paris just now, it must be pretty hard to get
“ paying ” people together to make a fuss over the
latest of the microscopic lordlings who come to
insolently patronise the Australian public and loot
the Australian public chest.
# * *
We have just seen Hopetouu’s photograph.
He is a pretty little creature with a baby smile
and looks like a draper’s junior assistant. We
might have a moustache thrown in, in a £lO,OOO-a-
-year-and-perks. transaction.
* * #
In printing herewith a photo-nature por-
trait of the Victorian prize baby, The Bulletin
cannot do better than append the following
characteristic notice written by the show-reporter
of the Melbourne daily clerical paper, the
Telegraph
Florence Jennie Dryburgh J ohnston is truly a magnificent
specimen of young Australia. She was born on the 10th
May last year in Gipps-street, East Melbourne, and is
therefore exactly seventeen months old to-day. Through-
out all her short life she has been very healthy and strong,
and always good-tempered, that is, what delighted
mothers and young ladies call “ such a dear good child. *
She is a chubby, bright-looking child, with fine sparkling
eyes, fat dimpled cheeks, dark flaxen hair, and plenty of
it. Her legs and arms for shape and size are perfect
pictures of beauty, and would send a sculptor into ecstaci s
could he but gaze upon them. Her skin is very clear and
clean. At her birth she was only a little bigger than
ordinary babies. Her food has been just the usual that
all babies get, now this, and then that, but milk the chief
item. Her weight at fourteen months, when she was last
weighed, was two pounds less than three stone. The
representative of the Daily Teleqraiui who called upon
Mrs. Johnston, was graciously allowed to nurse the
prodigy for a moment or so. When he first knocked at
the door Miss Johnston was crying with some force, and it
may be mentioned that directly the prize baby was shown
to the pressman she stopped crying and laughed, and
remained humourous while in his arms. The parents of
the child have all through their lives enjoyed most
excellent health, and have always lived temperately. The
mother was born in Tasmania, and at the time of the birth
of her daughter was only seventeen years of age. She is
rather petite in form, as is also her husband, who is now
about twenty-three years old. The marvellous size of the
child, seeing that both parents are beneath the ordinary
stature, is attributed more to the fact that Mrs. Johnston
never indulged in the pernicious habit of tight-lacing, so
much seen on the Block. Indeed the medical man who
attended Mrs. Johnston affirmed that had the lady ever
laced tightly, her child would probably have been more of
a sickly than a robust nature. Another thing that un-
doubtedly helped the development of the child is that
both father and mother followed the advice of Poor
Richard when he said, “Early to bed and early to rise,
makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.”
* # *
A great unknown, Matthew Lang, is elected
Mayor of Melbourne, apparently for no other
reason than that for which Matthew Davies was
elected Speaker, a long purse, and capacity of pro-
viding callipash and oallipee. Who the deuce is
Lang? was the universal inquiry in Melbourne,
last Thursday, and nobody could tell. The thing
was settled as usual in caucus, and the vote
unanimous. Lang, dragged out into the calcium
glare of publicity, was so affected that he almost
broke down. Some say he’s Ezywakin, the boot-
maker. Others not. Thus the veil of mystery
remains. Sir Ben Benjy says he’s a good man.
That means from a Palestinic point of view.
But surely the old fogies have had innings
enough. The mayoralty must have gone begging
to come round to a man never heard of by 400,000
of the Melbourne inhabitants. The ex-Mayors
going round are Carter, Meares, Fenwick, Bayles,
Moubray, Pigdon, Butters, Stewart, Cain, and
they look like balloons with the gas out. Lee and
Bowen fancy they ought to have a show. But
Lee dared to speak up for the fruit-hawkers, and
thus earned the hatred of the shopkeepers, who
boss the city. The Prince of Wales may drop in
at Melbourne any time, or send round the Duka
of Fife, instead of Aunt Louise and Lome.
* * #
The amorous Melbourne butcher, Winch,
who came into a large fortune through the pub-
licity afforded by his police-court prosecution for
kissing, against her will, a lady customer, lately
received a letter from Marshall, her husband,
pointing out that as Winch indirectly received the
money through his prosecution by Marshall, his
refund of the latter’s law expenses, “four ginnies,”
would be merely an act of justice. Winch declines.
# * #
A Hobart alderman, named Howard, has
been fined 40s. and costs for kissing an hotel-
keeper’s wife. The Registrar’s marriage-fee, we
may remark, is only half-a-crown or so.
9P 5?
Goldsbrough and Mort! What names are
those to conjure with, emblematic of the golden
days of Melbourne and Sydney 7. Now Golds-
brough and Mort, Limited, is the insentient com-
pany that tries to carry on the old business. In
Melbourne the harmony is not complete. Golds-
brough and Mort wore men who eschewed publicity
in business. Each was his own company. But
when your Mort and Goldsbrough are gone, they
no more leave successors—we mean men to fill
their places as men —than Emperor William, Bis-
marck, or Moltke. Thus the Golden Calf is
melted down. Horsfall was the nearest approach
to a Goldsbrough in the Melbourne branch, and
they have managed to lose him by what means is
explained in a pamphlet which all Horsfall’s
friends should read. Wool has its romance. Dick
Goldsbrough, stapling Australian wool in Brad-
ford, Yorkshire, as a clerk, made up his mind to
wring a fortune from Australia. He spent £150,000
b aiding the big bluestone warehouse in Mel-
b >urne. But, like the King of Israel, he was
g .thered to his fathers, and no son reigned in his
soead. Goldsbrough was a fine fe low, but Mort
a far finer. He had some large ideas of doing
good to his nation ; Goldsbrough had not one.
The benefit of the Victoria Racing Club was his
highest ambition. Josh. Pickersgill used to be his
shadow. He left Pick. £2OO a year, or something
like that. So Pick, can tell his funny stories
gratis, as Shakespeare says.
* * *
There is a “Rambling Club” in connec-
tion with the Melbourne Young Men’s Christian
Association. We suppose the Rambling Club is
designed for the cultivation and elaboration of
pulpit discourses.
* * *
There is a young woman in Melbourne
who, according to authoritative statistics, has paid
£2OO in fines within eighteen months. The police
regard her as a very fine young woman.
* * *
The commandant of the Victorian naval
forces has prohibited the men from wearing
moustaches. The Victorian man-o’-wars-mau >s
n )t got up to kill.
# # #
Brough Smyth is dead. He used to be
h sad of the Victorian Mining Department, and had
t le reputation of a frightful martinet. But Smyth
s id the Civil servants were nincompoops. He had
in his office a dreadful gong-bell which “ banged ”
1 ke the crack of doom, and the sound of which
made all the staff go upon their marrowbones.
They complained, among a lot of other things, that
Smyth made them write big books, and then took
a'l the credit. The e was but one officer who
could stand up to him and that was Karl Van
D mime, a big, calm Prussian. Smyth had the
nickname of the Prodromes, from a learned work
on “Prodromus of Geology.” An efficient and
brainful man, no doubt, but a Degree. He pos-
s‘ssed a magnetic pair of lightning black eyes,
which the staff likened to those of a basilisk or a
snake, and he was the sort of carefully-dressed
precise man who is always so pleasant, always so
nice in the presence of His Excellency the
Governor, or the Honorable the Minister, and
always so merciless and brutal in the presence of
the poor shabby “temporary” clerk who he
knows has a wife and family. At last human
fl ish and blood could stand it no longer and there
was a board of inquiry lasting many days, on
Smyth’s alleged cruelties. He went to India
afterwards, and got on well—with the niggers—at
the Wynaad gold mines. His reputation as a
petty tyrant was well established many a year
before the revolt at the Victorian Mines office led
to his deposition from the secretaryship. How
many years is it since pantomimist Akhurst
wrote—
They writhe
Like Civil servants under K. Brough Smyth ?
# # *
Mrs. Baldwin, of Christchurch, N.Z., is
sueing Rev. W. Pascoe, a local parson, for £2OO
damages, because he refused to administer the
holy communion to her. Now, if Parson Pascoe
had violently kissed Mrs. Baldwin against her
will (not, mind you, that we say that such a thing
would be likely or even possible), she would cer-
tainly have sued him for £5OO damages. It is
cheaper to assault the soul than the body.
# * *
At the meeting held at Collingwood Town
Hall to protest against keeping the museums and
libraries closed on Sundays, one speaker carried
away by his own eloquence said: “Do you wish
the time to come when you will be driven into
church by the parsons at the point of the eat-o’-
nine-tails ?”
* * *
Somebody who writes theatrical tittle-
tattle (in precious bad English) for a Melbourne
publication states that Marion Hood is a widow.
When the beautiful but somewhat scraggy lady
was among us she was supposed to have a husband
living. In point of fact Marion used to talk in a
despondent way of her divorce prospects, alleging
that she would probably marry Queensberry if she
We’ve a climate you’ll enjoy,
Though at times the weather’s hot
And becomes a bore, dear boy,
When you have to play the “pot ”;
But if you’re feeling queer
(Which, I take it, is the case)
I can recommend out here
As a decent sort of place
For a fellow, says Lord Carington to Hopetoun.
The people make one smile,
Ton my soul! they are absurd—
Not a little bit of style,
As we understand the word ;
They’ll amaze you just at first—
Yes, astonish you, begad !
But the men, of course, are worst.
While the girls are not so bad —
Rather pwetty, says Lord Carington to Hopetoun,
You must shake ’em by the hand,
Always say how well they ride ,
A nd persuade the beggars, mind,
That you haven’t any pride;
Bitch it strong about the Queen,
And be civil to the Press,
Then you’ll get on all serene
In a little time, I guess,
Like I did, says Lord Carington to Hopetoun,
You mustn’t cut up rough
When you see The Bulletin :
It will “guy ” you sure enough,
But you’ll have to take it in ;
One is careful not to speak
Of such papers, dontyersee.
But we read it every week,
Do myself and Lady C. —
11’s a screamer, says Lord Carington to Hopetoun.
You had better hurry up ;
Try and manage, if you can,
To be over for the Cup—
Quite a big affair, old man.
It’s a pleasant trip by sea,
And for those of noble birth
Who are queer, like you and me,
Well, these colonies are worth
The living in, says Carington to Hopetoun.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT & DISCOUNT BANK,
90 KING STREET-90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years per cent.
12 Months 8| per cent.
6 Months 7| per cent.
3 Months 5| per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors. _
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
Dea r Forty Years.
O
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of FORTY years’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market. ”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglia & Co.,
4 & ti Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
If You Have
BRONCHITIS
SCROFULA
GOUGHORGOLD
Threat Affection
■Wasting of Flesh
Or any Disease where the Throat and Dungs
are Inflamed, lack of Strength or Nerve
Dower, you can be Relieved and Cured by
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
PURE COeTIIVER OIL
With Hypophosphites.
Palatable as Miliu
Ash for Scott’s Emulsion, and let no ex»
planatlon or solicitation induce you to accept
a substitute.
Sold by all Chemists .
SCOTT & BOWNE, NoW York,
ftOBEE/rSON’S \\ r mSKV,
£2OO 3?mz£:s.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
16 of £5 each, 25 £2, and 70 At,
Pamphlets from the Agents, jAXjXjT &:
CO., Limited, CHAKLOTTE PLACE. SYDNEY
were only “ free.” It appeared that her feelings
towards the Marquis were those of gratitude for
his kindness, although she didn’t love him very
much indeed, you understand. However, Marion
may be a widow, and it’s not of much consequence,
anyhow. What shakes the credibility of the
scribbler in question is a previous announcement
that “ Charles Thorne holds a leading position on
the American stage.” Now this particular Thorne
has been dead seven years, come Christmas, The
Bulletin will swear.
* * *
Queer Sydney advt. :
(TENDERS required up to October 15, for the
I PURCHASE of the FREE CHURCH of ENGLAND,
Kogarah, with land, fittings, &0., complete; organ
also, if desired. Brilliantly lighted with gas. The
church is closed, amidst feelings of deepest regret,
after four years of most remarkable success, ONLY
because the object of the establishment has been com-
pletely consummated. Terms can he arranged.
“ Consummated ”is most excellent. Have all the
Sunday-school inarms got married, or has the
parson made his pile?
* * *
Another queer Sydney advt., which,
though rather high-flown, is possibly genuine and
makes one sorry to read it: —
A PPEAL.—WiII a few of those blessed with abund-
-cL anoe of wealth and surrounded by all the comforts
and elegancies of life assist a Lady who, through pure
misfortune, sickness, and deaths in the family, has
become involved, without the present or prospective
appearance of saving her little property from being
sacrificed ? With only a limited time given to meet
her liability, and no possible chance of earning in so
short a period the necessary sum, and being unwilling
and fearful to seek assistance from those who have
proved but fair-weather friends, the advertiser seeks
relief from her pressing responsibilities by thus ap-
pealing to those of Earth’s favoured ones whose hearts
beat responsive to real sorrow and difficulty, whose
joy and crown it is to lighten the loads of less favoured
mortals. Address to Difficulty, Daily Telegraph
Office.
* * *
The latest scheme for obtaining the piece
jfe resistance of a Christmas dinner comes from
Melbourne. You start a raffle for a pair of geese,
and rake in your subscriptions. Then you buy
your geese and in due course eat them. That’s
all. It is not much different to the old plan
except that there is a little more style about it.
* * *
The robbery of £3BOO in notes and specie
from Woolloongabba branch of the Q.N. Bank
“is shrouded in mystery.” Everyone knows what
that means.
* * *
The favourite name among the female
competitors at Melbourne Baby Show was Irene.
That was also the name of the sailing-boat which
capsized and drowned several young women at
Sydney on Eight-hours’ Day. The London
Journal is responsible for the nomenclature of
more than half the children and all dingies in the
COuntry - * *
Captain Mann, Lord High Admiral and
Commander-in-Chief of the Australian Fleet in
Hobson’s Bay, has discharged a stoker from
H.M.S. Cerberus, because he persisted in making
“the Service go to thedevil, sir, ” by declining either
to “shave clean” or “wear his beard full.” The
wretched stoker sported a moustache only, and
they have sent him about his business, by G d !
sir.—
One of the medical judges at the Mel-
bourne baby-show says that of the 700 battles
exhibited not a dozen had pretty faces. Probably
the dear little pets were like their pars.
* * *
A new courthouse was opened at Fitzroy
(Melb.), the other day, amidst disdainful sniffs
from the grey-headed identities who had been dis-
pensing justice in the good old shop for centuries,
and regarded the modern edifice as an unwarrant-
able intrusion upon ancient history. All the com-
paratively young and giddy parvenu beaks flopped
themselves down on the Bench and grinned for
joy, while the patriarchs stood afar off and sniffed
as stated above. In this official conflict of opinion
the old ’uns appear to be morally on top. The
new court is lacking in conveniences for anybody
save prisoners, and as the prisoners would rather
not have any court at all, the whole thing is a
ghastly failure in every direction.
* * *
The Victorian artists are agitating to get
an annual Government grant for the purchase of
local works of art, and also for a small exhibition-
room to be added to the National Gallery. Three
Victorian pictures were recently secured for the
Australian collection in Sydney, on the strength
of which action the V.A. Society are fairly en-
titled to expect encouragement in their own pro-
vince. At present the Melbourne National Gallery
seems to be run in the interests of Scotch painters,
who are sinfully overpaid for remarkably unin-
teresting canvases.
* * *
Case in Colling wood (Melb.) Police Court,
Man named Hogben, charged with cruelty towards
wife, married two weeks, been living together 16
years. This is an idyll—
Facilis descensus Averni ! Melbourne Ex-
hibition Building has been let to Jimmy
MacMahon, who proposes to run a circus and slack -
rope entertainment in it. This reminds us that
one of the exhibits in Dampier’s baby-show held
there lately was called Victoria Centennial
c«.uss7 r '4b t
Ryrity, The young lady will be lucky if she
escapes being called White Elephant Ryrity by
way of varyrity when she grows up —especially
if she should happen to hang too long upon her
parents’ hands.
1 # * *
A Geelong paper says that a horse bolted
with a buggy in that city lately. A buggy—pooh !
A hearse ! Which recalls to us that the custom of
uncovering the head when a funeral passes has
long been abolished in Geelong, the inhabitants
finding it inconvenient to go bareheaded in all
weathers.
* * *
Marriage is a failure. The prize for trip-
lets was not claimed at the Melbourne Baby-
show.
# * *
During the recent strike at the South-
West India Dock a tea-laden clipper of 3000 tons
was unloaded by clerks arrayed in frock coats and
silk hats,
* * *
The new American marriage formula
“Join hands, please. Now (to the groom), will
you stick to this woman through thick and thin, up
and down, right and left, hot or cold, wet or dry,
and have no other wife but her ? If you will, you
can have her for a wife. ” Similar questions hav-
ing been propounded to the woman, and affirma-
tive answers given, he pronounces them husband
and wife.
* * *
Those amongst us who have read Victor
Hugo’s “ Les Miserables ” will have pondered with
wonder and pity over the sad lot of the nuns of
the order of Perpetual Adoration so vividly de-
picted therein. It will be news to these, and
others to hear that there exists in our midst a re-
ligious body bearing a similar title which was
founded by the Very Rev. J. E. Tenison-Woods,
recently deceased. It is to be presumed that the
very rigorous life of the older order, which at the
time of which Hugo wrote was even then losing
its austerity—few neophytes being found willing
to sacrifice themselves to the extent required by
the order —is somewhat modified in Australia, but
the sleep of the nun is here, as in the olden time,
disturbed by the bell ringing for two hours prayer
in the dead of night!
The S.M. Herald announces, with appa-
rently unconscious humour, that “it will be in-
teresting for the reading public to learn that the
poetical works produced by Sir Henry Parkes
during the earlier years of his life are now ex-
tremely scarce.” This doesn’t say much for the
old gentleman’s springtime verses, for, as a rule,
poems which are things of beauty multiply exceed-
ingly per medium of the printing press as the years
roll by. “A copy of the book ‘Stolen Moments,
originally published at 55., which has long been
out of print, was sold the other day by a .Sydney
bookseller for £5. The book was brought out in
1840, and it will thus be seen than in less than oO
years its selling price increased 2000 per cent. Ihe
market value of ‘ Murmurs of the Stream, another
of the Premier’s works, has also increased consider-
ably, and the sum of 30s. was offered for it recently,
without a seller being found. There is also a
demand” (the paragraph looks as it it had
been been written by the ham-and-bacon-market
reporter) “for the ‘Beauteous Terrorist . Ves,
there has been a demand for the Beauteous
Terrorist” (published anonymously some years
ago) since the wicked Bulletin reviewed the book
and saddled Sir Henry Parkes with the author-
ship. The Herald, in directing attention to the
fact that the public are willing to give oos. for a
book of poetry by “the Australian Gladstone,
only reminds its readers that the public are will-
ing to give a shilling to see Jo-Jo, or the bow-
legged pig that squints. There is yet hope for
Premier Parkes. He may one day be able to make
a small fortune out of a “corner” in doggerel.
* * *
A more or less fashionable parson
is the hero of the hour just now in Brisbane-
Not only has he robbed several old women of both
sexes by bogus pro-notes and forged signatures to
deeds and other documents, but he has achieved
the crowning glory of pawning the church plate
and hypothecating the organ. Altogether he has
“looted ” the place up to close on £2OOO. He is a
native of Norfolk Island, and does infinite
credit to the beautiful island of his birth.
The rev. gentleman, whose prayers we ask,
is supposed to be just now on a visit to the tight
little N.S.W. dependency, but in reality, of
course, he is sojourning in a South American Re-
public or at Honolulu or some other paradise
which has not entered into extradition relations
with Great Britain and “ her colonies.”
* * *
The enquiry as to the cause of the deaths
of the 12 miserable infants who have died at Mrs.
Batt’s baby-farm, at Waverley, Sydney, within
the last 11 months, will be the merest mockery
unless we have the. names of the gentlemen who
handed over the infants (or paid to have them
handed over) to the care of Mrs. Batt aforesaid.
The Inspector-General of Police should put the
whole matter in the hands of a detective of the
Carnphin calibre and have the proud and happy
fathers paraded before the Coroner’s Court.
Russian cavalry caracoles on Austrian
frontier. Wiiere Russia has the pull of Austria,
Germany, France, and England is in her inex-
haustible supply of horses, wherein the Powers are
all short. Teddy Weeks and the other shippers
of Australian horses from Melbourne to Calcutta
for the cavalry have a notion that they will get a
job yet from Austria, Germany, and France,for
shiploads to the Mediterranean.
General Faidherbe, the brave and ener-
getic French soldier who fought so many tough
battles against heavy odds as commander of the
Army of the North in the Franco-German war,
has died—in his 72nd year. Generals Chanzy and
Aurelles de Paladine, the other two French
leaders who distinguished themselves in the war,
and whose efforts now and then left the final re-
sult in doubt, died long ago.
A correspondent of The Bulletin points
out that of 72 subscriptions to the Walgett
(N.S.W.) Hospital from a neighbouring station
by non-union shearers, 39 were from Chinese. He
warns shearers that in the near future their place
will be usurped by the Wolseley machine and the
wily Mongolian and counsels an amalgamation of
unions and an immediate rallying together, ere it
be too late, of all station workers under the
protecting banner of Unionism.
GOOD OLD CAPTAIN MANN.
The tautest tar upon the briny
Is good old Captain Mann ;
His buttons and his boots are shiny—
Good old Captain Mann !
He makes each sailor keep his station,
He’s death on insubordination,
You ought to hear him say “dimnation ” !
Good old Captain Mann.
There never lived a smarter joker
Than good old Captain Mann :
Last week he sacked a navy stoker -
Good old Captain Mann !
Because he wouldn’t scrape discreetly,
Or wear his “ beard full ” completely,
But merely grew moustaches neatly.
Good old Captain Mann.
O ! loyal to his Queen Yictorey
Is good old Captain Mann ;
He'll live and die for England’s glory,
A reg’lar right-down raging Tory—
Good old Captain Mann !
At duty’s call his country saving,
Upon his heart these words engraving—
“ All beards full, or else clean shaving
Good old Captain Mann !
For sixteen years, in weather foul or fair,
Had Mr. Hogben daily with his boot
And fist chastised the partner of his joys.
And she, not being bound to him by bonds
Of holy matrimony, had borne all
In patience, saying nought and lying low,
Until there came a day when, touched by ruth
At her long suffering, or made soft by beer,
He married her, and, on the eve thereof,
Once more chastised her with her boot and fist,
And she rose up with a great cry and went
Unto a magistrate, and told her tale.
Who gave her husband twelvemonths, nothing
loth,
And Hog is seen of publicans no more.
THE DISCRIMINATING SCISSORS.
The World Doesn’t Look at it So.
There’s many a nobleman dwells in a cot,
The palace holds many a clown,
And princes have beds but of tamarack bark
While beggars have couches of down ;
Brave kings are in cotton, base serfs are in silk,
And slaves like an emperor show,
For the only true title is stamped on the heart,
But the world doesn’t look at it so.
Here misers are prodigally flinging their gold
To spendthrifts who horde in their wake ;
There mumbles a rake in the garb of a priest
To a priest in the garb of a rake.
Sweet saints there are living in hovels of sin,
And sinners in Sanctified Row,
For the only true test is the heart in the breast,
But the world doesn’t look at it-so.
There are generals sleeping in graves unmarked,
And privates with monuments grand;
The ignorant stalk in the chambers of state,
But the quiet mind ruleth the land.
A shadow divergent, each object on earth
O’ercasts, from one sun in the sky,
And fancies are many as beings have birth,
But the same God ruleth on high.
So I laugh at the rank that is only a sham,
And at caste—but a silver-washed plate
Stuck up on the door of a tenement grand
Belonging to Nature’s estate
Whose inmates are constantly changing, and pass
Each year from our sight like the snow,
Whose going but stirs up the filth of the street
And the Saviour will look at it so.
CHARLES EUGENE BANKS.
Does Anyone Know?
Does anyone know what’s in your heart and mine,
The sorrow and song,
The demon of sin and the angel divine —
The right and the wrong,
The dread of the darkness, the love of the day,
The ebb and the flow
Of hope and doubt forever and aye,
Does anyone know ?
Does anyone dream of the love that is yours,
The heart that is mine;
The depth and the width of the cup that each
pours
Of rich red wine ;
Of hate that is dark as the midnight of grief,
The anguish and woe,
The dark clouds of halting and blind unbelief,
Does anyone know ?
Does anyone see what we have in the heart
To love and to hate ;
Of life’s every motive and intricate part
Of chance and of fate ;
The mem’ry of kisses, of starlight, of songs,
Of roses and snow,
Of women’s sweet eyes, of prayers and wrongs
Does anyone know ?
Does anyone harken to music of bells,
And the sigh of the sea,
And the whisper of woodlands that murmurs and
swells
For you and for me ;
The sound of fond voices that ever respond,
In tones soft and low,
To the prayer we are breathing into the beyond,
Does anyone know ?
The Divine Poet.
Whatever lacks purpose is evil, a pool without
pebbles breeds slime;
Not any one step hath chance fashioned on the in-
finite stairway of Time; ,
Nor even came good without labour, in toil, or in
science, or art;
It must be wrung out through the muscles, born
out of the soul and the heart.
Why plough in the stubble with ploughshares,
why winnow the chaff from the grain ?
All, since all of His gifts must be toiled for, since
truth is not born without pain !
He giveth not to the unworthy, the weak or the
foolish in deeds ; ,
Who giveth but chaff at the seed-time shall reap
but a harvest of weeds.
As the pyramid builded of vapour is blown by His
whirlwinds to naught, _
So the song without truth is forgotten ; the poem
is a man to man’s thought.
Whatever is strong with a purpose, in humbleness
woven, soul-pure,
Is known to the Master of Singers. He touohetli
it, saying “Endure!”
Charles J. O’Malley, in Boston Pilot.


Amusements.
ipHEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of
Miss Jennie Lee
as
“ JO.” “ JO.” “JO.”
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Maokay’s Hotel.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
For a Limited Number of Nights Only,
Henry V. Henry ~\7~.
HEKRY V.—RIGNOLD.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
A SHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS,
« ASHFIELD.
Manager ... Alfred Wyburd.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, OCTOBER 10,
Second Parachute Descent by Prof. C. Jackson.
The ASCENT will take place at 4 O’CLOCK SHARP.
SKATING ! SKATING ! SKATING I
In the Grand Pavilion.
GRAND BAND-20 PERFORMERS.
ADMISSION-Grounds, Grand Stand and Skating Rink Is.
gCHOOL OF ARTS.
Every Evening at 8 —MR. SNAZELLE.
“An Incomparable Performance-”—London Times.
MR. SNAZELLE, A TRIUMPH.
Mr. James MaoMahon has the honor to announce the
Complete Success of the famous Mr. Snazelle (specially
engaged in Europe, together with the whole of his
entourage, by Mr. F. E. Hisooks) and who will present
nightly his unique, beautiful and fascinating entertain-
ment,
MUSIC, MIRTH, SONG and STORY.
Incidental to which will be exhibited a series of marvel-
lous pictures by an entirely new scientific process, which
have proved a revelation to the Sydney public. This
department will be under the d rection of Professor
Huddlestone and staff, who have accompanied Mr. Snazelle
from England.
PRICES—4s., 35., 2s. and Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson & Co.’s Music Warehouse.
Q YCLORAM A. QYCLORAMA.
What do the papers say about it ?
Herald; “Well worthy of inspection, not once, but
many times.”
Telegraph : “It can hardly be surpassed.”
Evening News: “Visitors seem more interested than
evgr in the great battle scene.”
Star : “ Magnificent and life-like.”
fSf Open daily, 10 to 10. Admission, 25.; Children, 18.
Special. —Sunday Next, 3to 10. Half-price,
IJIHEATRE ROYAL, GRAFTON,
Skating Capacity, (BOO) Nine Hundred,
OWEN HYNES PROPRIETOR,
Having been renovated throughout,
IS NOW OPEN FOR ENGAGEMENT.
Apply S. LYONS,
Agent, Grafton.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.40.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS I
of
BUCHANAN’S WORLD-FAMOUS PLAY,
SOFHIA. SOPHIA.
The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Dion Boucicault, Jun.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19, THE PICKPOCKET.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
O N D I AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS OP AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, Cd. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d.
gT. GEORGE’S HALL. MELBOURNE.
—THE MELBOURNE LAUGHING SEASON—
Now at its full height.
EVERY EVENING at EIGHT O’CLOCK
The Greatest Living Mesmerist,
Mr. T. A. KENNEDY,
appears in his
Mystifying and Marvellous Entertainment!
Approaching the Borderland of the Supernatural,
and providing, in addition,
8®" NO END OF LAUGHTER!
Popular Prices. Popular Prices.
O W N HALL, YOUNG
(Late Mechanics’ Institute).
The extensive Additions and Improvements
thereto being completed, the Hall (which is capable
of seating about 700 persons) is now available for
the use of Dramatic Companies.
The Stage is large, and fitted with many Changes
of Scenery with all necessary appliances, the whole
brilliantly illuminated with 100 IG-c.p. Electric
Lights, which can be instantaneously switched on
or off at will.
Terms on application to
W. M. BARKER,
Town Clerk.
T> A R L I N GHURST HALL,
(Late Skating Rink),
FORBES AND BURTON STREETS,
Important Notice to Australian Mothers!
Mr. John Solomon, the well-known entrepeneur,
has decided to hold a
Grand Australian Baby Show
Grand Australian Baby Show
Grand Australian Baby Show
“The dear old cradle rocked us all.”
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23,
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24,
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2G,
<£3oo prize 3! £3OO
THE CHAMPION PRIZE, £lOO
Will be decided by the Public, everyone paying
for admission having a vote.
The other Prizes, awarded as follows, will be
decided by a Committee of Medical Gentlemen
Class A.—Baby Girls from 3 to G months.
Class B. —Baby Girls from G to 12 months.
Class C. Baby Girls from 12 to 18 months.
C ass D. —Baby Girls from 18 to 24 months.
Class E. Baby Boys from 3 to G months.
Class F. —Baby Boys from 6 to 12 months.
Class G. —Baby Bays from 12 to 18 month s .
Class H. —Baby Boys from 18 to 24 months.
First Prize in each class, £lO.
Second Prize in each class £5.
Third Prize in each class, £3 10s.
PRIZE OF £25 FOR TWINS.
SPECIAL PRIZE FOR TRIPLETS
SPECIAL AND VALUABLE PRIZES
Have also b°en generously given by Messrs.
Lasseter and Co.. Messrs. Hordern Brothers (Pitt-
st.), Messrs. Beale and Co., Mess s. Tuttle and
Co. (George-st.), Messrs. Packman and Son, Park
st. ; and other leading firms. These will be
awarded to unsuccessful competitors in the differ-
ent Classes.
o
“ A nation’s future lies in the cradles
of its children.”
lar* ENTRIES are ENTIRELY FREE!
Parents are especially directed to the fact that
Mr. JOHN SOLOMON promoted and will per-
sonally direct this vast enterprise.
ANTED,
AND ACTIVE
RESIDEKTT AGENTS
In Country Districts for our
Immensely and World-renowned Publications.
No Capital Required.
£lO WEEKLY GUARANTEED
To Energetic Agents during Christinas Season.
Apply at once, MANAGER,
P.O. Box 570, Sydney, N.S.W.
w
Shipping.
SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Massilia . .j4918C. Fraser ~ ..'Oct. 26 |Nov. 1 'Nov.4
Arcadia .. 16362 W. B. Andrews 'Nov. 9 jNov. 15 NovlS
Rome .. 5011 A. W. Adamson Nov. 23 Nov. 29 Dec. 2
Britannia ..'6257 Cl. N. Hector .. Dee. 7 [Dec. 13 Decl6
Carthage .. 5011 C. E. Baker . .'Dec. 21 IDec. 27 DecSO
Victoria .. 16268 J. F. Cates ..'Jan. 4 !Jan. 10 Jan 13
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates :
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B. - Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON,. ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O'Connell-street.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Capo Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are hooked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines f of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £O3 to £O6.
Time-cards, railway maps, and glide books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
E. P. HOUGHTON, Acting Manager.
R. S N A Z E L L E.
Furniture, &c.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOIIN
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
H BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.—The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand,
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LANE,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 1G guineas.
and
sizes.
Furniture Warehousemen,
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
k
/i AN VA S FOLDING
VV COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed - light, strong, and
handy, 10a. Gd.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and np to 20 feet.
SUPER OR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS.
Gx8,8x8,9 x 8, 10 x 8,12 xB, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord, G x 8,6 s. Gd.; 8 x 8,
95.; 9 x 8,9 s. Gd.; 10 x 8,10 s. Gd.; 12 x 8,12 s. Gd.;
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets. .
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
T>OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
ill restful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
I
J
MERICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
k
QANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Prior Very Low,
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring O'Connell Streets.
L" AWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
/ 4 ARDEN SEATS, Ills. Verandah Chairs,
lndian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB.
RATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
155. ; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
Gd., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets. ,
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
EWT 0 N AND LAMB.
N
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS,
Writes a correspondent in the S.M.
Herald :
Let sceptics soof! as they will, but I believe if there
was to be a call as to v, ho is on the Lord’s side, we should
sej w.uu we should see.
And this is the sort of thing for which we pay
twopence!
Dear Bulletin, —In reply to remarks of “War-
rigal Jack” on “The Mythical Sundowner,” kindly allow
me to offer a short comment. He talks of 12 men who
refused 15s. a week, &0., for bushcutting, but he does not
state what were the current rate of wages. Many men
have refused work at 15s. per week for the simple reason
that they would rather starve than lower the standard rate
of wages, and their refusal is to be commended. The Lon-
don dock labourers have commanded the sympathy of the
civilised world because they struck for an increase of
wages, which is a different thing from resisting a reduction
of wages already prevalent. Were swagmen eager to
accept any rate offered, station hands would soon be will-
ing to take “ 5 bob a week and tucker.” Such a state of
affairs would no doubt be pleasant for the squatters and
their champion, “Warrigal Jack.”—Yours, &0., Tub Bio
Irishman.
John Croker was found in Russell-sfcreet,
Melbourne, the other morning, trying to climb a
lamp-post. A constable passed by and asked him
what he wanted up there. Mr. Croker replied
that he was on his way to put the moon out and
give the world a start, and politely asked the con-
stable to give him a leg-up or let him stand on his
helmet. Was ever a policeman so insulted before ?
Mr. Croker is now in the Gaol Hospital for men-
tal and physical repairs. He must have been mad
to think that by putting the moon out he could
give this wicked and blase world a start. Why,
during the last hundred years the philosophers
have put Hell out—barring a small Hell of the
farthing-dip order, not worth speaking about,
owned principally by the Salvation Army and
Pastor Allen—and the world has never moved an
eyelash. Every small poet’, when he brings out
his first book of rhymes, and every editor, launch-
ing his little journalistic bark on the tanglefoot
tide of public opinion in a pint-pot bush township,
is filled to bursting with the same erroneous idea
that be is going to give the world a start. Nothing
will do this, except, perhaps, the Day of Judg-
ment.
This a strange true story supplied by a
reliable authority lately from the Northern Ter-
ritory. Our informant says : —•“ We were making
for the ruby mines, myself and my mate. We had
not had much experience of the country, and what
we had seen we did not appreciate ; but we were
prepared to see it out, till one day at sundown,
when we were two days south, we struck a party
who were bound on the same errand. They were
camped in damp, scrubby country, and had been
there nearly a week awaiting the recovery of one
of the party who was down with a slight illness.
We camped with the crowd, and at about 10
o’clock the same night, as we were sitting in
their tent playing euchre and talking of our
prospects, we were suddenly alarmed by the swish
of a spear through the roof. The weapon struck
one of the party, and was driven a few inches into
his shoulder. He was the only man undisturbed.
He looked up fiom his hand, shrugged himself,
and observed with emotion : ‘ Curse them mos-
quitoes!' Next morning at six Jack and I were
doing the home stretch. We didn’t mind the
niggers and their spears, but that ingenuous re-
mark opened up a vista of mosquitoes that knocked
us endways.”


ARTICLES FOR THE TOILET,
used by refined people, must have a reputation for
purity. Colgate and Co. have won 30 first awards.
If you try Colgate’s Cashmere Bouquet Soap you
will understand what for.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND DEALERS
IN TOILET REQUISITES.
Cleaver’s
Transparent
Best & Cheapest
Bar None!!
f/7W>
sg m
immmtrnmMM a
m
iiK'/i
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition, London.
(By Special Appointment.)
Wholesale Agents; Balchrn, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS, LONDON,
“bugle” ib ir, .a. iut hd .alie stout.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skill full ii forged labels have lately been palmed off on the public
'We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrat. rs of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will he given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
BA.LCHI2XT, JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
Asls. for Kupper’s Hlberfeld Lager Boor
CSpocially Brewed for Australia}' Absolutely Free from Sediment.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, October 15, 1889.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Booligal
Construction of Iron Screw Hopper
Barge
Boiler and Engines for steamer
Thetis, Manufacture of
Bridge, Mograni Creek, road
Stroud to Tinonee
Bridge, Prospect Greek, near Fair-
field -
Wednesday, .
October 23,
at 11 o’clock,
Supply and Erection of Pumping
Engines, North Shore (contract
No. 56)
Additions, &o., Australian Mu-
seum.
Additions, Court House, Gosford
Wharf, Brushgrove, Clarence River
Pipelaying, No. 64, North Shore
Water Supply Pott’s-hill to Rydc
Pumping Station
Bridge, Laybury Creek, Wiseman’s
Ferry to Singleton’s Mill
Bridge, Doctor’s Gully, at Merriwa
(fresh tenders)
Closing in Shed at South Eastern
Side, Circular Quay
Conveyance of Coal. Wollongong
to Shoalhaven River, 1890
Conveyance of Coal, Newcastle to
Nambaccra River, 1890
Conveyance of Coal, Newcastle to
Bellinger River, 1890
Bridge, Crookhaven Creek, road
Jervis Bay to Greenwill Point
Richmond Bridge, Timber for re-
decking
Colonial ArchitectAnnual Con-
tracts, 1890—(deposit of £10 re-
quired with tender for each ser-
vice) —
Masons’ and Pavlovs’ Work
Wednesday,
Nov. 6,
at 11 o’clock.
Carpenters’ Work
Bricklayers’ Work
Slaters’ Work
Plasterers’ Work
Painters’ and Glaziers’ Work
Blacksmiths’ Work
Plumbers’ Work
Ironmongery, Supply of
Building Stone, Sydney Gaol
Supply of
Building Stone, Parramatta
Gaol, Supply of
Building Stone, Maitland Gaol,
Supply of
Sweeping Chimneys, Public
Buildings, in Police District
of Sydney
Coffins, Police District of Syd-
ney, &c., Supply of
' Winding, &c., Clocks, Public
Buildings, Sydney
Furniture, Supply of
Chairs, Supply of
Carpets, Supply of
Blinds, supply of
Bridge, Hunter River at Elderslie,
Ironwork, Contract No. 1
Ditto ditto ditto, Erection, Con-
tract No. 2
Bridge over Box Creek, Road
Balranald to Ivanhoe
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office,
Warialda
Broken-hill Gaol, Erection of
Broken-hill Post and Telegraph
Office, Erection
Court-house, Junee, Erection of
Wednesday,
Nov. 20,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday
Dec. 4,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
J + LUDOWICI & SONS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
m
lISHLU
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
o
Office and Factory: 162;Clarence-St„ Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets,
A NEW REMEDY FOR DIFFI-
CULTIES.
A leading Dublin paper, having heard so much
said in both the Irish and English press in favour
of a wonderful oil, that they determined to inves-
tigate the matter themselves by personal inter,
view with people who had used it, in order to
learn whether or not one-half that was said of its
magical power was true, or whether it was one of
those gigantic advertising schemes the magnitude
of which in these modern times fairly takes one’s
breath away. Their representative interviewed a
number of people in various parts of Ireland who
had been cured by the application of the oil, and
in every instance he found that the published
statements were true and correct in every par-
ticular. Everywhere people were enthusiastic in
its praise.
A Captain of the Royal Irish Fusiliers, who
had suffered long from rheumatism and sprained
ankle, said: “The effect after three applications
of St. Jacobs oil was simply marvellous ; the pain
at once departed, and has never returned. ”
A prominent hotel proprietor, after suffering
years from rheumatic gout, said: “It would be
hard to conceive of anything working a cure so
rapidly as St. Jacobs oil did in my case.”
A sergeant of the Royal Irish Constabulary told
of a friend who had been a great sufferer for years
with rheumatism in the back, suffering great pain ;
using two bottles of St. Jacobs oil the pain en-
tirely disappeared, and never returned.
A young woman in Castlebar told the reporter of
the almost miraculous cure which her mother,
aged 70 years, had experienced from using the in-
valuable St. Jacobs oil. She had been almost
helpless for two years from rheumatism, and was
completely cured by using less than one bottle of
the oil.
A prominent surgeon in Tipperary related the
case of a parish priest who had for a long time
suffered the most intense agony from sciatica,
completely cured in three days by rubbing himself
well with St. Jacob’s oil.
A very enthusiastic Irishman in Gort was met
with, shouting “Long live St. Jacob’s oil.” He
had suffered the most intense rheumatic pains for
years, and was cured by using the contents of one
bottle of the oil.
A cooper in Beale, County Kerry, Ireland,
related how his knee was twice its natural size,
stiff and painful, and he was unable to stand,
swelling and pain entirely disappeared after using
St. Jacob’s oil one week.
An old gentleman in Mallow was cured in one
week after having commenced to use St. Jacob’s
oil, of severe rheumatism of six years’ standing.
On returning to Dublin, the reporter called on
some of the leading chemists, for the purpose of
learning their views. Messrs. R. Simpson & Co.,
of 16 Henry-street, the -well known chemists,
stated that St. Jacob’s oil was the most popular
remedy now being sold : that it is no uncommon
thing for them to sell 1200 bottles of the oil in a
single week. That their last order was for 600
dozen, or 7200 bottles, and you can rest assured,
said Mr. Simpson, the senior partner, that no
medicine would have this enormous sale unless it
possessed actual merit.
VERY MUCH BETTER.
“ Oh, yes, I assure you, very much better ! In
fact a far superior watch to the Waterbury in every
respect! They are of European manufacture,
and are specially made to our order for the Sydney
market. They will stand hard work and rough
usage better than any other cheap watch made,
and are particularly adapted for the bush by reason
of their being fitted with a patent non conducting
percussive backstay on the new dynamic theory .of
salvation by results. You can swim a river or
climb a tree, attend one of Varley’s lectures to
men only, or join the new Royal Naval Reserve
under patronage of the Legislative Council for
the preservation of Imperialism with absolute im-
punity. We can highly recommend these watches,
and the price is ”
“ Young man, spare me ! I have done you no
wrong. Yet this watch was sent up the bush to
me by a friend on the strength of your reeommen
dation. Look at it! ‘ Overwound ’ did you say ?
Well, perhaps so. But it resolved itself into the
state of utter disorganisation in which you now
see it, in the dead of night, when the household
was buried in slumber, without any provocation it
went off at half-cock and scattered consternation
through my humble dwelling. The dynamic
theory, you will observe, is an utter failure, as
the works can now be gathered in a teaspoon.
The percussion backstay is a fraud, for the
wheels are made of tea-chest lead, and were un-
equal to the strain. Take it ! Hell it to some
other idiot who wants a cheap Swiss watch to
gladden his home with, and bring me a Water-
bury. You are young ; it is not too late to amend,
forbear while there is time. You are not com-
pelled to lie for a mere living. Keep the honest,
truthful, trustworthy Waterbury ever before you
as an example and cease to beguile the unwary
with these got-up-to-sell European imitations.
There is but one low-priced watch which performs
the functions of a timekeeper—that is, the Water-
bury. And you know it.
The Referee
It has been cabled that Searle has ex-
pressed his willingness to row Stansbury, and that
he expects a hard race. Searle should always beat
Stansbury, being an infinitely more active man,
with practically the same amount of strength.
Searle “has more use of himself,” as the racing
men say. No less an authority than Hanlan once
said to the present writer, speaking of Searle and
Stansbury: “ That man Stansbury has great
strength — but he’s too clumsy; too clumsy
altogether. He’ll never row a wager-boat like
Searle. A man wants to be quick as well as
strong in a wager-boat. Searle, ” he said rumina-
tively, “ Searle is two men. We have none of us
any business rowing Searle. He’s a wonder.”
This was said while the match with O’Connor was
being arranged and before Searle went to Eng-
land. Hanlan then said that he did not think
O’Connor could beat Searle, but that he was the
only man he knew of that was at all likely to
hurry him. From which we may guess that the
wily Hanlan did not lose much by his country-
man’s defeat the other day.
“I have a good opinion of bookmakers
generally. I know it is the fashion for backers
who lose money by their own stupidity to abuse
the ring roundly, and say that all bookmakers are
the biggest thieves alive. But, for my own part,
I am glad of the opportunity that now presents
itself for saying that I have always found them
straightforward with me; and, considering what
a flat I was, they offered me what were, upon the
whole, fair prices. I have often owed the ring
money, and they have not, with one or two ex-
ceptions, bothered me for it.”— Mr. Benzon’z
Experiences.
* _ * *
The Caulfield Stakes, for which Dread-
nought beat a high-class field, last Saturday, has
shed a ray of light upon the great sporting sub-
ject. Among the twelve horses saddled up for
that race at least four had been heavily supported
for the Melbourne Cup, while the remaining eight
included first favourites and popular “tips” for
the V.R.C. Derby and Caulfield Cup. That the
actual winners of two, or all three, of those coming
events figured in this goodly company is probable.
When Mentor last year foreshadowed his “Cup”
victory by taking the Caulfield Stakes, the third
place was filled by a future Derby winner in En-
sign. On paper, as well as on appearances,
Dreadnought is a much better colt than Ensign
ever was, and as he fairly smothered Carbine (who
should have annexed the blue riband in 1888) at
71bs. more than weight for age, we take it that the
approaching Derby is a sweet thing for Dread-
nought, provided Tom Payten can keep him
ripe until the day. Also, if Singapore is
the equal of his crack stable-companion— and
Eeople, who sometimes know, assert that he is even
etter —then Mr. James White has an excellent
chance of pulling off the big double, as he did in
Martini-Henry’s year. Top-weight Carbine, in-
deed, is not put out of the Melbourne Cup by his
running in the Caulfield Stakes, nevertheless it is
evident that a really great three-year-old, at7st.
61b., must hold him safe. The champion can be
made a bit better by November 5, but he can’t be
made good enough to beat Singapore if that noble-
looking beast is another Dreadnought. For par-
ticulars on that point the unenlightened backer
must look to the betting-market. The Bulletin
has already tried to point out, however, that even
an exceptionally smart youngster, carrying Singa-
pore’s weight, cannot beat a first-class old ’un (so
early in the season as November) handi-
capped well on the sunny side of nine stone.
Several of the dangerous middle division —notably
Silverton, Benzon, and Tradition —ran in the
Caulfield Stakes without leaving much clue to
their chances for the Cup. Tradition certainly
seemed out of sorts on Saturday, and gave one the
impression that he is less able to stay a tiring
course now than when he was fatter and bigger a
year ago. Silverton also looked dull in the coat
and somewhat jaded, but he showed prominently
at the head of the field and must be dangerous for
the Caulfield Cup if he has a serious try. Benzon
took one’s fancy more than either of the two last
mentioned, but his Melbourne Cup prospects were
neither improved nor discounted by a very nega-
tive performance on Saturday. Such as Bravo,
Pakeha, and Chicago will do “all they know” in the
Caulfield Cup, so, with the possibility of a 141 b.
penalty hanging over their backs, it is not worth
while to discuss them for the Cup in the mean-
time. Perhaps a Mentor or a Dunlop may burst
into view on Saturday, but up to the present there
is no real good thing, either on public form or
private trials, sticking out of the middle-weighted
lot at four years old and upwards. With no
“ nailers ” to meet at a disadvantage, Singapore—
unless his merits are much over-rated —will go
very near to winning the Melbourne Cup. As
regards the big Caulfield handicap, Bravo is bound
to be nearly “there” at the finish—anyway,
O’Brien should beat Hales, who rides Pakeha, on
this occasion. But it is a proverbially flukey
race, which all sorts and conditions of horses have
managed to win.
* # *
Betting at Caulfield has been purified and
made safer for the unwary by a Tattersall’s ring,
from which the wicked welsher is rigorously ex-
cluded. A lot of paddock-room seems to be mono-
polised by this sacred enclosure, and the result is
a general pushing of the public into the Birdcage.
For the first time a charge of half a-orown was
made on Saturday, and with such success that the
supply of Birdcage tickets ran clean out at an
early hour. Things are certainly looking up for
the V.A.T.O. except in the matter of railway
arrangements. Getting home from Caulfield,
when you happen to be stone-broke, is a more
wearisome job than ever.
# * *
There is a boat club, started at Hyde, on
the Parramatta, and as some very strong young
fellows live in the vicinity, it ought to turn out
a few good men. Some time back, when all the
professional rowing talent were on the river, _ a
“ sport ” from Sydney was up at Ryde on a visit,
and wondered why the inhabitants didn’t do
more rowing ; whereupon a local man said, “I’ll
bet you a hundred pounds we can turn out a four-
oared crew-of men now living here to beat any four
you can get in Sydney, bar nobody. ” And the
Sydney man was nearly taking it up on behalf of
the Mercantile Rowing Club until he learned that
the Ryde four were Peter Kemp, Stansbury,
Neilson,. and Joe Kemp. Whereupon he whistled
softly and gave it best.
* * *
Talking of crews, theN.S. W. intercolonial
eight to represent N.S.W. have been picked, and
if ever a downtrodden, mismanaged community
had a show for a win this is the time. In pre-
vious years men who had no right to a seat in the
boat got it because they talked themselves to the
front, or because they were “good sorts,” or be-
cause they belonged to the right “push.” This
year, however, the crew has been selected without
fear or favour, and should make a good show.
It must always be remembered that the
facilities for eight-oar rowing in Sydney are
miserable compared to what thay are in Mel-
bourne. On their placid though evil-smelling
river, the Melbourne crews are always sure of
smooth water, while in Sydney harbour it is some-
times so rough as to be dangerous for the boats to
go out. An eight-oar boat broke fair, in two near
Circular Quay, one day, owing to the bow and
stern getting lifted on waves. The crew swam to
their shed. Up the Parramatta River there is
good rowing, but it is a long way from Sydney,
and few men can afford the time to go up their
and practise. And as Victoria also has a splendid
crew this time, there should be a great battle.
* # *
Lady Robinson rode to the Y.A.T.C. races
last Saturday, on the back of a prancing steed.
# * *
The Argus correspondent in Sydney wired
last week that Carlyon was backed for the Mel-
bourne Cup at 100 to 6. Mr. White’s horse was
never entered for the race, so the Argus man was
probably thinking 12 months back.
THE CAULFIELD CUP.—A TIP,
When lost and won is the Caulfield Cup
(Now don’t you let this get wind)
The judge may order the number up
Of a chestnut horse called Chetwynd.
But should he fail to take the trick.
And be “ done like a dinner,”
The crowd will cry Bravo ! as Mick
Rides in upon the winner.


Medical.
FOR THE
Hot Weather.
To COUNTERACT the enervating, relaxing, and evil
effects of the heat and depressing nature of the
climate in this country during the summer months,
no remedy lias ever appeared before the public to
equal or even that would bear comparison with
Clements’ Tonic.
It prevents fever, malaria and ague, keeps up
the appetite, assists digestion and assimilation,
stimulates the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels;
thus preventing liver and kidney disease, and
warding off their unpleasant symptoms, as head-
ache, constipation, piles, gout, rheumatism, dropsy,
apoplexy, &c. The summer is the time when
Clements’ Tonic is the medecine par excellence
for the people. It prevents the relaxation and
depression so prevelent in the hot weather in
these latitudes.; it enriches the blood, aids
perspiration, and restores all lost nerve-power;
is the only reliable anti-febrifuge and pick-me-up
prepared in the colonies, and can be depended
upon to do good and'cure disease. The action of
Clements’ Tonic is certain, sure, and prompt;
relief is felt immediately after taking the first
dose; it acts direct on the seat of disease and
cures the cause, and then the effects of that cause
cease. Most other remedies offered are prepared
with a view of treating the symptoms, con-
sequently, as soon as the effect of the medicine
passes away the trouble returns, and the patient
wants another bottle of medicine. This may be
very good for the maker of the remedy (?) but it is
not at all satisfactory to the patient. Clements’
Tonic positively, effectually, and permanently
cures ; it does not only relieve, like most of the
narcotic mixtures sold, but radically effects a cure;
and if the patient only avoids the source from
which he or she contracted the illness in the
first place, a relapse is impossible. Moreover,
Clements’ Tonic does not constringe the gastric
vessels of the stomach or cause indigestion, and
will not injure nor discolour the teeth. We shall be
glad to enter into particulars with any corres-
pondents who like to address us at Newtown.
Sydney, personally or by post.
« Very glad lie used Clements’ Tonic.”
19, Elizabeth-st., Sydney, August 15, 1889.
Dear Sir,—For many months sleep, appetite and nerve
power had almost deserted me, and, at times, I suffered
such severe nervous and neuralgic headaches that life was
almost unbearable. .
After trying many “ safe and sure cures, without rehet,
I was persuaded to" give Clements’ Tonic a trial, and
am verv glad that I did so, for now I am quite free from
pain can sleep well, and do my business with a degree of
pleasure that I have not experienced for some months. It
will give me great pleasure to recommend Clements
Tonic to all my friends and customers on the roads that
I travel, and, wishing the remedy every success, 1 remain,
yours faithfully, J. T. BOUNDS.
“His Life almost a Burden.”
The Fort, Dawes Point, Sydney, August 12th, 1889.
Sir.-1 have been a great sufferer from langour, loss of
appetite, and depressed spirits, which made my life almost
a burden. I had no inclination to eat or drink even the
most palatable delicacies which make a modern table
agreeable - and to such an extent did the indisposition
affect my general health, that it was impossible for me to
properly attend to my business.
I was recommended to try Clements’ Tonic, which
I did with little hope of relief; but, after taking a few
doses I felt a decided change, and by the time I had
finished a bottle, I could sleep the night through, and
awake next morning refreshed and with an appetite for
breakfast. I now eat and drink anything that comes in
mv way and by the use of an occasional dose of your valu-
able Tonic, I am enabled to enjoy life thoroughly.—l re-
main yours faithfully, P. DAVIS.
“ Thought his case beyond the Power of
Medicine.”
Kangaroo Valley, N.S.W., April 3, ’B9.
Dear Sir —I have very much pleasure in bearing witness
to the great value of 'Clements’ Tonic in cases of
LASSITUDE, NERVOUSNESS AND CONSTITUTIONAL
DEBILITY GENERALLY. For more, than 12 months I
was a martyr to extreme lassitude, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, and their concomitant train, of physical troubles,
so much so that I feared I should have to abandon my
profession as a journalist, writing being particularly
irksome and laborious to me. I tried several advertised
tonics (’) with little or no good result, and began to think
my case beyond the power of medicine to cure. However,
seeing your Tonic advertised in some of my Exchanges,
I concluded to try it as a dernier resort;” and lam
pleased to say the result was most satisfactory. After
takino- one bottle I found my appetite much improved ; I
could sleep more soundly, and felt refreshed next morn-
in,,. i continued the medicine, taking in all six large
bottles and gradually all my distressing symptoms dis-
appeared. I now feel myself stronger than ever, and as
near perfect health as a man who has to bear the strain of
constant literary work can expect to be. I can confidently
recommend Clements’ Tonic to all persons suffering
from loss of nerve force through sickness -or mental over-
work, and am most happy to support my testimony with
mv signature.—And remain, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
P. JEFFERSON WALLACE,
Editor and Proprietor “ Kangaroo Valley Pioneer.”
“ Gave him new Health and Strength.”
75 King Street, Sydney, March 19, ’B9.
Dear Sir,— Kindly send me two more bottles of
Clements’'Tonic and permit me to express my thanks
and gratitude at the results obtained by taking two large
bottles. 1 had had a great amount of business worry to
contend against, which, together with the long hours I had
stuck to it, completely undermined my constitution, and
made me feel very tired, weak and ill, my nerves being
quite'shattered. I was so nervous that the accidental
slamming of a door would cause me to start violently, my
heart would beat very rapidly, and I would break out in a
profuse perspiration, afterwards having a sensation of
extreme weakness, lasting for some hours ; my sleep at
night was disturbed ; I awoke in the morning with head-
ache and aching limbs, and quite unrefreshed. I had no
appetite no strength, and no inclination to work, and was
completely run out. I was persuaded by your advertise-
ments to try Clements’ Tonic, and am a different man
ever since • it gave me new health and strength, increased
mv appetite, and made me relish my food ; I increased in
flesh I lost all nervous feelings, and now feel stronger
than’ever. and am glad to bear testimony to the value of
your wonderful remedy. Yours, &c., W. D. BRAHAM.
“Teels like a New Man altogether.”
Richmond, October 5, 1888.
Hear Sir.—lt is with feelings of great pleasure that I
pen these few lines. I have been a sufferer from GENERAL
DEBILITY and INDIGESTION for the last five years, and
have tried almost every known remedy without the
slightest benefit. I had given up all hope of being cured,
when by good luck I saw your Tonic advertised in the
Windsor Gazette. I determined to try it, and after the
third dose the change was remarkable. I took three
th>s and now feel like a new man altogether,
hottres, ana no WILLIAM JAMES MARKER,
You have here convincing proof and most conclusive
evidence of the truth of the proprietor’s assertions. These
people have used Clements’ Tonic, are people of
repfite honor and ability, and are competent to judge
of the merits of Clements’ Tonic : when they apeak so
truthful and emphatically they must convince the most
sceptical. Clements’ Tonic is sold everywhere at
2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per bottle, or packed free and forwarded
on receipt of P. 0.0. by
F. M. CLEMENTS, NEWTOWN.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans,
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Holler Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & 0 0.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
ATJCTIOBTEEES.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
4:2 Margaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he Claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advicy free to all. Charges moderate. 11. J.
Speer, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
TO YOUNG IMC3ES3XT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
IT'HE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during' the early stagesof Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early, life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, via. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inabilit} 7 to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
't -if
k I
J-
I
I".' V ■
FO
I >
i *
■
“W
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENQ, CO,, 8 BRIDCEST-, SYDNEY
‘l‘lic Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... Ppoprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No, 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOCK JUST L .A. TnT ID I ISP <3-.
Farleigli, KTettlieim, & 00.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YOPOC x STREET, x SYDMEY.
Solo Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
—(x)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in fill Details, including MACHINERY,
IMPORTED LEAIIIKRS, &c. ; and of the following Spkciai. Links: Peerless laioss Sal In Polish, Nubian
■Machine. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents Executed on favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
LTI
CONSO
i r
fe-
rn ■ r
DS
RICH AH
m
r
3
uKEoIB'fITD
This eminent Specialist, Pounder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with these widely, recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
ihc day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowel 1 , specks before the eyes,
baGifulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the cars and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or 11 )od-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which load to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, post age
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of ihe private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
ihough you be perfectly well its general inform-
lion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
| tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will bo found a bst of carefully-pre-
pared questions, w'hich will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment,
j Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by tire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE.
“Pa, inquired Bobby, as they were returning from a revivalist meeting, win do
those people shout so loud ; is God deaf ? ”
“No, Bobby, but in a case of that kind He is a good way off."


Business Announcements.
BEALE & COMPANY’S
HiTe-w Warehouse,
V
me
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM.
“ Oh, I feel so Mondayish ! ” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day” is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer-garments; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
daughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how ? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “ tired.”
Now, as purveyors of household implements, we have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assuredly
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed.
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or are
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale Patent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows :
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “ dolly,” which is worked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ;
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspended in the water, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, however careful. When the wash-
ing is ‘done, the tub should Ire wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
When yon buy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
*B2 Sc 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
*
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply you
wit ha Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South
Wales and Queensland#
Business Announcements.
ķ
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEES & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
« : ?c rr ivrfT PS ‘-T. PTrOJiT.S □COJMHU'VnO 55
‘•omrcrLi ivv ifilu
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
mm, nunns,
PONY CARTS, &c., &c.
Express k Lumber Waggons.
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
h
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
lk
XJS B
liebig COMPANY'S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
M‘Nah’s Galley Brand Whisky.
Awarded Gold Medal for Excellence at
GALLEY^&ANO
FINE OLD KICHLAND
whis** e .
h||
Ujaiji
if
N
Q — »
i ••
"/
U
il ,/
-
ii>
SWEET SPIRIT, HEAR MY PRAYER.”
Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1889.
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTOR A LISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GED D E S & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
THE WINNING NUMBERS.
BRITISH PLATE
SHEET CLASS,
1111 ■■■""l r-5 <0 I
m
$
t p
7?
V
O'*
c~>
3=-
<yi
merchants]
f 3
" 3 5°
o
m
Z O
m
x» O
t> m
O
-O 30
PA l/i.
n
i
- I'.
U
fC
€
i*2
r-*"
sa
CHLX^
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORATORS.
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
lu years Western Australia has made very
great progress, and, now that the success and per-
manency of the various Coal, Gold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerative
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
PERTH,
the Capital City of the Coming Colony, whilst
it is Cheap.
£lO BUILDING SITES! jEIO
Ten Pounds. Ten Pounds.
Largo Allotments- Cood Freehold Building
Land. Splendid Position. Torrens’ Title.
City Allotments from £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy Terms. Dis-
count for Cash. Buyers of Five Lots receive a
Title FREE OE CHARGE.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad-
dress on application by
The Intercolonial Investment Go,, Limited,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager
COIEMANE&SONS
v
THE TREE OF LIFE.
Eucalypte. Oil
Victory Ointment.
The only pure Eucalypte in the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—2sl Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
R
EMBROCATION
J'
1:
I I //
jpo. 11
IIev/erxwhere^
u
jh


Are showing some very pretty and stylish
Next Royal Arcade, Opposite Central Markets,
PRING COSTUMES
made at their own Establishment,
Also some really CHOICE SEEING MILLINERY of the Newest Styles-
TTO'P-'nTTRIT sl»cL "2",
488, 490 George street, Sydney,
Ifext Royal Arcade. Opposite Central Markets.
[PANT, LTD.
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 pitt Street, Sydney,
. . „„ p - m „, _ nd . the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
WISH their former Patrons and 3 JAMES 0- MARCH AND, Manager-
heir new cusine a trial.
Rather too Biblical for the shoemaker.
‘•How does that pair suit, madam?” 1 Well
my feet are Hinnom ; but they can t be called
Tophet. ” —Ex.
There is a society in Auckland, N.Z.,
established for the purpose of proving that the
earth is flat. So far it has only proved that the
members are flat.
The unbiased London sporting authorities
reckon that Slavin can whip Smith. Smiths
only show is to call himself Carmgton. He would
then be invincible.
An Inebriate Retreat is to be erected at
Cheltenham, near Melbourne, shortly. It would
be a graceful thing to ask one of the distillers o
fine old Yarraville whisky to lay the corner-stone.
Mr. John Yale has been sent on a temper-
ance tour by the Victorian Alliance. Some of the
members are making themselves unpleasant be-
cause he has been allowed £7 a week from the
Alliance Fund. This seems hard. Even a tern-
perauce lecturer should be allowed his hotel ex-
penses.
Lord Eldon, the veteran English judge*
once kept a judgment on hand 20 years, they sap
and then coolly remarked : The Court has taken
some time to deliberate over this case. Meriy i.
Queen in Melbourne beats it, for the course of the
suit is concurrent with the whole history of Par-
liamentary Government in Victoria. Last week
it came to the surface again. Judge Kerferd and
Sir Archibald Michie were in the witness-box.
Plaintiff Merry has given up employing lawyeri,
and goes “on his own hook, like the famous
Slack of yore in Melbourne who was such a thorn
in the side of the other Slack, the bookmaking
leviathan. The litigant was Joe, the bookie was
Billy, no relation. While he lounged on the brass
railing of the Albion and talked with John Clee-
land, chaffers would come up with Hallo, Hilly .
I see you was up again in the Supreme Cour t
to-day !” whereupon Slack would come out in his
roundest Yorkshire stingo.
In connection with the recent floods m
Victoria, a touching story of heroic devotion on
on the part of a yellow dog of humble birth and
no personal characteristics barring a stub tail has
lately reached this office. Stories of canine
devotion are slowly but surely making the people
dead tired we know, but, as we have hitherto
dumped the big, flat foot of incredulity down cn
the dog-perjury, and as this anecdote hears the
imprint of or ginality and versiinilitude, we feel
justified in lending it the light of our countenance.
A man named Jacks was coming down the
Campaspe in a boat, having been up to Elmore
for supplies; he had a lop-tailed yellow dog
on board, and the river, which had already
slopped over a considerable portion of the
surrounding country, washed the old, home-
made tub along at a great gait till they
reached a bad bend, when the punt struck a
snag and went over, spilling Jacks and his tailless,
orphan dog into the excessive wetness. After
being spun about and ducked under a trifle, the
dog swung right end up, and struck out for a
patch of high ground where some refugees we,re
roosting. When the animal reached the land he
looked back for his master, and appeared greatly
distressed in mind because that gentleman re-
mained out in the stream, floundering round with
no apparent intentions. The dog tried to express
his sentiments by howling, but, seeing that Ins
remarks carried no weight, he plunged into the
flood again, and made for Jacks, and the people cn
the island saw him worrying amongst his master s
clothing for a while, after which he paddled to
land, bearing something in his mouth. The noble
and intelligent yellow dog reached the shore afti r
a severe struggle, and dragged his precious burden
beyond the reach of the waters. It was a parcel
of sausages.
□
0
&
Q
v
¥
1
a
Hl'
~
ROBERTS & CO..
—W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers, Importers, Iron and Machinery Merchants,
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Grace church Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF—
Railway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers'
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF—
Engineers' and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders’
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Kortine’s Gai Fnsines Tlie best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Bmddlck’s WaufSSdGw Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
k
A Certain and Immediate Relief
in all Cases of
Bltcnniatism, Neuralgia,
.Sciatica,
Sprains and Bruises.
Being used at Victoria Barracks,
General Post Office, and by the
Sydney Omnibus Co.
Invaluable in the Stable.
Hundreds of Testimonials as to
Us efficacy. Everyone should use
“SHARK OIL.”
Sample Bottle sent Post Free/or
Three (3) Penny Stamps.
at all Chemists, or from the SHARK OIL MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
Post Office Chambers, Pitt Street, SYDNLV.
A prize ram drowned himself in the
Murray the other day. He was worth £5OO, and
left no will.
“ The Vagabond ” writes to Sydney D.T.
pointing out that the Samoan famine is by no
means at an end, that only 20 tons of rice have
been forwarded from Sydney, and that owing to
contradictory newspaper reports the flow of Sydney
charity has been abruptly dammed back, while
“ the very extensive committee of reverend gentle-
men and others formed at the meeting in the
Town-hall had done nothing in the matter, in fact
appeared to have been formed for the purpose of
doing nothing.” The letters written by Mr.
Thomas, dealing with the wants of the brave,
generous, and intelligent Samoans, have been mis-
laid, and his offer to lecture pooh-poohed, and
now, despairing of any assistance from the Sydney
Samoan Relief Committee, he appeals to the
public to send their subscriptions to the office of
the ’ Daily Telegraph as immediate action is
necessary.
tt \.l // / ,
v Photographic.
' Viewsf r |\PoßTF\Ai ts
*l*(-oiu
S 3, isum
DHL
Send for Price List and Circular!
MTOHiIHI
“NO TENSION” SEWING MACHINE.
NOISELESS-LIGHTEST RUNNING,,
Most Beautiful and Durable Work,
AND DOES NOT INJURE HEALTH.
ALSO FOR
Beehives and Supplies, Incubators and Brooders,
Patent Extending Trellis, Stoves for Wood, Coal,
Gas or Oil, Mangles and Washing Machines,
Carpet Sweepers, Preserving Jars, Ice Chests and
Refrigerators, American Egg Cases with Portable
Fillers.
HEBBLEWHITE «St CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOK of NATURE and ILLUSTRATED
MATRIMONIAL GUIDE. -A full and explicit
explanation of the structure and uses of the organs of life
and. generation in man and woman, intended especially
for the married, or those intending to marry, and who
Conscientiously and honestly desire to inform themselves
upon the intent and nature of marriage and its duties, to
which is added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon
all diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting
from infection or sexual excesses and abuse, with much
■ other valuable and highly important information, illustrated
with more than fifty engravings, by M. Lafayette Byrn,
M.D. Price 3s. Cd., post 4s.
Works of Rabelais, complete, by post 3s. 6d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed, and the Guide to Female
Loveliness, Is. The Fruits of Philosophy, post Is. 2d. Mrs.
Besant’s Law of Population, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful
Song Book, extra large, Is. Cd. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s.
Aristotle, complete, 3s. (id., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. Cd.,
post Is. 9d. New complete Fortune Teller, 2s. The
Elements of Social Science, 3s. Cd. post 4s.
“The Matron’s Manual of Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs ; price 75., posted 7s. 6d.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” price Cd.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates ; price 75.,
post 7s. Cd.
Write for price of any book not advertised that you
may require.
R. B E A. R,
Central Book Depot,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of any of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling* and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Soorbutio-a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., for all impurities of the blood. 2s; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight andothei inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious I ills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and othei complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong's Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant reliet in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture, tor gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &c., &o. 3s fid; 36s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz. ...
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, «&c. Is; Bsdoz. . . . ,
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pam Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is 6d ; 13s doz. .. „ ,
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is 8s doz
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuhne) for china,
glass, wood, leather, &c. 6d &Is ; os &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbohsed Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is6d; 6s bd & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Improved Colias, for the removal of grease
spots and stains from silks, satin, kid gloves, 6tc. 6d
& Is ; 5s & 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &0., from the hair. Is ; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). 6d ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powders, for horses
(in tins). 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &Is lid ;8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment - the best remedy for
splints, curbs, etc. Is Od ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d ; Cs doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s,
18s doz. . „ „
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tome, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s ;
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s 6d &ss6d ; 30s & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s 156 Mixture for discharges. 3s Od.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Ronewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is Cd ; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and-Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s 6d; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. IsCd; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment forhorses. 2s; & 18s doz.
INVENTED,
MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. 0- ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay),
Trdsm.B, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Largest Stack in Sydney.
SYDNEY.
Wool.
WINOHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.
OfCLoea z
Wool Stores : CENTRAL WHARF ; Produce Stores : CIRCULAR QUAY ;
maoqxjarie STREET WORTH,
SYDNEY


K
ci
o
p
s
T
O
u
DELISSA &. PHILLIPS
3».5 BarRrCk; 3TRE.ET.
Business Announcements.
LAEMER’S
—CELEBRATED —
Health-Giving
■ ' ' AND '
Invigorating Tonic
THE TONIC OF THE AGE !
This being- one of the best Restoratives yet offerct
to the Public in the form of a Tonic.
Warranted to Build up the Constitution, a
the same time acts as a Strong 'Tiening Rea bt
rative in all cases of
Nervous Docility, Mental & Bodily Weaknes-
SK’K IEKAUA4IIE.
Bilious Complaints, Fever and Ague,
&c., &c.
Bottles at 2s. Oct. «Sz 5s
Post, Is Extra.
W. G. CAINS,
CHEMIST,
King Street, SYDNEY.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND', VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
SATIN
XADIES 1
oots^stw^
T puNKS»cac
BOSTON
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
— FOR -
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
LOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’in 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’fgs.
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
.Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
Tobacconists.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
I
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WO^tLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
5231 Clarence Street.
First Priz e MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO & CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine lluvaimaU Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor <lc Itonlto ”
Brand of Cigars and •• Empire Cigarettes.”
Medical.
Sf.
isM
j.
4
w
-aSf
*vO —
“God Bless the Duke of Argyle”
Ths most distressing forms of itching and inflam-
matory diseases of .the skin and scalp are instantly
relieved and permanently cured by the Coticuka
Remedies, when all others fail.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, cure every form of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply dis-
eases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss of
hair, from infancy to old age.
I have been cured of a most unbearable itching
skin disease by the Cuticura Remedies. They
have enabled me to escape years of suffering.
You may use my name as a reference, and any one
who wants to know about my case may write me,
inclosing stamp. W. B. BROOKS,
47 Grove Street, Providence, R. I.
I am a canvasser, and one year ago I was badly
afflicted with salt rheum, so that I was unable to
walk. I tried the Cuticura Remedies, and they
en tirely cured me. F. E. PERRY, Rome, N. T.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 50c , Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $1. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
P!M
PLES, blackheads, red, rouah, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticura Soap.
Two years ago I was attacked with eczema. I
cannot tell you what I suffered. I was the most for-
lorn spectacle you ever saw Charles Kennedy, of
this place, showed me your pamphlet on skin dis-
eases, and among them I found the description
suitable to my case. I bought the Cuticura
Remedies. I took seven bottles, with the Cutr
cura and Soap, and the result is a permanent
cure. I thought I would wait and see if it would
come back, but it has proved all you said it would
do, so I will say God bless you and yours.
THOS. L. GRAY, Leavertown, Ohio.
I, John J. Case, D. D. S., having practised den-
tistry in this country for thirty-five years, and being
well known to thousands hereabouts, with a view
to help any who are afflicted as I have been for the
past twelve years, testify that the Cuticura Rem-
edies cured me of Psoriasis, or Scaly Skin, in
eight days, after the doctors with whom I had con-
sulted gave me no help or encouragement.
Newton, N. J. JOHN J. CASE, D. D. S.
The Cuticura Remedies have permanently
cured me of dandruff and facial eruptions when all
other remedies had failed. For nine months my
head has been entirely free from the slightest signs
of dandruff, and my skin is as clear as when I was
a boy. LOU THOMPSON, New Britain, Conn.
HANDS
Soft, white, and free from chaps and
redness, by using Cuticura Soap.
Address:
E. TOWNS & CO,, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Anglo Scandinaviaii
Gold Medal
Acknowledged
The Best
HIGHLY NUTRIT4VE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY
Avery “swell” marriage was celebrated
at Christchurch (N.Z.) on 23rd September, when
Miss Ethel Moorhouse was united to Mr. A. 1.
Roberts, of Le Eons Bay. „• The iady is one of the
handsomest in New Zealand, and her presents
were splendid. 'VV '''
Not long ago, during an examination in
an English public school, an eccentric examiner
demanded : “What views would King Alfred
take of universal suffrage, the conscription, and
printed books, if he were living now ? ” Most of
the examinees threw down their pens in despair ;
one, however, more ingenious than the rest, wrote
the following answer :—“ If King Alfred were
still alive he would be too old to take any interest
in anything.”
Says someone in a daily paper ‘
When Mr. Berry (who left two or three millions) went
to Shoalhaven he found it a wilderness in the possession
of a few blackfellows and kangaroos, but within the half-
, century during which he has been the ruling spirit of a
large portion q£ the district, he has, by clearing large
tracts of country, by erecting thousands of miles of
fencing, by forming a hundred miles of roads, by cul-
tivating, either personally or through his tenants, large
areas of suitable land, by erecting hundreds of buildings,
and by various other means, altered the whole face of the
country, and he has established the flourishing town of
Berry, populated by a busy and thriving community, in
the midst of a magnificent district, the produce of which
will compare favourably with that of any other part of
the colony.
Mr. Berry did all this unaided, we presume, even
to the populating of the town and district ? Won-
derful man !
Editor Bulletin.— Sir,— Peak Hill, N.S. Wales,
is a rich gold-field, containing both reef and alluvial de-
posits. The gold is comparatively easily got. Being on a
hill there is little likelihood of water making its appear-
ance in the workings. Peak Hill was discovered by work-
ing miners. So much for premises. On the day that the
red flag went up there were some capitalists and repre-
sentatives of capitalists here, and they made their way
there, and pegged out and applied for leases. These
leases, if granted, will take in almost if not quite all of
the payable ground. The would-be lessees have done all
they can to prevent the public knowing anything of
the richness of the field. They have done what most
people would consider foolish —that is, when miners
pegged out claims on the ground applied for they did not
prosecute as they might have done under the Act, even
although they knew the miners were getting a large
quantity of gold. They have not been wise, they have
only been cunning. They thought they would stop the
miners from objecting to the leases, but they have made
a grand mistake.. But, what is more to the purpose—they
have got all the influence available —Parliamentary and
■otherwise—to hear on the Secretary for Mines, and yet the
leases are not granted. If anyone will take the trouble
to read that eminently lawyers’ measure, the N.S.W.
Mining Act, he will find that the Minister cannot
grant these leases : he will find in another place
that he can grant them—if he considers that machinery
is necessary to keep the water down in the workings, or if
the wash and quartz require special treatment in extract-
ing the gold. One cannot tell what anyone will think or
•consider, and therefore one cannot tell what the Minister,
who is not believed to know anything about mining,
will do. Probably, if these teases' are granted, the lessees
will apply for suspension of the labour conditions on some
pretext or other until they can float into companies.
Thus a large number of miners—probably over a thousand
—will be thrown out of employment. If the lessees did
not get suspension the number of men employed accord-
ing.to the Act would not amount to one-tenth of those
who can now make a decent living out of the mines. It
is the opinion of the miners that the placing of this
valuable deposit in the hands of a few capitalists would
be the greatest blow that has ever been given to the
mining industry for the last 25 years, and Heaven knows
the miners had blows enough iu that time. Youis, A
Miner. Tomingley, Oct. 0, 1889.
The Pall Mall Gazette says the Dock
labourers’ Hyde Bark demonstration was the most
orderly ever witnessed and that the police were
■ conspicuous by their absence. Also that of the
various speakers, John Burns was, of course the
most popular, and he undoubtedly had one ad-
vantage, over all the rest in the greater power of
his voice. But he shone even more as a collector
than as an orator. Amongst other accomplish-
ments, he is an excellent ‘catch,’ and he created
quite a furore by inviting his audience to throw
their coins to him. Not one did he miss. The
game was very popular, and the coppers came
flying in. ‘ That’ll do, he said ; now for
half-crowns only.’ And he got several. The
leader of the Dock strikers is an enormously
powerful fellow, and declares that it is his ex
ceptional physical gifts which have enabled him
to begin his day’s work at three in the morning
and continue it till close on midnight, i hat is
actually what he is doing now as General of the
strikers. ‘ Jack ’ is the beau ideal of the best typo
of British working man ; big in build, indepen-
dent in character, hearty in manner, and mtelli-
gent in mind. Hi.s fists uro £is licird &s Ins liGtid,
and his voice is as strong as his opinions.. He has
■often been before the ‘ beaks ’ for defending the
right of meeting—on Clapham-common, on Wands-
worth-common, and in Trafalgar-square. He
picked up his education by burning the midnight
•oil after 10 hours in a factory ; he is an engineer
by trade, and iron is a hard master. He polled
BOO votes at Nottingham Parliamentary election in
1885 ran George Shipton close for the presidency of
the late International Congress, and is now on the
.council of the Amalgamated Society of Engineers;
He stood for Battersea, on the full Socialist ticket,
and was returned as a member of the County
Council at the head of the poll. He is a Scot by
■extraction, he has a charming wife, he is a non-
smoker and a total abstainer.” The wharfingers
gave him the other day an almost unanimous tes-
timonial, and a police-inspector, in answer to the
query—“ What has Burns really done for them ?
replied “Why, just this, if Burns had not
.assumed the lead, we should have broken up the
procession on the very second day. if Burns
stands for Battersea at the next election his return
is sure. He is now taking up the work that used
to be done by Bradlaugh, a similar type of man,
who is now working in a more exalted, but per-
haps almost equally useful sphere.


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Sydney 13ranch :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch:
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
Brisbane Branch ;
CORNER EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Branch. 3 ‘I Hunter Street.
Money Lent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards to
any amount, repayable by instalments extending
from 1 to 7 years, at current rates of interest.
The Company also grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
Mercantile or other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months ... fi per cent.
Six „ ... 7
Twelve ~ ... g ”
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
renewal, 2 per cent. 6 months, ] 1 per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
BY ORDER OP THE BOARD OP DIRECTORS.
BUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
. I ?I VI ,P END . of 10 P er cent - P er annum declared for the
last half-year is now due, and payable to shareholders at
the Company’s Head Offices or Branches
Applications for Shares.—Forms of Application for the
Company s new issue of 20,000 Shares at par, authorised by
the last general meeting of shareholders, can be obtained
upon application to any of the Branches as above.
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act , 187 U.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office;
301 PITT STREET
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
"t immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits 3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. :
6 months, 8 per qent.; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATING.
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OP SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 40 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
Jambs Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney ;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modem
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
cqlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
THOMAS M'CREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
MUSICAL.
■pATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
x Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, «Sc.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
639 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
geateful—oomfoethtg
COCO A.
Business Announcements.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
fire
Insurance Society.
Established 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
I
r
EH
m
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton , M.L.A.,
Chairman.
Head Office;
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
THE AUSTRAL BANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
(PHILLIPS & CO).
Reserve Capital Account .... .... £250 000
Reserve Fund ...*. .... .... 61,431 10 10
Total Assets over Liabilities .... .... .... 311431 10 10
Head Office .... .... Sydney, N’.S.W.
Melbourne Office .... 464 Collins Street.
London Office .... .... 1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices ....
W - : Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
[ V ictona : Lara.
Rates for Fixed Deposits over £3O:
1\ per cent, for 3 Years
7 ~ 12 Months
6 per cent, for (
5 J
Months.
if
Balance Sheets and further information may be obtained on application to
t( Castlereagh Street, Sydney. J ' S ’ Manager.
“What is Home without a Picture?”
Xj. BEBDSTASOOIsri,
(Late E. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF. SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
Hotels.
Or
M Bourne S’
ELBOURNE
TRAMS 'PASS
EVERYI FEW MINUTES
E
palace hotel
m*
45Bsews«s«.i-
j.a.wilson
riOPMTOS
,G.W.CLAREj
Lrr manaccr
The PALACE HOTEL, BOUEKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is —
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains * *
Three HxuidredL Magsiificent Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Wkll-Yenttlated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
£3T Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
«3T- TWO PASSEHGEE OTIS LIFTS
• M
Ladles’ Boudoir, Drawing, Smoking, and Reading Rooms.
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook Si Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, la the Hotel.
Terms : Single Bedroom, 2a. Oc3L. per KTiglit.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
■ ■) ■ 3'Qc (ini
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
Medical.
DR- SMITH, XJ.S.A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET;
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
pULVEEMACHEE’S WORLD-
"*■ FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica.
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet _ “Galvanism ; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST & SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strbet West, Melbourne.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
JT. FE FI Ft E,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST A ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation;
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S Y ID 3XT E Y.
Business Announcements.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allkinds of Tinsfor Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
Al Trial Solicited.
P. C. NICHOLLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
736 Greorge Street, 736
HAYMABKBT.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, Sac., Made to Order.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Jollcr ||lour and grain gtorc6,.
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition.
1888-89.
UMBRKLLAS
RE-COVE REft
(STUDY ECONOMY
° and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool <t Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.


Medical,
NERVOUS MEN.
£
II
3?
EUREKA
\s
ELECTRIC
BELT^’
3
i\<
m
X
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address:— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. James D, Llewellyn,
L.E.C.P., M.K.0.5., L.S.A., BOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN —
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET-
fbetween Swanston <& Elizabeth Sts.),
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are FREE ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases —price,
3s. fid. (.post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Eose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
HTHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
A and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists,
..X » f The Public are requested to notice the
WCt U ULUIi ! words, iW" Itosc s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated. Eve Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you wiM get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured ©nly by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses,
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
E R V O U S DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, or BY POST HERB RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
lug valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussbn’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “ Roselund Villa,"
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOB FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Report bt Charles Watt, Esq., Lath Government
Analyst :
“I have tested a sample of the 'Maoio Meal’ for
poisonous metals auoh as Antimony and Aasenio and have
to report, aftej a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
Injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
erode should fulfil all the conditions specified In the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon:—“ I
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 3s. ; 141 b. ss. fid. ; 561 b., 18s.
fid. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
81 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth, a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILES for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring' back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the- whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ PACTS ” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the'best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which _ nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beeciiam’s Couch
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecbam, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire.
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Prof. P. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor's most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
CiL4
&
ip
PATENT
PILLS
$
&
£
CONSULT
n
OORE & rIOGG
H'
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases dtthe Gonito-Urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
I OOBBETTB BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOI.BULTATIONB FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 86 G.P.O;) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
Hotels.
so"
'v
BOWOCNS
BOWDEKT’S H-OTIESXji,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C. BO WHEN ... „ Proprietor
WESTERN HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
Elver, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and .Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water-Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
Livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE
Proprietor.
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand-
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout- the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit..
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F, GIBLIN, Manager.
jFE.esa.c3. ! ' Reac3L ! 3-Lesa.ca. !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One snillins
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland) Is. 3d.
Wholesale Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne: Gordon & Goteh.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide; Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launeeston.
“ For F’aming a Picture Heat and Well."
H x : x
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-!: t., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Potel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in ihe Colonies. » hotos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edge-,
cpecial ai ten Mon paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
k
9*r’ &
«AHUPA«TUR£RS'
ft IMPORTERS Of
WTSCAPSI
438CEORCE ST
3VDNEY ?
0/o/} 031 fit JLcusetCers
k
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
ASHE &S0llfs l
MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
k
ķ
-
V-‘v
fll/CH
INC
*y
PO
MANUFACTURED BF :
gj C/Z/imoAf STariovrS* Jt TC
aZt S*» c*W A SA>nt***AfH>
Business Announcements.
■JIHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
AND THE
New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Inhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
3BC- T. SMITH CO.,
494 Kent Street South. SYDNEY ;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
The British and New Sooth Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
T>ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months 8 per cent.
3 Months 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearins and Paraffin Gandies,
HOT A COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
LIMITED.
Factory and Office: 237 Castlereagh Street,
(Late 24 5)
S’yjDJSTttlN.
New Style of Tree.
The Company is now prepared to manufacture all kinds
of Saddles. Any infringement of the Patent will be pro-
secuted. No Saddle genuine without our Trade Mark.
ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary.
GROTH
O R
PAPER-HANGINGS.
Oils,Colours&Paints.
wall papers from
PAI
BathurstSt
Brlckfleld Hill . ——
w _a.il, tieir hope,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition — Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
RINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-rt., East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 80s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
O’ - Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather.
x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
Xiomdozx JF’a.f Ja.ioixs,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND - GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
IT
P. R. LARKIN
IMPORTER OF
W I IN* IE Q, x SPIRITS, x IB IE IE ZEI S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunvillb’s Rob’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennessy’s, Martbll’s and Sazbkac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.8..L.
J 3?"" The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. J3P" All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
s£l|olcsa'le anil Single -Bottle Bepaijtments, anfl VS4 €£eoitge-st., syflney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-OLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
CH BROS.’
ZKTES'W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
• —. ■■ ■
10,000 Bedsteads,
From lOs. 6d. to £35.
k
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Bridge St., Sydney.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* 1888-83*
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rpiiE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
A Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
|Kjr° Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are .made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
tor sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &0., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL Si GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
jagr- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
reoosrnised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SL B 1 ER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ Light and Life,”
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps,
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Cr
i
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hail. Besides having'a.most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. KILMiNSTEE to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mra Clarencloix PZotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
XjOJSTG’S impeeial hotel,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. Eirst-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TO W N S V ULK
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
■si
s
ComSSh
ROWLANDS'
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redress and Roughness of the Skin; is
most co ling , and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
•Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS'
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, » pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints—White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
ENGINES',
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILEKS,
1 to 35 h.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes,
CENTRAL MFC,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Xjatlies.
SHILLING MACHINES,
&C*j &C.
ii li ii
Wm
«sj
■KB
uhtmi '^/anufjc*’^£efiu Calatoquc
9
Hay
IjIBOLITED,
w
Haymarket, Sydney, ENDING
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
FLOULL El®,
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multituhlar Boilers,
CORNISH BOILERS*
We invite all those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
12 8, X3X, X 3 3
&
X 3 5
STREET,
_ 1'
BCAYMiA-UKIET, SYDNEY.
