

Agk your
Grocer for
Fry*a Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney. . .. _ . , ,
“ An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint o the beat Ale or Sorter. LANOBz*
Tlie EIiITE ®K.A.TI3WC3r 2E&I3ST MK 9
BEDFORD and ELIZABETH STREETS, SYDNEY.
K. A. Skinner & Co., Proprietors. K. A. Skinner, General Manager.
Patronised only by the elite of Sydney and suburbs. The Elite Rinks are the only Rinks that have been visited and patronised by their Excellencies the
Governors of the Australian Colonies.
The Naval Artillery Band in attendance every Afternoon and Evening. This Band is considered the Leading Band of Sydney.
Magnificent Composition Skating Surface,
Covering an area of 2000 Square Yards. The Largest
and Best Skating Surface in the World. As smooth as
glass ; as level as a billiard-table ; no dust and per-
fectly noiseless. We Challenge its Equal ! "liSl
The best Wood Floor ever laid cannot be compared
with it. This all good skaters acknowledge — That after
skating for Two Hours they do not feel the least fatigued,
bid quite the reverse after skating on a heavy, dusty.
Fine Floor.
Sm™S!
5000 PAIRS
OF THE
k
WORLD-RENOWNED
nnuv ramus levee-clamp skates
POR SALP. “^i
The best and most convenient Skate manufactured.
Every Professional Skater of Note in the World
uses them., What betten recommendation do you ash for f
We challenge any other Skate to compete with them.
We are the Sole Agents for Australia.
Wholesale Price -17 s. 6d. per Pair
Retail „ -20 s. „
With K. A. Skinner's Patent Roller Bearings adjusted, 158. extra.
With Richardson’s Ball-Bearings 80s. extra.
+
1000 Sets K. A. SEME'S Patent Roller-Bearings
NOW COMPLETED.
They can be adjusted to any make of Skate. Only
15s. per Set. They cannot be equalled. Try them
and be convinced.
. »•
WINSLOW’S “VINEYARD.”
Til© Standard Boiler Skates of the World.
The Immense Building is brilliantly illuminated by
Thousands of Incandescent Lamps!
tastefully arranged in arches, illuminating the building
as bright by Night as by'Day.
The Ventilation Perfect I
We challenge the : Skating Rink Croakers —who have
already started writing letters in the daily Press against
Skating Rinks-—-to find even one of the flimsy objec-
tions they raise against Skating Rinks at this Rink.
Ky No Foul Air; No Dust; Perfect Order . “IsSI
No objectionable persons allowed on the floor. We
refuse admission to hundreds weekly. We are bound
to keep our Rink select, so that any lady or gentleman
can attend any session without fear of being insulted.
We aim to make the Sydney Elite Rink
a Peumanent Place of Amusement for the elite of
Sydney and suburbs, and we request our patrons to
assist us in pointing out any objectionable persons.
Parents may feel quite safe to allow their children to
attend our Rink ; they will be protected by our staff
of gentlemanly employees.
SEASON ADMISSION TICKETS:
Gentlemen .... 455.
Ladies 40s.
Season Admission Tickets admits the holder to all
Entertainments (Carnivals included) held at any of our
Rinks in the Australian Colonies. Secure your
Season Tickets early. Do not wait until the season
is half over before purchasing them. No other Rink
erected or in course of erection can possibly compete
with this Rink.
m
■■
3-sa*
PATENTED
13 I3BQ.
12. lae I.
2S lasi.
14 1882.
II 1805.
e ia.as.
Ball Beariaagrs! I
The only genuine Ball-Bearing, “The Richardson,” imported from Chicago, U.S A., direct by us.
The demand for the “Winslow Laver Ball-Bearing Skates” has been so great that we
have decided to send for another large shipment.
The “ Winslow Lever Clamp Adjustable Ball-Bearing Skates” can only
be purchased from us. Price per pair, £5. Send in your orders at once.
We have only about 50 Sets left of the last shipment. Ball-Bearings
' adjusted to your own Skates, £4 per Set.
l
K. A. SKINNER’S Celebrated Patent Ball-Bearing
Racing Skates. Used by all the noted Fast Skaters
in the World. All records from One Mile to Six Days made oil this
igwcaj "f, Skate. For Sale only by us. Price per Pair, £6.
PAID*
JUCV' .13—1880
A-PR# 26-WBl
The * First * Grand * Elite * Carnival * of * the * Season
Will take place at this Rink
On ox aTbo*a.t EVEN IITO-, 21st
In the production of Carnivals we lead —others endeavour to imitate us.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
m
m
DIXSOPSONS
*
*
o
sg
O
X
SIR ROGER
50
a:
yr
H
DIXSONS
Excelsior hotel, charters
towers.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated comer of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For Constipation. Indigestion
Stomach & Liver Complaints
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
w
M KK
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE. —For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL.—For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYB.—An excellent Table Watmu
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Renowned ,
English Lavender Water
and other well-known Perfumes are.
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
ATKINSON’S
ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE,
Unrivalled for cleansing, beautifying
and preserving ihe Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J. & B. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark - “White R<»se”on“Go.den
cjv Lyre,” with Address in full. jA
"Willi ©-233. Ca-rgrill,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 —MARKET —STREET,
IM*TjEAK BROS, i RIGG, & t CO.,
IiiONMO»GEKB,g
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IRONMONGERS
5
2
<p
o
3
REG?
ST
C.
.0
SPECIALITIES :
uavis dewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Aibo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
<3AS COOKING STOVES j—LBONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft WALKER’S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fto., fto.
NEVER TBAVEU WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EYBEY HOUSE.
l
EFFECTUALLY DESTROY
ALLNOXIOUS INSECT
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES MOSQAJITOES
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME;QUITE
HARMLESS TO BI RDS DOG
FOW^OROTHER^
ANIMALS m&M*
A
9
il
C
l
l
FELTON-GRIMWADE^C < ?i
MELBOURNE j
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware o the
numerous im tations.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
64 COLLINS STREET EAST.
MMorlbed Capital -
Patd-ap and Accrued Capital
Deposits Received ..
Advances Made
total Income _ - -
Tear ending
Oct., 1886.
£180,425
61,630
93,681
123,248
200,106
Tear ending
Oct., 1886.
£350,000
120,000
261,500
247,840 ,
461,086
Tear ending
Got., 1887.
£431,126
206,685
391,356
307,828
797,990
Tear ending
Oct., 1888.
. £580,000
251,015
. 1,123,049
625.826
. 2,048,951
Deposits received at following Rates 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
cent.; 8 months, B per cent. Special Terms for longer peridds.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
IYERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
Mils BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
AXFLE muss for Borrowers. TEEHS LIBERAL,
I
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
£JAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment) of la. pe
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are la
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest*
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in Cash.
The holders of t ,e First Issue of these Shares received in October,
1885, £26 Is. if 6 ., towards which sum they had Contributed only
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Hon. JOHN M)i TO, N.F., J.P., _ .. Chairman.
WIIIIAIH DOH£ KX V . .. Acting-Secretary.
feiiifs
*r - /.-.ti:;!jj!l ! .'if!•: . V M MB||W
- „r ■ -'^ 7 ■ 'll'
■MMMK I - lIMTB^H«S!ai
wu^r.-«
mils
7;ri-r- ; ~vs || (I l( If . • .
■ ~;;. : r i m •• •;■H 'v- 1
iV* ■ -," -V -■■•
«a
THE
Federal coffee Palace
CORNER OF
2HZxrj.gr <35 Collin.© Streets, MelTooixme,
Containing 560 ROOMS, ia now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES off ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Tables
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL ■ GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Mmit, presided over by an experienced Chif, assisted by a civil and obliging staff. •
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMS.
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE TELEGRAMS AND PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
George Cohen - - - - - Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No. 482
SATURDAY, MAY 11, 1880.
Pries, 6d.
Panton De Beerthirst.
HjUrtyj '


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
° Australia fob the Australians.”
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO«,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 31 PitT'Strbkt, Sydney, New South Wales.
( TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum . £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed'to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin " will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
TTi^^ulle&rL
SATURDAY, MAY 11, 1889.
Tire leper’s Rise and Progress.
The Government cf Queensland has lately
resolved that the spread of leprosy In north-
eastern Australia demands the formation of
a leper settlement in Torres Straits, where
the living death can be hidden to some
extent from the public eye and the decaying
mortal can be at rest. New South Wales
has its leper settlement already, where a
dozen victims —black, white, and yellow—
are working out their miserable destiny;
and every now and then anew specimen is
caught and run In to add to the collection,
and there are a few paragraphs concerning
him In the papers, and then he and his fate
are alike forgotten. Victoria has also its
assortment of Infected pariahs, mostly caught
on deserted goldfields or found hidden In
Chinese dens ; the leper Is an established
feature in the Northern Territory, and his
disease Is spreading fast among the aboriginal
race _already fast decaying from the com-
bined Influences of rum and the white man’s
gun. New Caledonia musters, on a rough
estimate, some 4000 diseased outcasts, and
in Honolulu leprosy has become the centre
round which the policy of government re-
volves and all other social questions are
overshadowed by the great problem of the
leper’s extinction. Modern sentiment,
unfortunately, forbids the world to put a
pound of dynamite under the afflicted one
and have done with him. It keeps him alive
to be a useless horror to himself and
his surroundings ; It nurses him care-
fully knowing all the while that his
recovery Is hopeless; it watches him
fall to pieces and preaches patience and
Christian resignation to the last recognisable
fragment of him ; it helps him to spread his
ghastly malady by bringing him into con-
tact with expensive doctors and valuable
policemen and high-priced keepers and other
legal agencies, who are employed in finding
him and tunning him Into his pest-house and
retaining him there when he has been found
and run In ; and It furnishes him with all
necessary facilities for Infecting railway car-
riages and ambulances and steamboats and
other vehicles In which he Is conveyed to his
home In the lazar-houae, but the curt and
abbreviated form of dealing with the diffi-
culty by taking the leper out Into a waste
place and there blowing him Into space, or
by filling him up with acme subtle drug
which will despatch him painlessly to Nir-
vana, Is prohibited by the moral sentiment
of the age. There Ir nothing In the Scrip-
tural code at present'ln use strong enough to.
prevent a hundred thousand men being:
butchered any day merely because a hydro-
cephaloua potentate of no particular account
wishes to own some three-cornered swamp,
which is Included In the territories of another
broken-down Imperial hypochondriac, but-
the religion which allows nations* to waste,
themselves in endless war will not allow even-
one leper to be needlessly thrown away, andi
it has apparently been resolved that civilisar-
tlon owes it to the pariah to make bis death
as slow and his suffering as long drawn out
as possible. Therefore the idea of extin-
guishing leprosy by extinguishing the indi-
vidual leper will not be tried until the avll!
has assumed stupendous dimensions, andi
maudlin humanity has been overpowered by
unreasoning national panic.
* • •
Yet the same statute which provides foe
the summary removal of the convicted
murderer affords far better and more suffi-
cient grounds for the equally summary
shuffling off of the leper’s mortal coil.
The assassin, according to all the ac-
cepted theories of law, is executed, note
as a measure of vengeance—for vengeance
is not recognised in any civilised code—but
as a measure of public safety, and public
safety still more urgently demands the leper's
extinction for his physical li faction is* a.
certain, ascertainable and obvious danger*
while the moral Infection of the assassin*
whose crime was probably the result eft
momentary passion, Is dubious and un-
certain. The homicide Is sent out oft
the world before his time because he.
has developed tendencies which make bis*
continued existence a danger to his fellow-
creatures, and the leper, regarded as a danger
to society at large, is more ominous than any
single homicide upon record. Crime and.
disease are alike hereditary—the son of tha
hardened criminal is also a criminal, and the.
son of the leper Is most frequently a leper
But unfortunately British law ii a chan gelt s»
superstition always lagging five hundred
years behind Its era, and because the priestly
lawgivers tf the Middle Ages refused to
recognise heredity In crlma it persists In
regarding the homicide ss a being who has.
made himself what he is without any regard
to his surroundings and bla inherited in-
stincts, and treats him on the bads of ancient
Jewish legend rather than on that of modern
science. Therefore, In place of extinguish-
ing the incorrigible criminal and the Incur-
able leper on the ground that both are un-
endurable public misfortunes, and that
their existence threatens to taint the human
race with hereditary crime and hereditary
disease, it endeavours to arrive at an imbecile,
compromise, In which common sense and
logic are both left out. One misfortune is
strung up on the gallows—not In order to
prevent him perpetuating a family of crimi-
nals, for the Jaw takes no cognizance of the
only real danger Involved by his existence*
nor by way of vengeance, for vengeance Is
not recognised as one among the prominent
Christian virtues, but In order to combine,
In a shadowy sort of way, the advantages of
an abstract justice which is hopelessly beyond
human comprehension, and the beauties of a
ferocious code promulgated by a tribe of
wandering shepherds In the desert of Sinai;
while the other —vastly more dangerous to the
human race —fs cooped up In a peat-house
that his physical Infection may be kept alive
so long as his soul can be persuaded to linger
iu its offensive mortal tenement. The in-
curable leper and the incurable Idiot are
preserved because the doctrine of the sanctity
of human life forbids their extinction, and
me anwhile the human race tolls at the manu-
facture of dynamite guns and explosive
bullets ard Whitehead torpedoes ; and grows
enthusiastic over nltro-glycerlne, melanlte,
and other contrivances for blowing its able-
bodied sots to atoms, and the same law
which forbids the removal of a single leper
to bis eternal rest picks up the mangled
remains of nations from a thousand battle-
fields and thanks the Almighty that they
have been successfully cut off and scattered
into ruins for the honour of the British flag.
• • •
So far, however, our Australian leper is
only the forerunner of the pestilence which
may ensue. Hitherto the possibility of an
epidemic of leprosy has hardly occurred to
the people of Australia who have regarded
the disease as one which must necessarily
confine itself, In the future as iu the past, to
the subterranean dens where the Chinaman
loves to cultivate in the darkness the
cherished smells of his native land, and even
when, every now and then, it 1s announced
that one or more white men have fallen vic-
tims to this grotesquely hideous disease no
one dreams of a time when the leper may
stalk everywhere through the laud. The
appalling outlook at Honolulu has taught the
white man nothing—the victims were only
“ niggers” at the best, and until the colonists
of European descent begin to fall by scores
he will not believe that the warning was
meant for him. And yet in the far-back
pages of European history there are grue-
some tales of a period when France, Ger-
many, and England were three vast lazrr
houses, and when all Western Europe was
smitten with an awful corruption which its
despairing Inhabitants set down as the
visitation of an outraged Providence. The
Orusaders of old met the strange disease In
Palestine ; It hung round the thrones of the
French kings of Jerusalem, and when
Philip Augustus brought his infected army
back to Marseilles he carried with him a
curse which filled his land with deso-
lation. Within a few years some 1300
leper hospitals were established in
France and England alone ; the pic-
turesque knights who figure in martial
glory In the pages cf Scott were living
charnel-houses —deatbs-heads rotting away
inside their plates of mall; the medieval
minstrels about whose songs so much poetry
has been wasted, were bloated outcasts
dying In the waste places of the earth ; the
friar of orders gray was a mass of loathsome
corruption hidden in a cloister; even the
manarchs of old romance fell victims to the
disease, for Robert Bruce, the greatest hero
of Scottish history, was a leper In his old
age, and died in lingering misery in a lonely
castle beside the Clyde. In Norway, Russia,,
and Iceland leprosy never afterwards,
died out, and the medical science of the
present day Is no batter able to cope with it,
than were the Ignorant doctors—half phy-
sicians, half astrologers—of the era of
Philip Augustus, The medico of these
unenlightened days Isolated his patient,
and If he wera a man of deep research
he probably experimented on him by making
him swallow the pulverised remnants of a
toad which had been jumped upon on the
grave of an unbaptlsed infant by the light of
the new moon ; the medico of the present
day isolates his patient and leaves out the
squashed toad, and that bashed and mined
reptile virtually constitutes the only differ-
ence between them.
# * -
The land of Adam’s fabled Paradise is the
reputed birthplace of m'st of the destructive
epidemics which have i ffii died the Western
race, and round the legendary garden spot,
of Eden all the fatal diseases of this
earth seem to have their rendezvous.
Ever since the Europeans began to muddle
with the affairs of Asia and to jump the
claim of Shem they have acquired along with
their plunder a variety of loathsome maladies
which have ba filed the skill of their medical
colleges, and which apparently defy ex-
tinction. Leprosy, In particular, appears
to be one of the peculiar features of that
fatal continent on which the Tree of Life
was so inappropriately planted, and with the
steadily Increasing Intercourse of Asia with
the outside world its dangers threaten to
increase a hnndred-fold rather than to
diminish. British “ Interests’’—built upon
the earth-hunger which has led Britain to
steal half the plagne-spots and pestilential
swamps of the habitable globe—have tied
the mother-cm at ry to the regions where
leprosy and cholera and a hundred other deadly
maladies have their home, and Australia, as
part of the British empire, is forced Into
interc yurse, more or less friendly, with the
leper who exports his Infection to these
shores. And apart from the burden of
British treaties the infatuation of “ trade,”
born of the political system which, in New
South Wales at least, measures the prosperity
of a nation, not by the comfort or happlnees
of Its citizens, but by the quantity cf tainted
Asiatic rubbish and germ laden glmcracks
which are annually shot down on its wharves,
gives little hope that Australia will ever
learn to hold herself aloof from the land
of leprosy. Moreover, the Australian leper,
in hts present stage cf development, ex-
cites little public interest. His malady has
not yet developed Into an overwhelming
public danger, and though the fate of Aus-
tralia may yet be the same as that of
Honolulu, and the appalling visitation which
descended on France and England In the
middle ages may at any moment rush down
upon these shores, the somnolent colonist
waits the result with comparative indiffer-
ence. But when the calamity comes, as
some day it probably will, either science
mast find out some means by which this
hitherto hopeless disease can be cured, or
else the sentiment of Illogical humanity by
which the death-stricken victim is kept alive
long enough to scatter the Infection round),
him before he dies must give way to
the exigencies of public safety. When
the leper becomes a great national
problem, then If he la still Incur-
able he must go overboard. The Chris-
tian charity which does not hesitate to
send a thousand men to certain death if, by
their sacrifice, a half-lost battle can still be
won, must not hesitate over a holocaust of
useless lepers if, by their loss, an awful
disease can be stamped out. No doubt the
pious sentiment of the age will denounce the
mere suggestion of such a necessity as
appalling in its impiety, and will call upon
the nation to place its trust in Providence ;
but to this it can only be replied that Pro-
vidence itself gave up the problem nearly
3000 years ago. The divine revelation given
to the sons of Israel in the wilderness la full
of elaborate instructions concerning the
Isolation of the leper, but concerning his
cure not a single suggestion is offered. The
Scripture has abandoned the hopeless ques-
tion, and therefore reason and science must
scramble for themselves.
A Sham Congress.
The Devil must have howled himself hoarse with
triumphant derision ss he watched the pharisaio
and purposeless proceedings at the recent Church
Congress at Sydney. For he saw there assembled
professional religionists, representatives of Angli-
canism from each of the Australias, surrounded
by all the clerical pomp and circumstance of the
church to which they adhere, and supported by a
sleek company of pious laymen smug of visage
and perfect in attire, and as he looked upon this
mighty gathering he exulted in the fact that its
first and final purpose was—nothing. The world
groans under abuses —the Congress had no inten-
tion of abolishing these Poverty and oppression
in our community induce terrible crime and in-
volve horrible suffering—the Congress was not
convoked to work for the alleviation of these evils.
Divisions, violent strife, and discontent rend the
church community, but it was with no hope of re-
moving these things that Congress met. A part
of its purpose was that a star engagement might
be offered to followers of the Meek and Lowly
One who desire strictly to obey the prohibition
against hiding their light under a bushel. It was
a meeling for mutual admiration and for palter-
ing with manifest evils, but for nothing more.
Fearful lest any undesirable zeal might effect any
good purpose, the promoters with needless caution
provided that no amendment should be allowed
and no resolution permitted. The provision was
an unintentional sarcasm on the whole proceed-
ings. For the Congress met without any resolu-
tion to cure the diseases devastating the body
ecclesiastic, and dispersed without having effected
any amendment in any direction whatever. Asa
dozen old “ duchesses ” of Durand’s Alley might
meet to gossip about the scandals and crimes of
the neighbourhood, so these clerics met to orate
about wrongs which they did not seek to remedy
and to bewail in canting tones the existence of
evi’s which it was no part of their intention to
limit or to check. Well might the Devil laugh at
such a display of grandiose hypocrisy on the part,
of his alleged enemies in this world.
* * •
The pompous pretension of this clerical show
contrasts all the more glaringly with its utter re*
sultlessness, when it is noticed that almost every
one of the actors strutting upon this extra lime-
lighted ecclesiastical stage, admitted the need for
instant effort at reform everywhere. The prayer-
book, for instance, came in for a practically unani-
mous condemnation. It was affirmed —and that
perhaps the more straigbtly because no motion
was before the meeting, and, therefore, no one was
asked to show his grit by giving a vote —that the
Articles of Faith no longer represent either sec-
tion of Anglican belief; that the Athanasian
Creed Is an insult to any intelligence; that the
marriage service—including that “secondly”
which degrades matrimony to the level of licensed
prostitution—is obsolete in its indecency, and tihal
the service for the visitation of the sick contains
matter glaringly opposed to Anglican doctrine,
and that the Book of Common Prayer is in multi-
tudinous respects unsuited to modern worship.
Congregations using it pray for the Queen no less
than five times at every service ; whether this is
because her Gracious is a very bad lot, or because
the prayers are not of proper quality we know not,
but such reiteration on such a subject is of itself
almost enough to breed a revolution in a demo-
cratic community. It was further admitted that the
clergy are not so much respected as they might
be, that offertories don’t boom as they should, that
the present parcchial system doesn’t reach the
masses, that the Church does not attract able
young men to its service, and that sin abounds on
this continent to a terrific extent. These admis-
sions would seem to show that there is a wide
field for the most earnest and active operations ;
yet the Congress parted without initiating or for-
warding one single movement to assist a return to
better things. The clerical mummers in the sight
of audiences at a shilling a head wept over Jeru-
salem, but refused to stir a finger to avert the
course of evil.
• * *
To find the cause of this want of effort and
action it is necessary only to notice that although
much was admitted by the clerics, they dared not
touch upon the worst phase of the questiots
affecting the Church of England. The various
speakers shirked the real issues and avoided any
indication of the rad ! cal evil existent. What men-
tion, for instance, was made of the split in the
ranks of Anglicans ? Who dared to utter the sphd
truth that High Churchmen might go to Rome
and Low Churchmen to Wesley without either
party making any material revision of their faith .
Or what speaker ventured to point out that each
congregation is isolated from every other, and
subject to no central authority ? When a
congregation complain to their bishop that
their parson is a ruffian, the prelate can
give no better advice than “ Starve him cut.
If a parson and his flock disagree they have to
fight it out, they having no opportunity of appeal
to any authority which either will acknowledge*
No one ventured either to mention the fact that
congregations professedly gathered together to
worship the God of Love fall to fierce hate over
such things as the lighting of a candle or the
length of a parson's petticoat, usually called a
“cassock.” The wretched rows of these pious
people are always on the public ear. The Sydney
Cathedral reredos concerning which Judge Foster


The moat powerful lal oar organisation In
America now, is a society called The Federation of
Labour. It is holding demonstrations this month
in favour of an Eight Hours’ law, and proposes,
unless the employers agree to the recognition of eight
hours as the legal day’s work to call out 750,000
workmen,
and other prominent pietists raged so furiously,
the Maitland altercation, the Kempsey squabble,
the present row about the consecration of an
assistant bishop at Brisbane, the everlasting En-
more snarl, the Orange shindy—these are some of
the proofs that “Christian love among the
churches is the same as heathen hate.” Nor was
any adequate Congress reference made to the fact
that Churches can only be supported even on the
present scale by an increasing passing of the col-
lection-box, by extortion known as pew-rent, and
by bazaars with all the swindling and robbery in-
cident to these shows. Nor was there one word
said as to the necessity of an expurgated Bible, or
a change in the lectionary such as would supply
church lessons to which decent persons might
listen without shame. Finally there was no one
allowed to speak at that Congress who had suffi-
cient courage to allude to any of the clergy in
words thus paraphrased to meet the times : “Be-
ware of the parsons which love to go in long
clothing, and love salutations at Government
House gatherings, and the chief seats at Congress
and the leading places in ‘eassiety;’ which de-
vour widows’ houses (by going in for land and
share swindles), and for a pretence make long
prayers : these shall receive greater damnation.”
• • •
The present position of the clergy is precarious.
They don’t dare to assist or permit any movement
to alter or reform the Church In any one particular,
for if any beginning in this work were made, an
opening would be left for other and wide emenda-
tions of a kind calculated to hurl the priesthood
from its arrogated state. And on the other hand
the clergy and the Church are sinking so deep into
public contempt that it is necessary that some
hypocritical pretence of reformation should be
made. A Congress attains both these ends. It
deludes laymen into the belief that reform Is in-
tended, and at the same time it sufficiently pro-
vides against the ensuement of any practical good
whatever. It is a dot? ge which so far seems to have
done the work of the parsons and the Evil One to
#
It may be admitted without any reservation
whatever that a lot of the Anglican clergy are as
good ai it is possible for any men in their position
to be, but that doesn’t avoid the fact that the
Anglican Church requires a reform approximating
revolution. In it we see an institution which since
1600 has stolidly refused to advance one step
in keeping with the age. Almost every other
organisation of British origin has since then be-
come imbued with an uncompromising Democratic
spirit; this Church has retained the Bishop as an
absolute monarch in theory, a mere figure-head in
fact. The power of government has passed from
him, but the people have not been permitted to
assume it. During the last 300 years obscenity
has been banished from current literature and the
drama, but is still carefully retained in Anglican
services. And the obscure and sometimes absurd
doctrines, articles, and rubrics of the sixteenth
and seventeenth centuries ixave been so sci upulously
preserved that now religion is covered by a mask
of formulae which excite contempt, derision, and
scepticism. And all these things have had their
influence upon the clergy. Before ordination a
clergyman has to swear his belief in articles which
wound and sear his conscience ; and thereafter his
life must be at the least tinged with pretence, for
he sees and knows the hollowness of that which
he professes to regard as sound. Worship then
degenerates into idolatry, assumed or real, of the
forms of worship, and the end is forgotten in the
continual cantamplation of the means,
These matters are of deep import, not to Anglicans
alone, but to the whole community. For the
churches assume a monopoly of religion. _ They
take upon themselves a public trust, and it is of
public concern whether the duties devolving
thereunder are properly discharged. The Anglican
Church, like any other religious body, must either
make the best use of its opportunities for good, or
else be counted as an evil in itself, for it prevents
the efforts of a mere earnest body of workers from
taking up the work now left undone. If there
were no churches at all, true religion would sur-
vive. Religion may be necessary to the Churches,
but the converse proposition _ will _ not hold.
Hypocrites and humbugs professing piety are as
stumbling blocks to truth* seekers; manifestly
useless, and apparently insincere attempts at re-
form block the way against more efficient under-
takings ; and that is why we adhere to the state-
ment that vice personified has reason to triumph
over that emptiest of hollow shows, that sorriest
and flattest cf farces—the Anglican Church Con-
gress of Australasia.
"Look at Hingland.”
The Foreign*trade politicians of are
forced at last to admit with unspeakable bitter-
ness that the Protectionist party has ceased to be
a shadow, and is rapidly growing into a great
political tores in the United Kingdom. The time
is evidently approaching when the hitherto
triumphant followers of Cobden and Bbight will
have to make a desperate fight for the mainten-
ance of those doctrines by which the Quaker
philanthropist piled up his gigantic fortune
while the toilworn operatives who had served
his class starved in their crumbling hovels
outside the factory gates. To the present
generation of Englishmen the meaning of Protec-
tion is a mystery : they have grown a
system which takes the blessedness of Freetrade
for granted, just as tboir remote ancestors took it
for granted that the earth was necessarily flat; but
the urspeakable misery of the great mass of the
population makes it every day more evident that
some great change must be made or revolution
will ensue. Every year sees the issue of new
statistics concerning the incress ng wealth of
Ehgland, but every year sees nine-tenths of tbe
population growing more gaunt and ragged and
hungry—every year sees wages falling, and the
hours of labour lengthening, and the record of
deaths from hunger and cold and misery grow-
ing more imposing, and amid the countless woes
of the workers cf the community thepileofthe land-
lord and the manufacturer keeps on increasing and
British statisticians look at their bank-accounts
and gabble of the glorious prosperity of their
native land. Freetrade, they still maintain, is a
system which conserves the interests of the poor;
Protection, a scheme of tyranny and mental dark-
ness constructed in the interests of manufacturing
monopolists; yet the British manufacturer _ is
crowding the House of Peers and is buying
up the earth, and the monopoly of land and
the monopoly of wealth go band in _ hand,
while the British toiler—well, his case is best
shown in the appalling revelations made before
the Royal Commission which is now taking evi-
dence in England concerning the best means of
averting the ruin of the British nation.
* * •
Mr. Henry George was present on Tuesday at the sit-
ting of Lord Dunravbns Committee of the House of
Lords, and heard the evidence. In that given by Mr. W.
Price, secretary of the Spike Nail Makers’ Association,
who had worked in the trade over 50 years, it was shown
that the logger or middleman paid Sd. per bundle tor
spike nails, while the first master paid lljd., the differ-
enoe being equal to 7d. par owt. Besides this the logger
charged too muoh for carriage, made false weight, and in
Halesowen three of the loggers kept truckers’ shops, and
if the workers did not deal there they would net be long
employed. The loggers a 1 so charged for keeping tools
in repair, and did not repair them, so that the
women had to have them repaired elsewhere and
pay lof them. They were afraid to complain, lest
they should not get work. Spikenail making was far
too heavy work for women and young persons and should
he carried on wholly in factories. Women frequently had
miscarriages, and one died from the effects of the work.
They could be employed in lighter work, but their em-
ployment in making spikenails was a disgrace to civilisa-
tion. In hot weather they wore very scant clothing.
Children began to work at 12 years of age, and he believed
the Education Act was evaded. He began to work at
nine years of age. Sarah Hackktt, a young married
woman, stated that she and her husband, working from
7 in the morning to 9 at night making spikenails, could
earn from 18s. to 203. per week, but out of this they had
to pay 2s. for fuel, about 4s. per week for carriage. 2s. Gd.
house rent, and Gd. for schooling two children ; and they
could not always get work all the year round Deductions
amounting sometimes to 9d. per week were made for
waste.”
“ Look at Hingland ” is the ceaseless cry of the
ungrammatical Australian Foreign-trader, and
when we look at England this is what we see.
Freetrade and Free Competition have spread their
blessings over the land of freedom for a whole
generation, and for three-fourths of the population
England is an earthly hell of hopeless toil and
lifelong misery.
• • •
“ Men, women, and children,” said another
witness, “ worked from 12 : to i 4 hours a day,
except on Mondays and Saturdays, when the
hours were shorter, and earned—-the women and
children from 4s to Gs. a week ; the men from 10j.
to 14s. He had known chains sold by saddlers in
London for 7s. each which were made in the iron
districts for three-halfpenc?.” Yet the earth is
filled with the yelp of the Freetrade statistician
who points out that Freetrade means high wages
and cheap commodities, while under Protection
wages fall and the price of commodities is kept
up to an unnatural elevation. Two shillings per
day of 12 or 14 hours' for the able-bodied male
operative, half or less than half that amount for
females and children, and 560© per cent, profit for
the dealer, is the Freetrade limit in dear old
England, and still the high-priced lee’urer goes
round preaching that there is a lower depth even
than this, and the Sunday-school drivel about the
joys of being a happy English child is not yet
dead. And truly there is a lower depth, but it is
in Freetrade England alone that it can be found :
The witness exhibited some gun locks which were made
at Darlaston, the operatives being paid'ftd. per complete
look, which enabled them to earn sa. a week neb.
The time has actually arrived in England when
the workman who makes 14s, a week may be
looked up to as a bloated capitalist among his
fellows, and may assume lofty airs on account of
his wealth and social importance. Yet even the
harassed wretch who makes 53. a week by cease-
less toil is often compelled by the middlemen to
take out his miserable wage in food supplied at an
exorbitant price from the middleman’s shop, and
if he objects to this arrangement he has tto go, and
give way to another man at 53. a weeh<who has
less insular pride about him and doesn’t place so
much store on his lofty station as a freeborn Eng-
lishman and a son of that Britannia who rales the
waves. Yet the special mission of Freetrade and
Free Competition is to make wages high aadifood
cheap, and the Foreign-trade lecturer still desires
us to “ Look at Hingland 1" We are looking
•
In manufactures and agriculture alike thee poor
have gone to the wall. Since Freetrade was forced,
on Ireland that country has loot over 40 per sent,
cf its population; nearly half the cultivated land!
has turned into wilderness, and manufactures
have almost completely vanished away. Bven4Heu
desolation of Palestine by the arms of Roma® s*,
Saracens, Turks and other barbarous invaders didi
rot work such utter ruin as peace and landlordism,
and Cobdenism have dona in the Green Is’e—bed
ca'led in mockery of its utter desolation. In Eirg--
land during the last ten years a million aocesa
of cultivated land have been abandoned, andl
in some districts half a county has been almast*
entirely deserted. Among the 38 0(30,000 scwlss
who make up the estimated population of the?
United Kingdom something like 7,000 000 ana
destitute, and 14.000,000 earn less than 10s. Gdl-as
week by ceaseless, hopeless toil. The
wage in the poorest parts of Ireland is already/
down to Gi. a day, and in England it is steadilyy
approaching that limit- Yet the aggregate wealth 1
of the country is not diminishing—in other words
a million men grow every day richer and richer-'
while 37 millions get poorer and fee starvations
coming steadily nearer. And while national 1
degradation is perpetually finding a further depth},
and national wretchedness increases until revolur
tlon is in the air, the modern economist keeps' om
pointing out that P/otection tends to slavery'
and the degradation of the masses, while Free-
trade is the gospel of light, and the means by
which the toiler is to find his salvation ; and the<
parrot cry of Pulsfoed and Wise and Parked,
and the other crooking ravens of monoply, is as
before —"Look at Hingland.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Bridge and a Governor.
Queensland did not show up very well at the
opening of the Hawkesbury Bridge last week. A
miserable Postmaster-General was the only repre-
sentative of the Ministry of that colony present,
and the rank-and-file of its Parliament were con-
spicuously absent. Seeing that courteous invita-
tions, free travelling, a free repast, and abundant
liquor were provided, it is manifest that some
brilliant and magnificent counter attractions must
have interfered with the National tendencies
of Queensland’s present batch of public men. Toe
telegraph declared that there was a counter-
attraction both brilliant and significant. General
Sir Hbnbt Nobman, the new Governor, arrived
in Brisbane on the day fixed for the opening of
the bridge. There is less than nothing, we admit,
in a public guzzle as a means of celebrating a
national event. Picnicking Governments have
been censured in the past, and it is certain that a
time will come when congratulations over a public
event will be given and received without turning
the throats of an cfficial mob, with its ravenous
parasites, into canals of whisky and soda.
If Queenslanders had stayed at home as
a protest against inane junketing they would
have merited a niche a little higher in the
temple of decency than their neighbours ; but the
evidence disclosed by wire showed on the day of
the celebration that, low as a public guzzle is,
there is something lower, and that Queensland
patriots were up to their eyes in it. There was, at
all events, an Australian sentiment in the celebra-
tion of the opening of the Hawkesbury Bridge.
It recognised the material binding together of the
four great colonies of the continent. It was the
realisation in a material sense of the dream of
Federation. On the other hand, the arrival df
Governor Norman realised no Australian dream,
touched on none, inspired none, but with all the
weight acd influence of its significance chilled,
froze; hilled the sentiments and sympathies which
are the germs of Australian ambition. The act of
Queensland’s public men meant not alone that
they were unnecessarily obsequious to the nominee
of a non-Australian power, but that to fill up the
measure of obsequiousness to the brim they were
prepared to celebrate the occasion of their own
abasement in preference to celebrating that of
Australia’s ' unification. The incident throws
Queensland back Some distance in the national
march. ' She gained the vanguard by a coup a
short time ago. l 1 Have her public men cowed at
the sight of the enemy? If they have’not, they
have blundered; if they have, Queensland should
send them to the rear.
*
Farkcs On His Own fnnuensily.
In Sydney one day last week, in the presence of a
presumably sane audience, an inflated old tetan
named Parkes stood up to inform New South
Wales at large that for all it possessed it was in-
debted to him. “No one has done more for your
liberties than hi ’ave; in fact, you howe your
liberties to me,” howled the poor, mediocre old
dotard—the greatest failure that ever sat like a
long-haired incubus on the chest of a young
nation ; and when some six members df his audi-
ence howled with irrepressible mirth at this tre-
mendous effort of arrogance and stupidity, the
venerable fish-fag proceeded to blast them as
“half-a-dozen blackguards” for their failure to
appreeiate his overgrown Bumbleism. And now
what we want to know is this : How did the earth
get on for the few million years before PaWeh
was bora, and what will keep it from collapsing
when he dies ? For, as far as we can ascertain
from his own speeches, Parke* turns the bundle
that keeps this globe whirling round;; he lights Up
the sun by day and shoves the stars along by
night; he hangs on to the comets and'keeps them
straight, and no earthquake or convulsion of
nature can get through properly unless Parkes is
on deck. When there is rain it is because Parkes
is at the tap, and when there isn’t rain it is be-
cause Pakkes has turned it tiff. He was round
here in the Pliocene period and hoisted Aus-
tralia up from under the sea; also he de-
signed the kangaroo and made the hind legs
of that animal longer than the frmt ones. He
constructed Sydney harbour, and the Blue Moun-
tains, and the Cumberland disease, and the smells
of the Yarra, and the Mcnri' Rennie larrikins,
and he also made the devil and screwed on his
tail. He designed the Ballarat gold deposits and
built Judge Wsndeyer and Mary Jane Htcks,
and 1 he thoughtfully allows the world to revolve
round him at a ea’ary of £2OOO odd a year. He has
introduced more siale Billingsgate into Australia
■than any other man living and passed it cff as his
own, and amid all these multifarious occupations
he hasn’t had time to learn how to keep a
civil tongue in his head. And yet somehow
outside Australia the world hardly knows whether
Parses is a politician or a dustman, and
in Australia itself ha has the misfortune to be
celebrated -chiefly as a blatant speculator
who has gone broke to other people’s loss,
and his name is remembered mainly as
that of the last old snag that propped up the
cause of sectarian education, as tha man who out-
raged human liberty by helping to pass the Treason
Felony Act under which men were rendered liable
>to a long term of imprisonment if they refused to
cheer for their “ beloved ” Queen, and generally
as the most hopeless muddler who ever allowed a
band of professional mendicants to pass the hat
round on his behalf and made his country a laugh-
ing-stock by wanting to thank a non-existent
.army in a £300,000 dead-house.
*
The Old Footprint Superstition
The acquittal of Isaac Sawyer, who lately rose
to sudden notoriety in connection with the murder
of Hans Olund at Young (New South Wales),
marks anew departure in the administration of
justice in that colony. The evidence against
Sawyer was stronger by far than that against
many a man who has been summarily hanged
under the grand old cede of Botany Bay, and was
ten times more direct and conclusive than the
testimony against the prisoner now lying under
sentence of death at Armidaie : and the decision
of the jury may possibly have been based not so
much on Sawyer’s defence as on the fact that he
was allowed no reasonable chance to defend him-
self. Toe Crown engaged for the prosecution—
that is to say, for the purpose of getting Sawyer
hanged—that eminent and experienced Q O , Mr.
Frank Rogers, with a -skilful barrister to assist
him; while for the defence of the penniless prisoner
a young and comparatively inexperienced lawyer
—a new arrival in Australia, we hear —was
assigned in the usual ramshackle way. On the
one side the police were scouring the country for
evidence to obtain a conviction; on the other
there was no one at all to hunt up testimony for
the defence A score of men were busy finding
boot-tracks and other circumstantial facts on
which to base the case for the gallows, while the
prisoner was under lock and key and had no one
acting in his interests to see that the boot-
tracks and the other facts were not made
to order. The case, from first to last, con-
sisted entirely of evidence for the prosecution.
The footprints found in the vicinity of the corpse
corresponded -as footprints generally and the
boots of the accused, for among the half-million
or so of ponderous, hobnailed, ready-made
boots which are sold annually in New South
Wales there are probably not more than half-a-
dozen varieties of soles in ordinary use, and for
every large-sized footprint in the colony it is easy
to find at least 50,000 corresponding boots. Con-
sequently the boot-marks a T most Invariably agree
with the boots oa the prisoner’s feet —and even if
they don’t there is no one there except the
agents for the prosecution to assert the con-
trary ; and consequently men are pretty often
hanged on the evidence of footprints which
would agree equally well with the walking
extremities of half the male adult Australian
race including the police, themselves. The jury.
however, before whpm the case was first tried, dis*
agreed Over the glaringly thin and idiotic theory
which has " finished ” so many men whose guilt
is a matter of doubt, and at Sawyer's second
trial a Polish watchmaker, who appeared from bis
own statements to be a wanderer in the bush with
no particular residence, dropped in quite pro-
miscuously to testify to the fact (a fact not men-
tioned at the first hearing) that Sawyer's watch
might possibly be the same as one which formerly
belonged to the murdered man. Who the Pole
was, or where he dropped from, or why he didn’t
drbp in before, or who induced him to drop,
were seemingly not inquired into. Another man
was called to identify a hammer which he bad
lost a? one that was found a considerable distance
from the corpse, but he didn’t appear to connect
the hammer with the accused in any way. More-
over, he declined to identify the hammer at all,
and the dropped-in Pole also declined to positively
identify the watch; in fact, neither of them really
identified anything, and as they could offer no
positive evidence of any kind they had no right to
appear in the case in any shape or form whatever
unless they were brought forward that their pre-
sence and their hazy conjectures might prejudice
the minds of the jqry. The presiding Judge,
however, seems to have been positive about the
prisoner’s guilt, for, according to the report of a
Sydney evening paper—the only one which pub-
lished at any length what purports to be his
Honor’s summing-up—be piled up conjectures to
fill in where evidence failed ; —
Iji may be that after committing the deed his conscience
would not allow,him to sleep in such close proximity to
the scene of the murder.
It may be, certainly. Conjecture is boundless.
On the other hand it may have been a thousand
other things which caused Sawiee to move hn
camp, and nnleis, indeed, Mr. Windeyer ex-
pected him to remain in one spot till the day of
Judgment we don’t see why he shouldn’t have
moved. Again
the question for them (the jury) to consider was who
was the murderer, and if they found anything inooneir-
tent with the prisoner’s guilt they must acquit him. But
where was the .inconsistency ? He had paid every atten-
tion to the arguments advanced by the learned counsel
for the defence, but it was for them to decide in the
matter.
The bootmarks might have been those of police-
men, or of any casual swagsman, and even if
they were the prisoner’s tracks they were not
proof — they were only bootmarks after all.
The mysterious Pole refused to commit himself,
and therefore his evidence had no more to do
with the case than the transit of Jupiter; the
owner of the hammer was further from committing
himself even than the Pole, and if he bad identi-
fied the weapon there was no definite connection
between it and the prisoner, and no connection
even then between the prisoner and the murder,
or between the hammer and the murder. On one
side there was the whole police force and two
expert counsel—one o! them the able»t the Govern-
ment could procure; c n the other, an inexperienced
assigned counsel. Jedge Windeyer considered it
his duty to practically in'orm the jury that the
accused was guilty—and the jury decided that the
man was not guilty. Now what does this mean ?
Can the jury have been so human as to sympa-
thise with the accused cn the ground that the
facilities offered by the Crown for his defence were
by no means proportionate to the trouble and
expense taken to secure his conviction ? Did the
jury level headedly, and on the pure merits of the
case, disagree with the judge’s dictum as to the
strength of the evidence against the prisoner?
Let the public solve this riddle for themselves,
+
The Western Herald (Bourke, N.S.W.) strikes
a solid truth with regard to Land Nationali-
sation : —
For the land-owciog class special protection is neces-
sary. For them more than for others exist the armies
navies and police forces cf the world. Landless men
have no stake in the country, they can migrate ; the lane's
less Briton, G t rman or Italian may as well emigrate to the
United States, Australia or South America as stay at
home. Better, far better, to live in one cf the new worlds
than stop to be shot at in the old on account of some
wretched Bulgarian, Romanian, Servian, or Egyptian
intrigues. Landless men have nothing worth fighting
for. Why, then, should they fight ? Let the landlords
do all their own fighting and we should soon find out, if
that job was severely set apart tor them to do, that the
warlike spirit would evanish from European politics.
Fight for their “ native land.” Landless men have no
native land 1 Only the roads are for them; and m the
roads they are liable to be ordered to move on. They
can't even sleep on the roadside in towns ; landless men
have no rights—but to “move on.” As a comparatively
small combination of landlords can evict the peasantry of
Ireland, the crofters of the Isles,,and the Highlanders (f
Butherlandshire, so might'a larger combination cf land-
lords order all landless men to leave this globe in toto,
and the landless ones might be sent in detachments ski-
wards in balloons unprovided with parachutes. The
landowner haying special legislation and special protec-
tion, and having special State expenditure, incurred solely
bn aoqount qf his land, should be made pay for it all. TV e
land, from which he derives so many privileges, pajs
nothiog, while the laws, and the machinery to enforce
these laws, passed and put in force for the pr Jteotion c f
that land, have cost the State Is this right ? Free-
hold land then should be taxed. Taxed at its unimproved
capital value.
Ther 1 ) is a lot of solid philosophy in this theory,
but the foolishness of the New South Wales Land
Nationalisers still blocks the way. They give
their solid vole for the party which includes all
the great landholders of the colony, and Burks
and Buedekin avail themselves of the suppoit
thus accorded them, and smile. They are not
going to tax themselves—so long as they are able
to tax somebody else instead, and if war comes
they are not going to fight for the defence of their
property so long as they can find some poor beggar
who hasn't any property, and shed his blood in
place of their own. There is a srood deal of
average human nature about the Hreetrade poli-
tician.
*
Two or three new men in tbe New South Wtlea
Legislative Assembly are on the alert to sitnpli y
the phraseology of future Acts of Parliameno.
One has tackled the present Land Bill with the
result that he thinks he will be able to show how
some of the clauses may be condensed 50 or GO per
cent. It is to be hoped that he will succeed. But
in the meantime it may be observed that it is not
condensation that is the virtue most desiderated
in the composition of an Act of Parliament.
Lucidity is of far weightier importance. It ia
quite possible to condense a clause 90 per cent,
and leave It still a reproach to legislative intelli-
gence. Unless, then, the condentajiion secured
secures also greater lucidity the game between the
reformers and the old hands will only be one of
words. What is really wanted ia clearness of
meaning, and if this clearness could be imparted
by expanding clauses 50 or GO per cent, the ex-
panding reformer would merit a hearty welcome.


High Abt Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
& 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Oarlngton
!' By Appointment.”
An English paper, speaking of the possi-
bility of the Marquis of Lome being the next
Governor of Victoria, remarks Ths gossips of
Melbourne are already anticipating the humilia-
tion of New South Wales should the Princess
Louise preside over the society of Victoria’s
capital.” Bah!
Ben feanklin feinting office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLAROT,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Account Book Manufacturer, &c., &o.
Maclardy’s £5 Box of Stationery a speciality.
Send for List of Contents.
Note Address— -
319 GEOEGB STEEET SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Oardl
and Fancy Goods. Inspection invited,
[?]
846 Maoquarle-street North, Sydney, May 8, 1889.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
I went to the Easter Pantomime at Sydney Royal the
other evening and am still dazzled. Goodness ! what a
glittering riot it is 1 The dresses are so pretty—the
ballerinas’ frocks proving especially welcome alter the old
effete layers of limp muslin to which we have hitherto
been resigned. The “divided skirt” introduced by the
Gaiety Company is largely adopted, and as a consequence
the frooklets act like poems when the girls are kicking
flies off one another’s noses. In the second act Fanny
Liddiard scores one when she sings “ Forest Fairy ” in
white veiling with an Empire bodioe and classical drap-
ings edged with gold, a huge white feather fan and her
hair d la Grecque (Fred calls the style a la teapot, by the
bye) completing a captivating “twilight.” But Fanny
spoils her first get-up by carrying that inharmonious
blaok feather fan. There was hardly any dressing in
front. One society woman wore blaok (everybody wears
blaok now, and the oirole on bong tong nights looks as if
it were in mourning for its mother in-law) lightened by
pink roses on the corsage and hair. Another dress was of
blaok velvet with Empire sash of deep red, and red flowers
on the bodioe. A female of the horsehair and mahogany
type wore a red floral silk and a yellow satin opera cloak
edged with brown fur, and didn’t know that she re-
sembled a bar of soap on fire in a pound of coffee ; and
everybody else appeared to have come out in whatever
came first.
Apropos of the pantomime, that frisky little Toltie in
tights who smokes a cigarette in the last act really ought
to blow the smoke down her nose since that’s the proper
caper. And, I almost fcrgot to tell you, that Fanny Lid-
diard’s song, “ What’s to become of us Daughters ! ” with
its doleful chorus, much offends the girls—with one verse
in particular they are very vexed:—
If Fanny gives girls quite away
And sits upon romance,
Showing that they as spinsters stay
Because they have no chance,
Don’t fret—or you may lose a spouse 1
If men look round and see
A frigid crowd with scowling brows
Glaring from the d.o.
They 11 whisper to their fellow-men,
“ Fancy that scowl at 3 a.m. 1”
Quite a crowd swarmed in to “ Johnny ”, Solomon’s
matinee in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital on 3rd inst at the
cosy Criterion Theatre. All the seats bad been taken ages
ahead. The programme was a thing tf joy with a large
J, and was a wild mixture of “ Private Secretary,” songs,
recitations, skipping-ropes, niggers, beer, &0., &o Miss
Edith Sinbad Blande made a hit as Louita in the Dead
Shotshe wore a hold-your-breith-gown of yellow silk
with hanging sleeves and back shoulder draperies of
crushed strawberry silk cut in the Empire style. And the
dress circle also bad 'em all on. Mrs. Daniel O’Connor
wore maize with re lavements of navy-blue velvet; Miss
Carroll, a well-out French grey gown ornate with silver
passementerie. Mrs. (Dr ) Bowker was in the manager’s
box wearing a dark-green dress with a white silk waist-
coat and a toque hat en suite. Miss Lillian Gilmore
wore cream with a dark-blue velvet bonnet fastened with
short strings. Brenda Gibson was with her in a white frock
and “ cheeky ” looking red Gainsborough hat. A hand-
some get up was of Volga green cloth, en Directoire, over
a salmon-pink jupe, vest, cuffs and collar of the pink
green velvet toque with dark-green ribbons and salmon
wings. One very Pickwickian pair came—the gentleman
In full evening dress and the lady deoollette in pale-blue
silk covered with lace, long blue gloves, a large blue fan
and two rows of pearls round her bare neck completing
the downfall. Also one airy soul in a white frock had her
boots under her seat and put them on when she departed
in the most public and engaging manner. We are a con-
tiding people.
A daily paper announces that “ Mrs. Fairfax regrets
she will be unable to receive her friends to day, or on
Tuesday, 7tb, at Admiralty House.” It’s becoming an
epidemic amongst them, isn’t it ? They all do it—all
except Lady Carington, who is ever at the stake—l mean
“ at home ” on her day. When it reflects on this fact
perhaps Potts Point might considerately keep away from
one “reception” and give the limp vice-regal extremity a
rest for once.
Sydney agony advt.:—
pATHEDRAL.—WiII the lady with dark hair, cut
short, and who was accompanied by a lady friend
with auburn hair, and who stood by an elderly gentle-
man against one of the pillars at the northern end of
building during the evening tervioe on Good Friday,
kindly send her address to Probity, Post-office,
Burwood.
“Elderly gentleman” is sublime. A patriarch with
mashing proclivities of that order would be a small for-
tune to any leg-show. What a pillar of pantomime he
must be 1 And here is another
M— You must not call to see me in the mornings.
• Try and send me 50 this morning. You have
them all back in week.
Quite so, duokey—
[Don’t come in the morning, dear, I’ve got burst slip-
pers on.
And with my bang in papers haggle on the step with
“ John.”
Fried onions were for breakfast, and they still pervade
the hall,
So if you love your Popsie Wapps don’t make a morning
call 1
And yet another (from the E. News) :
-y OUNG Widow Lady in money difficulties wants a
J- loan of £l5 of private gentleman of means. Mrs.
, G.P.O.
Uoni soil que mal y pense I
“ Ladies’ Clubs " was the subject disoussed in the S. M,
Herald gush-column recently, and their advocate
“ Vespa,” after pointing out that they would do away
with heaps of calls, “ diminish gossip" (yes! really!).
and “ widen women’s sphere," remarks in conclusion J—
“ Looking at it every way, one oan see what an immense
advantage it would be to a man for his wife to be member
of a club. From her friends there she could obtain hints
on domestic economy, and the management of children,
also on the treatment of husbands by wives older and
more experienced than herself. She will hear of new
recipes in ocoking, of the newest novels, of treasures of
servants, and other subjacts too numerous to mention."
Quite apparent advantages, aren't they 1 The wife who is
“ more experienced than herself" will show her a whole
lot of things. What is a mother-in-law but a “ wife more
experienced than herself ? ” Mr. Manahan, who shot his
wife and his child last week, didn’t seem to like his
mother-in-law.
The first meeting of the season of the Intercolonia
Lawn-tennis Association eventuated at Moore Patk, Syd-
ney, on the 4th instant, when play commenced at 11 a.m.
Tennis being about as dangerous a performance as falling
off a log, the intrepidity of the thing doubtless accounts
for the moderate throng that assembled in the afternoon
to watch results. The weather being a scorcher, two or
three white frocks were sported, the prettiest being of
Liberty silk with apple-green Empire sash and full vest.
A black striped velvet redingote lined with groan silk,
vest of green, and black toque hat ornate with black and
green bows was distinctly fashionable, and a serpent-green
cloth, en Directoire over a jupe of deeper green moire,
vest to match and turban hat trimmed high with dark
green ribbons and black wings, was well worn by a society
woman. Also the 15 stun lady came in a crimson plush
dolman over an apple-green skirt, high brown bonnet
trimmed with gold lace.
The first autumn meeting at Rosehill racecourse even-
tuated on Ith inst. when the weather was too fiery for
many tabbies to venture cut to the dear little rendezvous;
those who went preferred to gasp in the shade of the
grand stand instead of flaunting their frocks on the lawn.
A brown cloth redingote lined with old gold, and a Gains-
borough bat trimmed with tan feathers and brown velvet
was the showiest get-up visible, and a thin fair youth with
bow legs was an object cf joy all day in a dark green
velvet coat, a yellow ’sauthemum in his button-hole, tin
shoes, and an eyeglass. The ladies’ tea-room wss as cool
ai an ice chest, and G. B. Rowley, the übiquitous secre-
tary, took us all under his wing as usual.
A Sydney saasiety soribess, describing the dresses at a
“ social,” was made by the compositor to remark that
“ Miss Blank wore a gold and pink striped shirt." I am
Still blushing.
A Sydney J.P.’s wife talking about “writing letters " to
some callers the other day, remarked, " My daughter is a
first-rate co-respondent,” She couldn’t think why every-
body smiled at once.
Miss Amy Hogg is to be married about October to Hon.
Roger North, a real live lord's son, whom she met in
India.
The N.S.W. Railway and Tramway Service Association
hold a “ Grand Social Reunion ” on the 20th inst. at the
Exhibition Building, Prince Alfred Park.
A sentimentalist, signing itself “ Amo,” enthusing over
the servant gal question in a daily paper weeps:—‘“How
many flowers are there in our gardens ! how many hooks
and pictures in our homes ! and yet we never think of
letting our servants share their pleasures and humanising
influence, even on Sundays, the leisure day in the week."
How truly thoughtful? But I should so like to see
“ Amo's ” visage if she came on Bridget in the library
some Sunday with Zola’s latest in her fist and a hot-house
flower in her hair, wouldn’t you ? Or fancy the glare that
would focus Maria if that hapless creature were unearthed
in the drawing-room gazing at some humanizing works of
art! “Amo’s” philanthropy looks prettiest on paper.
An imposing throng, thirsting to once more grasp the
tired gubernatorial hand, attended the first reception of
the season at Government House, Sydney, on 3rd inst.
Lady Carington, w ho is looking well after her respite at
Moss Vale, wore a handsome gown of black lace and
moire, relieved with cream, black lace bonnet ornate with
cream and bla'k ribbon bows. A well-known society
woman wore black cashmere, the bedioe and epaulettes
embroidered in silver braid,'vest of white me ire, hat en
suite. A handsome daughter of Judah was rather “pro-
fessional’’-looking in a green Directoire coat with pale-
pink silk front and huge green velvet hat weighted down
with feathers. A tasteful get-up was of grey cloth
trimmed with cascades of grey - green ribbon shot
with red - gi e ’, bonnet en suite. A picturesque
ensemble consisted of a dark-blue silk en directoire (every
gown is made “ en directoire” now) over a striped blue
and white silk jupe, large dark-blue straw hat trimmed
with cream feathers and dark-blue velvet. And a French-
grey cashmere trimmed with velvet the exact tint, grey
toque hat trimmed with ribbon and a white bird, was a
simple and effective toilette. The butter-tub female was
there, too, in dark-red trimmed with bands of black
moire ; and one lady, evidently from Mud Flat, wore a
trained gown of bright blue silk, a high brown hat, white
silk gloves, and a crimson sunshade ! The tea-rocm was
rushed as if the company hadn't seen food for a week, and
one lady distinguished herself by breaking her saucer.
Pannikins are now expected to be in vogue in the vice
regal tea-room on mob days.
On the Ist inst., Governor Carington braved the perils
of a trip by rail and opened the Hawkesbuty Bridge in
the eye of an immense mixed crowd. On 4‘h inst., H.E.
again acted as opener, a new eohcol on the North Shore
being inaugurated by him. On the evening of 2nd inst.,
Lord and Lady Carington gave a large dinner-party at
Government House, when over 30 guests were bidden to
grace the vice-regal mahogany, amongst them being Mr.
Donald Wallace. On the afternoon of 2nd, H.E. and
Lady Carington paid a flying visit to the Church Congress.
Bishop Barry goes 'Ome in the Orient which left Sydney
on 4th inst.; his lordship joins the chip at Melbourne.
An appreoiai ive admirer of a distinguished well known
musician astonished the natives on Sunday night at Sydney
Criterion, by shouting, after the pianist alluded to had
played one of his own compositions, in a stentorian voice.
“Magnificent Mens. Kowalski,” pronouncing the name
and prefix as written above. Miss Frances Saville at this
performance, wore, as she always does, a lovely gown—
cream and ruby satin were the constituents of this par-
ticular triumph of taste. Miss Lillian Tree's charming
voice and singing and Madame Lablaohe’s fan of white
feathers were the subjects of universal admiration.
The enlightened Sydney public invariably patronise
most generously all entertainments where admission is
free. Herr Kretsohman’s excellent concert on Saturday
afternoon was crowded. A very outspoken critic (an
elderly lady) among the audience gave it as her opinion
that the young lady performers on two pianos were
“fighting” those instruments, and certainly they
made a tremendous noise and appeared to work very
hard. The serenade for strings, by Worst, was charm-
ingly given, the solos for violin and ’cello remarkably
so. A noticeable and very disagreeable feature at
the hall was the number of ladies who persisted in
standing in the passages and obstructing the view of the
majority of those who chcsa to keep their seats. The
students also distinguished themselves by their rather
openly-manifested admiration of the fair sex present.
Costumes were lor the most part sombre and wintry in
character, varied here and there by a startling get-up.
Among the latter were two bright-red dresses with apple*
green sashes 1 and another of the moat vivid shades of
green. A very pretty Direotoire costume was of slate-
grey with pink front. Hats of the Dorothy shape,
trimmed with the new striped ribbon and aigrettes on
wings, seemed the favourite wear, and navy-blue was the
colour most affected,
Yours truly,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Whenever you read 80-and-ao “Ex-
tended ” mine mentally substitute Die-tended.
Lord Onslow thinks the Argus is a great
paper. But then the Argus thinks Onslow a
great man.
The S. M. Herald eaya “ things are look-
ing up at Funny Corner.” When shares were
selling at £7 sa. it used to be known as Sunny
Corner.
It Is rumoured in England that the Colonial
Office will endeavour to deprive Sir Hercules
Robinson of his pension in consequence of his re-
cent “ seditious ” utterances.
“ Never in the paths of political putrefac-
tion has there been discovered such a hyaena as the
honourable member.”— Slower of parliamentary
oratory grown by Cl ick, M.P.
Anyone requiring the services of a first-
class literary man as editor of or working partner
in a country newspaper is requested to communi-
cate with “ X.Y.,” Bulletin Office.
The Bulletin first pointed out the
iniquity of employing men of the Corps of Com-
missionaires in Government departments. The
Sheriff has taken the hint and no longer employs
casual labour about the Supreme Court.
Senior Constable Sutton who la being re-
moved to Orange, was stationed at Bathurst for
27 years and received a bullet in the aim in an en-
counter with Hall’s gang on the Carcoar road, at
which time, it is alleged, the officer in charge of
the escort made a bolt.
Mr. H. King, photographer, of George-
street, Sydney, has taken some capital views of
the Hawkesbury Bridge, and, amongst other
things, has accomplished the feat of taking a
splendid instantaneous picture of the special train
as it crossed the bridge at full speed.
Sir Hercules Robinson says that Imperial-
ism is doomed, and that the chief factor in future
colonisation will be Republicanisna. He condemns
the system of irresponsible bodies in England
meddling with the wishes and interests of the
colonies. The Colonial and Imperial Institute to
wit.
Why doesn’t the Sydney Evening News
come out boldly and say what (reading between
the lines of the sneaking anti-Irish articles it
has lately published) seems to be in its
heart ? When The Bulletin has time it will
look up and republish what the Evening News
said about the Irish cause when the Redmonds
were here. Once a dog always a dog.
The sentimental Salaman who wrote “I
arise from Dreams of Thee,” during the reign of
William the Fourth, recently celebrated his 75th
birthday by turning out a sorg called “Heart to
Heart.” Fancy a man continuing on the kissie-
kissie love racket from generation to generation,
like old Salaman ! If his soul had toughened in
the ordinary way he would be writing “ Back to
Back ” by this time.
On his arrival at Grosford, N.S.W., the
other day, Premier Parkes was presented with the
customary tommy-rot address by a school-boy
named Peck. On learning the youngster’s name
all the Premier “ pote’s ” elephantine humour
came hobbling to the front at once, and, patting the
lad’s head, he observed : “ Hi ’ope this boy will
peck 'is way through the world successfully.”
That doubled the whole of the class up worse than
a cartload of green apples.
At Sjduey last Saturday, Ralph Manahap,
commercial traveller, shot his wife Leah and his
child and then he shot himself, leaving behind the
most comprehensive written curse ever directed
against a mother-in law. It is only fair to say
t at Mrs. Mary Moses, the lady anathematised,
pleads not guilty, but, nevertheless, the curse
should be carefully varnished and framed and
glazed and solemnly presented to all men and
women who think of getting married and of
allowing ma to live in the same hemisphere with
them. The Bulletin advises every mother-in-law
to cut out Manahan’s curse and paste it in her
hat. It may save her life.
The picnic given by Hon. William Macleay,
President of the new N.S.W. National Club, to
celebrate the club’s inauguration, was a notable
success. The feature of the occasion admittedly
was the admirable impromptu speech made by
Hon. Edmund Barton, Q 0., in responding to
the toast, proposed by David Buchanan, of “The
Protectionist Members of the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment”; and one of the chief features in the
speech was the eloquent and forceful manner in
which Mr. Barton felicitated the country on pos-
sessing, and the Club on having for its president,
a man whose splendid moral courage and love of
truth and justice enabled and prompted him to
resist the infamous Treason-Felony Bill, just as in
the dark and troublous bushranging days his phy-
sical pluck and keen eye enabled him to traverse
alone a land in which outlaws reigned
supreme. Mr. Barton’s speech was listened to
with rapt attention and enthusiastically cheered.
Nature, it was felt by those present, has marked
out the ex Speaker of the Assembly as a future leader
of the N. S. W. National Party. He would probably
have a larger personal following than any other
man in the country, not even excepting Sir Henry
Parkes, and it is to be deeply regretted that the
necessity which compels him to remain at the Bar
should prevent him from at once aspiring to a
political position which (despite his somewhat in-
dolent temperament) hisability, honourable charac-
ter and conciliatory manner would enable him to
adorn. The gathering was pretty well “boy-
cotted ” by the daily press, for reasons not uncon-
nected with the fact that one of the speakers said,
and said truly, that the reports vouchsafed by the
Foreign-trade organs to their opponents were a
disgrace to the country.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ W.Y.M,” (Charters Towers): Griffith, as you
point out, is the type of an ideal democrat—in theory •i n
practice he is only the man who staked his political repu
tation on the Naval Tribute and the bartering away of
Australia's liberties, and lost the deal. A democrat who
was ready to throw away the right ol his country to be
democratic is not the democrat for us. If Griffith, in his
desire for grovel and Imperial Federation, had been
allowed to put Queensland definitely under the rule of the
British Tory majority in a Federal Parliament three-
fourths of which would have been elected by England it
wouldn’t matter a rap whether his followers and ad-
mirers were democrats or not—they would be voted down
by the federated landlords of the mother-country, who
want to run Australia on the old principlesof last century
and who talk of it still as an “ English possession.” By
blocking the first instalment of Imperial Federation
Mil wraith prevented you losing the right to be a demo"
crat. If he isn’t a democrat himself he did more for
Queensland’s democracy than its own self-constituted
leader. The work M’llwraith undertook was the virtual
establishment of an Australian nation. When that is
accomplished he must still keep moving—or else the
democracy will give him notice to quit, but even if he
refuses to do any more, he will have left a larger footprint
in history than any other Australian of his time
“ Bio ” (Melbourne): Your sentiments are good, but the
progression of your metre is more uneven than an in-
toxicated hen bumping through the darkness
*" Bobawdebowsttr”: Land Nationalisation does not
mean immediate confiscation. The load of taxation can
be shifted on to the land by degrees, and as the land-tax
will be increased only by slow instalments there will be
no convulsion. Land, regarded as a private investment,
will decline gradually in value until it reaches the vanish-
ing point, and your fear that insurance companies may
burst through sudden confiscation is quite unfounded.
Insurance companies own very little land as a rule. The
value of your company’s assets may go down perhaps
1 per cent, through the depreciation of its freehold
investments, and your own income will increase in
purchasing value probably 20 per cent, at the same time....
“ E.W.H.” : Received "Banana Jimmy” (Brisbane)-
A palpable ad "Lord Kintore, his shirt’’ (South Bris-
bane): Unsuitable “Bill Sikes’’ (Dulacca): We have
no recollection of the letter. Many thousands have
passed through our hands since then “ H A.V.” (Tas-
mania): Received "D.L. and W.M.”: The matter
possesses no public interest....“J.S.” (Boat Harbour):
We seldom republish poems that have appeared in other
journals. Please send along the verses on the incident in
the "History of Botany Bay.”...."Dandy Dick”: Re-
ceived. .. “ E.S.G.” (Redfern): Too late to be of interest...
"J.M.” (Melbourne): Excellent “A.C.T.”: What is
the title of the book ? What is its date, and where was it
printed?....“A.E.”: Mr. Lee, P.M., has now been re-
moved from Bathurst.... “A.S.” (Harris-street): (1.) The
verses were not finished—we are unable to publish name
of author “Colonial Experience”: Many thanks....
" T. 8.” (Redfern); Despite all you say, he is a clever and
genuine fellow who will yet make a mark high up in the
Australian literature of the day, whatever that may
amount to. His bucolic simplicity is simply beautiful,...
“ D.R.W.” : No fear of the public thinking that we
have cribbed the portrait from the paper named. The
latter picture is taken from a very imperfect pencil-
sketch...." Wakabut”: Many thanks. B’essyou, Editor
Hoolan is an old friend of curs “ A.E.”: Thera are
more offences subject to capital punishment under the
N.S.W. law than in the criminal codes cf all other civilised
and uncivilised countries clubbed together "Jim
Mullins” (W.A.): Many thanks "Cam" (Brisbane):
Good story....“ W.M.S.” (St, Kilda): Why don’t you out
your jokes short?...." ”: [The S. M. Herald,
which ever supports constituted authority, no matter how
constituted, carefully avoids the real point at issue in the
Tamworth case. Whether the judge was right or not in
sentencing witnesses alleged to be (or to have been)drunk
to six months and a year’s gaol respectively, he certainly
did not act in the interests of justice in allowing a pri-
soner to be acquitted merely because witnesses happened
to be temporarily incapable. He could have locked up
the drunken witnesses till next day—a course pursued
this very week by the chairman of Sydney Quarter Ses-
sions—and had them examined when sober; and when the y
had given their evidence he could have further dealt
with them for the contempt. As matters stand, a prisoner
may have been unjustly acquitted simply because the
judge lost his temper, not for the first time in history.
As to the S.M H’s defence of the judge and his sentences,
it is only necessary to turn to a leading article printed in
that time-serving and cowardly paper on 7th January, 1887.
"Harold MT.” (N Z.): Thanks. May use shortly....
“ J.F.N.” (Coogee): Many thanks ; will consider.. ..“E.
Wason ”: In the absence of full information it is not worth
while commenting on the more recent phases of the Par-
nell affair. All that can be said is that Parnell is more a
mystery than ever....“ G H.” (Sydney): We are afraid
there is at present little chanoe of the thing coming off.
The people who have the money haven’t the pluck. As
soon as you begin to talk to a millionaire about disburs-
ing, he freest»s off and begins to think “down the back of
hfsneck.” “Yeoman”: Have sent your contributio
out ol “Adam Bede” consultation winnings to Sydney
Hospital...." G.E.E.” : Many thanks ; already noticed..
"Democrat ” (Melb.): We hope to see about it next week.


Mobt and Chandon’s Champagnb.— Messrs. Meet and
Ohandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
ohampagne-produoers In the world. Their ** Dry-
Imperial ” 1884 vintage is the pure Juioe of selected
grapes from their own vineyards of 2600 acres in the
choicest districts of France. It can now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant In Anetralla. She Imperial
drown le In each Miner el l»bel, end, 1884 branded an
Mrb end label.
BWEST BOROMIA the New Ferfnme. Mann*
factored from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia." Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. 6d.,
55., and 10s. Post free to any address In
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke st., Bast,
MELBOURNE.
Land at Perth, W A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment 00., Ltd.,
96 B ithurst street, Sydney.
QRESOENT BREWING OO.’S
“ AURORA 99
FIL.SEINEIB 8888.
E. B. WHEELER & 00.,
206 CIiAEBNOB SIRBHT,
SYDNEY.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal —"Sinbad the Sailor ” p. 14.
Hub Majesty’s. —" Romany Rye ”
Obitkrion —“Sweet Lavender" „
Gaiety Theatre.— Oogill Brothers „
Phillip Park.— Pain's Fireworks....
The Oyolobama.— The Battle of Gettys-
burg «i
School op Arts.— “ The Strategist”.....
With a view to supplying an obvious void
and filling up a long-felt want a man named Hut-
chinson has started a theatrical enterprise in the
hall of Sydney School of Arts, and judging from
the apparent financial results so far we fear that
the company, it is old age, will be found living
i n a broken barrel beside a lonely river on a
piece of land of which the deed has been lost. The
audience on the opening night of the comedy
season consisted for the first five minutes after the
doors were opened of the deadhead who represented
the Weekly Native Bear and Dismal Bog Emu
and of another man who wanted the treasurer to
change a bad shilling with a hole in it. Then Low
Cow and his brother, Hen Ohook, arrived under the
impression that they cculd both get in for three-
pence, the said sum to be taken out in fruit, and a
little later there ensued a suffocating crowd of one
Dutchman who had slipped on something in the
passage and fallen into the cheapest part
of the house before he could recover his
equilibrium. A dense riot of one lonely Hebrew,
and the faint image of a shadowy person like the
spectre of a meat-hook on a pole, turned up
further on, and after a few scores of the
general public had paid for and taken their
seats, the curtain rose upon the “Strategist,”
in four acts and one disfigured Irishman— a
descendant of King Malachi who used to reign
in the bogs of Kilkenny in the days of the primi-
tive Aryan man. It was a thrilling moment, and
in the intense silence that prevailed the sound of a
scalded chimpanzee falling into the fire would
have been distinctly audible throughout the
house. A pair of lovers who had a
deep scheme for disguising themselves and
thereby taking in two parents who had outlived
their usefulness appeared on the scene, and a
cold-blooded human outrage belonging to the
militia came in with a mountain howitzer and in-
timated that nothing but death would turn him
from his cussednese. He then fired and brought
down a chemist who afterwards got a black eye.
Act 11. was largely concerned with a nigger who
came in with William the Conqueror as evidenced
by a collection of torn manuscript which was
thrown up in the air and came down with a broken
back in the presence of an insane man falsely alleged
to be Tompkins; and then, the hired piano-wrecker
having filled in the interval by falling like the
dews of Hermon upon his instrument and
hitting that organ of harmony when it was
down, the curtain rose on Act 111. in
which the militia Caeiar already alluded to
came home drunk and stamped on his wiles
delicate foot with his hoof of earthly clay.
Possibly this event took place in Act 11, but it
doesn’o matter. Considering the condition of the
fighting man at this juncture the more reasonable
course to pursue would have been to obtain a
patent for him as anew species of adjustable copy-
right hog, but the lady compromised by filling
him up with a gallon of senna-tea wlvch she in-
advertently poured into the wrong person, assisted
by a Dutch footman who eloped with the slavey
in the expectation of a rise of wages, and then the
proceedings terminated in a general sort of way
which didn’t matter much.
«■ • *
The “ Strategist” on the whole Is a mirth-
ful cornedjr played by a company that is reason-
ably good in some respects, but the depressing in-
fluence of a scanty audience hangs over this notice
and lends it an altogether fictitious aspect of
loathing and derision. Miss Ethel Grey, as the
wife of the ensanguined Pompey of the militia,
played her level best, and when she does that the
results are always excellent ; and Miss 'Daisy
Strathmore fell violently into the affections of
the audience and remained there. A certain hol-
low, broken-spirited aspect in Mr. Frank Gerald
was excusable under the ghastly circumstances,
and Messrs. Power, Duff, Andrews, Gray ton, and
Searle bore up tolerably well, considering that
the surroundings were as sad as the burial of an
aged parent at the expense of the parish. Out-
side the building a middle-sizsdman of lugubrious
aspect was observed knocking his head against
the wall and cursing the day he was born, but
whether he was connected with the show or not is
uncertain.
♦# # ♦
The.Cogllls now advertise th’lr perform-
ance as the “Goliath show of Australia,” which,
considering the heaviness and the awful fall of
that leaden-footed man from Gath, is giving it
away in a manner that it really doesn’t deserve.
The murky stranger with the kink in his wool
ought to know better —he really ought. Apart
from this woeful blunder there is little variety of
any kind in Sydney. The eighty square foot
diagram filled with a dizzy pomp of blues and
greens arid tomato-tints remains hoisted in front
of Her Majesty’s as the mute outward symbol
that “ Romany Rye ” is still on the full jump in-
side, bull by way of temporary relief a grand con-
cert will be given this (Thursday) afternoon,
.Signor Hazon clutching the tree of cflic3. “ Sin-
bad the Sailor ” draws depressing houses at the
Royal, which possibly means that the public is
awaking to the fact that pantomime is foolishness,
and that expensive pantomime is only expensive
foolishness; and “Sweet Lavender ” is about to
retire from the Criterion to make way for
“ Mamma,” the respected parent appearing on
Saturday next.
** # #
Now that Parkea haa atretched the halo of
glory placed on the head of John Burns, of
Gettysburg, by Bret Harbe, until it threatens to
fall over the brim of his white hat on to his
shoulders, the few survivors of that bloody battle-
field who dwell in Sydney are trampling up and
down the stairs at the Cyclorama, heaving the
brickbat of vituperation and the ancient egg of
calumny at the old hero and all his works.
They say that after Gettysburg had been in-
vested during two days, in turn by the thirsty
Federals and the parched Confederates, the
liquor naturally ran low, and that John Burns
came out on the third day, not in search
of glory, but of “old rye;” not thirsting
for blood, bat pining for something to drink.
When John Burns found there was no liquor about
he didn’t stay to fight—he made tracks, herein
differing slightly from his illustrious namesake of
N.S.W,, who has a weakness for making roads.
This, of course, is sheer jealousy; John Burns must
have been a good man or Bret Harte wouldn 0
have sung his praises, and if he had not borne a
striking resemblance to ’Bury in the hair line that
worthy would not have been so strongly drawn
towards him.
## # #
The magnetic Mr. G. 0. Mlln grows on
them at Melbourne Opera House, where “Hamlet ”
is an all-round success of unexampled severity
More than mere stage attractor
For a season’s span,
Miln is a fervent actor
In great Nature’s plan,
And looking on the actor
One beholds a man.
The wherefore of the present legitimate boom is
tenderly told in that beautiful verse. From under
Hamlet’s unaccustomed gown a potent personality
asserts its sway ; a melancholy Dane who knocks
the town can’t be constructed in the usual way.
He carries hearts by passionate assaults, this
staunch adherent of Immortal Bill; despite his
little incidental faults it’s quite apparent that they
love him still. Careful searching hereabouts will
reveal another burst of poetry disguised as prose
to make it look more respectable. Mr. Miln im-
proves each shining hour that he plays the homi-
cidal hero of this gruesome tragedy, and he
ought to be gathering money all the day in fair
Ophelia’s bower —but the Muse has at last
broken down. A [few more adjectives of
praise for Miss Louise Jordan’s performance are
in course of preparation ; meantime this lady is
becoming somewhat of a popular idol, and the
fact that her elegant drowned remains are put
underground without an inquest excites much
discontent, especially as a Radical member of the
Shakespeare Society has been heard to insinuate
that she was probably thrown into the water by
the Ghost. Mr. Cathcart is a high-class, appal-
ling spectre, and Mr, Douglas’ Laertes is only
slightly discounted by a seeming seniority over his
worthy father, Polonius. Mr. Hodson’s concep-
tion of old Polony lacks senility and seasoning,
but he awakes from his last sleep behind the arras
to play first gravedigger with cheerful results.
Ireland’s King (rather suggestive ol Parnell) is a
creditable illustration of monarchial iniquity.
Miss Kate Douglas’ flash of talent was commented
upon last week. Horatio is an unexceptionable
courtier, Osric would be much better f< r a sleep-
ing draught, and the balance of the blessing is
bestowed upon young Mr. Vaughan, who painted
all the scenery excepting a beautiful silvery moon.
This patent orb sheds an electric light upon the
world, and comes from America.
** * *
At the Princess’s “Yeoman of the Guard”
is living a gay life upon the reputation of Messrs.
Gilbert and Sullivan, and a rumour that this opera
requires to be studied four times before all its
beauties come to light is lavishly scattered abroad.
Many plays, pelted with carrots on the night,
have deserved the same chance of fame, but never
had the luck to get it. “Shamus O'Brien,” in
which Miss Katherine Russell shines oan consider-
ably, is held up by other vivid effects connected
with a very superior thunderstorm, and the Alex-
andria does a flourishing luuceis accordingly.
Also a stirring Irish night, with Mr. Dillon and
colleagues occupying front seats, brought “Betsy”
to a brilliant conclusion at the Hibernian Hall, on
Saturday. “The Ruling Passion ” has nearly ex-
hausted its fury at the Royal, and next Saturday
(Ilth) witnesses another revival of “New Baby-
lon,” the brightest and most gorgeously incompre-
hensible drama in the annals of Bland Holt.
Poor old Babylon, by the way, was continually
falling some years ago, if a ballad of the period
stated facts, and that ancient city seems to have
toppled over for good. Frank Clark’s people get
there as before, not to mention the performing
fleas, and the Mesmerist.
** * *
The farewell benefit given to M'sa Isabel
Morris, at the Opera House, by Mr. Milo, re-
sulted in a liberal send-off for an actress who has
never neglected to act her best since she alighted
upon these alien shores. A good miscellaneous
show was slightly saddened towards its close by
the apparition of Mr. Phil Beck bearing a bunch
of roses and other garden produce from Mbs
Morris’ brothers and sisters of the purple. Mr. B.
flooded this presentation with a flow of reiterated
eloquence which was worse than the winding up
of a Waterbury. Somehow the oration recalled to
mind a dreadful little boob, called “Philip and
his Garden,” embellished by an illustration of
Philip wielding a watering-pot.
♦* * *
On Monday night a revival of ‘ 1 Modern
Wives ” filled an unaccountable vacuum in the
Hibernian Hall with a demonstration of mirth like
unto 400 people laughing in the wilderness. As of
yore the pleasing trifle is dominated by the god-
like Brough disguised as a retired hat-dealer,
sundry other members of a faithful crew working
at the pump in their old capacities. Variations
on the original caste are an improvement when
judged in the bulk ; Titheradge is the husband,
who returns his wife to her sorrowing parents ;
and Hans Philips fills the billet of the deserted
other husband whose griefs finds a miserable outlet
in discordant howls intended to represent “ Rule
Britannia.” Pattie Brown makes anew departure
as the more fiery wife, with considerable success,
and assists Mrs. Brough to point the eternal
moral that Lovely Woman is an indispensable but
costly feature in our scheme of daily life—
Not all the honey stored in hives,
In busy hives by humming bees—
Not sudden wealth to him who strives
For years to earn bare bread and cheese —
Not liberty to them whose lives
Are spent in wearing chains and gyves—
Not e’en the moment when arrives
To ship becalmed on tropic seas
The blessed, long expected breeze
Were sweeter than such Modern Wives.
The married man that dares to sneeze,
And with the ruling disagrees,
Has had no Modern Wives like these.
(In mercy’s name do stop it, please,
Before we fetch our guns and knives. — Ed. B.)
*« « *
“ Silver Falla,” that Imbecility of a'drama
from London, Is still being witnessed by good
crowds at the Adelaide Royal. Those people who
hadn’t seen the piece before, those who didn't
want to see it, and those who didn’t care a straw
whether they saw it or not have all been there,
but the tcanery and acting have been the sole
attractions. Mr. Bucklaw takes the leading
character, and from the start made a favourable
impression. He is an excellent elocutionist, with
a clear voice, only the wretchedness of his part
gives him little show for good acting. M'. J. H.
Clyndes, another actor of ability, has a pitiable
job as a Mexican refugee. Mr. W. Calvert
appear * as the villain, and does more bad things
than the ordinary run of his sort. Mr. T. H,
Bolton may improve upon acquaintance—we hope
he will. Misses Clara Oowper and Maud William-
son have made a tolerable success apiece under
woeful disadvantages, and Mr. J. Stevenson, a
very clever comedian, brings up the rear of the
procession. “ New Men and Old Faces ” will
prove a most acceptable change. Wirth’s Circus
is booming along with big business, “Dick
Turpin’s Ride to York” being the principal attrac-
tion ; and that amazing son of Columbia, Frank
Lincoln, is coming along shortly to mix his im-
palpable mint-julep in South Australia.
** * #
That grovel! log weekly, the Australasian,
finds fault with the Earl of Carnarvon for saying
we were not “loyal” in his article on Australia
in an English magazine. Indignantly snorts the
mildewed journal :
Asa matter of fact, it is but necessary to wave the old
ag over any occasion to bring Australia to her feet in
loyal and enthusiastic salutation.
Quite so. But how is it that the flag has been
waved nightly at one of the Sydney theatres for
weeks together and all the loyal and enthusiastic
salutation that ensued could have been crowded
into ycur hollow tooth ?
** # #
Bananaland Is giving a warm welcome to
Miss Yon Finkelstein, who has come back from
Jericho, Even at Thursday Island she was laid
under contribution by the inevitable interviewer,
and all down the coast she divided honours with
the new Governor, who with Lady Norman and
Miss Norman were at the Native of Jerusalem’s
first appearance last Monday. By-the-bye, when
the much-travelled Smythe furnishes materials for
future biographies of the “Fair One with the
Golden Lock',” he can always mention that she
came over with the Normans
»* w #
Girl Riaa, the English Opera revivalist,
is dead, so we suppose that Maritana and her
venerable friend the Bohemian Girl will soon
follow the impressario to his long home. Carl
Rosa’s wife, Madame Parepa, used to be a fine
woman before she also died, 17 years ago.
** * *
There Is much comfort In the knowledge
that the step-father of Essie Jenyns (how we have
all forgotten Essie already !) bears no ill-will
towards The Bulletin for steadfastly describing
him as “ Plain Bill Holloway.” He has been
heard to declare that the title—coming from a
paper which always spoke of Plain Bill Dailey,
and occasionally referred to Plain Bill Shake-
speare—was a delicate recognition of his (Hollo-
way’s) claims to be linked with those talented
men. Holloway, in short, regards himself as the
only surviving member of a great triumvirate.
There is but one Plain Bill, and The Bulletin is
his prophet.
** # *
Rumour Insinuates that Frank Lincoln —
who opens at Garner’s Rooms, Adelaide, on the
11th —will bear home a larger quantity of Aus-
tralian specie than any other single-handed per-
former that ever ravaged this continent. And
Lincoln, by the way, tells a harrowing yarn of
how “ Tummy ” attempted to perpetrate a criti-
cism in connection with the cocktail business. It
was at some gi'ded gathering that Lincoln had
mixed his apocryphal refreshment by “ royal
desire,” and when the deed was done Tummy
was observed to be wrestling with a sudden in-
spiration. After a few ssconds of awful suspense
he said: “Mr. L’ncoln, I don’t think much of
that— there's nothing in it,” A more ghastly
caricature of a funny remark never issued from
the yawning mouth of an Heir-Apparent, yet it
showed that poor Albert Edward meant well, and
would like to throw off one little joke before ha
dies, if he only knew how it was dona. The
pathos of this story hangs around the fearful
sufferings of Frank Lincoln, who had to roar with
counterfeited glea until Tummy gave the signal
for laughter to cease.
** * *
The sacred bot om la at last knocked out
of that sorrowful nigger entertainment known as
tha Fisk jubilee Siegers, which Mr. F. J. Loudin
has been running round Australia in the name of
Heaven. At Melbourne Supreme Court recently
Mr. Loudin and his late manager came to legal
blows in ccnueotibn with the division of the
spoil, and now a multitude of parsons and other
professional pietists are dimly conscious that they
snuffisd and wept tears of joy over a show which
is no different to Hicks’ Black Minstrels in the
sight of the gods It was stated byParves, Q 0,,
that he and eassiety at large believed the Fisk
Jubilee Singers to be engaged in keeping the Old
Ark a-movering on philanthropic lines. What
with those little books at 4s. each, the harmonium
and other tricky accessories, it is probable that a
guileless public did regard Loudin as a kind of
Uacle Tom, until last week’s proceedings burst
up the joke. That most of the nigs must have
been born after Emancipation Day was overlooked
when they were warbling their tommy-rot about
Stealing away, &c Now they stand revealed
as a secular crowd of more or less cullud pussons
who never were the slaves of anybody except
showmen, and the long-headed Loudin is Rolling
On with a net profit of £BSOO. Hallelujah !
** * *
Mrs, Joseph Tyson, who was recently en-
gaged by Manager Leavitt to do “musical
specialities and general business ” in New York
for 35 lols. a week, kicked most emphatically
against wearing tights in a burlesque, and left the
show. Court work followed, and asoodol. verdict
was given against the modest lady, the judge
ruling that wearing tights came under the head of
“general business.” Mrs. Tyson declared she
would rather pay up than sacrifice her feelings; a
feet which has led her sister artistes to declare
that she is the possessor either of marvellous
modesty or of two left-handed, gas-pipe sort of legs.
** * #
The Melbourne University atudents, who
have not descended upon the drama in force since
Genevieve Ward was here, took possession of the
Opera House family circle a few nights ago and
shook their gory looks at dear old “Hamlet.”
The boys went on as well as could be wished while
the curtain was up, and between acts they roared
ballads and choruses to the beat of a bleached
thigh-bone, and dangled other human relics on a
string. ' There was not too much student, but just
student enough. Moreover, the lads hadntt for-
gotcen a bouquet for ©phelia, which, being
attached to a tape stretching across the house,
gracefully descended upon the proceedings like a
dove. To the eternal credit of the ’Varsity we
record that the two students at the ends of that
tape didn’t suddenly pull their floral tribute up
again, after the custom common in Dublin.
Ophelia was permitted to annex the blossoms
amidst cheers from the gallant six hundred in the
family circle, and subsequently the demented
virgin went and drowned herself. The tragedy of
“ Hamlet ” must always stir the hearts of medical
students, in-so-far that every leading character dies
a violent death, with the exception of the Ghost,
who is considerably dead all the time.
*# # #
The story goes that a well-known eminent
musician, while out on the Hawkesbury the other
day, got a “yellow-tail” bite. It was the verjr
first time in his life that he had “ hunted ze fish,
and the new sensation excited him tremendously.
“ Sucre,” he shrieked, as he felt another tug I
have an atoack I”
** * *
An American •* dime ” museum exhibits a
snake skin inscribed
Skio of the srpentthat tempted Eve in theGsrden
of Paradise It was killed by Adam the following day
a'ter the treason. AcUm his it with a club, of which
traces are still left. Tnis skin was part of the inheritance
of Adam, and was preserved in his family in Asia. The
genuineness is attested by the doctors of divinity whose
seals ara attached.
#* * #
The following paragraph from an E igllsh
paper concerns the wreckage and shivers of poor,
collapsed, worn-out, superfluous Toole, whom it
i« proposed to import into Australia in the dull
December of his final extinction :
I saw poor old Toole on the terrace yestarday, looking
very “ lone and lorn.” The last time I met him was at
Aix-les-Bains in the summer, when his wife and daughter
were with him and he was full of life and spirits. He has
aged tremendously since then, and has got to look quite
listless and broken-down. He was dressed in a long, ill-
fl Sting frock coat, surmounted by a very wide-brimmed
top-hat, and he walked quite lame, stooping distressingly
as he went. He said he had not had the energy to try his
luck at the tablss, which shows how utterly broken-down
he is, for at Aix he was a most constant punter at the
baccarat tables in the Villa des Fleurs. He is going on to
Genoa and Naples in a few days, and half thinks of at-
tempting the journey by sea; but he is a shocking hid
sailor, and shrinks from the possibility of a mistral.
## # *
That never-ending law-suit Want v. Moss,
which relates to the right claimed by Mr. Jack
Want.Q C.—nobody calls him John -thesoleuseof
the O P. dress-circle box in Sydney Theatre Royal,
has been referred to the Privy Council. That
box bids fair to coat somebody £10,030 ere it’s
done with. The result of the appeal will finally
determine which side is entitled to 12 years’
further use of the box aforesaid,
*♦ * ♦
A Melbourne girl has Invented a crush
hat for ladies’ wear at plays and operas. The
new tile may be folded up and used as a fan; but
we’ll bet a pile it will never equal the old high
hat for creating breezos at the theatres.
## * *
Down South recently a company of
amateurs were giving a performance of “The
Bohemian Girl,” which catne to a sudden and
inglorious end at the conclusion of the first act.
Davilshoof had kidnapped the infant Arline and
was rushing across the bridge with her when the
structure gave way with a crash and the boss of
the gipsies and the chee-ild c ime down with a
paralysing “ wallop ” on the stage. Arline began
to howl “ blue murder,” and Count Arnhiem (who
happened to be her real father) gave Davilshoof
“ what sort ” in the eye for attempting to kill his
offspring. Davilshoof, whose ankle was sprained,
began to weep and use bad language, and the
curtain fell amidst much shrieking and profanity.
#* # #
Some remorseless villain has written an
entirely new version of “ Bast Lynne,” in a pro-
logue and four acts
Emily Soldene has atarteJ a dramatic
agency in New York.
' * * * #
Selina Dolaro, the actreap, died the other
day in New York. A short time before her de-
mise Mrs. Langtry reserved a box for her on the
opening night of “ Macbeth,” and a few moments
before the performance commenced received from
her the following note:—“I expect to die this
evening, and so cannot accept yoar kindly hos-
pitality.”
According to cable, the Kurds are com-
mitting outrages in Armenia. It is often the
whey with Kurds.
A banquet at the French Club, Melbourne,
in celebration of the Revolution, was enlivened
by “The Marseillaise” and “God Save the
Queen.” What a nauseous mixture of sentiments.
Another version ! here we curse
The author of this cruel wrong ;
Perchance it will be even worse
Than that the world has borne so long.
We can’t conceive a blacker sin
Than dramatising more “East Lynne.”
A prologue and four acis ! Alas!
Fresh woes for L *dy Isabel—
New agonies that will surpass
Those other ones we know so well.
Did ever human bsing spin
A viler drama than “ East Lynne ?”
Another dose of Madame Vine
Must we then swallow by and by ?
Ah 1 no, our life we will resign;
Dear Editor, we wish to die—
Please dig a hole and drop us In
Before they play the new “East Lynne.”


■\X7“ o 1 f o ’ s Sclinapps.
-— the —
Most Popular Liquor in the Colonies.
“My Tailor,” 154 King Street, Newtown. Don’t forget
fhim. Sn'ta to measure for £3 3s.
“The greatest appetiser, stomach and liver regulator—
Dr SojlVs American IT >p Bitters."
The Brickbat.
[Slung by "Titus Salt.”]
The new Melbourne Standard made
a fair start the other day, and the artful
Jimmy Thompson got Governor Wobmson o
set the machinery in motion. We have re
the report of the proceedings right through, and
as we did so innumerable old memories began to
drift through our spacious intellect. There waan t
any Governor on hand when the Bulletin
machinery first started. The weapon with which
the first Bulletin was printed waa a German
contrivance probably put up by Bismarck as an
elaborate outrage on the Anglo-Saxon race, and as
we look back on the manners and customs of that
primitive implement we remember with satisfac-
tion that we have since got square with the bald-
headed Chancellor in various ways. Also, our
animosity will follow him to his grave. The
Teutonic printing wreck was purchased on the
time-payment principle—nothing down and the
balance to be paid when convenient or thereabouts.
As far as its outward aspect was concerned
it chi-fly resembled two tons of iron rust,
and its unreliability was lbs strongest
feature. It had a roar like a bon at
feeding-time when it was in steady motion,
but when it began to go off into plaintive cadences
and falsetto wails, and its deep bas3 ,by“ n 00 "l'
meaced to fade away, so to speak, and it broke off
into barks and fragments and scraps of immoral
songs, then the talented proprietary at once un
deratood that something had gone wioog anl
rushed in to see what was the matter. At these
times it required to be stopped promptly or else it
would jerk the leading article on to the floor, and
throw the original poetry into the next street.
Along with this sinful ruin there was a certain
loathsome gas-engine which stood straight up on
end, and smelt of more grease at the joints than
a burnt-down tallow factory. It looked whenin
repose as reliable as a painted Bimon Peter, but
the racket it made and the dust it coughed out
and the way it clanked and groaned in the silent
watches of the night were awful to listen to. ilie
only time the machine would go was when the
gas-engine had broken down, and the only
time the gas-engine would go was when
the machine was broken down, and gener-
ally the two broke down together on pub-
lishing nights and left the firm desolate.
When the engine chanced to be working it went
with three caterwauls and a " p-f-t ” ; every time
the piston went up it blew all the gas-lights out
and every time it came down it found the place in
darkness. Then the boy who was feeding the
machine would rush for the brake, but the brake
was on the other side of the glandered implement
and it invariably took him five minutes to find it
in the darkness, and in the meantime the machine
kept on printing in the empty air and scattering
its ink promiscuously over the earth. The com-
posing-room was six public houses away from the
printing-press, and when a compositor started to
take down a "forme” he generally disappeared for
ten hours or so, to turn up ultimately in a bed
state of hie, with an imbecile leer on his features
and two “ i’s ” and a " u ” in his hand as the sole
remains of a quart of type that had been spilled in
the wilderness. The office was a stifling structure
adjacent to the Scandinavian Hall in Oastle-
reagh street, Sydney, and it afforded only sufficient
room for the crippled horse-power already alluded
to, in consequence of which infirmity the able editor
and his staff had to write the first few issues in an
adjacent hotel—we don’t like to say public house.
During their absence unauthorised persons would
come in and wipe their hands on the office towel
and throw road-metal at the plant and fixtures,
but this annoyance was gradually quenched. The
ceremony of starting the machinery, as already
mentioned, was not performed by his Excellency
the Governor ; in fact it was done in an unosten-
tatious manner and without any frills. One of
the partners turned on the gas and nearly blew
himself up, while the other—Mr. John Haynes,
how anM.P.—braced himself against the fly wheel
and gave it a shove. Then there waa a long pause,
had the gas was turned off and on again several
times, and at last the whole staff made a desperate
effort and git the father of modern literature in
motion. This being done the company went out
one at a time and drank success to the new ven-
ture ; they didn’t go out together as it was con-
sidered desirable to leave two men on hand to keep
an eye on the machine. While the drinks were in
progress the place nearly took fire twice; six
copies of the paper were safely printed ; and the
meter registered 18s. 7d. worth of gas. At this
stage the plant and utensils seemed to take a sort
of fit, and before they could be stopped revolving
a breakage took place which cost £3 2s. fid. in re-
pairs. The taller of the proprietors then grasped
the handle and converted himself into a beast of
burden for the time being; his muscles had been
developed while hauling up buckets of mullock on
a duffer claim in Queensland, and he calculated
that he was just the motive power that was
wanted at this emergency ; but a brief trial prove i
that his centre of gravity was too high up, and he
failed miserably. His place was taken by the
present member for Mudgee, and for the rest of
that night John Haynes might have been visible
to any casual spectator dying of sheer exhaustion
at the handle as he doggedly printed that first
issue by hand. He took most of his clothes off by
instalments as the struggle went on, and he melted
away visibly by evaporation, but when the cold,
gray light of dawn appeared on the horizon John
was still at the pump with one boot on and a few
other inconsiderable trifles; and at last the final
copy was printed, and then Mr. Haynes went to
sleep standing up and turned the handle in his
dreams. He was so stiff in the joints that all his
partner’s efforts to make him let go and lie down
on the floor were unavailing, and at last he tied
John to the machine with a bit of string, and,
having turned off tbe gas, proceeded to issue the
paper to the exjited public Just at this crisis,
however, the slab-sided larrikin who was hired to
deliver the journal round the suburbs struck for
cash in advance, and then the city was electri-
fied by the spectacle of one of the proprietors
of a great moral journal cantering through the
streets with a hand cart, and disseminating his
paper with his own hands. There were no guber-
natorial frills at the commencement of The Bul-
letin ; the champagne and the speeches and the
cigais were all left out, and there was no attempt
made to put on effete trimmings of any sort, but
still we like to look back on that occasion at times,
and the memory of the escaped John dying in the
last ditch in his efforts to print the opening issue
has as much genuine poetry aud magnificence in it
as all the artful Jimmy Thomson’s vice-regal cele-
brations.
• » •
A humble aud charitable Christian, the
Bishop of Armidale, holds forth on some con-
spicuous points of the faith :
Here is an example—a child o( unbelieving parents died
unbaptized in open contempt of that hoiy Sacrament
without any notice whatever to parson ,
or trustee ; the body was buried in a Cburoh of Eaglanu
Ometery, and a lay friend, I am informed, with marvel-
lous inoonsistenoy and obvious inappiopriateness, read
the Birial Satvioe of the Church of England over the
body. Nov, lam disposed to say that an unbaptized
child's body may not be interred in a Church of England
burial ground at all.
Poor little infant ! It died “in open contempt of
the holy Sacrament ” when it was toa young even
to spell the word, and perished in an unauthorised
sorb of way without writing to inform the Church-
warden, parson, or trustee that it was dead, and,
therefore, a high priced bishop rises ta damn its
mortal remains and to fire the who’e artillery of
the Church at its memory. Why doesn’t the
bishop hit something of his own size ? Further—
An unbaptiz’d child is not a Christian.
How in thunder can a bishop teli who is or who is
not a C uristian ? No doubt he may be learned in
the old time squabbles and shrieks of the Jebuaites,
and the Amoiioes, and the Ammonites, and the
Amalekibes, he may be well up in the clams that
the Israelites trod on in the Red Sea, he may have
studied the liquors of Ephraim, and the shocking
bad hats of Manasseh, and the pills that Zsbalon
took when he didn’t feel well, and he may under-
stand the whole political economy of the Philis-
tines down to the dog tax that was levied in Ash-
dod, but ha can’t tell who is or who is nob a
Oarisbian any the more for all that. But there is
mare to follow :
The Sacrament of Baptism mak sever/child necessarily,
and every adult worthily rece'ving it, a Christian, and
none are by man to be so reckoned without baptism ;
consequently the c'iurch deolinos knowingly to use her
consolatory words of salvation to the mourners at the
funeral of an unbaptizod person, or to declare of the dead
unbipt J zed hopes of wtich, as far as Hoty S3ripbure (and
in this she has to other guide) saith, cannot bs entsr-
tained except concerning the doad in Christ.
From this we conclude that it is time either to
get a new Scripture or a new bishop, and on the
whole we vote for the new bishop. The old ope is
ALLEGORICAL PICTURE-No 1.
THE ANCIENT BEHEMOTH TRYING TO UPROOT A TREE AS DESCRIBED IN
THE SCRIPTURES. (From a very old print, Not in the possession of any one in
particular )
evidently played out. Thera is too much perdi-
tion about him, and he sloshes round too wildly
with the worm that dieth not and the brimstone
and the eternal fire, and flings the everlasting
horrors about with too lavish a generosity, and
tears round too madly with the bottomless pit in
one hand and the sixth vial in the other, and boils
ovar too extensively concerning Sodom, and the
second death, and the dragon, and the furnace, and
theother fixtures. Therefore we urge that ha should
be abolished, or if this is impracticable that his
salary should be reduced until he eases off a little,
and blazes in a milder key, and hustles a little less
actively after the loit souls of infants who were
too young to be responsible and didn’t know
that they ought to give notice to the trustee that
they were dead.
• * *
Iq the far interior of N.S.W., where the
slow go of the local yahoo leaves elephantine
boot-tracks on the top o! the globe, the great hope
and comfort of the Australian soul seemsto be in
holding an agricultural show. The agricultural
show is a thing that is hard to define ; perhaps
one may get as near to it a> is permitted to fallen
mortals here below when he describes it as an
agitated funeral wiih turnips in it ; but, anyhow,
it is the prevailing dissipation of the back regions,
and when the annual function comes round the
whole district for several feet in every direction
steeps itself iu revelry and keeps high carnival by
gaz'ng fishily ah samples of oats. The town of
Orange (N.S W.) held its yearly shriek of mirth
the other day. and in the matter of riotous
solemnity and flurry and bear it appears to be the
unanimous opinion that it struck a high note in
the scale of progress. Orange itself is a blighted
camp of yellow bricks, hark and slate, standing on
a p’ain of rad dust where a perpetual simoom
blows ; and there once a year the scraggy goat is
tied up with thread to a post, and the bloated cat
with the black eye is hitched by the tail to the
wall, and the scared and toothless hen is confined
in an old bat-box in a public place, and the
melancholy gentleman cow is placed before the
optic of the nation, and the singed dog and the
broken-down sheep are exhibited in fetters; and
this panorama, being supervised by a committee
and described in the worst emorlged' programme
ever known, is alluded to as an agricultural show.
Then the bush-headed white native tows himself
slowly and sagaciously through the collection by
means of various imcbanicil contrivances for
lifting heavy weights, and urgbs his six foot wife
and his gawky daughter with a mouth like a bale
of hay through the giddy halls of riot and luxury ;
and as he fixes his illiterate eye cn the ram whose
sides have fallen in, and looks with centuries of
weariness in his gaze at the bag of cow-feed ex-
hibited by Farmer Chump, he feels convinced that
the programme lays over the gilded revels which
used to fill the palace of Versailles in the days of
its glory, and thinks how the old, llbwn out
monarchs of Europe would sit up in amazement if
they cou’d stand where he is standing, and gape,
with their crowns and sceptres on, at the hen feed
along with him; As a rale it rains heavily at
Orange just before the show comes on, and as a con-
sequence balf the surrounding population is bogged
in its efforts to reach the scene where the excite-
ment culminates and the tattered fowl and the un-
nituraliy swollen onion urge the public frenzy to
its Ail over the country* broken-down
horses are being prodded by the oldest inhabitant
into renewed efforts to get out of the mud hole
before it will be too late to join the great insur-
rection, and everywhere around the toothless
grandfather who came in with the Oonqperor is
foundered in two feet of mud and is frantically
shoving at his ucgreased buggy where it stands
imbedded among the clods. Generally his efforts
are not rewarded,- and then the fat muslin maiden
of 12 stone who roosts on the front seat is dredged
out in tears and conveyed to the nearest public-
house, and tie agricultural show is lost to her for
another year. And, meanwhile, to pile up her woes
and fill her jug cf misery to overflowing, she is
filled with the bitter consciousness that some
othor girl, whom she despises because her hat is
two feet lower than her own and has eleven le-s
stuffed birds on the top of it, has probably got
there, and is leaning up against the pen where the
Cochin-China rooster with his tail torn out shines
in all his glory, and is otherwise putting on airs
which ought to be extinguished. There is enough
bitterness about an agricultural show to wreck an
empire, but the final upheaval comes when the
prizes are allotted, for then the man who
put up the lank and sombre cow with its
l}on} grown into its eye wants to know
why the boiler-plate medal was given to
the man who inserted the rheumatic heifer
with consumption and its ear dislocated ; and
the owner of the patchy yellow bull desires
to fight 70 rounds with the proprietor of the blue
working bullock ; and the lady who exhibited the
cockatoo with fits can’t be made to comprehend
why she didn’t get the first prize for agricultural
implements and an honourable mention in the
green-fodder department ; and when all these
woes are healed or smothered the procession trails
wearily homeward over the boulders, and feels
that life will be a blank until Time has struggled
round again upon his axis, and the date for another
dog eared exhibition has come round.
The Ozvr has just escaped being killed
■with poisoned bomb-shells. Sydney “fresh”
eggs at 3s. po: dozen, we presume.
An article which appeared in the Bulletin
some time ago, entitled, “ Murder male Easy,”
is well illustrated by an inquiry just concluded
in E'ogland, into the circumstances attendiog
the conviction of the two innocent men, Bran-
nigan and Murphy, for the burglary at Edlingham
Vicarage in 1871). It has revealed a moat malig-
nant and abominable police conspiracy. The
chief culprit, Superintendent Harkes, is unfortu-
nately dead, but his four understrappers remain.
Oi: these three have been commiated for trial for
perjury. As the cise now stands for the prosecu-
tion, the circumstantial evidence against Bran-
nigan and Murphy was from first to last carefully
and deliberated concocted. Superintendent
Haikes is said to have had a bitter animosity
against the two men as poachers who had kept him
uo an night and given him agooddedof trouble.
When he took Brannigan into custody he said,
“ You d d scoundrel, I mean to bring this
home to you ” “And,” adds Brannigan, bitterly,
'“he did so, begad.” The superintendent appears
to have himself made tracks with the prisoners’
boots beneath the Vicarage window, to have cut a
button off Brannigan’s trousers, and then dropped
and discovered it in the room where the burglery
took place, and to have torn a piece from a news
paper at the Vicarage and secreted it in Murphy’s
coat pocket. And yet men and women have be en
hanged on far less circumstantial evidence than
that which these wretches vamped up to ruin two
innocent men
In West Australia visitors from the Eastern'
colonies are called “ Obhersiders.”
The Idea of “ Robert Elsmere” seems to
be that ’Ell’s mete bosh.—Exchange.
A man gob threa months for stealing a
Bible in Melbourne the other day. And yet they
tell us the gospel is free to all!
At Rockhampton Supreme Court.— Con.
stable Walsh : Oi attended the post-mortem
examination of the deceased. The body was
dead.
The Brisbane correspondent of the Ar6us
falls into a curious astronomical error by saying
that “the neck of the drought is bent, if not
broken.” He intended to say “ back.”
At a Church Congress In Sydney the other
day a parson urged his brother clergymen to deal
with practical subjects in. the pulpit and cease
harping always on “ the niceties jef dogmas,” The
“ niceties ! ’ Hell is one of them.
“What will happen to you if you tell a
lie?” asked the Williamstown (Vic ) Bench of a
small boy w iiness the other day. “ I’ll drop down
dead !” was the ready response. And yet they
want more Bible in State schools,
Schiller was only 14 years of age when he
wrote his great play of “ The Robbers,” and, of
course,, knew nothing about the N.S.W. Foreign-
trade party. This accounts for the omission of
their nam's in the list of the dramatis personal.
There was a young swell in Rockhampton,
Whose toes got most terribly tramped on ;
He had them took off,
And now he’s a toff
With timber toes skillfully clamped on.
Maitland (N.S. W.) racecourse on
Friday last a bookmaker dropped dead while
shouting “ Four to one bar one ! ” While some
professed friends were chafing his hands a valuable
diamond ring, said to ba worth £2O, was stolen
from his finger !
“ Did you hear cf Nellie and her faith.
cure?’’ “No. What about it ?” “Well, you l
knew she had a cancer ?” “Yes” “Half the
old hens in the city were there praying and
encouraging her, and ” “And she was-
cured?” ** Yes —of her faith.”—Wasp.
The first of the new season’s crop of lepers
has turned up in Dublin. The unclean one is an'
Irishman, and now the police want to know how
he acquired the complaint, and whether he has
founded'a family of lepers somewhere or other,
or whether he was himself founded by a previous
leper bidden away somewhere in the wilds of Sligo
or Galway, or in the buck blocks of Tipperary.
When the lasbN.Z esnsus vns taken, with
each of the sets of census forms issued to the
householder was a specimen schedule, designed to
illustrate the correct method of supplying the
information required by the State. The last line
read as follows Name, Bridget Murphy; sex,
female; occupation, domestic servant; nationality,
Irish; religion, Roman Catholic; education,
cannot read or write. This was, of course, a
genuine “injustice to Ireland, ’ and from one end
of the country to the other rose a loud Hibernian
protest against the Registrar-General thus con-
temptuously using, for the information of thick*
headed Sassenachs, a royal Irish name.
At a trial in England lately of a man ac-
cused of murdering another in a hansom cab by
administering chloral, a Dr. Julius Dreschfield,
F R C.S , professor of pathology, and several
other things, deposed that chloral was far more
dangerous when acting with alcohol than when
alone. This opinion seems opposed to the results
of colonial experience. The Bulletin knows a
surgeon who has treated, and is still treating,
numberless oases of delirium tremens and so on,
and whose constant habit it is to give a large dose
of chloral and bromide of potassium, and then to
give the patient two or three ounces of brandy on
top of it! And there is no medical man in Aus-
tralia who has been more successful in dealing
with bad “ drunks ” than that surgeon.
The beer king of New Zealand Is burly
Louis Ehrenfried who, it is said, owns or controls
close on 150 hotels. Many years ago, at the time
of the West Coast rush, he started cattle-dealing,
shipping cargoes of live stock from Melbourne to
Hokitika and the Grey. O wing to the dangers of
navigation on the bars of the West Coast rivers,,
the insurance companies declined to insure and
owing to the wreck of one of his vessels with a
large consignment Ehrenfried found himself
heavily involved tni was compelled to go bank-
rupt with a debit balance of £lO,OOO or so. He
then started business at Thames goldfield as a
brewer and rapidly amassed a fortune. Once
fairly on bis feet he visited all the Australian
cities where he was indebted and paid every one
of his old creditors in full.
A fine of champagne Is now the punish-
ment in London clubs for any reference to the
Pigott esc landre, which circumstance “ Dagonet”
happily hits off thus :
It’s reckoned now the worst of crimes
If in your club you name the ;
And though you be a Home Rule bigot,
You must not breate bhe name of .
Where’er your wand’ring fancy roams,
Your lips must shape no sound of ;
Nor must they e’en ra whispers falter
The patronym of old friend •.
Society has put its ban on
The soft riparian sound of —,
On all the aiders and abetters
Who helped to bcom the famous ——.•
So far, so good but ’twere as well
If we could add to these ——,
And blot from out our conversation
All reference to the .
A fanny anecdote illustrative of the gullß
bility of the Times as far back as 1832’, is going
the rounds of the papers :
The e’erks and pupils of a solicitor in London agreed to
take in a paper between them. All of them wished for
the Times, except one, who voted f r the Herald 1 , This'
one, however, was resolved to carry his point, which he
did in this way. He said to his companions, “ Why, who
in the world would take in the paper that any
fool can humbug—that wi 1 inseit any lie? If I make
the Times insert a lie, and continue to build up
more lies on the first one for the next several 1
days to come, will you then take (he Herald ? ’ This
proposal seemed so fair that they agreed to it. Ac-
cordingly >he cl-tk went home, and immediately wrote
a story of the Duke of Wellington’s groom having killed
a lady. The Times bolted it without a suspicion. The
day alter he seno the Times an account of the coroners
inquest—“ distress of the family not to be described,” &c.
Toe Timis lolted this also. The day after ha corrected
his first statement, by saying it was L'rd Palmerston’s
groom, not the duke's. Tae Times tow put on its armour
and stood forward to avenge the insulted majesty of law.
- It summoned Lord Pa’merston before its bar, and de-
manded of him to bring h's offending groom to punish-
m nt; but the leading journal never suspected a hoax.


Dry Impbriaii Champagnb. —Messrs. Meet and Chandon
are the largest vineyard proprietors ftn( * champagne pro-
ducers in the world. Their “DRY IMPERIAL _ 1884
vintage is the pure juice of selected grapes from their own
vineyards of 2500 acres in the choicest districts In France.
The Imperial Crown is in each corner of label, and 1884
branded on cork and label.
The English People’s William
Is the grand old W.G.,
But Australia’s People’s William
Is the Famous Billy Tea.
Packed Osly by
JAMES INGLIS & CO. t
4 and 6 Dean’s Place,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Why do American Hop Bitters cure so much?”
■'Because they give good digestion, rich blood, atd
healthy action of ail the organs.”
JOHN M'EIVAN A CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Limb and Estate Assets,
Business Brokers dt Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
li-pags Country Properties, Farms, Qraslaf
Properties, &0., So.
Bfi'Pase List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villaci
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, fto.
FiiiM Utt sr luiaeuK tmw lain Imisl BnUgl
411 blit, oo sled Free op ep pliant tea
Personal Items.
Thomas Walker, M.L.A., has a novJ*l In
the press.
The late Blahop Ullathorne wan a sailor in
bis youth.
The new Duchess of Sutherland standstill,
without her shoes.
Bismarck has got a new pet dog which he
has named “Sedan.”
The editor of a Barcoo paper advises ex-
Queen Nathalie to leave Servia.
lima de Murska was, It appears, the
daughter of an Austrian colonel.
Mrs. J. L. Toole died In her sixty-fifth
year. Then, how old is Toole himself ?
Edmund Yates has signified his desertion
of Liberalism by joining the Tory Oarlton Club.
Chubb, Q O , will probably be the next
ftDDointment to the Queensland Supreme Court
Bench.
The Czar has a presentiment that ha will
die on his 4Gth birthday. He was 45 on March
10 bh last.
Dr. Krauel, late Consul-General for Ger-
many in Australia, is acting as secretary of the
Samoan Congress at Berlin.
The great Professor Huxley was for three
: years (1847 50) assistant-surgeon on a man-of-war
in the Australian squadron.
The Prince of Monaco, who draws his
'revenue from the gaming tables, is surrounded by
Jesuits and is “ very religious.”
The Duke of Manchester, the Esrl of
'Denbigh and Earl of Wiachelsea are, we regret to
observe, electors of Queensland.
The West Australian Colonial Treasurer 1s
r chiefly remarkable for enjoying good dinners and
making bad speeches after them.
The late Dr. Bromby left all all property
to his son excepting only his furniture and his
Bible which he vested in his young wife.
Gladstone’s late brother, Sir Thomas, was
an out-and-out Tory. Cardinal Newman’s brother,
as the world knows, is an out-and-out Agnostic.
Thadeus O’Kane Is in another libel cam
with Buckland. Trouble— reprinting article from
London Echo which paper is being sued for
>£25,000.
Houston, the spry young secretary of the
Loyal and Patriotic” Union, who was go-
between for the Times and Pigott, is the son of a
f gaol-warder.
The resident secretary of a Sydney Insur-
;ance Company writes after his name the following
symbols of importance “ J.P., D S., I.O.R. ;
G.T., I.OG.T.”
The Mundic Miner (Q) gets foul of
Thady O'Kane. It calls him " a cantankerous
old wretch,” and alludes to his paper as “hisin-
congenious old rag.”
A Spanish journalist, it is cabled, has just
got four months’ gaol for libelling the Duke of
Edinburgh. Saying something nasty about his
appetite, we presume.
A hair from Gladstone’s head fetched 4
in Naples recently. Now if Parkes were only as
great a man as Gladstone what a fortune there
would be on the outside of his head !
Sir Hercules Robinson has been In immi-
nent danger of drifting into a pear, hut hopes
are now entertained that bis recent _ Republican
1 speech will enable him to dodge the disaster.
Pastor Kinsman, of Melbourne (an auc-
tioneer, by the way) has just performed his six
‘thousandth marriage. He is thus hated by no less
than twica 5999 people on this and the other side
bf the grave.
Ere leaving for England the other day Mr.
■James Fairfax, of the S M. Herald, generously
gave £1000 towards the completion of the Nurses’
Home in Connection with the Prince Alfred
Hospital, Sydney.
Someone showed Frank Lincoln a Mel-
bourne “ comic ” paper the other day, “ Is this a
'comic paper?’’ asked Frank. “Yes.” “Why
don’t they label it to that effect,” he-enquired—
1,8 Guees it would obtain some if folks only knew.”
Archdeacon Farrar, of Westminster Abbey,
’in consecrating his son-in-law as Bishop of Tas-
mania, last week, said he regarded the Australian
colonies as “the bulwark of the British Empire.”
They’re evidently the bulwark of the Farrar
'family.
Mr. Alfred Wyatt, P.M. at Echuca (Vic.),
has twice fined himself for not taking his seat
punctually on the bench. Mr. Wyatt is too honest
altogether for this wicked world. Any other
'‘beak” would merely “admonish and dis-
charge ” himself.
A Paris correspondent describes the Em-
press Eugenie:—“A fragile form, veiled and
robed in black, a pallid face and snow-white hair,
and the infirm gait of a rheumatic invalid —such is
the image presented by her who was the most
famous beauty on earth.”
Senior-Sergeant W. H. Prior, who ar-
rested the alleged Young (N.S.W.) murderer
(since acquitted), is considered as good a tracker
as any aboriginal native. The black tracker, by
the way, is sometimes as big a humbug as the
writing-expert. Even the cleverest trackers often
fail in a most humiliating way.
Old David Small, cf Ryde, Sydney, Is not,
it appears, the oldest Australian white resident,
one David Berry, of Shoalhaven, N.S.W., who is
said to own about five millions worth of property,
being now within one year of the century. Mr.
Berry 's vast wealth, the result of old Crown grants,
is, it is said, all to go to the Presbyterian Church.
“Jack” Want, Q.C., who has just re-
turned to Sydney from Japan, has been inter-
viewed by an evening newspaper reporter. Half
the conversation between Jack and his tormentor
on the occasion related to Japanese girls accord-
ing to the reporter. Mr, Want, however, explains
that the reporter refused to talk about or lisoen to
anything else.
Percy St. John, the novelist who died the
other day in London, wrote several hundred works
of fiction. The day before he died he delivered a
batch of manuscript to a publishing firm, remark-
ing “I have done my work. It is time I had
some rest.” We have read one or two o! Sb
John’s works and consider it is quite time the
world had a rest.
Burgess, a Queensland editor, died in an
hospital up there last week He had goc and abilities,
-wa< sober to abstemiousness, was as industrious as
an ant, and was an upright family man. He wrote
in his various papers right out from his heart and
with all the light his head could give. Yet he
died in the Ipswich hospital, and in poverty.
What is the Apostolic calling nowadays ?
C. H. Bnzacobt, managing director of
Brisbane Courier, Morley of the Observer,
Barker of the Courier, with a lot of other scratch
men, worked “ at case ’ on the night of the strike
of the Brisbane printers, who cleared out at two
hours’ notio*. Brzzy is reported to have sent
home for type-setting machines ala Alfred
Bennett, who, we hear, has already been able to
reduce his composing s aS by 20 men.
The King of Sarvia abdicated, it la under-
St od, in order that he may live in peace and com-
fort with the wife of his lata private secretary.
While he remained on the Throne theie was
always a fear of the Queen scratching the other
lady’s eyes out. So the turtle doves have built a
little nest far from the madding crowd, and
Milan’s kingly crown has baen altered to fit the
13-year old skull of his son. Thus is history made.
An American girl won the first prize at the
Nice beauty-show, the second being a glorious
Frenchwoman with blonde hair, named Dennet.
The partisans Of the Parisienne swore that the
Bnglish-milors had “squared’’the judges in the
interests of the “ Mees,” and the outcome cf this
bad feeling was the arranging of a duel between
tha Earl of Chesterfield and Mme. Dennet’s right
bower. Princa Roland Bonaparte, one of the
owners of Monte Carlo Gaming Hell, however,
successfully mediated.
The late Edward Butler, Q. 0., of N.S.W.,
was once defending a prisoner for alleged cattle-
stealing at Breeza, and among the witnesses called
for the prosecution was a black tracker. Butler
rose up to cress examine the darkey—" Now you
know don’t you ?’ he asked. The tracker
shook his head. “What! you don’t know
Braflza?” The aboriginal again shook his head.
The judge, seeing ihe difficulty, interposed.
“Now,” he asked, “don’o you know Bre< za?” A
smile lit up the aboriginal’s face, “Of course
mine knowit Breezs,” he replied; “but that
ALI EGORICAL PICTURE-No 2
NEEDS NO VERBAL ELUCIDATION. (From a very old print, likewise)
fool there (pointing to Butler) him call it
‘ Braaza !
“ Aucheuff ower ”is the name of the resi-
dence of ex-Premier MTlwraith in the suburbs of
Brisbane. Hart and Flower are a leading firm of
Brisbane solicitors. One day Sir Thomas tele-
phoned, in broad Scotch, to the central office :
“Pat me on to Auehenflower.” “Very well!”
answered the official —“Hart and Flower.” The
connection established, the limb of the law at the
other end was knocked backwards when he heard
—“ Hart and Flower be blanked, you thicSt-healed
! Auehenflower, I said !”
Whan la Charity like a top? When It
begins to hum!
The Bundaberg firmers are negotiating
with Ohaffeys for irrigating the Burnett district,
A company of £200,000 is spoken of.
An American oculist has discovered a
disease of the eye which he trices directly to
c ; garatte - smoking. Toe “cigarette eye” is
characterised by dimness, and a film-like gather-
ing over its surface. We have often noticed that
the cigarette-smoking young man is fishy-eyed.
At a Victorian assize sessions for April
one of the jury sitting in a horsestealing case
caused some amusement in court. Before the case
was opened he rose in his place to ask if the pri-
soner were charged with stealing or only “ bor-
rowing ” the horse. He was afterwards most
patronising to everybody, occasionally admonish-
ing the prisoner to “ speak up, my bey." After
many interruptions he quieted down and had a
short snocze, and finally at the conclusion of the
damningevidence of half-a-dozen witnesses, and the
address of the Crown Prosecutor, and the summing-
up of the Judge, he again seriously arose from his
place to ask “ if it was a civil or criminal case we
been try in’, your Honor ? ’ The J udge was asked
to remove him, but declined, as “he only observed
some eccentricity, nothing sufficient to incapa-
citate the man as a juryman.” Good old judge !
POLITICAL POINTS
A Melbourne paper Bays that the mantle
of M'Elhone has fallen upon Crick.
Notwithstanding lbs malignant opposi-
tion, Melbourne Age does not refuse the “ads,” of
the Irish envoys.
The petition to the N.S.W. Parliament
for the release of the Brookong rioters was signed
by 45,000 persons.
Many printing orders from the Queensland
non-union offices are being done by Sydney union
offices. Labour must federate,
Sydney Echo said the other day that
“ stupidity and stubbornness area real advantage
sometimes in the struggle for existence.” This is
rough on the Foreign-trade Press.
On dit that M‘llwralth will not resume the
Queensland Premiership. Moreheod doesn’t care
aoout eff icing himself, especially after doing all
the Opposition work of the last Assembly.
“ As weak, puerile, and heterogeneous a
lot of commoners as ever were by stress of circum-
stances manufactured in a Ministry ” is London
Referee's description of the present Salisbury
Government.
The N.S.W. Government propose to pur-
chase DarUng Island for £135,000. Will seme
member of Parliament be good enough to ascertain
who are the real owners of this property, and how
much was paid for it when last it changed hands
The N. S W. Ministry exists on sufferance
only. The Oppoaiti on can oust the Farkes party
whenever they think proper to make a test vote,
but they have wisely determined to wait a few
months longer to let the Protectionists organise
further.
It Is -rumoured that more than one leading
Queensland politician is hopelessly into Mount
Morgan and that the difference between £.lO and
£l5 is multiplied in their cases ten thousand
fold. Millionaire Pattison is master of the
situation.
Canada imposes a duly of 15 per cent on
books, but lets Bibles in at a lower rate. A large
chest of “ Bibles ” recently taken through the
Custom-house proved to be Mormon “ Bibles.”
The Customs authorities decided against their
oanonicity and remorsely levied the full tax.
The N.S.W. Government it appears spent
over £7OO in prosecuting colour-sergeant Webster
for the alleged embezzlement of some military
clothing. Webster s defence cost him over £7OO
in cash. Monstrous ! After this who will say
that professional soldiers and lawyers are not
parasites on the producer ?
In London alone there are 140 000 Ger-
mans, mostly waiters or clerks. They swarm,
too, in the great towns. The Queen has encouraged
this German invasion. Her Court officers are
filled with Germans; her children are married to
Germans ; and German is the language talked at
Court. The German waiters have a trades-union,
too, and the English waiters haven’t.
“ New-fangled, half-fladged strangers ”
was the not very complimentary phrase used by
old Jack Robertson at the Hawkesbury Bridge
opening when speaking of Mr. Eddy, the N.S W.
Cnief Commissioner for Railways, Yet the whole
of the surroundings must have pleased the old
knight, as the bridge was of foreign manufacture,
a foreign firm put it together, and foreigners
superintended the work.
Half the time of the N S.W. Minister of
Justice is now taken up with considering whether
he should not reduce, or remit altogether, mon-
strous and inhum an sentences passed on prisoners in
conformity with the provisions of the convict code
of N.S.W. The local statute book visits between
20 and 30 offences with the death-penalty and
prescribes the lash for about as many others, in-
cluding the defacing of a public building 1
They are asking Parnell if he was aware
that John Devoy, with whom he associated in
America, had threatened to murder the English
Ministers and burn the English cities. Politicians
associate with lots of people. Nobody asks Lord
Saliabui y w hether he is aware that his new protege,
Giaham Berry, threatened to burn down Mel-
bourne Government House and pack eff the
Governor. Yet ihe two cases are on all fours.
In Noumea one native out of every six Is
said to be a leper, the total being 4000 infected
wretches in a population of 25,000, all told. This
is a cheerful and pleasant average, and when it is
recollected that the Freetrade policy ofN.S.W.
gives these scaly gentlemen every possible en-
couragement to dump their unclean produce down
on the wharves of Sydney, a feeling of profound
joy ought to steal over the Australian people.
In Its miserable endeavour to discredit the
eloquen: apostles of Home Rule the Argus is
solemnly quoting from the Pope’s manifesto. Dur*
ing these last 20 years the Akgus has published
two_ miles of leading articles declaring that no
unbiassed opinion, no honest truth, nothing
worthy of serious attention, ever emanated from
the Vatican, The spectacle of Haddon falling
back upon the poor old Pope is disgusting rather
than pathetic.
Rev. Stacsy Chapman Informa the world
through the medium of the Sydney Church Con-
gress that Christ, “if He once more walked
amongst men, would not again advocate com-
munism,” That about settles the matter. Stacey’s
word is enough, or nearly enough. He would,
however, have put the subject beyond all posai-„
bility of doubt had he added that if Christ spoke
again so foolishly as He did when here last, he
(Stacey) would throw him over.
J. B. Patterson, who has just accepted
office in the Victorian Ministry, refused a port-
folio from Gillies three years ago. He has pro-
bably joined the Coalition Government now be-
cause David Gaunson, having been defeated at the
general election, is unable to assail him from the
Opposition benches. Patterson was always afraid
of Gaunson, who once made him cry on the floor
o! the Assembly. But Patterson is not the only
member who rejoices at Gaunson’s exclusion from
Parliament.
Since David Buchanan’s attempt In the
N.S. W. Legislative Council to pass a Bill to reduce
the number of jurymen in criminal erses, with the
object of securing more ready convictions, Sir
Alfred Stephen has taken several opportunities to
speak highly of the new Councillor’s mental
abilities Including Sir Alfred, only five members
voted with David for the second reading of that
Bill, but considering that David is comparatively
so young a man Sir Alfred sees a greas future in
store for him,
An English paper announces that Sir F.
Young, Vice-President of the Royal Colonial
Institute, is to visit the colonies shortly, and adds
--without the slightest shade of satire—“ Sir
Frederick’s persistent advocacy of the Imperial
cause will secure for him a warm reception in
whatever part of the British empire he may chose
to yi it.” Young, who Is a retired London copper-
smith, has never been in Australia in his life, but
he has travelled on “ ouah kawlines ” during
all his political life. He is a prim old-maidish
person of fifty-five.
The new Melbourne evening paper, the
Standard, is to be devoted to the propagation of
the Imperial Federation chimera. It believes
(that is to say, the dire3tors believe) the consoli-
dation of the Empire practicable and desirable ;
Dear Bulletin, —The United States hare
in the district of Columbia, of which Washington
is the capital, a non-political district—free from
all political influences and maintained, if I mis-
take not, partially from municipal rates, with
assistance from the general revenue. Why should
N.S. Wales not have something of the same kind,
and so force the Calico Jimmies away from their
warehouses, like country members, to a place
where all would be on a more level footing; or, if
not, why not disfranchise the County of Cumber-
land and make it non political if it be retained as
the capital? It produces nothing, therefore it
can suffer nothing. It depends entirely on the
country—let the country decide what to do with
it^r-JUJIBXICK.
Once again Ifc la gently whispered that
Parkes’ Attorney-General is ,to be moved up to
an easy place. He can’t fulfill Dan O’Connor’s
prophecy without a rest, by the way, and a plain
judgeship is therefore to ba provided at an early
date. Indeed, provision would be made sooner
only for the difficulty of getting a substitute to
advise the Government. When Parkes casts an
eye around with an invitation in the tail of it he
is met by a glassy stare from Reid’s one optic and
a stony glare from Want; he remembers that
Richard O’Connor has been keeping company
with the enemy of late, and that he hasn’t any
patent fees to give Majter Ringnose. All these
things prey on him, and he soliloquises : “ The
only man I can get for Simpson’s shoes is David
Buchanan. I’ll go slow.”
Mr. Carruthsrs, Minister for Pnbllc Ignor-
ance in N.S.W., has re-olved to tread in the foot-
steps of his talented predecessor, and leave the
teachers of the colony to clean out the ink-
spattered, mud-stamped school rooms at their own
expense. Which is good news for the poor pro-
visional school-teacher at £5 a month, who has to
pay 4s. out of that £5 to the superannuation fund,
expend 15s or £1 a week for board, keep herself
decently dressed, find the school in firewood, pay
for the cleaning of the Government properly, and
be happy on the balance of her lavish earnings. If
there is an artist extant who can paint the riot
that would ensue if Minister Carrubhers were re-
quired to run his office on this basis, and double
up his manly figure by scrubbing the departmental
floors, there is a great subject here awaiting him.
“ The mind’s the standard of the man,”
Ti?e poet’s words are strong and true,
We know the cute Australian
Will keep them well within his view,
And, if he does, the paper new
But little favour here will find,
For mind’s the paper’s standard, too,
And none can stand hard minus mipd.


The Same Old Mess of Pottage.
1/ /y/y///*//_///////
si^%


iif uni
C^ :
(/ '
b e I
rrw ■
i
7=>lA.VAr/OA/£
A Sa/Upef/p fa /jfafc
-A CO/ 'P cC< >firs X /e
7A* '?*- esC a A e o/*J'?€C Je-yeraTltC 6
Ut< z/u7 / /po />ocj e - 7£ x 0
y e^V^Co,/.^
yiyf°s *>>?/
y y
b* rS I '
r f *
l J '
yy
y j f
\IA
<y
A /
(A (*1
r J. 1
r ¥ r /
's'l'V’t r
THE SPERROW AND RABBIT PESTS IN
VICTORIA.
Melbourne, Thursday. Great complaints
ate made at Aroca m connection with the
spat-row nuisance and me shire council is dis-
tributing poisoned grain.
_ /%/Jope.cC
<s/>«tcc£, £>/' //■ fj£/jcC a.?} Tfofo- S~a~jp3r
Cop c.Cc*.e. ,^~gu To” <2,l^X
y S V
(J* * ,
{'V J. / <T
wv ■ s^ 1! '% l ", * V 4°
V*'-’
>V./
Vv 1
C O' o
v- v. e>.
c- <s>
v. - o
\v\\
\ VV*
°, •> -b b
%
i%V\
\\\\
\ *
JTt /s £S-ea.y/y £&/ 24rtct-
/(yfos-e- A>refy
oC Zfrp/z&r-/aJ /&<*.&7-0-Z/e. p CL cup
dts-e.,' £e. P-e.Q,?/sfLc.C -*»"«■ s-jo.??
/cl*- CL ZT fie?s Cc7or,/*l (f°^'
4 7-?7 >- op
7t/f Two J^oVa/s
7i</ n /''/
7vj'^ / ce / yacc yeTjfr unp //o*ye ovy ayba-p Aclc/c
&-pu T!//ye,£y y& TtTT >?<*.£> T
T'etryfrej /r> ' 'f' Se '’/ S' f/ /HsoqcCe?- £cfo/~ O/cC
XT** x */ V* "tce^yof
V s / * ** &*■
« ?*>-%. - "ffy ,y-^Z 9 * PtaSTfr-
° *- fees £*/- .
e £?-<z//) if ye*
J A: /)y 4, / *
ThingsThings in General.


H
IV. H. PALING & Co., Ltd., 356 George Street, Sydney,
AVF iuat opened a magnificent lot of NEW PIANOS from the Celebrated Makers, STEINWAY, ERiRD, UEBEL, FENRIOH, LTPP, RONISOH, BLUTHN
OOLLARD and others ; also of the wonderful VICTOR pianos at £45, and ESTEY ORGANS No soon variety ob value elsewhere fob oash ob terms.
Society
There ia already trouble In more than one
Sydney clnb over proposals to make the Irish
delegates honorary members during their stay in
N.S.W. A protest against their admission to the
Reform Club has been signed by thirteen members
of that very high-toned institution, who want to
know why “ these fellows ” should be foisted on
them. Sydney is famous for this kind of thing-
When a lunatic who had shot the Duke of Edin-
burgh was placed on trial for his life the members
of Sydney’s most exclusive club —some of whom,
if they had run their pedigrees back a generation
or two would have been brought up with a skull-
cracking j olt against the hull of the Red Rover-
refused to admit as an honorary member Mr.
Aspinall, Q.O , on the ground that he had taken a
brief to defend a man guilty of high treason.
* * -
After waiting patiently for three years In
anticipation of the long-heralded departure of the
ordinary, colonial grown, two-storied bustle, the
VicttorianGovernmentbas determinedto accelerate
i s removal by establishing a depot at Wodonga,
for the inspection of all improvers heading from
Sydney to Melbourne overland. An efficient staff
of female investigators has been laid on, and in
future the lady Freetrader who wants to avoid the
duty on a clutch of chickens, a cheese, York bams,
pie-melons, garden stuff, tin-ware, old lace, grind-
{tones, jewellery, Wellington boots, cheap Sydney
gloves, and stud sheep will have to find another
repository for the commodities than that gabled
projection pointing due North when she faces the
frozen South. We presume each “improver
passed by the Customs officials will receive the
customary O.K. chalk-mark, but have no authority
for the assertion :
A certain Australian Governor delights
in relating to his familiars a little story con-
nected with Government House hospitality.
At a certain ball not long ago a rich and vulgar
old creature in black satin and diamonds who had
gurgled five or six glasses of gubernatorial fizz
down her massive neck, sidled up to H.E. with—
“ And ’ow does yer hexcellency like the colonies
by this time.” His Excellency, as in duty bound,
immediately stated that he was falling deeper in
love with them every day of his existence.
Then the old lady remarked that the colonies were
all right enough for four or five years if a pusson
wanted to save tome money and gel things in
order agin his goin’ ’ome agin. I ope, yer
hexcellency, we shall all be gom ome agm to-
gether soon. We've done pretty well Wave
been here nigh on 40 years. I 'o pe that when we
do go ’ome we’ll see somethink of yer hexcellency.
I’m sure Lady Johnson (“her hexcellency ) will
be a great friend of mine. I’m certain she’s very
fond of me, because she always smiles so friendly
whenever we meets.” And then tha Guvnah re-
marked that he had seen Sydney Harbour and it
was indeed a beautiful place.
* * *
When poor old Governor Loftns had com-
pleted his term in N.S.W., and was bracing him-
self up for an interview with his English creditors,
he induced the Government of the day to purchase
from him a terrible old shandrydan of a State
carriage. When Lord Carington arrived he
scouted the idea of riding about in such a machine,
and had it cleared out of Government House
stables, and for the past three or four years it has
been ingloriously stowed away in a coaohbuilder s
shed. One of the Sydney papers suggests that
the rusty white elephant—if one may mix matters
thus—should be presented so some South Sea
Island monarch to add to his dusky pomp and
circumstance. The Bulletin, however, is quite
sure that none of the island royalties would appre-
ciate the gift. Some years ago a carriage was
presented by the N.B.W. Government to King
Thakombau, of Fiji, and the very first time it was
used several of the royal house of Fiji took the
measles, a disease which subsequently spread far
and wide amongst the islands and killed off hun-
dreds It was pretty certain that the germs of
the disease had been brought from Sydney in the
carriage, which was thereafter carefully avoided
by all the Fijian*, from the king down to the lean-
est and meanest of his subjects. The once mag-
nificent vehicle was finally sold at auction for 30a.,
and now belongs to a Suvan hotel-keeper, who
drives a blind hone in it.
• * *
He was a tall gentleman with a distln-
gnlshed air, a name compiled from back numbers
of the London Journal, and the ability to talk
the ears off a sheaf of corn. He came from out
the outer darkness and was living on his luck and
faring extremely well. He flashed upon Mel-
bbtlrne “ sassiety ” a few years ago, burned Vividly
for about six months, and then extinguished his
light and slid into oblivion, leaving everybody
with whom he had been thrown in contact Very
much the worse for the collision. His cheek wfti
his most conspicuous feature—it was fine and
large And equal to any emergency, however
tough. He was a practical joker, too, and
did not hesitate to play it “ low down ”
on the Very fust families. Happening to be at a
ffUhionaole gathering at the ** boney ” suburban
residence of A city merchant, and being urgently
pressed to oblige with a piano solo, he kindly con-
touted He was reputed to be a musician of pro-
nounced ability, but, as a matter of fact, hi didn’t
knoW enough abofib melody to flog the drum at a
dheap circus. However, he seated himself at the
instrument with the air of a master, and started
to bang ths key-bostd promiscuou ly, rooting up
tlie note that came handiest, regardless of conse-
quences. When he was tired he arose, hewed,
and said : “ A little thing of mv own, ladies and
gentlemen.” Everybody was delighted and loud
in their praise, especially the ladies, who actually
wanted more ; but the gifted musician excused
himself with the plea that the piano was out of
tune, and next day tha lady of ths house had an
artist in to doctor it on his recommendation. Of
such is the “oulchawed” crowd that patronise
exhibition concerts, and try to look inspired with
rapture thereat.
* * *
How much “ shortage.’' we wonder,
would be overlooked in the N.S.W. Permanent
Artillery Fores ia the case of an officer of high
rank and pay if a deficit of £9 odd brought a non-
com. to such signal smash as the unhappy Warrant-
Officer Webster, who, after spending all his money
in defending himself before a cumbersome court,
has had to sell even his life-assurance policy to pay
A SPORTING OFFER.
REGISTRY- OFFICE TERROR: "IF YEZ’LL AGRAY TO INTERDOOCE ME TO
YER GUESTS AS YER NAICE I'LL COOM FER TIN BOB A-WAKE!'
the balance of the enormous legal fees ? What
in a “ swell ” would be a venial fault is in the
private a crime necessitating degradation to the
ranks and 12 months’ hard labour.
•
A few weeks since an overcrowded tram-
car, proceeding to Waverley, Sydney, was entered
by a big man dressed In the garb of an ecclesiastic,
whose get-up proclaimed him a leading light. All
the seats were occupied, so, as no one volunteered
to stand, a leg-of-mutton hand seized a very little
girl—who was travelling unprotected—by the arm,
and lifted her on to her legs, thereby making
room, malgri-bongre, for his own burly 18-stone
self. “Of course he suffered the little one to get
on his knee,” you will say. Not he :he allowed
the child to stand, merely grunting a half “Thank
you ! ” to the man opposite him who—professing
nothing—took the youngster up. Of such is the
Kingdom of Heaven.
* * *
A couple more cases of threatened criminal
prosecution arising out of the local manufacture
of spirits and the forging of labels and capsules
to accompany same, have, The Bulletin hears,
been amicably squared in Sydney during the last
fortnight on paymen of heavy amounts.
• • *
The Comprehenslonal Association of Lon-
don has published a book of new Ideas, One new
idea is “ a comprehensive inblendment _of the
media for language and numeration, with the
capability for recognition of each respective dis-
linctuity.” We recommend Oarington to join
this Association.
• • •
Dearly beloved brethren, do you eat
sausages ? If so, it may interest you to learn that
a Sydney batcher the other day was only choked
off by the utmost rigour of the law from making
some two or three hundredweight of frightfully
decayed animal into these toothsome eatables ;
and probably, while the law was choking him off,
some 20 or 25 butchers in various parts of the city
were busy chopping up the old horse that had. died
from natural causes, and the pig that had perished
b? the visitation of Providence, and the consump-
tive cow, and the putrid goat, and the heifer
which had shut down from slow hibernal decay,
and the old dog Tray, and the aged, tough, stringy
“ pretty cocky ” from the adjacent yard, and con-
verting them into the finest iriinoed and
Sewing them up in bigs to pass on to an intelligent
public. There is a calm, quiet resting-place inside
thesaU age f r the victim of many earthly cares
and the derelict of many storms In the
into dor of that skin envelope there is balm in
Gilead fcD the trodden on pussy-cat with the
knotty tail; there is rest for the ’possum and the
craithorhynchus, and nepenthe for the tired-out
mule that used bo rUu in the four-horse omnibus,
and the cockroach gats in on h'S own account and
comes to grief. And still the sausage industry
prospers and the greasy white cifizan eats a pound
and a-half of them at supper and is quite surpiised
when he finds himself dead shortly afterwards.
Should an official attend a bill to which
the host has pointedly omitted to invite that
officials wife ? That is the question in Sydney
just now.
* ® •
What does this (from the E. News) mean?
WANTED, a Minted Man to MIND a Lamb.
Apply, &c.
There is a tough contract now for a full-grown,
moral, white Christian citizen. Man wanted to
mind a lamb! What next? “Trained athlete
required to Buperintend a cockroach,” we suppose,
is what will follow. “College graduate required
at once to act as dry nurse to a tame hsh !
Musical person can have good salary and corn-
fortable home In exchange for his services m
bringing up a pet gohmner !’’ Great Ceeiar !
• * *
An American compinyfproposeß to furnish
free tombstones to those who cannot afford to pay
for them, the company, however, reserving the
right to advertise on same.
• * *
la a recent paragraph touching the gor-
geous nuptials of the Duke and Duchess of New-
castle, we dimly suggested that the “stately
young bride looked “ very depressed ” because she
was about to take to her arms a sickly, undersized
gentleman, whose real and personal estate ic-
oiuied one cork leg. The par., written in all
seriousness and wetted with tears of sympathy,
seems justified by a cable report that the poor
young Duke has already separated from his new-
made wife We may expect to hear shortly that
the noble benedict Is suing for restitution of con-
jugal rights, for common sense atsumes ihat the
separation is chiefly on the lady’s side. Perhaps
she pinched the cork leg in a playful, kit;ecey,
honeymoon sort of way, and was disgusted to find
that her legal lord remained utterly indifferent to
the soft endearment. Which reminds us that
when we were a schoolboy one of the ushers had a
cork leg. He used to pace up and down the class-
room while our alleged studies were going on, and
a boy seated at the north end would communicate
with his chum at the south end by pinning a
message to the master’s cork leg, from which the
communication was duly detached upon reachu g
its destination. One morning a new scholar, who
rashly concluded that both legs were cork, stuck
his correspondence into the wrong one. Tnere
was a sudden exclamation, denoting pain and
suffering. Then the usher discovered that he was
a walking pillar-box, and we all uttered exclama-
tions denoting more pain and suffering than ever.
• •
A certain Australian weekly, with preten-
tions to be fully in the swim, puts church Services
and sermons under the heading of “ S jcial Gossip.”
Taat is plai icg it very low down on those who be-
ll -,VO in Sheol.
♦ * *
The arrest of a couple of Melbourne Uni-
versity students recently, upon a charge of
“insulting behaviour,” which the police relin-
quished wiabout a struggle, reminds us of an
historical incident that occurred at Bartholomew’s
Hospital, London, some fifteen years ago. A
crowd of young sawboneses were snowballing
among themselves within the hospital grounds,
when a badly-aimed lump of frozen rain went over
the wall and descended in the public thorough-
fare. Thereupon a verdant policeman, with
official frenzy in Lis eye, stalked open the scene
and ordered the students to cease firing. Two
hundred snowballs hit him round about bis helmet,
whereupon the msjssty cf the law withdrew.
He cams back with a reinforcement of
four, and piooeeded to make arrests. The
students pelted the fresh detachment out of
the grounds merely, but laid hold of the
original autocrat and rolled him in a heap of
beautiful snow previous to slinging him off the
premises Cold and dripping, he returned with
t welve preservers of the peace, including a full
ssrgeant. The students permitted the enemy to
march right in, and then roll'd all the 13 in
saowss before. The full sergeant and his force
sorrowfully departed with cold crystals in their
ears to fetch Alderman Walerlow, cna of the hos
pittal trustees. Old Waterlow harangued the In-
surgents, who premised not to throw another
snowball over the wall, provided the 13 tres-
passers cleared out instanter. Bo the police went
to dry themselves, and the amusing little incident
terminated. The moral of this story appears to
be that the young Australian is more law-abiding
and easily governed than a lot of other people.
* • •
List jew one Sydney mother out of every
!)2 gave birth to twins ; there were no triplets,
bub Sb. Peber’s broughb forbh a quartette—one boy
and three girls.
• e •
Looking over the N S.W. marriage statis-
tics for the past year we find that 72 bridegrooms
and 6(34 brides were under age ; 214 bachelors
married widows ; 100 widows and widowers were
united; five bachelors married five divorced women
(that’s generally the way) ; one widower risked
miming a divorced woman ; four divorced men
married as many spinsters (which is also usually
the way) ; and two divorced men married widows.
May Heaven have mercy on all their souls 1
» •
A young man of Brighton (Vic.) gave as
Ms reason for attempted suicide the other day
that his sweetheart had been nagging at him.
Such a man must contemplate death with far less
concern than matrimony. (
The coronet’s jury found that Captain
Parsons was “accidently killed by bricks falling
on him at the fire at the Bijou Theatre.” They
couldn’t say that the poor fellow died in the gal-
lant discharge of his duty, seeing that he fella
victim to disobeying orders. The other young
man threw away his life in an irrational attempt
to drag an empty hose across a glass roof, and the
catastrophe altogether revealed such disorganisa-
tion in the Melbourne system of fire fighting that it
may lead to “something being dene” immediately.
Somethin g ought to be done. We know a man
who sat placidly smoking a cigar in an office of a
building situated very near Melbourne Post office,
all the time that edifice was supposed to be blaz-
ing away at the back. Nobody warned him. The
occupants of the office immediately overhead were
preparing to descend from the front window per
fire escape, but our friend smoked on until he
casually opened the door. Then a flood of light
fell upon the subject, and he fled down the stair-
case, where a lot of firemen were fooling about
with a hose. “ Toe place is on fire,” says he.
“ Yes,” said the firemen, “why didn’t you get
cub of ib before —are there any more people in the
offices ? ’ The man, who might have been burnt
to a cinder for want cf a timely pebble thrown at
his window, told the muddle-headed meddlers to
look for themselves, and felt that he was saved
from what might have been cremation by his own
unaided exertion?.
; • *
Up at Port Darwin (N T.) the telegraph
department employs a Chinese boy to deliver
dispatches. As he cannot read English he offers
half a dozen or more telegrams to the first ad-
dressee he visits to take his pick from.
« * *
“ How does the new girl strike you V
asked a citizen at dinner lately. “ She hasn’t
struck me yet,” answered the wife meekly; “but
she has done almost every thing else.”—Exchange.
• * # •
This Is how a gallant defender of man’s
rights settled the question of woman’s suffrage at
a public delate in the schoolhouse at Tumbulgum:
“ Ladies and gentlemen,—What was woman made
for, and w-w-whatwis m-ma-ma-man made for 7
G-g-god created Adam first and p-p put him in
the G-g-garden of Eden. Then he made Eve and
put her there too. If he hadn’t c c cr-created Eve
there never would have been all the s-s-sin there
is now in the world If he hadn’t made Eve she
never would have picked the apple and given it to
Adsmtoeat. WhatdoosSb P-p paul say in his
epistles ? Doesn’t he say that womenx*uould keep
still ? Besi i es, ladies and gentlemen, women could
nrt exercise the suffrage. I d d-defy any man to
point oub a woman in this country that could
refuse a vote to a handsome man who was re-re c-c-
-c mmende dby the parson Would a woman turn
out and canvass for a candidate ? If he was good-
looking, ten to one she’d elope with him.” The
chivaltic orator sat down among shrieks of laughter,
but the widow who keeps the hotel and the old
maid who runs the boarding-house think they can
in settle bis views in spite of the verdict.
Taus the Argus on the lamentable burning
of the Bijou Theatre—“lt was a wild scene,
which might reason ably have been expected to
have given birth to more tragedy than has so far
been recorded.” The writer’s chagrin at the
scarcity of charred human remains and similar
The bustle still is all the go,
Tho’ long it has been going,
But now the indications show
The time of its o’erthrowing,
And lovely woman soon, we trow,
Will reformation undergo.
The die is cast, and, dame, you may
Your bustle now as well burn :
The thing was going many a day—-
But only on to Melbourne.
Ah ! sacrifice the thing, we pray,
Its occupation’s gone away.
’Twas e’er a paradox, we vow,
How’t biggest seemed, departing ;
Of course we thought not to allow
We did but see it starting.
Howe’er to Customs you must bow,
And utilise your bonnet now.
The time is up, Victoria’s “Jack,”
Your little game’s exploded.
The reason’s plain enough, alack !
You always overloaded.
Think not your sin may ’scape attack,
E’en if ’tis done behind your back.


THE SYDNEY DEPOSIT AND DIS-
COUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambebs, 90 Kino Street.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual Banking Business transacted.
The following are the rates of interest allowed
for FIXED DEPOSITS
•3 years 9i per cent.
12 months per cent.
6 months per cent.
3 months per cent.
For the past three years a Bonus of ONE PER
CENT, has been paid in addition to the above
rates.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON, General Manager
For Indigestion
USB lIORSFORD ,S ACID PHOSPHATE,
Dr. Robert Pollok Simmons, M.R.C.S , Soarboro Ene-
says: “ I have used it with marked benefit in a case of
indigestion of mar y years standing, and it proved very
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
as ssusi
necessaries for ghostly “ copy ” is quite pathetic.
He evidently wrote under a deep sense of personal
wrong, having gone to the wild scene in the ex-
pectation of beholding long tongues of lurid flame
licking a writhing mass of shrieking men and
women, whereas nothing of the kind met his eye.
Under those circumstances the Attaua reporter
ought to have furnished a blood-curdling account
of what he reasonably expected.
• * *
lb is stated that a certain Sydney clergy-
man who is an enthusiastic denouncer of bublifc-
Hbuses only owns three in one of the suburbs.
Speaking of Mrs. Gordou-BallUe, the Mel-
bourne Herald now describes her as “a loud
and vulgar woman of medium height, perfumed
with strange essences that failed to smother the
fact that the cosmetic that brought so much colour
to her cheek was mountain dew.'’ In other words
it states that she wai a loud-mouthed washer-
woman who smelt of drink and peppermint But,
all the same, when the adventurous lady was in
her glory, the Herald interviewed her and gushed
la a column of welteung bosh about her obvious
blue blood, her ouloure, her stately mien, and her
winning manners, and if there was any drink
about her then it didn’t smell it. Perhaps the
Herald bad a cold in its mind’s nose in these days.
♦ *
In Frante, Germany, Austria, and even
America, policemen, when getting the worst of it
in a row, are allowed to resort to firearms. The
Australian policeman, if let use his feet, envies
none of these.
• • •
A dream of a fashionable fat woman, aa
viewed ia tin ballroom where the 16 stone mound
of feminine humanity crashes round on the flat,
fantastic pile-driver t
Her waist was like that of a sylph of 18 (when they are
sylphs), and one hjd to make a careful search far it
amidst the surrounding acres. Her face was so flashed
that one felt prepared for apoplexy, and she eat on the
extreme edge of the seat. To have saved her immortal
soul—or back—she could not have made herself comfort-
able even according to the limitations cf the modern
street-oar. And yet no human inducement, I suppose,
would main her let her waist out She had got her waist
and she was happy ; the rest oould go. This is in public ;
but one could amuse themselves drawing a picture of the
lady as she fled to the privacy of her drtseing-room upon
her arrival home, tearing off the whalebones, donning a
loose wrapper, and sinking into an easy chair with a
silent but heartfelt sigh of thankfulness for the faob that
torture was over for two or three hours to oome.
Thera is room here for another Dante to write
about the Inferno that the fashionable fat woman
goes to—the placa of desolation where she has to
dress in brown potato-sacks and hava a waist two
yards in circumference, and be an everlasting
wallflower in a ball that never ends, with no one
to take her down to the refreshment-room. And
there, through the whole of a long eternity, she
can have a ceaseless pimple on her nose and her
hair can be always coming down, and she can sit
unnoticed and uncared for except when once in a
thousand years a hanged murderer who can’t
dance invites her to take part in a waltz where
every dancer is old and haggard and adorned with
a wooden leg. If there is a Sheol for the fat
women with the 20-inch waist a Sieol like this
would just fill the bill.
• * m
A Sydney advfc. :
SEVERAL Generals required for good places, wages
10s., 125., 14s. Herald and Tblboraph, Oowper-
street, Waverley.
This is rather a come down after they have been
receiving £6OO per annum with quarters, ration of
provisions, fuel and light, forage for two horses,
and £lOO for stabling Possibly, also, they will
now be expected to know something “cf their own
knowledge ” when an elaborate farce of a court-
martial requires their evidence.
• a m
There seems to be a dreadful sameness
about princes all the world over. A few month t ago
a British traveller found his way to Corea, and
was introduced to the monarch who rules in the
Land of the Morning Calm. The monarch him-
self was a moderately respectable specimen of
humanity, but his son and heir was a representa-
tive prince of the modern epileptic type, and his
appearance made the visitor sit up :
I was presented to the Crown Prinoe, a fl.bby-facjd
youth of about nineteen, bloat 3d with dissipation, turning
helplessly to two hoirible eunuchs who stood beside him
for what he should say to us, bobbing up and do wn and
almost slobbering in his pitiable physical nervousness—a
dreadful object, more fit, so far as looks go, to occupy a
seat in an asylum for idiots than a throne.
The jovial, podgy little monarch lately sent a curt
message to the Chines a Emperor stating that he
was darned if he would pay tribute any more, and
the great Mongul merely observed, “Alice li! ’
However, there will probably be war over the
question some day, and then the Crown Prince
will slobber with his two eunuchs at the head of
the army, and supply the world with a new illus-
tration of the divinity which hedgeth in a crown.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It Is the greatest success of the
age.
For civility, comfort, and all the luxuries
of a really first-class establishment, the Grand
Hotel, Wynyard-square, cantot be surpassed. It
is supplied with splendid billiard-rooms, elegant
suites of apartments, and unrivalled liquors, and
is fitted up with every appliance invented by
modern civilisation to make life pleasant. The
cuisine is second to none ine Sydney, and no effort
is spared to make the patr ons of the Grand Hote
thoroughly oomfortabe
Aboriginalities.
Soene : Giacoyne (West Australia) police
court. Bob Mao Neill summoned by the Scab
Inspector for having scab among his sheep and not
reporting same. Bob made his bow at bhe court
before the local grocer, the only J.P. in bhe dis-
trict (bar one, who was a hundred mi'es away)
: Pull off yer hat, sir! How dare you
enter a court of justice in so disrespectful a man-
j : V BO6 you d—d first I I've got
a bad cold, an I ain’t agoin’ to have it made wuss
In such a ricketby shop as this, wi)h the wind
plowin all round the corners of the room ” Bsak :
„ £ re ,y°u going to pull off yer hat or no ?” Bob :
, _,® 0a k : “Policeman Turner, off with his
« >'j Turner : “ Now, then, Bob, pull yer hat
°°‘u : ‘Nob if I knows it, B:ll, and I
wouldnt advise you to try it either.” Bak :
Are you going to pall his hat off, policeman?”
P.O. : No; he might go for me.” This ended
the case. The defendant was fined £lOO and all
his sheep were ordered to strict quarantine Bob
retire 1 swearing.
• • •
Dear Bulletin, —I know a bushman, a
thorough man and tit company for anyone. He
is factotum on a station owned and managed by
the brother-in-law of a celebrated sportsman, now
airing himself among the ’ooraoies at home. At
the station this pseudo-swell would come down to
Jaok-the-Man’s hub every evening and smoke
Jacks tobacco. He would even condescend ti
u 1 j One exhibition time Jack had
the duty and pleasure, ai well as honour, of con-
ducting the lady of the station to Sydney by rail
and steamboat. The brother met them on bhe
"FRUITS" OF THE CONGRESS.
FIRST SHEPHERD : "Well, brother, how do you feel after the church congress?
Don’t you feel like a "giant " refreshed with new wine? ”
2ND DITTO : "Well, if a giant refreshed with new wine feels like a pair of helioses
with holes punched in them, I thick I do ? I’ve not a breath of wind left!”
wharf and did not even nod to Jack, bub let him
manage the luggage and the cab business. When
the ladv was seated her brother was about to steo
in but Jack was handy with “ Thanks, this is my
cib Petoy’s hotel, cabby;” and the snub and
reproof were complete, for tbe lady is a lady and
knows a thing or two. I write to ask if you re-
cognise one of the parties? - Scotty the Wkinklek
• ,
Dear BclxetjN,— Your correspondent,
“Hiram Abiff. ” whose military reminiscences
have so long delighted us, has been tpreading him-
self on the subject of the Australian bushman. I
do not intend to follow “Hiram” Into the mys-
teries of bush medicines, patent or otherwise, for
as he informs us that he has vended them (his own
make, too), he should know more about that par-
ticular weakness of the Australian bushman than
I, who have never dabbled in the art. Your
correspondent states that “the Australian bush-
man has an old song-book for his breviary,
paternoster, and decalogue,” and refuses to
believe that stinginess is the reason why
so few of them subscribe to a newspaper
or purchase novels. Now, if he alludes to the
Australian native bushman, as I presume he does,
I venture to assert that five out of every six are
net buyers simply because they are unable to read,
and the sixth is too stingy to buy them and too
hopelessly dense to understand them if they were
given to him. I have often heard it said that
“The Bulletin is the bushman’s bible,” and, so
far as the majority of bushmen are concerned
(who, by the way, are not eligible for the A.N. A ),
that statement is a solid truth; but the native
bushman who can read rarely soars above the
literary pabulum provided by the stock reports
and the records of prize fights and boat races and
recipes for whitewashing hencoops. Compared with
him even the dull Hodge of rural England is as
entertaining as a Gaiety show. The native rarely
travels out of the district in which he was born,
except for a shearing trip, and if he cannot get a
job on an adjacent station, he will poster about on
his own, or a relative’s selection, and fill in his
spare time by snaring ’possums. He tak?s no in-
terest in the affairs of his country, cares little and
knows less about what is going on in Parliament,
and fails to enthuse over anything blab can’t be
ear marked or branded. If you depend upon the
bush branches of bhe A.N. A. to repel a Chinese
invasion it strikes me very forcibly that you’ll find
yourselves ‘‘left,” Take my advice and call out
the kangaroo-shooters, who are for the most part
Anglo Australians, good shots, good bushmen,
and, above all, enthusiastically Australian.—
Yours truly, The Bullet.
“ Jeogla,” Woliombi, Armidale.
* #
Dear Bulletin, —I notice in your issue of
last week some remarks anent evidence of “ex-
perts ”in law-courts. Old Judge Dowling had a
story about “ expert ” evidence which he used to
tell on the slightest provocation. A case was
heard bafore him which turned on the question of
whether or not the signature to a certain document
was genuine S -me letters were obtained bearing
undoubtedly genuine signatures, and the manager
of one of the Sydney banks went into bhe box to
give evidence as an expert. He pronounced the
alleged document a forgery. He could not give
coherent reason?, but said that there was a
“ character ” about the writing which to the eye of
an expert was unmistakeable At this stage the
other side’s barrister handed in a lot of
signatures purporting to be those of the
man who had signed the letters, and asked
the banker to pick out tbe genuine signatures
from the forged ones. The banker pua on his
spectacles, sported his linen, examined the signa-
tures, and went through them confidently, laying
some on one side as “ genuine,” others on the
other side as “ forged.” Then the barrister rose
and informed him that every single one of those
signatures had been written in court, in the
Judge’s presence, by an attorney’s clerk, who was
a clever penman. The “ expert ” collapsed, and
for ever afterwards, during old Dowling’s regime, it
was a hopeless business putting “expert’’evidence
before him. He is gone now, and Fitzhardinge
and M’Farland reign in bis stead. The lawyers
used to growl at old Dowling with his unreason-
able jests and attempted witticisms, but many of
them are beginning to remember the fable of the
frogs, who had a log for a king, and who prayed
for a morelively potentate and got a stork who lived
on frogs. Better the devil you know than the
devil you don’t know,— O. Gammon.
•
The biggest Idiot of the season has come
to light at a quartz mine near Goldsborough
(Vic ) He is said to be tall and lumbering and an
artist with the plough When applying for a job
as faoeman this slop-built, Dutch-rigged agricul-
tural mule, grown in country parts where pota-
toes spring up and onions bloom and blow, pre-
sented a letter of introduction from an influential
director describing him as a practical miner of
many years’ standing and recommending him as a
fit and proper party to swing a pick in a shaft,
drive, “ jump up.” winze, or any other difficult in-
tricacy of a gold mine. The great clump-footed
bog-trotter was accepted in good faith and told to
go on. Happening to be on the surface a few
hours later, the manager sent him over to the
township for half-a-dczm drills He went
to a draper’s shop and came shambling
back in due time with six yards of drill—
the stuff bed sheets are made of. The manager
then staggered to a seat, and swore till his throat
was sore, whilst the galoot poised himself uneasily
on one fodb, and wondered what he’d done and
when he did it. He was sent below again, and
pub bo work by himsdf in a drive, bo open onb a
cross-cut. The boss of bhe shift) looked him up at
aboub three o’clock, and drew his abbention to bhe
fact that he would need to pub some more bimber
in before knocking off, as the ground was unre-
liable. Next morning two or three tons of stuff
had come away. The bcss was mad ; he charged
down upon the galoot, and called him all kinds of
hogs and animals, and wanted to know why the
b.ank, blank, blank, etcetera, he had nob pub that
timber in. “ Well, yez moind,” said bhe practical
miner, with the air of a man who felt he had done
his duty, ‘‘l druv wan av thim tin pinny spolks in
—be jabez they oughter hould a house up I” He
had tried to nail up the hanging-wall with a gad.
He has again turned his attention bo the agricul-
tural interest.
A well known Victorian sonatter Is going
in for a cavalry regiment. One of the fads
of a member of his family was a tower or look-
out he had built on his estate. This structure
was about 70ft. or 80ft. high with steps all round
it, and on the summit was mounted a powerful
telescope. His morning’s work consisted of racing
up to the top five or six times before dinner ; when
he got there he had a clear view allround for a
radius of ten miles, it being very level and open
country. When he happened to sight a shepherd
shading himself from the heat of the sun nnder a
she-cak tree he would descend the structure like a
streak of greased lightning and make for the
stable where he had a horse always ready saddled.
Then he would mount and make for the place
with all speed, and on getting within a few hun-
dred yards of the sleeping shepherd he would dis-
mount and tie his horse up and then go along and
pounce down on him and talk to him in the lan-
guage of the ancient prophets. Like most station
hands, the shepherd would stand all the old man
gave him The squatter aforesaid usually didal Ithe
bossing among the servant girls, bat he at last
got one (an Irishwoman, of course) who was a
match for him. One day he raced into the lann
dry and told the laundress not to use so much
adjective starch and blanky blue, &c. She said
nothing at the time, but a few weeks afterwards
the great annual sheep show of the district was to
be held, and the show being located only a few
miles from our friend’s station, all the neighbour-
ing squatters used to fetch their stock to his place
the night before the show, and put their exhibits
in his drafting-yard. On the morning of the show
all the big guns were up seeing to their stock, old
mai * being with them—when who should
make her appearance but the laundress. After
mounting the highest post in the yard and
making due inquiries for her master, who, of
course, went straight over to her, all the others
following him under the impression that some-
thing seiious had occurred at the house, old
Jumbuck asked her what the blank she wanted
him for. She said she wanted to know if she was
to pat any starch in the Missuses’ clothes? The
rest can be imagined.
• • •
The Monnt Perry (Q.) copper-mines are
once more at a standstill. The drunkenness of
speculation has given the home market a pain in
the head, and the price offered per ton now would
not pay for raising the ore to the surface. Hence
Captain Bennett, who for long years has fought
for Mount Perry as the Switzer fought for his
mountain home, has to let his men wander. Will
it be as when the mines stopped some years ago’
Will the men try to fly by moonlight and will
storekeepers and publicans head them on horse-
back in the night, and holding revolvers in their
faces order them to cash up or return ’ Or has
Mount Perry had itself since then called within
the fold of law and order ?
IS IRRIGATION A FAILURE?
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
.Tis sundown at the station—the cook has rung the
bell,
The hands go to the kitchen one by one,
And yonder horseman riding right straight up to
the house
Is a bmnd’ry rider “come in ” from the run.
“ Theße ‘wo men that are waiting ? ” Ob, they are
not working here,
They’re swagmen or sundowners, which you may
lie ever pleased to call them. They have come
upon a tramp
Of twenty-five or thirty miles to-day.
They are waiting now for “ rations a paltry
measure doled
.. 4 y n q u a^ erst 0 the Be Sff«rs of the Land.
WeH, he s very good to give it! " Yet still, my
English friend,
Thats something that you cannot understand.
“ But these men drink their wages ! ” Well, sup-
pose we grant it so—
-8 a * one one reason of the few
lhat the squatters have on hand if you ask them
why it is
That men remain as lowly as they do.
Consider this—those drunkards are the squatters
best of friends
’ l“ aB “iuoh as drink will always keep them down,
And keep their heads from thinking—that’s why
squatters and why banks
Can hold all this vast country as their own.
1 or the squatter sits in Parliament, and sometimes
on the Bench,
And often tries a ease that is his own i
Ue holds the Land and Money-and, therefore,
comes his right,
And great withal his influence has grown,
'•••••*
But somehow, Friend, I think some day will come
a change
When men must starve or live within our Land
ay rt * e ? n Revolution—it may he done by Law.
Tis coming to us nearer ; for a band
Of men are thinking—watching— only waiting for
the hour
When bravely they will strike with fearless hand
A heavy blow for Freedom and a fairer state of
things,
KWhen man shall of his fellow-man demand
His Birthright and his Country—if not granted
then will take
His Own—from these the spoilers of the Land !
V.X.F.


PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
LAST DAYS
of
POMPEII.
PHILLIP PARK.
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
GRAND ERUPTION OP
MOUNT VESUVIUS.
TsitBiKNDOus Buildings Overthrown.
Molten lava plowing through
THE STREETS OF POMPEII.
CITIZENS IN TERROR AND CONSTERNATION.
300 AUXILIARIES
THE MAMMOTH STAGE.
Superb Costumes.
Git And processions.
A triumph of
S?YROTEOHNICAL ART
Never before witnessed
IN SYDNEY.
COUNTRY VISITORS
ON
J3b not fail to visit
THIS WONDERFUL SPECTACULAR AND
PYROTECHNIC AL DISPLAY.
In addition there will be given a display of
GORGEOUS FIREWORKS.
SPECIAL ATTR ACTIONS.
In addition,
THIS GREAT MAMMOTH SHOW
will include
ST. LEON’S CRYSTAL PALACE CIRCUS.
The whole being
THE GREATEST EASTER PROGRAMME
ever presented at
MILLION PRICES,
2s and 1?.
Special Reserved Seats to accommodate Ladies and
Children at 3i,
The grounds will be lighted by
POWERFUL ELECTRIC LIGHTS
(supplied »nd worked by
Messrs. G R Kirkland and Co.),
thousands of Japanese Lanterns, making a
FAIRY SCENE.
Gates open 7 o’clock p m , Promenade Concert
at 715 p.m. Circus Performance 7.45 p.m.,
Pompeii 8 30 p m.
H. DENTON, of Sydney, N.S.W.
JAMES PAIN, of London and New York.
c
RYSTAL PALACE SKATING
ACADEMY COMPANY, Limited,
Yohk-stbket.
THE MOST POPULAR SKATING RESORT
IN AUSTRALIA.
Beautifully Decorated to Imitate the Ice Palace,
Montreal, Canada.
THE ICE PALACE OF AUSTRALIA.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, cool, equal to any
kating surface In the world, and second to no
This Palace is lighted by thousands of many-
coloured Incandescent Electric Light® provided uy
well-known firm, G, K. Kirkland and Co., 65
York-street, Sydney.
GREAT IMPROVEMENTS
Newly Fitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of Competent Instructors.
Good Music by Full Band
Superintended by Mr. George Vassle.
Grand Exhibition In Skating by the Best Talent
In the World.
A. F. SMITH, Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE,
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
FRANK THORNTON’S SEASON.
R,
Enormous Success of
SWEET LAVENDE
In which the Popular Comedian
FRANK THORNTON
will appear, supported by
BROUGH and BOUOIOAULT’S SPECIALLY
SELECTED COMPANY.
ADMISSION—M *s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOB DAVIS.
B
ONDI AQUARIUM.
aSST” BSaSrtsateBffSSa!
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
dally. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is. | Children, 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.45.
This and Every Evening, at half-past 7,
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD as the
ROMANY RYE. ROMANY RYE.
PRICES— 5s., Ss., Ss., and Is.
Box plan open dally at Vestibule from 10 till 8.
J. P. MACDONALD. Acting Manager
0
O R
M A.
BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG
BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG
at
THE ROTUNDA,
Opposite the Railway Station.
THE BIGGEST SHOW ON EARTH.
The Greatest and Most Sensational Novelty In
OYOLORAMA
CYCLORAMA.
No Sydney visitor should fail to see It. Open
aily from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sundays, from 3 to
° P ‘THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG
THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG.
Admission, 2a.; Children, Is. Schools of 25 and
ipwards admitted at a reduction of 25 per cent.
j y O L OR A M A.
NOTICE.
TO SECRETARIES AND MANAGERS OF
HALLS IN THE AUSTRALIAN COLO-
NIES.
Mr. CHARLES ARNOLD has given Mr.
WILLIAM LEAKE the Sole Right of playing
Han. .ha E «*“"‘ ” CHARLE3 ARNOLD.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Leasee: Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman.
Undoubted Success of the
best pantomime ever produced in Sydney,
SINBAD THE SAILOR,
or
TINBAD THE TAILOR.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Ltssees ... Messrs. Hutchinson and Co.
Success Extraordinary of that
FUNNIEST OF FUNNY COMEDIES,
THE STRATEGIST ! !
THE STRATEGIST!!
150 Laughs in 150 Minutes ! Laugh and Grow
Fat! Laughter is better than Physic !
Box Flan at Bruce and Massey’s. Prices as usual.
Business Manager, Mr. Thos. Hutchinson.
jglLlTB SKATING RINK.
The Rink has the reputation of being the
BEST-CONDUCTED RINK
in the Australian colonies.
Here you ate sure to meet the Elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
, Admission, One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling ; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets :
Gentlemen, 45*. ; Ladies, 40s. Season Skate
Checks for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen,
15s. ; Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever
Clamp Skates, the bfest in the world, Season Skate
Ticket included, Gentlemen, 35s. ; Ladies, 80s.
Roller-bearing, l5s. extra; Ball-bearings, £4
extra. Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair ; wholesale,
17s. 6d. Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station
every five minutes for the rink ; patrons carried
free. RedfetU and Waterloo Trams stop at Bed-
ford-street, Opposite the Rink.
*TROcaderO*
KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Most Complete and Elegant Skating Rink
in Australia.
Cool and Refreshing Atmosphere!
t3T The Open Roof a Boon to Skaters!
Grand Orchestra. Gorgeous Appointments.
ELECTRIC LIGHT.
* Skates Unequalled in the City!#
tST TRAM-CARS STOP AT DOOR. 1*
Future Novelties! Futore Novelties!
Open Dally. Usual Rink Prices.
GEORGE OUGHTON ... Gknebal Manager.
METROPOLITAN SEATING R1E,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
M’’ Nearest Rink to Redfern Railway Station.
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony. T??*
GRAND OPEV-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a.m.; \ Admission, FREE.
Ladies’ & children only j Skates, fid.
2.30 to 5 p.m.: Ladies'! Admission, fid.; Skates, fid.
,; Gentlemen/ ,, Is.*, „ fid.
7.30 to 10 p.m. : Admission to all, Is.; Skates, fid-
Double Ticket of Admission, Is 6d.
Weekly Tickets—Single, 3s.; Double, 4s. 6d,
8#" FLOORAGE FREE.
Pyrmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
D. W. HIGGINS, Manager.
HOLT & WINNING,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTORS,
42 Down Strkbt,
OOLLINGWOOD, MELBOURNE,
ALL KINDS OF SCENERY MADE ON THE
SHORTEST NOTICE.
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
May 7, 1889.
TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For conditions see ** Government Gazette.
BRUCE SMITH.
Uniform a speciality ; qualit y, fit and comfort. Mudi-
man. “ My Tailor.” 154 Kiq % Street, Newtown.
8. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers,
Eitij's Iikii; Win,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP.
Vinegar, Blacking,
*«., Ac..
BTIIAM WOBEfl AHD BREWERY 8
BilfilS ST&EET, ULTIMO, SIDHET
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
* Adam Bede’s *
Benevolent Consultations.
“All the Year Round.”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
On these events Adam Bede will devote a
portion of his commission to Charities, com-
mensurate with his success.
NOW OPEN,
Brisbane Cup,
Run at Brisbane, May 24, 1889.
Subscribers at £1 Each.
First Horse £4600
Second Horse ... 600
Third Horse 400
Starters, £600 ; Non-starters, £800; to be
divided amongst them.
Birthday Cup,
Run at Randwick May 24, 1889.
Subscribers at £1 Each. 10)008
First Horse £4000
Second Horse £4500
Third Horse £1000
Starters, £1500 ; Non-starters, £2000 ; to
be divided amongst them.
I. 1
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bede until after the races have been run.
Subscribers must register their letters to
ensure safe delivery, and must enclose stamps
and envelopes for reply and result, and add
exchange to cheques.
Address „
“ADAM BEDE,”
Care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
H
RIVER, SUMMER
!ON.
SANITORIUM HOTEL.
AWKBSBURY
SEASON.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all f>he re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished; boating and fishing; three-
quarters of a mile fr>m the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, *0.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
eonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.
gQUARE
AND COMPASS CLUB
5s CONSULTATIONS 5s.
An unlimited number of members
At 5s Each,
FIRST HORSE, 50 per cent.
SECOND HORSE 30 per cent,
THIRD HORSE, 20 per cent.
j b.—The Square and Compass Club closes all
osultations at the hours advertised, posts and
tributes results half an-hour before eachracB-
is showing the bona fides of the affair, ihe
ims where the telegrams are posted can be
ited by subscribers only. The full results of
ixy event are always advertised in the Referee
d Sunday Times following the races.
Motto Fair and Square ”
Look at the Dividends we have paid on the
DONCASTER HANDICAP.
RUSSLEY m 7 I I .
PLUTARCH ... - I f 9
LADY KINGSBORO ... 12 13 10
Consultations on Every Event.
Note the address of the Ordinal—■
SQUARE AND COMPASS CLUB,
Care of M. PALM,
656— George street— 656
COLONNADE.
OR SLAB.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
LETIN Office.
N
KVION
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS^
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Nkwton & Lamb.
I ELF- AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
£ ' - a —
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction) works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
30s. ] without Stand, 35s,
Packing in canvas, if required, 8s. Bd. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
Occasional tables in an woods, immense
variety of designs j also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &o. Nkwton & Lamb.
o
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl.
ona sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid*
Ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Fen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided Into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
k
D
RAWING ROOM OABI
NETS.
Eaely English
Chippendale Designs.
Newton & Lamb
PIANOEOR BS by R. tIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NEUFBLD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE!
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
u
A USTRTAN BENT-
WOOD
FURNITURE.
A Very .Complete
Assortment.
Many quite now designs.
Newton & Lamb.
Easy chairs for ) .■: „i •.: )i •; ; .
rooms. New Designs covered to order la
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
k
TpEDSTSADS, all sices
Nickel-plated and Blaok
wad Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
tt lowest rates.
NaWIOK as liAMI.
k
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make i also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14a. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pina Tables, from
13b. 6d. 5 Dining Tables, from 20s. } Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.j Washstands, from I2s. 6d.)
Chests of Drawers, from 40s. i Wardrobes, from
80s.! Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s. j Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.|
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
ewton and lamb.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
AND


Doyle’s New Hall, J anee, the best on the
southern Line. New scenery and fire escapes,
companies about to do the Southern trip would
ao well to engage at once. Wire or write to W.
,J °yle, Oommercia! Hotel, Junee. Price
Write for Plans £10 Building 1 Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, L-’mited 96 Bathurst street, Sydney.
*
J
s
T
u,
T
DEllSSAjLPHlUlPS
Barack ;Sf*2tt.
V 4)
J
!\
& i.
i
m.
A Lovely Skin
Nothing is known to science at all comparable
to the Cuticura Remedies in their marvellous
properties of cleansing, purifying and beautifying
the skin, and in curing torturing, disfiguring, itch-
ing, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin, scalp
and blood, with loss of hair from infancy to ago.
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula.
I have had a most wonderful cure of salt rheum.
For five years I have suffered with this disease. I
had it on ray face, arms and hands. I was unable
to do anything whatever with rny hands for over
two years, I tried hundreds of remedies, and not
one had the least effect. The doctor said my case
was incurable. 1 saw your advertisement, and
concluded to try the Cuticura Remedies; and
incredibly as it may seem, that after using one
box of Cuticura, and two cakes of Cuticura
Soap, and two bottles of Cuticura Resolvent, I
find lam entirely cured. Those who think this
letter exaggerated may come and doc me and find
out for themselves. GRACE P. HARKHAM,
North St. Charles Street, Belle River, Ont.
Cuticura Remedies are absolutely pure and the
only infallible blood purifiers, and skin bcautifiors.
I have been afflicted since last March with a skin
disease the doctors called eczema. My face was
covered with scabs and sores, and the itching and
burning were almost unbearable. Seeing your
Cuticura Remedies so highly recommended, con-
cluded to give them a trial, using the Cuticura
and Cuticura Soap externally, and Resolvent
internally, for four months. I call myself cured,
in gratitude for which I make this public statement.
CLARA A. FREDERICK, Broad Brook, Conn.
I have suffered from Salt Rheum for over eight
years, at times so bad that I could not attend to
my business for weeks at a time. Three boxes of
Cuticura and four bottles Resolvent have en-
tirely cured me of this dreadful disease.
JO UK THIEL,
1575 Second Avenue, New York City.
The box of Cuticura that you sent mo some
mouths ago did me so much good that I will send
for another bo::, believing that it will cure mo of a
skin disease with which I have been troubled for
eighteen years.
FANNIE I. JOHNSON, Amsterdam, Va.
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticura, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
XfirSend for “How to 'Cura'Skin Diseases,” 01
pages, 63 illustrations, and 10(7 testimonials.
k
TED with the loveliest delicacy is the skia
bathed with Outiccba Medicated Soap.
ra
PLES, blackheads, chapped anc| oily skin
prevented by Cuticura Medicated‘Soap.
Address : B. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, New South Wales.
Reapes & Shaw's New Establishment
Acknowledged by all who have yet honoured them with a Visit
TO BE
MJESEMSI COMPUTE GENTLEMEN’S OUTFITTING WAREHOUSE AKTWHERE,
Either in the COLONIES or the OLD COUNTRY.
PEAPES and SHAW are now showing the whole of the Gxds contained in the Two
Beautiful Cases recently shown by
WELCH, MAKGETSON & CO., at the MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Visit Peapes and Shaw for Sty Ssh Tailoring.
For Beautiful Ties and Scarfs.
For Newest Shapes in Hats.
For Perfect Fitting Shirts.
For Cheap and Good Beady made Suits.
VISIT
Peapes
it
Shaw
For Boys' Ready-made Clothing.
For Newest Shapes in Collars.
For Your Winter Overcoats.
For Boys' and Youths' Eton Suits.
Visit P tapes and Shaw when you want anything for Travelling.
—REMEMBER!—
The Largest and Choicest Selection of Goods
FOB—
MEN, YOUTHS and BOYS,
Peapes and. Sla-st-w’s,
Right opposite their Old Shop In GEORGE STREET.
Mill
Q
Laver Clamp.
American Club Roller Skates.
fTHE age lor Cheap, Inferior Skates is past, and no skater of to-day can become export on wheels oreninv
evening on Skates without they are on some securely-fastened, emotth-ruming Skate snnh no
“American Club.” It is acknowledged by all skaters on ice that the “ *me,Ln£ f
mcst popular Ice Skate m America, England and Europe for the past 13 years is more c,ukk“y adfusted and more
secure than any other mode of fastening ever invented. Roler Skating has row become a'
the demand for a Skate for experts has caused the production of a first-class Roller Skate with the “ American rhth »
fastening. Sizes, V, to Hi inches. IST Special Prices to Rinks and Clubs. American Club
Wholesale: V. 5, BILL, 6 Bridge-street: Retail: HEBELEWHITE i CO,, horgi-iimi, Sydney.
To arrive—Some very fine Lithograph Carnival Posters,
The Referee.
Three days’ racing at Warrnambool (Vic.)
were remarkable for the defeat of more hot
favourites than ever before went down in that
rising district. It has been a common thine for
Warrnambool backers to take 4 to 1 about a treble
event, and sometimes they took 100 to 8 about
naming all s f x winners for the day ! This year
the merry outsiders rolled home to the disgust cf
all those Melbourne books who had funked taking
the trip across. 6
* • •
The successful jockey’s life is not always a
happy one. A rising Victorian lightweight un-
expectedly won a very big handicap lately, and
his employers rewarded the lad by kicking him
when they got him home. This story is extant
and written in very choice Italian.
* - •
Bill Naughton, sporting editor of San
1 ban cisco Chronicle, who has proved a guide
philosopher, atd friend to Black Jackson, the
pugilist, and who accompanies him to England
is a New Zealander, and a son of the late Mr!
Oommissicner Naughton, who, ever 20 years ago
was chief of the Auckland (N.Z.) police, ’
The great Donovan has been “done ” for
the Two Thousand Guineas. We shall probably
learn anon that the horse wasn’t thoroughly fit
but is being prepared for the Derby. *
***••»
The famous Geelong football team Is in a
state of mutual dissatisfaction about something.
• •
Marylebone Cricket Cinb is moving with
the times. 1 ive balls to the over, bowlers to
change ends as often as they choose, batting team
allowed to declare innings closed at any minute.
Cricket will soon be getting quite a lively game
again. °
* * *
Jack Roberts, janr., has beaten hla own
spot-barred billiards by making a break
of obO. During the game he scored 905 in 40
minutes, which is almost equal to spot stroke rate
and shows the absurdity of discussing a match
between Roberts and any player on this side of
the world. Pome years ago there was wild talk
of pitting Weiss, with a handicap of half the
game in his favour, against the champion.
* • *
The baseball tour has proved a frost In
England. Many of the English papers in refer-
ring to it published The Bulletin's opinion of the
game.
• • §
The New Zealand papers are making
merry over the attempts of the Sydney book-
makers to discount the totalizator. One of them
says that what Mr. John Thompson has to say of
his most formidable opponent is about rs reliable
as a rat’s opinion of the utility of the cat,
♦ • *
Good horseflesh appears to be dirt-cheap
in N.Z. The Daniel O’Rourke colt Recluse, who
is very near the top of the list of money winners
for the season, was offered as a yearling in ex-
change for eight pigs to some Maoris, but refused.
His present owner lately refused £lOOO for him.
Then, again, quite recently, a Taranaki settler
purchased a pony for 6s. and re sold it shortly
after for £3. At the first time of asking it won a
pony race and paid a totalizator dividend of £56.
* • •
i.om Lees, the Australian, has signed
articles to fight M'Auliffe to a finish in ’Frisco
this month,
* * *
Old Nelson, starting at 15 to 1, annexed a
slx-furloßg race at the last Auckland Autumn
Meeting, with Oat. up, in Imin. IZiseos.
• * •
After all, there is not much cause for Aus-
tralian jubilation over Black Jackson’s defeat of
Fatsy Cardiff, who is really far from front rank,
irue it is that he holds the championship of North-
West America, but then it was gained after a
succession of encounters with fourth raters. There
is too much reason to believe that the draw he
fought with Mitchell, the Englishman, was pre-
arranged, and the draw with the great John L.
bulhvan was due, of course, to that pugilist
breaking his wrist early in the battle.
* • •
Dm O’Biien, who sold Carbine to Mr.
Wallace, thought Abercorn would win the Sydney
* * f>
Fifteen hundr* cl pounds were t ffered the
other day to Mr. Beresford, of Auckland, for his
brilliant colt (half-brother to Lochiel) Corunna by
Muaket—Nelly Moore, and was refused.
• • .
Mr. Lamonby, the sporting editor of the
new Melbourne evening paper, is dangerously ill.
“ Johnny ” Connell, the most popular and
generous hotelkeeper and sportsman In the
Western district of N.S.W., passed away last
week at the Cosmopolitan Hotel, Lithgow. He
made heaps of money, but gave too freely and died
poor.
• • *
Dear Bulletin, —I you re the
totalisator, which I believe would meet a long felt
want, especially if a substantial percentage of the
commissions went to charities. Let the race-
c'ubs run the machines and see tkfkt they are pro-
perly conducted ; then the system would involve
lar f e revenue being diverted to legitimate channels
and the public would be more fairly dealt with, as
®here would be far fewer horses “ stiffened ” than
now. I believe that a big percentage of 11 races
at outside meetings are cut-and-dried affairs—often
the horse that could win doesn't, and the public
get robbed by backing form.— Wakabut,
• • •
The Melbourne Hunt Club have a race-
meeting at Flemington next Saturday (11th).
* • *
A very likely-looking black colt, bearing
the uncharitable name of Numismatist, ran for a
handicap at Caulfield last Saturday, and will be
worth thinking about hereafter. The books made
a desperate effort to grapple with this animal’s
cognomen, but they finally retired from the
struggle and called him Rheumatics. Otherwise
the meeting was chiefly remarkable for peculiar
changes in the betting and for the accident to
Allen. After the Selling Rice a disappointed
backer asked little jockey Trahan whether he ever
rode a stiff ’un, although there was certainly no
reasonable cause for the remark just then. An -
how Trahan wiped out the insult by breaking an
umbrella across the other fellow’s ear, amidst
muffled applause.
• * •
On the very day of his arrival In N.Z.
Governor Onslow attended a race meeting and,
vre are told, spotted the winners of three races on
the totalizator. We fancy we can see Tom Morrin
and Mitchelson and Percival and others of their
order, putting their heads together and loyally
deciding to give the Vice-Anointed the “straight
griffin just to encourage him,
* • *
Reid’s light skiff handicap, which came
°ff h* Black wattle Bay on Saturday, brought
about more genuine aquatic sport than ninety-nine
out of a hundred championship races, which are
decided at the mile point and finish with a pro-
cession. Bishop, 101 b,, won with a feather;
Wulf, from whom at one time rather big things
were expected, running into a place.
* • •
Billy Smith, the Sjdaey lad, although
giving away over a stone in meeting Laing, the
champion of New Zealand, held all his own until
the police stopped the fight in the thirteenth
round. Smith was a pupil of Peter Jackson’s, and
the best glove-fight the writer ever saw came off
privately at Foley’s one afternoon, when M‘Carthy
beat Smith, but only through the latter’s bad
generalship. M‘Oatthy will carry to his grave a
disfigured left ear, brought about about by Smith’s
terrible right hand.
In meeting Joe M‘Auliffe, Tom Lees, of
Australia, will be giving away 4.t. Mbs. How-
ever, if Lees is ovsrmatcb, it will take M'Auliffe
all his time to catch him. Jackson had a big
chase before he caught him at Foley’s.
* • •
O’Connor, the Yankee sculler, has covered
Searle’s £ICO with the London Sportsman. So it
is now pretty well a certainty that the pair will
meet on the Thames for the world’s championship.
Less than a score of years ago the English Press
would have howled with derision at the idea of an
American and an Australian rowing on their
waters for the championship.
"love Thou Thine Enemies."
Qcixa a number of clergymen have detected the
finger of Providence in the late Samoan disaster,
and an impression teems to prevail amongst
clerical experts that the hurricane was purposely
arranged, elaborated, and laid on by Providence
to give the Samoans an opportunity of showing
the world what a judicious course of missionary
hrs done for them, and how Christianity (as it
is known) has elevated them from gibbering
heathenism to a pilch of moral splendour equalled
by few and excelled by none. However, some
divergence of opinion exists as to which brand of
Christianity was instrumental in working this
wonderful reformation, Presbyterians, Anglicans,
Catholics, and Wesleyans having all claimed the
credit for their particular brews. The Bulletin
has its own opinions
The wild winds shook the sullen sea,
The whits fiends left their inky bed,
And whirled and danced in fiendish glee,
And ships like frantic monsters sped
Before the shapes of sea and air
Pursuing fast to crush and tear.
And darkly rose the stubborn shore
To there curtail great Ocean’s spleen,
And sea and shore in awful war
Did meet and shatter all between,
And flung the spume to heaven’s dome—
Men spun like feathers on the foam.
Then rushed the islanders, and dared
The terrors of that savage strife,
Nor danger shirked nor effort spared
To save the fainting foeman’s life,
And braved the Ocean’s direst pangs
To snatch his prey from out his fangs.
The act was grand ; let him who boasts
It sprung as fruit from planted seeds
Point out why Britain’s Christian hosts
Do not perform such Christlike deeds,
And count four hundred Arabs slain
In fearful flight upcn the plain.
■Ah ! no, smug men of sophistries,
The pupil is the preacher here ;
Church doctrines and the sects’ decrees
Hold not the fallen fosman dear;
These savages ye strive to lead
To Christians teach the Ghristly creed.


Jl A USERS*
sum! HE.
—Hairdressers —
If yon want EVERY or any REQUISITE ioi
Fitting out or Famishing your Saloon,
APPLY TO
CRAIG & AITKEN’S
I, S. Wilts Barbers’ Supply Boise,
Where you can get, at lower prices than
at any other House in the Trade :
Hairdressing Chairs,
Shampooing Apparatus,
MIRRORS, HOT WATER URNS,
Brushes, Combs, Scissors, Razors,
BROWN & SHARPE’S HAIRCLIPPERS,
CREAM OP LIMBS (in Bottle & Bulk),
SPRAYS, ANTIQUE OIL,
OOSMETIQUES, POMADE HONGROISB,
And Every Other Necessary ,
American Hairdressing Chairs, from £5
Colonial from £2 10s.
MOLE AGENTS for the CELEBRATED
“ Plum ”
or RAZORS and SCISSORS XA
Complete Saloon Qutpit
FROM AlO UPWARDSt
——"t+s+s-
Assistants Engaged for Town A Country
Customers*
Craig & Aitken,
Wholesale Tobacco & Cigar Merchants
And IMPORTERS,
Beg to call the attention of COUNTRY STORE-
KEEPERS and TOBACCONISTS to their
Frloea, which will compare favourably with any
Ip the Trade.
All the Leading Brands of
Tobacco, Cigars and Cigarettes
IN STOCK.
SOLE AGENTS fOk thb
ARMY & NAVY
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES,
Vulcan Pipes & Tobaccos,
AND
M! SWEETHEART cibarette.
Aw Immense Assortment of every kind of
Pipes, Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking
Sticks, Cutlery, etc., etc.
Silver-mounted Meerschaum and Briar Pipes
A BARGAIN.
Bend for our Price List and judge for yourselves.
Note Address—
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Tobacco A Cigar Merchants,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET
(next to Priddt & Co., The Hatters),
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
m
/
kc
rZ
mm
m
/M
If/ 5
ir>
HIS PIEST APRIL POOL.
Mr Plymouth Rocke (time 12.30 am., April Ist.): “Sold again, Fanny. Ive
j the Individual Protection Club.”— Puck,
Stone brokers—Diamond merchants.
A consumptives koine baa been established
at Echuca (Vic.)- Another hash house.
Another Illusion fled ! The standard for
recruits for the Bullish Guards has j_ust_ been
lowered to sft. 7in. To secure uniformity in the
ranks on grand occasions it will be necessary to
provide the smaller men with raised heels inside,
similar to those which are becoming the fashion
with undersized actors.
A Lovblt and Obligate Complexion.— This is ob
tainedby using Rowlands’ Kaltdor, an emollient and
harm less milk for the face, hands, and arms; it remove
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &0., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists lor Rowlands’
articles.
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Roueillen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.*
E. C. ELEY
S'
&
$
Of
o
sS
s
<b
*
A
<?>
$
<y
r.
s
o
5?
&
&
V
£
V
O
<S
o
£
&
v
o
0
jr
&
&
0
£
O
O'
<b
&
s*
€>
O
v
£
*
<C^
r.
*
9
O
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY,
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&o &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Interc ilonial Investment
Company, Irmited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sj dney.
Inspired by the fact that Poet John Far-
rell, of Sydney, is a brewer, a contemporary
sings ;
Your songs are sweet, we must admit,
Oh, gentle Poet Farrell,
But far the finest staves of yours
We find within the barrel.
TATTBESALL’S
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal races through-
out the year.
See Evening News Brevities for full particulars,
or write to “ Tattersall," care of Geo. Adams,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Egyptian Cigarettes
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO I
MELACHRINO f
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO j
M, Melachrino A Co.,
Cairo,
Supply all the Courts and Embassies
of Europe;
All the leading British and Continents
Clubs and Regimental Messes.
jy Have the LARGEST SALE In the World.
Universally Aoknowldeged to be the Best 1
Solr Agknts :
WARMS A ROWS, H Barrack Street, Sydney.
Public supplied direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price, No. 5 Cigarette .. 85/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100
„ No. 8 .. --66/- .. 7/- -
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P.O.O., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
£20
BUCKBOARD BUGGIES
Regular shipments the be it Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 x 16 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passanger Buokboarda with pole,
&c., £27. F.O.B. rail or steamer. Sand for
Illustrated Catalogue of carriages. The largest
and moat completely equipped Coach Work) in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash ; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
B I T T B NBBBQ ft 0 0„
• IMPORTERS,
81 Oiabibob Strike, Wtniabd Bqbabf,
Furniture, Minora. Oleographs and Moulding!.
£20
ALLAN A- MARSHALL A CO.
Bhounbbbs, CoppicesitiTHS, Bbasb and Bui Fobndibb,
ainni. Pibmbbbs, Gabiittkbs, Ship k Gbnbbai Smiths. Abt fc Medieval Metal Wobkbbb
Roller Skates (any make) with Braes or Wooden Wheels.
q m Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prioes-11.000 Fires already in use.
importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear. Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
~ ot Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets. Fire Hydrants. Hose and all appliances,
M l ACCOM* WOMB* t Hie«urii PlMt. Sydney, and Stanmere Bead, retcnkan.
Tones’ Seeing s,
. yoB tHB BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. "
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now perfected, the NEW No. 3 and No. h MACHINES on an entirely Nero Sys'em.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
F4&LSI6B, B Eli B Sill & Co., ton and Leather Mail,
16 Y 0 R K - 81 REE I, - SYDN E Y.
__ g 0 | S Agents lor the above lor New South Wales and Queensland,
L BLAOKINQ. Tanner* Tool* and Material*. Indent* executed on Favourable Term*
DB. RICHARDS.
q' P.O OM Vt
N*
yco'
I
D? RICHARDS
r/agw
m §
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
oeived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
Insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence In their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment
in the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness dur-
ing the day, circles around the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfullness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
In the back, Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot honourably matry, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, and other symptoms
which lead to insanity and death, should consult
him, for he has mastered these difficulties. On
receipt of 6d. in stamps he will send secure from
observation in a plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecersary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
In the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment,
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any cir-
cumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
eases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
1 Spring Street, Sydney
(off Pitt Street North).
to s*r* to mention thie paper when writing.
Consultation Fee*.


EPP S ' S
grateful—Comforting
COCO A
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
k
PIPES
The Host In the World
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Mi: Wilt h Ci.
OLABENOB STBEET
BEHAN’S
IB Isl elk: Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
18, CATTLE S M.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Soars,
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888,
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, BAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGE:
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Eedfern.
Wholes alb;
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug 00., S. Hoflnung
and 00., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H, Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Bbisbane ; B. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
J. BEHAN, V.S., 33 Pitt Street, Kedfera,
PBIGE ... Ss. 6d. Per Bottle,
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
More than 70,000 Oaeea already Cored I
■he Greatest Success!
el Modern Times. /
OONStJLI
{All Ohronio Disease
are Curable.
Hi, S, E, nssuun, Coassltinv Ecitetie,
BXILIiID Spsoialibt fob all Ohbonio Dibbasbs,
•• WIISIAM ITBIIET, NEIBOVIKI.
Any eufflerers unable to call can write for a list of quel-
Ilona (pass) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
Obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
■omplete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
need by him.
Read the following testimonial, one of thousands morel
[OOPT.J
Glenhope, 19th July 1880'
Si H. B. SOOiLMAHM, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, bo.
Dear Sir,—this is to certify that 1, Frank B. E. Knight,
it Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1888, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that 1 was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
lor five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medl-
•inea, as all 1 had taken for the last 16 months was poison.
then pressed him lor a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
surable. During the time 1 was attended by the above
doctors, 1 was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
lieotorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
nngs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
Jour advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
id in March, 1886, when yon greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
BBtonlchment was greatly increased when yon told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month 1 was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
•kin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand |
but after this crisis I commenced to improve veryJAst,
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
•ntlrely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
S result which my friends considered little short of mlra-
sulcus, as all expected 1 would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I oan do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.— l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK B. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Gienhopi.
Declared before me this 6th day of August, 1880, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
IK All Consultations Free. H
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
irevldes that No Cost it incurred in the event el Ouar
KOI Inna Kffbotbd.
AT the Federal Help Company, WANTED.
General Servants, Cooks, Nurses, House
maids, &o.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices: ,72 Elizabeth street, near Hunter-
street.
J. STRAFFORD DIXON,
Secretary.
SC ! ng’s V'ews
Of SYDNEY,
JINOLAN OAVES, BLUB MOUNTAINS
At)., &oa,
SIS SEIM ST,, Between Eutn-st., & I.F 0
Musical. -patent scale indica-
tor, for pupils learning the PIANO.
Price 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of MUSIC,
ss. Gd., posted to the Country from INGHAM’S.
Sydney Aeoadh. Country Agents wanted
Stationer’s
Australian Roller Flour &. Grain Stores,
GRANVILLE.
Sydney Office: 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
BRUNTON’S
Patent —Eoller—Flour
AWARDED
The Highest Order of Merit
At every Competition, and “ Special Recom-
mendation” of the jurors of the Melbourne
INTERNATIONAL CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION, 1888-9.
HOTEL
■are park,
William Toon ... Pbopbibtob.
This First-class Hotel, close to Beach, has every
accommodation. Shower and Plunge Bath. Good
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits only Stocked. WILLIAM TOON.
K
. I--"-'
sKSS
■
PETTY’S FAMILY HOTEL, York Street, Sydney.
-! :!-
ter LETTERS and TELEGRAMS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. -«*
Cfla.r©n.d.oaa. Hotel, Meaaiy.
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
4 T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
liL served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides haying a most recherohi
tinner, you can enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
tere also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can 'jibly make one
tsmfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Plonio art! lira vlded. Tablt
»• Hdte at 1 o'clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsthb to mulr. her
riiitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
IBrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotol p
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
k
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
FOR PRIVATE USB Is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price—Single Razor'
10s. 6d.; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order ’
CRAI6 & All KEN, Potosl Hair Catting Saloon,
Nine Halrcutters always Employed 1 ——
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic a© Stock «© Importers,
ftat« Lichtmer & ®o„ 33 O'Connel! Street.
TT lOHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission Into partnership of Mr. D. 0. KILBURN, and removal Into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET, Between
Hunter Street and the General Post Office— trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage In the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavons to still deserve their
kind attention In the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
818 A GEORSE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Subscribed £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.O.B, Chair-
man. ARTHUR BLACKBT, Esq., F.I.A.,
Deputy-Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest
F r 3 years .. 7 percent. I Fori year .. 6 per cent-
For 6 months 4 per cent. | For 3 months.. 3 per cent
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate
seal of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
! payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving
| a FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
[ property, including its uncalled capital, are
I granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc , Collected.
Estates Sub divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Head Office—10, & 12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
AUSTRALIAN
MiM Fnviiai [minty,
H8TAELI8HBD 184:9.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dieeotobs;
J P. ABBOTT, Esq,, M.P., Chairman.
JAS. R. HILL. Esq., Deputy Chairman.
J. T. WALKER, E-q.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Aotuaey :
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I A.
Seobetaby :
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
Chief Medical Offices ; JAMES O. COX, M.D,
The Society is now In its forty-first year, and Is
the only Australian Life Office which gives
ANNUA8. BONUSES,
Policies in Force, over 86,000
Sum assured (with Bonuses) over ... £33,000,000
Accumulated Funds nearly £1,000,000
Annual Income £1,500,000
Cash Bonuses Divided £3,250,000
Cash Bonus, for one year, 1887 ... £357,000
Policies are NOT FORFEITED If the Purrendn
Value is sufficient to pay one Premi um.
Magic Meal
FOB FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
Stock and Poultry.
Extracts from Testimonials
KipjRt uv Charles Watt, Esq , Late Govbenmkst
Axalykt
“I have trs'ed a sample of the ‘Magic Meal’ fc
pois.nous me a,Is such as Amim ny and Areei io an
have to report, af er a most cartful i xam'nation, that
have been unable to det ot a (rare of anything tha
voald be i r j rious to s o k r f any kind. I* ismy opinio
that this article thou d fu fil all tha conditiors specific
in the tq, .drills enc’os d in each bag.
Mr. H Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon: •*
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, a
the same time keeping them In good condition.”
Sold in Bags—7lbs. Ss., Iflbs. 6s. 6d., 56lbs.
18s. 6d. , and sent on receipt of stamps or P. O. O,
Parcels of 561bs., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
If Viotobia Ohambebs, Castlebbagh Stbeet,
SYDNEY.
H. HILDBE,
BOOT-UPPER MANUFACTURER,
Ihpobteb op
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER.
ELASTIC WEB, GRINDERY, &o.,
Wholesale and Retail Leatheb Mebchant,
539 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
WE S T E R N AUSTRALI
Destined to become
A NEW BRITANNIA in another World.
The man that hesitates is lost.
Then be wise in time ’tis madness to defer.
Send at once for Marked Plans.
MOORE PARK ESTATE, City of Perth.
W OOLLAHRaES FATE, Albany, King Georgi
Sound,
Good Building Sites ; low prices. E »sy terms.
Torrens’ Title. Free deeds. Land is, and must
always remain, the best of all securities.
T. TATE & CO„ 158 Pitt Street.
The recognised Agents for Western Australian
Freeholds.
Q. a a q a a. ,q a a.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTBO-
TIVB ASSOCIATION,
No. Ill Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
F. W. OURNOW, Manages.
Offlse Bonn »I to B, and I to 1 on Saturdays.


WESTERN AUSTRALIA: The Coming Colony.
MT NOW la the time to Invest your FEW POUNDS “Wt
Mr TO REAP very shortly your THOUSANDS.
urea of the World are now on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where recent rich discoveries of GOLD, COAL,
RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT (a certainty) it may, with truth, be said, “AT LAST SHE MOVES! BE WISE IN
Khb-fUiNOi-D-Li nrrrv PPPTTT POPT OTf AT.PATSTV whiln nnn fffttl in ALMOST GIVEN TO YOI
. SILVER, TIN, and other minerals have been made, and with
IN TIME I Call on the W. A. Agents (G. W. DENT & CO.)» and
RESPOS io B SnU™ STaIITO Properties ior I* to'suit LABGB and SMALL
iZ (rom iio to 120,000. WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
SX AUSlttAiiiiiA rnmna wiTUi
lisa Elizateetlx Street, Sydney.
Our Darling Island —Australia.
The Peking Gazette Is now 1000 years
old. Ib is good bo be editor of a paper so
ancient, because you are never troubled with a
correspondent who has been a subscriber from the
start and “ remembers when ’Aynes and yourself
was in gaol.”
There was an old man in Napier
Whose head was a little bit queer ;
He went to the Spit,
Where he took a bad fit
And fell from the end of the pier,
And that was his end, too, I hear !
Ed. Bulletin, —With regard to the letters
printed in your columns as to the “manner in
which the aborigines are treated in West Austra-
lia, I may say from what I have seen and heard
on the spot your correspondent’s stories are truer
than gospel. The West Australian blacks were
and are still the victims of slavery both on land
and sea. They are mustered in the interior,
driven to the coast and put on board pearling-
veseels, and when at the fishing-grounds they
have to dive in water sometimes too deep for a
human being to fathom without terrible injury to
himself ; but they are told bo go, and if they
shake their heals they are speedily persuaded
with a whip. And this “ under the British nag.”
—W. A.
The Bulletin la right glad to notice that
Judge Windeyer, instead of proceeding to charge
the jury in the Sawyer-Olund murder-case at
night, postponed his summing-up until next morn-
ing. The jury thus had a chance of being tolerably
wide awake. To proceed with a criminal trial at
n'ght is. under ordinary circumstances, a ghastly
farce. It does nob follow that because Supreme
Court Judges and counsel are accustomed to
exercise their brains after dinner and stay up
wading through judgments and briefs until one
o’clock In themorningthata set of indiscriminately-
picked jurors are capable of doing likewise. In
the first place only about 20 per cent, of jurymen
have any brains beyond the limited amount neces-
sary to keep them alive, and secondly, in these
dyspeptic days, about 70 per cent, of mankind
eats a big dinner and feels half asleep thereafter.
A prominent figure in London society got
his first start in life in South Africa by the pur-
chase of a big diamond. story goes that a
Kaffir chief once came into his camp wibn an
enormous diamond—it is the central gem of an
Imperial tiara now, perhaps. The savage knew
three words of English which an honest miner had
taught him. These three words were “ Seven
thousand pounds ’’—the price of the gem he
wanted to sell. He hawked the gem about, and
got all sorts of prices offered for it, but for a time
could find no one to give him the £7OOO he wanted.
At last he met the hero of the story, who at once
acceded to the proposal and paid him cash down.
He took seven sovereigns from his pocket and
counted them out: “ One, two, three, four, five,
six, seven. There you are 1” The verdant child
of Nature accepted each sovereign as a thousand
pounds and banded over the stone.
CAUTION.
1 ir>
LOOK ODT FOH FRAUDS.
i
Owing to the success of Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters in curing all
diseases of the Liver, Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Nervousness, Sleeplessness,
and Female Complaints, so that it
has become a standard household
remedy all over the world, and the
Immense demand for the original
and genuine article, certain persons
are offering for sale various cheap
and spurious preparations under the
name of “ Hop Bitters ” which do
not eontainthe medicinal properties
found only in Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.
Take none of the cheap bogus stuff
■imply because it is called “ Hop
Bitters.”
TRUTHS.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters are the
Purest and Best Bitters ever made.
They sre compounded from Hops, Buchs, man-
drake, and Dandelion —the oldest, best, and most
valuable medicines in the world, and contain all ths
bsct and most curativs properties of all other Bitters,
being the greatest Blood Purifier, Uiver Regu-
lator, and Life and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ne disease or ill health can possibly long exist where
these Bitters are used, so varied and perfect are their
operations.
They give new life and vigor to the aged and in-
firm. To all whoso employments cause irregularity
of the bowels or urinary organs, or who require an
appetizer, tonic, or mild stimulant, these Bitters are
invaluable, being highly curative, tonic and stimulat-
ing, without Intoxicating.
REMEMBER.
#5OO (Five hundred pounds) will be paid
for any case that Dr. Soule’s American Hop
fritters will not cure or help.
See that each bottle bears genuine
label bunch of green hops on white
paper with black letters.
None other genuine. Take bo other.
vv CONSULT TJ
Moore & n° GG
XT R THE EMINENT -»■
I SIPECIiXIMSTS,
On all Diseases cff the Genito-Urinary Organs
j Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1 CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
CONSULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
THE CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMAL-
GAMATING, AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, NS.W.
Head Ofpicb: 16 CASTLERBAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
Jambs Fletcher, M.P., Sydney; Jambs A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney ; T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
These works have been erected at large cost for
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh Impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical laboratory) will be under the imme-
diate direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suc-
cessfully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further information, apply
W. B, FLETCHER.
k
Fashion,
PIT, and
Finish.
JUDGE FOR YOURSELVES
We have in Stock
AND
Make to Order
THE FINEST
Iasi Im to aiii Ska
AT PRICES
THAT
Defy Competition 1
A Visit will Prove the above Assertions.
k
k
m mmm bq.t m n
376 GEORGE &TREET SYDNEY
(Opposite David Jones and Oo).
Dr. H. Ewart / /etcher.
"Sufferers from NERVOUS DEBILITY can
get a clear Insight into their cases by sending for
Dr. Fletcher’s treatise on “ Nervous Complaints,”
their
Cause, Symptoms, Treatment and Cure;
This admirable treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of
indiscretion in early life, overwork, irregularity in
eating or drinking, etc,, etc., all of which bring
in their train a number of diseases which are
generally classed under the heading of Nervous
Complaints. Dr. Fletcher has spent a great many
years in the study of these diseases, and has treated
a large number of cases during his private pracoice,
aud in consequence cf the success that has
attended his efforts, tas decided to bring his
medicines more prominently before the public,
and to give to sufferers generally the benefit of
hia great experience in these diseases. Dr.
Fletcher wishes it to be distinctly understood that
he reserves to himself the right of refusing to un-
dertake any case, but if he does undertake it he is
willing to give a
WRITTEN GUARANTEE
to cure same, or return all monys paid. Persons
of both sexes who experience the following
symptoms, viz , Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes,
Pains in the Back, Defective Memory, Loss of
Energy and Vitality and Will Power, Constipa-
tion, Premature Decay, Liver and Kidney De-
rangements, &0,, &c , should send for this book at
once, as it contains in a concise form simple direc-
tions to overcome same.
Remember Dr. Fletcher does not wish to infer
that he can perform miracles, but merely claims to
be thoroughly skilled in the treatment of these
diseases. Thousands have been cured by him, and
he invites sufferers to investigate his statements
by verifying the testimonials published in his
treatise. Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple
and effective, and within the reach of the poorest.
The treatise will be forwarded on receipt of two
stamps to cover postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER FREE.
Address in first instance :
Dr. H. Ewart Fletcher,
BOX, 1417,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Private residence:
“CLONMEE,” WAVEKLEY.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus;--
'
k
XJSB
mebig COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
■
SAUCE
ADO
k «WW
J~n consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAIfCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Pernns
have Jo request that Purchasers see that the Label on^cvery,bottjf
bears their Signature thus —
without- which M bottle of the, original, WOR CESTERSSIWE'
SAUCE is genuine^
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Namt'On Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale "and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; v Crosse and
Blackwell, London , (re. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the Wopld.
The Anglo-Asston Investment, finance
AND
LAND COMPANY (Limited.)
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,000
Head Office t - 84 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman —HENßY GORMAN, Esq., J P.
Vice-Chairman —F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office s ■ 31 Lombard Street E.C.
Chairman— Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P,
This Company was established in 1881, and, as
the result of wise and enterprising management,
has won its way to the front rank amongst Invest-
ment Companies.
The amplest security is offered to Depositors,
inasmuch as the Company has large and valuable
city rent-producing properties, besides its well
known suburban estates, which are mostly within
a very short distance of important railway stations.
Deposits received in large or small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the
current rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES, Manager.
PERTH
The Capital City of
WESTERN AUSTI ALIA.
The Best Investment Going!
GOOD BUILDING SITES “d
Paddington Estate, Perth.
From Ten Pounds “' L <
TEN POUNDS! TEN POUNDS!
Onlv £1 Deposit: Balance in 36 equal Monthly
Payments. DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Early application will secure good Corner Lots.
Western Australia is rapidly progressing and
property is hardening in value.
Buy Now! Buy Now!
And reap Large Profits like early purchasers in
other Australian capital cities.
Marked Plana and Pamphlets post free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Company, ltd.,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. Douglas ... ••• Manager,
NERVOUS MEN.
M
•ffl
EUREKA
\S
ELECTRIC
BELTH'
sW\
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL,
DISEASES OF THE SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0.0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence;
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. I'ains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness; Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly.felt
the wearer. It has great improvements over all Other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on SO days
trial, and accept payrrient after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three mofiths.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from pi'ominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp fat
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. B. 0„ Sydney.
Ills lopsrial laid, Building I Deposit Co.
(Limited), N.S.W.,
HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS, 171 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Managing Directors:
AljK.x. Milsop, Esq., J.P., Chairman.
H. L. Summbrpibld, Esq. Wm. Martin, Esq., J.P.
E. V. Manning, Esq. Wm. Byrnes, Esq.
General Manager:
William P. Smairl, Esq., J.P.
This Company undertakes all usual Banking and Build-
ing Society Business on the most favourable terms.
Fixed and Current Deposits received and Interest allowed
at the following rates:—l2 Months, 7 per cent., 6 Months.
6 per cent., 3 Months, 5 per cent. Advances to Muni-
cipalities on the Secarity of rates on very liberal terms.
On City, Suburban, and Country Properties at lowest
current rates. Liberal a°sistance given to build or pur-
chase. Annuit.es purchased or advanced on. Mortgages
guaranteed, the punctual repayment of interest, or
principal, or both. D.vidends collected in the United
Kingdom or the Colonies. Communications addressed
to the General Manager will receive prompt attention.
FOR SALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Oove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.


m
Tsm- •
m
* 'l%
y '<\SOLD
'.'.everywhere'^
k
! JJIBBLB & COMPANY,
8I«lf WBimg
AMD
—ART ++ DECORATORS—
M Cutlercscli Street*
On* Doob from Kino Stbhbt.
JJ ROU ’ S INJECTION
HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organa
Sold in Paris by
vJ - F 1 B B a .
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist. 102 rn» Rloh»Uen
MEN ONLY!!
Sufferers from Nervous
Oomplaintw Sure cure;
14 days. Apply in confidence to “MEDIOUS,”
Box 120, 6.P.0., Sydney. Personal advice by
appointment, JTbek.
BP*
i
OWENS
BOIEI
W
BOWD EN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Strbbt (near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOSEPH C KoWOES . . Proprietor
LONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
Toowoomba
Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First class Accommodation, Private
Suites, First-class Sample R >oma.
Conveyance meets every train.
john Tong,
Lata of New Zealand.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Company, Limited.
NCOBPOBATBD UNDUE COMPANIES ACT, 1872.
CAPITAL £600,000.
Sydney Office:
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices—2B3, Collins Street East,
(next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS:
3 months, 6 per cent.
6 it 6 n
12 „ 7
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months,
2 per cent. 6 mouths, per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
Robert butcher & 00.
have REMOVED their Wholesrle Wine
and Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst & Liverpool Streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
ROONEY & Co.,
SAW-MIIXBKS,
limber Kirduntj, ud Steam Joiaera,
TOWNSVILLE.
Largest stock of Oregon pine and
Colon U Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &0., In
Vftieensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery A spwoialitt.
Country & Station Orders promptly despatched
K EE N’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE
SADDLE COMPANY, Limited.
Factory and Office—24s Castlereagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreak
omn i 6B * B now carr ied on at our new premise**
*245 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, where trade orders
will receive prompt attention.
None Genuine without our Trade Mark.
_ , CAUTION.
Ihe sole right of the above patent having been
purchased by the undersigned, saddlers, and the
public generally are Cautioned against any in-
fnn ements of the same.
For Keen a Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
Limited—
F. 0. HEDBMANN \
L. 0. HENDERSON /
Trustees.
reversionary
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL
COMPANY, Limited.
Incorporated under Companies’ Act, 1874,
_ CAPITAL, £200,000
SYDNEY OFFICE, 301 PITT-STREET.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate Advances granted. Bills Discounted
daily. Communications from the country promptly
attended to. The following are the rates of in-
terest allowed on Fixed Deposit 3 Years, 10 per
cent. : 12 Months,per cent. ; 6 Months, 8 per
per cent. : 3 Months, 7 per cent. By order of the
Board of Directors. A. W. MILLER, Manager
Jon Roimmi,
(Lot* of SayuatU's Tobacco OoJ,
Wholoiala and Retail
TOBACCONIST,
532 George Street
(Opposit* TOWN HALL),
SYDNEY.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS.
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS. UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7id. per lb. (free
from seed), Caf<s Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 80s. to 505., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters, Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frill-
Inga, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER’S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for tte ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address—LAWLEß, SYDNEY.
j. lawlerT& SONS,
Gknbbai, Impobtebs and Houan Fubkeshbbb,
SYDNEY.
Established ISM.
ELBOVRN
TRAMS
EVERT FEW
PASS
, MINUTES
1
PALACE HOTEL
J.A.W ILSOIM
PROPRIETOR
.C.W.CLARE
MANAGER I
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
NOW OPEN.
finished. is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxl
A mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Fixed Lavatobt Basin, Hot andjOold Watbb, and Shampoo Spbai.
Bach Floor has a Range of Lavatobies and Bathbooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electbio Bells. f
These Bedrooms are fitted up In the most Luxurious Modem Style, and not to be equalled In a
Hotel in the Colonies.
m TWO PASSENGER OTIS LIFTS. «
LADIES' BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
k
k
MEALS oan be had eith£ in LARGE DINING HALL. GRILL-ROOM.
trKAJMD SALOON, from Is. up to Bs.
Fall particulars as to the Tariff, See., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OB PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
D. SPALDING
“ HOMCEOPATH, ALLOPATH,
HERBALIST,
85 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET).
I have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and women
without the aid of nauseous drugs so pernicious to
the system and so objectionable to the palate. I
will guarantee a
COMPLETE CURE IN A FEW DAYS,
or will refund the money. Now what can be
fairer for both parties ?
The time Is over when, It was necessary
to use substances nauseous, such as Copaiba
and Cubebs, by which so many evils were
caused The diseases alluded to above are, as any
sane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (as I will prove) be cured by local treat-
ment, without the use of any Caustic, Styptic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &o,
I will not make yon call constantly so as to pay
several fees. My terms are One Ohartre Only, or
NO CURB NO PAY.
Up country residents treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
communications treated as strictly confidential.
Private Consulting Rooms and Laboratory,
(85 BLIGH STREET.
Hours 10 to 12; 2to 4, and 7to 9 p.m.
To the
LICENSED VICTUALLERS. BREWERS,
and
GENERAL BUSINESS MEN
of Sydney.
LEONARD GKWTN
has the pleasure to Inform his Friends and the
General Public that he has commenced Business as
Sotil aid Bernal Sin: Stoker,
and trusts to merit a share of their support. It
is his intention to sell all classes of Businesses on
COMMISSION ONLY
He also wishes to draw the attention of his
future clients to the tact that NO CHARGE will
be made unless a sale is effected, and In the event
of a sale being completed the charge will be
STRICTLY MODERATE.
8 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS
(First floor),
PITT STREET.


Everybody aaya-and what everybody Bays must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Roller Flodr is the
best in the market.
That famous old Sydney hosteirie, the
Grand Hotel, Wynyard Square, has changed
hands and is now under the management of Mr.
P. Hust, a name synonymus with a first-class
ouisine, the best of liquors, good attendance, and
every other essential that goes to make a first-
class hotel.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE.
Dingman’s electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market.
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of “elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case of cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de lain is, and the finest fabrics. lo re-
moves paint and grease stains from Nothing with
very little labour ; indeed, if it will perform half
what is claimed to be within range of its powers,
its introduction into on'- households will be quite
a suartling domestic revolution.
ONLY
m
Murder!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest of selected Virginia
crops by F. W. Saywkll, of 6
Park-street, it will
Arrest
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure Brands now on
the market. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the nume-
rous poisons
Imprisoned
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be boupbt every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, and obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Retail from
F. W Saywell &. Co.,
6 Park-street, Sydney.
ow
c\
For
AIR.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and produces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
A PURE, non-g kitty Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWIiANDS’
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
American Hotel,
/Corner of George Street!
\ and Queen’s Place, /
SYDNEY.
J. B. BENJAMIN, Proprietor.
The American Exchange
Hotel, which has just been
opened, is situated in the heart
of the city, and in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks,
Exchange, Post Office, Govern-
ment Buildings, etc., etc.
Tit SSDRSOSS £££££
furnished very handsomely,
equal to any hotel in Australia.
Tit SSiTO-ROOI £ r-f« e
spect and worked on the Ameri-
can principle.
[Drawing, Smoking,
AND
Heading Rooms.
Full particulars as to Tariff, &c.,
may be obtained on application
at American Exchange Hotel,
jgf" Telegrams and Communications
promptly attended to.
r
Os
hoteu
I'MH
• 1
r ‘ J
. - ■ v- ■ ■; . 4
r
M-'Bif-EXi
2::
'■:*
w-:-'
T-
STr f_ L
S • 11 '* liiOfflS
v *? ‘-■ .
pupils
‘tSfa.niWtiw *
■ m *
c-ass^S
EKOTJUO PHOID-CUO. CO-. 8 BKIDCE-ST.. SY-DKEt.
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
■■! : !■•
H. THORPE
Proprietor,
When next you bake try Pemell's Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilo-
ken’s Beaconsfield H' use Hotel Is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level
N.B.—Only two hours trom Melbourne.
“My Tailor ” 154 King-Street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suits to measure (or £3 Bs.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Vanities.
“la the baby strong?” “Well, rather. You know
what a tremendous voice he has?” “Yes. 6 »
lifts that five or six times an hour.”
There is a tradition to the '.effect that Hannah More
was never kissed in her life. Can any other woman claim
that proud position ?
Presidentess Harrison said recently:— "l never read a
book on etiquette in my life, for I believe
will always suggest the kind of thing to do, which, alter
all, is the highest motive of life under all circumstances.
Pug-nosed girls will be delighted to hear that all they
have to do in order to acquire a lovely Grecian nose is to
darken the end and draw a white line along the place
where the bridge ought to be. On the other hand, if the
nose is too “ beaky ” they need only whiten the end and
darken the prominent bridge, and there they are. tor
cheeks' full, or the reverse, try a similar treatment
and you .e “ beautiful lor ever.”
Dreams are indigestion. Love is dreams without the
indigestion. Marriage is indigestion without the d*eamß-
“ Pardon me,” said the detective, deferentially ; but x
have noticed, madam, that while you have been making
your purchases in the store you have appropriated several
small articles." “ Allow me to congratulate you on your
polite bearing.” returned the lady, producing a card
“you will see from this that the firm has employed me to
see that its detectives act with good manners toward any-
body they may suspect American Paper
The intellect of the British social male has become quite
unequal to the task of remembering the figures of the
square dances, and this is the reason assigned for the dis-
appearance from the dance cartes of almost every species
of saltation except the waltz.
Some doctors in the east end of London charge 6i. per
visit, including medicine,
Mrs. William Astor, the recognised leader of New York
Society, spends 810,000 a year on dress and 850,000 a year
on charity. She is noted for her taot, her diamonds, and
her pink-dinners.
Rich advt from the English Church Times :
rpCkthe Childless. Will lady or gentleman adopt young
-L wan, with view to help him to taking orders.
An English paper tells how the “ broken ” aristocracy
sell their jewels. A trusty female friend is employed as
vendor and she approaches a jeweller with, say, a pearl
necklace. “ Well,” says the assistant, “ these stones will
take two hours to test; will you call at the end of that
time.” She calls. “We will give you £7OO for the neck-
lace ” she is told. “Seven hundred pounds ! Pooh, non-
sense ; my friend wouldn't think of taking anything lees
than £1000,” with many words of the same character.
The manager is immovable, and the lady marches off.
Where does she go ? Back to her friend ? Certainly not,
straight into the nearest shop and again offers
iaoe. This time perhaps she is offered £750. y J(
have just refused £800,” she cries. “ Well, £B2O then.
“No• I am not authorised to take less than £lOOO. And
so on tramps the indefatigable, untired friend, till she has
gone the whole round of the shops (maybe it takes her a
week) to discover the' real market price of the necklace.
That is how ladies sell their jewels.
A smart American woman and her paid have been rook-
ing the Tuscan suckers at whist. It was at last discovered
that when she chanted “When Other Lipsand
Hearts,” hearts were trumps, and she had a hand full of
them ; and when hearts were trumps and she > only had
one or two or three, from her rosy lips came, The Heart
Bowed Down,” and when she had a hand full of spades,
and spades were trumps, she warbled “The Old Sexton
and when she was strong in diamonds she hummed Rich
and Rare were the Gems she Wo.e;” and when she had
lots of clubs, “Are jou there Moriarty' was the little
ditty she hummed.
If about this time next year you notice a smart
woman with bunches of violets right down the front of her
dress, credit the idea to Sara Bernhardt, who has just
caused a craze for violets in America.
Mistress (to Bridget)-" Is it possible. Br.dget, you are
looking through my trunk?” Bridget (calmly)- Yis,
mum, an'didn’t I oatoh you lookin’ through mine the
other day ?’’ ,
A London judge has held that a man who can afford to
consume stout and oysters is in a sufficiently flourishing
condition to pay his debts, and must go to pnson if he
* al The° excuse*" given by the young American dude for
eccentricity in dress apparel is that the average American
in a regulation swallow-tail and white tie looks like
“ somebody’s butler.” And to aver* the calamity this is
how he arrays himself :-Over his under-garments of dove-
gray silk he drew a pair of satin trousers, embroidered up
the outer seams with a fine floral design, and met them at
the knees with black silk stockings, which he fimsMofi
with a pair of low, buckled Richelieu shoes. His s s
penders were of white satin, with gold buckles, and were
embroidered with his autograph in gold silk.
ruffled ehirt hid its greatest part beneath a waistcoat of
flowered satin, and the wide lapels of his dress coat were
satin-faced and finished with a delioatelmeof embroi ‘
dery. His overcoat, a la Incroyable, was double-breasted,
with three capes and big Pierrot buttons, and his ellver-
topped cane bore his monogram in rubies, r unk beneath
its beaten surface.
Choice joke atari bated to the Duke of
■Rdinbar/h Why cannot a deaf and dumb
man ckle' nine girls ?”. " B cause he can only
gesticulate- (just tickle eight).
A half-caste bank-clerk who “ had been
a leading spirit in the religious life of a South
Australian town ” has eloped with £70(3 of the
tood red gold of the National Bank of Australasia.
Two brothers, squatters on the Bland
country (Western district of N.S.W.) had lately
So Abandon their station, leaving 20.000 sheep
without water A week later not a live sheep was
h ae3n on the run, thousands of the carcases of
{he p=T being piled logger nt the gate,
of the different paddocks.
A lately deceased and wealohy bachelor
member of the N.S W. Parliament made a will
and signed it, leaving his large property to rela-
tes in England. In his latter days better
shnnffhts appear to have prevailed, and he made a
**3will leaving the whole of his estate to his
mSldmnMSn ThU will he tad not .Igned
(belied very suddenly), and notwithatandinghis
wish about which there can be no doubt what-
ever, the whole of the property goes, under the
first will, to his relatives in the old country.
In the long ran the banana-skin gets level
with the man who throws it on the side walk
Lead la dangerous as a halt-dye The last
heir that it made die was the heir to the Empire
of Austria.
It took 17 sho a to kill a wild boar »t
Mount Eccles, Vic, the other day. His tusks
were seven inches and his bristles six inches long
His skin was 2 % inches thick over the shoulder.
What a member of Parliament he would have
made !
The V.RC has decided to add £5OOO t >
the next Melbourne Cup, thus making the great
race at Fleming ten by far the most valuable
handicap ever yet contested. Probably the Com-
mittee will rectify that error in the conditions
which The Bulletin has pointed out year by
year.
Dca' Bulletin, —You need to come to the
Richmond for a perftet “free and easv ” At a
ball which I attended lately, the master of cere-
monies after o» e of the dances, propped him--elf
up against a door-post, and gracefully removing
his pipe, taid, “ Well, gents ! I think I’ll sing yez
a song while the ladies gets their wind." Without
further pressing, he warbled, ‘Go and leave me,
if you wish it.’—Yours truly, Scat, Tintenbar,
11th April, 1889.”
The American baseballers have arrived in
England, and boss Spalding is spinning some
beautiful yarns. He told an interviewer that
their valedictory match in Melbourne was played
before an enthusiastic cro vd of 4000 people. Not
only does this statement involve a wholesale mul-
tiplication of the real figures, butMr Spaldingforgot
to mention that Melbourne interest in baseb-11
chiefly gathered round a parachute flight. W. G
Grace is to be worked as an advertisement for the
new game.
Mr. Cock’s ualucky horse, Cyclops, has
been sold for £llOO, and goes to India very
shortly. The one eyed half brother to Malua
never won a race outright (though he made a
flakey dead-heat with Mentor last string) during
a l the time that he has been running close to some
of the best horses in Australia in weight for-age
events. How Cyc’ops went away with a 200-
yards lead for the Champion of 'B6, and w*s only
collared by Matchlock, is one of the oheri had
traditions of Flemington.
A curious incident happened the other
day in England at the trial of a person accused —
and convicted —of sel’iogird j c at photos. When
sentence had been pronounced, the prisoner re-
quested leave to ask a question. Leave was
gtanned, after some little demur ‘‘ I want to
know,” said the prisoner, “ if it is the intention of
this Court to prosecute the foreman cf the jury
for theft?” “On what ground?" asked the
amazed judge, like an Irish echo “On the
ground,” replied the unfortunate merchant, ** that
he has still got a couple of photographs under his
blotting-pad.” And he had. Tableau ! Curtain.
Her Majesty’s army doesn’t appear to be
getting any better than it was—in fact, the
loafers who pad their chests with cotton socks and
shirts at a national remuneration of 4d. a day are
nearer to the animal creation than ever. Four
hundred of Britain’s gallant defenders were turned
oun of a train at Bristol recently, and 50 of them
were discovered to be beastly drunk. Ten were
laid out on the station platform like gallant
corpses, and six had to be carried to the local hos-
pital for the liquor to be pumped out of them.
The horrors of war ate nothing to the atrocities of
peace.
From Brisbane comes to us a new ladles’
newspaper ycelpt the Princess, nicely printed,
smartly written, and adorned on the outside with
a portrait of the pretty lady who stays up at night
crying because the fat. bald-headed little man
who may some day be King of England has not
yet come home from a large variety of places
which he no doubt alludes to as “the club.” Now,
that portrait kinder annoys us. As a believer in
the encouragement of local industry and national
feeling, The Bulletin would have been betutr
pleased if the new journal had given us a picture
of a real Australian princess—of the royal bouse
of Quambi or Pandyil, or a descendant of King
Billy Nullahnullah. There are several of these
royalties hawking fish about Queensland and they
should have had a show.
Some years ago daring the prevalence of a
small-pox scare in Australia one of the A.S.N.
Oo.’s steamers was crawling down the coast bound
for Sydney. Amongst the passengers were two
Chinamen, one of whom was sick unto death with
some un-diagnosed complaint. While life re-
mained in the body of the sick Chow his com-
patriot was assiduous in his attentions, and dili-
gently performed certain weird rites considered
essential to the keeping at bay of “ dibble-dibble.”
But no sooner had the sick Celestial drawn his
last breath than his mate, in true Chinese
fashion, gave the body a vide berth Toe
captain was for some time doubtful whether
he should keep the corpse for inquesting at Sydney
or heave it overboard. There was a risk r f censure
if he did the latter, while if he kept the corpse
there was a chance of the health-officer at port
booming the vaccination industry by a statement
that he was unable to say whether or not the
disease was small-pox. After mature reflection
the gallant captain decided to let the sharks do
the post-mortem, and the old quarter-master was
directed to have the body wrapped in a hammock
and covered with a Union Jack as a shroud. To
the latter item the salt strongly demurred. “ Put
the Union Jack over a dead Chinaman, sir! I
don’t like to do it. It looks like tryln’ to insult
the flag. Please let me cover him with the blue pater
—the blua peter means ‘ outward bound.’ ’ The
quartermaster had his own way and the corpse was
dropped overboard without ceremony. After the
burial was over the other Chinaman, who had been
quaking with superstitious fear ever since the
death of his friend, put in an appearance and ad-
dressed the captain: “You belly him with
tlowsers on.” “ Yes, John, we did. Your poor
mate went over just as he was.” “ I welly solly
you belly him with tlowsers on. He had fob
pong (£4) in the pocket.”


Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY a MARGARET STREET
(Hstweea George and Tork Streets). P.Q. Box 920. Dr.
IpMr to a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Barrard College, U.S. (lor oonflrmation see New Zealand
•aae te, January Ztot. UN; also New South Wales
Oaaette, April 17th, UN). The doctor has devoted 14
yean to the study ol CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
aH complaints with excellent results. All applying to
Uos will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
Ho experimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure In every case he undertakes, or forfeit
AMO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
IS perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous powtr.
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed In bis speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES or MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
net In any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
JOME, H D., 4S Margaret Street, between George and York
■Meets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours
W a.m. to 12 a.m.; Bto 4 and 7to • p.m. Sundays from
U to 11 aan. only.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
"• 11F A If S — INVALIDS
■as *n ENORMOUS SALE in England, and
la now being introduced into the colonies,
■very Storekeeper should get a supply
aa every wise mother will certainly
use it.
Dr. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Life preservatio n
BY
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonbdalb Stebkt East, Mblboubns.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
llscretions and other enervating influences with
Iheir associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
an health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
■offerers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
(uacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d, (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Do., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
FREE
PRES CRIPTION3 are to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS
DEBILITY and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy
of this book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six
Penny Stamps. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street, Sydney.
tn
5
TJ
H
r
o
S
3Jn J 0 33UX 3HX
Victory Ointments.
The only pure Eucalypte In the TTorld,
WARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours; and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and ,our world-
tamed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
People. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
lor the Voice. Manufactory—Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Medical.
a mmm medicine.
Beecham’s Pills
Patent
w
PILLS
&
*
4$
I sufferer i
| Pills, and
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
In twenty minutes. .Every
s earnestly invited to try one box of these
they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patQat
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills;
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkkcham’s Cough
Pitts a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are give* with Mali hoe.
uonstut oy neuter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addressed Id. stamped envelope, forward advice
and his Medical Book Free. Address—
Herr RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, Q.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W,
DEBILITY.
rjlO SUFFERERS.
Consult Personally or by Letter
Cowan & Anderson,
Eclectic Physicians,
On all Chronic Diseases.
They Treat and Cure all Chronic, Nervous, and
Special Diseases of both sexes on the ECLEC-
TIC PRINCIPLE.
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all cases.
N.B. —Medicines forwarded, free from observation
and securely packed, to all parts of the Colonies.
Note the Address;
COWAN & ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Hbrbal Dispensary,
182 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
A Wonderful Discovery
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
This valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure Swelling and
Sandy Blight, Inflamed Eyes and lids,
of Sight, etc. It will be found very beneficial and cooling
to those who have weak eyes, or whose work compels then
to strain their eyes.^.Highly recommended by the leading
Oculists.
f|ni,l,' * The public are requested to notice the
! rords, “ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE-
LOTION,” with tbs Trade Mark {a Rose ) on Dark Rluf
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
“ » mn CEismm unoi,
Not for Rose Eye Eotlon,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
ofl on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A, HOSE, Dinnuia; & Masuftetnrins 1 Stoamt,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. (By post, '3s. 6d.)
&f Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’SJGOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
JUST PUBLISHED
A most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains information most valuable in Ner-
vous and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rules
are worth its weight in gold. Send your full
address, and we will send Post Free One Copy,
given away for the next Six Months Only. Write
to Professor R. T. SELBY, Cleveland Street,
Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements
—Wk Can Recommend—
B. EUGENE'S
(from Paris)
LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S
Hairdressing- Saloon
As the most Central and Wall-Appointed
of any in the City.
WIG-MAKUie and lIAIK WORK. HI
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
Note the Address:
96 ELIZABETH STEEET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank)
MELBOURNE.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all In-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Addbbss : 53 SYDNEY ARCADE.
" For Framing t Picture Neat ani Well."
DP 33RN A H D’S r'irruKK and Moulding
• Store, 399 George Street (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c„ carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts out with real gold edges,
pecial attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATB,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c„ &a
Cooperage :
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
If!
(
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
I
fIUCH
INC
*/.
*/
PO
-as*
'XL.
Sk MA
k
manufactured by a
gj JjJM£S CMNNOfr JfarbovrS' Jt \
rj •'.Sold Ins a.l£ &taC*'U) < SSore/reeprro
m
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST - QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Alt.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents s
BALGBII, JOHNSTON and Co.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond St., Sydney.
k
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame*
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and mad*
Equal to New, at
9. SULLIVAN’S,
641 George Street,
Bkiokfibld Hill, Stdott,
between
Liverpool <t Bathurst Sk.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
k
' «.
HAWIWU REUS
* IMPORTERS OF '
HATS CAPS It
438 CEORCE gr
■ v 3VDMEY %
Cfipouft LtusrCCer*
/p
Branchj
•7 • a BORG B STRUT,
BRICKFIELD intJ^
(Next to Craig and Aitkea.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
I
Hotels.
Comley’s Hotel,
EMU PARK, ROCKHAMPTON.
FRED. OOMLEY ... Peopmek®.
X =c X
A Ol NOWLEDGED the Finest Hotel on the
Coast. Overlooking the Bay, with every
Convenience. Dining Hall SO x 49.
CONVEYANCE MEETS EVERY TRAIN.
Impeeial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE.
Proprietor.
PRINCE OF WALES' HOTEL,
near Opera Honae, Bourke Street, Beat,
This well-known Sporting House la conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.
FOR SAL .—Two Grand Water Frontage*,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivera. Apply
Bulletin O. iob.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON UADI
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30a. Do 21b.
>49 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Near Tatter*alT».)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice at Long at
any other leather.
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
MASON BROTHERS,
(limited,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Salk
to the Trade and Wholesale
"Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN AND 00.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
k
F*. R 4 LARKIN,
IIfPOBTBB OP
&r WINDS, SPIRITS, BBHRS &0., &0. H
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’*
(old Cork) Whiskies. Kennedy's, Kartell's and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
W The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. t3T All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Alb and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
iar SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' REImH&T ROOM and LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdebn & Sons).
Produce stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Company, Limited,
BRIDGE] STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000. Reserve, £270,000,
Wool Season, 1888-89.
REGULAR SALES OF WOOL HELD
THROUGHOUT THE SEASON.
THE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation,
and the Displaying and Protecting all Wools
entrusted to the Company for sale, whether from
large or small clips.
KST. Growers Advised and Consulted with before
Sales of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wpol
lien of ensuing Clip- and on Wool and other Pro-
duce, whether for sale in Sydney or shipment to
London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial Skins,
Hides, Tallow, &c., held regularly.
Every information supplied on application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES.
Bridge and Loetus Streets.
Genuine Swedish made ‘crown
BRAND ” HORSE HOB-NAILS
are superior to all others and lower in price.
Samples to be had at any leading Ironmongers,
or from
C. A. FALSTEDT ,
Sole Agent for Australia,
146 PHILIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the oiivlised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their benefioient action is at onoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, gat Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address ia not 523 Oxford-street; London, they ar«
spurious
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANO
▲T THE
SEWIHfI HACHINE DEPOTS
w
VI O T
R X A.
MELBOURNE
Richmond
Windsob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
BOHUOA ...
BBBOHWORTH
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL
BALE
MARYBOROUGH
Head Office s 44 Lonsdale Street Bast, near Swanston Sweet.
New Coffee Palace, Bonrke street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Fall Mall, next Lyeenm Stores.
66 Moorabool Street
Main Street, next Aesohlmann’s.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
THE
Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machine
PABTOBALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappoincment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
AGENTS;
T. 13L. G-EDDBS ds
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man’s Watch. Made suitable for Hard Biding and Bough Wear and. specially
rated for the climate. Supercedes all other English Levers ever introduced into this market,
TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY. a^|
- Wholesale Agent; :
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
Perdrlau <S& Co.,
. RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS, WATERPROOF SHEETING, &o.
TENNIS - SHOES - and - BAILS.
Co„
AUSTRALIAN RUBBER WORKS, 270 EEORSE STREET, SYDNEY.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
sr?H
f 4U *
* •
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
gf Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition wnere they have competed.
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S. V.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay. . A ,
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “ No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made. c« nr ,
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and ail the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof. TT „ „
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
m
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
9
asp'
