

Ask your
Grocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter.” —Lancet
TORTOF BO
fm
i
By “ The Bulletin’s ” well-known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL. MAY.
Price - One Sliilling |
Per Post, is. so.
MAY BE HAD FROM AGENTS, OR DIRECT FROM “ THE BULLETIN ” OFFICE.
Agents:
Victorian A. BENJAMIN, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne.
Tasmanian FITZGERALD BROS., George-street, Launceston.
Queensland J. H. THOMPSON, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
#
TTSE
liebib COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
’M
cffectuai.lv destroy;
ALL NOXIOUS INSECT!
FLEAS. FLIESBEETLESMOSttUitOES,
COCKR CACHES,AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO BIROS OOG
foWLSOROtHER
-ANIMALS
s
df
rSOIDI
njvjsj
ttROSi
BYALUHt.Mi.STS
AN D3TORIK IEPERS
.whousau
FELTON • CRIM WAD E.UPI
MELBOURNE r~ j
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE,
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
d
DIXSOPSONS
OV»£
*
O
o
X
V
yoxsx
SIR ROGER
50
a:
o
r
liQ
hm
z
DIXSQNS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in
and is now toeing introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
m. RIDGE’S ROY Alt POOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
LEA & PERRINS'SAUCE
\3t
eonsequknce ( of limitations ief^THEr WORCESTERSHIRE
Jo deceive t he Public; Lea .and
havo to (request that Purchasersthat
mers*iheir *Si.'gnatunifhus^
of Hhtf origindl
'SAUCEis genuine^
; Saiue, end-Farm,on Wraft*r t /UStl, £<***£**
Ar W Oilmen throughqfU the World. _
HIGHLY NUXRIT4VE
A
MAY BE OBTAINED INLSXHfiOUG HOUXTBE COLONY.
WILIiIAM CAROILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
HUNGARIAN
natural aperient WATBt
For CoEStipatioE, Indigsstl^l
VvWV$
ď
Stomact & Liver Complaints
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
d
{STATE
i'SONIUdS
GRfi.NDE-GftILLE.~For Affections of th«
Liver, Biliary Organs, &0.
CELESTINS.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gont
Rheumatism, Diabetes, «0.
HOPITfiL.—For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent T able Wat«*»
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON'S .
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON'S CELEBRATED
EATJ BE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
ATKINSON’S -
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers —*
j. & E. ATKINSON,
24. OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
k. Trade Mark— “ White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,* * with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, Junk.,
87 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
PREMIER
Building 1 Association.,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
EIEI.BOTJB.NE.
Year ending
Oct., 1885.
Subscribed Capital ••
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 61,6-0
Deposits Received ..
Advances Made .. .. one inn
Total Income .. •• 200,1Ub.
Year ending
Octl, 1886.
. £350,000
120,000
261,500
247,840
451,085
Year ending
Oct., 1887.
£431,125
206,685
391,356
307,828
797,990
Year ending
Oct., 1888.
. $580,000
351,015
, 1,133,949
635,836
„ 3,048,951
Deposits received at following Rates :
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per cent.; 3 months, 5
1 * Snecial Terms for longer periods.
per cent.
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH.
To persons who desire to put by
small sums of uncertain amount,
and who wish to secure Interest
in the'bank:
SS S ™ Erinch reoaWe Fry. P® OHNT. P*K A-HUM
upon their Daily Balance. ,
Ample Funds for Borrowers. Terms Libera .
!
as
PREMIER
Building- Association,
64 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
£25 Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of la. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders m
Cash. The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received
in October, 1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had con-
tributed only £li 55., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
i : Y
Hon. John Himmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary.
4^:
■
jipjiif jit- L 'l|
Jr
the FEDERAL COFFEE PALACE,
CORNER OF
jancl Collins Streets, Melbourne,
Containing I'm, HOndeed and Sixty Boons, is now replete with every eonyenienoe for the comfort of Vinton,.
PRIVATE SUITES OP BOOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
special Dining Saloon for Lad us. snmptuoudy furnished, unth Table Appointment, in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL on GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menti, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING & RECEPTION ROOMS.
Hot, Oolc3L and. Shower Batlis '
Night Porter always in Attendance. Telegrams and Letters promptly attended to.
George colien
Manager.


The Bulletin
Vcl. IC—Ho. 488.
SATURDAY, JUNE 22, 1889.
Price, 6d.
%
%
*?■
f/sfer OConnor ay
fw faayd ou.C tyof
fay as fycis faay Ofcy/y '
tyf /pf/prs /jo,
MvWtf: ■'
\
v&
1) i
AN ANXIOUS MAMMA —A BATHER PROSAIC SOLUTION OF THE BEAST LETTERS MYSTERY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum
Half-yearly 01. 6
Quarterly 0 G G
Cheque*, Drafts, cic., and all Business Communications
1., he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor trill carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOW words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are, enclosed, But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
ice are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS,
NOTICE.
Uy sending direct to Tire Bi lletin' Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can hare The Bulletin posted regularly to, you qveryweek
for a year.
This offer is not open to, residents, of Sydney. In that
(fity The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
tp interfere.
SATURDAY. JUNE 22, 1880.
A Disgraced Proconsul.
It is but recently that information was cabled
Ij'o this country that, in recognition of the
special ability displayed by Sir Hercules
Robinson as Governor of the Cape of Good
Hope, and of his distinguished services and
tact in the administration of the tangled,
diplomacy required by the peculiar condi-
tions preyailing in South Africa, a Peerage
awaited him upon the expiration of his terra
of office as Governor! Since that announce-
ment Sir Hercules has crowned his wq,rk by
delivering a valedictory speech to the people
of the Cape. In that farewell utterance
be declared his conviction that the future
prospects of the community amidst which
he had lived arid acted for so many years
pointed rather in the direction of Independ-
ence' arid ‘ Republicanism than towards the
quarter o'f Imperial Federation. This ex-
pression of opinioil has, according to latest
ltd vices, created soiriethriig more than con-
sternation in Dowuhig-street. It appears to
have smitten the’ very gizzard of the Prim-
rose Leaguers and their pktrioris. 1 Rage
donsumes the vitals of Royalty, and the
bowels of the Tories in office aVe moved by
\Vrath. The peerage which was being “readied,
rip” fdr Sir Hercules is petulantly put aside'
for a fresh label, and will now probably be
Reserved for John Davies, or the Soudan
donkey, or some other deserving and suitable
recipient. Sir Hercules is to be officially
“ disgraced.” The Jin I has gone forth. He
is to retire in August from Her Majesty’s
Service. A sentence of this nature, in
these days, while it closely resembles the
“ degradation ” indicted upon Galileo by the
Inquisition, will operate in similar fashion,
hut much more promptly. By peremptorily
snuffing out Galileo and his heretical opinions
about the movements of the heavenly .bodies
the Inquisition consigned him to one of the
loftiest niches in the Temple of Fame.
There were doubtless a number of saints
canonized about the same time and by the
operation of the same influential people.
Peep obscurity enfolds their identity. It
plight be possible by a litt'e research to dis-
cover the panic of the Inquisitor-General
principally responsible for the- ■’ extinction ”
of Galileo. The identity of such a person is
pretty sure to have been preserved from
total disappearance by the high station his
act achieved for him in the world’s Duuoind.
.So probably Lord Salisbury may live in
history as the person worthy of recollection
mi account of Iris having disgraced the Yice-
Consul who first dared to publicly foretell
the inevitable future of the British depen-
dencies. Lord Salisbury has made a bid
for fame similar to that which preserves un-
forgotten the name and services of Lord
N ORTH.
* * #
The foolish conception of the Tory Go-
vernment of England seems to he that they
have potency to “shelve” Sir Hercules
Robinson. The perceptions of persons bred
in the Tory atmosphere are insusceptible of
the vivid truth that the real way to shelve a
luan of original force and independent ten-
dencies is not td refuse him a peerage, hut to
confer one upon him. There is for most men
an enervating influence in a coronet which
promptly stills their pristine vigour and
quells their individuality. Robert Lowe,
Gathorne Hardy are remembered names.
They disappeared under their titles. There
is no bushel more adapted for hiding a light
under than is a coronet. Sir Hercules
Robinson would have become but an undis-
tinguishable peer, cramped as he would have
been by his new station and hampered by
uncongenial surroundings. Sir Hercules
Robinson, the ex-colonial Governor, dis-
graced for thinking straight and speaking
above his breath, may re-enter public life as
a representative of the Commons of Eng-
land, with the decided advantage of starting
with the reputation of being a man of un-
compromising downrightness.
* * *
The fashion in which the British Govern-
ment have dealt with the ex-Governor of the
Cape raises the question whether England
has truly entered upon her epoch of decad-
ence. The point is not whether Sir Her-
cules was accurate in his forecasting of the
severance of her principal dependencies in
remote parts of the world. That may be
considered later. The special suggestion of
the episode lies in the temper displayed in
relation to the speaker of unwelcome truths.
The student of history is inevitably reminded
of the circumstances of the decadence of
Spain, True, the crusade against independence
and originality of thought in that country was
religions instead of political. But the process
was as nearly identical with that just initi-
ated by the wiseacres of the British Colonial
Office, as the different circumstances and
habits of two wiftely separated periods will
permit. The dominant clique in Spain pro-
scribed and punished her most vigorous
thinkers and most courageous citizens-. They
repressed, by every influence at their com-
mand, all tendencies to vigour of mind and
originality of idealism. Immediately decay
set in, rapid and intense. In war, in politics,
in art, in literature, in industrial enterprise
—in every phase of existence which requires
superior powers—retrogression commenced.
Before a century had elapsed, Spain had
ceased to have great monarchs, great states-
men, great writers, great commanders, or
men great in any department of human occur
pation. Arbiter of Europe, Queen of the Seas,
Mistress of the New World, she became in
a few generations “a, reproach and a by-
word hissing ” —her arsenals euipty, her
dockyards crumbling, her art decayed, her
literature extinct hut for the relics of the
glorious past, her monarchs drivellers and
drabs, a foreign hand at her throat, aud her
voice—erst so terrible in command—querul-
ously crying for help from a uatioq, of here-
tics whom she had despised. Such, was the
fate of a nation once mightier in her day
than ever Britain has been on sea anil ou
lind, in extent of colonies, and predomin-
ance of trade. And historians agree in pro-
nouncing that the wreck of so, much greatness
was due tq one cause —the proscription of
freedom, of thought arid of courageous
v. oicings of unwelcome truths.
# '•£ #.
The truth for the enunciation of \yhieh
Sir Hercules has incurred the feeble, wrath
of'the Imperial authorities, is as we have
indicated that tile trend of eyepts and
feelings in the South ' African colonies
is obviously rather in the direction qf Ip-
dependence and 'Republicanism than of
Imperial Federation. ; Perhaps the offence
given by this unwelcome utterance of verity
has been intensified by the fact that4Sir
Hercules, as an ex-Governor of New South
Wales, might be supposed to speak with
more comprehensive significance than if he
had no vice-fegalj experience outside South
Africa. It will naturally bo inferred by all
who bike cognisance of the expression of his
opinion, that its grounds arc likely to include
retrospective and comprehensive impres-
sions attributable to his observations in his
earlier sphere of vice-royalty as well as in
his last position. The accuracy of these
forecasts as applied to Australasia cannot
be disputed. The Imperial connection is
very dear to many Australian colonists. The
affectionate clinging to the mother country
is doubtless chiefly felt by those persons
who look back to Great Britain as the land
of their nativity, and who only emigrated
after their impressions had been to a certain
extent matured. There is also another and
less numerous class who desire the perpetua-
tion of the Imperial connection. These arc
the noureaux riches, the “wealthy lower
orders” of Australia, who, having achieved
all that is possible in the way of the distinc-
tion due to mere redundancy of means, sigh
for some bauble in the style of title to stamp
their vulgar currency with a sovereign mark
not attainable by persons less fortunate in the
sordid particular of dexterity with the muck-
rake. But the disproportion between the im-
migrant population and the native-born be-
comes yearly greater. The former are in an
ever-waning minority. Among the latter
the spirit of national distinctiveness con-
stantly developes and expands. They are im-
patient of the term Dependency and the in-
fluences which are inseparable from it. They
revolt against the idea of inferiority which
attaches to the term, and which is perpe-
tually enforced by the relations between the
“colonial” Legislatures and Downing*street.
The project of a closer connection presents
no inducements to them, because it pro-
mises no alleviations but rather an intensifi-
cation of existing disadvantages. In a
Grand Council of the Empire, Australian
representation would, they perceive, be
hopelessly swamped. The material dangers
of the existing connection, or of anymore
intimate association, are fully recognised ;
and no adequate countervailing advantages
can be perceived. The sentimental pre-
dilections of the immigrant settlers are
altogether, and in every sense, foreign to
their conceptions. They are already uneasy
at their situation—exposed to be harassed, if
not assailed and ravaged, every time that
Great Britain becomes involved in a quarrel
about Heligoland, Constantinople, Hiudos-
tan, or generally the balance of power. And
they are unable to perceive that any allevia-
tion of these disadvantages would be forth-
coming even though Imperial Federation
bestowed on them a voice in the Councils
of the Empire, because it seems to them
that the right to vote for peace when
the central authority would certainly be able
to command a majority of votes for war
would confer upon them no immunity from
devastation, while it would increase their
real responsibility.
# #
Again, as to Republicanism, there is little
room for doubt that if Sir Hercules Robin-
son had his Australian experiences and ob-
servations in his mind when he formed his
conclusions, his forecast was strictly accurate.
Australia has her snobocracy, who grovel in
sincere and natural abasement at the very
thought of a Royal Court and an aristocracy
being introduced into this country. But
the population as a whole is intensely demo-
cratic, It has had too long experience of the
sheer fictitiousness of class distinctions to be
able to tolerate their presence in any aggra-
vated form among it. Australian settlers
know what an aristocracy is better and more
accurately than the people of Great Britain.
They have seen My Lord, as he might be
seen, as one of a group of shipwrecked
people on a desert island. In Australia
there have been—there is now, indeed —no
lack of slips of noble stocks, trying the
native strength of their energies and abilities
in the inartificial open competition of the
settler's struggle for existence. Australians
have seen My Lord, or My Lord’s brother,
son, or other near kinsman wit h the veneer < ft',
and have perceived that he is made of identical
material with the rest of mankind. They are
not, like their British brethren, affected by
the glamour diffused by a prevalent superior-
ity of condition and circumstance, such as
sheds a spurious glory around the titled
class in the mother country. There are few
Australians in any condition of life who have
pot rubbed shoulders with a scion of nobility
and compared the measure of his qualities
with that of their own, on even terms. It
has become common knowledge that the
titled class—the patent proprietors of aUeged
blue-bljood, and monopolists of fitness for the
highest places in Senate, Army, Navy, and
Diplomacy—possess in sober reality no special
superiority of natural gift whatever. The
Australian knows by collected experience
and comparison of the observations of dif-
ferent individuals that, deprived of revenues
and interest, the heir to a peerage cannot black
boots, mark billiards, tend sheep, split slabs,
ride horses, keep accounts, boss shearers,
manage a station, write an article, debate a
theme., forge a cheque, o,r open oysters better
than Xo>r, Jack, o.r Harry. It is hopeless,
after such opportunities for forming a judg-
ment have b,eeu enjoyed, to attempt to incul-
cate the idea of the divine right of kings, or
the providential superiority of nobles, into the
minds of colonists. They are ready to yie'd
precedence and to entrust power to the
ablest men. But they are hopelessly too
well experienced ever to believe that there
is any virtue in a title, from the regal title
down to that of John Davies. Colonial
Independence is among the certainties of the
future, provided the Colonies he not pirn
maturely sacrificed in one of Britain’s wars,
and reduced to he tributory to a foreign
master. And if colonial independence be
attained, it will be accompanied by Repub-
lican institutions,
The Bar as a Profession in N.S. Wales.
No. II.
“ White-headed” Boys.—Moving the “Stiffs.”
—The Probate Pantomime.- -Assigned for
the Defence. —The Young “Devil” and
the Old ’Un.—Men who have Failed.—
Amalgamation.
(By a More or Less Briefless Barrister.)
Having been duly admitted, the junior has only
to got into good practice. If lie is the son of some
eminent barrister or judge this is easy enough.
He just hoists his shingle and the dollars roll in.
If he has not an eminent father, his best plan is to
invest in a suitable father-in-law. Judges, Q.C.’s,
and attorneys in good practice usually have
daughters capable of making admirable barristers’
wives. If this royal road to eminence be not
available, the junior may have rather a weary time
of it, for of barristers it is true enough that many
are called but few are chosen. Generally the new-
comer is startled a few days after his call by the
gift of a probate, tendered to him as one might
tender a bone to a dog, and entitling him to
receive the sum of £1 3s. (id. whenever the attorney
is generous enough to pay up. Then the heart of
the junior leaps upwards, and he goes out straight-
way and buys a fee-book, which absorbs the odd
3s. (id., and admiring friends hear of his having
got a brief,” and they conjure up anticipations
of the fame the proud holder of the probate will
win by conducting this, his first, case.
Once a junior that we wot of was honoured by
flattering paragraphs in the papers of the day.
As an earnest of the career awaiting him, it was
asserted, in words which we have forgotten, that
a brief was put into his hands the day after
lie was admitted. He took that important brief
round to the Ecclesiastical Court next day and
told the Judge that “ the papers were quite cor-
rect. ” The newspapers carelessly omitted to men-
tion that this promising junior won his case, and
all that the public learned of tins forensic conquest
was compressed in the words ‘ ‘ Probates ; A
Korpse, £135.” Just here we may timidly venture
the remark that the process of moving for probate
in court might seem to some to verge upon the
farcical. The name of the “ stiff ” is called, the
barrister moves that probate be granted and adds
the information that the papers are correct, the
Judge with dignity says “ Take the order,” and
the barrister sits down filled with triumph and
gladness. Sometimes the papers are “ cronk” and
a case has to be cited, but that doesn’t very often
happen.
* # *
Probates are good things for a junior to prac-
tise on. He can’t do any harm to them, and
they “ring in” the coin. But he cannot live on this
work alone ; there are such a lot of claimants for
these favours that the share of each is small. And
besides, they are only pot-boilers and don’t adver-
tise the barrister worth a cent. Some other means
to this necessary end has to be devised. One
method of the art of getting on is the acceptance
of assignments. Suppose a man has no money and
is charged with committing a capital offence—the
Crown, as the just penalty of the double iniquity,
assigns any barrister who is junior enough to be
glad to get a case for nothing, for the defence. This
expedient assists greatly in securing justice.
Many a man has been hanged because of the able
manner in which his assigned defence assisted
the prosecution. On one occasion at least this
practice has shortened a trial considerably. That
was when a not very brilliant junior was assigned
to assist the Crown Prosecutor in convicting a very
intelligent darkie. The latter had pleaded not
guilty but upon being shown his advocate he
promptly withdrew his idea and threw himself on
the mercy of the Court.
# # *
In ordinary capital assignments no fee is paid
by the Crown. Barristers tell you it is not
etiquette to claim anything, but that explana-
tion is too thin. The fact is that there is
no fund out of which anything could be paid,
so that the results of making a claim would
not be gi’eat from a financial point of view. In
the case of aboriginals it is different. A fee is ordi-
narily allowed for their defence, and so it happens
that no “countryman” is without legal “ assistance”
upon his trial. Which may perhaps account for a
certain percentage of convictions. One other
Jacob’s ladder to the forensic heaven is afforded
bv country sessions, which extend considerable
aids to advancement. This class of work has
many advantages. In the first place country briefs
generally carry spot cash ; and further they entail
responsibility rarely conferred upon the raw junior
in Sydney, and in the third place, they are some-
times given by solicitors who actually don’t know
more law than the forensic juvenile himself does—
men who once knew some law hut can’t quite re-
member what it was. Therefore, if he blunders, his
fault is not necessarily discovered, and besides the
knowledge that some one in the profession knows
less than the junior himself is a reflection very
comforting to the latter. Parenthetically we may
mention that when a man is first called he
is prepared to teach the Full Court a lot
of law which lie knows and they don’t; after a
few months he begins to admit that the “ Chiefs ”
opinion when opposed to his own is not necessarily
wrong, and subsequently when he gets into con-
tentious practice he gradually discovers that his
knowledge of the law could ho largely increased
with advantage to his clients. Then he really
begins to learn. Another niethod of getting
ahead is what is known as “devilling.” The
junior becomes “ devil ” to some senior demon who
allovys him to, draft pleadings, write opinions, and
look up points and cases for the senior aforesaid
who receives the fees therefor in due course, the
junior getting for his shave the experience accruing
from the work. Occasionally, too, he receives
other emolument in the shape of junior briefs and
formal matters generously handed over to him by
the senior. This is an arrangement which suits
both parties, and if the junior has any talent,
enables him to work his way to the fertile region,
where the wary “ oof bird ” has her nest.
# * *
If the above methods fail, and if dm junior
knoweth not the solicitors of this honorable Court
or any of them, and hath not an abundant supply
of cheek, energy, and talent, he must fall back
into the ruck of the deserted - men,’'seniors as well
as juniors, whom suitors do not know, and
solicitors do not esteem. The full number of these
men who have failed comprises perhaps one-third
of the total of “practising” barristers. Theirs
must be a sorrowful kind of a life. Even it
private moans suffice there is still the ever-present
reflection that they have failed where others have
succeeded; that in the market of talent their wares
arc unsaleable. Because a man, especially a
junior, fails to make the rent of his chambers onft
of profession, is not always a proof of his want
of his brains or lack of law. He may on the
contrary be both learned and intellectual, hut yet
if he lacks either courage, tact, energy or common-
sense he will almost certainly fail, however much
lie may have been assisted at the outset. Men
who don’t know any law have made their thou-
sands while others who know the text-books from
cover to cover have been making their tens.
Audacity, perception, and resourcefulness enable a
barrister to force his way through where a man
deficient in these attributes cannot enter. We
have not time now to review the complaints which
suitors make concerning the Bar, nor to expatiate
upon what is humourously termed “ etiquette
the latter being a series of unwritten rules under
which the public are slated every time, and the
barristers are forbidden to wear white waistcoats
in court—but we may venture the opinion that
unless the Bar wants to get itself disliked it must
do a lot of things differently. First of ah
it must rip into flinders the present rules
for the admission of barristers, and in the
next place it must cease to obtain money under
false pretences by taking briefs, and the fees
thereon, and then failing to appear in Court. A
very short Bill making the barrister's fee the con-
sideration for a contract instead of, as at present,
an honorarium, would straighten that up, for then
barristers could sue for fees, and would he liable
for negligence if they failed to attend, or failed m
the proper conduct of a case. And, more-
over, the Bar must oease to be a shark m
101) joints or else the work of advocacy will, m
any Courts loss than the Supreme, pass to the
attorneys. Already in some districts attorneys
retain attorneys to conduct their
Court or' Quarter Sessions cases, and this
practice will expand unless the Bar descends
to a commercial appreciation of its true
worth. From amalgamation of the two
branches of the legal profession but little-


benefit may be expected. Advocacy is more
distinct from mere technical legal work than sur-
gery is from medicine, and as the tendency of the
age is to specialism, the generalism implied in
amalgamation would be contrary to the trend of
modern progress. Let the barristers be made
liable for their work and allow them to sue for pay-
ment, and then the monopolising by seniors of
work which they cannot attend to would become a
thing of the past, and juniors and the public
together would share in the tremendous advan-
tages secured by such reform-.
# # *
Taking the profession by small and large it may
be described as a palace for some of its inmates and
a poo chouse for others. When a man is able to
push out of the ruck the aids to his progress are
most potent, but there are a lot of heavy chances
against his doing this. The ball of fame once
kicked is easily kept going at increasing velocity,
but it is mighty hard work to get that first kick.
A mistake made by a junior plays fearful havoc,
but a man in good practice can blunder hideously
without losing any of his capital stock of repute.
If a man is engaged in two courts already it is
taken as a proof of his ability and he gets a brief
to stay away from a third ; if he is not engaged in
any that is deemed to prove him a duffer, and
suitors would not trust him to hold a brief to
register a dog. Every reported appearance in
Court is a new advertisement, and clients rush to
retain a barrister to neglect their cases if they
know he is already neglecting the causes of several
other people. It is somewhat strange that this
should be. For it is manifest that a junior who
can do two or three days’ reading on a case and
attend to it right through is much more likely to
score points than a senior who may open the case
without having read his brief, and address the
jury without having heai-d the evidence. But, as
we have hinted, suitors have a great fancy for
retaining one of the acknowledged leaders of
the profession. And the leaders aforesaid like it.
For if they can “show” in the case so much the
better; if they can’t, they, or let us say some of
them, claim their fees on the ground of their
having studied a brief which has never been
opened, and also on the second plea that their
1 laving been absent for, say, the plaintiff, has
prevented them from being absent on behalf of
the defendant.
* # #
A law enabling barristers to recover their fees
at law would effect a revolution in the pro-
fession. For then barristers could only recover
for work done, and a man who hadn’t done
the work couldn’t recover at all. Therefore,
it would be vain for a senior to accept a brief
which he could not attend to, and the work
generally would be much more evenly distributed.
The prevailing theory that the fee marked is a gift,
not a wage, works to the advantage of the leaders of
the Bar and to the loss of all the rest of the profes-
sion. For aQ. C. can demand and receive the golden
guinea, marked before he absents himself from the
trial, while the junior has to “ chalk it up,” and it
may be months before, “ all excuses ceasing,” the
attorney condescends to pay up. And some
attorneys make it an invariable rule never to
[iay a copper to any member of the j.b. They
cannot be forced to do so, and, therefore, they
emphatically don’t—unless in contentious cases
when their client wins and the “ Protho.” on
taxation refuses to allow the fee marked
unless the barrister has given a receipt for
the amount. But on matters not involved in
taxation the junior may have to wait months,
years, and forever for his dollars, though his land-
lord may become irritable and his tailor insolvent
during what M‘Rae, M.P,, would describe as
“ the mter-regnum.” It is a gigantic error to sup-
pose that barristei-s always get prompt cash; often
they have to wait longer than the Bega-Eden
people have waited for the railway—longer even
than the community has waited for the fulfilment
of the Parkesian promises of Foreign-trade pros-
perity. But the leaders whom solicitors cpmot
afford to offend get their fees quicker than the
ingenious and energetic Mr. Murphy got Holt-
,Sutherland roads in the gopd ohl Casual Labour
Board times.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bigotry in Charity.
The dispute between Cardinal Moran and the re-
presentatives of certain State-aided Sydney
charitable institutions has only one of
genuine public interest. IV hether the Cardinal
exaggerated the circumstances on which lie built
his allegations of bigotry or the committee ex-
tenuated these circumstances is a matter of detail
which leads only to an estimate of purely personal
trustworthiness. But whether or not there is any,
even the smallest actual foundation for the allega-
tions, is a question of national, importance. The
battle of State-aid to religion was fought out years
ago in New South Wales, and the population
finished it off in terms that admit of no misunder-
standing. All sects stand equal before the law,
and when Parliament sanctions an expenditure of
money for a public or charitable all sects
stand equal as participators. That is funda-
mental. The money was raised from the people
without any regard to the religious or non-religious
convictions of any party. That money, when the
State expends it, must return bD the people in the
same way. If any State-aided institution under
the Cardinal draws an invidious distinction be-
tween Roman Catholic and non-Roman Catholic
patients, the voice of the country will m no un-
equivocal tones demand that the State subsidy
shall be withdrawn. If an institution governed
by Protestants and similarly supported by the
State draw an invidious lino between Roman
Catholic and Protestant inmates it is the duty of
the country to call for the ejection of the governors
or the withdrawal of the State grant, I hat is the
principle which has been promulgated and
embraced by the people of New Soutu \Vates.
As a people they reach their hands out to alleviate
human suffering because it is human suffering. As
a people they protest against staining and darken-
ing their repute by any adoption of the bad old-
world practice which made the destitute sufferer
take a quantity of “religion” with every bushel
of flour and every pound of potatoes. If churches
like to establish exclusive charities, they are ato
liberty to do so. They may, if they please, make
creeds the corner-stones of buildings and nurse sick
women and mend broken-legs of men only when
the sufferers are adherents ; but they are not to
expect material recognition from the State, iiiat
is true, without any distinction as to church.
When, therefore, it is alleged that this compact
between a public institution and the State has
s been broken, both the public and the Government
-of the country have duties to perform. Ihe in-
stitution that is found guilty must be either re-
lieved of its governing committee or cast out from
the fold of State-aided institutions. No middle
course can be taken, and time spent in showing
that circumstances have been exaggerated or have
been extenuated is time wasted
The Insult of Home Rule.
Mr-. Duncan Gillies, the smug little autocrat of
Victorian politics, has attained to that period in
his glorious career when he urgently needs
to be squashed. In his wild anxiety to
get the long-delayed title ere he dies, _ this
consequential, badly-put-together embodiment
of exalted mediocrity presumes to say that
any sympathetic reference to the Home Rule
question made ill the Victorian Assembly is “an
insult to every member of the House.” Those are
the very words with which Duncan interrupted
Mr. Shiels last week, when the member for Nor-
manby pointed out that the closure was first intro-
duced as an abortive attempt to wipe out the Irish
National Party in the House of Commons. “Don’t
give us a Home Rule speech*” commanded Dun-
can, panting from “ loyal ” excitement and too
much free feeding without sufficient exercise. ‘ ‘ I
am using an argument,” replied Shiels. Where-
upon the inflated Gillies made the impudent
assertion quoted above. Knowing well enOligh
that a fair proportion of the men in the Victorian
Assembly already advocate Home Rule for Ireland
and that others are only waiting until it becomes
an accomplished fact in order to throw up their
hats for Parnell, why did Mr. Duncan
Gillies let off this most preposterous declara-
tion ? At any minute the present House of
Commons may burst up and a general election put
Gladstone and Home Rule at the top of the poll.
What sort of an insult to the small fry legislators
of Victoria would that be, according to the gospel
of Gillies ! In brief, what did the Penny Pre-
mier mean by belching forth his remark
with such fury ? He meant “ loyalty ’’ to
the Throne, an ancient piece of furniture
which is creaking with distress at the in-
evitable coming of Ireland’s emancipation.
Perhaps Duncan expected it to be cabled home
and published in the Morning Post —“ The Pre-
mier of Victoria says that any mention of Home
Rule is an insult to his House.” But whatever
may have been his incidental hopes and aspira-
tions, it is clear that the main idea of this tinpot
Tory was loj alty with a very big L, Any com-
ment upon Home Rule is an insult to the Queen,
you see, and Duncan, who represents each member
of the Victorian Assembly in his own podgy person,
shares every thought of his royal mistress. Their
hearts beat as one. The noble Lord, Tom Beassey,
has disclosed to us, through the medium
of a London paper, how Duncan proudly
told him that the democratic tendencies of
the colony were covered up by_ the ultra
“loyalty” of the men holding “high official”
positions, whose public utterances are reported in
full by the local press. “ So long as we remain at
the head of affairs,” said Gassev to Bbassey,
“ Republicanism has no chance to assert itself
here.” And “loyalty” being the beginning,
middle, and end of the Premier’s political system,
the wherefore of that monstrous fiction about
H ome Rule and'insult is explained. Why every
member of the House sat still under this hideous
imputation can only Vie explained by the supposi-
tion that most of them did not grasp the situation.
Ere now, perhaps, it has dawned upon them that
they allowed themselves to be used en masse for
the furtherance of the great high official system,
and possibly they are dimly conscious that they
(or such of them as have a soul of their own) can
suffer no greater insult than is involved in
the dominion of Duncan Gillies. We wish
him no harm. We merely say once again that the
time has arrived for metaphorically squashing
him flat. Mr. Duncan Gillies is an “insult ” to
Australian national aspirations,
♦
The; Baptist newspaper in London has a smart
American clergyman going round and writing
columns on how such Baptist lights as Spurgeon
and MacLaren live at home. The article on
Spurgeon is a sarcastic masterpiece, which the
editor has evidently not seen through. The
American clergyman interviewed Spurgeon at his
superb residence, Beulah Hill, and says it is the
nicest place in London ! Indeed the Yankee
parson had qualms about it and asked Spurgeon,
“How do you reconcile this with self-denial?”
Spurgeon cleared it all up. He is only keeping
Beulah Hill till it reaches the maximum of value,
when lie will give it to the Lord ! Oh, Spurgeon !
Go and ask the Lord straightway about it. The
reply willbe, “ ‘Sell at once and pay the money into
the Treasury. ’ Then go and live in a three-
roomed 'weatherboard house with a detached
kitchen.” Spurgeon also has a delicious carriage,
fine horses, and a first-class liveried footman. All
to be made over to the Lord ! We have just been
reading Beecher’s new life. What an example
for Spurgeon I Beecher held on to his Beulah
Hill too long. Then ensued Mrs. Tilton, with all
the ignominy of verbatim newspaper reports, with
the published letters about “ Nest-hiding,” “True
Inwardness,” and the red satin lounge, Yes,
Beqlah Hill must lie auctioned at once. “Going
at fifty thousand! Once at fifty thousand, twice
at fifty thousand, third and last time at fifty thou-
sand, if you’re all done! Last call ! (hammer
smack) your’s, sir. Mr. Jahalabel Methusaleh,
of Petticoat Lane.” “S’help me, am I to draw
my cheque for the Lord?’’ “Oh, come, none of
your jokes, Methusaleh.”
« ———
The Argus reprints from some “home” news-
paper or magazine the information that among
those who were tried and executed by the revolu-
tionary tribunal of Paris in 179-1 was one Arthur
Dillon, “ whose specific crimes were that he had
endeavoured to procure the dissolution of the
national representation, the destruction of the
public government, the extinction _ of the
sovereignty of the people, and .the erection of a
tyrant in France.” Now, to the average mind,
this annihilation of Arthur Dillon, during a
period of national excitement when everybody was
being wiped out more or less, suggests nothing in
particular, because it is quite too late to feel sorry
for the poor man. But the Argus, after racking
its dull old brain for a perverted idea, has the
audacity to allege that “ the offences imputed to
a Dillon then and a Dillon now bear an
extraordinary resemblance.” In a word, the
Argus inferentially accuses Mr. John Dil-
lon, the Home-Ruler, of doing exactly the
opposite to that which has been the
work of his life. Mr. John Dillon’s pro-
gramme includes the establishment_ (nut dissolu-
tion) of national representation in a national
parliament, the construction (not destruction) of
an Irish public government, and the righteous
assertion (not extinction) of the sovereignty of the
people. And what, in the name of the Father of
Tory lies, does the Argus mean by insinuating
that Home Rule involves the erection of a tyrant
in Ireland ? If the Dillon now, like the Dillon
then, has a tyrant in his mind’s eye, the contem-
plated despot must be Tummy. But it is too
serious a matter for joking upon. Not satisfied
with garbled cable “ news ” about' what Parnell
didn’t say, and leading articles in which every
Home Rule fact is twisted the wrong way, the
Argus uses even its “ Continental Gossip to
poison public opinion regarding the Irish delegate.
This comparison drawn between the two Dillons
may seem too ludicrous for serious notice, but
those who laughed at it probably forgot that the
Argus caters for wealthy ignorance and influential
stupidity, which swallow “loyal” hogwash without
asking any questions.
♦ _
Since the Melbourne police authorities failed to
hang one Cutler for the murder of a Chinaman,
they are closing their ears against all private in-
formation tending to implicate any other indivi-
dual in that gory tragedy. From time to time
somebody declares that lie can give a name to the
actual murderer, yet the police, ordinarily so
anxious for a conviction, are slow to take any steps
which might lead to an exposure of their original
pig-headed blunder. Past experience of the Force
teaches us that they will, when the spirit moves
them, arrest a whole cart-load of inoffensive
citizens upon the shallowest of pretences, if only
the faintest shadow of an unwarranted suspicion
attaches to them. Therefore, the present reluc-
tance of the Melbourne d.’s to “go for” anybody
bar Cutler —who can’t be gone for again on the
dead Chinaman’s account —looks remarkably like
an official conspiracy to check the course of jus-
tice. What else means this inspired statement in
a Melbourne paper ? “The police authorities are
not inclined to believe that there is much ground
for supposing that after all another man will have
to be tried for the murder ?” What does that
mean except either a frank admission of police im-
potence or a scandalous attempt to fix the crime
upon Cutler, once and for all ? However, the
Crown Law Department is understood to have
this notorous murder case under consideration,
and the police will need to show more smartness
than popular opinion credits them with if they are
to succeed in preventing a number of ugly dis-
closures from coming to light (another man has
now been arrested, but it appears to be the wrong
one again),
♦
The New South Wales Anglican Synod lias met in
ecret conclave to elect a bishop, and has picked
three unknown persons, living in a foreign country,
as candidates from whom the Anglican Primate
of Australia will ultimately be chosen. One of
these candidates is named Saumaeez Smith, which
(as we have heard every other name under Heaven
save Saumarez tacked on to Smith) must be held
to fill a long-felt want. But how long do the
clergymen and congregations of Australia intend
to endure this ghastly procession of Imperial
Federation lecturers to and from their vineyard ?
Australian clergymen are accused of a deficiency
in priestly qualities, and of exhibiting a want of
zeal in their calling, but what else can be expected
to result from a system that utterly closes to them
not only the highest avenues to distinction in their
profession (regarding the ecclesiastical profession
from a worldly standpoint), but even all hope of
secondary advancement, inasmuch as each new
Bishop imports his own friends and gives them pre-
ferment to the utmost of his opportunities- —
this latter system being the logical outcome of
his own importation. If Australian-bred and Aus-
tralian-reared clergymen are not fit to be Austra-
lian bishops neither are they fit for enrolment in
the rank and file of sacerdotalism,
Tigers have got scarce in India since the
days of Rajah Inglis. The young gentleman with
the sloping forehead who comes to Australia “on
furlough,” after being aide-de-camp to the Guvnah,
dontcherknow, and who bores you with tigah per-
juries, will soon be as played out as John Davies.
Our friend the medical expert again ! lit
an affiliation case at Ballarat, in which the puta-
tive father was a man of colour, and the complam-
an ta white woman, a doctor swore, for the defence,
that the verv improper baby had not a trace of
negro blood! But the Bench, having inspected
the youngster, decided that it was a child of colour
and ordered defendant to pay up.
Editor Bulletin.—Sir,—'The disgusting maun r
in which the proceedings iu the N.S.W. Divorce Courr.
are being dished up by a certain daily paper wi 1
surely bring 1 its own reward— nt the bottom of the do An-
drade. While the prisoner Buttncr was under sentence of
death this paper, apparently for the purpose of piling’ on
the agony, inserted an untruthful statement to the effect
that the prisoner had been previously convicted. W hen
Buttner was set free, after the girl Lennox had confessed,
this miserable print had the impudence to censure the
police for the manner in which the prosecution was con-
ducted I— A.Z.
When Mr. Walter Madden visited Sydney
with the Victorian Water Commission be stayed
at the Royal Hotel. The morning after his arrival
he got up early and started for the top of the
building thinking that he might be able to view
the bay from that elevation. On the way he met
a waiter.” I suppose I can see from the top of the
stairs this beautiful harbour of yours that people
talk so much about ? ” “ Beautiful Harbour, sir ? ”
“ Yes,” said Mr. Madden, “Sydney Harbour.”
“Sydney Harbour I Never heard of it. sir.” re-
pliod the waiter
An Agnostic Wail
[FOR THE BULLERIN.]
.“The night is dark, and I am far from home.”
Ca rdinal Neinn«n,
Yea, old man, the deepening gloom,
Lit up for thee, broods o’er our souls.
No angel faces wait for us ;
Dark, dark is all beyond the tomb.
We wait and watch, with anxious care,
Some token from the Unseen Land ;
But blacker grows the hovering mist,
And wistful hearts thy “ faith ” can’t share.
We hear thee vouch that thou dost see
A brightening star that leads thee on ;
We strain our eyes to catch a glimpse
Of coming morn, so clear to thee I
But only shadows flit across
The silent, starless skies—apd night
Reigns pn—while we, with faltering feet,
Seek other refuge than the Cross,
Q ! blame ns n°t, old man, if we
See po liyht there. The “ Crucified,”
To us, lies in His Syrian grave,
Partaker pf map’s destiny.
To ps ; “ All that begins must end ”
Is law, deep writ in Nature’s face.
Quenched seems all life with ending breath,
Whate’er the Church's creed pretend.
As pain-drops lost op ocean’s face,
As ripples on the placid lake,
As summer cloud that flits away,
And leaves upon the sky no trace—
So pass we on —a hastening stream,
To Death’s unfathomed stormless sea.
We gain the brink, slip o’er the edge,
And ended is life’s fevered dream,
February, 1889.
J.R.
A Literary Competition.
A Bulletin Man Competes for the Parthenon
(a Sydney Ladies’ Paper) Prize. —Friend-
ship between Girls. —Friendship between
Men. —Friendship between “ Boys ” and
Girls.
“A volume of Kingsley is offered for the best essay on
‘Friendship.’ The composition must not exceed 1000
words, and Is open to gentlemen only.”— Parthenon.
Dear Editress, —We will classify our few Remarks
on Friendsllip under three headings, making a
hysterical start With
Friendship between Girls.
This is a short-lived sentiment, largely depen-
dant upon the state of the Weather. It ripens
most rapidly on long, cold days, when two ,Or inert ;
girls love to linger round the fire, With arms
twisted round one another, talking about their
newest things in wearing apparel. On such occa-
sions the girl of the house displays her latest
exchanges for poor pa’s money to the visiting girl,
who says : “ O ! how lovely, but wait till you come
over to my place;” To which the first girl
replies : “ I’m sure you must look sweet in
it, ” and then they implant cold, chaste kisses upon
their respective cheek-bones, and the friend-
ship looks like lasting until the crack Of
Doom, but it doesn’t. This class of friendship
reaches boiling-point while they are trying on each
other’s bonnets, and simmers along pleasantly for
several hours, maybe. It is generally cooled down
by the arrival of anything in the shape of a per-
fidious man, unless he is very old indeed and has
no teeth. Sometimes a girls’ friendship will sur-
vive the advent of even a middle-aged bachelor if
he comes from the Blind Asylum on two wooden
legs. But such instances rarely occur. On fine
days, when they can get out of doors and do; the
Block, there is no friendship whatever between
girls of sense, and of many million attempts to
keep the sentiment pure and holy right, through a
picnic, ball, or carpet-dance, not one has ever suc-
ceeded. It can’t be satisfactorily maintained for ten
minutes at a scientific conversazione, not if the
curate is there. We cannot say more under this
heading without exceeding 1000 words, but will
conclude with suggesting that Friendship between
Girls is like Snakes in Ireland, which are not
there.
Friendship between Men
is a more robust article, capable of lasting a life-
time if they both drink fair and are careful not to
go mashing together. Sometimes two xneu may
mash two girls without injuring the friendship,
but there is always a chance of the mash getting
mixed, and then David and Jonathan cease to
speak as they pass by. But as long as they stick
to the flowing bowl and don’t go fooling round the
shrine of Venus in company their friendship in-
creases even as their days do grow.
# # #
We have seen two men weep with mutual affec-
tion after the second bottle, and sometimes they
love one another so much that they become limp
and fall under the table. There is comparative!\
little friendship between married men, however,
except where their wives agree nicely, and wives
only agree nicely when their husbands stop out late
together, and they can simultaneously curse tip*
day when they were born, and make their domestic
unhappiness a joint-stock affair, But we are get-
ting on to Mamed Women’s Friendship, for
which there is no room in 1000 words. Returning
to our text we may mention that a decent friend-
ship between three, or even more, men is possible,
provided they conduct it on the clearly defined
lines of odd man keep standing out, and Die last
two toss. But the practice pf having “a shilling-
in ” is bad for friendship.
And now, 4<**F Editress, having beaten about
the bush, so to speak, apd uncovered the two
wrong peas, as you might say (but won’t say,
because it is a nasty, low, raeecoursey simile that
you have no wish to understand) wp will );oneh
upon the delicious subject of
Friendship Between Girls and “Boys.”
This is something that always deepens into love
in good society, if the girl is anyway smart. We
would respectfully advise any girl to “go in lemons ”
for quiet, steady, harmless, Platonic friendships,
and if she has three Platonic friendships going aj
once it is good enough to order the wedding-dress
and aWaiJ results. 'When a single fellow gets into
the warm, plump confidence of an unconsan-
guineons gift whp agrees to regard Ipm as a
brother, lie might as well give Jier best and buy
11 ie license, y iewing these Platonic arrangements
from afar off, it seems easy to Ijaye a “ sister ”
who isn’t your sister, and kiss her brow ip an un-
irapassipned manner prey ions to inquiring : “ Well,
little one, how ljav ( e you been behaving spice yes-
terday afternoon ?”
But it is not so easy- when you .come tp the pinch,
and it always does come to a pinch—a simple
Platonic pressure between two sis‘erly fingers, pf
a portion of the arm near to tl|e vaepinatiop
marks—-if the girl knows her book. ft is by such
calm, collected, half-uiieopg.cious tricks pf friendship
that Adolphus is secured. The flirtation pinch is
a giddy, meaningless, painful thing compared with
the Plate nic variety, which is-confiding, comfort-
ing and singularly suggestive of a snug, five-
roomed cottage newly furnished. A properly-
managed friendship between a “boy” and a girl
becomes marriage at the shortest possible
with no “engagement” in between, .Engage-
ments are long" and risky, but friendships are
short and almost certain. Foolish virgins like to
become engaged for the sake of a ring, usually the
only ring they ever get, whereas wise virgins prefer
a Platonic attachment to commence with, and
very soon they have a husband bringing home
articles of jewellery for Popsy twice a week and
oftener if Popsy has a bad headache.
But these remarks apply to couples moving in
highly respectable society. A fellow may enjoy
vast quantities of friendship with barmaids with-
out once dreaming of matrimony. Yet there is no
more beautiful kind of communion of souls than
that existing between the young bar-lady and her
boy. It is only one boy at a time, and they are
just like brother and sister while his glass is kept
pretty busy.
Platonic friendships with barmaids involve a
certain daily expenditure on cut blossoms, which
the girls wear for a while and then send down to
the cellarmau with best love and kisses.
The Platonic pnich across the bar differs some-
but, there! we’ve exceeded the limit. Please
strike out ail words over 1000, taking ’em just as
they come, and send along the prize.
The Bulletin is requested by Messrs. Balchm,
Johnston, and Co., of Bond-street, agents for Messrs. M.
B. Foster, of London, to intimate that a quantity of beer
and stout of inferior quality has lately been sold in Aus-
tralia, such bottles having affixed to them skilfully forged
labels. Foster’s genuine beer bears the “Bugle Brand,”
and all casks and capsules of Hie real Foster bear the
name and add- r ‘«s of the firm


Everybody sh
Patent Roi.i.kji
onld use Pemell’s latest best Snw-wiiitr
Ei.our. It is. the greatest success of the
SJ>N3O\/
y
L.I
cl
O
s
I
s
T
O
11
OELISSA& PHILLIPS
Street.
[?]
846 Maoquarie-street North, Sydney, June 19,1559.
Mv Dear Moorabixda, —
The second vice-regal reception at Sydney Government
House on the 13th was chiefly remarkable for the fact that
those people who don bright yellow gloves in the hope of
putting Lady Carington’s knuckles out of joint were dis-
appointed, “Her Excellency ” not being on view, owing to
u pardonable indisposition. The poor, bored Baron there-
fore received the full shock of over-scented, gushing Potts
Point alone and unprotected. Fortunately for his Lordship
the day was damp and drizzly and there were few callers
(comparatively, though if the same horde swooped into a
private house the inmates would be scared on to the roof).
Most who went wore frocks with weird wardrobe-y creases
about the draperies and traces Of the common or garden
fish-moth in the hems. Mrs. Admiral Fairfax appeared in
a copper-shot silk skirt, with narrow stripe of design at
the side, a black velvet and passementerie visile, airy
Parisian bonnet ornate with moire ribbon and plumes en
suite , and tied on with green spotted tulle strings ; Miss
Walenn, a grey tailor-built gown with white vest, small
hat ornate with dark-blue velvet and white wings. Mrs.
Hoffnung, black silk with beaded dolraanette and crimson
bonnet. Everybody else wore a “ bunch ”of violets, a boa,
and tan gloves —apropos of which I hear that they are at
last going out of fashion after an unprecedented run,
gloves made of “chevrette” being the “latest” fad—a
make that one can get in every colour at J. L. Hordern’s,
in Pitt-street.
Apropos of the reception, a great improvement was the
introduction of forks. Previously society worried its bun
in its fingers, free-luncheon style, and cheerfully sacrificed
a pair of gloves each time, but now the pronged instru-
ment is wielded with the happiest results, so far, though
I sincerely hope mine of the forks were missing when the
butler made his count.
And speaking of refreshments, 1 hear of a lady who had
sampled the very “ornery” snack provided at a certain
Australian Government House and didn’t fully approve of
the style. At the next reception she turned up with a
sausage-roll in her hand-bag, and ordering a “ cup o’
korfy” from Jeames, stealthily disinterred the roll and
proceeded to make out of it a little meal that she could
“stummick,” to the intense delight of the footmen.
A brand new, bashful bride was lately taken by her
devoted Henry to vegetate far “up-country” where
female grown-up help was conspicuously absent. Fora while
she contented herself with a boy-assistant, but finding that
adolescence doesn't shine in connection with the com-
missariat she, one day when several people were in the
kitchen and she hadn't made a success of the dumplings,
iurned pettishly to her factotum with, “I wish, John,
you knew where I could get a general servant.” “ Sorry
I don’t missus,” he replied, meditatively. “ but if you
wanted a nursegirl, now, 1 could get one to-morrer!”
After that, she never applied to John in the presence of
strangers.
Here is some more on the everlasting servant ques-
tion. A squatter’s wife braved the perils of a Sydney
registry-office, the other day, and, selecting a high-priced
cook, was sharply put through her paces by the prospec-
tive “help.” Query No. 1 was, of course, “Where d'yez
live?” “At Mud Hollow.” “Humph! Near the town-
ship?” “Only four miles out.” “Any skatin’ rinks up
there?” “Not one, lam thank—— ” Negotiations ended
here. Bridget wasn’t agoin’ to take no place where there
isn’t no rinkin’.
Servants are, indeed, dreadfully festive in these days.
The other morning I found a good-natured girl
friend actually stretching a pair of long white kid-
gloves which she told me were for the housemaid, who
was going to a ball. The girl’s “ ball-dress’’ was of mauve
satin, and cost eight guineas ! But ought we not be glad
that we live in a country where it is so easy for anyone
who does not mind honest work to make a living and, at
i lie same time, to enjoy some of the small luxuries so dear
to all womankind ? Better to see even uneducated ser-
vants in vulgar splendour than to live and have one’s
being in a social atmosphere which gives birth to the follow-
ing, which I read in an English newspaper just to hand :
“ Two ladies in reduced circumstances will attend
private houses and superintend the cooking of din-
ners for not more than ten persons for half-a-gninea.
Luncheons, ss.
The authorities of the Crystal Palace Skating Rink,
Sydney, intend holding a very new sort of carnival at
an early date, to be called the “ Press Carnival," when
the linkers are to impersonate the various Sydney papers
ami a prize is to be awarded to the best representative of
each paper. Ingenious idea, isn’t it ? But I should like
to know what kind of girl will come out as an evening
daily ! Fancy a corsage consisting of ‘‘Details of the
Divorce Court ” with “ Full particulars of the inquests”
over a skirt of “ Horrible confessions of a hangman ”
trimmed with herbalists’ advertisements !
The second Sydney reunion came off at Need’s rooms'on
11th inst. when a good attendance and some nice dresses
resulted. The only generalisation lam able to make don- 1
mu lling the affair is that girls who look like wraiths of (he
(esthetic era should not. spoil the soulfulness of perspec-
tive by high-heeled shoes.
So it is reported that Prince George of Wales, Tummy’s
younger son, will be attached to a vessel in the Australian
auxiliary squadron. Dow t ruly joyful ! And yet when
you come to look at. it, there isn’t half so much hope in
spooning a prince as there is in conquering a common
Honourable, or something like that. The best His High-
ness could offer v (..-.ld lie a morganatic alliance, and for
the rest—well
He dances like a draught horse and Ids manners aren’t Just
as gorgeously impressive as the lower upper crust;
He’s podgy and he’s guttural, and he dearly loves a feed.
And much resembles his papain—yes ! ho does, indeed I
I;read that in the “great centres” those who learn
dressmaking are now taught-—besides cutting out and;
fitting—Euclid, drawing, and painting in watercolours!
The result; of course, is, or ought to be, really an- artistic
creation, and one ceases to wonder that the lingo ofi the
art, critic has to be called in to adequately describe some
of the latest toilettes, for they really arc nothing less than,
‘* tone poems” and,“symphonies of,colour.”
At the recent secret meeting of,the N.S.W. Synod; when,
all “ outsiders ” were kept out oh the sanctuary while the
sacred few within endeavoured to elect a bishop, a police-
man was stationediat the door of the Chapter House to
stem,the crowd. Am inquisitive man who interviewed
this worthy on the subject tells me that lie said; “Be-
gorra, the min was aisy enough to, prevint; but the
fay males,! 1 If they conld-atoni me uniform and* scratched
n>e face it wouldn’t have quoited ’em. Blarney first, and'
thin, be me sowl, if they didn’t use language they, were
purty near it.” How women dp love to hang on, to the
skirts of the clergy,!
Society people are about to eschew thejieat and becoim
ing toque hat because these lady-like and tidy, topknots
are becoming quite too horribly common, my dear—all the
low people wear them now. The rakish Gainsboro’, how- •
ever, still keeps “in”—a shape that is much affected by
the gentle police-court lady, who tilts it down to her left
shoulder on the one side and piles several tons of contrast-,
ing “austrich” feathers on the oilier and is satisfied.
Society had better keep to the toque.
TJre last night of,the “Bachelors” revival at Sydney
Criterion saw such a packed bouse that I ; think the man-
agement ought to run the comedy for another week. The
d,c. was arrayed in purple and fine linen, and Mrs. Brough
wore exactly the same gowns as she did when she played
the part of “ Mrs. Saxby ” last year.
lam requested to announce that , the Balmain Bp,vying
Club hold meir annual ball on the 26th prox. at the local
Town Hall; also, that the Pharmacists’ annual ball even-
tuates at Needs’ rooms on the 28th instant, the same date
being fixed for "the first garrison dance at Victoria Bar-
racks.
The Maori footballers are a fine set of men and can’t dis-
guise the fact although they wear “ slick” black jerseys
which make them look their very slimmest. The prevail-
PHOTO. BY BARBAUD, LONDON.
MISS LILIAN TREE.
ing lint on the lawn on Saturday (it was a beautiful day)
was green, in every conceivable variation, and as we are
getting rather tired of this hue I shall not enthuse over
the many green gowns I admired,' but simply tell you how
I liked a tan cloth with braidings in a darker tint, fawn
straw pork-pie hat with fawn wings ; a gobelin-blue cloth
with revers of grey moire, sash of moire and blue velvet
toque with grey moire ribbons; an Indian red cloth en
polonaise over an embroidered front in gold braiding—
which had a gorgeously Oriental appearance and well be-
came its dusky-haired wearer: while a pearl-grey red-
ingote over a braided silver vest with draped jupe of silk
en suite —worn with long grey fur boa and wide “picture”
hat ornate with silver lace, grey plumes and moire ribbons
—was decidedly the daintiest gown I saw.
Mr. George Walton, of Melbourne, at present visiting
Sydney, has become a member of the N.S.W. Art Society.
The society’s next exhibition takes place in October, when
Mr. Walton will show something.
Myra Kemble’s farewell matinee at Sydney Royal on
15th was a brilliant success. Every available seat in the
the theatre had been secured weeks ahead, and Lord and
Lady Carington and suite lent a “ V.R.” aroma to the
tearful proceedings. In a gown of. heliotrope poplir,
which I described to you very recently, and pec; •
sionally inhaling the perfume pf a huge bouquet
provided by a chivalrous management, Lady Car-
ingtOn gracefully sat in the “ Royal ” box, backed
up by Miss Davency in a well-fitting gown of black
cloth and small black hat trimmed with pale-blue
silk, and Miss Walenn in a white-vested grey tailor-built
frock. The Baron wore a camellia in bis coat, and used his
lorgnettes a great deal while Carrie Swain sang and
danced; and “K.W.,” who hasn’t yet departed for the
Cabbage Plot, sat with his hands in Ins pockets. As usual
at matinees the dressing was sombre, though the d.c,. was
crammed with women and the day was delightful. Even
the always perfectly-groomed beneficiare hadn’t put on
quite her prettiest frocks; she spoke her farewell in a
creamy-greeny robe of “artistic cut” (which means
general bagglness in straight. Philistine) with a huge sash
of yellow silk, though she looks best in “ severe ” frocks
and knows it, At the conclusion of the 3rd act of
“Clancarty” much floral tribute was showered on her,
one strange device, half table, half umbrella, being levered
out of a stage box, while a rather Pickwickian bouquet of-
arum lilies was observed to hurtle from the stalls. After
the performance of “ Written in Sand ”—that comedietta-
over which amateurs- come to grief so often and so
signally—Miss Kemble made a parting speech, brief - and l
eminently satisfactory.
On Tuesday morning,, 25th inst., Mrs.-Admiral Fairfax'
will lay the foundation-stone of the Royal Naval House in
Charlotte Place in the presence of 1 Lord’ and Lady-
Caringtom
Whilst riding recently, I! came on- our warriors sham-
fighting Botanywards. One gallant officer’s- gee-gee-
merely kicked a fly off its girthsnvhen off came its rider
right over its head. The animal stood' still and regarded*
its. Napoleon in a; reproachful kind'of.' way,
Tiie “ annual audit ” of) the singing pupils of Miss F.
Gordon took place on the afternoon of (the 15th inst. when'
the principal item ion the card was Abt’s cantata; “The
Isle of Song,” which was very creditably performed by the
pupils, assisted by. Mrs. Warren..
M correspondent writes, in t a derisive tone about the
opening of the railway to Cooma (N.S.W.) It seems that!
when the Postmaster-General and' a; select following
arrived by ffee special, .the local procession, of'welcome
was far away, from the station and the landing.was sadly
accomplished in the critical presence oLa small boy and 1 a
stoker. Ultimately; the Mayor arrived, getting- into his
robes as he flew, and fired a long-, address at the crashed
group; but, to quote my informant, “ nothing compel ••
sated for the flatness of the arrival, .except the prospect of
the feed.”
An old Melbourne lady heard thather son, ,a:gay young,
spark noy on a visit to Sydney, was about to marry in
that city some female upknowp... This startling intelli-
gence readied her just half Tan-hour before the time at;
which the mail-train departed. So she packed her port-
manteau,, got into a yab, and boarded the train with only*
£5 in her pocket—there wpt} no,, time to visit the bank.
Ten minutgs after reaching. Sydney; she had her pocket:
artistically picked, and stood on the rai 1 way -platform of a
strange city without ,a ognt. The moral may he filled in
to please yourself,
Have you noticed . ho,\y, often- the giddy women cor»,
needed with divorces are named Clara ? My broth *.
Reggie, who is studying for the Bar, tells me that the
divorce-reports' simply teem vVi'th the names of ttrihg
Claras. I don’t know'how to account for it—for the name is
by' no means a common 1 one,' nor is it to mfe specially
fascinating. An English Judge used to say thai nine out'
ten divorced women were grey-eyed. I wonder whether 1
our Claras are grey-eyed ?
The N.Z. towns are but small compared with the
“ metropolises ’> of Australia 1 , 1 but the Maorilander can give
ns points at bringing off social functions on a big Scale. I
remember some years ago being'at a* ball given at Wel-
lington by Lady Vogel and Lady Stout, at which there
were 1200 dancers, and now 1 read th'dt 'Mayor Dilthie, of
Wellington, welcomed the Orlslows 'oh Queen’s Birthday
with a ball attended by 800. 1 ■ 11 * '
Lot me conclude, dear, by placing- before you an adver-
tisement iwhich someone has- sent to me; markfed in the
Clevedon (N.Z.) Mercury 1 "
WANTED;-', a really plain but experienced and
V efficient Governess for three girls, eldest 10.
Music, French, and German required. Brilliancy of
conversation, fascination of manner, and symmetry of
form objected to, as the father is much at home, and
there are grown-up sons. Address Mater, Post Office,
Clevedon.
I have never heard it more candidly put.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO AMITH.
Australians ! the only book in which the
story of your country is truly told is The Bulle-
tin’s “Illustrated History of Botany Bay,” adver-
tised on the cover of the present number of this
journal.
During a debate in the N.Z. Parliament,
some years ago, on it motion of Vogel’s there
were two amendments discussed. On division,
Wakefield, the mover of one of them, voted for
the other. “ Why, Wakefield,” says Vogel, “yon-
are like the Homan father Yirginius, killing his
own daughter.” “ Yes,” replied Wakefield, “ but
it was to save her from Appius.”
CORRSPONDENCE
“ Constant Reader ” (Lismore) : (1) “ Self-regis-
tration of Votes” is"the system which requires that
each person qualified as an elector shall, on registering lus '
vote, communicate personally with the Registrar, who’
suppliesdiim with ah* “ elector’s* right,” which has to lie
produced at'the poll and is’there stamped by the return-
ing officer, to prevent its being used a second time. This
simple expedient 1 renders roll-stuffing and impersonation 1
very difficult. (2) We would prefer to contribute to the
Pennsylvanians. (3) Not enough “Fiat Justitia”h
Thanks “ Lunatic” : Received “W.E.li”; Good
sentiment, hut we don’t; as'a rule, like publishing verses s '
that are not original.... “ A.G.S.” (Gympie): Thanks ; wilt*
consider “A.E.”: But hOW many accidents have oc-
curred on the N.S.W. railways since the three’Commis-
sioners came into power ? “J. Walker'” (G.); Thanks.
Afraid the party would have no show there just no#
“Theodore Kluppins” (Brisbane): Thanks. ... “Okh
I T.' 8 R.”‘: Clipping received “ NomSuhscriher ” :
Matter done to death “ Random” (Narandera): Com-
municate with the N.S.W. Land Department*
“J.J,” (Ballarat): Many thanks.... “ A*. Chee”; Will!
read i... ‘ ■ Leapfrog ” (Sandhurst) : Many thanks “R;
Blades”: Yes, thank you “Jimmy Pannikin”::
Good, but too “steep.”.... “Mount Barker” (S.A.):
Thanks. Handed to. artist-....“ F. A. B.” (Vic.): Ext-
cellent stories,... “E.D.” (Railway Camp): To hand,
[Man,y. letters held la-, n [.
The Marble Map lifts kept: his, pecker tip*
for a year or, sq,by the aid oftMarshall’ss
Tonic Nervine. '
A Queensland, a, heading,' “ Mem
and Things,” One of thq. first .paragraphs, is about:
Mrs. Campbqll, Praed.
Harold FinchrHafcton, who, gave The,
Bulletin a V|ig puff in his book “ Advance Aus-
tralia,” visits. Sydney- shprtly to. attend a cable-
conference.
General Bqplapger knows h.is way round.’.
He has issued an, annopppenient, “ Gentlemen of.
the Press will bq rqcqived, l,O. to 12 a.m.”'
That is. just about, thp tjnjq that th.e average even-
ing neysp^pe.r,man feqlsin want of a “snifter.”
Speajdpg.of, a. new Indies’ Qosfcume a new;.
Melbourne fasluQibiyrjtqr says.:-—“Some of the.-
open coats,are made to, show a, large waistcoat i
space.”'” By they have to be, if..they\are»-
to be worn by some of, the. ladies we meet in *
“- sassiefy.”
When a newspaper reporter. says- that an *
arraigned prisoner is a hideous-looking villain ”
are Aye'to assume that hp regards-his proprietor’s »
face ah the standard of, manly beauty? We re-
commend this, subject t|o,the attention of. suburban .*
debating societies.
It is runioured thitb a com,p;uiy is - pro-
jected for the sale of Aiista’aliai), wines ,on a large
'dale in L'ppdpn aptliPajris, A, most excellent pro-»
ject, truly.' All, tljat pq\v: remains is.-to. float i
another''company.fpr..'!>()&, of. Austra-
lian wines op' a’hirge sqalq, seeing, that, the country, ,
u’nder' present,' cjpriaitjpnp, contributes no more
than a niere dipp,tp)Yur l (Jis.tbp,oPoau ol grape.-juce, •
lapped up.
A case \yith a apeipnt flavour about it
is being qpt, ip, tflp Ijinglisfl law-courts.
Borcl llchester disputes right of Weymouth i
dhhcruieiVtqply their,, pets in the Fleet near that i
town, ‘ana bates his. right on, a charter issued by •.
l>ing C'aimte, whi]etjjg fishermen in defending the •
stiit take their stand Qt) Magna Charta, and assert i.
that a king who, gaye. spelt a gift gave what was .
not his own.
The “ Knights, of Labour” have estab-
lished an organisation at Auckland (N.Z.) on the
same line's as the American society. The excep-
tions tp those eligible for election in America are
what iife termed thp “four fleecing classes” —
oVokers^'jankers, lawyers, and liquor-dealers. If i
this idea is' carried out in Auckland, the roll of ■,
membership iyi|l not be large, for there the four .
fffecihg classes mentioned could play a lone hand
just now against, any combination.
It, is said the Czar intends to visit Paris
Exhibition, and that the Parisians are preparing
for him a brilliant welcome. This recalls the fact
that there is now on the Island of Non in New
Caledonia a convict who took part in the welcome
to Czar Alexander 11. when that Emperor visited
Pfirifi Exhibition of 18G7. The convict, Berezovski,.
a' Pole, determined to avenge the wrongs of his
country, fired point-blank at the head of the
Emperor as the latter with Napoleon 111. drove .
through the crowded street. Berezovski has a
little room to himself, apart from the other con-
victs, and is allowed to roam about the island as
he pleases. He cultivates a small garden, not by
compulsion, but because lie likes flowers, and the
rest of his time he devotes to newspapers and
magazines. He is now a white-headed old man, i
and from the day of his transportation his conduct
has been in the highest sense irreproachable.


|cn franklin sprinting •'lgffice
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. IYI. MACLARDY
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, See., &c.,
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates. A Large Stock of
(ho best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
SUITABLE FOR
(Near Wynyard Street).
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Sydney shows for coming week.
Theatre R0ya1.............. “Union Jack.”
ITer Majesty’s “ Romany Rye.”
Opera House “ The Beggar Stfrdeifr.”
( Criterion “Money ”
The Cyclorama..... The Battle bt <s'ettysbui£.
Darlingiiurst Skating Rink ......... Darliughurst.
Elite Skating Rink Redfern.
Crystal Palace Skating Rink York Street,
Trocadero Skating Rink Newtown.
Metropolitan Skating Rink Ultimo.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre R0ya1....; “The Pointsman.”
Princess’ Comic Opera.
Opera House.,... Katie Putnam Company.
Alexandra “ Madam Midas. ”
St. George’s Hall. Harry Rickards.
Victoria Hall. .......... “Good old Mary Ann.”
Athenaeum. Maccabe.
Cyclorama, “Battle of Waterloo.”
The revival of Lyttoil’s Comedy of
“ Money,” after the lapse of many years') gives
the youiig men and maidens of Sydney an oppor-
tunity of studying how their Hinglish ancestors
Were Wont to carry on when the century was
young. For them there will be much comfort in
the knowledge that the depths of meanness into
which the high lights of society can descend in
pursuit Of greed are no deeper now than they
were 30 years ago. Mr. Alfred Evelyn, tile
young gentleman who starts in life as a private
secretary without salary, to be mercilessly snubbed
on account of his poverty, is refused by a girl
whom nobody could help loving, and gives way to
despair. _ Miss Clara Douglas knows too much of
the miseries that accompany the struggle to keep
up appearances upon nothing, and responds with
an energetic “No,” even while her heart is burst-
ing with a lOOlb. pressure to the square inch. Man-
like, he misjudges her, and misjudges her still worse
after a wealthy old relative with an Indian
liver has left him sole heir to great Wealth.
He then discovers for the first time how deeply he
has been beloved by all his acquaintances without
suspecting it, but is still too far goiie on the girl to
he rational. Georgina, the daughter of Sir John
Vasey, his first patron, is set on by that unnatural
parent to marry Alfred, by hook or by crook, now
that he is wealthy. Urged to the attack with an
“At him. girl!” suggestive of the “Sool him then,
boy,” addressed to the terrier who is required to
dislodge the vagrant midnight goat from the
•suburban verandah, Georgia’s effort is but weak,
her anatomical pump being already the property of
a masher of the period ; but Alfred, believing her
to be as nice as she looks and much better than she
really is, proposes and is accepted. Next he
gambles, pretends to be
ruined, and, discovering
his real friends, takes one
more chance for his best
girl, the blue velvet
couch in the front draw-
ing-room sustaining their
panting forms as they
make mutual confessions
of love.
There are are several
high moral lessons sca-
ttered through the piece
and some gorgeous furni-
ture; also boudoirs, salons,
drawing - rooms, and
“toney” surroundings
of an impressive character.
The sadness we always
feel when confronted with
things vicious and mean
was broken at intervals
by ripples of genuine fun
arising from the deter-
mination of a certain Lady
Franklin, a widow, to
make room for a Mr.
Graves, a widower, as
second husband, and his
doom was sealed from the
time she so determined
to replace the lost one.
“ Money ” is just another
bull’s-eye for Brough
and Boucicault; the bulgy condition of the old
tin cash-box full of it will shortly obliterate the
memory of that horrid fire. Mr. Percy Lyndal
as Alfred Evelyn gauges the chances to follow on
his first appearance in Australia with a prospect
of satisfaction. Mr. Eille Norwood, another first
appearance, has to wait until Lord Glossmore is
dead, and he gets a better show. The B. *nd B.
did all the rest.
, ,
ln Miss Myra Kembles farcwell-benenfc
oration the old traditions were properly sub-edited,
What she said was short and sweet, and every soul
in the house, from the Gov. in the V.R. box to the
uaniin in the gallery, shared alike in her parting
blessing—a blessing in which the Stage trenched
on the province of tlie Clergy.
# # #
, , .. , i -r, , .1 _
The crowd at the old Royal on the occa-
sion earned all tlie applause they received from a
packed house, and it is pretty hard to get the
Sydney public into a theatre on a fine Saturday
afternoon. Kate Denby’s troubles in the first act
of “Taken from Life,’’followed by the entrance
of the Queen’s Anointed and the customary prayer
m B flat that the saying process might be con-
tinned, made way for the third act ot Glancarty,
with Miss Kemble as the Lady Clan. Then Carrie
Swain in a Trovatoriau solo, and a serenade ending
in rapture and more flowers. “ Written in Sand
gave us" Kate Shirley as we shall never more see
her until Miss Kemble’s yearning for the sun lands
her once more in Sydney. The second act of
“Betsy” by the Criterion company was a good
whirl Jn
1 # * #
T 1 , , ~ T r ~ „
But we hope Miss Kemble will not have
herself announced on tlie London playbills as
“Kemble.” It will be better judgment if she uses
her legal frame, Myra White. Fob instance, it
would be imprudent for any actress, however
talented, to call herself “ Bernhardt. ” The rule in-
dicated will apply in London as regards the
ancient stage-frame of Kemble.
-*• * *-
The Bulletin notices that the alleged
finders (if the Marble Man of Cow Flat—which is
still being most profitably run in Sydney as a twd-
shilling show —don’t come forward with any
affidavits in support of their story. Are they
“game” to defy the statute, we wonder? But
they could easily be forced into a position in which
they woidd have to tell the truth, the whole truth
and nothing but the truth. Let the Coroner
accept Dr. M'Carthy’s vigorous contention that
the Marble Man once lived and breathed, aiid let
it be officially declared that it is in the circum-
stances necessary to hold an inquest on the scalped
remains; Let Sala and Co, be summoned
to give evidence, and letDrs. Souterand M'Carthy
each hold a handle of a cross-cut saw and cut our
marble friend in halves. Then shall we see what
the show is stuffed with. In our mind’s eye,
Horatio, do we hear the coroner (in the presence of
the “fifrders” and the proprietors, including
and the squatter who is said to have given four
figures for a fourth share in the concern) saying,
like another King Solomon, that the murder of
the infant is to proceed. If the finders can un-
flinchingly face such a spectacle then we shall be
ready to beliele—that they have got adamantine
Cheek !
# * #
The great .moral attaching to the history
of the Marble Man is this. No matter what may
be said by the police or their witnesses, Sala did
not make the Marble Man, in the time stated, and
the odds are ten million to one that neither he
nor anybody else in this country ever made the
Marble Man at all. Very possibly the Fooree
put forward their story in the best of faith, but
nevertheless they have made ah inch of fact cover
several square yards Of suspicion—suspicion
good enough to convince a pig-headed jury.
The Bulletin, Which has been hammering for
years at thL .stier unreliability of the methods
employed in the administration of the criminal
law, takes a Fiendish Delight in showing
how anything under Heaven can be proved or
disproved liy medical evidence, always provided
you don’t let one set of doctors become aware of
what the otto i fellows are going to swear to; and
it is now filled with a Great Joy at the prospect of
being able to conclusively show what a sham this
latest police case is. Here you have a Marble
Man, you hand his case over to the police, and
the latter at once put their finger on the fellow who
made him, produce circumstantial evidence of all
THE MARBLE MAN OF COW FLAT.—(See Page 8.)
sorts which fits tje guilt upon him like a porous-
plaster, give day md date for the. deed, and find
fragments of the corpus delicti concealed all over
the premises of the murderer. It is Simply Beauti-
ful.
-:>r * -*-
The S.M. Herald, in a sub-leader, bewails
the fact that no one in Australia recognised Mine.
Melba’s (Mrs. Armstrong) great genius whilst she
was among us. That the S.M. Herald, a pur-
blind paper, failed to make such recognition is no
doubt true, that other people were similarly deaf
to her latent talent is as undoubtedly untrue. On
the few occasions that Mrs. Armstrong sang in
Sydney, she received from the palms of the public
and the pens and lips of many critics, hearty
acknowledgement of her powers of pleasing. That
we have now in our midst a singer whose principal
means of reaching the ear of the public is by way
of Sunday concerts, and whose talents are usually
considered to be worthy of world-wide scope, the
Herald is possibly as yet unaware ; still, should
that lady also be afforded an opportunity of dis-
tinguishing herself, and also make good use of it,
no doubt Granny will again lift up her voice to be-
wail the fact that whilst she was with us “ we did
not declare the great singer that was to come. ”
Business Manager (at the speaking tube) :
“ Don’t forget the rinks.”
Editor ; “ We’re ram-jammed for space.”
Business Manager ; “ Well, sing ’em a stave.”
So here goes—
The charms of unadulterated scoundrelism
coupled with all the miseries that conscious in-
nocence can support under the waving folds of the
Union Jack, have continued to draw the nightly
offerings of the susceptible into Bland Holt’s little
money-box at Sydney Royal. It seems probable
that the “ dear old flag ” was never before unfurled
in the presence of more complicated wickednesses
than these. If it were not a foregone conclusion
that virtue would get last kick, no audience
with any sense of right could have been found to
stand the strain. After this week the “ Union
Jack ” which flaunts itself over the battlements of
Government House, will again claim the undivided
attention of the lieges.
* & * ;k-
-“ Two Lovely Black Eyes,” supplied by
the Willard-Sheridan Company, is a fair type of
the deliriously-illegitimate which satisfies the
stalls that they came into the world too soon. If
the Calliopes of the future are to carry such crews
as the ‘one shipped at the Gaiety, then farewell to
domestic peace. Lovely Susan is more than A
sufficient excuse for all , her fond William’s eccen-
tricities, but discipline is entirety out of the ques-
tion Oh the quarter-deck of aity ship on which
Grade Whiteford is allowed to sing and dance
whenever she pleases. The author seems to have lost
the run of whatever plot he may have had to start
with, but there are shadowy reminders of the first
and ortly commission of the Mount Ararat wreck, of
Lady Godiya, the overwhelming advantages of a
career of virtuh, and the absolutely indestructible
nature of woman’s love. John F. permeates the
whole as pirate, post-captain, piilieeinan, or corpse.
Miss Leamington sings contralto songs as Miss
Leamington knows how. Nellie Arline is intro-
duced simply as a village beauty, but Miss Nellie
can put the dulcimer and shawm to flight with
her banjo, and gets all the music out of it with
one hand while she waves it round her head with
the other. This show will put the Gaiety in the
same column of stock quotations with Mount
Morgan.
“ Lena the Madcap ” declined and fell with
fearful rapidity at Melbofrrhe Opera House, so oil
Saturday night Miss Katie Putnam raised front
the ashes Of hei’ previous disaster a five-act per-
formance entitled “Fancholl,” which flourished
for the first hour, bt more, but was subsequently
shrivelled up by the icy blast of contempt. Under
various names the story of “Fanchon,” at its best
A sickly poem, has been fugitively represented oil
the.stage ever since George Sand (who was really
a woman, and knew no better) cribbed it from
somebody else. Fanchon is an eccentric, untidy
maiden, living with her gruesome grandmother in
a one-roomed mansion made of mud upon the out-
skirts of a French village, both of them being des-
pised by the local aristocracy, consisting of two
dyspeptic old men, one of Whom has a comic-opera
kind of daughter, while the other possesses two
long, twin sons dressed like sentimental valentines
at a penny each. The less important of these
twins is a cream-laid idiot who occasionally pipes
forth “you’ll lose me !” in an exasperating falsetto,
and as the trouble wore along the Audience were only
kept in the’r seats by a vain hope that somebody
would lose him for good and all. The other object
is generally referred to as the Proud Laundry, and
he goes drivelling round the district with bunches
of ribbons stuck in his hat and boots and pinned
to the middle of his back. Sometimes he drivels
into a little running brook by accident, at which
times Fanchon fishes him out from among the
watercress by his variegated streamers, and takes
the tadpoles out of a dishevelled mass of tow pur-
porting to be his hair, but the proud Laundry for-
gets these services, and when Fanchon comes
tumbling through a window of his father’s house
in pursuit of a black rooster lie allows the family
to curse his benefactress all round their ancestral
kitchen. Later on, however. Laundry goes
wandering down the mountain side in search of
the other idiot (who has been getting lost as usual)
and when Fanchon points out the idiot’s latest
losing-place, Laundry has to discharge his debt of
gratitude by dancing with that weird maiden in
the presence of a whole village festival num-
bering some 20 souls, which makes the haughty
comic opera kind of daughter dreadfully jealous.
Here endeth the second act. For the next
three acts the Proud Laundry can’t get married to
Fanchon (who is cleaner than she was before) be-
cause the old man won’t give his blessing, which
seems to be regarded as a magic spell in the
Laundry family. But at last the obdurate father
chucks this silly old- blessing off his chest, and
then the play ceases. With the exceptional Mrs.
George Gordon, satisfactory in the small part of
the grandmother, everybody caricatures the
author’s idea. Miss Katie Putnam’s art begins in
an Amurrikan accent and finishes at sass; directly
she can’t sass any more her histrionic powers peter
out. The scene in which Fanchon talks to her
shadow cannot fail to knock ’em, and Miss Putnam
is no exception to the rule; but when attempting
ought in the serious emotional line this neat little
lady drops into unmitigated bathos. Mr. St.
Maur puts no steam into the Laundry, and is right
out of his natural element, anyhow. As for Mr.
Geo. C. Boniface, junior, the scarecrow that
doesn’t get lost enough, his performance makes one
mourn the day when Boniface, senior, took to
himself a wife. The old man with the blessing
counts for very little, and the others hop round a
May pole to the best of their abilities.
* * * iff
“ The Pointsman,” still running along at
the Royal, is now greatly assisted by Mr. J. H.
Clyndes, whose impersonation of heavy villainy
cheated expectation at the outset. A striking im-
provement is visible to the naked eye and audible
to the naked ear. Gradually, or all at once—it
doesn’t matter which —Clyndes has dropped the
vocal tricks and manners of Charles Warner, as
far as Nature will allow him to efface his resem-
blance to that exponent of tragical, comical, pas-
toral and historical drama, and the result is a
strong, well-balanced performance worthy of the
new company’s leading man. Also, by .the way,
Mr. Frank Emery is a superior type' of long-shore
loafer, and jain for those that got it kef ore must be
taken as read. If the play hung together As Well
as the company do it would last a lot longer than it
ivon’t;
* *
Comic Opera at the Princess’ shows moi'6
symptoms of nervous debility. Last night (Wed-
nesday) “ Pinafore ” was to.be revived, With Elto'ri
As Sir Joseph Potter, K. 0.8., for the first time,
out unless the season takes an unexpected turn for
the better it Will expire from general exhaustion
on the 28tli.
%* & %
Neither is “Madam Midas” tilling the
Alexandra as preceding works Of A less crimey
character have done. A possible reason why the
Melbourne public are wobbling aWay from the
broad road which leadeth to destruction may he
discovered in the management’s propensity for
advertising the show in very serious verse-. Some-
thing after this style
This improved parody might be prolonged into the
middle of next month, but The Bulletin is
merciful. It suffices to suggest that most of tlffi
Alexandra’s usual patrons are taken bad, and will
soon be dying by thousands unless the offending
bard is wiped into everlasting space.
Oh ! hard to beat
Is the Elite
(Skinner’s motto’s “ Bum spiro spero”)
And better than the ballets
Is the Crystal Palace,
And ditto the Trocadero,
And if this rhyme we burst
W e’ll bring in the Darliughurst—
Business Manager (sings softly through the tube) :
And now you have forgotten one—
The Harris-street Met-ro-pol-i-tan.
Madam Midas down a gully
Comes a-driving one fine day,
Yilliers and his one-legged cully
Plot to intercept her shay ;
As the ponies cease to budge on,
Yilliers—he’s a seedy toff—
Hits his wife with flabby bludgeon.
Then conducts those ponies “ off.”
Lo ! a leering base deceiver,
Gaston Vandeloupe, by Jove !
W,oos a maiden but to leave her
Looking for her vanished love;
Act by act that villain lies on,
Sneaking all the bits of fats,
Till he takes a dose of pizon—
Verdict: “Died of Rough-on-Rats.”
They shall sorrow reap who sow it*
(Moral plain for Philip Beck)
Hallelujah ! pitch the poet
Down a well and break his neck.
At Poverty Point.
Phil Beck has a marvellous memory. No one who has
ever been in Australia could come near him in swallowing
40 sides of a part, save Charley Hall, Rosalie Huvalli’s
husband.
Paul Wilhehnia, one of the artists engaged in the Cyclo-
ramas of Gettysburg and Waterloo, sailed for America oil
the Alameda. The prize-fighter McCarthy’s departure
received much more public attention.
Verily Madame Melba is
going it. We have before us
the prospectus of Augustus
Harris's Covcnt Garden opera
season, in which she is the
star. Patti is left out; her
mildest terras, ±'soo a night,
are killing. Besides she is
4(i years old ! Said to be the
same as Nelly Barren.
Solange Navaro is prosper-
ing in England as a member
of Helen Matthews’ Shake-
sperian company.
Lilian Gilmore’sprospective
husband (her mother has
just come out to see her
married) is J. W. Walker, a
Melbourne merchant, not an
attorney.
The “much-travelled” R.
S. Smythe writes from Rock-
hampton (Q.) “ Hear Bul-
letin, — Lovely weather up
here. Bracing mornings,
glorious sunsets. It you like
to run up and ‘goon ’ at
night as a Pharisee, or a
hypocrite, or a walking
gentleman, or a Solomon in
all his glory of wives and
concubines, I will pay your
expenses. Salutations !
R. S. F»
English papers state that a
syndicate giv es Santley, the
singer, £4OOO cash and all
expenses for his Australian
services. A few years ago
double this sum was offered
Sims Reeves and refused.
Alfred Sampler, who is making hatfulls of money in
Melbourne, is putting it into Sydney property.
Creswick was leading man on the Norfolk circuit,
managed by George Coppin’s father when George played
the fiddle in the orchestra.
Holy hymn of the trustees of Phillip Park, Sydney, when
they considered an application for the use of the park for
firework displays:—
“ Here we meet to suffer Pain.”
Holy hymn of trustees when they met some months later
to consider “ ways and means” in regard to repairs—
“ Here we meet to ‘ part’ again.”
However, Pain has now done the right thing in regard to
the Sydney charities. He gives them £3OO.
Mary Anderson doesn’t mind being interviewed by re-
porters of big papers. “But,” said she recently, “the
reporters of little papers that one has never heard of are
very annoying.”
What does Hr. Strong, the N.S.W. police-surgeon, think
of the Marble Man ? Wonder whether he is of opinion
that the image led a life strictly in accordance with all
the provisions of Old Sir Alfred’s criminal law consolida-
tion act ?
The gold scene atone in the comedy of “Money,” at
Sydney Criterion, dost Brough and Boucicault £260”
Some years ago a Sydney amateur club, composed chiefly
of young Hebrews, had the usual amateur audacity to
essay a performance of “Money.” He who played Alfred
Evelyn was a stumpy person with bow legs and guiltless
of aspirates. Next morning lie met an acquaintance and
asked him “ What did yon think of our performance?”
The other, who was a Philistine, replied that the comedy
was beyond the power of amateurs. “What!” said the
amateur Evelyn, “we made quite an ’it; the piece went
off without an itch.” “I told you you couldn’t play it,”
quietly remarked the other. But the jibe was lost on
Ilevelyn.”
A well-known Sydney manager, renowned for saying
nasty things, was being pestered by a haw-haw swell one
evening last week. The latter debated what character he
should assume at a skating carnival. Wearied manager,
scanning swell (who was wearing a pinee nez): “Stick
another glass in your mouth and go as a telescope.” Exit
swell, »
Creswick, the tragedian, has left his MSS. Autobio-
graphy, like J. C. Lambert and John Dunn. But neither
of those saw the light. Lambert’s MSS. is extant, in
many vols. Bunn left his to his son-in-law, Marcus
Clarke. After Toole’s lustrous biography, by Hatton, wo
are full over them. What trash! But, for a sweetener,
there is a cheap edition out of the Bancrofts’ more sensible
Reminiscences. Our old friend James Anderson, the
tragedian, has published his Autobiography in the New-
castle Chronicle (England). That is the best way of
putting it through. By-the-way, how capital were poor
old Fred-Belton’s Recollections hi the Sydney M ail some
years ago !
A Yankee has been selling the pictures of a Miss
Lothian, of London, as those of Mary Anderson, In the
spurious picture Miss Lothian “ undresses herselfJike a
society woman Miss Anderson doesn't.
A Japanese giantess, eight feet high, weighing SfKllbs.,
and rising 15 years, is being exhibited in China just. now.
Young “Hick” Aspinall, eldest son of the late B, (
Aspinall, barrister and wit, is forging his way ahead on
the Lqndou stage. He “struck” a real li\.e lord as' a
patron.


HKKt,ETON.
.U ajiiiui 1’tUI'RK.
flu
in.
U, in.
Height—
1 li-'pth of nliestj
5
3
i> 0
from bint dorsal 1
vertetrn lo end j"
nf ohest-tume J
l to. from iniri- t
Si
wav On cl'iest,
Vtotio I
Do. from June- 1
81
91-5
tloii of ihimriii!
fit ni\tli dorsal j
vertebral spine I
Width between 1
$
SJ
hipbone promin-
ences 1
Length from j
11
liij) pram in- 1
cures to knee j
joint. 1
Do. from knee i
joint to outer ]
ankle J
1
7
1 10J
1
S3
1 41
1’BTRIHBD MAX'S If KAO.
Ukadov .fori* no,i,os
(out hicJudliijj Hie Lair).
Mt'usm'elni'hl from lit'-
fore backwards
(KroiUo occipital) !)in.
Ditto from fclrlt* to side
(Bi-pavwLd) .... Vin.
t
Ditto uiin.
Ditto 7iiiu
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
“The Petrified Man of Cow Flat.”
Dk. M‘Garthy, Surgeon and Artist, declares
the Police Case Not Proven.—Phidias
Outrivalled. John Dillon’s Colossal
Skull.--Let us see what the Cow Flat
Man is Stuffed with.
Perhaps a dissertation on the subject of our
not yet vanquished friend the Marble Man
of Cow Flat—for as yet he has only been
convicted on police evidence—may not be in-
appropriate from one who has been fighting
his battles, and who, though prepared to publicly
recant if convinced of his error, still holds out
against great odds. The evidence procured by
the police authorities may be conclusive to some
logical minds, but society has before now been
shocked by a miscarriage of justice, by evidence much
stronger and certainly less discrepant. I quote as
follows from the Sydney D.T. of June 14th - ex-
tracts from what that journal designates “ particu-
larly interesting documents ” :
“ I hereby Certify that I
conveyed from my marble
Quarry A large piece of
marble about one ton to
Croaker's old publick house
nt Cow Flat for Mr. J. F.
Salta, which I afterwards
saw made into a man.—-
Josepii Bell,”
“He (.Briden) also in-
formed tbs constable that
the figure that was being
exhibited inside was carved
by the man-who was exhi-
biting it at his (Briden’s)
quarry at or near Caleyla.
E. P. Bos site r, Con-
stable.”
Rather suggestive, these conflicting statements of
rival quarry-owners, each naturally anxious to ad-
vertise his own quarry. If, as Sub-Inspector
Ford says : “ Bryden’s veracity cannot be de-
pended on, as he is a partner of Sala’s in the marble
quarry at Caleula,” and “ is anxious to have this
quarry brought before the public,”may he not ap-
ply a similar motive to the quarry-owner, who is
the rival of both these gentlemen ?
# * *
From this contradictory evidence it is quite as
reasonable to infer that the “Marble Man” was
made at Caleula as at Cow Flat. Perhaps, after
all, the specimen was imported. Not that, so far
as scientific investigation is concerned—and it is
only from that standpoint that the writer is inter-
ested in the affair—it matters one rap whether it
hails from Caleula, Cow Flat, or California. The
question is not where it came from, but “is it a
genuine petrifaction of human remains ?” If a
figure was seen carried out anywhere in the
Orange district was it that of a dead
body like the present; from what model was it
executed ; where was that model procured, and
where is it now? If Sala sculptured it from
memory, unaided by the model of a dead man in a
similar pose and affected similarly by pressure,
posture, ,&c., then indeed we have in our midst a
suprenm Artist, though an erring one—a man of
transcendent genius—and when he has atoned for
his fault, in Wisdom’s name let the Australian
Governments lay hold of such a prize, and we
shall soon have around ns, by the work of his
hands, a nucleus of art-monuments that will bid
fair to rival the best specimens of ancient or
modern sculpture. That this figure, with its natu-
ral and sculptural perfections, could have been
carved out by Mr. Sala or by anybody else in the
time specified in the police evidence is a wild
absurdity. On this crucial point I am borne out
by the opinions of more than one well-known
sculptor in whose company I have again examined
the specimen.
# # #
Notwithstanding police-reports, there is a mystery
about the whole affair which thinking men cannot
fathom; and I contend that the Scotch verdict
“Not proven” must apply to the case until a
section of the specimen be obtained. It is with
the hope of yet enforcing this crucial test that I
write the present letter. Refusing as Ido to
swallow a theory which I can in no way recon-
cile with the result of my careful and un-
prejudiced observations, I turn again to the
specimen, any opinions upon which must be given
chiefly from the indications shown by its outward
appearance. These opinions must necessarily be
based upon (1) the physico-chemical, (2) the geo-
logical, (3) the anatomical, and (4) the sculptural
or artistic aspects. I shall proceed on these
lines to deal with the question, merely
premising that the consideration of out-
ward form in the specimen is by no means a
matter specially and solely within the province of
a medical man, or even of an expert anatomist.
A very skilled anatomist who does not under-
stand the art of sculpture would, for instance,
lamentably fail not alone in modelling but in
pointing out the true modelling of, we will
suppose, the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle and
other structures of the neck in different posi-
tions of the head, though he can lecture with
accuracy on the origin, insertion and relations of
the. muscle. And so likewise with other muscles
and bodily structures contributing to outward
form. This is, no doubt, why a few medical men
have made blunders in their privately-expressed
opinions. (By the bye, why do they not all speak
out as Dr. Souter has done, and let me have the op-
portunity of meeting their arguments ? In not
doing so they leave ns, by inference, to imagine
that all the statements are at their side, the proofs
at mine). It is satisfactory, however, that
medical friends who have examined the specimen
with me in a thorough and exhaustive way, and
whose opinion I value, have been impressed with
the strikingly correct anatomical proportions and
natural death-like pose and shape of the figure.
* * *
With the admitted affinity for lime salts in the
human composition (our bones being chiefly com-
posed of phosphate and carbonate of lime, and our
blood carrying those salts in solution) is complete
impregnation with and transformation into cal-
careous matter possible in the dead body ? I
believe it will readily be conceded that it should
be so under favourable circumstances, the fore-
most condition being that the body is subjected to
the action of a sufficiently concentrated calcifying
medium before decomposition has set in. (Re-
mark that there is evidence of such disposal of the
body in the present instance, the raised arm-
stumps showing that the body was placed in posi-
tion and acted upon before rigor mortis had passed
away—in other words, before the advent of de-
composition.) In a cave in Mosquito Plains, near
Penola, S.A., as I have elsewhere mentioned, a
blackfellow’s body was found in 1850 in the
leathery condition of semi-petrifaction from the
mere dripping from the stones overhead—this
leathery, semi-elastic consistence being due to the
fact of the animal constituents still being in excess
of the earthy, as we see in rickety bones. A
member of Parliament has told me that he himself
saw in Manaro district a fully-petrified wallaby.
Completely petrified wood is not uncommonly
picked up in parts-of Australia. “If,” as I have
elsewhere asked, “certain of our streams and wells
and drippings from caves have such powerfully
petrifying properties on wood, wallabies and black
men, is the skin of a white man, notwithstanding-
his affinity for lime-salts, so pachydermatous as to
resist the physico-mechanical processes of endosmose
or exosmose as contributing to the necesssary lime
impregnation?”
Not being a geologist, I do not pretend to dis-
-OUBS Hie geological aspect of the question. Least
of all do I wish to pose as an antagonist of the
New South Wales Government geologist, nor
would I at all have introduced Mr. Wilkinson’s
name into the discussion, but that he wandered out-
side his sphere into the domain of the sculptor. I
shall simply say it appears to me that this portion
D f Hie question would resolve itself into the follow-
j n g considerations, viz. : —-
qq In what length of time would a human body he
f u u y petrified? Would it not depend chiefly upon two
conditions; viz. : ( a) the chemical affinity in the body for
salts of lime, and (h) the strength of the petrifying
hiedium ?
(-2.) Could a body be petrified a whitish colour while in
close contact with marble blocks of a different colour?
In other words, is the acquired colour dependent on the
petrifying medium or the substance upon which it acts, or
on both together ?
(3.) What are the specific reasons, from a geological
point of view, why this figure is or cannot possibly be a
take for the natural
formation of the hard raised venous calcareous incrusta-
fions seen at the back and sides of the figure, and also
those embedded in certain flaws thereon ? (Strange that
this incrustation, instead of being general over the body,
should take the form of special vein-like markings, and
«-,-•*«•» IffgS » h '„“T
•—(gq Are the thick webbings or “ juxta-posed substance ”
between the ankles, heels, knees, and thighs likely to
have been formed by close contact of these parts during
the process of petrification ? If not how' is to he ao-
counted for the dividing seams to be seen with the naked
eye in certain of these webbings, showing some want of
continuity, as if by the growing calcareous deposition the
parts gradually approached from side to side and at last
B “Z
dev elope these thick webbings, not into the stalagmite
state, but into the condition of true marble in which they
are admittedly found ? (Certain it is these webbings were
KA/i/A
*
ENTOMOLOGY AND RELIGION.
HIS REVERENCE: “NOW THEN, MICHAEL; WHAT IS A PROTESTANT?”
MICHAEL: “AN INSECT, SIR.”
HIS REVERENCE: “WHAT DYE MEAN, HOW DO YOU MAKE THAT OUT?”
MICHAEL: “PLEASE. SIR, THE OTHER DAY YOU TOLD US THAT THE
PROTESTANTS ARE ALL DIVIDED INSECTS.”
never fashioned by the hand of man. As to the absurd
theory of their having been copied from the cast of a
dead body, why, I should like to know where was there
ever seen a body in such a condition V)
These, however, are questions which can only be
satisfactorily answered by a geologist; and it
would be interesting if some authority on tie
subject would come forward and record his
opinion.
Next in order to claim our attention will be the
anatomical aspect. I shall now put the anatomical
objections seriatim and answer them.
Objection No. I. — “ There is an unequal number of ribs
on the two sides.”—(Dr. Souter).
Reply.—Some of the upperribs are not shown.
They, with the clavicles (collar-bones) are
simply obscured and lost to view, owing to
extra calcareous deposition at the I’oot of the
neck and upper part of the chest. To count
the ribs correctly in the specimen one should
find where they commence, below the notch
of the sternum (chest-bone). This land-mark is
lost for the reason stated. Its true position can be
found, however. It will be, in the present raised
position of the arm-stumps, intersected by a
straight line drawn from nearly the centre of one
arm-pit, opposite the head of the arm-bone, to a
similar point on the opposite side. Its position
thus will be found about four inches from the chin
of the specimen. By counting the ribs from here
downwards the correct number (twelve on each
side, including the floating ribs) will be found. I
have I’eckoned this number accurately, in the pres-
ence of medical friends.
Objection No. 2.— “ The very inaccurate formation of
the chest.”—(Dr. Souter.)
Reply.—l have, in presence of an esteemed
medical friend and in presence of an experienced
sculptor, taken most careful measurements, with
compass and tape, of the chest and other parts,
both of the specimen and of an articulated skeleton
placed beside it, and I have found the chest pro-
portions and the entire bodily proportions strik-
ingly accurate.
Objection No. 3.—“ The standing out of the bones in
a too well-developed thorax.”—(Dr. Souter.)
Reply.—The thorax, on the contrary, we found
proportionately developed (indeed, rather under-
developed) compared with the skeleton. I cannot
conceive how Dr. Souter fell into this error other-
wise than by supposing an apparently increased
chest-area owing to the partial subsidence of the
abdomen.
Showing the general bodily proportions I append
the following measurements : —•
Bearing in mind the difference of six inches between
the skeleton and marble figure, even allowing for shrink-
Do^ate eSe “meats will be seen strikingly proper-
Before leaving this part of the subject I shall
just mention a flw anatomical accuracies noted by
Las well as by other medical men-namely, tUe
correct outlines of the extensor tendons of the
toes, the correct shape, in section, of the severed
1 n ! , • „ ~.,.,.1
arm- tone, ic norma racin a , T .1
jugular and other veins some uioru to l m cl cfflm s
not so; the accurate shape and Posßion of the
joint surfaces and other bony prominences, in face
and figure; and lastly (a very curious circumstance)
the striking anatomical correctness of what ap-
pears suspiciously like a section of the severed
bone of one of the broken toes, its angles and planes
correctly numbered, each angle and plane pointing
exactly in the same direction as they do in a sec-
tion of a similar part on the skeleton. I have
taken a paper-rubbing of this part for better com-
parison, and shall be glad to show it to any
medical man who may desire to see it. Such
close-fitting, such perfect similarity and minute
exactness of detail in this small bony part made
its impression upon the medical man who courte-
ously accompanied and remained with me during
this inspection. Shall it be said this is a mere
freak of Nature or the result of the sculptor’s
chisel? If the latter, I ask again where did he
procure the model ?
The artistic or sculptural aspect carries with it,
to my mind, most weight in this discussion. I
shall now reply briefly to various statements made
and theories propounded on'this side of the ques-
tion.
Statement No. 1. —“ It forcibly reminds one of pictures
one has seen of American Indians, Californians,” etc. —
(Dr. Sorter.)
Reply.—The face with its aquiline nose is not of
the hatchet-faced, receding-forehead type of the
American Indian, nor is the shape of the head
indicative of such.
Statement No. 2. —“ The head is that of a giant.”
(Anonymous.)
Reply.—l am at present modelling a larger head
(life-size) —a’magnificent type of head it is, viz.,
that of 'my friend and countryman, John Dillon,
M.P. I append the measurements :
Statement No. S. —“ The specimen ia unquestionably
the handicraft of a not very able sculptor.”—(Dr. Soutkr).
It is “ rudely-carved into the form of a human body ” (Mr.
C. A. WiuuiiWft
Reply.—An artist attempting to carve thi?
figure, as it stands, should have not alone an in-
timate knowledge of anatomy, but also a most
accurate idea of outward form in the dead body •
and with this a degree of delicate chiselling-power
and general manipulative dexterity that, in mv
humble opinion, has never been, and shall never
be, arrived at in the glorious profession of the
sculptor. Of course a copy can be chiselled, using
the present figure as a model, but it will show
palpably as an imitation. There is something in
this figure that gives it the unmistakable stamp of
death. In viewing it one feels himself in the
presence of death. Look particularly at the back
of the figure, spoken of as being “ rudely chiselled ”
and conviction seizes you that you are unmistakably
viewing a rigid dead body flattened here and there
from posture; the right calf, buttock and shoulder
showing distinct evidence of pressure from the
body having partly lain on the right side. That
“crude chiselling” could effect this general
accuracy of form, and special minuteness of de-
tail, is palpably absurd. The treatment of the
muscular and other structures showing the post-
mortem condition, the treatment of the parts affected
by pressure and posture, the pose, form and special
details are such as to render it inconceivable that
anybody with an eye for form could speak of it as
“ a rudely-carved human body.” The reasons I
have given in refuting this idea are plain enough.
So thinks an authority on the subject, Mr. Oscar
Meyer, who candidly admits in his letter to the
Herald that “Dr. M ‘Carthy gives plenty of very-
good reasons which seem to render any other
theory impossible from a scientific standpoint.”
Statement No. 4.—“ The honeycomb appearance that
the artist (?) has given the trunk and limbs in working off
the superfluous stone in his progress towards a finish.”—
(Dr. Souter.)
Reply. —To describe the appearance as “ honey-
combed ”is not quite correct, the idea which
the word quoted conveys being that of small,
sharp, regular indents, such as would be pro-
duced by the corrosion consequent on the
submersion of certain qualities of marble in acid.
The surface has not this appearance, but it is
covered with rather large, smooth wave-like
pittings, which it would be impossible to form by
means of rough chiselling and acid without leaving
indelible chisel-marks. On this point Signor del
Yescovo (sculptor) has written very clearly and
unmistakably—(l) Corroborating my statements
with r-egard to the rough chiselling theory • (2)
Stating he could'easily detect chisel-marks in spite
of age or any treatment of the specimen ; (3)
Detailing special positions where these marks
would be particularly evident ; and (4) Positively
asserting that on account of the presence of a
“hair” or flaw on the right leg, that limb would
certainly have been broken by chiselli ng. This is an
opinion which cannot be despised—that of a man
of forty years’ practical experience in marble
working.
Statement No. s. — “ The eye that has not been gouged
out is quite rotund, with its lid closed.” (Dr. Souter.)
Reply. —The eye is not rotund, but flattened.
The lids are semi-open, not closed; and here is
also seen something very remarkable. The eye-
ball, flabby in death, and as if bagging out at the
lower part (perhaps for a while resisting the
petrifying process) is caught and fixed and frozen,
so to speak, in this position before its humours
could escape. Strange, also, this bagging is at the
most dependeht part, the outer angle of the orbit,
where the part would naturally tend to gravitate
in the right dorsal position of the body.
Statement (or theory) No. o. — “ Basing my opinion upon
my knowledge of marbles and sculpture, I say this ‘petri-
fied man’ is ‘ nothing but a cast,’ made from ‘ the finest
alabaster plaster,’ and, however strange my theory may
seem, 1 hope that eventually it will be found I am cor-
rect.” (Mr. Oscar. Meyer.)
Reply. —Prom mere inspection alone Mr.
Meyer’s theory can be disproved. A glance at the
marble graining, the strice and metallic deposits,
as well as the presence of a flaw where the cal-
careous formation was interrupted, is all-sufficient
to prove it a natural, not an artificial formation.
Besides which there is the true ring of marble on
striking. But I have got indisputable proof in the
fact of having procured and analysed a small piece
chopped off the specimen in my presence. Every-
body knows that plaster of Paris and alabaster
contain sulphate of lime. I found the chip that I
analysed composed of carbonate of lime, not sul-
phate. It is, therefore, true stone, not imitation.
Mr. Meyer’s theory thus vanishes.
Theory No. 7. —“ It may be a plaster cast transformed
into stone by burial.”—(Anonymous.)
Reply. —l should like to know by what strange
geological process can the sulphate of calcium in
the “cast” be transformed into true marble. We
have been treated to yet another absurdity in the
shape of a suggestion that the so-called “oast” is
merely coated over by nature with a delicate
veneering of marble. Let us only be enlightened
on the chemistry of these problems, and soon an
artificial process will spring into existence, which
will bring to an abrupt end the era of sculpture,
and will afford people of limited means the rare
opportunity of gracing their households, on a
ridiculously; cheap scale, with marble representa-
tions of their ancestors, and with exquisite marble
images from the antique.
I have now stated the case of “our marble
friend,” arguing, I hope, logically, step by step.
That I have, in this controversy, been actuated
solely by a love of science and a desire to unfold
the truth, those who know me will, I think,
believe. I claim there is ample reason why the
true and only conclusive test ought to be applied,
as it should have been in the beginning. I allude
to the making of a section —cutting the model in
Half. There are other proposed methods, such as
drilling into supposed cavities, the skull-cavity,
&c., testing the gravity of the figure in water, &o.;
but, to my mind, these tests would not be final.
If it be proved a fraud, then it is one of the most
astoundingly clever deceptions of the present cen-
tury —a deception practised by a man not alone
well-versed in the minutest anatomical details, but
also an artist of the first order, who should yet
take his place high amongst the greatest of all
time.
I believe this controversy has been approached
by most people with a degree of prejudice,
In the first instance the case was evidently
prejudged in the minds of certain Sydney
scientists, owing to the communication which
Dr. Souter admittedly sent them. There are
others, again, who, having seen or heard of a decep-
tion, colqrablyof this nature, practised in America,
have arrived at the conclusion that therefore this
must be a similar fraud. In these instances pre-
judice not alone mars judgment, but absolutely
prevents its exercise. I verily believe there are
others still who doubt the capacity of Nature for
doing this work. Take a leaf or flower. Look at
this delicate maiden-hair fern plucked from some
gully in the Australian bush. See, also, this rose
with its soft, delicate petals, and say whether is it
more difficult for Nature to fashion such
exquisite foliage and flowers than to merely im-
pregnate with natural lime salts an already-created
human body which contains similar salts.
A few words more and I have done. Dr. Souter
says, “ The man who still holds it may be a petti-
fiction, could never be convinced of his error.


Everybody should use Pciuell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Sweet Boronia, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia,
Mcyistu/uia.” Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. (,-*.»
ss. and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. P.o sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONG MORE, 13b Bourko-st., East,
Melbourne.
Dingman’s electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market.
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of “elbow-grease," and acts equally
well in the case cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de lanes, and the finest fabrics. _ It re-
moves paint and grease stains from clothing with
very little labour ; indeed, if it will perform half
what is claimed to be within range of its powers
its introduction into our households will be quite
a startling domestic revolution.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilo-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., HI
Russell street, MELBOURNE.
John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
LAND AGENTS,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &c.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed List Businesses for Sale issued Bally.
All Lists posted Fatt on application.
though he should read v urs on the subject.”
In icply to this 1 can only say that as long
as the facts before me point clearly to a
certain conclusion I will stick to my opinions.
When convinced of my error I shall willingly and
manfully abandon them. I stoutly maintain that
the theory of the marble man having been
fashioned artificially, either from a mould or with
a chisel, is rendered more than doubtiul by tHe
plain facts abo? e-stated ; and that, in justice,
a section of the specimen should be de-
manded. Perhaps those who have “ read volumes
on the -meject ” will now come forward and en-
lighten us with a few facts and arguments to the
contrary—-based on an examination of the figure
itself. 1 may here add that if honoured by an
interview, at the residence of our marble friend,
with those editors of Sydney new papers who at
once accepted as infallible the police evidence,
should I there and then fail t> . substantiate, in
presence of independent medical and artistic wit-
nesses, each and everyone of the statements above
made, and should I not, at the same time, be able
to convince them fully that there is at least sn h
grave and palpable doubt in the matter as to
necessitate the seel on which 1 demand, I shall
treat them to a box at the opera and a champagne
supper.
CHAS. W. M'CARTHY, M.D., F.R.C.S.I.
Personal Items.
Premier Gillies is a “whale” for Dutch
r heese,
■ here are 700 people in the world worth
more than a million.
Lady Musgrave’s father, Cyrus Field, is
north a couple of millions.
The mother of the tuneful Amies Beau-
mont died last week in her 76th year.
Organist Plaisted to he confined for life in
a Victorian Criminal Lunatic Asylum.
Of the 24 aldermen of ihe city of Sydney
ten have been in Parliament at various times.
The pauper Teck family have thrown
iu for £280,000 through the death of the Duchess
of Cambridge.
Professor Wallace, a Scotch Freemason,
on landing at Port Adelaide, paid ss. duty on his
Masonic apron.
The late J. B. Watson and the late Angus
Mackay took the chief part in founding the Sydney
Daily Telegraph.
Mr. Wakefield, editor of the Wellington
(N.Z.) Press is publishing a book in London,
“ New Zealand in 1889.”
Mr. Alfred Allen, M.L.A. for Paddington,
was the second Band of Hope boy enrolled in
N.S.W. He looks like it.
Miss Elphinstone Dick, who teaches gym-
nastics to the Melbourne ladies, claims to have
swum six miles in the open ocean.
The late J. B. Watson drew £50.000 from
the Oriental Bank on the eve of its collapse. He
received a private cable of warning.
David Blair claims to be doyen of Vic-
torian journalists, though “ Garryowen ” Finn
beats him by a year. Blair is only 69.
The filthy divorce reports of certain
Sydney papers are even calling forth reprobation
from Dan Mayne, o e the Bathurst Sentinel !
Mr. E. H. Hargraves, the Australian gold-
discoverer, is the son of a British officer and was
born on a battlefield in the Napoleonic war-time.
Princess Kaulani Victoria, heiress to the
Hawaiian throne, is II years old and goes to
England to learn to use a knife and fork and play
the piano.
Ihe late Duchess of Cambridge left per-
sonal property worth £160,000. The old lady was
almost as “near” in money matters as our Graci-
ous Queen.
Albert Read, the veteran Melbourne
attorney, hammers away. He must be 80. His
recipe is digging before breakfast in a nice flower-
garden at Kew.
Melbourne Herald says that Hall, tire
well-known London entertainer, is a fine old Tory,
and removes his hat when passing a royal resi-
dence. We’ll bet he gets nothing in it.
Somebody has fossicked out the infer*
matiori that Nosey Bob, the N.S.W. hangman—
who, by the way, says lie never “ talks shop ”
was once in the suite of the Duke of Edinburgh.
Some of the Times proprietors intend com-
mencing a Chancery suit against Mr, Walter for
the purpose of making him personally answerable
for all the expenses incurred in the Parnell ease.
British small-wits are making merry over
alleged Arctic discoveries by Lord Lonsdale. They
say that he found a river of brandy-and-soda, and
named its estuary “ Whiskey-cocktail Harbour.”
The she-editor has got as far afield as
Western Australia. Her name is Betsy Louisa
Clarke, and she sheds her gentle influence over
the badly-spaced columns of the Albany Ad-
vertiser.
Mr. Arthur Garner, of the triumvirate,
seems to be mixed up in a disputed land-syndicate
transaction. He figures, however, in the safe
position of a seller of some soil situated in that
giddy district, Lonsdale-street.
Pastor Jefferis has been lecturing on
Mammonism. The good pastor has £lOOO a year
salary, and will, we are glad to hear, throw in for
something handsome if all the suburban allot-
ments around Sydney are resumed.
Queen Victoria’s proper name is “Vic-
torina,” the name her mother bore, but it was
quietly altered to Victoria. Her undo, George
IV., wanted her called Sophia, but Kent refused,
so George stayed away from the baptism.
A well-known Sydney political lawyer once
had an active detective before him in the witness-
box, and inquired if the latter had not been
known by a “nickname.” “Yes, I have,” was
the reply, “ and so have you. You are known all
over the colony as ‘ Dirty Dick.’ ”
Jay Gould’s fortune turned into sovereigns
would weigh 570 tons, or, if into penny postage-
stamps, the stamps, placed end to end, would
reach four times from the earth to the moon and
back again. Gould's biggest exploit was a “cor-
ner ” in gold which he brought off in New York in
1869, and cleared £2,200,000 out of the deal.
Colonel Tulloch, the new chief man in
buckram for Victoria, got the billet at Governor
Loch’s suggestion. Tulloch was with the gunboats
at the capture of Pekin in 1860, at which time plain
Henry Loch was in imminent peril of being killed
by the Chows who were holding him and 14 others
in the Chinese capital. Two of Loch’s companions
had previously been decapitated.
Sir R. Molesworth, pei Coned judge, is
again well enough to rule about in his carriage.
Decent old sort. His written judgments were
terrors. Hideous hieroglyphics on small foolscap
sheets, tied with blue ribbon, looking like actors’
parts. When any of the barristers tried to oppress
the widow or orphan in the Equity Court you
should hear Judge Molesworth sniff I What a
terrible sniff old Moley had ! Once let a barrister
rouse that and be was “ dummoxed.”
A member of the Victorian Ministry was
so badly involved by the bursting of the late
lamented land boom that he bad to keep out of
Melbourne for six weeks to avoid the service of a
writ. However, the difficulty was squared by
Speaker Davies planking the necessary coin. A
certain big newspaper-proprietor had previously
offered to slacken his pur e-strings, but clogged
his generosity with so many conditions that the
Minister’s friends would not accept his aid.
One of the accused in the Cutler perjury
cases at Melbourne was an unfortunate Hindoo
whose wife, also a Hindoo, while her husband
was in gaol awaiting trial, was in great poverty
and subsisted on charity. These circumstances
came to the knowledge of Chief Justice Higin-
botham who was trying the case, and he sent the
poor woman monetary assistance out of his own
pocket, giving strict injunctions that the fact was
not to be disclosed. It is one of those cases where
disregard of a wish for s« ? v > < y can do no harm.
Honest George Higinbotham, the Victorian
Chief Justice, has never thought fit to carry out
A MISUNDERSTANDING.
FOREIGNER : "ANY ANTHRAX ON THIS RUN?”
IRISH DELEGATE: “ANT THE [?]OKS, IS IT? BEGORRA THERE’S NOTHIN’
ILSE.”
the wishes of his deceased brother, Thomas, i.m
railway engineer, who I r t him over £20,000. In
his will, Thomas .1 iiginbotham entreated his
brother and his family to assume the name of
Yerner, that having been, so the will ran, the
name of one of their immediate ancestors. The
judge declined to act upon the request, and
directed that the will was to be withheld from the
reporters. When the Chief Justice’s conversion to
Toryism becomes complete, we shall no doubt
know him as Sir George Yerner. Stranger things
have happened in this queer world.
The Sydney Echo says it does not know
the Mr. Rutledge of Queensland who lately spoke
disparagingly of members of the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment. Eoho ought to know him, as Mr. Rutledge
was once, like some of the Echo people, a clergy-
man. lie was so diligent that he supplemented
his Sunday sermons with week-night discourses,
and it looked for a while as if the evangelist spent
all his time grubbing in the Bible. All at once,
however, he issued out with a copy of the Queens-
land Statutes under his arm and passed a flying
examination in secular law. He has ever since
practised as a barrister and laboured as a politician
and is reputed to be making five times as much
money as when—to put it in B. 1). Morehead s
offensively flippant way—“he served God.”
Sylla Denis, head of the well-known Denis
Bros., jewellers, Bourke-street, Melbourne, is
dead, lie was Beaney’s diamond man. When
Beaney sold off the diamonds by auction Sylla
stood impassively by little Lyons, the auctioneer,
at the Athenaeum, and muttered “ £300; ” £5OO, ’
as the case might be, for the big lots, which he
secured. He knew pretty well every diamond.
Beaney and Beecher, of New York, were alike
only in one thing—-their love for precious
stones. Denis was a crack player at the Fitzroy
Bowling Club, and made an excellent thing out
of it by supplying all the magnificent silver-plate
lavishly handed about in prizes by Mark Moss,
the millionaire, and the like. Lachal, who cracked
up on land lately, used to be among the Denises.
Hon. John Douglas, of Thursday Island,
has forwarded a subscription to the proposed
Dailey Memorial Fund. It is not generally
known that Douglas was a member of the
Macquarie-street House in the early days of
Responsible Government. He and Dailey were
close friends then, and the friendship lasted all
through their varying careers. Douglas, who
was, and is, perhaps, one of the best speakers in
Queensland, looking at public speaking from the
point of view of eloquence, never hesitated in
stating that Mr. Dailey was a prince among
orators. Douglas is himself a graduate of Edin-
burgh University, and, notwithstanding a lifetime
of pioneering in the wilderness, is to-day as sus-
ceptible to academic allusions as when he wrote
Greek essays and Latin verses.
Chief Secretary Deakin’s father-in-law is
Hugh Junor Browne, a millionaire distiller, and
rabid Spiritualist. You may imagine the jokes
cut over his combination of spirits both ways.
Perhaps these made him clear out of business, and
concentrate his mind on the seances. When
Deakin first came into notoriety he went in hard
for Spiritualism, but, bless you, he was only
“Courting!” He has abandoned the spirits
now that he possesses a charming wife and nice
family, and is as good a materialist as Gillies,
Dow, or any of them. Dow sums up Spiritualism
agriculturally, as “ Muck.” Deakin once actually
got David Syme, of the Age, a trifle under
the influence, at all events made him go
and hear cranky Peebles. Deakin’s colleagu s
on the Age, such as Pearson and Dow,
looked askance at the young spiritualist who
wrote such dashing leaders. Professah Pear-
sou wanted to know; “ Aw, if you give up ore
fawm of supahstition, why do you requiah to adopt
anothaw ?” Editor Windsor, the Age editor
then, was very poetic, knew Horace and Shelley
by heart, but was an awful hard-shell Materialist,
for all that. Deakin conquered all. He still ex-
pands visibly. The trip to ’Frisco taught him
much ; that to London more. Whisper—He has
a sneaking notion about membership for Mel-
bourne in the House of Commons, and begins to
fancy Australia is played out - for him. His
father-in-law, writes “ The Holy Truth,” and
other big books, which nobody buys.
“ Unemployed tramps ” is the polite way
the Foreign-trade Press of Sydney has of alluding
to the men starving in and around Walgett.
It is a Court lie, sanctified by lengthy
usage, that every prince or princess born into the
world is a “vigorous infant.” When the late
Queen of Spain became the mother of a sickly
child which lived two hours, the Court Journal
gravely stated : “Her Majesty was delivered at
3 o’clock of a vigorous infant which died at 5.”
“ You can’t make a dollar stand on end—
thus,” said Colonel Knox, as he surveyed with
considerable satisfaction the accomplishment of
that feat. “Why not?” said his friend, with a
longing look at the dollar. “Because you haven’t
got it,” said the notary, hastily returning the coin
to his pocket, and with the air of a man who
meant it should stay there, too.— Murkan.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Loyalty” and bigotry are the twin
daughters of superstition.
Mr. Crick makes a speech every time the
N.S. W. Parliament meets.
It is estimated that there are 1,300,000
Irish in Australia. That estimated number is
exclusive of John Haynes.
Young Peacock, M.L.A. (Vic.), is a very
good Narive Oyster. He only has to beware of
a commodity known as Peacock’s jam.
Thus American papers report an Anti-
Prohibition Liquor vote: —-“Bergan. The town
went “ wet ” March sth by 28 majority.”
They say that the young bloods in the new
Victorian Assembly haven’t twopenn’orth o’ re-
spect for the grey ha rs of the old identities.
Mr. W. H. Traill will reply from an Aus-
tralian National standpoint to the Imperial Federa-
tion arguments of Mr. Parkin, the Tory bagman.
The great National Liberal Club, of which
Lord Hartingtou was a promoter, has hoisted the
standard of Home Rule and elected Parnell a life
member.
Foreign-trade England is getting her mili-
tary accoutrements made by contract in the French
convict prisons. As M Million says : “Freetrade
is the brotherhood of labour. ”
A Melbourne gentleman is appealing for
money to send a sick Syrian back to his native
land. It is about time that somebody started a
subscription for returning the Chinamen who make
us sick.
Bombs to imitate oranges have been intro-
duced into St. Petersburg. It is fortunate for
Dillon that they weren’t potato-bombs, else Parson
Frackleton and Co. might be- howling: “Fenian
coir piracy !”
Mr. Theodore Be van wants 254,000 acres
in New Guinea as a recognition of his services in
exploring a part of that island. Under the cir-
cumstances it is perhaps as well that Mr. Bevan
did not explore the whole island.
David Gaunson worries ahead with his
scheme for a new democratic morning daily paper
in Melbourne. Gaunson broached this thing the
day after his South Melbourne defeat, but people
only said he was “off his onion.” However, he
has worked up something tangible, and there is a
strong possibility he may round the corner.
The inhabitants of the Yambuk district
have decided to petition the Victorian Parliament
to give the first ehanfie of leasing certain reclaimed
swamp land to Australian natives. Yet the same
narrow-minded idiots would grovel in the afore-
said dirt before a new-chum Governor if he ever
came within the unenlightened purlieus of Yam-
buk. This is just the kind of “ Australian
national sentiment ” which the A.X.A. isdoim; its
little best to create —a mixture of selfishness and
slobber.
The “Colonisation” Committee, a Tory
body dominated by the Duke of Abercorn, has
subsidised one of the Irish landlords with a sum
equal to a year’s rent of his estate, in order that
he may be enabled to carry on ihe glorious “ war ”
against his wretched tenants. The idea mu tbo
to starve those tenants off to the colonies, by
which the Duke’s crowd will become a very prac-
tical colonisation committee indeed. Otherwise
they would merely remain a syndicate for keeping
up the price of Irish rents, which is evidently the
chief plank in their platform.
Eight members of the present N.S.W.
Ministry oppose the Payment of Members’Bill ;
the Ministry is therefore eight-tenths Tory. The
other two support it. The savageness with which
Premier Parkes turned on his colleague, l*n,-,t-
ma-ter-General O’Connor, when the latter intro-
duced the measure (which had been expressly
made an open question by the Government) the
other evening, in a Milesianly enthusiastic speech,
was due in no small degree to the fact that Mr.
O’Connor put forward the now undoubted fact that
Gladstone supports payment of members, whereas
Parkes (whose eternal cry is “ Me and Mr. Glad-
stone ”) a little while ago positively stated that the
great Englishman was altogether opposed to the
principle. If Mr. O’Connor is unable to effec-
tually resent a castigation which, in the absence
of effectual resentment, constitutes an abject
humiliation to him, he should quit office.
The Duke of St. Albans draws £lOOO a year
of British Treasury money as Hereditary Grand
Falconer. “ One day Charles 11. went to visit Ids
charming Nell GWynne and found her in a sour
mood. ‘ Come hither, you little bastard ! ’ she
said to her son, upon which the king remonstrated
with her on her plainness of speech. But Nell
knew what she was about. ‘ I have no other mu ue
to call him by,’ said she, sorrowfully. The king
took the hint, and created the boy Earl of Burfpvd,
and afterwards Duke of St. Albans. He also made
him Master of the Hawks, with allowances for
falconer’s, pigeons, and other meats to feed the
fowls with.” Falconers, hawks, and pigeons have
long since gone, but the Dukes of St. Albans con-
tinue to receive their £lOOO a year for looking after
birds which they haven’t got and which for all
practical purposes are as extinct as the moa. Let
us federate with Hingland. Parkin has arrived.


Ttmfwor VocKr (///-
Jujeititr /T-f>rr> 6cjJO*p y>-'<°p c
cuttf /ierpA'*.*/ tO>*rj u/>£,y r-ry S<u6/rcr
7a.?f>f>p 7*5
tycey yryf Of ff/J ijfK
p° f-
\ Oyp c<a.y, uy/urTuy cc |
~fc y&sy~ipq a/>ouf~ rfio /yar/>M
Wcl* Z)p <£~ '/j cva. 6 b ~ >
'oX /./o-sr/c Cop
, - . pbo?-a-g****j u/fTf
. /o ■ fCLCt P~ctyj jPat/’cAo ccr/r oaflp
\rS-ofrSSof 77j totsS<* / Urge rC tfecS '//- fdOsi
opty a cSup?sy Sy s*yr V*y
/>rr of fp /y J.fy- iSo't'ff'
cuo 66/c. <ti s . 1
' 7>o<,f rr / 6S,f>e' 7*ro/t>ssot-
d So 0,/ /as/-a.
'U-f'ry ctpC-icLO
(6fr"*7 c * of 0f»/'0 9
cn-oje bpfiot>ey Tfiti-s? 7*-o
yep.
/ysy / ?<x ■ SJ o/firr- Ay
OjrTfT fc CoVcCvm 6o>*
*£2s°*? c *yToyJof^
UJ cc / l/fitoCsC/- //" /$T CL CtfCC/OTsop , </~if ct^
/fr .
tnror-d ' Qo
G-tyds (Xycl po
hr of-a sptr>ycCld
c fr r y a -'i°f
£u-i or board y&-
H'OUsld frjo<~t e / "
Vf/xAL V'/SW'oA CoW'^LAT^
ufeTul min
«'•» (IITHiC
mWj i".
"dss/d 'Aetfas
Ocoo h7fyf> ‘''hejjrficp of *?*
/csfffy 3?ej) of Cor*- FIAT.
A Croakers
ft Croaker's Puttie.
/focLje cohere fye
"fiefnfctcttoy •• /oafc
pfccct
C Sryufi hoy oytye
cjcU~cfy cj/ty /y
toyi Cjtjyt/f'U-
ttt/V Ca/y fi
]) faluenjo-y iJ'fjT
j//j ?!>f OLfoy f^(L
Pfir C/a ? (fs? C/S'
Ccr? ct Perj/ce tS/? •*' ec7 /f~*
corf o. Ja o/C s&Cc S sTy
(/ Jrr/y^S*rf~'
- MARBLE
7~Hf f’ETRIP'IEfc
HAN '
Now-
on ,
WEW
A Jjct~a,njorf>/jic adrt>r~
7i)py'pt~
fo cC*ce/.fT<,^'
**7Tir*ry' A '*b
e*/br<jc tyr
fiersc/p />e>~lur-n
Ct trrr-y <x.rr/-<t ccpcC S
6>c firrsjiS~e /
&
Cow Flat’s Marble Man.


Wc-Pj^
"Any sympathetic mention of Home Buie in this Assembly is an insult to the House.”— PREMIER GILLIES.


frtcftcw# tcnffi-cv
Cuxco Sox ca aTuS>
Sc\ms cvac&d.
Sj#
CUao Kit
-CcM Cu&iiccurt
i’vcyt’i t
o'l*
V. 15. WHEEl/KK & CO.,
<'! A nitS'rK Stiikict,
S Y D 2ST IE3 Y .
CQLDIUL
deposit and nisroi vr
UR,
82 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Arcade).
Deposits received and Interest allowed as follows ;
3 Years
]2 Months
(» Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
... !) per cent.
... 8 per cent.
... 6 per cent.
All customary banking business transacted.
Communications to be addressed to
H. LIKELY, Manager.
PT
WC f
• m
HAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3STew Pianos
Also of the wonderful Victor Fiauoß at £AS,
365 George Street, SYDNEY,
from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Bluthner, Collard, and others.
:-i5. and Eatev Orsans. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
Rev. Dr. Be van declined to join the other
Melbourne parsons in their crusade against Zola.
This was the reason why Walker, the Victorian
Commissioner of Customs, now in Paris, refused
to exclude Zola. Walker is Bevan’s particular
friend. Dr. Bevan said, in other words, that he
had read Zola, while the other shouting parsons
hadn’t. At the same time, he did not express any
approval of Zola. What he said, or seemed to
say, was that Zola was mistakenly actuated by an
idea that he was working on social problems to
the end of reform. Bevan is a very independent
man in every aspect. His Radicalism in politics
made London too hot for him in Independent
Church circles. His opinions were greatly
strengthened by his pastorate in New York. He
loves America, holding that it points the way for
England. Bevan’s only drawback is Ids £l5OO a
year. One can see how this has gagged him some-
what. For instance, he wanted to “go in lemons ”
for Home Rule, but the deacons or congregation
pulled the wires and wouldn’t let him.
The Melbourne Pres-
byterian star preachers
are Marshall, of Collins-
street, and Ewing, cf
Toorak. Both “dry
hash.'’ Ewing has an
atrociously affected pro
mmciation, always the E
for the A. Miss Cowper,
of Williamson, Garner,
and Musgrove’s new
company, is in danger of
falling into the same
abominable English fault.
Baptist Chapman is the
best Melbourne preacher,
now that Rentoul is laid
up with a snug bug-in-a-
rug Ormond College
professorship. Sir James
M‘Culloch brought him
out and was sorry.
* * *
Tattooing is becom-
ing fashionable in Britain
just as it is falling out
of fashion in the Cannibal
Islands. The high-priest
of the art in England is
an ex-private of En-
gineers, and when inter-
viewed recently by the
Ball Mall, he said his
customers were chiefly
officers of the army. Ho
had tattooed many noble-
men and also several
ladies. The latter went
in chiefly for ornamenta-
tion on the wrist or calf,
or had a garter worked
just below the knee.
One lady came to him to
have a beauty-spot
marked on her face, but
he was expecting to see
her back some day with
a request that he should
eradicate it.
# * *
The Bulletin learns
by wire from Port Darwin
that a European recently
died of leprosy in the local
hospital, and that the
dreadful character o f
the disease had been
studiously kept a secret.
The hospital doctors had
months ago advised the
Adelaide authorities to permit the patient to be
isolated, but this very reasonable request, it is
alleged, was ignored.
Extract from a speech made by a N.S.W.
clergyman on a recent public occasion :
“ As a loyal man 1 am glad to be here this day to drink
with you the health of the Queen. 1 should like to have
seen the name of this new church connected in some way
with those of Albert the Noble and Victoria the Good.
My friend here loves the Queen, and T believe if be we: e
Pope of Rome he would canonise Her Majesty to-morrow 1
(Laughter and applause.) 1 may tell you that I once had
the pleasure of meeting the Prince of Wales. I rememlx r
that shortly after the marriage of 11.K.11. he and the
Princess went to Scotland, and I ran after the carriage, as
1 had never seen a real live prince before. I can assure
you I was simply overjoyed when H.K.H. stopped the
carriage and patted me on the head.”
After this it is surely time that we had the privi-
lege of keeping a lot of Royal paupers of our own.
But let us take heart. Parkyil may be the avant
courier.
An Anglican parson recently said that
“ That old hag Mrs. Grundy, the embodiment of
prudery, was the devil’s best handmaid.”
* # *
Scene 1 : Deck of steamer trading between
Melbourne and Sydney. Stout Irishman and his
wife just seating themselves. Scene 2 : Irishman
gets suddenly sick and hastily retires to the side.
Vessel rolls heavily. Wife frantically grasps at
something to keep her chair from sliding down,
and exclaims: “Come up here, Daniel! and let
the ship get straight!”
Dark corner on Deck of Same Vessel. Time,
10.30 p.m. Fast man, whose wife lives in Sydney,
to lively widow whom he has got acquainted with
on board : “Not married, I hope?” (This lovingly.)
She: “No, not now. My husband is dead—and
you?” He (quickly, while he lags her)-. “So is
mine.”—She believes him.
# # *
Principal Rainy, the new Presbyterian
star in Melbourne, following Dr. Cameron Lees
and Dr. Marshall Lang, is an in i posing Pow Wow,
a plump old fellow, most comfortable and cushiony,
with white hair and an aquiline cockatoo face —Sir
Redmond Barry’s mouth all over. Rainy has
lived in, sunshine and clover all his life. Orthodox
as Knox, giving hard kno ks to Robertson Smith,
Caird, and all the Liberals. He impudently mis-
represents the whole state of affairs in Scotland.
The Liberals are, of course, being scrunched out,
sat upon as completely as a corpse by 13 j urors,
all well-developed men, a la Rainy, with plenty to
sit upon, and soft cushioned chairs and downy
beds. The foxes have holes, and the birds of the
air have nests, and probably Rainy never slept out
of a feather bed in his life, or hardly ever. He
gave a thoroughly commonplace address at Ormond
College, with any number of dons koo-tooing
round him. Lady students turned up in gowns
and French hats, from various colleges, to tie
CALLED FROM THE BAR.
number of more than a dozen. They did not look
well, living on the pigeon’s milk of rhetoric. Too
thin ! Instead of being pressed to manly bosoms,
they are hydraulic presses to cram in Greek, Latin,
Algebra, Euclid, Trigonometry, and all that. Quo
of them had her hair down— the only oasis in a
dismal waste of sad-eyed melancholy. They
came in limp, after a severe morning tussle with
the sacred energies of Learning. Oh, blow it!
Let’s get back to the saucepans, and “ Irish stew,
wan,” instead of this “ Stew.”
* * *
Really there was a prettily pathetic thing
in Melbourne last week. It was the funeral of a
young lady; the hearse had white plumes, and a
silver-studded green casket was seen through the
plate-glass. But the unique feature was the poor
girl’s favourite grey horse, with her saddle on, led
by her brother next to the hearse. Somehow this
was as striking in its way as the Duke of Wel-
lington’s charger, Copenhagen, led after his gor-
geous funeral car. It seemed to be an indication
of the loving nature of the departed one, for the
horse was indeed nothing particular—a plain cobby
pony. Let us hope he will not descend to a save-
loy-cart.
J # # #
The late Dr. Bromby’s affairs are being
settled up in Melbourne. He left plenty of
money, divided between the young widow and his
grown-up children. The good old Doctor cut up
for about £lO,OOO, like his old friend Dr. Cairns,
whose venerable widow is often seen about. Every-
one agrees now that M rs. Bromby was a great
comfort to the doctor for the last five years of his
life. Her father is Mr. Banks, of the well-known
boot-shop jiearlhe Public Library. Bishop Moor-
house thought he had joked and frightened Dr.
Bromby out of the marriage, but he did not know
his man. Strange to say, the fact of the engage-
ment oozed out in the newspapers some weeks
before the marriage, and it was thought this had
“ put the kybosh ” on the business. However, the
Doctor went out and got the job done quietly by
his old friend, Rev. Wilkinson, of Queenscliffe.
Moorhouse was rampant. There was a queer
scene just about this time in the Church Assembly,
when Bromby spoke in support of a reduction of
marriage fees. Mrs. Bromby was one of the sur-
pliced lady choristers, and this gave more edge to
them.
* * *
Holy Adelaide was recently visited by a
deluge following on three days’ heavy rain. The
Torrens swelled beyond recognition, and the
Adelaide Rowing Club lost their boats, vTiich,
after the waters subsided were recovered in
minute particles. 1 he fashionable inhabitants
initiated a cake-fair and concert of two days’
duration for the purpose of raising £(>00 to replace
the boats and shed for the incipient Beaches and
Searles. The affair was most successful. “ Her
Excellency” Ladv Kintore graciously gave her
patronage and beaming presence, and with her
own fair hands made luscious pasties for the
worthy object. As with the historic Carington
fifty-shilling guava jelly, so with the Kintore buns
and say nothingof the seed-cake, which all
met with a ready sale, in many cases being loyally
bought to frame and hang on the wall. As show-
ing the great stimulus given to trade silice the
arrival of Lord Kintore, it may be stated that
a Rundle-street ironmonger is now selling a
homely article known as the Kintore t rying-
pan, price one shilling, but it is not yet known
whether the Governor has any share in the
prohti of the enterprise.
* * *
In Sourabaya roadstead, Straits Settle-
ments, a Chinese passenger died upon a junk. A
big coffin was ordered from ashore, and next day
the funeral passed along the principal streets, amid
the beating of gongs and the burning of joss-
p ipers. The funeral over, the junk put out to sea.
It subsequently turned out that the Chows had
thrown the corpse overboard and landed 2cwt. of
d
cpium in the coffin. However, they can beat this
in Sydney. A few weeks ago the touching service
of the Presbyterian Church was read over a coffin
containing a fine assortment of brickbats while the
man whose name was on the coffin-plate was doing
the Pacific Slope with £l5OO, the proceeds of a
forgery. A good deal more may yet be heard of
this matter.
# # *
A Melboure editor the other day showed
a Bulletin man the MSS of a close translation of
Zola’s “ Therese Kaquin,” sent in to that paper by
a young Melbourne lady of most respectable
family. This book is positively Zola’s most dis-
gusting effort. If Bathurst is ever hard-up for
something of the kind, it is believed an advertise-
ment would fetch along this MSS, directed in the
fashionable Toorak lady's handwriting.
# * *
Some time ago a most illustrious personage
paid a visit to a country district up Mudgee way,
and the leading inhabitant met him with a four-
in-hand and drove him out to his residence. On
the road it occurred to the owner of the turn-out
that the distinguished guest (who has a great re-
putation as a “ whip ” m England) might like to
drive, so he offered him the ribbons. The road
was straight and wide, the team were well trained,
and the IML cheerfully accepted the offer. Things
went on all right until they got on to a bush road,
where the trees came in close to the track and the
horses had to be sawed about and yanked sharply
round corners, and taken “ judgmatieally ” into
steep gullies. Alas for the English reputation and
the honour of the great Eour-in-Hand Club ! The
I).G. began to lose control of the team, and soon
resorted to that trick of all novices at four-in-hand
driving—viz., driving the leaders only and letting
the wheelers look after themselves. Result —in
turning a sharp corner he pulled the leaders round
all right, but the wheelers went straight on, and
crashed into the head of a fallen stringybark
This pulled the concern up all standing; the
leaders slewed round and stared at their coachman
and then sat down on their tails to think the
matter over, while the wheelers stood on their
hind legs and pawed the air. Someone got down
and put things straight, and the owner resumed
the reins, and, of course, said it was the “ fault of
the horses,” “ untrained bush team,” &c., &c. It
seemed to make little impression on the D.G. He
yawned softly and said, “ I suppose you’ll have
some buokjumpah-riding to show me when we
arrive. They always show me buckjumpahs in the
country districts.”
* -* #
“ These horrid railway accidents,”'writes
At n , ~ ’ ,
f.MelWne correspondent are the oondemna-
tlM" ot Commissioner Speight though he be ab-
nt. U Rff h \ m to Prevent loss of life. I nder
\ n \ r T m % xt }™ been ™ e th j lll ever - , . I f} u-t
be has had his eye too much on working ur. I.is
T T T ' J '-""f have , '"' i
-d<me on the cheap. (d,cap inen is the grand ex-
J >laua V° ,K Cheap men, dings and parings so as
to M|f ke for one big man who can show a
t]l * I ,ro ” ts • to
sat! ? : wei t \ iody goes on the X letonan lad
' v < i y* 111 a ' 1 ” ,11)le '
* *
A Sydney evening paper states that Hie
tubular bells recently erected in a local church are
not regarded (probably on account of their feeble-
ness) with much favour by the congregation. If
some one would invent a church-bell that could
only be heard by the worshippers who litre a man
to clang it, he would earn the undying gratitude
of at least 300,000 citizens of Sydney who like to
sleep on the alleged day of rest. A late English
paper announces that a man who played a con-
certina in the street was summoned and fined at
the instance of certain people whom he annoyed,
If concertina music is a nuisance, what shall we say
about the average church-bell■?
Husband : “ Well,
I'm sick of it. Nothing
but the continuous growl
about the Lodge ; sup]los-
ing 1 mu a little drunk
occasionally—” Wife :
‘‘lt is not that, dear.”
Husband : “ Well, sup-
posing I am sometimes a
little late —” Wife : “It
is not that, dear, but
twice lately I have come
down in my nightgown to
let you in and found it
was the milkman ; it is so
embarrassing Now, if
you could arrange to
come home just after the
eight o'clock post, it
would be so much more
convenient.
# # *
If you want to make
a Potts Pointer savage
just send Iris letters ad-
dressed to “ Macleay-
street, Woolloomooloo.”
* # #
The N.S.W. Church
of England Temperance
Society, foaming at the
mouth with the froth
caused by an alliance be-
tween religion and ginger-
ale, is on the war-path
against barmaids, and has
sworn never to sheath the
pocket Bible or to cease
taking up collections for
the “ paw heathen ” until
these wicked women
are wholly exterminated.
Now, we want to see the
barmaids enter into a
crusade against the intem-
perate and inconsiderate
persons who would close
one of thefew avenues
available for women's
labour without in any way
attempting to open up
another and more suit able
one. One thing is cer-
tain : the average pretty
barmaid has as much in-
fluence in this community
than the average parson,
and she has it on her
merits, so far as intelli-
gence and goodwill to all
men who hold threepence are concerned.
Mon despise the clergy because the clergy
are mean in spirit from a man’s point of
view. The ordinary clergyman’s habits of
life are women’s habits, not men’s. For
instance: A good many months ago there
was a clerical conference or something of the
kind in Sydney, and Quong Tart, partly out of
good-nature and partly, perhaps, because ids keen
Chinese faculty of observation told him that where-
ever the clergy go there will the women congre-
gate (and vice versa), sent them a lot of tickets,
each ticket entitling the holy bearer to drink tea
and eat scones at any one of Quong’s numerous
tea-shops. A Sydney man happened to be in a
tea-shop the other day, when in solemnly trooped
half-a-dozen saints, some of whom at once ordered
tea. “ Haw !” said one reverend gentleman, who
looked as if not long from England, “ I presume
that these—er —tickets entitle one to —haw—lunch
at this establishment?” “No, sir,” said the
waitress, “ this is not one of Mr. Quong Tart’s
shops.” And then the six solemnly trooped out
again, leaving on the table several cups of tea, &c.,
which had been brought to their order ere the


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT Si DISCOUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, KING STREET,
Agencies in Loudon and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted,
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits:—
3 Years
12 Months
(> Months
3 Mouths
OA pur uoiifc.
H.\ I It*!' trill,
7 r . i« i in it.
fi. f . pur emit.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, lias been paid in addition to the above rates,
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON.
General Manager.
The English People's William
Is the grand old W.G.,
But Australia’s People’s William
Is the Famous Billy Tea.
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglia & C
4 and 0 Dean's Place,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
QOLOMAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
KFW TABLE-TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS prori*. /«■ THE WHOLE
THE PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED at cm ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED death the or cm,l of FULI
PARTICIPATION IN TONTINE SURPLUS. tR' Brandies in all Hie Cuuo.Mtd auii in the Um'lEn Kikudou.
cautious imported friar found out that the cheques
were about to be presented at the wrong bank.
Now, is there any man in the world but an apostle
‘of this order who would have acted similarly?
* * *
Dean Macartney, the venerable Melbourne
nonagenarian, is another instance of the tendency
of public men to liberalise in old age, like Glad-
stone, Thiers, Beecher, &c., &o. At 70 the Dean
was a most bigoted Conservative. Now he is a
Liberal - comparatively. They wanted him to go
in with an agitation against the extension of
suburban Sunday trains, but no, says he, sauce for
the goose is sauce for the gander, Dandenong has
as much right to a train as Windsor. Again, he
THE REWARD OF SYMPATHY.
TROOPER: “WELL, MRS. M'GRATH, I AM SORRY TO HEAR OF YOUR
DAUGHTER THROWING HERSELF AWAY BY MARRYING A
CHINAMAN.”
MRS. M‘GRATH: “ GERROUT WITH YER, WHAT ABOUT YERSELE? YER
IRISH AN’ YOU’RE A PLEECEMAN-THAT’S WORSE.”
was one of the leaders in the bold proposal last
year in the land boom to sell the cathedral site,
corner of Swanston and Flinders streets, for
£BOO,OOO, and put np a cathedral elsewhere which
would “ knock spots ” off Norwich, Salisbury, or
Canterbury, almost vying with St. Paul’s, London.
Bishop Goe resisted this, and, being a riph man,
dabbed down £5OO to drive on the cathedral where
it is. Sir W. .1. Clarke trumped this with an
extra £lOOO. Others followed suit, and £lO,OOO
was raised. With this the cathedral is going
ahead fizzing; the removal party is clean out of the
field. Dean Macartney’s conservatism is trans-
ferred to his son, Rev. H. B. Macartney, whose
stagnation is poreus-headed. He and Langley
are the lowest of the Low Churchmen .in Alel-
b urne. They rejoice at the Goe regime follow-
ing that of Moorhouse. ‘ They had doubts whether
Moorhouse was Saved. Langley, who has Sydney
connections, has worked up a great congregation
at St. Matthew’s, Prahran, by his energy. Never-
theless, his heart is still in Sydney. Some of
Dean Macartney’s family squat in Queensland.
* # *
There was an elopement in Sydney last
week. The victim is the wife of a cash betting-
man.
# # #
Lord Carington’s memory is kept green in
England by the small horsey papers, one of which has
just told people how heroically the bold baron once
travelled, from Moss Vale to Sydney, m a railway
brake-van. But those small horsey papers, alas!
don’t know what a change N.S.W. has wrought in
their old pal. The pride of life hath deserted him,
and he now shines like a star at meetings of the
Young Women’s Christian Association.
* * *
The proceedings in the N.S.W. Divorce
Court during the last week or two have been of
deep interest to those who revel in downright filth.
To read the proceedings as reported in certain
daily papers one might almost think he was over-
hearing consulting-room conversations between a
particularly low quack doctor and his patients.
Any married man who wants his daughters taught
a tiling or two should lose no time whatever in
placing the reports in question before them. The
oases were brutally commonplace, and were only
foisted into prominence by press ‘ ‘ enterprise. ” One
man got £l5OO damages from each of two gentle-
men who had constituted themselves full partners
in the object of his affections; and another man,
who had written a letter from which the subjoined
is clipped, was asked to pay £2OOO by a fat lady
who said he had promised to marry her
“My dear Maria,— l have been very restless, and I feel
lost without you. . . . My dear Maria, you are never
out of my mind ten minutes only when I sleep, and then
you are the last in my thoughts and the first in the morn-
ing. I love you more than ever. I would like to kiss you
now.—Your ever loving William.”
Here followed a number of crosses representing kisses.
.atf
“Ever loving William,” who has changed his
mind, and puts forward a large and choice collec-
tion of alleged reasons for so doing, is a retired
Rockhampton publican, which his name is Cal-
laghan. Just to think that a respectable prosaic-
looking tradesman by the name of Callaghan, who
pulled the corks of bottles and agitated the handle
of the beer-engine, should have so much romance
in him ! But then, you see, each of us has his
little love-story, and some of us have quite a
string of them.
Talking of romance, here is a startler. Often,
as we have gazed upon the expressive countenance
of the Finishing Schoolmaster of the Beautiful
Harbour, has it occurred to us that deep down in
his bosom there was buried the remembrance of
some idyllic episode too sacred for contemplation
by a vulgar world. Here, at last, is Mr. Howard’s
romance, as related to an interviewer :
“No ; one hanging is very much like another. I see as
little as I can of it. Once I was very much cut up when
on entering the condemned cell to pinion a man I found
him to be a friend whom I had known years before. I
was very much troubled, and would have given anything
to have got out of the duty. But it had to be done, and
there was no escape for me.”
What Mr. Howard means, of course, was that
there was no escape for his dear friend —when once
Nosey’s snug position in the N.S.W. Civil ser-
vice came into question. That’s the sort of a chum
to have :—“ Dear boy, we haven’t met for years.
Come and ’ave a drop.” Ugh !
# # *
Miss Christina Gordon, of Newknds Es-
tate, Apsley (Yic.), has died, leaving £looofor the
maintenance of a private' cemetery on her late
freehold, where she has been duly interred ; also,
£BOO for the erection of a monument to her..de-
parted self. —
There will shortly be a son and heir to a
certain hereditary title. And if it isn t a son it
will be another daughter.
* * *
An Adelaide paper calls upon Lady Kin-
tore to prove herself a worthy wife of a Governor
of a democratic people, by giving an exhibition
with the vice-regal household tub, on washing-day.
* * ■ *
The Reverend Cockleton, a gentleman
badly bitten by the yellow dog, sometime ago
pharisacially declared that the American floods
were a direct infliction of the Almighty in conse-
quence of the wickedness of that land. Since
then a number of Sunday-school children have
been killed and badly wounded in Ireland. Now
we want to know if the hand of Providence is
also visible here ? Were these innocent babes
killed on account of the wickedness of their
parents, or because of hereditary taint, or was it
because they did not belong to the same religious
persuasion as the Rev. Cockleton ?
# * *
The sweet singers of cantatas and oratorios
at Horsham {Yic.) aver that Baritone Santley is
No Gentleman. Because: A leading member of the
Horsham Liedertafel learned that Santley was
going through'to Adelaide from Melbourne by the
night express. So he gathered together a cohort
of songsters and waded through the mud to the
railway-station at 11.30 p.m. Scheme, serenade.
The train arrived, and the serenaders piped up,
but Santley “laid low and said miffin’.” Then
Mr. Prime-mover and an aide-de-camp proceeded
to investigate the inside of the train, and found
Santley in a sleeping berth. He spoke to them in
baritone, and told them to G.T.L. out of that;
that he didn’t belong to, and didn’t sympathise
with, the Salvation Army, and that anyhow he
wasn’t going to leave the blankets for anybody;
nor did he. So the members of the horsham
liedertafel—[no capitals printer]—sneaked home at
midnight under the firm belief that Santley is No
Gentleman.
* * *
That expensive young man, the clear Duke
of Portland, has completed another stage in an
unintellectual career by getting married, and we
hope they are very, very happy.
* " * *
After the funeral of millionaire Watson,
of Sandhurst, half-a-dozen different solicitors pro-
duced what they imagined to be his last will and
testament, a show of dates resulting in favour of
the will confided to a Melbourne firm. A study
of these parchments revealed that Air. Watson
may not have died so very, very rich, after all,
but his relatives are rejoiced to find that he didn’t
leave any of his sugar to religious purposes. As
one of the legatees remarked, “A man’s own
family is the public institution most in need of
support. ”
* * *
Lady Clarke has subscribed £5OOO towards
the “hostel” for sweet girl graduates at Mel-
bourne University. Once upon a time Lady C.
had to take a humbler personal interest in matters
of education, so to speak, and the gift coming
from her (or her husband, which Is the same thing)
is generous, graceful, and altogether good form,
After all, there’s nothing like our old Victorian
nobility, especially while it has a good old lot of
money. # * *
Another Melbourne bank official gone
bung. He attended Moonee Valley races two
days before lie fled, but the wrong horses must
have won.
# * *
Mr. Nick La Feuillade, a true artist who
has fiddled to the Australian public for flve-and-
twenty years, will shortly be tendered a compli-
mentary' benefit at Melbourne Town Hall. Ho
has put in his quarter of a century without getting
or seeking a benefit for himself, while always taenia
willing to assist his professional brethren, and it is
generally considered that dear old Nick s turn has
arrived. The Gov. has consented to lend ms goi-
geous presence to such a deserving occasion.
* * *
The son of our old friend Henri Rocliefoi 1
has blown out his brains in Algiers because a gii 1
named Nellie refused to come over from l aris to
join him; The idiot didn’t understand that it
Nellie had made the sea journey she would have
been appropriated by the gallant captain cn route.
We can call to mind thirteen different Nellies who
all went down to the sea, in ships, without their
mammas, and in each instance they were annexed
by the captain or his gallant first officer. It’s the
result of too much ozone and gilt buttons.
#
The Queen, the Prince of Wales, the lead-
ing members of the nobility (three cheers for the
nobility !) and the municipal authorities in the
chief cities of England are, it is cabled, making
arrangements to entertain that nasty old animal,
the Shah of Persia. This probably means that
the sheep for slaughter in his private apartments,
one head of mutton per day, are in readiness, and
that Tummy, the leading members, &c., have in-
vited a sufficient number of obese females to do
homage to the precious potentate who issues
orders to execute a batch of his unhappy subjects
whenever he feels bilious. The Shah’s earthly joy
consists in watching fat women dance, and if very
urgent State reasons make the awful proceeding
advisable we may even hear of an English, princess
or two beguiling this jewelled heathen witti a
Highland fling, after which he w ill sign some
senseless treaty or other. He signs treaties in
every European capital.
* * *
Melbourne paint-manufacturers are agi-
tating for an increased duty on the article. The
ladies seem to be getting their best blushes out
from “home.”
Though a lot of lucre’s spent
On a splendid monument
To the memory of Miss Christina Gordon,
Not a bit will that avail
When she has to tell her tale ■
To St. Peter, on the other side of Jordan.
Though the virtues once possess'd
By the lady laid to rest
A colossal inece of granite they record on,
Not a sentence there engraved
Will assist her to be saved
At the judgment on the other side of Jordan,
In a graveyard all her own,
’Neath her consequential stone,
Christina lies,- because she could afford Tin ;
But, by paupers put to sleep,
In a careless, jumbled heap,
She'll be jostled on the other side of Jordan.
In the ocean or the ground
Bodies slumber ever sound,
E’en cremation they are going mad abroad on;
And the biggest monument
Doesn’t signify a cent
When they get ns on the other side of Jordan.
A Rising Architect.
OxE of the best known of the rising young architects oi
Sydney is Mr. R. Clarence Backhouse. He was educated
in Sydney, and served his noviciate in the office of hrs
father, Mr. Benjamin Backhouse, the chairman of the
City Improvement Board. Having finished his “ articles
he proceeded to England and there further perfected him-
self in his profession under several of the leading archi-
tects of London, subsequently visiting the principal cities
of Europe and America. In 1882 he commenced practise
for himself in Sydney, and so far has had a most success-
ful career. Amongst the principal buildings designed by
him are the New Central Station of the Electric Light
and Power Supply Co. of N.S.W.—one of the finest
erections in the city of Sydney, it being built entirely of
incombustible materials—the Elite Skating Rink, Red-
fern, the Crystal Palace Rink, and the Darhnghurst Kink.
This last is the largest rink in the world. It was built in
10 weeks, and though 300 men were employed m its con-
struction not a single accident occurred. Mr. Backhouse
also designed a large rink for Goulburn, and indeed is
regarded as the principal authority on rink building in
Australia, as he has been engaged as consulting architect
in regard to some of the largest edifices of this kind
beyond the confines of N.S.W. Mr. D. A. Bell's mansion
MR. R. C. BACKHOUSE, ARCHITECT.
at Rose Bay was built from his design, and he is now
engaged on the plans of a new Sydney theatre, the style
of which will be somewhat suggestive of the London
Gaiety, and which will have a sliding roof and he con-
structed entirely of fireproof materials.


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45,
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
OF
R O M A KT Y R Y DE3.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE,
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon,
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
Acting-Manager . ~ Mr. H. J. Magee,
Mr. Brough and Mr. Boucicault have much
pleasure in announcing -
A GRAND PRODUCTION,
on a scale of magnificence hitherto imattempted
in the colonies, of Lord Lytton’s Comedy,
Mon e y! 3VE one y!
IN FIVE ACTS,
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.20 p.m.
Job Davis, Business Manager.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove,
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L, Goodman.
Business Manager, Mr. B. N. Jones.
Last Two Nights of Bland Holt’s Company in
THE JACK.
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
New opera house
Kino and York Streets,
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. John Solomon.
Musical Director Mons. Henri Kowalski.
Stage Director Mr. Henry Bracy.
Treasurer & General Manager Mr. Joe Davis.
Mr. John Solomon’s English and Comic Opera
Company, under the Musical Direction of
MOMS. HENRI KOWALSKI.
Every Evening until Further Notice.
Tlie Beggar Student!
In Rehearsal, Moustiqtie,
Vlan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson's.
Admission —Dress Circle, ss. 5 Stalls, 35.; Pit, Is.
Private Boxes, £2 2s.
Doors open 7-15; Overture at 8 ; Carriages at 10.20.
Manage? for Mens, Kowalski, Phil Stuart.
Q.AIETY THEATRE.
THE WILLAHD-SHEIUDAN ENGLISH COMPANY.
Great Success of the Latest London Burlesque,
TWO LOVELY BLACK EYES,
OR,
THE SAILOR BOLD AND THE SMUGGLER SOLD.
Smiles, Simpei", Grins, Titters, G’ggles, Peai»
Shouts, and Hoars of Laughter,
0— —
CT OHN IF, SIHIIFiFIIOYULT
AS
THE BOLD SMUGGLER AND FOLEY.
Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices, 3s. 2s. and Is.
* Pemberton W. Willard.
EXHIBITION BUILDING.
Under the direction of Messrs. Iliscccks & Maomahon.
THE CRY IS STILL THEY CAME ! 1
The Silbons An The Stirks
The Silbons TSSfS" The Stirks
The Silbons picket! performers of The Stirks
The Silbons Am "<■*• The Stirks
' Special Trams leave Bridge-street at 7.37 and 7.45
nightly, returning after performance,
Band of Naval Artillery performs Nightly.
Prices —45., 2s, Od., and Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
NEXT GRAND MATINEE-SATURDAY, at 2.30 p.m.
Q Y C L O RAMA
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama!
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama!
Opposite Railway Station.
OPEN DAILY ... From 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
SUNDAYS, 3 to 10 p.m.
Admission, Two Shillings; Children, One Shilling.
Schools of 25 and upwards admitted at a reduction
of 25 per cent.
“Every detail is true to the life.”
A Gettysburg Veteran.
CYCLORAMA.
JJOSPITAL BAZAAR and VILLAGE FAIR,
Under the patronage of Lord and Lady Caring'ton,
—IN—
Aii) ok the City and Suburban Hospitals.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, Prince Alfred Park.
Opening Day, r>|li September,
The honorary Secretaries would be pleased to
receive the names of persons willing to assist the
ladies by promises of help with contributions to
the various stalls. Flowers, plants, &c., for the
Flower Pavilion ; presents of 1 foils for Doll-Stall;
Hand-painted Articles, (fee., for Art-Stall ; Fancy
Needlework, (fee., for Miscellaneous Stalls; Per-
fumery and Cigarettes for Perfumery Stall; Gifts
of Cakes, Confectionery, Jams, Jellies Preserves,
'Pea, Cocoa, Milk, Butter, Cheese Hams, (fee., for
the Dairy and Refreshment Stalls. Contributions
of Prizes for the “Grand Art pinion” in con-
nection with the alxive would be thankfully
acknowledged. The whole of the proceeds to be
devoted to this Hospital Fund, This object is a
noble one apd worthy of true assistance.
Tickets, 2s. each, may be had at all the City
Warehouses and by letter addressed to •
MRS. ALFRED ARDEN, \
MISS JULIA LELISARIO, /
Town Hall, Sydney.
Hon.
Sees.
Amusements.
IJJLITE SKATING RINK*
This Rink has the reputation of being
Best-conducted Eink in the Australian Colonies.
Here you are sure to meet the elite of Sydney v.
and Suburbs.
Admission . . * One Shilling. \
( Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets:
Gentlemen, 455.; Ladies, 40s. Season Skate Checks
for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen, 155.;
Ladies, 10s. Window Vineyard Lever Clamp
Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate Ticket
included, Gentlemen, 355. ; Ladies, 30s. Roller-
bearing, 15s. extra ; Ball-bearings, £4 extra.
Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair ; wholesale, 17s. 6d.
Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station every five
minuted for the rink ; patrons carried free,
Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bedford-
street, opposite the Rink.
fiRYSTAL PALACE SKATING ACADEMY
** COMPANY, Limited,
yor i? Street, Sydney.
The most popular Skating Resort in Australia.
Beautifully Decorated to Imitate
The ICE PALACE, MONTREAL, CANADA.
The Ice Palace of Australia*
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, cool, equal to any
skating surface in the world, and second to none.
This Palace is lighted by thousands of many-
coloured Incandescent Electric Lights provided by
the well-known firm, G. K. Kirkland and Co., 65
York-street, Sydney.
Great Improvements Fitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of competent Instructors.
Good Music by full Band, under the superinten-
dence of Mr. George Vaksie.
Exhibition in Skating by best Talent in the World.
A. F. Smith ... Manager,
SKATING RINK,
Harris Street, Ultimo.
Nearest Rink to Redfcrn Baihoay Station.
Finest 'Skating Surface in the Colony. TKt
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a-m. - Ladies and Children only; Admis-
sion FREE; Skates, Gd,
2.30 to 5 p.m.—Admission : Ladies, GJ., Skates,
Gd.; Gentlemen, Js., Skates, Gd.
7.30 to 10 p.m.—Admission tp all, Is.; Skates, Gd,
Double Ticket of Admission, is, 6d.
Weekly Tickets; Single, 35.; Double, 4s. Gd,
FLOORAGE FREE,
Larmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes,
Manager ... D. W. HIGGINS.
7JIROCADERO,
KING STREET, NEWTOWN-
.Most Complete and Elegant Skating Kink
In Australia,
Cool and "Refreshing Atmosphere ! The Open
Roof Boon to Skaters !
Grand Orchestra. Gorgeous Appointments.
Electric Light I
Skates Unequalled in the City!
TRAM-CARS STOP AT DOOR.
Look Out for
3XTovelties I 3NTovelties !
AND THE
Children's Carnival and Singing Competition.
Open Daily. Usual Rink Prices.
George Oughton ... General Manager.
SKATING RINK.
The Largest and Best, in the World. Remember—Seven
Times Round One Mile. Everyone Delighted.
Three Sessions:
10 a.m. to 12 noon, Ladies and Children only ; Admission
FREE—Skates, Od.
2.30 to 5 p.m. and 7.30 to 10 p.m.
ADMISSION . ONE SHILLING.
FANCY AND EVENING DRESS CARNIVAL,
Monday, 24th June,
Season Tickets are Now Ready.
Terms : Ladies’ Tickets, 80s.; Gentlemen, 355.;
Floorage Tickets, 15s.
Special Prices can bo arranged for Family Tickets.
R. J. AGINTON, Manager.
JJONDI AQUARIUM.
The most Popular
. lONIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff Daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to fl p.m.
Admission, is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate— Fare, 4<t
Miscellaneous,
S. FREEMAN A SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDERS,
llquare glue,
Extract of Soap,
Ipncgar, JJlacking,
&a, &o„
Steam Works and Brewery t
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
JOHN BEIDGE & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET , <fc
DARLING BARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, <t'C,
AUCTIONEERS.
GRiVIKT SALBSMiEKT.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allk’nds of Tinsfor Confectioner*,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. Trial Solicited.
JOHN - S-A-ZCnTIDS 7
ART TJKTIOKT,
FOR THE BENEFIT OP
The Hospital for Sick Children*
Glebe Point, Sydney.
Trustres :
His Honor Mr. Justice Stephen ; Hon. Oeo. 11. Reid,
M.L.A. ;“E. L. Montenore, Esq.; Professor T. P.
Anderson-Stuart, M.D. ; C. Cecil Griffiths, Esq. ;
H. 0. Kent, Esq.
MR, JOHN SANDS h,as the hrnour to
inL rm the Australian public that he has
arranged to dispose of his very large and valuable
collection of high-class
ENGRAVINGS, ETCHINGS,
PHOTOGRAVURES, «ScC„
By means of an Art Union officially sanctioned
by tfie Hon. the Attorney-General,
25 Per cent, will be given to the Hospital for
Sick Children.
5000 Tickets at One Guinea Each 5000
UNPRECEDENTED CHANCE!
EVERY TICKET WILL TAKE A PRIZE-
UNPARALLELED OFFER!
Every Prize Worth not less than
One Guinea.
£l5O First Frlze. £l5O
Will consist of Twelve Magnificent Engravings,
Etchings and Photogravures,
ALL HANDSOMELY FRAMED.
Second Prize, £100; Third Prize. £5O ; Fourth
Prize £25 ; Fifth Prize, £l5 15s; 3 at £l2 12s. ;
29 at £lO 10s. ; 40 at £8 Bs. ; 40 at £7 7s; 80 at
£6 6s. ;80 at £5 ss. ; 150 at £4 45.; 190 at £3 3s ;
250 at £2 2s. ; the remainder, 4133, at £1 Is. each.
EVERY TICKET TAKES A PRIZE!
THE DRAWING
will probably take place about the end of August.
The Prizes are now on View at
JOHN SANDS’ NEW FINE ART GALLERY,
322 GEORGE STREET 322
Tickets and Prospectuses may be had on appli-
cation to
J. A. STANLEY ADAM, Secretary.
•' Noxsoa
5
Sgife
*
NUV
Mid*
JillA
I^sna*
mm 0111)1
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 ) Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN ft CO..
Boston, U.S.A., Mfgs.
Furniture, &c.
NEW T O N AND LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS,
ďfd
Full suites for dining-room- side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
OELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
t I
This chair adjusts itself to'any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The al iovo
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
DRAWING -ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL' TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
E
WJ ALN U T FA L L
f? FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
G
—-
T\ R A W I N G -ROOM
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS-
Nkwton & Lamb.
PIANOFORTES by H. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONTSCH, L. NEUFELD ami
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES, NEWTON and LAMB.
f
Austrian hunt
wood
FURNI T U R K,
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs,
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. eacli.
NEWTON and LAMB.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed.
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
T3OCKTNG EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
ill restful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
sf
JJEDSTEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
;
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), bepfc make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE—Pine Tables, from
13. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitehen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. (id,;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 80s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s. ; Clothes Horses, from
]os. Gd. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manu>actort ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


PF'estern the Coming .
Now is the time to Invest your Few Pounds!
To Reap very shortly your Thousands!
where recent Rich Discoveries of Gold, Coal, Silver, Tin and other Minerals ha\< i*' ] l'‘ u^7.
3 wise ih time! Call oh the W.A. Agents (G W. Bent & Co.), aiK
Numerous Properties for Sale to suit Large and Small Buyers, Syndicate
. The eves bf the World are now on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where recent Rich Discoveries or uom, .vwai, ouvw, T"/r"w Rr c t r.\ ar i>
GOVERNMENT,(a certainity) it may, with truth, be said—“AT LAST SHE MOVES!” Be wise ih time! Call oh the W.A. Agents
pear the CITY OF ALBANY, While you can get it almost given ymi. 1
,and with RESPONSIBLE
:1 secure an allotnlent in or
s, &c., from £lO td £20,000
WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
119 a
•pyi -i street, n©y.
Department of Public Sydney,
June 18, 1889.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Repairs, &c., Police Buildings,
Wagga Wagga
Goulburn Old Courthouse, Re-
pairs.
West Kempsey Gaol, Alterations,
&c.
Ulladulla Police Buildings, Re-
pairs, «fec.
Courthouse, Moruya, Repairs.
Bridge, Darling River, at Wil-
cannia, Ironwork —Cont. No. 1
Bridge, Darling River, at Wil-
cannia, Erection—Cont. No. 2.
Brewarrina Post-office, Repairs.
Erection of Stables, &c., Hospital
for the Insane, Newcastle.
Bridge over Barwang Creek, Road
Douglas to Harden
Renewing Window Sashes, &c.,
Victoria Barracks
Supply of 1000 Tramway Sleepers
Supply of “ 20 ton ” Weighbridge
at Trial Bay '
Wednesday,
July 3,
at 11 o’clock.
Additional Cells, Lismore Gaol
Iron Bridge, Redbournebery,
Hunter River—Contract 1 (Ma-
terial)
Roofing Police Buildings, Albury
Flooring Dormitories, Hospital
for Insane, Parramatta
Additions, &c., Gaol, Balranald
Additions to Wharf, Seven Oaks,
Macleay River (fresh tenders)
Wednesday,
July 17,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
Business Announcements.
Y&
Corsets 1 have tried.”
(Signed) Marie Rose.
THE 9 \K
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric;
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
COACHING EXTRAORDINARY.
£20,000 Spent to Amuse and Interest the People,
Since 11th October, 1880, Mr. P. J. Rmhney’s
“ bonder” Stage ||oach
has covered no less than 163,595 English miles in
perfect safety, and Mr. Rumney intends to run
it again this year between Hatchett’s Hotel,
Piccadilly, and the fine old Cathedral Town of
St. Albans. The Trip is one that no intelligent
colonist visiting England, ought,to miss, as it will
rejoice his heart, purify his blood, and enlarge his
views of English scenery and manners.
Take it down in your pocket-book i
Mr. F. J. Runaney,
The “Wonder” Coach,
Hatchett’s Hotel, PlccadlUy, London.
CHUBB & PE.AEGEK,
PHOTOGRAPHERS,
(Late of Regent Street, London,)
“ Empire Galleries/' BEALE'S CHAMBERS,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
OUR PREMISES are now in Full Working
Order again—all damages caused to our
Furniture and Plant by late rains being com-
pletely renovated.
We invite inspection of Show Cases and Rooms.
All orders entrusted to us will receive the greatest
attention, and as the firm are Practical Artists
themselves we can ensure our work being properly
done.
JOHN LAWLER
SOUS,
608, 610, 612 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Bedding and Wire Mattress
MANUFACTURERS,
UPHOLSTERERS
AND
CABINETMAKERS.
The Largest Stockholders
OP
GUIS IB OLA-Xj
FURNISHING REQUIREMENTS
IN ALL AUSTRALASIA.
Telephone No. GO.] [Established ISGO.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR SALE. — A Quantity of Second-hand
NEWSPAPER TYPE in case and bulk.
For full particulars apply to the Printer, Bulletin
Office.
Medical.
Sf
9
•M
Q'Ctu
Dr. H. EWART FLETCHER
Sufferers from NERVOUS DEBILITY cah get a
clear insight into their cases by sending for Dr.
Fletcher’s Treatise on “ Nervous Complaints,” their
Cause, Symptoms, Treatment and Cure.
This admirable treatise is gpecialWwritten to show
a method of counteracting the evil*encots of indis-
cretion in early life, overwork, irregularity in eating
or drinking, etc., etc., all of which bring in their tram
a number of diseases which are generally classed
under the head of Nervous Complaints. Dr. Fletcher
has spent a great many years in the study of these
diseases, and has treated a large number of cases
during his private practice, and, in consequence of
the success that has attended his efforts, has decided
to bring his medicines more prominently before the
public, and to give to sufferers generally the benefit
of his great experience in these diseases. Dr, Flet-
cher wishes it to be distinctly understood that he
reserves to himself the right of refusing to undertake
any case, but if he does undertake it, he is willing to
give a Written Guarantee to cure same, or return
all moneys paid. Persons of both sexes who ex-
perience the following symptoms, viz.. Dizziness,
Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the Back, Defective
Memory, Loss of Energy and Vitality and Will Power,
Constipation, Premature Decay, Liver and Kidney De-
rangements, &c., &c., should send for this book at
once, as it contains in a concise form, simple direction*
to overcome same. , ....... .
Remember, Dr. Fletcher does not wish to infer that
he can perform miracles, but merely claims to be
thoroughly skilled in the treatment of these diseases.
Thousands have been cured by him, and he invites
sufferers to investigate his statements, by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. Dr. Flet-
cher’s treatment is both simple and effective, and
within the reach of .the poorest. The treatise wul be
forwarded on receipt of two stamps, to cover postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance;
Da. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.0., Sydney.
Private Residence: “ Clonmel,” Waverley.
■OR. SMITH, XJ.S.A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
Tn PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of ROTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS t
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... Prom 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Hotels.
HAWKESBURY RIVER,
SUMMER SEASON.
Sanitorium Hotel,
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and ha\ mg
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River. , ' , , ,
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths tor
visitors; gas through the house (a 'novelty);
superbly furnished ; boating and fishing ; three-
quarters of a mile from the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates. .
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See that you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &c.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
” Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.
FOR SALE. — Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bult etin Office.
WfywHisHi
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
£
K
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY,
B - A GENTS W A N T
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
©
NEW BILU&RB TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORV
IffllXUMto OTEHIONSj fto., MADE ON THE PREMISES.
@M Tables refitted by out own mesa.
OLOEHO STTIB.IA.'KaLB is atook.alae CRICKET, LAWK TKNSII & KDWI&,
BTTRROTI6HES & WATTS
1, im MW SM, SMI, S.S.W.. M(i Sotojpaw,: UWM.
The Referee.
Hon. James White is sending to England
a pair of sturdy mules with an idea of running
them for the Derby. We HWe seen their pictures
ili a Sydney sporting print;
$ # $
‘ ‘ Pendragdil ” admits Spalding’S base-
ballers have merits, but consider them as st) much
good cricket material diverted to a loiter Use.
'A*
If Pugilist Jackson goeS to England he
will become popular with the Tories, and can act
the part of Othello, to the noble Dallies of the
Primrose League. For Peter is the Only promin-
ent pugilist who lias hot got Irish blood in his
veins. Even Charley Mitchell and Jem Smith,
the English champi ns, are of Hibernian descent.
# * #
Here is a translation of the no ms de plume
of the leading Melbourne sporting writers, from
30 years ago to the present“ Voltigeur,” Levey;
“Tout Cela ” arid “ Nimrod’s Ghost,” Hamilton ;
“Orange BlossOnl ” and “Augur,” Chapman;
‘ ‘ Peeping Tom, ” Yuille, senr.; ‘ ‘ Playboy, ” Yuille,
junr.; “Beacon” and “Falcon,” Bond; “Asmo-
deus,” M’Culloch ; “Sterling,” Bradshaw ; “ Vigi-
lant,” Link. The oddest of the departed was
Dicker Hamilton, by all odds. Professor Brad-
shaw is the most mysterious of the living. Though
he was so mashed up by a railway accident and
got such damages, hardly any other man, perhaps
not even a Corrigan, could take Yellow Hammer
over a flight of hurdles.
* # #
The daily papers are publishing what pur-
ports to be cable announcements each time King-
master is entered for a second-rate handicap race
in England. This will get very tiring before the
year is out. Already we are beginning to wish
that Ringmaster were dead.
# # #
The fag-end of that “ hundred leading
English bookmakers” banqueted by Joe Thomp-
son would inevitably form a shockingly shy lot.
* * *
Only 32 nominations have been obtained
for the Moonee Valley (Melb.) Champion Stake,
which, even at that, will be a dog-race well worth
annexing. With the promoter’s £'3oo added there
will be available for the winning dog £620, and for
the runner-up £2OO. Also £5O each tor the losers
in the filial ties, and £25 each for the four dogs
knocked out in the preceding round. Yet coursing
interest is weak in Melbourne.
* * *
“Fine Bowling by Spofforth ” was a cable
headline with which our estimable dailies en-
deavoured to tickle the Kangaroo last week. The
performance of no other bowler in the Derbyshire
Yorkshire match was (as far as _we noticed)
mentioned at all, nor was a word said about the
•condition of the turf on which Spof. obtained 15
wickets for 81 runs. Consequently it would read
like an astounding feat but for the fact that York-
shire, the county that the “ demon ” trundled
against, actually won the match in question by 5-f
runs. Herein is clear evidence, that one York-
shireman obtained a better average than our ex-
countryman, or else that two or three men ran
him uncommonly close. In the Anglo-Australian
matches a little “ blow ” was understandable, but
there was positively no excuse for cabling over the
doings of renegade Spof. when they must have
been equalled or surpassed by the Britishers.
When the full particulars about this “fine bowl-
ing ” come to hand, The Bulletin will have a
further opportunity of showing how the cable
misrepresents every matter of Australian interest,
♦wen down to Spof.’s hurling of a lump of leather.
# # *
The ball of the season —Football.
# ' * *
* Major Devore, of Auckland, is making
strenuous exertions to provide a huge four-day
carnival as a fitting celebration of the Jubilee year
of the colony and the Province. It is proposed
that one day each shall be devoted to aquatics,
horse-racing, football, and other sports, the prizes
being on so liberal a scale that it is hoped repre-
sentatives from all parts of Australia will be
1 iresent.
# * *
Black Samuels was quite right in not going
to America. He would there have been crushed
by handicaps and when lie fell ill he might have
Keen left to die in the gutter like a rat. Let Black
Samuels stick to his own country. He will find
Australia a hard enough country when his fieetness*
shall have departed and nobody can make any
money out of him. Several of the fleetest abori-
ginal and half-caste runners are now in sad straits
in Sydney.
* * *
The Carington sixth Consultation Handi-
cap was won by W. Kennedy, who is a better man
than was generally supposed, and Rdbards pulled
off the Botany.
# * *
The Deniliquin J.C. state that A.J.C.
rules are to be strictly adhered to at their July
meet, and in the same breath remark that “ All
races are to be run right-handed as in Victoria. ’
Ye gods ! Clibborn’s hair will stand on end when
he notices it.
# # #
Horses not only have their “day out ” lint
evince a partiality for some racecourses and an
avei si. ,n for others. Warwick Farm course should
be known as Paddy’s Land sinfca its two first meet-
ings have brought success to the animal with the
classical HibertliaM frame:
I * •
A hig American nigger called Billy Wilsdil
is out with a challenge to fight Peter Jackson. He
says that the champion’s last three opponents
adopted a Wrong system in fighting, and lie feels
confident of being able to “do ” for Peter. Massa,
Wilsoil is likely to be a blatherskite Who wants
Jackson’s presence to help him get gate-money.
# # #
The exhibition of football by the Maori
team at the Association Ground (Sydney) oil
Saturday last, in the match agairi§t N.S.W., was
disappointing, and with the record df their British
victories in remembrance,, we must state ouf
belief that the visitors did not shoW their true
form. New South Wales i§ Unquestionably
weak at football, : ahd it i§ ridiculous to
imagine that, at the beginning df the season,
too, they should play as good a game as
the doughty Maorilanders in hard training and
knowing mdre about the game perhaps than
any 15 Othet inert,. White dr coloured, on top of the
earth. The Bulletin anticipates a more exciting
game hext Saturday, and really hopes the manage-
ment will let us see how many points the team can
beat our boys by.
Sweet Home.
“There is no place like home” runs the old
song, and we know how true it is.
Go where we will—encounter men in whatever
circumstances we may—We shall be apt to find
that a reference to their homes will immediately
secure their attention, and will give you favour in
their eyes.
The impressions made in the home are lasting.
A mother’s words never pass from the mind. A
father’s council remains fresh so long as life lasts.
The last benediction of parental love and solicitude
—with what tenacity it clings to the memory
when almost all else have gone.
How important therefore, that the home be
maintained intact as long as possible—a haven of
loving council, of peace and joy to the growing
children. How sad when death invades, when
the fire goes out on the hearthstone, and the
family is scattered. What the children lose by
the death of a parent only those realize who have
grown up without that love and advice which a
parent alone can bestow.
No doubt, tens of thousands of parents have
found premature graves, who might have lived
years of usefulness, had they but known what was
sapping their strength, and slowly but surely
pushing them into the grave.
There are tens of thousands of parents to-day
in agony of mind through fear of death from
kidney disease, who do not know they are doctor-
ing only symptoms —such as wakefulness, nervous-
ness, a splendid feeling one day and an all-gone one
another, dropsy, weak heart action, pneumonia,
neuralgia, fickle appetite, etc., while the real
trouble is poisoned blood, caused by diseased
kidneys. Unless purified with Warner’s Safe Cure
they will just as surely die, as though poisoned
with arsenic.
If you are suffering as described, and have been
for any length of time,_ you are, unless you get
relief right speedilly, stricken with death, whether
you know it or not.
Doctors publicly admit that they cannot cure
advanced kidney disease ; they are too conserva-
tive to use Warner’s Safe Cure because it is an
advertised remedy ; consequently, useless you use
your own good judgement, secure and use Warner’s
Safe Cure, a specific, which has proved itself in
tens of thousands of cases to be all it is represented,
your home will be broken up, and your loved ones
deprived of that which money cannot purchase, or
friends supply.
Already too many loving parents, noble, kind
and true, have gone down to premature graves
through ignorance of their condition. It is time
to cry a halt, and we beg of you, for the love you
bear your home and the duty you owe yourself, to
give this matter your careful and conscientious
consideration.


Tobacso, etc.
BARBER'S
SUPPLY HOUSE.
Hairdressers
If you want EVERY or any REQUISITE for
Fitting out or Furnishing your Saloon,
APPLY TO
Craig* & Aitten’s
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
Whore you can get, at lower prices than at any
other House in the Trade :
Hairdressing CRairs,
SHAMPOOING APPARATUS,
Mirrors* Hot Water Urns*
Brushes, Combs, Scissors, Razors,
BROWN & SHARPE S HAIRCLIPPERS,
CREAM OF LIMES (in Bottle and Bi lk),
Sprays, Antique Oil,
COSMETIQUES, POMADE HONGROISE
Ids’ And every other necessary. "Si
♦
American Hairdressing Chairs, from £C\
Colonial „ „ from £2los.
SOLE AGENTS for the CELEBRATED
i
Razors and Scissors.
Complete Saloon Outfit,
FROM JEIO UPWARDS!
+
Assistants Engaged for Town & Country
Customers.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
WHOLESALE
Tobacco and Cigar Merchants,
Rpg to call the attention of COUNTRY STORE-
KEEPERS and TOBACCONISTS to their
Prices, which will compare favourably with any
in the trade.
All the Leading Brands of
TOB A CCO, CIGA R S,
AND
CIGARETTES,
IN STOCK.
*
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
ARMY & NAVY
Tobacco and Cigarettes,
lyulcan Pipes and Tobaccos,
AND
MY SWEETHEART
CIGAEETT lE.
AN IMMENSE ASSORTMENT
of every kind of
pipes. Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking
Sticks, Cutlery, See., See.
o
SILVER•MOUNTED
Meerchaum and Briar Pipes,
A Bargain!
Send for our Price List, and judge for yourselves!
+
Not.i Address—
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Tobacco and Cigar Merchants,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET,
(next to PuiDDY & CO., The Halter*)
Brickfield Hill. Sydney.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair. — To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowland
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the besc
preserver, strengthener, and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kalvdor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous
eruptions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask
dealers in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton
Garden London.
When next yon bake try Pemell's Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from HocriXGS, of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.
Special Advertisements.
DR. SPRBR’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
4:2 Margaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 188 S). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
hihi will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is rot
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
he claims only to bo a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL - DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment wifi
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. .1.
Si'KKR, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Street’s, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m.’to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
Special Advertisements.
E. C. EUEY
sdfs
$
535
<3
&
c*
A
*
&
&
O
<d
*
<b
v
v
£
£
&
o
o
*
£
&
*
*
o
&
&
o
&
*
o
&
o
v
V
<£>
A
<< N
A
.0
o
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDXEIY.
7s S
I
fc V
i ■ r ~
. J S£a
tod*
*»
in*
:. i
mcijlfl PUCIO-U& CO-. I BBICCE'STm CtONtfe
Tlx® Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ■• Ppopkietok.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just laudittg.
farleigh, NETTHEIM & CO.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, * SY3DKTEY.
Sole Agents fur the above fur New South Wales and Queensland.
x j ——
AT o O Importers of Requisites for the ROOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
I\IPOUTII> I FATHERS, (See.; and of the following Spkciai. Links: IVeHess <.l»ss, Haliii liollsli, >ul>iiiii
Tools ami Materials i*" Fronted on Favourable Terms,
Medical.
DR. KKHARDS.
m
pi
vmm
* saMVHoia_M3
-j' iM it ...
SNC> 3
li"!
s vsiqoa
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN j
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to lug
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
he day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
rregularity of the bowels, specks before (he eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blcod, hast5 r , uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, p.alpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead t o in-
anity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of (id. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND j
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expcnce. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
hough you be p rfectly well its general inform-
ion and prescription may assist you in restoring
ome poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE FOUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
onderstand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but s’xpenco ; enclosed
;n the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but. the purest, remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by Are,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
I hemaatvao. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 26,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communicat ions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
•7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
IRRELEVANT
“MAMMA AT THE PONCE DE LEON HOP, LAST NIGHT, ME. DE RITCH ASKED
ME TO BE HIS WIFE.”
“OF COURSE YOU ACCEPTED HIM?”
“OF COURSE—BUT HE BEGAN SO QUEERLY.”
“HOW? ”
“HE ASKED ME IF I LOVED HIM! ’—PUCK.


Companies.
—THE—
Imperial Land, Building & Deposit Co.
(Limited), New South Wales,
Hoffnung's Buildings, 171 Pitt St., Sydney.
Managing Directors:
ALEX. MILSOP, Esq., J.P., Chairman.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD, Esq. WM. MARTIN, Esq., J.P.
E. V. MANNING, Esq. WM. BYRNES, Esq.
General Manager:
WILLIAM P. SMAIRL, Esq., J.P.
mUIS Company undertakes all usual Banking and Build-
* ing Society business on the most favourable terms.
Fixed and Current Deposits received and nterest allowed
at the following rates : ; —l2 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months,
6 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent. Advances to Munici-
palities on the Security of Rates on very Liberal Terms.
On City, Suburban and Country Properties at Lowest
Current Rates. Liberal assistance given to build or pur-
chase. Annuities purchased or advanced on. Mortgages
guaranteed, the punctual repayment of interest or prin-
cipal, or both. Dividends collected in the United Kingdom
or the Colonies. Communications addressed to the
General Manager will receive prompt attention.
Western Australia,
The Coming Colony,
Is rapidly progressing. Her vast Mineral Resources
ire. being opened wp, and property is hardening in
value.
Make a Profitable Investment and Purchase
Land at
df
The Capital City.
Allotments right in the City!
From £33 £3 a c b..
Allotments close to the City,
Prom Ten Pounds each Lot.
Good Land. Well Situated. Easy Terms,
Title Guaranteed Indisputable.
Pamphlets and Marked Plans Post Free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Co.,
LIMITED,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
T the FEDERAL HELP COMPANY.
Wanted—GrENERAL Servants, Cooks, House-
maids, Nurses, &c.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices : 72 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(near Hunter Street).
J, Strafford Dixon ... Secretary.^j|
Tobacconists.
“Can’t B Beat.”
“CANT B BEAT!”
Mick Simmonds, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist* The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “Can’t B Beat.”
Something New! Something New !
The 163 Package, “ Can't B Beat ” (registered)
Smoker’s Compauionl
containing the following :
lib. Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
lib. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American To oacco
11b. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 1 H S Manila Cigars
X Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
slb. Long Cut, American
Delivered Free at Redfern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent, saved ! Note the address.
MICK SIMMONS,
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarket, Sydney.
SMOKE NOTHING
BUT
PIPES.
B
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents ;
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
MKLACHUINOA
MKLACHRINOI
MELACHHIVOI
MKLACHLUITPf
MKLACHEW* ,
MELACHRINbj
M. Melachrino & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
All the Courts and Embassies of Europe;
ALL TUB
Leading British and Continental Clubs
and Regimental Messes.
- Have the Largest Sale in the World!
Universally Acknowledged to be the Boat.
Soi.k Agents:
WARREKT & ROW3ST,
It Itnrrark Street, Sydney.
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 6 Cigarette ... Bf./- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100.
„ No. 8 ' , C 6- „ 7/- „
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention
Business Announcements.
w
THE PREMIER TOBACCONISTS.
ADDRESS:
er 6 PARK STREET, SYDNEY
(off GEORGE STREET).
American Cut Tobaccos.
LONG CUT 2ozs., 9d.
R.C. RUBY 2ozs., 9d.
WHITE OAK 2oza., 9d.
GOBBLEAF 2ozs., 9d.
MIXTURE 2ozs., 9d.
NAILROD 2ozs., 9d.
BARRETTS’ 2ozs., Bd.
CAVENDISH 2ozs., Bd,
Colonial & ZESixslisli Cut Tobaccos.
FINE CUT (Dark) 2ozs., Od
FINE CUT (Bright) 2ozs., 6d.
CODDLEAF 2ozs., Od.
LONDON SHAG 2ozs., 6c]
MIXTURE 2ozs., 6d
BRISTOL BIRD’S EYE ... 2ozs., 6d
These Tobaccos Cut Fresh every Day. Special Reductions for lib. Parcels.
the Address : 6 PARK STREET (ONLY).
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
GASFITTERS, ART & MedLEVAL METAL V\ ORKRRS.
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCOED WOEKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Eoad, Petersham.
sdf
EVERY LADY HER OWN DRESSMAKER
BY USING
MADAME WEIGEL’S J3UT PAPER PATTERNS.
“WEIGEL’S JOURNAL and CATALOGUE OF FASHIONS,” contain-
ing Illustrations of all the Newest Styles, sent to any part of the country
on receipt of (lOd.) Postage Stamps,
Iv.lada.me WBIG-BL,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Near Tramway).
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR
Pfll
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR
FOR PRIVATE USE IS UNSURPASSED.
Genuine German Hollow Ground ; set ready for use. Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each
rSot for Two Years. Price—Single Razor, 10/6 ;or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is.
Send Post Office Order.
CRAIG A AITKEN, Potosi Hair-Cutting Saloon,
Nine Haircutters Always Employed !
680 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
,
Vilws Portraits
5^
m
m
m
%
C 1/
sdf
s
%
JOiVCIMES
" Ev/ <% EA
SS. ISLANDS
YiSfiEiy.
Lichtner £f Kilburn,
318 a George Street, Sydney,
PHOTO GRAPHIC STOCK IMPORTERS,
Late LICHTNER & CO., 32 O’Connell Street.
—
%, ICHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the -very many friends, both Amateur
* aiK i Professional, of the late Firm that, having effected a change by the admis-
f gio n into Partnership of Mr. D. C. KILBURN, and removal into more commodious
and centrally-situated premises at
jSIo. 318 a GEORGE STREET.
(Between Hunter Street and the General Post Office.*
A trust t h a t they will receive as generous and continuous patronage in the future as has
\ been accorded for the past years. They also take advantage of this opportunity of
f returning thanks to their numerous clients for favours bestowed, and will endeavour
to still deserve their kind attention in the future.
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Drapery.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Pitt Street.
Sporting.
Adam Bede’s
Benevolent Consultations.
“all the year round.” .
Twenty years before the Public.
Melbourne Cup Programmes now ready.
One tenth of Adam Bede’s commission on all
future events ivill be devoted to charity.
2000
fsd
m
m
NOW OPEN
Coronation Handicap,
Run at Canterbury Park, Sydney,
JUNE 29, 1889.
SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
FIRST HORSE ... £BOO
SECOND HORSE ... 300
THIRD HORSE ... 200
Sttrters, £300; Non-Starters, £400; to. be
divided amongst them.
July Handicap,
Run at Rosehill,
JULY 20, 1889.
SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
FJRST HORSE ... £lOOO
SECOND HORSE ... 000
THIRD HORSE ... 400
Starters, £000; Non-starters, £800; to be
divided amongst them.
Adam Bede’s
Is the only fair method of drawing.
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bede until after the races have been run.
Subscribers must register their letters to ensure safe
delivery, and must enclose stamps and envelopes for
reply and result, and add Is. exchange to cheques.
Address—
“ ADAM
BEDE,”
Care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
(
I
Square & Compass
* CLUB.
ss. Consultations. ss.
k An unlimited number of members
at ss. each.
FIRST HORSE
SECOND HORSE
THIRD HORSE
50 per cent-
-30 per cent.
20 per cent.
N.B.— The Square and Compass Club closes all Com
sulfations at the hours advertised, posts and distributes
results half-an-hour before each race-thus showing the
bona fidcs of the affair. The rooms where the telegrams
are posted can be visited by subscribers only. The full
results of every event are always advertised In the Sr.-iDAt
Times and Referee following the races.
Motto ; “ Fair and Square.”
Look at the Dividends we have paid on the l>o\*
caster Handicap;— Rusaley, £95 3s. 6d.; Plutarch, £7
2s. 9d. ; Kady Kingsboro’ £l2 3s. lOd.
CONSULTATION ON EVERY EVENT.
Note the address of the original -
Square & Compass Club,
Care ok M. Pal m,
656 GEORGE STREET 050
COLONNADE.
“ TATTERSALL S ”
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal racs-i througl)
out the year.
.See Evening News “Brevities” for full par-
ticulars, or write to “ Tatteri-all,” care if Gto.
Adams, Pitt-street, Sydney.
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR, (or Pupils Learning the
Piano. Price, 3s. Cd. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without, a knowledge of Music, 6s. Cd., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
81l I T T E N B E R<■ & C <>.,
• IM POUTERS,
SI Clarence St, Mjnyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors. OUonrnfiht, and Mouldingi.


Horslord’-. Arid PliO'ipliale,
FOR 1ND10KSTI0N,
Dyspepsia, and diseases incident thereto.
FISH I FISH! FISH!
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
To Fish Consumers in Town & Country.
o'
WE ARE PREPARED TO SUPPLY
Fish Frozen in Solid Blocks of Ice,
the blocks containing 301 b., 151 b., and 101 b. assorted fish.
Price, 3d., 4d., and sd. peril)., according to the kinds of
fish desired.
ICE GRATIS! ICE GRATIS!
Mocks delivered free at Railway Station, packed go an to
carry to any part of the colony, for Ss. ltd. per block extra.
Instructions sent w ith each package how to treat the
fish so that they will keep for several days. The fish are
obtained direct from the fishing ground, and guaranteed
perfectly fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will be Forwarded on receipt
of Post-office Ordor for the Amount.
All orders to he gent to the Works—
Kensington St., Sydney,
T. D. KYLE ... Manager,
i
iLV
YiW m
1 \» I
i /
*/
'll*.
m
BEALE <Sc CO.'S
NEW WAREHOUSE.
VI
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
484, k 488 Gsorae Street*
SYDNEY
Revolutionising
THE PIAKTO TMA-OE,
Messrs. Beale & Co.’s Great Enterprise.
mIIERE can be no questioning the fdyt that the Piano
' Trade of these Colonies lias undergone a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desirable
change certainly no firm has contributed more' than
Messrs. Beale and Company. During the time high prices
continued the trade was held by a few, and hundreds of
homes nov. rendered attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce could dream of becoming the ultimate
owners of the instrument-which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic li e.
When Beale'and Company commenced business they
had quietly gauged this condition of affairs in Australia,
and t hey began operations on a plan which could alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such as
they proposed. With the Australian selling branch of
their enterprise they resolved to combine the manufacture
of Pianos in Germany—the centre of the world’s trade for
that instrument. But the experts sent out herefor Ihe
purpose of fully determining what was best fitted for
Colonial requirements reported that it was essential to
have a special make of piano to suit our climate-an in-
strument as different as those made for Europe as Aus-
tralia is different from the Old World. The Result of this
was the production of the staunchest pianoforte of
modern times—the Iron-framed “ Hapsburg.” The in-
strument is regarded by the most capable experts of
Europe as the Production of the Age, combining as
it does every feature of the highest class instrument with
the maximum of strength and durability, and it was placed
on the market at prices much under what other firms and
manufacturers had previously demanded. Although it
took almost endless trouble and long, patient labour to
produce the design of the “Inimitable Hapsburg,”yet once
produced the demand grew so rapidly, and has become so
great, that the enterprising originators are able to out-
distance all competitors for both quality and price. The
pecnliar construction of the iron frame, the excellence
of the wires, and the unique movement’s have, with all
other factors, contributed to this splendid success. No
other instrument possesses to the same degree such rich,
full, clear, bell-like tones, so noticeable in the “ Haps-
burg,” especially in the higher grades, while strength,
solidity, and imperviousness to climatic influences have
heen-so well looked to that whether on-the coldest, bleak-
est spots of New Zealand or our own Monaro Plains, or in
the hottest of our Western and Northern areas, (his
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, but improves its
tone and consequent value even after years of use. And
it must continue so. The genius‘and experience of the
mechanical world in this branch of art are embodied in
this one instrument-the inimitable “Hapsburg”— and
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute iii which
it is held. Beale & Company have placed the
“Hapsburg” with thousands of families in Australia.
Homes in the far-distant back blocks, and homes in the
city, are not only enlivened but are made purer and better
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved to
do a large trade by selling these superior instru-
ments at prices and on terms demanded for the
lower grades, and success has crowned their efforts.
They do by far the largest business, and hold the
largest stocks in the colonies. They give their best
efforts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Time-payment which they have made peculiarly
their own. The correspondence department is of itself a
hug > undertaking ; every mail brings its burden of letters.
From the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
the astute merchant they come. And they came too
from clergymen, from doctors and solicitors, from civil
servants, and from the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every grade
and class now recognise the influence which music exert s
for good in the life of the home. And every writer re-
ceives courteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsburg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the following Advantages —
-Ist. —The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverberated
by a sounding board of special construction, are
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tin-
kettly, or metallic sounds so common in cheap
Pianos.
2nd. —Being double oblique the strings are of a
greater length and fuller tone than in the old
straight-strung Pianos.
3rd. —The action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4th. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
sth.—They are all seven Octaves.
(Ith.—They have consolidated Iron Frames of
great strength, thus resisting the rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate," whereby tuning is
only required at long intervals.
7th. They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cock-
roaches, silver-fish, mice, &c. They have wire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by vermin,
and other unique improvements devised for
similiar ends.
Bth.—‘•The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers,
instead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every Piano except the llaps-
Oth.—They have brass or nickel-faced Wrest-
plauks, instead of the old-fashioned perishable
style.
10th.- Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
11th. The outer eases are handsome in design,
and of durable beautiful woods; they can lie
had in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or in
ebony and gold.
32th. No matter in what part of the colony yon
live, we will supply you with a Hapsburg Piano
upon easy terms of payment. No charge will be
made for packing or for packing cases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by post or from our
own travellers everywhere.
His Flea!
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Australians residing in or visiting the centres of
population are mote ot less familiar with that
modern invention, the automatic selling-machine,
but only those who have lately come from abroad
can have any idea of the extent to which these
things are patronised and the marvellous improve-
ments lately effected in them. In our country
they ate to be met with only here and there in the
One dr two principal thoroughfares bf the large
cities; 111 Loudon they are placed at intervals
frequently df only a few yards along every
thoroughfare of any pretension to size or respect-
ability ; as many as eight or ten are to be seen on
the platform df one railway-station, and you
meet with them outside and inside the
theatres, and around and about every dther
class of buildings, frequented by the great
mass of the public. Every shop-assistant
goes about with a long face in the firm belief that
his bread is about to be taken out of his mouth by
the automatic box, as it is alleged that that of the
mechanic has already been taken by machinery of
Other descriptions. Nor can an Australian be
aware of the numerous uses to which these ma-
chines ate put in the did country. Not only with
correct weight and sweetmeats as here, but with
matches, tobacco, cigars, electric shocks, bouquets,
bottles of scent, photographs of celebrities, and
numerous other articles and services of a similar
and dissimilar nature can be supplied you in Eng-
land by these ingenious contrivances.
# * #
Among the latest of these machines is
one which is in many respects superior to
its predecessors. In these latter you have to
put in “ pennies only in this, are several com-
partments, each containing articles at a different
price, perhaps chocolate at a penny, plugs of
tobacco at twopence, and cigars at threepence and
fourpence, and if you require a fourpenny cigar
you can drop into the slot either four pennies, eight
halfpennies, or sixteen farthings, or a mixture of
all those coins; and so long as you place in four-
pence you get your Havannah. There is only one
drawback about this marvellous invention : it
wouldn’t give you change if you dropped in six-
pence ; but this, no doubt, will ere long be recti-
fied. The active agent in this machine is elec-
tricity. On board one of the most luxuriously*
fitted of the steamers plying between Australia
and England there wa.s placed, for the amusement
of the passengers and the aggrandisement of the
owners, one of these machines. Never was there
invented a more delightful expedient for varying
the monotony of a sea voyage. Hardly had the
vessel left London than the machine was literally
besieged by passengers who racked their brains to
discover how many ways the sum of fourpence
could be made up, and who, having solved the
problem, inserted their money and obtained in re-
turn Havannahs of delicious aroma, and then re-
ared to test, by smoking, whether the cigars were
really real.
* * *
Adapted to the more limited mathematical
capacity of the ladies, as the psychologists have it,
were compartments with chocolate and butter-
scotch for a penny. A sweet girl graduate soon
discovered that there were only four ways of mak-
ing up a penny. Resenting’ this unjust estimate
of the mental capacity of her sex, and determining
to uphold the rights of a woman, she patronised the
fourpenny compartm'ent, which necessitated her
indulgence in cigars. But a continued revelling
in this passion for automatic boxes required an
unlimited supply of coppers. This had been fore-
seen by an astute Yankee, who had brought on
board among his luggage a number of chests laden
witli copper coin, which he exchanged for silver at
an extortionate commission. At length, how-
ever, the contents of the automatic box had be-
come well nigh exhausted, the Yankee's supply of
coppers quite so, and the passengers, with scarcely
an exception, terribly sea-sick, owing to the large
amount of sweetmeatsand smoke they had swallowed
and the very rough weather that had now over-
taken them. While the other passengers were
below, the Yankee, who had ref rained irom all
indulgence either in sweetmeats or tobacco, was
pacing the deck in pleasant reverie, calculating his
profits from the automatic mania, and so absorbed
as to be utterly unconscious of the heavy rain
witli which he was being drenched.
* * #
The next morning it was found that the auto-
matic box had been robbed of all its contents, which
at the time of the robbery comprised nearly the
wholeof thecoppers that the passengers had inserted.
These, on search being made, were discovered
amongst the luggage of the Yankee, who was
apprehended for the theft. He admitted having
taken the money and other articles from the
automatic box, and offered to explain to his
custodians the reason for the alleged theft. They
however, told him to reserve his statements for
the magistrate before whom, on the arrival of the
vessel in port, he would be taken.
# # #
Before the magistrate the American set up a
defence which we venture to think is without
parallel in police-court annals. Said he :“1 was
educated for the medical profession, which, however,
I never adopted, but became soon after I had ob-
tained my diploma, an electrical engineer. This
profession 1 followed for some years, and with such
success that 1 accumulated a fortune, not large,
perhaps, but sufficient to enable me to spend the
rest of my days without labour and in moderate
luxury. I determined to travel, and after I had
spent some two years in different parts of the
United Kingdom, secured a passage for Australia
on board the steamer on which I was apprehended
on this false charge of theft. On the evening
prior to my arrest I was walking on deck while
the other passengers were below, for the most
part sea-sick, there being at the time a very heavy
thunderstorm. On passing the automatic-box I
saw, much to my surprise, the whole of its con-
tents, including the money that had been placed
in it, scattered upon the deck. An ex-
amination of the box showed me it was much
disordered. By the aid of my knowledge of elec-
trical engineering I put it light and placed Lack
.its contents. I then continued my walk.
In passing the box a few minutes later, I found it
again in the same state of disorder with its con-
tents, as before, on the deck. Again I readjusted
the box, but this time I waited by to sec whether
it would again discharge, and, in the event of its
doingso, try to discover thee mse of the phenomenon.
I had been waiting some few minutes and my
thoughts had become wholly abstracted from my
surroundings, when 1 was startled from my
reverie by a suocessit n of blows that were rained
about my head and free by a number of bard sub-
stances. I was completely stunned, .and fell
heavily on the deck. As soon as [ regained my
senses I set about di. c vering by whom or what 1
hail been attacked. I found that the box had
again discharged its contents, and 1 had not the
slightest doubt that it was by the Hying
coins and sweetim ats that I had been assailed.
The character of the bruises about my head
aud face will, n > doubt, incline your wor-
hip to the same opinion. I meditated as
to what could be the cause of this repeated dis-
charge of the box, arid at last came td what I
conceive is a solution of the matter.
* * #
“ In reading Faraday some years ago I met with
a statement which made a deep impression on my
mind. It was to the effect that extensive investi-
gation had proved to that celebrated niari that
electricity and nerve-power, although not identical;
were so much alike that it was impossible for him
to say in what they differed. Later on I read in
one of the English medical journals a paragraph
which convinced me of the truth df Faraday’s
statement. A celebrated London physician had
obtained two rabbits, to both of which he had
given a meal of exactly the same kind and quantity.
He then killed one and connected the lower part of
its spinal cord with an electric battery. At the end, I
think, of 16 hours he killed the other. An ex-
amination of the digestive systems of the two
rabbits showed that the food that had been taken
by the rabbit killed first was almost as
well digested as the food the dther had taken.
This showed, I think beyond doubt, that elec-
tricity and nerve-force, although perhaps, as Fara-
day had said, not identical, are so nearly allied
that the present state of electrical and physio-
logical science fails to show in what they differ j
AHEM! SHAKESPEARE.
BRUTUS: What means this shouting? I do fear the people
Choose Cresar for their king.
No fear, old pal!
CASSIUS: "Tis but the harsh discordant plebeian cry
Of “Fee—Jee-B’nanas” on the Appian way!
—Julius Casar, Act I. Scene II.
Now, your worship, I think I have proved my
innocence of the crime with which I am unjustly
charged. I have shown the analogy existing
between the nervous system of the human body
and the electric mechanism of the automatic box.
What more natural than that, as electricity and
nerve-power act upon substances in a similar
manner, other forces should act upon them in a
similar manner? What more likely than that,
when, on account of the rolling of the vessel, the
stomachs of the passengers were unable to retain
their food, the motion should have so affected the
electrical mechanism of the machine as to cause it
also to discharge its contents ?”
- # # *
Having thus concluded his defence, the
Yankee with a self-satisfied air stared about
the court and at the magistrate, evidently under
the impression that that personage could not fail
to be convinced by his subtle reasoning, and would
at once order his release. But as a rule adminis-
trators of Australian law are profoundly ignorant of
scientific phenomena;'they are, moreover, not unfre-
quently egregiously stupid. The magistrate re-
turned with interest the steadfast gaze of the
accused to whose ingenious arguments he thus
replied: “Automatic machines, seasick! Hum-
bug ! You can t electrify or mesmerise me,
whichever you call it, stare as hard as you may.
Six months.”
Alas ! thus are the disciples of science ever
persecuted.
A “ combination horse-shoe nail ” is very
inappropriately advertised in a single-tacks paper.
• The Government printers in Western
Australia receive seven shillings per day of nine
hours; The “ newspapers ” there will not employ,
society tradesmen from the eastern colonies but
import their printers from Belfast and London.
The Rev. C. F. Garnsey, of Sydney, pro-
poses to put new life into the Australian Church
by “ presenting less of the subjunctive and more
of the objective side of truth.” The evidence of
erudition is perfect here, but before fighting over
which of the sides of Truth shall be presented,
Thk Huixetin would advise parties to make quite
sure that they have caught the chicken.
The present manager df the Te Aroha
(N.Z.) Silver and Gold Company gets £-1000 a year
salary.
J. B. Watson, the Victorian mining
millionaire, left £3OO a year to his wife, the in-
terest on his capital to his children, and the capital
to his grandchildren.
A certain Sydney . evening paper has just
thrown away about £5 - actually pitched it into
the gutter! They had already worked up three
columns concerning the execution df Buttner, and
then the nasty, mean, wicked Government went
and let him out of gaol. However, perhaps a good
lot of that report will keep for the next man.
A N.Z. cablegram says that “ the evidence
against a prisoner accused of the murder of Haw-
kins, a settler, near Wellington, is of a very
remarkable character and wholly circumstantial.
Pieces of newspaper, had been used by the mur-
derer as a wad, and . some .df these were found in
the wounds and carefully extracted. Small bits df
paper were also found at the scene of the murder.
All these pieces fitted precisely a torn newspaper
found in the'prisoner’s house.” There’s nothing
new under thesun. The case of Brannigan and
Murphy, recently discharged from custody in
England as innocent men, turned upon such evi-
dence at the time they wei’e convicted and sen-
tenced to death many years ago. One of tl e
prisoners was fonnd'by the police in possession ot
part of a newspaper of which the alleged other
part appeared to have been left by them at the
scene of the crime.


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & Guarantee Company \
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act , 1872.
CAPITAL .... <£500,000.
Sydney Office :
Comer of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Offices:
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
(Next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices: ... Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of
interest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months
Six ~
Twelve ~
5 per cent.
6
7
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months,
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1| per cent.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
£he (Anglo-(Australian investment,
finance & (Land gompany, <Ltd.
Capital Paid-up .. „ £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) ... 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,000
S«ad Office: - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman ; HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P.
Vice-Chairman ; F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
Loudon Office .. 31 Lombard Street, E.C-
Chairman: Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
mHIS Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
result of wise and enterprising management, has won
jts way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
£27” Deposits received in Large or Small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES
Manager.
—THE —
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies' Act, 187 U.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET
AGENCIES in London and throughout Australia
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily-
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits 3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager.
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING-, AMALGAMATING,
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OP SYDNEY.
Works; CLYDE. N.S.W.
p-ari Office: 48 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
James Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney ;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
f-old hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) op'.cs up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated >o give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
cqlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
IKIIEIBIDsPS
Patent Unbreakable Saddle
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Factory and Office—24s Castlekeagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreakable
Saddles is now carried on at our
New Premises, 245 Castlereagh St., Sydney,
where Trade Orders will receive prompt attention.
KF None Genuine without our Trade Mark.
Caution. —The Sole Right of the above Patent
having been purchased by the undersigned, Sad-
dlers and the Public generally are cautioned against
any infringements of the same.
For Keen a Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
JJivtiCtW—
F. C. Hkdkmann,
L. 0. Hendkkson,
Trustees.
Miscellaneous.
—AUSTRALIAN—
|oIIer lllour and ||rain |jtofc6,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W,
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
{near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
Le O 3XTA.RE G-wnff,
General Business St Hotel Broker,
No. 8, Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite G.P.O).
—Nothing but Straightforward Business Done.—
No Sale No Charge.
C3-WY3ST.
Miscellaneous.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 246 PITT STREET.
T>ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
JJ Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... •••• 9 per cent.
6 Mouths .... • • • • 8 per cent.
3 Months ? per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board. T ,„ T „
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
AS! GAB! GAS!
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
Join the Gas Consumer’s Protective
Association,
No. 110 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
F. W. CURNOW, Manager.
Office Hodbs : 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturday.
Holt & Winning,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTORS,
42 DOWN STREET, COLLINGWOOD,
MELBOURNE.
All kinds of Scenery made on the Shortest Notice.
Hotels.
Bourke S t
ELBOURME
-Of
TRAMS
EVERT-fEW
PASS
MINUTES
s>ftt.aes
i
2t=
F 3
PALACE HOTEL
ar'“T^Slar ,^r, T^'TaP' i IH
wsmM
vTm; ni' n
J.A.WILSON
proprietor
iC.W.CLARE
MANACift
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURSE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is—
QL^OPOai^3N=a
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three Hu.nd.redL IVtagnificeELt Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT &. COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
m* Each Eloor has, a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
pgr- T"WO ZP.A. SSE IST <3- IE IR> OTIS LIFTS.
M .
Ladles 1 Boudoir, Drawing, Smoking, and Reading Rooms.
H
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook & Son, Tourist and Oeneral Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms : Single Bedroom, 2s. 6d. per KTiglit.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
f
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, ete., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Pishing and Picnic P arties pro video.. Table
de Hole at One o’clock darily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. KILMINSTER to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the-best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMOTSTBR, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
T ONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND. ~
Acknowledged the Eest Idotel ou the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation. “
Private Suites. First Class Sample Itooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - • Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hote
TOWNSVILLE.
-I:-
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured!
The Greatest Success J
of Modern Times. \
CONSULT
/ All Chronic Diseases
\ are Curable.
MR. H. E. KUGELMANN,
CONSULTING ECLECTIC,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases.
OO WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering' from any form of disease do not fail to
ibtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[copy.]
Glenhope, 19th July, 1888.
To H. B. Kugelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating
me for five months, he honestly informed me that my case
was incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any
longer, and he advised me not to take any more chemists’
medicines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was
poison. I then pressed him for a true statement of my
case, and he very reluctantly informed me that I was
suffering from Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that
I was quite incurable. During the time I was attended
by the above doctors, I was not able to lie down in my
bed, and expectorated many quarts of blood and matter
from my lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this
time I saw your advertisement and decided to consult you,
which I did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished
me by informing me minutely of the exact nature of my
complaint without my giving you any information, and
even without year having sounded or examined me. But
my astonishment was greatly increased when you told me
that you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite
agreement, which I gladly availed myself of. After having
taken your medicines for a month I was considerably
worse; expectorating very much, and throwing up several
pieces of skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of
my hand; but after this crisis I commenced to improve
very fast. After three months treatment the expectora-
tion and cough entirely left me, and I had gained over
two stone in weight, a result which my friends considered
little short of miraculous, as all expected I would soon
die ; and from that time (thanks to your most wonderful
r kill and ability) I have not felt any return of my com-
) Jaint, and my lungs are as strong as ever they were, and
I can do as good and as hard a day’s work as I ever did.
I am sure that people diseased and suffering should avail
themselves of your treatment, and not delay as I did until
1 was given up to die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours
FRANK E. E. KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton,—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Cur*
not being Effected.
Free
Are to be found in the “liiglit and Lile, 1
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
, 1 ddress —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. F E JEt. R E,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
BEHAN’S
Black Oils or Embrocation,
FOR
SOUSES, CATTLE and DOCS.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Scars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
Unequalled as a Dressing for
Fbjmh Wounds, Sorb Backs, Girth Galls,
Broken Knees, Greasy Heels,
Sand and Quarter Crack, Itch and Mange;
and as an
Embrocation for Sprains, Curbs, Stiff Joints
and Enlargements.
Prepared Only by J + Behan k Co + *
135 Elizabeth Street, Kedferu, Sydney.
Wholesale ;
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co., S. Hoffnung
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Brisbane; E. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. EEHAN, V.S., 33 Pitt Street, Redfern.
Price - 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Sold by Chemists, Saddle: s'aud Storekeepeers.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.


Everybody says—And what everybody say* rout be trie
—that Pemell’e Snow wnnn Patent Rollkr Floor la the
beat In the market.
Medical.
«s^s
J
I
V*
%
V,
]je-c(
G
The Seven Cuticura Boys
These seven beautiful boys owe their beauty of
skin, luxuriance of hair, purity of blood, and
freedom from hereditary taint or humors of the skin
or scalp to the celebrated Cuticura Remedies.
For cleansing, purifying and beautifying the skin
of children and infants, and curing torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the
skin, scalp and blood, with loss of hair, from in-
fancy to old age, Cuticura, the great skin cure,
and Cuticura Soap, an exquisite skin beautifier,
prepared from it externally, and Cuticura Re-
solvent, the new blood purifier, internally, are
infallible. ■
Your most valuable Cuticura Remedies have
done my child so much good that I feel like saying
this for the benefit of those who arc troubled with
skin disease. My little girl was troubled with
Eczema, and I tried several doctors and medicines,
but did not do her any good until I used the Cuti-
cura Remedies, which speedily cured her, for
which I owe you many thanks and many nights of
rest. ANTON BOSSIMER, Edinburgh, Ind.
The Cuticura Remedies arc in great demand.
The Cuticura Resolvent sells better than any
other blood purifier. The Cuticura Soap is
praised by my customers, especially mothers, who
say it is the best for babies, preventing and curing
Beall head and similar diseases. •
GEORGE HOBBS, P. M., Collins, Texas.
PIM
IPLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
| oily skin prevented by Cuticuka Hoap.
Our little son will be four years of age on the
25th inst. In May, 1885, he was attacked with &
very painful breaking out of the skin. We called
in a physician, who treated him for about four
weeks. The child received little or no good from
the treatment, as the breaking out, supposed by
the physician to be hives in an aggravated form,
became larger in blotches and more and more dis-
tressing. We were frequently obliged to get uj>
in the night and rub him with soda in water,
strong liniments, etc. Finally, we called other
physicians, until no less than six had attempted to
cure him, all alike failing, and the child steadily
getting worse and worse,, until about the 20th of
last July, when we began to give him Chticura
Resolvent internally, and the Cuticuba and Cu-
ticxjra Soap externally, and by the last of August
ho was so nearly well that we gave him only one
dose of the Resolvent about every second day
for about ten days longer, and he has never been
troubled since with the horrible malady.
H. E. RYAN, Cayuga, Livingston Co., HI.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this fourth
day of January, ISS7. C. N. COE, J, P,
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticuba, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical. Co., Boston, Mass.
srg=- Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and ICO testimonials.
BABY'S
Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cuticura Soap.
Address : R. TOWNS &
CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Boots and Shoes.
sdf
FASHION,
FIX, and.
FINISH
JUDGE + FOR + YOURSELVES.
We Have in Stock
AND
Make to Order
sd
The Finest Sand Sewn
Boots and Shoes
AT PRICES
THAT
DEFY COMPETITION!
fs
A Visit will prove the above Assertions.
The Co-Operative
Boot Making Company
(Opposite David Jones and Co.),
376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER,
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, «tc.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
639 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Read. I Read I Read !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price One SBillliiK
Per post, Is. 6d. (except Queensland).
Business Announcements.
df
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE R£o.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool A Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
R. OOKTB Y and. C 0.,
SAW MILLERS.
timber Merchants & Steam Joiners,
TOWNSVILLE,
T ARGEST Stock of Qreoan Pise and Colonial Timbers,
Sashes, Doors, Ac., in Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a Speciality.
Country and Station Orders pro inptly despatched
P. C. NICHOILS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 736
HA YMAEKET.
Steam Works ;
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
T> OBERT BUTCHER & CO,
it: have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine
and Spirit Business to
592_A_ GEOBG-E STREET,
(BETWEEN BATHURST AND LIVERPOOL BTRERTS-)
WINES, SPIRITS, and BEERS,
in and out of bond.
AT LOWEST RATES.
HIBBLB & COMPANY,
—SIGN WRITERS—
AND
ART DECORATORS;
22 Castlereag-h. Street,
SYDNEY
The Story of Malachi.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Malachi was very tall, very thin, and very
round-shouldered, and the sandiness of his hair
also cried albud for an adjective. All the boys
considered Malachi the greatest ass on the station
and there was no doubt that he was a dreadful
fool. He had never been out of his native bush
in all his life, excepting once, when he paid a short
visit to Sydney, and when he returned it was evi-
dent that his nerves had received a shaking. We
failed to draw one word out of Malachi regarding
his views on the city—to describe it was not in his
power, for it had evidently been something far
beyond his comprehension. Even after his visit
had become a matter of history, if you were to
ask him what he thought of Sydney the dazed ex-
pression would come back into his face, and he
would scratch his head and say in a slow and
deliberate manner, “Well, there’s no mistake it’s
a caution.” And as such the city remained so far
as Malachi’s opinion of it was concerned.
Malachi was always shabbily dressed, in spite of
his pound a week and board, and “ When Malachi
gets a new suit of clothes ” was the expression in-
variably used by the boys to fix a date for some
altogether improbable event. We were always
having larks with Malachi, for we looked upon
him as our legitimate butt; he seldom complained,
and when he did his remonstrance hardly ever
went beyond repeating the words, “ Now, none of
your pranktical jokes !” If this had not the
desired effect and we put up some too outrageous
trick on him he would content himself by mutter-
ing with sorrowful conviction, “Well, there’s no
mistake, it’s a caution.”
We were not content with common jokes such as
sewing up the legs of Malachi’s trousers while he
slept, “ fixing ” his bunk, or putting explosives in
his pipe—we aspired to some of the higher
branches of the practical joker’s art. It was well
known that Malaohi had an undying hatred for
words of four syllables and over, and the use of
them was always sufficient to forfeit any good
opinions he might have previously entertained
concerning the user. “ I hate them high-flown
words,” he would say—“l got a book at home
that I could get them all out of if I wanted them;
but I don’t.” The book referred to was a very
dilapidated dictionary. Malachi’s hatred for
“ high-flown ” words was only equalled by his
aversion to the opposite sex ; and this being known,
we used to write letters to him in a feminine hand,
threatening divers breach of promise actions, and
composed in the “ high-flown ” language above
alluded to. We used to think this very funny, and
by these means we made his life a burden to him.
Malachi put the most implicit faith in every thing
we told him, he would take in the most improbable
yarn provided w'e preserved a grave demeanour
and used no “high-flown” expressions. He would
indeed sometimes remark that our yarns were a
“caution,” blit that was all.
We played upon him the most gigantic joke of
all during the visit of a certain bricklayer, who
came to do some work at the homestead. * ‘ Bricky ”
was a bit of a phrenologist, and knevy enough of
physiognomy and human nature to give a pretty
fair delineation of character, He also went in
for “ spirit-rapping,” greatly to the disgust of the
two ancient housekeepers who declared that
they’d have “no dalins wid him and his divil’s
worruk. ”
The bricklayer was from the first an object of
awe to Malachi, who Carefully avoided him ; but
one night we got the butt into a room where the
artisan was entertaining the boys with a seance .
After the “ table-rapping,” during which Malachi
sat with uncovered head and awe-struck expres-
sion, we proposed that he should have his “bumps”
told, and before he could make his escape Malachi
was seated in a chair in the middle of the room
and the bricklayer was running his fingers over
his head. I really believe that Malachi’s hair
bristled between the phrenologist’s fingers.
Whenever he made a hit his staunch admirer the
“ Donegal ” would exclaim : “ Look at that now !”
while the girls tittered and said, “ Just fancy !”
and from tune to time Malachi would be heard to
mutter to himself in a tone of the most intense
conviction that, “ without the least mistake, it
was a caution. ” Several times at his work tin-
next day Malachi was observed to rest on his spade
while he tilted his hat forward with one hand and
felt the back of his head as though he had not
been previously aware of its existence.
We “ ran ” Malachi to believe that the brick-
layer was mad on the subject of phrenology and
was suspected of having killed several persons in
order to obtain their skulls for experimental pur-
poses. We further said that he had been heard to
say that Malachi’s skull was a most extraordinary
one, and so we advised him to be careful.
Malachi occupied a hut some distance from the
station, and one night, the last night of the brick-
layer’s stay, as Malachi sat smoking over the fire
the door opened quietly and the phrenologist en-
tered. He carried a bag with a pumpkin in the
bottom of it, and, sitting down on a stool, he let
the bag down with a bump on the floor between
his feet. Malachi was badly scared, but he
managed to stammer out—
“ ’Elio !”
“ ’Elio !” said the phrenologist.
There was an embarrassing silence, which was at
last broken by “ Bricky ” saying : “ How are you
gettiu’ on, Malachi ?”
“Oh, jist right,” replied Malachi.
Nothing was said for a while, until Malachi,
after fidgetting a good deal on his stool, asked the
bricklayer when he was to leave the station.
“Oh, I’m going away in the morning early,”
said he. “ I’ve jist been over to Jimmy Nowlett’s
oamp, and as I was passing I thought I’d call and
get your head.”
“ Wot?”
“ I come for your skull. ”
“Yes,” the phrenologist continued, while Mala-
chi sat horror-stricken ; “ I got Jimmy Nowlett’s
skull here,” and he lifted the bag and lovingly
felt the pumpkin—it must have weighed forty
pounds. “I spoilt one of his best bumps with
the tomahawk. I had to hit him twice, but it’s
no use crying over spilt milk. ” Here he drew a
heavy smnglmg-hammer out of the bag and wiped
off with his sleeve something that looked like
blood. Malachi had been edging round for the
door, and now he made a rush for it. But the
skull-fancier was there before him.
. “Gor-sake you don’t want to murder me?”
gasped Malachi.
“Not if I can get your skull any other way,’
said “ Bricky.”
“Oh ! ” gasped poor Malaohi—and then, with a
vague idea that it was best to humour a lunatic,
he continued, in a tone meant to be off-hand and
careless—“ Now, look here, if yer only waits till I
die you can have my whole skelington and wel-
come.”
“ Now, Malachi,” said the phrenologist sternly,
“dy’e think I’m a fool ? I ain’t goin’ to stand any
humbug. If yer acts sensible you’ll be quiet, and
it’ll soon be oyer, but if yer ”
Maladhi did not wait to hear the rest. He
made a spring for the back of the hut and through
it, taking down a large new sheet of stringy-bark
in his night. Then he could be heard loudly
ejaculating “It’s a caution !’’ as he went through
the bush like a startled kangaroo, and he didn’t
stop till he reached the station.
Jimmy Nowlett and I had been peeping through
a crack in the same sheet of bark that Malachi
dislodged ; it fell on us and bruised us somewhat,
but it wasn’t enough to knock the fun out of the
thing.
When Jimmy Nowlett crawled out from under
the bark he had to lay down on Malachi’s bunk to
laugh, and even for some time afterwards it was
not unusual for Jimmy to wake up in the night
and laugh till we wished him,dead.
I’d like to finish here, but there remains some-
thing more to be said about Malachi.
* * #
One of the best cows at the homestead
had a calf, about which she made a great
deal of fuss. She was ordinarily a quiet,
docile creature, and although somewhat fussy
after calving no one ever dreamed that she
would injure anyone. It happened one day that
the squatter’s daughter and her intended husband,
a Sydney exquisite, were strolling in a paddock
where the cow was. Whether the cow objected to
the masher or his lady love’s red parasol, or
whether she suspected designs upon her progeny is
not certain ; anyhow, she “ went for ” them. The
{roung man saw the cow coming first, and he gal-
antly struck a .bee-line for the fence, leaving the
girl to manage for herself. She wouldn’t have
managed very well if Malachi hadn’t been passing
just then. He saw the girl’s danger and ran to
intercept the cow with no weapon but his hands.
It didn’t last long. There was a roar, a rush,
and a cloud of dust, out of which the cow pre-
sently emerged, and went scampering back to the
bush in which her calf was hidden.
We carried Malachi home and laid him on a
bed. He had a terrible wound in the groin, and
the blood soaked through the bandages like water.
We did all that was possible for him, the boys
killed the squatter’s best horse and spoilt two
others riding for a doctor, but it was of no use.
In the last half-hour of his life we all gathered
round Malachi’s bed he was only 22. Once he
said:
“ I wonder how mother’ll manage now?”
“Why, where’s your mother?” some one asked
gently; we had never dreamt that Malachi might
have some one to love him and be proud of him.
“In Bathurst,” he answered wearily —“she’ll
take on awful, T’spect she was awful fond of me
—we’ve been pullin’together this last ten years—
mother and me —we wanted to make it all right
for my little brother Jim poor Jim !”
“What’s wrong with Jim?” someone asked.
“ Oh, he’s blind,” said Malachi —“always was—
we wanted to make it all right for him agin time
he grows up—l—l managed to send home about—
about forty pounds a year—we bought a bit of
ground, and—and—l think —I’m going now.
Tell ’em Harry-tell ’em how it was .”
I had to go outside then. I couldn’t stand it
anj> more. There was a lump in my throat and
I’d have given anything to wipe out my share in
the practical jokes, but it was too late now.
Malachi was dead when I went in again, and
that night the hat went round with the squatter’s
cheque in the bottom of it and we made it “al-
right ” for Malachi’s blind brother Jim.
HENRY LAWSON.
The New Baby.
Tind friends, I pray extuse me
From matin’ any speech,
Betause I is so ’ittle
I ain't dot much lor each ;
There ain’t much edutation
In such a ’ittle head ;
Besides, I is so seepy
And wants to do to bed.
But when it turns my bed-time
My mamma leaves a light
To teep off all ze booboos
Zat visit in ze night.
My mamma alius worries
For fear I’ll dit a cough,
And ties down all ze bedioso
Betause I ticks ’em off.
She says I’m just as we-tless,
And dranpa’s tesnut nag
And if I don’t seep quiet
She’ll tie me in a bag !
She’s found anozzer baby
Cat’s noisier zan I,
Betause it don’t do noffin’
But stay in bed and cwy.
Ma found it in ze garret
Where dranpa teeps dried beef j
It’s such a funny tolour,
And ain’t dot any teef,
And ain’t dot any eyebrows,
And ain’t dot any hair ;
In fact, it ain’t dot noffin’,
Nor any shoes to wear.
I tole in tuzzer mornin*—
’Twas seepin’ wiz my ma—
To ask it what its name was,
It only answered “ ye-ah ! ”
’Tis all wrapped up in flannel
And tovered head and ears,
And always cwys for noffin’,
But ain’t dot any tears !
My dwacious, ain’t it homely !
It looks just like my pug.
My pa says when its cwyin'
It makes an ugly mug.
I thought, of tourse, ’twas hungry,
And dave it citron cake,
It cwyed zen more zan ever —
I dess ’twas stomit-ache.
Ma tails it “Tootsy-Wootsy,”
And papa tails it “ Nigger ”;
But Uncle Joe won’t touch it,
He says, until it’s bigger.
I squeezed its ’ittle stomit
To see if it tould talk—
It ain’t no better’n dolly,
For all it did was squawk.
No, I don’t like new babies,
Neizer does Uncle Joe ;
He said’twould take till Trismaa
Before ze cub would grow.
But if it is my brozzer,
As I heard mamma say.
Until she finds anozzer
I’ll teep it anyway.
S.F. NEWSLETTER.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
EUREKA
\s
Iv
\
A NEVER FAILING CURB FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
Without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp fax
postage.
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Stdnxt.
“Life Preservation,”
—BY —
Dr. J. D. LLEWLELLYN,
SPECIALIST,
W LONSDALE ST., EAST, MELBOURNE.
THIS Work is a Medical Treatise describing
accurately, faithfully and concisely the
Functional Disorders and Diseases arising from
excesses, indiscretions, and other enervating
influences with their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men, with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
Information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
PRICE per mail, 3s. 6d. (any Colonial stamps).
To be had of all Booksellers, or the Otto Publish-
ing Go., 4 A’Beokett Street West, Melbourne.
rjlO SUFFERERS.
Consult personally or by Letter
Dr. ANDERSON
(LATE COWAN AND ANDERSON.)
—SPECIALISTS ON —
Chronic Nervous Debility,
SKIN CONTAGIONS,
And all Diseases of the Benito-Urinary Organs.
Consultation Free.
Absolute Seer toy Observed in all Cates.
N.B. —Medicines forwarded, securely packed, to
all parts of the Colonies.
Note:
DR. ANDERSON,
165 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
A and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ftrial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
.. XI V The Public are requested to notice the
Vm U. UlUil ! words, jgg'- Rose s Celebrated Eye
Lotion,' with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Bs. Gd.
KIT Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTH AN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
ERYOXJS DEBILITY.
Consult by Letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addressed 4d. stamped envelope, forward advice
and his Medical Book Frke. Address—
Herr RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, Q.P.0., Sydney, N.&W.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, 'disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
rer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No_ female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the KOSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbecham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
fOLEMANEaSOHS
Eucalyptl Oil
■tu
Victory Ointment^
THE TREE OF LIFE.
mt
The only pure Eucalypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamondra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
JUST PUBLISHED
A most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains information most valuable in Ner-
vous and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rules
are worth its weight in gold. Send your full
address, and we will send Post Free One Copy,
given away for the next Six Months Only. Write
to Professor R. T. SELBY Cleveland Street,
Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
CONSULT TJ
CORE & MOGG
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases <JT the Gen Ito-Url nary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
I, CORBETTS BUILDWOS, comer of Georg*
and Elizabeth Btree is, Brisbane.
OOI.BULTATIONB FREE. PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
SPECIAL NOTICE.- The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will bo on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street. Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements
«20 BUCKBOAED BUGGIES £2O
BEST TV THE WORLD
for £3O.
sdf
Tie largest t'oacli-
Works in Australia.
No. 45—Turnout Seat—£3s.
COPE <3c NEWMAN,
BOGGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 63 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
lands.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
8.8. H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address : 53 SYDNEY ARCADE.
" For Framing a Picture Neat and Well”
• - x• X *
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George Street (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in ihe Colonies. Photos., Engravings',
&c„ carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges-.
pecial attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
S?7?dc/h/
I:
MANUFACTURERS
I IMPORTERS OF
i Udk4
HATS CAPSfc
*438 CEORCE^S T
3VDNEY 1
tf/opoaiti La*3ttCers
/>
A
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
LE i SO//$ i
MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
SYDN EY-
IMPORTERS OF AIITHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
sdf
fl>
THE BEST
IN THE WQRLO
MANUFACTURED BV
JjMCS CHAHNOfr J/arievrS*'
k man
k
iSoltL Ov all SaoCjVuA A S/oreAttfirro
£
if
Business Announcements.
I. ..
Guiimess’ Extra Stout,
rIE S T Q U ALT TY.
jiAv.itilljj>
M
Mfiu
ufldfl
HBHna
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents :
BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CO.,
SYDNEY.
ASK FOR KUPPER’S elberfeld
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
W.A.IILTIEIR, HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
f|IHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
i Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund... 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &o
Cooperage :
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
Hotels.
rfLh
M 5
SSWoes;
OWOENSJItoiVpT^
HOIU
■ ■■;?.
■ -<
I'.*' .' ' • '
BOWDSUf’S HOTE]
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C. BO »»EN Proprietor.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street, East,
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.
EXCELSIOR HIOTIEL,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
SECOND BRICK HOTEL BUILDING erec-
ted in above Town, situated corner of Gill
and Church Streets.
W. M. Gough - Proprietor.
WESTERKT HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied, it®’ Good Shooting in the. immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
livery and Letting Stable*.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE v
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to tils.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
x
tssr Porpoise Hide wears twice as long' as
any other leather.
x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MASON BROTHERS,
sdf
sdf
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STEEET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Salk to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL, HARDWARE
Class, China ami
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND gkneral
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN'S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
L MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. R, ZiARKIN.
IMPORTER OF
WIHES, x SPIRITS, x IB IE IE IK, S 7 x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Roe's and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hknnessy’b, Martbll’S and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.Ii.L.
[par- The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
s£fiolesale anti Single Bottle Departments, 282, anil 28P Qcortge-st., syilney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRSTmCLASS LADIES 1 REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
,) x {
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY,
Now Supply the GENERAL PUBLIC as Well as the Trade.
,
wallachSiotiiers.
MAGIC MEAL
FOB FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials ;
Report by Charles Wait, Esq., Late Government
Analyst :
“I have tested a sample of the ‘Magic Meal’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenic and have
to report, aftea a most careful examination, that I, have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon :—“ I
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 3s. ; 141 b. ss. 6d. ; 561 b., 18s.
6d. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0,
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
31 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSE.I, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address : “ Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
Genuine Swedish made
CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C. A. PALSTEDT,
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. ISr” Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spuripus.
tw lUSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
„ AT THK
Wertheim Sewing Machine Depots
in
VICTORIA.
MELBOURNE
r Head Office ; 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swans ton Street.
-I New Coffee Palace, Bourke Street.
L 69 Swans ton Street, opposite Town Hall.
sdf
ii
ism
wL
'
I
ow
1L
m
FoK
AIR.
ROWLANDS’
IVIACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and pr duces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
A pure, non-grittt Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, I air and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE^w.
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS'
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting, &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
Australian RuDtoer Works,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOHES
WALTHAM
AMERICAN
.
• #
aJ
s** <&
»Pi w Z^%
•a HDsla
BZ is
Zhir^
Tb.e Beat Timekeepers in the World. !
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
iable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “Logan’s Patent Brcguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other wati hes
in the world can be obtained with “Logan’s ” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the’exolusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S.A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructivi genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
83SDMB
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltnam Buildings, Bond Street, Sydney.
