

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
ì
Eest Timekeepers in the World.
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed,
against the COMBINED MAKERS OF THE WORLD.
The AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES are constructed upon the soundest principle of horoiogical art
and of the very best materials throughout ; they arc adapted to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
EVERY WALTHAM WATCH is fitted with “ Logan’s ” Patent Breguet Hair-Spring, hardened and tempered in form.
This prevents coiling’ of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. ISO other
watches in the world can bo obtained with “Logan's" Celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive
property of the American Waltham Watch Co. . '
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in any part
of the world where Waltham Watches are sold as effectual!v as at the Factory in \\ alt-ham, Mass., H.S.A.
WALTHAM CHRONOGR APHS, infallible for accuracy of timing, register Loth of second, start, stop, fly-back.
WALTHAM PRESENTATION WATCHES, Unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
WALTHAM RAILWAY WATCHES are used upon the New South Wales Government Railways and all other Cu.omal
Lines, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
WALTHAM WATCHES. Dust-proo p , Water-proof.
WALTHAM NON-MAGNRTIO WATCHFS.—Proof against Magnetic and Electrical infltw nee-. The latest discovery
in Horoiogical Science. Awarded GOLD MED AL, Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1888-9
WALTHAM WATCHES are Sold by all Watchmakers and Jewellers throughout the World.
SIZE
de
fS*
,lis#
tPm;
AMERICAN
Messrs.
WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
SOLE A (LENTS FOB AUSTRALASIA.
R OBE K. T BEESTON SEUaca. C 0.,
WALTHAM BUILDINGS, BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
rrq[j.] COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
, , , . -Fs »ir* ontine and Mortuary X3>iviclenci SYSTEMS.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, xviociifi . .
BONUS YEAR.— Books will be closed on 31st December, 1889. and the Quinquennial 1 nvestigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of Bonus.
Federateti Squatters
- AND-
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIECTJLAE QUAY, SYDITEY-
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AG-ENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
i i
Engineers, '<3ofp.bksmit.iis, Kbass and Bell Founders,
Finlaheirs, Blumlters, Ship & General Smiths,
Gaskitckus, Art & Mudjjova l Metal Workers
ICOLI.KIt SKATES (any make) with KKVSS «r AVOODE.V TV HEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yiicht and J oat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie' Place, Sydney.
See your Dress as others see it.
m
6:
2k
3
LL
“ This is something awful, I declare. I
shall never again attempt to drape, a dress
without Eastway Bbos.’ Dhkss Form.”
-C:
A
iii rf>!
P-
£Xh ;l
jj^as 3 #
ti Now <7ia< is perfectly splendid. Thinlc oj
beiny able to drape one's own drie,ss, arid not
have to stand and wear one's self out before a
mirror, as was the case before we purchased
this Eastway Bros.’ Dress Form.”
411
EASTWAY BROS.,
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
CET Oyy \
r•>
W.
-2?
'/SS
1
*/
fZ
'sZ*
m
%
*y
m
ik
L & S
77,
'y&
'A
(■//
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 KENT STREET (Two Doors from Market Street), SYDNEY,
—IMPORT—
HIG H-O L -A- 3 3 I IST D I A ZET & CHINA
TEAS
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, -and delivered at Is. 6d., Is. 9ct. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
[Saturday, November 30, 1889.


M
i ii
lliiwi
m
i nr.
~ r-'.
K.T,
•:!
yin
KKi
Ii
■’■V
Mi:
g j'T-Tn;
i' ■ ■
am
ueu
Si
Hi
a r?
&
I
i
í
S/
ex.
h
z
*
DiXSOM'S
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in Kurland
ami is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Mvery Storekeeper should get. a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
SATIN
XADICS
pHittßßEfiEai
rßuNKsir^cac)
I
/JJ/l
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—I'OK —
LADIES' AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phi 1n.., IS7G
Berlin, 1877
Paris, JB7S
Mel bourne, ISSO
Frankfort, 1881
Ainstem’m 1883
Nev. - Orleans, 13SI-S.">, and wherevi
exhibited.
Paris medal on every hotllc.
Beware of Imitations,
I'liis Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to t he cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
an\ one without soiling the fingers. Ko polishing brush
is required. It dries iiniuediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
SI Clarence St., Wynyaril Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M'f'gs.
II I T T E N B E KG & C O.
IB PORTE IIS,
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for Us natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of nil Dealers ami of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White ltcse"on '(.olden
Lyre,” with Address in lull.
T. LAWLESS, June
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit Morchant.
WILLIAMS*
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
: J.
Breajd., Tea Cakes, &o.,
ARE
Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN WADE WITH
Williams’ Australian ‘Yeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound.
LEA &P E R RIN S’ SAU C
AUC
•*k rtlW
of limitations % o/ x WORCESTERSHIRE
SAffCEkwhtch an'^alcula ted^fodecetve^i/u Public, Leaand Perrins
havt to request that Purchaser* toe (hat (}u r <Labeljontvtry .belli*
btan'Jheirlgignature: (hus~~*
mtJvuL whithin* 0/ the, original) WOJfCJSST£RS&/X£
SAUCE is genuine^
[AshforLEA arid PERRINS' Sauce,-and see Name-on Wrapper, Label, Bottle end
Wholesale and for Export \by (ht\fropnttors, Worcester Cross*, end
BlackxheU, London, (r'c., 6re.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the Wofld.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
o «
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE'
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLEOJINS OR PACKETS JHROUGHOIIT.TtIE COLONY.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rcchcrchc
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
hero also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
dc JHote at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No cxnense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstku to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mira. KILMiINrSTJti-trt, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
68 Huntor Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
F. SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horsed and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men's 1 lacks.
JOHN BUCKHAM,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon Covers
(greaseet or oiled), Canvas Water Mottles, Coolers, Whim
buckets, Horse Mugs, Nose Mags, Oiled lx>in Cloths. Send
to or call at
4-49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
THOMAS MCREERY:
J'EDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Disease* of Doth Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solioitkd.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
. a' M' ->» S£a,
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR,
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending 1
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Yeals, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator,
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
X-lEIMOiIXr
SQUEEZERS, &0.,
&C.
McLean Bros. <2s Eigg, XASL
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No. 511.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1889.
Price, 6d.
9k n ... \\ f r
I \Wour)« Iy* ci n i
'J >Co ' 7&t cfer \r tui< 'I well
(/Suited to c\\«L|oijr)o country
/ i-r \/• . \) J - ~<§) /
11 J i Ksje Victoria -
GOVERNOR HOPETOUN.


IST otice -to Agents.
With the SPECIAL CHRISTMAS NUMBER
of
“THE BULLETIN”
(To he Published on 19th December)
Will be given Gratis a Magnificent and Artistic
Supplement, entitled
“ON THE MASH”
(An Australian Idyll),
By LIVINGSTON HOPKINS.
PRINTED IN SIX COLOURS.
THE Christmas Issue will be more than
Double the Usual Size, and will contain
Original Contributions from the pens of some of
the leading litterateurs of Australasia ;
Victor J. Daley,
E. Dyson,
E. Fisher,
“The Banjo,”
“E. Lowe,”
W. H. Traill,
F. J. Broomfield.
Jas. Marsh,
Ai-thur Gayll,
Henry Lawson,
ami Others,
And will be profusely Illustrated by
L. HOPKINS, PHIL MAY,
a. R. ASHTON, R. ATKINSON,
H. Egersdorfer, J. H. Hunt,
And other high-class Artists.
This really absolutely Original and Interesting
Number will bo published at the usual prioe,
viz.,
-SIXPENCE!-
The literary matter will, like the illustrations,
be absolutely original; it will comprise the most
fascinating collection of prose and verse ever sub-
mitted in a single issue of any paj>er beneath the
Southern Cross.
Judging from the experience of former occasions,
on which it has been impossible to satisfy the enor-
mous demand for Thk Bulletin’s Christmas
Number, it is imperative on Agents to send in
their orders for extra numbers without delay.
Owing to the great expense incurred in the pro-
duction of this superb Christmas Number, it will
be IMPOSSIBLE TO ALLOW RETURNS.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-strbet, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £,lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOW words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications trill be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” trill return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Potind Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1889.
The Republic-Not the Dominion.
In the words of Governor Carington,
“ Federation is in the air.” The labouring
mountain has brought forth its mouse.
Parkes, G.C.M.G., has added another
dream to the sentimental abortions which
have characterised the fast-growing im-
becility of his old age. The author of
“ Murmurs of the Stream ” and the “ Beau-
teous Terrorist,’’ the bard of froggie-doggie-
loggie fame, the architect of an illusory State
Deadhouse, the concoctor of an attempted
burglary of Australia’s name-right, has
evolved the conception of a Federal scheme
—(which is based on the departmental re-
port of an Imperial military-man) and,
true to his usual method, he has" copied a
ready-made system and takes credit to him-
self for fashioning a Dominion on the model
of that of Canada. Sir Henry’s proposals
can serve only one useful purpose—they will
accustom the people of Australia to regard
seriously the necessity of union—they will
help to sweep aside the miserable parochial-
ism into which colonial Government has a
tendency to stagnate. Tile proposals them-
selves are weak, ineffective, and altogether
temporary. Canada, upon the Government
of which they are patterned, is on the eve of
making her choice between one of two
courses equally antagonistic to the continuity
of that great British Empire upon which the
sun never rises—within a Very few years,
Canada will be either an independent re-
public or an integral part of the United
States of America. We of Australia have
an ambition to become a great nation. We
yearn for an individual existence. We
desire to take our place among the countries
of the earth. Parkes offers us a dependent
provincial future ; in place of a mighty
southern power he would have us a mere
appanage of the British Empire ; he would
bind Australia like a captive in the chained
train that follows England’s chariot-wheels
and graces the triumph of her greed.
*. # #
It is now easy to see that the colonies
as they are at present constituted can
never federate. Each State in the Aus-
tralian group is too large, its interests
too concentrated, its vanity too greatly
fomented by designing political tricksters,
its fiscal policy too separate ever to feel
the need of Federation. A romantic army
scheme is not enough to break all these
objections down. We must divide ere we
coalesce. Two hundred States will do
readily enough what six or seven independent
States will never do. Then, too, the whole
of Parkes’ scheme rests upon something
which should follmv the thing he desires to
bring about. The nation should not be
formed to accommodate the exigencies of an
Imperial report-recommended army of a
Federal brand. The army—when it comes
—must grow out of the exigencies of the
nation. It sounds like ordering an artist to
paint a picture to fit a frame rather than
making a frame to tit a picture already
existent and well worthy of preservation.
Besides a Dominion achieved to-day, based
on a false estimate of Australian demands
and Australian aspirations, must delay for
many years—mayhap, many decades—the
advent of that mighty Australian Republic
whose ideal already exists in every true
Australian heart.
* * *
Lord Hopetoun, prior to his departure
from England, said in a speech delivered at
a farewell banquet:—
It would be a terribly disastrous day for England if any
idea of separation should take its origin in the mind of
British statesmen.
It will be a much more “terribly disastrous
day for England ” if the idea of separation
should take its origin in the mind of the
Australian people themselves—and this, too,
is coming ! We have had long enough and
time to spare, the connection which has been
hitherto only a disgrace and an expense to
us. We owe the original settlement of our
country to the need of England for a cess-
pool. To this very day the word “ colonial”
is a term of reproach, a by-word, an insult.
Every speech made by a titled boy, sent out
to patronise us, is a gratuitous impertinence.
We are kindly told, twelve times a day, and
oftener, that we are not altogether fiends,
nor is our place of habitation nearly so bad
as Hell. They Hock here to spoil us,
nevertheless children wearing coronets
followed by suites of fiunkeys ; common-
place, over-paid bishops who owe their pre-
ferment in the church to their willingness
to govern episcopally the descendants of
convicts ; lecturers who affront our intelli-
gence with lies lacking even the questionable
merit of originality or artistic probability ;
singers who have left their voices rusting with
a bygone age ; actors whose reputations are
moss-grown and mildewed and whose names
are no longer powerful to conjure with in
England’s realm ; speculators who batten in
Lombard-street on properties situate in our
own land from which no Australian derives
so much as a living ; and every year the
crowd of foreign adventurers grows denser.
To the low-bred, base-souled, purse-proud
Englishman who came out years ago a
pauper, a mud-groveller, a dirt-eater/ who
lias amassed wealth in this country, who has
since gone homo to buy a title, and to marry
his children into the aristocratic houses of
English pork-butchers and cheese-mongers,
ennobled a generation ago, or to marry them
to the descendants of the pom 1 and needy
albeit blue-blooded adventurers who came
over to England many centuries since with
Jeremy Drooler ; to this gaudy, vulgar,,
white-washed creature who flashes his gold
in the eyes of armorial-bearing starvelings,
who advertises himself in charity-lists, and
who insults us so grossly every time he calls
himself an Australian that only the shedding
of his sluggish blood can wash the insult out;
to him it is we are indebted, him must we
thank for the constant stream of sharks,
pirates, bishops, titled people, and untitled
speculators that has set in upon our shores*
This, too, is the creature whom it is en-
deavoured to placate by Rosebery's pro-
posals to establish a colonial contingent of
peers. How Australia’s native-born satirist
must writhe in Iris grave thereat! How he
would, with scathing satire and savage sar-
casm, lash the Aubrey Murrays, the Went-
worths, and other would-be aspirants to an
Australian peerage of these latter days !
* « *
The Queen of England has a large family !
Each royal birth and each royal marriage has
been made an occasion of spoliation. The
people of England begin to breathe thick
and to stifle beneath the choking pressure
of the regal spawn. Royalty is nigh in
despair ! “Ah ! the colonies, the colonies!”
’Tis here they find, these thickly-growing
parasites of princely blood, a place of hope
and refuge, It is amusing to hear the
hundred patronising things said of these
Bneered-at colonies. England, the royal
Guelphic hot-bed, cannot exist without the
colonies. No wonder Conser* atism and re-
trogression cluster about the precincts of the
Colonial Office and gather around thebanquet-
ing-boards for the purpose of reassuring the
“colonial” people, who flock to London
mainly to feed and grovel, that the “colonies
are not properly understood, you know, and
all that sort of thing.” England’s royalty,
aristocracy, empire, exist by virtue of Eng-
land’s colonial possessions ; without them
she would be a fourth-rate poAver to-morrow.
Subtract from England the Dominion of
Canada, the Indian Empire, Australia, New
Zealand, the English settlements at the Cape
and in the islands of ihe Pacific, and Little
Britain shrinks up to an “atomy,” with none
so poor to do her reverence. What sort of a
figure would England cut, so feather-stript, at
the Council-boards of Europe ? What would
her voice be worth when Germany or Russia
spake? Let the colonies slip ! Never, while
British chicanery and British flattery, British
bribery and British dissimulation can retain
them. 1
* * *
Australian governorships will within a
short time be morsels reserved for a
prince’s trencher. We began humbly enough
with a post-captain. As Ave grew in
wealth we clambered up in our “ mother’s ”
estimation, until to-day naught but a peer is
fit to govern us. His Royal Highness is not
far ofl ! “The eagles gather where the
carcass is.” Not one man of them would
come to our shores out of love for us. It is
our “ groAving importance,” our wealth, our
simpleness that attracts them. We are rich,
and we are raAv —a rank crop ready for the
reaping. We live in a land Avhich is said to
riot in all the fat and fruit of tropic luxury,
and so our alleged ancestral cousins come
hither to spoil us. Sometimes they return
with weird faery-tales—(an’ they be bishops)
—of the viciousness of our meat-eating, and
the plenteousness of the flesh of sheep and
oxen in our wicked, carnivorous and butcher-
smitten land. England regards Australia
very much as the cannibal Oarib regarded
the prisoner about whose fattening possi-
bilities there remained a doubt. When avo
were of no account, before the poten-
tialities of England’s colonial possessions
had loomed on the Imperial and Con-
servative mind, we might go hang. Our
“ growing importance ” and other peculiari-
ties, usually designated by Tory after-dinner
platitudes, caused them to weigh their
thought anew. Now avo are valuable. We
shall to England be increasingly valuable all
the Avhile Ave continue to grow and give an
earnest of a luscious Carib feast. Let us
become a bother, a responsibility instead of
a prey—and judge of England’s attitude in
the future by her attitude to, say Ireland, at
the present time. Christie Murray, and
other Avell-meaning and well-fed optimists of
more or less Saxon origin, talk much genial.
drivel about blood being thicker than Avater,
and the race instinct being stronger than our
local patriotism. If the race instinct is
really a factor, then return every man into
his tent, for the British Empire contains a
greater number of foreign elements than any
other that everexisted, Rome alone excepted.
There is only one genuinely strong passion
in the breast of tire Englishman—the love of
money. This has made the Empire the vast
agglomerate of heterogeneous remnants that
it is. Racial instinct ! —racial fudge !
Nations are Avarred against and ultimately
incorporated—provided they bo ignorant
and savage enough to lie easily conquered -
in the interests of British trade, for the sake
of the British ledger-worshipper, for the
security of the British Shylock.
• * #
W'e had need be cautious in our dealings
with England. Ireland once had a Parlia-
ment of her own as wo have noAv, and Irish-
men sold their country to England for
English bribes. The process is working
hero already. We have begun with
“ C.M.G. ’-decorations for social worms : we
are promised peerages of Rosebery manu-
facture for the Australian nabob—the social
cayman. Representation in the English Par-
liaments of a federated Australian Dominion
would be a greater farce by far than the
representation of Ireland in the present
Government of the United Kingdom. Sup-
pose, with the growth of our democracy, the
time may come when we shall reject the
regal-blooded Governor sent out to lord it
over us—the days of the dragonnades are
not impossible beneath the Southern Cross.
Canada not long ago had her patriot Repub-
lican martyr in Louis Riel, whom the Im-
perialists sent to die the death of a dog.
England’s smiles are upon Eng-
land’s interests; Warren Hastings and
Robert Clive were only scapegoats for
British villainy—at the root of which
lay the cursed lust of gold. Think not
that the brutal greed of the British govern-
ing classes Inns ceased to be the leading
characteristic of the nation. It exists to-day
as it always did, only it is now less alloyed
with ideal notions of honour or of glory.
The British connection is, and must ever be,
to every nation that suffers it, the permis-
sion, and the acknowledgment of the right,
of British exploitation.
# * # ■:
Died in Melbourne not long since a man.
There have been very few such manly men
amongst us, Peter Labor was one of those
Whose name makes pale all the titles of all
the traitors who have sold Australia for
something less than a mess of pottage. In
the fifties, met in Victoria a number of
miners with a Republican constitution drawn
up, a flag designed, a system of government
perfected in theory. The day' will come
when we will search out and treasure up the
names of these men —but first we must our-
selves be worthy of the birthright of the
free. We must eschew all the miserable
gew-gaws, the decorations, the titles, the
paltry bits of metal and snatches of alphabets
with which we at present tickle our small
souls. We must cease to grovel at the feet
of gubernatorial individuals with our wives !
We must take no pleasure in reading the
spineless slobber, the limpet-like drivel that
imbeciles maunder at colonial institutes. We
must joy not in after-dinner speeches de-
livered by children whose only marks of
differentiation from the great ruck of other
children, are a suite of three hundred
flunkeys and the wearing on their baby-brows
the rounds and tops of sovereignty. We
must be to our children what the men from
all lands, the diggers of the fifties are to us —
a pattern and a model of courage and inde-
pendence, exemplars to all true men who
may come after us, to all who love honour
more than they fear death, to all who would
rather bo free in Hell than enslaved in
Heaven, to all who would rather bend the
head to a monarch’s curse than bend the
knee for a serf’s badge of knighthood.
* * *
Does tend to freedom?
No ! a thousand times no ! No sooner would
it be an accomplished fact than some Batten-
bkr<; person, some royal duke, some German
cousin, hungering in the background for
some crumbs that might fall from a Guelplnc
table, would be appointed federal Governor
to guard and conserve the sacred cause of
loyalty in the South. No ! Rather than
that we would have things remain for ever
as they are.
# * #
If you would know what the English
think of you, Australians! read, not re-
cently- appointed Governors’ after-dinner
speeches, but the English journals ! Read
them, too, in reference to Western Aus-
tralia. Here is the gist of the English
journalistic utterance;—“How dare you
dictate to us? Western Australia is
our G on-appointed sewer into which we
may shoot our paupers, just as Botany
Bay was the ancient cesspool for our convict
refuse.” To which we answer, “No!” We
will not so solve England’s pauper problem
for her ! We will help with our money the
poor of England, the down-trodden masses,
to fight Capital and Caste to the death—but
onjdieir own ground. We will not allow
England to bring to these shores her
-troubles, her poverty, her misery, her
hideous competition, and her brutal greed,
her wars and her rumours of wars, her com-
promises with honour for the sake of trade,
her jim-crack titles and her childish class
distinctions, her ribbons, her gew-gaws, her
established church and her social cant.
* * *
Let Australians take a lesson from the past!
Rome, once a greater colonising power than
England can ever hope to be, fell at length
upon evil days—and her colonies were bled
of treasure and of men to protect the central
seat of government. When it suited, a
colony was relinquished, the Roman legions
were withdrawn,* and the people, who had
been taught to look to the world’s mistress
for protection, became an easy prey to her
enemies. That experience may one day be
ours. Governor Hopetoun, at the banquet-
speech from which wo have quoted, made
this observation :
It is only by a judicious system of mutual confidence
) hat we can hope to sec the threat Empire, with its vast
interests, grow strong and united, to the undoubted ad-
vantage of Great Brition, the colonies, and the civilised
world at large.
We all know the sort of advantage that ac-
crues to the “civilised world at largo ” by
virtue of the greatness of Great Britain,
especially when ports are to be forced open,
when a Pagan nation has to be poisoned
with opium for the profit of Christians,
when tribute has to be wrested from the


down-trodden Egyptian for the enrichment
of the British bondholder, when coloured
labour is required to develope the Northern
sugar-fields owned, many of them, by
Englishmen who disburse the product of
tawny sweat in the capital of the empire ;
we know how fanatic Gordon can battle
with fanatic Mahdi for the love of God, to
tire grievous hurt of thousands of poor black
patriots who never looked upon a Bible and
who never heard of the “secret of England’s
greatness.” Taking then the “undoubted
advantage ” to the colonies, as only one
degree more undoubted than that meted out
by Great Britain’s empire of pretence and
drivel to the “civilised world at large,” we
may assume that the only people who are at
all likely to profit by the “judicious system
of mutual confidence” are the titled flunkeys
and lords of the bed-chamber, who from
time to time receive tokens of gratitude
from their empire-mother by being appointed
to fat sinecures as colonial governors. Lord
Rosebery promises us quid pro quo. For
our kindness in taking from an over-weighted
nation a lord or so to rule over us at a
princely salary, we are to be allowed the
privilege of a colonial lordling, a squatter
white-rod-in-waiting, a retired brewer as
equerry to one of the Princes of Wales.
Honours loom thick in our fore-front.
■* * #
America is claimed to-day, by lecturers of
the Christie Murray type, as a brother
nation, one in kindred and kin-heartedness,
in thought and in tongue, with England ;
yet America earned her rights at the sword’s
point, and retains them by virtue of her
power to use the sword again if need be.
We, too, must learn to use the sword, but only
to protect our existence as a nation. To adopt
the federal scheme of Parkes is to become
a mere provincial appanage of the Empire
simply to enable us to use the sword in
accordance with the recommendations of an
Imperial officer. Let the Republic come,
and we shall find both heart enough and
hands to spai'e to protect it. Our duty now
is to present a square and solid block to
England’s programme of peers and paupers,
her ready-made system of caste government
in the interests of and by the moneyed and
the titled few. We must save Australia
from becoming a big benevolent asylum for
royal and serene parasites. We must keep
our future, pregnant with the potentialities
of fate, for our children. We have shut
our ports to England’s Chinese allies, we
must keep our land from England’s specula-
tive exploiters. We have as yet no ter-
rible labour troubles, but we have universal
suffrage, we have the ballot, we shall, in two or
three years, have “One Man One Vote,”
we have free schools, and we have also a
\ ast deal of what we do not want; but we do
lack a peerage, we do lack a State church, we
have no costly navy, no standing army ; our
civil service is not a refuge for the younger
sons of the great! We want no old-world
wars and complications. We yearn for no
share in Great Britain’s boasted “responsi-
bilities.” We desire no “’change booms ”
manipulated by war panics and press lies ;
we have no quarrel with any State, and our
arms are strong enough to protect the country
of our adoption or our birth. We refuse to
nurse Australia for a stamping-ground for
England’s over-plus, until that over-plus is
as Australian and as democratic in heart as
we are ourselves, and if to retain our place
it is necessary to cut the painter—Why,
well cut it!
The Criminal Neurosis.
Nothing can be more unprofitable than certain
forms of wrong-doing’—there is very little money
to be got out of them and precious little fun, while
there is the contingent and almost certain liability
of heavy punishment when the crime is discovered.
Yet the persistence of certain classes of our popu-
lation in following their gainless passion for
criminality is a standing commentary on the
adage that self-interest is the mainspring of all
human action. Speculation as to the cause of
this evil persistency has been continuous from the
tune when Job argued with Bildad the Shuhite
in the Land of Edom down to our own days
of Royal Commissions on criminal reform. Yet
there is very little agreement, except as to the
existence of the phenomenon. We may set aside
the theory that the passion for crime is due to
the promptings of Satan, as being somewhat un-
to the intellectual status of our readers,
Mr. V arlky and a few others excepted, and seek
an explanation in the domain of natural law. Like
poets, some, though not all, criminals are born—
net made. They go criminal just as others go
mad, because they cannot help themselves. The
criminal bias is deeply seated in their being and
lias its root in their physical constitution and
organic antecedents. Jt is hardly possible for a
man born with a sound mind in a sound body
to acquire a criminal neurosis, but any man
’“y ’ iv e such a life as to transmit to his
children a constitutional bias towards crime,
just as he may transmit to them the germ of
pulmonary trouble. Both the neurotic and the
lung disease may be checked in their further
development, or they, as too often happens, may
be strengthened in the second generation, so that
the one becomes a criminal disposition and the
other a constitutional habit. Such being the case,
. ,s J\ist as reasonable to censure the poor cougli-
mg victim of phthisis for his condition as to
blame the man who has received from his criminal
ancestors a tainted disposition for that bias
towards crime which is Ids inheritance.
* # #
Lvery man who does not start his life with the
endowment of a perfect moral sense may be said
to be a possible criminal. Mow true tliis is will
be obvious when it is remembered that the grada-
tions between the gaping idiot, without even the
faintest perception of moral sense and the most
perfect specimen of moral sensibility| are infinite.
.0 one can say at what point in the scale the
irresponsibility of defective intellect ceases and
complete responsibility begins. The most that
can advanced, is that a perfect mural srwr has
for its concomitant and
any grade of moral sense of what is perfect
is, so far, also short of 'complete responsibility.
The education a man receives and his environ-
ment, have, of course, ,a countervailing effect and
will supply, motives for right-doing, which may
overbalance the defects of his bad inheritance.
This is the chief justification of education, though
tlie ultimate fruits have- to be patiently waited
for. During the centuries that have been counted
out the .coarseness, the brutality, and the lust,
the rapine, the bigotry, and the crimes of humanity
have affected the natures we now possess. If our
heritage has been such that the blood that courses
through us has flowed an unpolluted stream from
what Byron calls “ its parent lake,” we are
indeed fortunate. We can boast a nature free
from the taint of criminal leanings, and will prob-
ably possess a will strong enough to resist the
assaults of evil passion. If, on the other hand,
our blood “has crept thro’ scoundrels ever since
the flood, ”_we will have inherited a criminal or
quasi-criminal neurosis, and our will may be all
too weak to resist the enticements of vice, whether
she appear in the seductive guise of the houri or
in the repulsive garb of venal lust. There is,
therefore, no merit in the man whose nature places
him out of the reach of temptation, and there is
no justifiable reproach for the weakling who
yields, unless indeed he falls below the level of his
own nature. What has been the product of
generations cannot be undone in one life-time.
Therefore, if we hoped from education only the
good of one generation we would, as St. Paul
says, be of all men the most miserable. The more
exquisite life which education and refinement
enable us to lead, would, perhaps, be a curse, if its
effect stopped with the current of our existence.
For—
We expect from education more than this. We
hope that the seeds we sow in our own souls will
fructify in those of our children, and in those of
their children, until human nature attains a moral
and intellectual perfection far exceeding that of
its mythical pristine condition.
* * #
All people whose word is worth taking are
agreed that habitual criminals are moral imbeciles.
For the crimes which have wrecked their lives,
they have no regret—for the violation of the most
sacred sanctions of humanity, no remorse. They
yield to crime, not because they are unable to com-
bat the evil impulses of passion, but because they
are so organised, mentally and physically, that
they have no repellant impulse, in this respect the
criminal and the insane are nearly related. They
both are weighted with the curse of an evil inherit-
ance, and well might the philosopher exclaim,
“ O God, be kind to the wicked; to the good thou
has been sufficiently kind in making them good !”
That the absence of moral sense may be congenital
will be obvious when the unaccountable bad-
ness of many children is remembered. Children
who, with every inducement to make them refined
and good, are nevertheless fiends incarnate. They
have, unfortunately for themselves, the burden of
a vile nature inherited from their immediate or
remote ancestors.
* # #
A perverted nature, however, is not necessarily
entirely congenital. The evil of a man’s inherit-
ance may, as we have said, be so accentuated and
added to by his own acts that the nature which he
brings into the world with him is essentially
different from that which he has when he stands
at the threshold of the grave. It is this fact which
would give colour to the suggestion that the nature
of the first child of a man whose character greatly
deteriorates as the years go by is inevitably
superior to that of the last child ; and on the con-
trary, that as the moral and intellectual nature of
the parents improve, so, too, will that of the chil-
dren successively born to them. Whether entirely
congenital or partly acquired, evil propensities
are or become veritable instincts and act just as
instincts do—against all reason. If the exercise
of these propensities be denied there will arise a
spirit of unrest which leads prisoners to break out,
without apparent cause, in rioting and useless de-
struction of property; and begets amongst persons
outside gaol-walls an epidemic of crime which is
as mysterious in its origin, as sudden in its termi-
nation.
* * *
Any one who has driven a mob of cattle will
have noticed the sudden instinct of fear which
sometimes seizes them. A string, a quarter of a
mile in length, will swerve as one, just as if the
sight which affrights the leader was telegraphed
instantaneously to the nethermost beast. So, too,
with crime. Vicious propensities become uncon-
trollable and break out in some special form of
crime, the epidemic increasing in violence month
after month, until a climax is reached, then sub-
siding as rapidly to the normal level, or giving
way to another variety of crime, and so on ad
infinitum. This has been our experience both in
Australia and in Europe, and we were curious
to see what statistics had to say about the
matter. Fortunately the statistician was able
to gratify our curiosity. Taking the past ten
years in New South Wales the record is
very remarkable. From 1879 to 1882 crimes of
horse, cattle and sheep stealing were epidemic
and in two of these years over 820 persons were
arrested for these offences. From 1882 to 1885
arson was rife, from 1885 to the present date em-
bezzlement seems to have taken hold of the popu-
lation, nor does the fever show signs of abating.
Besides these, there was an epidemic of murder
during the years 1883 and 1884, and an epidemic
of lust and bestiality during 1886 and 1887. If
there was no other evidence than the figures
afford, there would certainly be a strong presump-
tion that the cycles of crime were the product of
a condition of mind and a disposition to crime
over which the possessors had little control.
# * #
The question of the strict legal responsibility of
criminals we do not at present desire to discuss.
It will, however, be sufficiently obvious that as
society, with the approval of all, sequesters the
insane and accords them medical treatment, it is
also justified in similarly dealing with those whose
inheritance is equally faulty, though in another
direction. The chief point of interest is whether
t he course of punishment meted out to the habitual
criminal is not practically useless, and whether
the whole system should not be revised and crime
treated as a disease and not as an offence.
HENRY SIEBEL
“ Dearly bought the hidden treasures
Finer feelings can bestow,
Chords that vibrate sweetest pleasures
Thrill the deepest notes of woe.”
Mount Morgan in Eruption.
In Rockhampton (Q.) a speech was made last
week which was calculated to induce the average
white man to take himself by his collar tips and
draw himself out of his Kummerbund. -A certain
flabby little Divisional Board man, who by one of
fortune’s trick-of-the-loop movements has become
a millionaire and a Colonial Treasurer, favoured
the company in the course of this oration with a
specimen of his capacity to deal in public affairs.
He was once one of MTlwkaith’s creatures, and
owed all his political importance to the good-
natured toleration of Queensland’s ex-Premier.
This was before he became the Honourable Wil-
liam Mount Morgan Pattison, and virtual ruler
of tlie northern colony. The gold of the wonder-
ful mountain has done many strange things, it-raay
be noted in passing, but none more strange than
that of enabling a crabby and dull-witted vestry-
man to direct the course of the ha ute politique with
a commanding influence.
# # #
Upon the sudden breakdown of MTlwraith’s
health last year Pattison was pitchforked into
the Treaswrership of the colony to act as a stop-
gap until MTlwhajth’s return from foreign
parts. When in the course of time this event
came about, Pattison was apparently ready to
give up his temporary position in the Cabinet, but
the Cabinet was far from being the same as it had
been before MTiavbaith’s departure. A mighty
influence had been at work, and more than half
the Ministers had become shareholders in Mount
Morgan—buying their interest with paper which
had by then matured. Owing to the unforeseen
drop in the shares from their inflated value, the
bon. gentlemen would have been unable to meet
their engagements were it not for the good-
natured toleration of their colleague, the Trea-
surer. In such a Cabinet MTiwraith could not
hope to recover his influence, and therefore he left
it. His subsequent public references to his late
colleagues, however, were characterised by con-
siderable generosity, and he was especially nice to
Pattison, who reciprocated in kind. But the
withdrawal of MTlwkaith gave the Government
a shake which all but destroyed it, and so the
great man of the crowd could not digest the venom
of his spleen, hence the Rockhampton speech.
* # *
This speech was delivered hot-foot on the de-
parture of the ex-Premier. It accused him of
treachery, and of the grossest misconduct to
P attison personally. In it was repeated the cry
that M'llwbaith had “betrayed, the Govern-
ment.” It will be a pity, in view of his next
speech, if some one interested in Mr. Pattison
does not point out to him the striking difference
between his statements in the House and his state-
ments on things concerning his ex-leader. The
difference is so material that it compels the
ordinary observer to search Mr. Pattison’s own
forcible vocabulary for a fitting epithet for either
the one statement or the other—that is, if the
ordinary observer cares to take so much trouble
concerning any of Mr. Pattison’s remarks. It is
another matter, however, with regard to the cry of
betrayal of the Government, which Mr. Pattison
repeated, and concerning which this parable may
be spoken.
* * *
There was once a tiger who went in search of
big game. Out of pity he took with him six or
seven lean cats who had not enjoyed a square
meal for many weary months. After various suc-
cessful forays the tiger lay down to rest, and the
cats, now become plump and sleek, cocked their
hats side-ways, and with many murmurs went
a-hunting on their own account. But they
did not venture into the regions of the big game ;
they thought it wiser to seek in another direction
where they would be certain of field-mice, spar-
rows, and occasionally a not-too-high-spirited
rabbit. By and by the tiger arose and called upon
his friends to resume the journey through the land
of the big game, but the cats refused to go with
him. They were all under the influence of one
chubby Tom, who felt his own importance com-
pletely obliterated by the majestic presence of
the tiger, and was, therefore, anxious that they
should avoid his company for the future. But no
sooner had the tiger departed, as he did upon
learning their decision, than a monster with many
heads appeared and began to roar at the oats in a
fearful manner. At once the cats recognised the
need they were in of the help of the tiger, but
being cats which were just like ordinary oats,
they would not admit that the tiger’s absence was
due to their own fault. On the contrary, they
shook their heads and curled their tails and with
a doleful me-ow said that indeed their troubles
were entirely due to that treacherous tiger who
had so basely betrayed them, and had so shame-
fully run away instead of keeping close by them
while they enjoyed their little larks with the mice
and sparrows. And the end was that the monster
with many heads killed the cats and so effectually
inhumated them that their names are unknown
even to this day.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
That Birthday Address.
ì
have been only one. Secresy has thus gained for
him isolation, and factitious importance, the grati-
fication pf a puerile, if not senile, vanity. For
this, he damaged the value of his .presentation—
for he deprived it of, the atmosphere of national
approval. For this, he damaged the character of
his fellow-colonists—for he made it possible that
their silence, as a people, can be con-
strued as apathy or even antipathy. For
this, ho damaged his own character in.- so, far
as his' i participation in. colonial affairs is
concerned, for when the act is understood it will
intensify,the already widely-extended distrust in
his sincerity and singleness of pui’pose. New
South Wales is in want of public men who will
subordinate personal vanity, and be patriots first.
Voltajre, when at the German Court, applied for
some actors to perform one of las plays, and it is
said that when the performance was half through
he jumped up and shrieked: “ J’ai demands
des hommes, et Von m’envoic des Allemands ! ” New
South Wales has for years been calling for patriots
to occupy her political stage, and been getting only
political charlatans, one after another, or many
together, and it is time that an emphatic expres-
sion of public indignation should clear the boards
for men of better quality.
Clerical Immorality.
In conversation with a representative of the Pall
Mall Gazette, George Conquest, lessee of the
Surrey Theatre,- declared that he was not often
troubled by the Lord Chamberlain (the Court
official who, in England, supervises and licenses
all plays) except when he made “one of his vil-
lains a clergyman, when he was usually asked to
reconsider the matter and turn him into a school-
master, or something of that kind. Then a
favourite form of melodramatic scoundrel is the
young officer in the army. But perhaps there has
been a battle in Egypt and the British troops have
won a brilliant victory. In that case the Examiner
of Plays will say : “ Look here, Mr. Conquest,
our officers have been doing a good deal for us
lately. Don’t you think you could make this very
objectionable gentlemen something else ? ” Now,
why the stage clergyman should be unvaryingly
represented as good, when, as a matter of fact,
his tendencies in real life are often very much the
other way, may be evident to the Lord of the
Queen’s crockery, but it has no verisimilitude for
other folks. By last mail we have news of a par-
son who deserted his wife and four children to run
away to America with his housemaid, a very young
girl. Then we read of another Anglican divine
just remanded on a charge of embezzling£279, the
property of the Linfield Church Restoration Fund.
Yet another, the vicar of Barking Side has re-
fused to bury an unchristened child. Further-
more, the vicar of Accrington has attempted to
kick an official out who was holding, by per-
mission, his court in the national schoolroom. He
became so violent that the police had to interfere.
Fifthly, the vicar of Charlesworth has been
charged, at Glossop, with being drunk and riotous.
Certain sacrilegious villagers deposed that he
made rushes at twelve and fourteen-year-old girls,
and refused to leave a public-house, while a wicked
policeman said he was obliged to take a knife from
him. Lastly, another clergyman is missing, and,
as the young wife of a parishioner cannot be dis-
covered, the reports that he has been decoyed
away for murderous purposes by the Clan-na-Gael;
are not generally credited. The moral to be derived
from all these things is that, instead of morality
being dependent on religion, it is merely a
weak solution of it that keeps decaying creeds
tolerably sweet; that the disestablishment of a
Church, where the clergy are appointed by favour,
is absolutely necessary in the interests of justice
and social cleanliness ; that religious observ-
ance is a luxury which only willing participators
should be compelled to pay for, and, paying for,
should have the right to appoint its administrators.
Salisbury to Hopetoun.
(PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL DESPATCH.)
My Dear Lord, —I have viewed with great pleasure
tiie preparations made by you for your Victorian
Governorship. You have entered upon your task,
no less than the revival of Loyalty towards Her
Gracious and Sacred Majesty Queen Victoria in the
Antipodes, with a full appreciation of its magni-
tude. You display a laudable ambition to outvie
even Lords Carrington, Kintore, and Onslow.
I observe with satisfaction what a very slight
protest there has been from Victoria against the
means you have taken to establish your prestige.
Truly I trembled when I read that you had
despatched thirty footmen and, a dozen carriage-
horses, with a due complement of hunters and
hounds, and several hundreds of cases of cigars
and champagne.
The result shows me that the Radical and Re-
publican spirit in Australia is expiring. Go on
and conquer. Observe the magnificent testimonial
which has been presented to your predecessor by
the whole people of Victoria (so I am informed).
I must, however, give you a kindly warning
against a mistake made by Lord Kintore, in Ade-
laide, by referring to the colonists as “My People.”
This gave deep offence to Her Majesty. Kindly
avoid anything of that kind.
There was a time when we feared that Victoria
was hopelessly drifting from the Imperial connec-
tion. Thirty years ago the Government fell into
the hands of most unscrupulous Democrats. They
held the power for’, perhaps, ten years, but I am
happy to say that my private despatches from
the Governors show that Democracy is almost
entirely stamped out. May you finish the glorious
work. O ;| K
Be bold. Take the helm. Do not countenance
the Republicans in any way. They are almost
confined to Queensland, where the Chief Justice
avows himself an anti-imperialist. From thence
the rebel spirit gradually thins out southward.
Thus there is a small but helpless Republican
party in Sydney and scarce any in Melbourne.
Your aim now must be to show what a glorious
institution is the British Peerage, how admirably
suited, not only to England, but Australia. The
white flowers of the blameless lives of the Peers,
young and old, are a sufficient answer to calumny.
You will find a most obsequious society in Mel-
bourne. Let us capture Melbourne, so to speak,
and all Australia will follow this luxurious
Capital.
I have the honour to be, &c., &e.,
SALISBURY.
Said the Argus recently “ The long-
talked-of return visit of the Czar to the German
Emperor in Berlin has at last taken place. , .
The failure of the Czar to return the German
Emperor’s visit might have led to a rupture
between the two countries. ” Which sets us won-
dering whether N.S.W, ought not to declare war
against Victoria because Lady Loch didn’t come
over to see Lady Caringtou's new baby.


Us* Ratro's Bakin* Powder.
( i RONDONA and COMPANY. Limited.
Aro offering, as Liquidators,
■W4S packages (lards, Wliluklot, It run did.
Pl*no», l>ry Colours, Fuse, I. loves, and
Ocnrral Merchandise.
QRONDONA & COMPANY. Limited,
Hi Klng-atrcot, Melbourne. tTVI OM.
[?]
846 Maoquarie-street North, Sydney, November 27, 1889.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
Hymen has become so very shy in Sydney lately that they
have started a “ Matrimonial Bureau,” and “ ladies and
gentlemen requiring life-partners are requested to com-
municate to Box,” so and so. People are accustomed to
snigger at these sentimental snares, but if they only knew
how many prosperous and seemingly happy married
couples owe their introduction to a matrimonial adver-
ti semen t or agent they mightn't be so cynical about the
efficacy of the prescription. Dozens of men in “nice”
positions hate the very name of hop, tenuis-party, or the
afternoon-tea where eligible damsels most do congregate,
and when they feel like having someone a little dearer
than Mrs. O’Flannigan to hand them their coffee, they
have no blushing circle to select from and are driven to
the ambiguous and commercial-sounding ad. which often-
times conceals a thousand blushing bachelor hopes and
fears. I should like to give a list of local folks who have
married per matrimonial advertisement, bub people are
touchy about these little things, so perhaps I’d better not.
Judging from the crop of connubial demands in every
daily paper, I should say the Bureau will soon erect new
and commodious premises and give a banquet at the Town
Hall.
The one aim and object of the latter-day-dressmaker is
to send you out into the world with nowhere to conceal
your timepiece. To thwart these unkind people some-
body thought out the leather-bracelet idea, hut it didn't
catch on, for it made the wrist look like a navvy’s in full
work or swollen by a severe sprain, and nobody but strong-
minded people took to it. The latest idea of a watch re-
ceptacle is simply a leather card-case with the watch fixed in
a corner—about the best position possible. For instance,
when unking a formal call one cannot haul out one's
enemy to see whether the regulation ten minutes are up,
with the hope of timeing oneself exactly, but what is
easier than to glance at your card-case ? And to a woman
who wants to get through a stated number of calls in one
afternoon, to know exactly when to go away is to make
the greatest possible use of her time.
Tlie impression left upon me hy the Orpheus Society’s
ladies'concert at Sydney Y.M.C.A., on 20th inst., is of a
fiery furnace peopled with bare-armed women and a
cyclone of fans. It was very warm, and long before the
final duet everybody had a shining countenance and sleek,
straight bangs, and most of I lie performers needed hang-
ing out to dry after every item. Lady Carington, who
looked least like melting of any present, wore a handsome
gown of heliotrope silk with a plain and floral stripe, the
corsage cut square and filled with white lace, heliotrope
how in the hair fastened with diamond pins, diamond
bangles, and fan, her cloak being that very taking
arrangement in floral crOpe de chine. The rest of the
franking was moderate, and one clever Sydney pianiste,
who had evidently discovered in the cloak-room that her
bang was IchaTiodas far as curl went , was the only woma i
present with hat on, and she can't he too thankful that
it became her so well. The show itself was gaspingly
high-class, and the item that, appealed most successfully
to your Sappho's unutterable inwardness was the 15 ■
tlioven string quartette (Allpress, Wenzel, Rice and
Strauss) which opened the hall. By the by, the pro-
grammes announced that Charles Huenerbeiii is hou. sec.
of the Orpheus Club now, vice Churchill Otton, who
remains hon. treasurer.
Have you seen the “Garrick” cape—to he worn
with your walking or theatre gown ? It is in three
slightly fulled-ou capes, the lowest reaching to the
elbow, tlie neck being in two turned-down pointed
collars, tlie lower deeper than (lie upper, and fastened in
front with a big bow of ribbon. For the street it is made
in cloth of a dull colour—browns, greys, and fawns being
most affected, while for theatre wear it is of silk or faille
and is adorned with lace, passementerie or jet. They
showed me a perfect beauty at a drapery the other morn-
ing. It was in alternate capes of white faille and silk and
was trimmed with white jet, the how being of white floral
ribbon, and I was sorry to hear that it is to be worn out
of Australia. I hear that the Garri k will be the wear for
very swagger folk this and next season, to the utter ex-
clusion of the dangerously “smart” covert coat, which
has become 100 cheap and nasty to be tolerated on the
Block.
Don't you think it is a great pity in a Community like
ours where youths and maidens in. many ways enjoy
greater social freedom than their British cousins, that the
■ line should be drawn when Gus wants to take .Sis to the
theatre? Attendant on that simple ten-shilling and
t ram ticket ceremony are generally mamma and papa, a
sprinkling of sisters and a tremendous fuss, though some-
times the poor donc-up mater alone adorns the sacrifice.
It always saddens me to look round and see a fringe of
grey bads, wearied out with the day's toil or pleasure,
trying to doze intelligently over I he programmes. Parents
surely have enough leather over their offspring when
they’iv keeping them up to the mark in copper-toed hoolt
and clean pinafores ; to have to back them up even to
the threshold of connubialily is asking too much. Be-
sides, if James really isn't to be trusted to escort Maria
alone, two layers of suspicious but shallow female rela-
tives won't “ spoke his wheel,” as the bad little boys say,
so Maria’s mother might just as well trust in Providence
and atop at home. And then it makes me smile loudly
oftentimes to see a credulous, simple-faced old lady
chaperoning a girl of uncertain summers with a face like
a land-shark and an eye like an auctioneer's, who makes
two and two come to four every hour of her life I
Admiral Lord Charles Scott, with Lady Scott and
family, arrived in Sydney on 22nd inst. There were no
pviUn'u frills ib wit hi< lor (ship's reception by a palpi-
tating community, and not even a harp and violin were
■o poor as to do him reverence. Indeed the thing that
really acquainted the city with the fact of his safe arrival
was the boom of several dreadful guns which we’ve been
spared of late, and which is dreaded amongst mothers,
because, lam told, it “ always wakes baby up.” Lady
Scott is billed to open the Naval House bazaar, which will
take place at the York-street Rink on the 10th prox., and
Lord Charles has accepted an invitation to attend the
Ministerial dinner on 2nd prox.
I wonder why the majority of mothers keep their girls
in short skirts for such a long, long time ? I saw a girl of
quite sixteen the other day with a white muslin dress half-
way down her calves. It was blowing hard and the gyra-
tions of that white frock were something to he remem-
bered—you should have seen the mute misery on the
wearer’s face ! Of course, mamma’s usual reason for keep-
ng Sis’s ankles exposed is to prolong the juvenility of
elder sisters, but I have seen an only daughter dressed
like a ballet-girl at seventeen. At that age the precocious
Australian Miss is marriageable and as pretty as she ever
will be, but how could anybody but a schoolboy or a
nice, rich, bald old gentleman fall in love with a girl whose
knees are visible in a high wind ?
On dit that there is to be a reception at Government
House, and all those people who attend and yet never
penetrate to further festivities for want of push or purse
or something, have risen as one female to know if Miss
Judith Sydney Myee Carington will bo included in the
hill ? The vice-regal infant is much the same as any other
infant and not extra heavy, but still she is vice-regal, and
matronly curiosity is at fever-heat. If Lady Carington
wishes to please both parties she might submit her infant
to the wear and tear of the visitors’ admiration by hired
proxy. Babies are still cheap in the Evening News market.
Says a Federationist, writing to a Sydney daily“ In
conclusion permit me to remark that not the least credit-
able display of patriotism ... is that afforded by
our respected (didn’t he mean respective?) governors
who, in advocating Federation, are virtually working
towards an abolition of their own offices.” Quite so, but
if you notice only out-going Governors carry on like that
—Loch for one and the dear Baron for another. Canny
in-coming Hopetoun considers such things “ debatable
subjects and a Governor must hold bis tongue upon
them.” 'Twas ever thus.
On viewing the “ Royal Guard ” at Her Majesty on 25th
inst., in which all the men wear lace round their pantlets
and fix on their hats with bonnet-pins, your Sappho con-
cludes that the latter-day hanger and boxer arc far nearer
to the Divine idea of how the lords of creation ought to
look when they’re ready to go out. A man fixed up like
Isaacson as “ Lovey NIL,” with mauve follow-me-quick-
ends to his hat and goffered frills round his knee-caps,
couldn’t hope to respect himself when he looked in the
mirror and pondered over the possibilities Of his back
view. 1 like Thorne’s D'A'rtagnan ; though all
mightn’t agree' with ' Ill's ''conception' of the part,
still he gives* a novel and very possible read,
ing, and if only he had not invariably appeared
on the stage with leaps and hounds as if he'd swal-
lowed a Kangaroo, your Sappho would have added a
flower from -her.throbbing hear! to the gaudy vegetables
that found their way across the floats to the hen a mbvenr
at the final curtain, Being the second night there wasn't
a very gowned d.c., the main feature being a large, blonde
Thespian in the manager's box who wore an art costume
as usual, in white and can-de-nil, with her hair loose, of
course : and the majestic proportions of Henry Hyndes
loomed strditely ih a front seat.
If “eternal fitness" had been duly cofisultcei a greenery-
yallery dress-circle would have witnessed the revival of
“ Patience" a( Sydney Royal on 25th inst.— recalling the
time five y ears ago when limp, lank females with a
sunflower garnishment would undulate into front
seats and there languish until the curtain went
down. But; sine;;' then, the gospel of Lilies has given
way to the. adoration of Beef, and on Saturday
the only asthutii cost,nine that graced the well-filled
circle was worn by a large uH'rifereuis-lbcked “pro-
fessional;” it was ifi sort of Watteau rohe-de-miit in cie.'»
blue silk which had no perceptible waist. The only other
gown that caught your Sappho's’ eye was an art-green
tulle skirt with silken la dice, plume-fan en unite, and an
arrangement of oak-leaves in the hair. “ Patience," after
being such a tremendous anterior success in Sydney, comes
now as a sort of operatic chestnut, for not a quaver is
forgotten, and I found myself anticipating all the funni-
ments, hut, nevertheless, it went like ice in summer. In
the utle-v«/e the "dark " Miss Merivale, though-hand*
capped perhaps by: our vivid remembrance of Nellie, wat t
to my mind, a success. She is a smallish lady, with a hold
profile and a.tender voice, and though she acted in a low-
spirited manner, the feeling way-in which the “ Love-is-a
plaiiitive-song’’-solo was evolved made up. somewhat for
the absence of that vitality which so contrasts Patience
with Lady Jane. As the derelict esthetic, j’amjy Lid-
diarit evidently thought that one or t\\o daubs of black
grease-paint beside her nose was old enough make-up
and her gait was painfully youthful, hut the rest of the
love-sick maidens were simply “utter.” in the first act
Miss Merivale was presented with trihutory vegetables.
The picnic given to their employes up Lane Cove River
(Sydney) by Roberts and Co., machinery merchants,
Vork-street, on 16th lust., was one of those shavoos where
the vinegar isn’t upset into the milk and the given-head
ant treats the revellers with cold hauteur. Sports (for
prizes) were the main attraction, and the picnic proper
was simply a caterer’s inspiration. Nobody was drowned.
An Australian magnate, whose conjugal relations re-
mind one of a certain Royal couple, Ims lately been dis-
tinguishing himself hy his penchant for a comely lady
barnstormer. While acting at a suburban Town|Hall her
escort was invariably the magnate disguised (?) like Jones,
the Melbourne executioner, with a false beard. As the
lady is about to travel to a rather distant possession of
the Heinpire, and the magnate stops at a place on the
route, it is safe to assume that the same boat will carry
both, and the monotony of the voyage will not he noticed
by at least two hearts that beat as one.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
It was a gorgeous crammc I d.c.
That graced the benefit
That came last week to Jennie Lee,
Who didn't make a hit
In a weird gown of whitey-green,
And a long recitation
Jam-full of our Beloved Queen
And the great Hinglish nation.
The two “ distinguished amachaws,”
Who played the “ Happy Pair,”
Spoke as with toffee in their jaws
And hayseed in their hair.
P.ut in a robe of shining hues
Which fitted tight os pitch—
Also a pair of fetching shoes—
Khmaird has struck if rich.
Start not away in flight like this.
Nor on my pleadings for a kiss
Put cold and forma! vetoes:
I have not the small-pox, my pet,
I merely slept Without a not
And entertained mosquitoes.
CORRESPONDENCE
“L.J.P.”: The Sydney Jockey Turf Club’s
Consultations are a job “ H.S.T.”: Wants a lot of
polishing “Felix. Aust.”.: Kindly send name and ad-
dress “ L.0.E.” : These squabbles don’t necessarily
represent the antagonism of the various titled Premiers.
They only show how jealous the be-baubled personages
of the various Australias are of one another
“ C.J.0.”: The “Counsellor” sketch is the best, but
we’re afraid it isn’t original. In Australia we don’t call
barristers “ counsellors.” Send us something strictly
your 0wn.... “ O’Malley Your “ lay ”is scarcely worth
cackling over. Miner”: (1.) Prom all we hear pros-
pects are extremely uncertain at Johannesburg. (2.)
you decided to go and travelled cheaply £lOO would be
sufficient... “Pat Ington”: Verses feeble, rhymes un-
certain, sentiments washy. Sketch promising. Try
again. W. J. Norgrove”: Very nice, but unsuitable....
“H.E.J.” (North Shore): Good idea “Mem. Mit.”:
That Winton yarn originated in the old Port Essington
days—or perhaps it may date hack to the Noachian
period.... “ Ean Own ” ; You say, “ Away with care ”; we
have—into the editorial Sheol.. .“Gert”: “Girl ad-
mirer” you say, but, in spite of the handwriting, we have
our doubts. Not being insanely in love with the lady
ourselves, we consider that you may more fitly eulogise her
directly “J. Pannikin”: “Nelson’s story” as old as
Adam ... “ Subscriber ” (Alpha, Q.); First-class libel
“ W.W.” (Ivanhoe, N.S.W.): Will read “Trotter
Bethune”: It matters little who succeeds Queen Victoria.
Tlie worse the individual the quicker the dissolution of
the institution “ Chew Sum ” : Kindly send name and
address.... “ Clive Burnie ” (Grafton); Don’t touch them;
if you do you may lose your money “Kin”: Every
sentiment in Sir Charles Lilley’s letter has at one time or
other been the text of a Bulletin article “ J. Rider ”
(Melb.); Thank you “ L.L.”: Talk is cheap. Modern
saints are careful of their (Rev. Doctor) hyde
“ D.R.W.” (Maryborough): Many thanks “G.H.C.’
(Mackay) ; She meant it well, and it’s too late in the day
to criticise obituary poets “E. Greenlaw”: It’s only
the faith-cure business over again “ R.S. (Wanaaring):
At,the request of yourself and about 20 other correspon-
dents we re-print Dillon, M.P.’s prize hull: “ That Aus-
tralia may he great and powerful and that her manhood
may exceed the promise of her boyhood will be my most
earnest prayer.” “Kittle”: Thanks. Will read.,..
“ Q.K.D.” : Miss Nellie Stewart’s English theatrical ap-
pearances were confined to the auditorium “ Wallan
Billan ” : Thanks. We don’t print criminal libels for six-
pence apiece..C.E.D.”: We don’t agree with you
that it was “ cowardly,” Flick shot a constable dead,
then lie shot Frank I hum in the chest, and then he shot
& blaekfellow dead. Under those circumstances it was
’necessary to, lake him at any cost, and no one could ex-
pect good lives to be risked in taking him alive. [Many
letters held over.]
Progress, a nicely-got-up Melbourne
monthly, has been started with the avowed object
of “bringing about a co-operation of all those who
are)working against bad laws and bad habits.”
To this end Progress opens its second number
with a .set of verses from The Bulletin, and
gives other,indications of a desire to progress in
the right direction.
Goddard, the Broken Hill quartz-crusher,
haying knocked Dunn out in 14 rounds, Foley
has matched Dooley against him. The second
deposit of £5O has been put up in the Burge-
Baxter £5OO worry. We may be wrong, but we
do not think Foley has shown his usual astute-
ness in matching Burge against the Englishman
for so a stake. Burge is without doubt a
wonder at taking punishment, but ho is 38 years
of ,age, and it is scarcely likely he can cope with
any show of ’ success against a 24-year-old lad, if
said lad is up to the reputation he was imported
with.
Captain Morse and Prof. Donaldson were
banqueted by Landlord Justin, of Beach’s Hotel,
Sydney, on Monday night, and as Larry Foley and
Jack Thompson were the Ms.C. it need scarcely
be said that the proceedings were marked by a
decorum that would have disappointed Varley.
On Tuesday night Foley tendered Donald-
son a benefit, when a beautifully gory evening
was wound up by the stranger—a tine' strapping
fellow, albeit somewhat in the sere and yellow-
setting-to with Dooley. Sydneyites want to see
more of him.
With a couple of the Williams!own “ bul-
lookers” out of the Melbourne boat, it was hoped,
on the Sydney side of the border, that N.S.W.
would at last have a show of breaking that for-
midable list of eight-oar wins. But the hopes
were vain, Sydney not proving fast enough to keep
the Victorians extended. It at first blush seems
a marvellous thing that a colony which has turned
out Hickey, Green, Rush, Layoock, Triekett,
Beach, Kemp, Stansbury, Scarle, and so many
others of lesser light in the professional line, can-
not turn out eight amateurs to at least make some
show of a contest in place of the yearly “pro-
cession.” As New South Wales has evidently no
chance under present circumstances of winning an
eight-oar race against Victoria, would it not be as
well, pending other arrangements, to allow
the event to drop out of the aquatic calendar?
Up to date the selection of a bona-fide representa-
tive crew has invariably been hampered by club
jealousy. The Sydney Rowing Club and the
M.R.C. each wants to have the bulk of the re-
presentation, and regards the Balmain and Glebe
and other clubs us “outsiders,” and then again,
leaving out unworthy rivalry of the inter-club
order, there arc several otherwise first-class oars-
men who say they will only row conditionally on
some ancient crock or other being carried as a
passenger in the boat. An attempt has more
than onoe been made to force the inclusion of a
popular man who has been rowing for 20 years
and who must now be 38 if he’s a day. He is a
very good fellow, but his racing-rowing days are
over, like the fighting days of the Waterloo veterans
in the Benevolent Asylum. But as he can’t get
in, three or four others stay out. Concerning this
year’s N.S.W. crew, stroked by the gallant little
Mr. Thomson, all that can be said is that they
looked well on paper, did their level best, and
rowed an honest, plucky race; more no men can do.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre R0ya1.... “Olivette.”
Her Majesty's “ The Royal Guard."
Criterion. . “ The Squire.”
Cyclorama Battle of Gettysburg.
Palace Museum Reality and Illusion.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera House “ Antony and Cleopatra.”
Princess’ “ Little Lord Fauntleroy,”
Theatre Royal “ The Octoroon.”
Alexandra “Sultan of Mocha.”
St. George’s Hall Variety Company
Victoria Hall Variety Company
“ The Royal Guard” at Her Majesty’s
introduces Edwin Thorne, an American actor,
several sizes too longitudinous for his part, to the
notice of a soft-hearted Sydney public. This
alleged adaptation of Dumas pere’s great novel is
brimful of absurdities, many of which could be
excised by better staging and stage-management.
Mr. George Rignold, we may here remark, is not
playing, being on a visit to Melbourne with a
view, it is said, of making arrangements for a sea-
son there. The third and fourth acts are too ridi-
culous for anything, being swamped by a multi-
tudinous and insatiable canvas ocean that heaves
faintly as if agitated by seidlitz-powders at re-
mote intervals, and is sailed on by a ricketty
impossible ship. These items are embellished by
the fastest on record sculling performances of
D’Artagnan —not one of the Three Musketeers,
despite the local D.T.’s assertion—his sensational
head-first leap through a canvas bulk-head
into the arms of several ex-policemen, and
his swimming act, in which he occasionally
bobs up serenely from several fathoms deep,
and, wearing the ocean round his neck like a
collar, spouts real water at the stage cat. In spite
of these stupidities, and occasional lapses into
Americanisms, particularly in apostrophising his
sword Bobadillo, after this fashion; “Babby, I
guess I’ve gat a jab fer you at wan a’clack ! ” the
bright, good-humoured, intelligent actor caught on
at once and had the house with him, especially the
gods, all the time. The only other part of pro-
minence, Anne of Austria, is very well played
indeed by Miss Roland Watts-Phillips. Miss
Athena Claudius, as Constance—despite the D.T.
once more, not the wife of the True Briton’s land-
lord-gives an intelligent but over-subdued per-
formance. Of the others, Messrs. Jewett,
Sweeney, Ayrton, and Hazlitt, are most worthy
of commendation. “The Royal Guard” will
probably run for another week, but at the time of
writing nothing definite is known.
»# # *
The chief feature to be discussed in con-
nection with the reproduction of “Patience” at
Sydney Royal is the appearance of Miss Clara
Merivale, the new prima-donna. Her speaking
voice and her appearance continually suggest Pattie
Browne, while her musical method and the quality
of her singing voice is very nearly akin to that of
Isellie Stewart. She is somewhat stouter, how-
ever, and not quite so arch as Pattie, and her
voice, more sympathetic, lacks the dash and bril-
liancy of Nellie’s. _ Walter Marnock, the burgoo
baritone, is a fairly good Archibald, and his
tremolo does not jar on the ear in his pleading,
plaintive numbers as it does in manly, dashing
songs. Nothing like his dancing has been seen
since Cooper and Bailey’s capering elephant left
these shores. The other characters are in the
hands of their old impersonators, who are quite up
to old-time form.
** # #
Miss Jennie Lee was assisted in her Sydney
Royal benefit, through a varied and lengthy pro-
gramme, by Miss Ivanova, Messrs. Snazello and
Imano, and a lady and gentleman amateur, who
prudently enough, lacked sufficient self-confidence
to seek cognomenal publicity. The only new
feature, unpleasantly obtruded by the beneiidarc,
was a gushy-slushy recitation, by a “ loyal ” Irish
gentleman named Martin, in which is depicted the
intense love of the Dublin poor for the Royal
family of German paupers. This slobber had
evidently been dished up to tickle the palate of the
Governor, who, however, was not present, and fell
as flat as a dead fish on a wood-pavement and
drove several people out for recuperative purposes
long ere it was completely gutted. We can forgive
Jennie Lee much because of “ Jo,” but the demo-
cratic impulse which prompted that wonderful
conception might surely have prevented the actress
from outraging truth and right feeling by the
enunciation of such snobbish sentiments and
palpable prevarications.
* * * #-
At Sydney Criterion, Boucicault's part
has been filled by Mr. Chichester, while the
managerial twin was on a visit to Melbourne,
where, it is said, the Bijou will not be ready for
the Co. until March. This Saturday evening,
“ Diplomacy,” after a month’s run, will bo with-
drawn to make way for six nights of the “ Squire.”
** * *
We have seen it stated several times in
the Sydney papers that “ the Cyclorama must be
seen to be appreciated.” This statement is not
mentioned with a view to its contradiction, but
simply for corroborative purposes.
*■ iif « *-
At Bondi Aquarium, in addition to the
weird Wyman, rolling skate gyrator, Duncan 0.
Ross, the world’s champion athlete, vice Dinnie,
knocked out by old Time, engages with Capt.
.Jennings in a mounted sword contest on Saturday
afternoon.
** # *
At the Palace Museum things arc still
made pleasant for the public under the manager-
ship of Harold Ashton. Gertie Summerhayca,
the child-violinist, has been engaged, the Midgets
make their first appearance on this (Saturday)
evening, and the Sunday night programmes are
especially calculated to keep folks from prosy
sermons. Why don’t some good preachers hire
the theatres on Sunday nights and address the
public? Any really eloquent preacher could fill
the biggest theatre in any of our cities; theatres
are more plentiful than eloquent evangelists.
* # *
Miss Maggie Knight has recently success-
fully passed through the ordeal of a critical
operation at the hands of Dr. Foreman, and lies
awaiting the return of strength at the private
hospital of that gentleman.


Forty Years.
Ihe description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
ofFoaTY YEARS STANDING has just been effected,
will bo sent FREE to nnyone who applies to
' T FI NICHOLSON.
175 William Street. Melbourne. -
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
American Elgin Watches. Awarded two
Gold Medals. Melbourne Centennial International
Exhibition. 1888. being higher awards than any
other Exhibition of Watches obtained.
The langour induced by the drowsy,
muggy days of summer may be dispelled by the
use of Marshall’s Tonio Nervine.
John Farrell, poet and political economist,
has gone to New Zealand with the intention of
killing two birds with one stone. Besides explain -
ing the mysteries of Henry Gcorgeism to the be-
nighted Maorilanders he is going to write about
he exhibits at the big Maori show.
Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney — B6 King Street.
Melbourne— 369 Collins Street.
London Bankers—Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 3 King William Street, London, E.C.
Authorised Capital, £500,000.
T. S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Director.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage of all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits 11 ecetv ei >.
8 years 8i per cent.
12 months ... ,s per cent.
6 months 7 per con*.
3 months 6 per cent.
Communications to bo addressed to “Tho
Managing Director.”
Picturesque Concerts at Sydney
oohool of Arts provide much good vocalisation at
popular prices, but the wisdom of following a six
weeks high-class pictorial season with a vastly
interior style of views may be doubted.
** # *
Among the MacMahonian managerial
Christmas season theatrical engagements may be
mentioned :-—At Ballarat and Sandhurst the
l numyirate s Dramatic Company from Melbourne
Koval in Bells of Haslemere” and “Pointsman,”
to be followed by John Solomon’s English Opera
v>° : -Newcastle Sheridan’s “Fun on the
Bristol Company, while Monologuist Snazelle
will re-open in Melbourne Atheiueum, and Grattan
Biggs will waltz through Tasmania with a brogue
unimpaired by travel, accompanied by the “Irish
spirits" 176 * * The Shaughraun,” and other choice
** * *
Mr. Santley's farewell concert takes place
(under Baronial patronage) in Sydney Oentennial-
nan on this Saturday afternoon, at three o’clock.
Mr. Churchill Otton manages.
** * *
, . le Ifish Detective,” a drama upon
winch the sun seldom sets, is putting in another
mad week at Melbourne Royal with chronic suc-
cess. i\o change is apparent in the time-honored
mechanism of this old-established nightmare,
except that Grattan Riggs is a bit ropy and
doesn t spit on Mother Somebody’s floor so fre-
quently as lie has done on twenty-six previous
occasions. Otherwise the warrior’s versatility
remains a theme for admiration, which will doubt-
less be rewarded with much hob clam soup from
me orthodox I ress, A choice assortment of the
Royal company support Mr. Riggs in his suc-
cession of disguises, but their share of the tragedy
largely consists in falling down at the end of each
act, when Riggs hurls his whiskers into space and
lets off the weird announcement that he is Braeey,
the Detective. Consequently there is nothing
particular to say about the company, and the
scenery may be greeted with the respectful silence
due to grey hairs. Next Saturday (30th) they pro-
duce the Octoroon,” with Grattan Riggs as
Uncle Pete.
*% * *
On Monday last the enlightened intellect®
of both the Victorian Senates made a solemn
ih“scent upon the Opera House, in order “to sig-
nalise in an emphatic manner ’’—them’s their very
words—tlieu- parliamentary appreciation of Mr.
- Liln s efforts to promote the Shakespearian drama
and shed a little sweetness and light upon the
general education of the people. About 70 mem-
bers of the Assembly or Council signed the re-
quisition to Mr. Miln, one name only—that of
Mr. George Coppin—being conspicuous by its
absence. Evidently the venerable ex-lessee and
manager despises the Immortal Bard, or else he
wouldn t run the risk of being struck off the
1 numyirate s free-list for ever. No matter, this
exceptional advertisement has given a well-de-
served impetus to “Antony and Cleopatra,”
ancl if Miss Louise Jordan were two inches
taller,_ three stone heavier, and less palpably
American in her blank verse, it would not
be necessary to talk of substituting “Romeo
and .J uliet for this present impressive show yet
awhile. Circumstances—not unconnected with
Katie 1 utnam and other pilgrims from the West
—have set up a strong prejudice in Melbourne
against American performers of various grades,
the general complaint being that they all have the
same song to sing O ! although some may sing it
rather better than others. Only in the character
Ophelia has Miss Jordan been thoroughly ac-
ceptable. On the other hand, Mr. Miln’s method,
always magnetic and powerful, gains in finish and
polish every week. Fitful gleams of the divine
spark become more and more frequent in his per-
formances. So soon as he makes a point of acting
always as he does sometimes, Miln will be able to
carve bis name in large capitals upon any con-
venient pillar of the Temple of Fame.
** * «
-The Sultan of Mocha ” holds on very
well at the Alexandra, and “ Little Lord Fauntle-
roy continues to be a lamentable source of niia-
guided joy at the Princess’s. The sliding roof of
this show is generally opened between acts, that
the audience may see Heaven’s stars blinking with
disgust at the statement that it is a “great”
thing to be born an Earl. The Cogills and Slade
Murray, &c., have been supplemented by some
!*®. w P® o !*} 6 ’ , a,t St. George’s Hall, and pretty little
Ama inlloch seems to knock them with unusual
violence, at the Victoria. Also the National
Orchestra is troubled with swollen audiences of
late, owing to Wagner and the introduction of
incidental ballads. A little tight-rope dancing
would give the Orchestra a considerable leg-up in
the hearts of the people.
** * *
Rival Melbourne showmen are plotting
their hardest to secure the new Governor and
suite for a “first appearance at any Australian
theatre.” The Opera House, probably, will annex
the inaugurated “command,” in which event
prices are not to be raised, nor will seats be sold
|?y auction in the market-place. But should
W.G. and M. snap up this unparalleled attraction
it is anticipated that they will charge a “fiver” a
time for the dress-circle, and engage His Excellency’s
three Highland retainers to blow bagpipes for the
gilded throng.
*« * *
The Charringtons have failed so far to
create any enthusiasm over their performances at
the Adelaide Royal. “ Pygmalion and Galatea ”
was produced in rather an indifferent way, and
although Miss Aehnrch did nothing to call for
special remark, Mr. Charrington gave a rather un-
interesting impersonation of Pygmalion. “In His
Bower ” has suited better, and the drama is a
very fair one. Miss Aohurch’s Marie Graham is
tier best performance up to date, and Mr. Herbert
JL lemming as Hubert Graham scored heavily,
bearing the brunt of the work. “Merchant of
Venice and “Led Astray” will be the next
productions.
* * # Mf
Theatre parties have become an intoler-
able nuisance in Melbourne. The civilised
theatre-goer can now only count upon hearing a
p ay uninterrupted by yahoos on three nights in
rhe week. Ihe swallow-tailed and flat-bosomed
nobility muster in herds of two dozen to one sit-
ting, and incessantly cackle and giggle all together
throughout the programme. When a remonstra-
tivo hush, hush 1” k hurled at them, the cacklers
turn, glare in chorus, and then giggle in chorus as
beiore. Managers will have to do something in
this matter shortly. In London we have seen a
curtain rung down half through an act, and a
manager, stepping in front, drop a very neat flea
in the cacklers’ ears.
** * *
. Young Gordon Craig, who appears with
ins mother—Ellen Teny—in the “Dead Heart,”
w not the son of her first husband, G. F. Watts
7?ii was stated in last week’s Bulletin!
Lllen Terry s first child was born more than a year
after she had left Watts (an elderly recluse from
whom a romantic sixteen-year-old girl might be
excused for separating) and the father was the
Ute Mr. Godwin, architect and archaeologist.
Alter some years of retired life together down at
Harpenden, about 20 miles from London, Godwin
quarrelled with his love and left her. Whereupon
Lllen told the little ones that their Pa was dead,
bought a grave and erected a modest stone to
rod win s memory in one of the London cemeteries.
Occasionally she and the family made a pilgrim-
age to this excellent joke and strewed flowers
around it. Godwin actually did die about three
years ago.
** * *
On the first night of “ Antony and Cleo-
patra,” at Melbourne Opera House, scores of bona-
Me customers were turned away from the dress-
circle while scores of “deadheads,” more or less
on the list, ’ took their five shillings worths of
seat. Of these alleged pressmen perhaps not more
than one-fourth have any personal claim to a free
pass at any time, and of that fourth quantity only
one man in three has immediate business at a
hrst-mght show. On this particular occasion a
weekly—very weakly-suburban rag (publishing
six days after the event) passed in four of its nre-
cious ’ staff.” Of late the Melbourne theatres
seem to be pervaded by bogus pressmen, who are
g T e u'?: ly r r ?. ma . rka!),e for tlieir cast-iron front and
a habit of digging the acting-manager in his ribs,
i here are tales, too, going about of an out-and-out
little deceiver who represents a different paper at
every theatre, ball, or flare-up he can squeeze into
and makes a point of getting a pompous intro-
duction to the biggest bugs in each variety of per-
formance. He's probably canvassing advertise-
ments for the Timbuctoo Guardian. And the
purfeshun are on the alert to stand him a drink
with a view to making themselves “right” with
the Age, or some other influential horgan.
No sooner is Demos
■ Palmer out with his
' announcement of a play
of Napoleon, written for
Miln, than a very emi-
nent Melbourne littera-
teur springs into the arena
with the notification that
Demos may as well spare
himself the trouble, be-
cause he (the litterateur)
has already furnished
Miln with a Bonaparte
play. Miln also says he
don’t want Palmer’s, but
Palmer is going to stuff it
down his throat, and noti-
fies that the next “Im-
perial” will contain the
full first act. The other
play had better be handed
to the Centennial and
let them fight it out.
** * *
“ Peudragon ” sug-
gests that a revival of
“Amos Clarke,” with a
good, sound, robust actor
to play the name part,
might make a big mark
in London. What a
chance for George liig-
nold to go home and do
the deed! He was the ori-
gin al Amos, nearly twenty
years ago, and is as good,
sound, and even more ro-
bust than he was then.
*# * #
A group of alleged
cannibals, from Terra
del Puego—consisting of
one man, his mother,
three wives, and a baby
are being exhibited at
the Westminster Aqua-
rium. It is stated that
they consume 751bs. of
flesh or fish daily with-
out the assistance of
knives and forks. A
London writer says that
the husband picks all the
best bits for himself and
the next best for his fancy wife, quite neglecting
the wife with the baby—just for all the world as
if he were civilised.
* # *
Here is a verse from a song named “ Way
they’ve got in the Navy,” sung by Nellie Lennox
at the Peokham Palace, and interdicted by the
stern censor whom London Punch euphemistically
calls Muok-Dougall:—
They’ll stand you supper and chain, of course,
It’s a way they’ve got;
And call you “ Duokey ” until they’re hoarse,
It’s a way they’ve got;
And then they’ll find the game’s too slow,
And they’ll hail a hansom and off you go,
And your next address in Pimlico,
It’s a way they’ve got in the Navy,
They’ll sling you yarns that are warm all through,
They’re broad as the ocean and twice as blue.
This is merely suggestively graphic, “grossly in-
decent ” it cannot be styled even by those with the
keenest scent for the prurient. As the London Echo
points out “ the devilish ingenuity of dirty minds is
almost illimitable,” and it cites as an instance the
fact that “in the earlier days of Methodism, a
popular.preacher married the widow of a wealthy
city knight, and the Satirist supplied an epitha
larnium which was as disgusting as anything that
could be procured in Holywell-street ; yet this
production consisted solely of extracts from John
Wesley’s Hymn Book, without a single word of
alteration, but only ‘with the accent oil.’”
In order to successfully prosecute music-hall
singers who give it with “ the accent on ” it will
be necessary to “ take them down ” by means of
phonograph, while the “ highkickers ” will require
to be transfixed for ever in their indecent postures
by the dry plate of the instantaneous photograph,
in order to afford the judges and juries a fair
opportunity to assess their misdemeanour.
At Poverty Point.
The Much-travelled Smythe has informed the West
Australian people that Lydia Mamreoff Von to-be-con-
tmued-at-some-future-date Finkelstein is “ the Sara
Bernhardt of the platform.” As you could carve forty
Saras out of the massive Von Fink, and have matter
enough over to make a first-class theatrical manager, the
grimness of the old man’s humour is palpable.
Here are the names of a few among the number of well-
known Australian actors who have found little or no work t o
do since the recent large importations of British talent ;
1. C. Appleton, G. It. Ireland, Young Greville, John
Musgrave, J. J. Kennedy, Edwin Lester, H. Hubert, G.
, • Melville, J. p. O'Neill, Ohas. Seagrave, Win. Marshall,
Grattan Goghlan, Reg. Rede, T. N. Ford, Harry Daniells,
I* rank Gerald, Stilling Duff. There is nothing for them
but the country districts.
In a recent American production of “ Josephine,” the
.1 -'I 01 ' ?’ a P°^ eon ’ s sister, Pauline, had just explained
that if a girl were born five guns would be fired, and if it
were a boy, the number of volleys would reach 101. Bang !
went the first gun, the audience and actors listening
intently. The fifth gun boomed, and the firing seemed
to cease. 11 A girl ” sneered Pauline, completely disgusted.
Boom . went the sixth gun. “A boy ! ” cried the actors,
and a large number of excited auditors. Boom ! went the
seventh gun. “Twins!” shouted a boy in the gallery,
and the curtain went down amidst roars of laughter.
The really remarkable “monkey boys,” together with a
number of ordinary monstrosities recently exhibited at
Melbourne Waxworks, have been returned to India at the
V ictoriau Government’s expense,
A London manager proudly advertises that a critic
describes his play in these words: “Farcical comedy
could hardly descend to lower depths of suggestiveness.”
Irving introduces the bonnet rouge and the music of the
Marseillaise ” into the “ Dead Heart ” at the taking of
the Bastille. As a matter of fact, the Phrygian cap was
not seen, and the “ Marseillaise ” was not heard in Paris
until the Marseillais marched up to Paris headed by
Barbaroux.
Mr. Irving once at least appeared on the boards in
female attire. In 1886, at the Prince of Wales’ Theatre,
Liverpool, he performed the part of (Enone in a bur-
lesque extravaganza by Burnand.
Neat ad. from Times Madame Tussaud. 400 por-
trait models. Selected orchestral baud. Refreshment
department. Richard Pigott—-Chamber of Horrors.”
An Irish writer offers to write Barnum’s puffs and sends
a few samples like this: —“ As Mr. Barnum’s valet entered
his master's bedroom the other morning, and was proceed*
mg to clear away the cigar-ends from the night table, his
attention was attacted to a large hen of the Dorking
description which had calmly made her way into the room
when the great showman had retired for the night, and
was actually sitting on the sleeper's head, trying her best
to hatch it. The fowl is now to he seen in Mr. B’s un-
rivalled show, sitting on a small Dutch cheese, plaintively
clucking to the chicks she foolishly imagines to be in-
MISS FLORENCE MENK-MEYER
(The Australian Pianiste).
Mrs. Langtry produces Haddon Chambers’ new play at
> the St. James’; London, in January.
Canon Barnes, of London, is dead. Three of his
daughters, Violet, Edith, and Angela, are on the stage as
actresses or musicians under the name of Vanbrugh.
American description of Mike Rafferty, the Greatest
Delineator of Irish Character in the World. Mr. Rafferty
has a little Hat tipped over his forehead, a claw-hammer
coat with brass buttons, a plaid waistcoat, red whiskers
under his chin, and a green umbrella in his hand. As he
steps out of the wings he casts a roguish eye up at the
gallery. This starts the applause, and, as the band begins
Mr. Rafferty lifts his feet very high, and with his arras
pumping behind him, and an expression of magnificent
Celtic self-esteem on his wide mouth, he gains the centre
of the stage. With clenched fists, his eyes fixed high in
the air, Mr. Rafferty sings:
Twuz up ter M'Govern’s lasht Choosda’ evenin’,
Phwin Mac’s bye Dinny war given his name,
We dhrank thurrta rounds av foine lager beer,
An’ Riley fit Phil Daly’s gawt; I tell yez dthey war
game.
Riley joomped, an dther hams av dther billy
An’ shtuok Ins paws gintly right intif his ears,
An’ I tell yez dther way dther gawt chood Riley’s pant*
War wurth dther assisstment av dthur thurrta beers.
CHORUS.
Up ter M’Governses party,
Dtheres pwere we all were so hearty,
Dther ambulance called for M’Carty.
Up ter M'Qovernses party,
Hooroo!
“ Why,” said he, “ did you notbringyour opera glass?”
1 1 did ; but I can’t use it.” “Is it broken ?” "No but
I forgot to put on my bracelets.”
Kreitmayer, the Waxworksman, is sending to the New
Zealand Exhibition quite a Chamber of Horrors, including
the wax model of a tumor taken away from a woman a
few days ago by a Melbourne doctor. This hideous
item weighed 25 pounds in its natural state.
After life’s typhoid fever they sleep well.
■ —Melbourne proverb.
Bradlaugh says that his only means of
subsistence from day to day are the precarious
produce of his tongue and pen.
Baker Weeding, of Melbourne, is wanting
to institute more divorce proceedings with Dr.
Rose as co-respondent once again.
The Montreal Herald (published in that
part of Canada where the French are strongest)
openly urges that Canada should follow the lead
ot -Brazil and proclaim a Republic,
A London writer says the Duke of Edin-
burgh is not half so annoyed at his “niece’s
mesalliance ” as is Henry of Battenberg, who was
never a prince until the Queen made him one.
Mr. George Christie, the well-known pub-
lic accountant and the author of a new system of
keeping municipal accounts is a candidate for the
auditorship of the city of Sydney. His services
in the Bradford and other Municipal fraud-cases
entitle him to full public confidence and support.
A flourishing colonial industry is that of
Messrs. J. Ludowici and Son, of the Pioneer
tannery, Lane Cove River and Clarence-street,
Sydney. From this establishment can be ob-
tained tlie patent “link-belting; raw hide-
belting ; lace_ hides of best-selected leather;
raw hide-bolting-laces, exceedingly strong ; belt,
hydraulic, sole, and pump leathers ; raw hides, in
sides, for belting ; round leather-belting ; leather
hose ; vulcanised indiai übber belting - (two-ply up
to ten-ply); English and American leather
be!ting ; patent simplex, woven cotton-belting:
leather fire-buckets for domestic, ship, and fire-
brigade use, &o. ; while patent hair-belting is also
manufactured. The belting of this firm is used
by the N.S.W. Government, and more than
200,000 feet are now working in these colonies.
The well-known auctioneers, Messrs.
Shevill and Co., corner Flinders-lane and Queen-
street, Melbourne, have been holding extensive
sales of oil and water-colour paintings bv well-
known artists at their art sale-rooms, Queen’s-
walk, Swanston-street. The “ Knight of the
Hammer,” Mr. Shevill, had little or no difficulty
m getting substantial prices, “ the bidding being
most spirited."’ M e are therefore convinced that
connoisseurs are ever ready to give a air price for
a really good article. The pictures are always
displayed with such good taste as to show them
off to advantage, thus inspiring many with a
craving for that which it was not their intention
to purchase. Art sales will be held regularly in
these rooms, and we can with confidence recom-
mend those who are disposing of their collection
of pictures to place them in the hands of this firm
who do justice to their clients. Daily sales are
held at their commodious new rooms in Queons-
etreet.
Admiration for Mr. Geo. Rignold broke
out in the form of a dinner tendered to him by the
citizens of Sydney on Tuesday evening of last
week, at Baumann’s Cafe. The dinner was a good
one, and George had a “full ” house in more than
one sense of the word. The chair was full of Sir
Tat- Jennings, who apologised for occupying it as
a substitute for the more ethereal presence of Dr.
Garran, who was to have presided but sent ex-
cuses. Mr. Carruthers proposed the health of
“ Our Guest, ' and made a lengthy address, in
which he insisted that “Federation was in the
air, ’ and that Mr. Rignold in some mysterious
way (not quite clear to everyone present), was
helping it on. (Hear, hear). Mr. Rignold, on
rising to respond, was majestically solemn, almost
tearful. It was the funereal manner of the late Mr.
Antony, but wemissed the tireof that noble Roman’s
eloquence, and we also missed the red and other
fires of various hues in the glare of which Hand-
some George delights to speak his lines. Mr.
Rignold said he came not there to bury Ctesar ;
this was an off-night, and for once in a way the
illustrious deceased might look after his own re-
mains. Beggar that he (Mr. Rignold) was, he was
even poor in thanks, which he admitted was not
original, but served as well as anything else to’
begin an after-dinner speech with. Rome was not
built in a day, neither was George Rignold. Since
he had come upon the stage, the stage had be-
come respectable and aot-ors, from being a kind
of social Ishmaelites, were now the correct card
among the upper circles. . . . In his opinion
the “ gods ” were always the most correct critics
of acting, and he (the speaker) had never met with
such appreciative gods as those who habitually
looked down from the galleries of Her Majesty’s.
It was not too much to hope that the time
might come when theatre audiences would
consist entirely of gods. Fed—(applause)—
eration (tremendous cheering)—was in (np-
roaib the air (cries of “Order” and “Chest-
nut !”), and would probably remain there to an
indefinite extent. He thanked them for the hearty
manner, &c., &e. Mr. Salomons then proposed
“Dramatic Art,” and said that the stage was a
great educator; that Federation was somewhere
or other (our representative couldn’t exactly catch
where), and that if Mr. Rignold continued to take
care of himself he might yet become one of the
brightest stars in the galaxy of the Empire. Mr.
J. 0. Williamson, in responding, didn’t think
Federation was in the air-at least, he didn’t say
so, but hoped the time might come when Sydney
people would remember him a little bit. Mr.
Snazelle responded briefly. He thought he might
say that Fed— (Here Dan O’Connor, with ad-
mirable presence of mind, sprang to his feet and
proposed “The Chairman,” and the house then
rose.)
Edward Searle ’tis truly said
That you must find your life void;
They always do who lie in bed
While suffering from typhoid.
ilie ladies call him “ Prince ” or “ Bert,”,
Unless they’re awful chummy,
have a mind to let him llijh—
’Us then they call him “Tummy.”


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
«»')»« o ■<* ■«
Be on your guard for Frauds when purchasing
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must, be true
—that Pemell's Snow wtimt Patent Rou.kk Fi,oir is the
be ( in the market.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Victorian squnttocracy may be a godly
race, but it is not an absolutely cleanly race. One
of the cleaner variety, a member of the honorable
Upper House, tells of his unhappily having to
sleep in the same room with a, godless and dirty
brother who hailed from an extensive sheep-
station not 2500 miles from Benalla. To his (the
cleaner brother’s) surprise, the frailer brother, on
retiring, merely shed a couple of familiar gar-
ments and then crept between the sheets still
clothed in his collar and necktie and their concomi-
tants. Noticing the stare of the Honourable, the
unclean spirit a]H>logetically remarked ; “ You
know 1 never take off my collar and necktie when
I’m away from home, as I never could manage to
put ’em on again without the old woman's help.’
I tear friends, is marriage a failure ?
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
F. W. .lONHON, ritiunn's Forliflrntod Tcnelior.
Shorthand taught in 20 Half-hour Private Lessons Fee,
425. Reporting Style or Finishing Lessons successfully
given by post/—Course of 13 lessons, 21a., or 2s. per lesson.
Fees in Advance.
Predestination.
Dear Bulletin, —Unfortunately for the
Church (any church except that of the doctrine,
not dogma, of Christianity) I am not a church-
man. If I had been allowed by my conscience to
remain in the faith of my very mixed forefathers,
then priests and parsons, elders and lay brethren,
shepherds and shepherdessess would now have
been wallowing in wine and oil (eugh !), milk and
honey (eugher !!) and feasts of fat things
(eughest! ! ! but I like fat women) at my expense.
As it is, I drink my whisky sometimes in company
and sometimes with James Woods, sometimes at
ray own expense, but oftener at another’s, and I
care not whether Moran and Barry and Jefferis
have to boil their own billy so long as I have
enough for myself and my mates. But I can see
a means of fixing a man’s destiny (only about one
in a thousand), for the Church through a Scotch
paper has advised me of a capital method of ar-
riving, , immediately after a child’s birth, at a
knowledge of his fate.
* * *
Here I ask to be permitted to quote the para-
graph from the Dundee Advertiser, which has
explained what some people might tell as a
miracle, and which has caused the “ greatest ex-
citement,” and is taken as “ supernatural in-
fluence ”
Born a Missionary.
An “extraordinary affair has occurred at Maryport.
A few days ago the wife of a labourer in the town gave
birth to a son. When the child was born it was found
that its head was covered with a veil or caul. The veil
was placed on one side, and no notice was taken of it
until some hours after the child’s birth. When examined,
however, it was found that the words “British and Foreign
Bible Society” were-deeply impressed upon the veil.
When this discovery was made the greatest excitement
prevailed in the neighbourhood, some of the women
declaring that nothing short of a miracle had been
enacted. The doctor, who enquired into the matter,
however, soon explained the affair. The veil, whilst in a
pliable condition, had been placed upon a Bible, on the
cover of which the words “ British and Foreign Bible
Society were deeply indented. The words were in this
way transferred to the veil; but some of the inhabitants
still ascribe the affair to supernatural influence, and de-
clare that the child is a “missionary born.”— Leeds
Mercury.
This little par opens up a fund of speculation. I’ll
lay odds that some sawney from Skye or Clack-
mannan has already preached to his congregation
on the text, “Moreover whom he did predestinate
them he also cauled. ” No ministerial son of a
sweetie-wife could resist such a pun. But, unfor-
tunately, the number of children born with cauls
is less than one per thousand. I was born with a
caul—a bottle call. Mine was hung on the lock
of a pistol and fell afterwards on to a decanter, of
which the silver label, chained on, showed the
significant invitation to whisky—no whis&cy, the
key of our existence.
# * *
Now, supposing the labourer’s sou had son is
careless old howdie woman as wet-nurse and she
had put his integument on “ Drink Wolfe’s
Schnapps,” “Use Conqueror Tobacco,” “Consult
L. L. Smith,” or even say a Nooze heading like
“ Jack the Ripper, Again,” would the kid have
been a bom schnapper, smoker, unwell-young-
man, or murderer ? To return to “ cauls. ” An
uncle of mine was born with one. You cannot be
drowned if thus presented to the woi’ld of sin.
My uncle died mad in Aberdeen. Dr. Palmer,
the Rugeley poisoner, who was hanged, was born
with a “caul;” I am not sure about Madeline
Smith. Sailors think that if they have a child’s
caul in their sea-chest they can't be wrecked.
Hence the numerous advertisements for the
article. I should suggest to Foreign-trade
Secretary Pulsford that he has omitted the colonial
industry of caul-making. The factory is some-
where in Sussex-street. It employs one drunken,
broken-down swell, who was a doctor.
There are three qualities. No. 1. Made of the
skin of sheep’s-kidney-fat; costs nil, selling price,
ten shillings or so.
No. 2. Collodion poured on the outside of a
bowl and peeled off. This is a very fair article,
and if done up with a lock of baby’s hair and an
inscription on the wrapper, such as “Johnnie’s
Caul, ” will fetch £1 to £2.
No. 3 is of gold-beaters’ skin, and is served up
in a jeweller’s box with camphor and scent and a
lock of the father’s hair and ditto of the mother's.
In double-extra-superior lines tho grandmother's
wedding-ring is thrown in and the price will go
up to £5 or £lO.
No. 1 soon decomposes. You can expect a per-
manent joy for half-a-sov.
No. 2 won’t stand alcohol; will melt, in fact, if
you spill your gin over it, but still, with fail-
treatment, I can recommend No. 3 to the lower
orders of Highlanders and Irish who are rich
enough to travel to Europe.
As I remarked, I was born with the lucky
envelope. I can’t be drowned ; but I have broken
half the bones in my body and my dog has just
died. My best girl has gone on the wallaby with
a vagabond who teaches the back-blocks publican
to make rum at Is. 9d. a gallon.
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
Divinity is the easiest profession. It is
easier to preach than to practise.
A tame magpie has pecked out the eye of
an unfortunate Bendigo footballer, who was lying
on a couch reading. Very likely the bird recog-
nised the incongruity of his proceedings.
A London artificial-eye maker states that
“ a rich man who is obliged to wear an artificial
eye will wear three different eyes every day—an
eye for morning, when the pupil is not very large :
an eye for afternoon, when the pupil is smaller ;
an eye for evening, when the pupil has expanded
to its full size. Some people keep quite a stock of
eyes in their possession. In fact, no less than
twelve eyes had been made for one gentleman
within the last three months.
A Burketown resident has introduced an
oasis of comfort into the wild desert of Curpen-
tarian life. He turns an ordinary photographic
camera towards the insects doomed for slaughter.'
Now the Burketown fly takes an insane delight in
being photographed, and to that end will
remain perfectly still an incredible space of time.
The’skilful operator, having secured either a shot-
gun, barn door, or gate-j Mist, cautiously circum-
vents the guileless insect, which is, of course,
intent only on maintaining the most elegant
imaginable attitude, and proceeds to squelch him.
There is joy in Burketown.
Donald Dinnie, the athlete, filed his bonnie
shovel the other day. Donald is running livery-
stables in Melbourne.
Barber (a new hand) : “ Have you got a
mug, sir?” M‘Turk : “I have, sor ! and I want
to be shaved dom quick.— Texas Siftings.
The good wife of Mr. Wackstend, the
shoemaker, has presented him with twins. He
looks at the cherubs critically and asks : “Are
they rights and lefts ?”— Burdette.
A “loyal” Irish paper wants to know
“how London Punch keeps up its average in the
matter of contributions?” That’s an easy one.
Punch has got no further to fall.
An English M.P. lately, in answer to a
constituent’s request for his views on the drink
question, replied:-“My opinion is, I would
rather drink a cup of tea with a pretty woman
than a pint of beer with an ugly man.”
The Bulletin sees that London Puck has
now taken to stealing columns of its original
matter without acknowledgment. Half-a-dozen
London papers, including the prodigiously-success-
ful Modern Society, have, established reputations
on matter scissored from The Bulletin.
Griffith is already hard at work on the
Queensland Investment Company writs against
the Queensland directors —Drury, Palmer, and
MTlwraith, for which he is chief counsel. Rather
startling disclosures are spoken of, and there is
considerable anxiety as to their effects on a well-
known local bank.
He wore a coloured shirt, a flaring collar,
a gaudy necktie, and a suit of checked clothes.
“ You look like a minstrel man,” said the gentle-
man whose office he had entered. “ I know it,”
said the domed i ah, “-and I hate to look at myself,
but my mother-in-law died the other day, and
this is the only mourning attire I own.”—Ex.
Mrs. ,Eu-J. Todd, of Sydney,’ states that
the happiness of our Australian homes is im-
perilled by the arrogance and incompetence of
colonial servants. It’s the arrogance of “ missus ”
that Biddy objects to, and her favourite parting
shot is,'‘“You were eyidingly not brought up to
keep servints.” Which doesn’t go very wide of
the mark, in many cases.
After all, Slavin was fortunate in being
allowed to knock-out Bill Goode, for the match
was evidently arranged by Goode’s backers on the
win, tie, or wrangle system. Astley’s Theatre,
where the men met, is in the very heart of London
ruffianism, and the surrounding neighbourhood is
alive with gentlemen variously described as the
SHE: “A STATISTICIAN SAYS HERE ‘THAT A MAN 50 YEARS OLD HAS
SPENT THREE MONTHS OF HIS LIFE IN BUTTONING HIS COLLAR.’”
HE: “YES, AND HOW MUCH TIME HAS HE LOST THROUGH FINDING
THE BUTTON HAS COME OFF? ”
wrong ’uns, the talent, or the “ dangerous classes. ’’
There must have been a small army of East End
police to keep such a mob from eating Slavin in
one act.
Dear Bulletin, — A certain N.S. Wales M.P.
was lately driven about by a certain coachman. That
coachman has now a contract to deliver mails somewhere,
hut no notice was given in the papers or Gazette, as far as
I can find out, of any tenders being required. Another
mailman has to cover nearly all the distance twice every
week, and at a very small increase in his subsidy would
have been prepared to take the mails the remainder of
the distance. The first-mentioned mailman now takes his
mails past the post-office where.the first delivers his, and
people in the middle place cannot send or receive mail
matter by the new mail. Will the Postmaster-General see
to this? —Yours, “Morah.” Tomingley, N.S.W., 14th
November.
The precarious nature of the circus busi-
ness is evidenced by the fact that three ex-
proprietors of flourishing circuses are included in
the Wirth Troupe, lately performing at Melbourne.
These are Messrs. Walhalla, St. Leon, and Mat-
thews. Yet Henry Burton managed his Aus-
tralian circus for 30 years, while Ashton brought
his out of Noah's Ark. Burton ought to have-
utilised Ids leisure at Redbank with racy autobio-
graphy, which would beat “ Gil Bias ” for variety
of adventure. Yes, get Harry by his fireside, and
what a history could he unfold ! What kills the
circus-manager is floods. The last one squelched
all the circuses like mosquitoes.
Wybert Reeve lately chipped in with excel-
lent reminiscences of his intimate friend, Wilkie
Collins. An actor always has his little axe to
grind. In the Melbourne Public Library we en-
countered a blue volume about tho Shakespeare
Centenary, at Stratford -on - Avon, with some
glowing memorials of the performances of “Mr.
William Creswick, from London.” Presentation
volume, of course. Wybert Reeve’s little axe is
to refute a current idea that he was an imitator of
George Vining, in the “ Woman in White.” At
the original London production, Reeve was Walter
Hartright, to Vining's Fosco. Collins transferred
his affection from Mining to Reeve, as the jierfect
Fosco. The novelist told Reeve that he got his
Fosco, and the whole plot, from a kind of French
Newgate Calendar, which he picked up in Paris.
Fechter would have been entrusted with Foseo
had not Wybert Reeve been available. Ahem !
The Victorian Assembly distributed “sugar”
freely during the last week of the session just
ended. Another £lOOO a year was tacked on to
Railway Commissioner Speight’s salary, and £5OO
a year to that of his two subs. The Government
House decorators got their account for £32,000
passed through with a faint semblance of a
struggle, and then old Gregory, the Parliamentary
caterer, was rewarded for his 32 years of monopoly
with a douceur of £l5OO. On the face of it this
Gregory grant was a contemptible little job. The
man is retiring on a fortune made in the ’Ouse.
Even his table and cooking utensils were charged
to the country, and yet his customers give him a
parting “tip” out of the public purse. The old
members worked the oracle for Gregory, as some
return for long years of “best cuts ” and juiciest
steaks. And Duncan Gillies, being one of the
oldest members and greatest “ whales ” for tit-bits,
was disposed to be generous with the funds. It
was characteristic of the open-handed Scotchman
who once tipped a waiter one penny without ask-
ing for any change.
Dear Bulletin, — A swagman lately told
me a story of a fishing adventure on the Murray.
He was working for the noted old B -. “ Com-
pany ” came to the station. The boss asked for
fish ; prime specimens of Murray cod. The swag-
man now chips in : “I went to the river; baited
with a fine healthy frog and cast my line. In
about ten minutes I got a grand bite and hooked
my fish. I knew he was a whopper. I played him
for forty minutes. After a desperate struggle I
landed him. ‘ A hundred and thirty-pounder ! ’
I said. I scaled him and cut him open, and found
inside a thirty-pounder, which I opened. He
contained an eighteen-pounder. Look, sir ! I give
you my word of honour that I was astounded. I
was so amazed that I forgot to swear. For curi-
osity, I opened the eighteen-pounder, and—found
a seven-pounder. That staggered me. I was
afraid to open him. I flung down my knife and
fled.” I called my kangaroo dogs ; but Mr. Izaak
Walton Baekblocks had again fled. Probably the
seven-pounder contained a two-pounder, which
held a one-pounder, which was outside a frog,
which had swallowed a fly, that had —well —who
knows?— J. Pannikin.
When Mrs. Burnett wrote that delicious
novel, “ Little Lord Eauntleroy,” she had no idea
that it would make a play, but a Mr. Seebohm
dramatised it in London with prodigious success
as a matinee piece for the young aristocracy.
Mrs. Burnett was then up in arms, and poor
Seebohm received such abuse as a thief and a
robber that he went to New York and committed
suicide. Mrs. Burnett fixed up her own drama-
tisation, entitled “The Real Little Lord Faun-
tleroy,” which is the version acted in Melbourne.
London critics thought it inferior to Seebohm’s.
Managers pooh-poohed the idea of dramatising
“ Lord I auntleroy ” because there is not a spark
of love-making in it, but the public is tired of
taffy. That scene of the apartment, in Dorin-
court Castle, at the Princess’, is the best interior
yet staged in Melbourne, and you will ransack
your memory to find it surpassed in London. It
reminds one of the splendid interior put on the
1 wards of the little Prince of Wales’, Tottenham
Court-road, by the Bancrofts for the translation
of Sardou’s “Nos Intimes’’-—called “Friends”
when it was played in Sydney. This was so
elaborately built that it coidd not well be taken
down during the whole lengthy run of the piece,
the other scenes being placed in front.
John Scott Mills, the Melbourne attorney
who died the other day, aged 81, was (in point of
age) one of the oldest practitioners in Austra-
lasia and one of the best known. For years he
held the lucrative post of solicitor to the late
Aaron Waxman, the leviathan money-lender.
There are now lots of Hebrew lawyers in Mel-
bourne, but Aaron preferred employing one who
had a fine old Irish brogue. To Mills tlie colony
is indebted for F. L. Smyth, formerly Chairman
of Committees in the Assembly, who immortalised
himself by the memorable threat to the old Tory
Legislative Council that if they didn’t pass a cer-
tain Bill which had been approved by the Lower
House, “the crack of the rifle might be. heard
under the windows of the Council.” One
day m 1867 Mills met Smyth (whom he
know years before in Ireland) hurrying off towards
Sandndge. “Halloa, what are you up to ?” sez
John Mills. “Going home, old hoy,” says
Smith; “don’t like this confounded colony,”
“ Oh, d it, give it a fair chance,” suggested
Mills, and the upshot of it was that Symth agreed
to forfeit his passage-money to England and re-
main in Victoria. Mills then had a big case on
hand. A young chemist at Hotlmm was charged
with poisoning his wife. J.S.M. gave Smyth a
brief for the inquest and afterwards for the trial,
and thus brought him under public notice as a
barrister. The chemist was acquitted at the
Supreme Court, and is now a |>opular alderman in
an Australian city. The shipping company got
another passenger for Smyth's berth and gave him
back his passage-money.
LINES.
Suggested by the loyal, humble, and respectful
testimonial given by the Melbourne Trades Hal)
Council to Sir Henry Loch :
May it Please Your Excellency—
You have now received the tribute from your
equals,
The noble, dazzling, and superb trophy
Eor our late Queen and Empress, Lady Loch.
A few common tradesmen,
Not porcelain, but only vulgar china,
Now venture to present a tribute.
Oh, your Excellency, we feel our degradation ?
We are not in Society ;
Our wives are dirty working women—
Not lily-handed, like your own fair dames.
Before such they would not dare to speak.
Yes ! We humbly do acknowledge
That Labour is dishonourable and Work disgrace-
ful;
The real acme, zenith, and climax of humanity
Is attained within your lofty circles,
Though Carlyle, in his miserable spite,
Calls them Do-Nothings and Eat-Alls.
We cringe and crawl before their glory.
Labour is abashed and not Respectable,
We touch our hats in right good English style.
One Stephens, Founder of the Eight'Hour?
System,
Died in Melbourne just the other day,
We beg you’ll pardon him for having lived.
He was a Chartist—such must ever be
A horror to your noble ranks;
But such men leave not their successors.
We are proud to say Democracy in Victoria
Is squelched and dead. The Employers’ Union
Is the object of our worship. Our minds
Rise to the pitch of highest exaltation.
And exultation, too, as we now contemplate
The effulgent advent of Lord Hopetonn,
Oh ! what glory and magnificence !
Thirty footmen ! Can it be
That Melbourne is so privileged ?
Oh, Trade where is thy plush ?
Dirty workmen, stand aside,
Recognise the fountains of true honour.
The Melbourne trades are like
Uriah Heep and his dear mother.
“ Mother and me’s so ’umble.”
Oh, let that ever be our motto.
Highest in the scale of true nobility
Are the English lords and lordlings,
Baronets, knights, and C.M.G.’s,
And so you come in proper graduated scale
Down to the wretched working man.
Our sentiment is embodied in these noble lines,
Cod Bless the Squire and his relations,
And teach us all to keep our proper stations.
Another glorious couplet is ever in our minds,
Let Laws and Commerce, Arts and Learning die,
But leave us still our old Nobility.
Yes, that is what we love.
It blossoms in the Loudon West End clubs;
Like Sir Graham Berry, we are all repentant.
No Proletariat e’er shall mar this land.
And Oh ! we crave for a Nobility of our own.
Have we not a Grand Old Man as Lord Sydney ?
(Dappling the chains that bind us to the 'Empire.
Please encourage him, and Sir Benjy Benjy.
Ah. twould delight us were the title
Of Viscount Melbourne once more revived.
AMENDED VERSES.
S. M. Best, in a Yankee contemporary, suggests
the following problem :
SAINT OR SYREN?
One with luring lips and bewildering eyes—
That would thrill a saint in Paradise
Can turn my blood to a sea of fire,
Whose surging waves roll ever higher.
When with a wild delight 1 feel
Her passionate amis around'me steal,
1 lose in the fierce delicious flame
That burns my soul both honor and shame.
When she lays on my lips the dewy rose
Of her mouth, the madness my bosom knows
Is like some whirlwind's imperious force
That obstacles sweeps like chaff from its course.
And when with a voice like a cooing dove
She wooingly whispers her words of love,
I yield myself to her sweet caress
And forget all else in her loveliness.
Another, in whose calm eyes of blue
The glory of heaven glimmers thro’,
Can hush with a saintly glance my sighs
And quell the storms that from passion rise.
AVhen I meet her rapt angelic gaze
I feel as tho’ I stood face to face
With one who had seen the glory of God,
And my restless fever is quenched and awed.
At her kiss no electric thrill shoots thro’
My heart, but there rises before my view
A vision of high and holy things,
And I hear the flutter of angels’ wings.
At the touch of her cool, soft hand my blood
Grows calm like a spent, retreating flood,
And her voice, like a silver bell, recalls
My soul from the syren’s witching thralls.
Thus in the balance I waver ever,
Unable the soul and the sense to sever ;
Vet some day either will master me—
The saint or the syren—which shall it bo ?
A Bulletin bard prophesies :
The vision with hands so soft and cool
Will stand by you at the altar, fool ;
And after a year of angelic bliss
You will sigh for the old electric kiss.
Your Tabitha’s eyes of holy blue
And saintly glances will wearv you,
Until of the nuptial tie you tire'
And bolt for good with the girl of fire.


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES.
Tlio Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
moat celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
sell-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel oases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from ...»
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
G. B. Modini, of 602 George-street, Syd-
ney, has been appointed sole agent for Charles
Boswell, the celebrated gunniaker of 12(> Strand
London.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Use Bath O’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth.
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Artificial Teeth (high-class dentistry) at Reform
Fees. Full Set Vulcanite, £5; Gold and Vulca-
nite, £10; Gold, £l5. Nitrous Oxide Gas daily,
10s. fid. J. ,T. Marshall, Dentist. Only address—
-410 George-street, Sydney.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglls & Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Victorian Government are spending
their surplus like lords.
When Federation comes no man with a
foreign title, hereditary or other, must be our,
figurehead. • c * r '
What constitutes cheapness? The odd
halfpence saved and extorted from the toil of the
slave.—Baron Henry de Worms.
Coffee Palace Munro, M.P., says that the
future leaders of Australia will be-“cool-headed
men. ” And therefore not teetotallers.
The creditors of N.S.W. members of Par-
liament have just begun to discover that members’
State salaries cannot legally be “ attached.”
“ When the perfect union of the colonies
comes they will be the United States of Aus-
tralia. ”■—Bibbs (and we hope he’ll stick to it).
In submitting his federation scheme Parkes
talks in English, not in Australian. The man
who thinks in Australian speak in Australian.
Tn 1884 the total public debt of Victoria
was £27,526,000. The authorised debt is now
£43,200,000, of which six millions is as yet un-
spent. .
Sturdy Queensland leads once more. One
day MTlwraith; the next day Chief Justice
Lilley. And why ? Because the country, not the
city, is the nation.
One of the N.S.W. members who refused
to sign Parkes’address to Gladstone on his 80th
birthday owes all his allegiance to King William
of G. and I. memory.
“ House of Commons,” “ Governor-Gene-
ral,” “Privy Council,” “Dominion”—these are
Parkes’ Federation “ properties.” Do they savour
of the Republic or of the Empire ?
“In truth, Australian Independence is in
the air and in the hearts of men, and although no
man can foretell the hour of its birth, its advent
sooner or later is sure. ’’—Chief Justice Lilley.
From all appearances Sir Henry Parkes’
influence is strictly confined to New South Wales.
Whatever may be thought of him by after-dinner
speakers after dinner', they don’t appear to follow
his lead.
“ Another privilege enjoyed by peers is to
sit in courts of law with their hats on !” By the
way, we have not yet seen a travelling British peer
stroll into one of the Australian criminal courts
arrayed in a bell-topper.
And his name disappeared from the bill.
“My advice to my English countrymen
has been to ‘ Let well alone to cease prating
about ‘ our devoted, our ardent, our passionate
loyalty.’ If you are so sure of it, why twaddle
about it ?” —Chief Justice Lilley, of Queensland.
“ But legal (Imperial) Federation would,
if ever created, be the beginning of ths end—a
separation inevitably violent and unfriendly.
There would be a rupture because all experience
shows that Great Britain would then endeavour to
maintain the legal bond by military coercion, and
with' that show of right which legality gives to the
wrong. ” Chief Justice Lilley.
Dorn Pedro, whom the Republican
Brazilians have shipped off to Europe on an annuity
of £BO,OOO, expresses a hopeful view of the pros-
pects of the new Government, and says that .if
wisdom be exercised by its rulers its prosperity is
certain. Pedro is such a nice, good-humoured old
gentleman and takes his bad luck so pleasantly
thaChe probably means to run for President.
MMlwraith, in his interview with Parkes,
at Sydney, pointed out that all the colonies in the
Federal Council, including Queensland, had re-
fused to give it up and enter upon his own scheme :
that the present New South Wales Ministry hold
power on the narrowest of majorities ; that, if
Parkes won’t make a move to join in with the
Federal League, the N.S.W. Protectionists will,
and that, therefore, if the old man doesn’t hurry
up, he’ll stand no show to have a finger in the pie.
‘‘ Every serious thinker and the great body
of the working-men, who are, if they will, the real
rulers of the land, look steadily to the inevitable
and noble outcome of the Australian Republic.
The wise among us regard the Imperial Federation
League as an important ally of Republicans, be-
cause it has aroused the just and vigilant suspicion
of people that it and similar enterprises are
intended to impede and defeat the national aspira-
tions for independence.” —Chief Justice. Lilley.
Sir Julius Vogel, whom Australia picked
up out of the middle of the road, says lie favours
Federation, but only on Imperial lines. “ lie x-e-
-gai’ds the present movement as the forerunner of
the separation of the Australasian colonies from
Great Britain, and thinks it is highly essential
that the Ixnperial Government should at once
declare that they will forcibly prevent any such
separation.” The Bulletin lias made up a nice
little parcel for Vogel as a Christmas present. It
consists chiefly of a strait-waistcoat.
Major-General Edwards now says it is
absolutely untrue that he stated in Brisbane that
mJ,?'?J a e P° r * ed Wrongly to the British Govern-
X n lTT Bt F res P° n «ible government to
Western Austedw. “He had what he thought «
courteous conversation, not a press interview,
an&T WlO Wf)I n '° the insignia of a soldier,
SstoWh 1 fn llpP °'T C 7 U° be a gentleman. ” The
in aSfmL * Edward ? made was probably
interview ' n ,^ r because his Australian press
Imperialist W ° r ° a undor m he was necessarily an
nf Tn° S( l u A atfcer Armytage, a red-hot Tory
if uuder^fl-i IC ' Assembl y, seems to require cooling
dam . 11l P T P \ addres «es drivelling conun
( ? ij^ 6 tins to his beloved Argus When
ZlSr f M H ieSt^ 8 subjects Prepares the way
bbar W Majesty’s subjects to cease to
neai her ti ue allegiance, what is he ?” Why, he’s a
usefid member of society, Armytage, dear boy. And
fe* lckto yolU ’ “allegiance "
vom-sdf'ri 8 T e /f t - of date ’ 3™ will be finding
yourself a clashed traitor-to the Republic of An"-
mtriot Yo 3| must Be ft traitor before you area
traitor rge Y ashington was a shocking
Sir Graham Berry presided at the London
banquet to Hopetoun, surrounded by the ehtr of
StiffTu fins mind you, is Graham Berry,
ot the old Eastern Market, Melbourne, where he
used to spout Republicanism off a furniture-,
van. A Jaw was passed making it a crime for
erry and his firebrands to hold political meetings
near Parliament House. This law was revived
last week, when an open-air meeting in favour of
opening the Public Library on Sundays sent a
procession up to Parliament House. Principles
not men, must be the watchword of the coming
1 ederal Australian Republic. r J he men will sell
us nearly every time.
“ Among the N.S.W. members ofParlia-
Mr”V i ° a efuse Jf° , acce Pt Payment this session is
: ■ •1 ° . Sm. He intends to hand his remunera-
tion to institutions in his electorate.” Therefore
he draws it all the same, and, politically speaking’
W m p l * Bpend tl n e “ oue y to better advantage.
An M.P. is compelled by public opinion to give
a ceitam amount of money annually to local
charities, and so the wily
See, like the downy
Greer, will make national
political capital out of
his alleged refusal to draw
his screw, while making
local political capital out
of its expenditure in local
charities. See gets credit
for taking it and also
for not taking it. \Vhen
Mr. George Higinbotham
refused to accept his
salary as a member of
the ViotoriamLegislature
he was perfectly honest
in the matter—he never
drew it from the Treasury.
The peculiar manners
of “ Billy ” Patterson,
ex-Treasux-er of Queens-
land, and Mount Morgan
millionaire, who lately
attacked Sir Thomas
MTlwraith for “betray-
ing” the Ministry, are
well known in the
Northern colony. Wil-
liam is good tohxs friends,
and usually assumes an
appearance of bluff good-
fellowship, but he is
vindictive and merciless
to those who thwart him.
When chairman of a local
Divisional Board he was
famous in the Rock-
hampton district because
of Ins language. Subse-
quently when he reached
Parliamentary dignity ho
evoked this tart remark
from the then head of
the Government, Sir
Samuel Griffith : “It ap-
pears necessary to inform
the hon. member that he
is addressing the Queens-
land Legislature and not
the Divisional Boai’d of
which hg is Chairman.”
“Not the least
important sign of the
coming time,” says
Chief Justice Lilley, of
Queensland, “ is the fact
that at festive gather-
ings of the labour organ-
isations, whilst the toast
A HORSE OF ANOTHER COLOUR.
SPORT: “WHAT YOU THINK OF THE NOBLE ANIMAL,
JOHN?”
JOHN: “TWO MUCHEE NOBLE-HIM SELLEE ME STOLEN
FOWL LAST WEEK-NOW HIM A BOOKMAKER,
ALLE SAME GENTLEMAN.”
of ‘ The Queen ’ is courteously honoured, the
assemblage frequently breaks up with 1 three
cheers for the Australian Republic.’ ” Apropos of
this, the evening edition of the Sydney Morning
Herald sa>s ; —“ It is fair to say that such a case,
even as an isolated one, has very seldom come
under public notice. The ‘ Australian Republic ’
might receive cheers when proposed; but it is
almost never proposed. " Then let it always be
proposed in future; it will be cordially honoured
every time in any but a packed gathering. The
toast of the coming Republic was of rare occur-
ence until the Jubilee, when the Sydney daily
press without exception threw up its hat for the
prize-fighters and footballers and red-coats who
sought to gag the expression of Australian
National sentiment.
Dear Bulletin, — It is time the Trade and
Labour Societies in Australia were federated.
The Federation scheme of Sir Henry Parkes, as is
usual with him, is only “ much cry and little wool,
and it is too long to wait for practical results from
it. Let us have Federation and Independence
now in our time. If it needs a Cromwell or a
Washington, let us hunt him up, and soon - why
wait? The Federation of the workers of Aus-
tralia and the adoption of a common political
platform means Power. There is no reason why
every worker should not earn a pound a day.
With proper organisation we could have it, if we
had to go out on strike. We have kissed the rod
long enough. It is time we showed our breeding.
Let us make sure we are right ; then go ahead,
even as our fathers have done, but, thanks to them,
with far better opportunities.—K.D. November
10, 1889.
There was an old man of Brazil,
Who was boss of the country until
They told him to go,
Which he did, doncherknow,
BIT OF SCANDAL.
Our ladies’ man heard the following conversa-
tion between two young and good-looking ladies in
a suburban train yesterday : —First Lady; “That’s
a sad affair about Mrs. eloping with her hus-
band’s coachman. What could have been the
reason?” Second Lady : “ Don’t you know ? It's
the talk of the town. Her hubby refused to
furnish her with a bottle of the famous St. Louis
Lager Beer, and the coachman offered to supply
her wants. A reason weighty, strong and
effectual.”
Personal Items.
Griffith takes his holiday, if time can be
spared, in a trip to Western Australia.
Phil. Robinson has been declared a bank-
rupt. What’s the matter with the Princess ?
The good and long-suffering Emma Wan-
genheim has got rid of her wicked husband.
The German Ambassador to England has
re-married the American lady from whom he was
divorced some years ago.
Of the ten members of Council appointed
in 1852 to prepare the new Constitution for N.S.
Wales not one now lives.
Sir John Thurston, High Commissioner of
tlie Western Pacific, was at one time a photo-
grapher in Mudgee (X.S.W.)
Const r.'alive Kavanagh, who has neither
hands nor feet and who sat (in a bath-chair) in the
House of Commons from ’OB to ’BO, is dying.
The harmless old gentleman who until
recently figured as Emperor of Brazil, was within
two years of completing the Jubilee of his reign.
A marked feature in Parkes’ table-talk
while in Brisbane w r as his retailment of sultry
yarns. And every blessed one of them chestnuts !
In connection with the opening of the Cen-
tennial Hall it may be noted that of the Mayors
of Sydney prior to 18(55 but one, George Thornton,
is alive.
The new admiral of the Australian Station,
Lord Charles Scott, is of the bluest blood, has
arrived at the mature age of half a century, and is
as bald as an egg.
N.S. Wales has developed another “claim-
ant.” Mr. Stewart, of Guhldeal, claims the
Scotch Earldom of Caithness, and has commenced
suit to enforce his rights.
The recently-deceased Bishop of Birming-
ham, Dr. Ullathorne, of Australian fame, appears
to have died poor. His personalty was proved at
the moderate sum of £279 7s. Bd.
Some worthy Melbourne nobodies are
sending round the hat for a portrait in oils and a
marble statue to perpetuate the memory of that
unpleasant Tory, Sir William Stawell.
In a recent Mechanics’ Institute speech
Sir Henry Parkes said “that some books were not
only unfit to read, but unfit to burn.” And yet
no one likes a very giddy story better than this
very moral old gentleman.
Lord Hopetoun says that even when he
was a boy at school he took a great interest in the
British possessions abroad.” He used to look
for hours at Australia, on the map, and think
what a beautiful pink-coloured country it was, to
be sure.
How these teetotallers love one another !
The worthy Dow, Vic. Minister of Lands, was
about to confer certain timber-cutting rights upon
a temperance syndicate, when Jack Woods snorted
at the little aurangement and caused it to be
snuffed out.
As the Duke of Clarence was once sitting
to Northcote the painter, he asked the painter if
he knew the Prince Regent. “No,” was the
reply “Why,” said the Duke, “my brother
says he knows you. ” ‘ ‘ Oh, ” answered Northcote,
that s only his brag
When Mayor Harris, of Sydney, acceded
to office a couple of years ago, the Town Hall was
m its old chronic condition of Tammany and the
overdraft was just under £50,000. Mayor Harris
has completely wiped out the overdraft and has
made savings equal to £50,000 a year.
A Mr. Hake is to be imported from Eim-
land by Duncan Gillies as Government Inspector
of Explosives. Is this Mr. Egmont Hake, nephew
of nigger-slayer Gordon, for whom we sent out the
Soudan brigands ? If so, the Imperial Federa-
tion conspiracy continues to progress very nicely.
Still another! In the Ovens (Vic.)
Benevolent Asylum has been discovered one
Jeremiah Brown, now aged 97, who says he had
charge of a troop of horse at Waterloo. The
vV aterloo Cyclorama people have got hold of the
old man—who is genuine enough for any cyclo-
rdiinftf
John L. Sullivan, now running for Con-
&r®ss> began his electoral campaign at an hotel,
™ efe he insisted upon standing drinks all round,
i hen he sought a barber’s shop for a shave, and
brought one of his paws down upon a man’s head,
with the exclamation: “You little bald-headed
, I d like to slug you !”
The Tory cableman has Just asserted that
Parnell s wife is dying of starvation. This is
clumsy, as well as malicious. Only the other day
they told us by roundabout innuendo that Parnell
M r as living with another man’s wife. Parnell is
not married, and has therefore not a dying wife.
It is his mother who is ill.
Mad, stone wears a nineteen-inch collar,
made in one piece with his shirt, with 3J,-inoli
peaks. Sir William Haroourt’s linen tfiroat-
encircler is also nineteen inches, Morley's is
sixteen, the Speaker’s seventeen. Albert Victor
wears a fifteener known as the “jam pot”—it is
made qf fourfold linen in order to have the neces-
sary stiffness and is inches high at its lowest
point.
Treasurer M‘Millan at the Sydney Daily
Telegraph sprea'd said that no newspaper should
be profane. And yet during his speech he gave
utterance to the expression, “ God knows ” several
times. However, we are sure the Deity won’t
object to being treated a little familiarly by the
MacMilhon now that the latter is a colleague of
t arkes and a high officer of the N.S.W. Foreign-
trade gang.
Mr. A. W. Stirling, to whom Chief Jus-
tice Lilley’s now famous Republican letter was
addressed, is a South Australian by birth and a
barrister by profession. His sister is married to
Mr. Ingram, proprietor of the Illustrated
London News. Mr. Stirling, some few years ago,
published a book called “ The Never Never Land "
■ much of which Was obviously inspired by con-
versations with the clever Pritchard Morgan.
It is cabled that De Witt Tahnage’s church
in New York has been struck by lightning. We
knew that a thunderbolt would fall at last on the
man who wrote the weekly sermons for the'SvnxEv
Mail. In Talmage’s church people applaud just
as they do in theatres, and the pastor probably
thought the thunderbolt, when it hit his show, was
was only an extra-loud clap. Or perhaps he
thought that the gods were exasperated at the
playing of the fellow who leads his choir with a
cornet.
The old nobility again. Lord Hinton has
for some years been earning his living with a
barrel-organ in the London streets to draw atten-
tion to his alleged wrongful treatment by his
father, Earl Poulett, whom he accuses of unjustly
disinheriting him and refusing to maintain him in
his rightful position as heir to the title and estates.
Poulett, who long endured the organ-playing un-
moved, has at last been roused to take steps in his
own defence, and has instituted legal proceedings
by which he hopes to prove that the claim of the
noble instrumentalist to recognition as his lawful
heir cannot be maintained.
Deacon,sfield wrote one of his last novels
at the residence of Mr. Henry Hope, Deepdene,
Surrey, whose daughter became Duchess of New-
castle. Mr. and Mrs. Hope lived together for
many years without being legally married, but
when their daughter became engaged to the Duke
of Newcastle, they thought it desirable to conform
to the proprieties and were privately married.
.Shortly afterwards the daughter’s marriage took
place and when during the festivities one of the
guests spoke of the general delightfulness of
weddings, the young Duchess innocently replied,
“ I haven’t had much experience of weddings as
the only other one I have been'at was'that of my
father and mother.”
Should the Prince of Wales die soon,
which is not at all unlikely, the Princess of Wales’s
income would be lamentably small. It is being
asked why the Queen does not appoint Albert
Edward Prince-Regent, an act which would
render the financial future of the Princess com-
paratively safe. Some 20 years ago, while the de-
pression which followed the death of the Prince
Consort was still weighing heavily upon her.
Queen Victoria did speak freely of abdication,
and, some years later, the possibility of such a
step at the end of fifty years’ reign was again
mooted. But latterly she has quite given up all
ideas of the kind, and lets those around her under-
stand that she means to grip the sceptre until it
falls from her hand.
Next to Beach’s Hotel in Pitt-street,
Sydney, are the offices of Mr. Clayton, solicitor.
Fifty years ago they were the offices of George
Robert Nichols, a native of the colony, a leading
solicitor (having the dual privileges of barrister
and attorney), and first Auditor-General under
Responsible Government. In this building, half
a century ago, might be seen dusting out the
offices, arranging law-books and briefs, and
mending the pens, a sturdy square-headed
lad, to whom Nichols gave “ articles.” The
youth was admitted as an attorney in 1840,
plunged into politics, made himself felt, left the
attorneys, and got palled to the Bar (1856), and,
after a brilliant political career in 1873, ascended
the Supreme Court bench as Sir James Martin,
Chief Justice! Some of the old furniture still
adorns Mr. Clayton’s office; in the tables may be
seen the initials of the future Chief Justice, cut,
no doubt, in boyhood’s days while dreaming of
future greatness, ;


/ Ca//fc( u./>ep tie ?ny/er /f>
' - ' //j a pun//*? */ a
Of cTo<z/j- Z<x /fr f
J - ov.
fiPMIAL
i
/«
Ih/i l der ho* *> ’ X
till] adrto] *«■ °y / <
/’of 7 ' /
/fir eT '^>'
4r ,
'Cc' \
- V '
sj' I
A/
,k
I >t\
Vi
% \
t
* M
■ M
\
IMn
i
njf kiijf h|a\if-
v too. -
\ by tye grace
i'f}^latfd )
\
\%u
Vfc 5
))
=5, **'* '*-
,fW
Ual& r-ARKFsr-
"Vr
ì
77 L'
fyfc&U2X</y. —777^77%^ mj7m~ *a~
oU&Cn*Ct*f /&7 /fa**S4~ U4* ■• 'z
y/Z/A/r ToTiSV
■y, *
as&<x
THINGS IN GENERAL.


“The Catholic body have the security and welfare of the country as much at heart as their fellow-cotizens, and so far from it being the aim of the Catholic body to assail
And destroy the public schools, the public might rest assured that the Catholic community was too much interested in the public schools to desire their destruction, for there
Were some 25,000 children of Catholic parents reveiving unstruction in these schools.”-Cardinal Moran.
THE KYARDINAL: “ THERE, MY LITTLE MAN! I CAN’T PREVENT THE POLITICAINS FROM SETTING UP THIS SCARECROW, BUT I CAN SHOW YOU
WHAT IT IS MADE OF AND HOW LITTLE THERE IS TO BE FRIGHTENED AT.”


Sof tcm t'cafticv
CnXCA SoXift aTD
smi*? cA-a-cfi^.
i
OXao tfit
(*t tiki turn it
i’vcylt t
11 of co-ci Ci!' of
B. WHEELER & CO.
('larnifo Slroel, SYDNEY.
' r .
4m
ING d)0
Celebrated
m
SUBVED
hm
qn] iiiriiT
iw®'
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
n'AVK .Trsr Opbnrti a Magnificent; Let of
Also of the wonderful Vlotoi
Now Pianos from the celebrated Makers,
Victor Pianos at £45 and Eatoy Organa
Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Bhthner. Collard, and other
No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
The Mr. Cohen who is eternally shadowing
all the good-looking women in George-street, Syd-
ney, had better stop the game. This is one of
those cowardly libels that are perfectly true —and
perfectly safe. We hate papers that invade the
sanctity of what Mr. Cohen privately does in
public.
# * * '■
We saw a so-called “ ambulance ” rattling
along a main Sydney street the other day. What
a jolting such a vehicle must give a wounded man !
In many European cities years ago you could hire
for ordinary driving cabs tired with indiarnbber,
after the fashion of bicycle-wheels. It would not
cost much to fit with indiarnbber the wheels of
the Sydney ambulances. “ Rattle his bones over
the stones ” still retains much of its force.
** ’ #
Curious coincidences ! A week or two
ago, a working journalists’ association was formed
in Sydney, at a meeting presided over by Mr. W.
J. Tarplee, of the S.M. Herald. A few days
afterwards Mr. Tarplee, who has been for 20
years an able and energetic servant of the Herald
office, is dispossessed of his position—or at any
rate told that his position as leader of the staff is
to be abolished and that
only a subordinate post is
thereafter at his dis-
posal. Not long ago a
journalists’ club was
formed at Melbourne,
and the man who pre-
side! at the inauguration
was a member of a staff
of a daily paper. He
parted company with his
“proprietor” in less than
a month.
* * *
Whether or not the
occurences just referred
to have or have not any
connection with the in-
stitution in Sydney and
Melbourne of reporters’
trades-unions, it is quite
certain that the big news-
paper-proprietors regard
with the utmost aversion
all schemes for the con-
solidation of working-
journalistic interests. On
the other hand, the chief 1
proprietors themselves
are now banded together
with a view of maintain-
ing thorough ascendancy
over the reporters. For
example, a reporter who
under certain frequently -
oecuring and by no means
discreditable circum-
stances, leaves one daily
paper in one colony is
debarred, by virtue of an
agreement subsisting be-
tween the proprietaries,
from obtaining work on
the staff of another daily
paper in another colony.
It is just about time for I
the newspaper - men to
combine. If they do, they
can count on the public
sympathy.
It is now freely asserted that Lady Loch,
while visiting the Pans Exhibition, saw the
diamond necklace now her property, and, aware
that a presentation was intended, declared that if
she had the right of choice that she would look no
further. This statement was conveyed to Mel-
bourne, and thus is explained the obstinate deter-
mination of those “in the know ” to place the
task of selection in the hands of Lady Lytton.
* » #
The Melbourne morgue-keeper and his
good lady seem to be sober, matter-of-fact indivi-
duals. with no sense of the sublime in humour and
no spirit of “ wholesome fun ”in their hearts. Just
as the shades of night were falling on the 14th
inst. a man, driving a with sample-
eases, pulled up at this same Melbourne Morgue
under the impression that such a snug, hospitable-
looking edifice must be a pub. The keeper’s wife,
standing outside, loomed through the dusk in the
semblance of a landlady, so the traveller enquired
of her whether there was anybody about who
would bait his horse in the stable while he himself
attacked some light refreshment at the bar.
Whereutxm the Morgue-keeper’s wife —merely
asking the weary traveller to wait a minute while
she fetched the gate key—“communicated her
suspicions ” to her husband, and also to a couple
of policemen who happened to have just brought a
bnna-Hdc customer in the form of a drowned lad.
And the dunderheaded “coppers,” unable to
grasp this grandest joke on record, arrested the
weary traveller and baited him at the police-
station, where he was discovered to be a hardened
offender named Jack Dixon. Poor Jack had only
recently completed “ twelve months,” during
which time the new and inviting morgue, so easily
mistaken for a whisky-shop, had sprung up, to be
the means of his undoing. Here endeth a romance
gone wrong.
* * *
But, Jehosophat ! What gruesome larks
they might have had with Jack! How easy
’t were for the Morgue-keeper to walk Jack into
his own private sitting-room, on the pretence that
it was the bar-parlour, and then tempt the gen’l’-
man with creature comforts. Jack might ask the
“landlord” to join him in a drink or two, after
which the landlord would set ’em up again. At
this juncture, what more natural than for Mrs.
Morgue-keeper to bustle in with the news that the
horse had dropped into a peaceful slumber, adding
that it seemed cruel to wake the animal, and
wouldn’t the gen’l’man let them make him up a bed
forthenight ? A little dropof laudanum—or a pinch
of chloral in the next “ shout ” and Jack would be
ready for one of those twelve clean marble beds in
the large dormitory of the Melbourne Morgue
Hotel. Other lodgers might be there, sleeping,
O ! so soundly, but if J ack had enough sense
left to suggest —“I shay, lanlor, lots o’
f’lers in thish room a’ready,” the landlord
might conscientiously declare that none of them
snored, or walked in their sleep. And Jaok, with
a drunken “ goonightall ” to the adjacent lodgers,
would start dreaming the happy hours away, un-
troubled by the rats which, attracted by the
novelty of a warm body, played at leap-frog on
his chest. In the early meriting a fine spray of
water would be turned upon Jack’s face (for the
Morgue lodgers are invariably treated to this cold
douche), and then he would sit up, like a giant
refreshed, and glance curiously at his bedroom
mates. One can fancy Jack exclaiming “ lazy
beggars!” as he saw f them all slumbering away,
same as ever, while their respective sprays
plashed gently into half-opened eyes, or mouths.
- \ pj •
V\) 1 1 (i a rfy s+ o
s^^^-t^^ CP " rcU,;S j/oes^oM
Amazed at this unnatural drowsiness, .Tack would
presently tumble off his slab and go from lodger to
lodger, shouting that it was time to get up. After
shaking one or two of them, perhaps, Jack would
come to the conclusion that they were a queer lot
Sway, almost as queer as that other lot of
jers—unknown and unclaimed—whose photo-
graphs are preserved in the hotel as memorials of
their visits. If he came across a person bereft of a
head, or without a trunk worth speaking of, Jack
might begin to suspect that he had got the jim-
jams again—but it’s useless to speculate upon the
magnificent possibilities which were nipped in the
bud by arresting Jaok in the manner aforesaid.
* # *
A West Australian woman boldly urges in
the press that, as servants are so scarce in her pro-
vince that every wife is the slave of her husband,
each man should be allowed to have two wives in
order that the work may be divided. “ The more
I think of my plan for preventing the present whole-
sale destruction of good wives now going on, the
more I am convinced,” she says, “ of the soundness
of the state of affairs, in this respect, which existed
in the clays of Abraham and Jacob, both of whom
were quite as good as we are, and evinced, in a
very practical manner, their belief in women bear-
ing one another’s burdens. ” Phil. Robinson, of
London Sunday Times, who knows a thing or
two about matrimonial infelicity, here remarks :
“ Imagine the feelings of a man on hearing his
indolent wife coolly say, ‘ Richard, my dear, you
must marry another kitchen hand. I have had
to help Mary nearly the whole afternoon with her
work !’ It must not be forgotten that (of course)
the wife would select her husband’s helpmates.”
* * #
It is cabled that the Earl of Euston, heir
to the Dukedom of Grafton, has taken criminal
proceedings for libel against the North London
Press, for alleging that lie was implicated in the
scandal recently exposed in connection with a
West End club. The Earl of Euston is the giddy
youth who married a barmaid and has ever since
been trying to divorce her without success. For
years he was junior judge’s associate in the South
Australian Supreme Court, and left the colony
when his father came in for the dukedom. The
Earl, who is now 41, may yet have the pleasure of
seeing that little barmaid of his Duchess of
Grafton. As matters stand, she is a real live
countess,
# # #
How very characteristic it is of British
Tory justice to find that the editor indicted at the
instance of the titled barmaid-proprietor aforesaid
has been clapped into prison and refused bail,
while Lord Somebody Somerset and other mag-
nates who are up to their necks in filth have been
allowed to run away.
iF
A Melbourne young lady has followed her
hastily-married and unprincipled American hus-
band to Chicago, where she handed him over to
justice as a bigamist, and an English housemaid,
married to the “ missus’s’’-son, who was shipped
off to Australia for a few years,' has received from
him the following letter ;
Dear Emma, —1 have returned all well, hut without any
money, so 1 find I am not able to come and see you.. In
fact, to tell you the truth, 1 am tired of you, and the best
thing you can do is to forget me. Vou go your way and I
go mine. I have come to the conclusion that it is best we
should not meet again, as 1 know 1 should never be happy
with you. So, good-bye.—Yours, &e., Spencer Ccxliffb.
A girl may in any case find herself deceived, but
it is far better to marry the devil you know than
the devil you don’t know. No woman should ever
marry a foreigner or any other man on the mere
strength of his own statements. There are hun-
dreds of enterprising gentlemen from abroad who
have wives and families not only in Australia, but
in one or two other countries beside. The case of
trie well-known and much-married musician who
was about to marry the daughter of the rich Mel-
bourne hotelkeeper, and who was “ given away ”
by his own Consul only a day or two before the
date fixed for his little act of bigamy, should be
an enduring caution to the community.
* # *
Cupid is alleged to be responsible for Sir
George Yerdon’s journey to the Cape in company
with the Lochs. They do say that the young
ladies’ governess will be returning to Melbourne
in a few months time as the second Lady Verdon.
Which reminds one that Lady V. premiere was
only recently gathered in.
* * *
£32,000, not a penny more, was the
contractor’s charge for repairs and alterations to-
Melbourne Government House. No very extensive
alterations have been made, and there was nothing
much to repair that anybody could discover. So
the enterprising gentlemen who revelled in this
nice little order were getting about £1)00 a day for
labour, paint, whitewash and et ccteras.
* * #
Inhabitants of Hunter’s Hill, a fashion-
able suburb of Sydney, rolled up to the number
of 200 the other evening to protest against a local
alderman’s tyrannical interference with the prac-
tice of steam-whistling by the Lane Cove ferrry-
boats. The question locally excited such burning
interest that it was considered necessary to have a
force of jrolice at the meeting. This choice assem-
blage don’t consider that an ordinary ship’s bell is
good enough—in an age when you can buy a reli-
able clock for five shillings— to apprise them of
steamer-time. They want to be whistled and
shrieked for with a fog-horn every time. Little
they trouble whether the dying man wriggles on
his couch as the shrieking “ steam siren ” racks
his brain ; they like whistles, and whistles they
are going to have by fair means or foul. The
Bulletin hopes that the authorities will provide
the larrikin inhabitants of Hunter’s Hill with
enormous cat-calls and shift'them all bodily over
to Cockatoo Island, where they may be able to
whistle and curse and otherwise enjoy themselves
without racking the nerves of the civilised and the
sick. It is evident that the spirit of the Cabbage-
Tree Mob has not yet died out at Hunter’s Mill.
* # #
Melbourne is ripe for another nuisance.
A ghostly-sounding peal of bells is hung up at St.
Paul’s Cathedral, in the heart of the city. Mel-
bournians hoped they had squelched the bell
nuisance. The great churches of the Presby-
terians, Baptists, and Independents, close
together in Collius-street, do without bells. So
do Wesley Church, Chalmers, and St. Peter’s. To
be sure, St. Patrick’s’and St. James’s-have peak,
but they are heard seldom enough. It is recog-
nised that now world cities can almost do without
such thunders as emanate from the Bourdon of
Notre Dame, immortalised in Hugo’s “ Esmer-
alda.” Dickens wrote a pathetic essay in “ House-
hold Words ” on the awful terrors of the bells. They
are not required to summon congregations. They
are merely hung, in modern days, to torture dying
people and annoy and excruciate the infidels. In
St. Kilda there is an atrocious bell, heard for
miles, accustomed merely to give one tong at a
time, the most horrible thing for the nerves that
can be iiwented. It is a moan, as if the bell was
always in pain. Melbourne’s fourth peal is being
hung at the Post-office, to play “We won’t go
home till morning,” and all those things. All
very nice to a stranger, but how does a man like
it when he is chained to the area of the shadow
of the tower ? Why should one man have the
power of inflicting his bell-curse upon another?
An Adelaide shareholder has just been
gaoled for six months for converting to his own
use rive original Broken Hill shares. When a
milkman or a grocer’s clerk “converts to his own
use’’'pence—in proportion to the pounds here in-
volved—he often gets as many years as this man
received months. A Sydney baker’s driver got
“four months’ hard” last week for having em-
bezzled under £4 10s. in small sums, then
‘ ‘ mercy was considered to be extended to him on
account of his wife’s delicate health.” Moral:
Avoid'small swindles.
# * *
When Andrews was coronially found guilty
of wilful murder, he arose to address the Court.
“Will your worship,” he said, “allow me a few
minutes? I wish to place on record my high
appreciation ” Here the coroner pulled hiu
up short. As an example of the ruling passion
the preliminary sentence of his intended speech i.
simply beautiful.
Evangelist Yarley
continues to allow those
who openly differ from
him to be violently fired
out of his meetings by the
pious bullies who rally
round his flag. Yarley
invites questions, and by
calling for votes of ap-
proval challenges dissent,
but when a particularly
nasty question is pro-
pounded the inquisitive
infidel generally goes out
on his ear with a dull
thud ; and as the lambs
pick up the fragments of
the unbelievers collar-
bone they remark that
Brother Yarley, like unto
theScriptures,must not bu
too literally interpreted.
# * *
The story goes that
in a certain Patagonian
town there are eleven
public buildings, all built
within a few years. Ten
of these, including the
gaol, were erected by a
contractor who thought it
worth while to be civil to
the Government clerk of
works. Their walls now
yawn wearily and very
soon they must all tumble
down. The eleventh
building was erected by
a pig-headed mule of a
man, who stood in his
own light by treating the
Government Inspector
in a frigid and uncom-
promising maner. It is
the finest building in the
whole place, and hasn’t a
crack in it from the slates
down. Also, it nearly
ruined the contractor.
The Melbourne Corporation baths appear
to be public conveniences for getting drowned.
# # #
Mr. Gosling and Miss Williams, of Mel-
bourne, narrowly escaped the fate of Mr. and
Mrs. Alfred Lammle. They were in a fair way
■Ho get married through a matrimonial agency,
when Gosling discovered that Miss W. hadn’t got
her advertised £lOOO and a villa, and the lady
tumbled to the fact that Gosling wasn’t exactly
the gentleman “with means” she had thought
him to be. So they parted, and now poor Gosling
goes tearing around the town swearing something
awful by yon stars, because his deceptive vision
is showing ten tons of amorous correspondence to
his friends. Ducky and Gosling were both of
them tolerably “downy,” and we wish them
better luck next time.
# # #
Dear Bulletin, Dargaville, on the
Wairoa River, N.Z., is a muddy, rum-soaked
shrine of Bacchus. The commerce of the place,
such as it is, centres round the exchange of kauri-
gum for grog of more than usual potency, and the
“ predominant note ” is a universal sense of get-
ting home just before the milk ; and even the very
gurglings of the local streamlets suggest Nature in


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 - KING STREET -90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years ... ... 9A per cent.
12 Months 8| per cent.
6 Months ... ... 71 per cent.
3 Months ... ... 5| per cent.
f> per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
If You Have
CONSUMPTION
BRONCHITIS
SCROFULA
COUGH OR COLD
Throat Affection
Wasting of Flesh
Or any Disease where the Throat and Dungs
are Inflamed, lack of Strength or Nerve
Rower. you can be Relieved and Cured by
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
PURE COD P LIVER OIL
With Hypophosphites.
Palatable as Milk*
Ask for Scott’s Emulsion, and let no CX»
planation or solicitation induce you to accept
a substitute.
Sold by all Chemists,
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
Robertson’s Whisky.
£2OO FRIZES.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
AS FOLLOWS:
16 of A 5 each, 35 A 3, ami 70 Al,
Pamphlets from the Agents, AT .T .T 1
& 00., x- CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
a state of hiccough. The deep, muddy river flows
through the town, and all too often carries away
on its foetid bosom the alcoholised corpse of some
poor victim of the rum-god. So common, how-
ever, has death by drowning become, that the re-
port of such an occurrence arouses but a languid
interest amongst all except the undertakers, who
are at once on the alert, there being an unwritten
law recognised on the river that the finder of a
“ drowney undertakerese technical term—shall
have the emoluments attaching to the burial.
“ Ah,” said an old undertaker who had the repu-
tation of being one of the most assiduous and
successful corpse-hunters on the Wairoa, “ it’s
the Dargaville rum as does it! an’ a proper-sea-
soned corpus ’angs together like a darned great
’am.” Then he took a long whiff at his pipe, and
oracularly proceeded : “ Them’s the stiffs I likes
to bury! Them there teetotal Te Kopuru
corpuses they goes to pieces a’most as soon as they
rises, an’ that’s werry bad for business; young man,
werry !” “ How so, uncle?” I asked (all under-
takers are called uncle on <the Wairoaj— “ Well,
ye see, continued the ancient, ‘‘. there’s nothin’ in
findin’ a’ stiff as hasn’t left, sorrowin’ friends be-
hind, an’ even where there is sorrowin’ friends
them sorrowin’ friends won’t spend much on—
the —the hobsequies—that’s the funeral, you know
of a corpus as can’t keep his ’ead on for nine days
and allows the sharks to Cop out with 3m arm or a
leg. Gimme a good jinoojne fu'm-soaked Dar-
gaville corpus with a sorrowin’ friend or two on
dry land and I’d sooner ’avo the buryin’ of it than
Ted Mitchelson or old Dargaville hisself or the
chairman of the .’Obson County Council.”.; This
reminiscence, if it does nothing else, shows that it is
possible to speak well of the “ undesirable” on other
than merely nil mortuis, nisi bonum principles. But
so-long for the present.—Tim: Pikipi.
* » *
Mrs. Todd, of N.S. Wales, has been pour-
ing forth the woes of her “class” to a London
newspaper in this strain “ Women whose cul-
tured minds and artistic temperaments fit them
for a life of refinement and the dedication of their
talents (!) to art or literature, find their hands
tied, their spirits saddened, and their aspirations
crushed by a ceaseless round of worry and vexa-
tion and wearisome efforts to make up for all the
deficiencies of their so-called ‘servants.’” Inci-
dentally we may mention that plenty of poets
clean their own boots, and thousands of ladies,
possessing artistic temperaments, have to manage
without any servants at all. However, we feel
deeply for poor Mrs. Todd, and trust that this
great social evil will soon be remedied as she pro-
poses, by the shipping over of “batches of at least
50 or 100 girls at a time ” from dear old Hingland.
For, as Mrs. Todd generously admits,'“ even un-
trained girls (from the Hinglish slums) would be
an improvement on the insolent, half-trained
colonials, if willing and obliging.”
A man named Finn, who had previously
served eleven years’ penal servitude and received
25 lashes, was again sentenced for assault to rob
at Sydney Quarter Sessions the other day. And yet
there is a superstition that no man who has been
flogged ever again ventures to commit a floggable
offence.
* * *
A Russian nobleman is alleged to be carry-
ing his departed wife about with him in the form
of a gigantic ring. A Berlin chemist condensed
-he lady’s mortal remains into this bauble, which
is of a dull-greenish colour, traversed by red veins.
A certain young man who until lately held
a snug and fashionable official position in N S. W.,
and who has removed himself to another such
position in another colony, via a third fashionable
““r«*?;
Australia hUar-Lder to an yjuth witt
§JgtfetdajfdT ‘ °f,!'T??'l 'n S m‘.l l h
t°hfc“ bed N “ 1 “S STf WwSr
sea he hurf not vJr o-ot tnotV ° - f s P ltd at
either He had been d m 7 rnanne f r , s
’ , bad been holding back an ace with
wTr M
ty"?ik°7ycSfng
T
W orld Wan V Hond came heW** 1 BmCe >
eves the foot of the W«e nnoeafd I ® ve^ one ®
the floor to fall in and then Vhe hm-rHfloLuD and
was broken bv the loud deenha nil t i L i n^ftf 8
onT v man b! the IS V; • of th f
it out Pl 7 who was Vlllam enou ? h
#
... , .
iViemo. tor tlie unregonerate. Judge Win-
deyer, of Sydney, last week announced that he had
“Pty elected one Wiggins as co-respondent in a
divorce case on the ground that Wiggins had gone
awa y after being served with a writ,
* * *
a„ i „ i „ ~
actor, who has been representing a
succession of heroes, at Melbourne Royal, with
gradually diminishing effect, is not married. He
m aPe s ed an xious that the story of his single
blessedness shall resound throughout the length
HAIL HOPETOUN!
T^V-s)>t« y
us £» (iverj please
and breadth of Australia, the maidens, widows
and other unappropriated ladies of which country
are herewith exhorted to open wide their pink
shell-like ears and drink in the glad tidings.
The gentleman in question, we repeat, is a single
man and a bachelor, who has not yet taken into
himself a wife, and .we cordially invite every
reader to diffuse this fact among his friends and
relatives down to the third and fourth generations.
We would further add that he is a rather young
man, with a Roman cast of nose and a most
superior smile. Ordinarily he holds his head
a-tilt and gazes heavenwards, as though in com-
mune with the angels. On warm sunny days he
sports a straw thatch. Let us adore him.
* # #
The female petitioners in the divorce cases
that are now running the Sydney evening papers
into several editions nightly, state, with wonderful
unanimity, that—“ Soon after marriage my hus-
band took to drink.” No woman was ever yet a
conscious humorist.
* * #
A defaulting “co-partner,” who “went
up ” last week, in Sydney, for three years, lost
the best part of the loot over a game of billiards
to a certain “ show ” agent who favoured Australia
with a visit a little while ago.
# # #
The diamond presentation to Lady Robin -
son (who, somehow, emerged from her retirement
at Bowral immediately on the Lochs leaving) duly
came off at Melbourne Government House last
week. It was only a very little presentation—
just a diamond crescent and bangle—but as a token
of “ affection and esteem ” it was intensely touch-
ing and so forth. Lady Clarke read a string of
harmless tarradiddles, described as a “ beautifully-
worded address, ” and Sir William Wobinson re-
turned thanks in one of his “ happy little speeches.”
Lady R., it appeared from this expression of
gratitude, is the apple of Sir William’s eye, the joy
of his heart, and the comfort of his mature middle
age. How nice ! There were some smart gowns
worn at the small and select function. Lady
Robinson lighted up a crimson brocade and velvet
with her new diamonds. Lady Clarke delivered
the beautiful address in a Erenoh-grey brocade,
with front of palest rose crepe and art-green
edging. Mr. M. H. Davies (“Mrs. Speaker”)
supported the occasion in rose-silk with green
panels, and other ladies of the Clarke clan were
nicely fixed up. Afterwards dear Lady Robinson
held her last reception, and her chequered reign in
Melbourne was practically ended.
“ Three young American ladies, strangers
in Sydney, wish to correspond with three gentle-
men, to act as escorts ; references required. Ad-
dress Boston, General Post-office, Sydney.” The
Yankee cigarette business, we may here say, is
going ahead in Sydney.
* * *
An English Tory paper solemnly reminds
“ Society ” of the tremendous debt it owes Tummy
for “his great efforts to overthrow prejudices.”
For instance :
One of his favourite ideas was to cut down the length
of our dinners, to have fewer dishes, and shorter waits
between the courses. But those who give dinners did not
take to the idea, and we still sit from eight of the clock
until half-past ten at the oftentimes dreary board. But
if the Prince failed in this, he has secured us the
cigarette with our nuts; and when we consider how
tremendous and unflinching is the Queen’s opposition
to tobacco in every form, we should really be grateful to
him.
Great Scott! what next ?
* * #
We don’t publish the letter beneath on
account of its orthography, etymology, or syntax,
but simply because the writer puts his honest hoof
down on one of the abuses of this banquet-ridden
country :
Editor Tamworth Advocate. Deer Sur, —I see your
account of the opening of the Mount Sheebar Mine and
the fuss thay maid abowt it. Such a krowd. Billee
Dowel was like a sheap’s hed, all Jor. And forgets
the time as he sold up a hunfortnit famillee down at
Bowlin Allee, and Polly’s pianerwent for ten bob. Wyman
Brown, too, as I often seed with a patch on his moleskins,
skvvatted down by the creak near Sam Purks, a panning
out a dish of durt. Brown forgits the time when he was
glad to get a pennywait or two. With the exoepshun of
one or two the old diggers had to stand aside wile the
swells blower! about wot they are as iggerant of as thay ar
of thair prares. Billee Dowel sed he often skaled the
Hanging Rok. The Rok is skaly enuff now. Praps he
hed better skale it agin. Wy the blazes thay couldn’t
start work without bringing a crowd of outsiders around
to gorge and swill is wot puzzles yures truly,- —Fossicker.
Nundle, Nov. 7th, 1889.
* * *
The most comprehensive mercantile cable
code in the world is being compiled by Mr. J.
Stringer Gill for Sydney’s biggest retail business
firm.
* * *
The geography of British New Guinea has
been started by Sir William Macgregor. The
R.G.S. (England) publishes in its “ Proceedings ”
the names and heights of summits in the Owen
Stanley range. The list, of course, begins with
“ Mount Victoria.” Sir W. M‘G., being a new-
made knight, had of necessity to plaster that
much-honoured name on the top of New Guinea
in token of his loyalty, and in perpetuation of the
eternal fitness which brackets a squat woman of
4ft. lOin. with a noble mountain over thirteen
thousand feet high. It helps also to introduce
loyalty to the natives who just now would pop her
corpulent Gracious into the soup with a chuckle
of infinite content and a yearning for two or three
other members of the same family. The long list
of mountains also sheds honor on Albert Eddard,
Knutsford, Service, M‘llwraith, Griffith, Gillies,
and others, and finishes with ’Bnry Parkes at a
comparatively tin-pot altitude of only 8000 feet.
Thus is the beautiful island already handicapped.
Victoria at one end and Parkes at the other. Rule
Britannia on top and the Beauteous Terrorist at
the bottom; with the world, the flesh, the devil,
and Maegregor’s gallows punctuating the interval,
and only a few missionaries on the coast to grab
the lost souls who will try to escape from that
stricken land when the official intimation of the
outrage reaches them.
Thus Edith M. Thomas :
Here chimes in the nasty Bulletin’s bard
There was only one parson implicated in
that horrible West End scandal. The Church
was ever tricky at escaping through a back
window.
* * *
Mr. J. S. Horsfall, Rupert Carington’s
prospective father-in-law, is one of the largest
station-owners of New South Wales. During the
last few years he has bought three stations in
Riverina viz., Widgiewa, Kerarbury, and Mo-
molong, and their aggregate price was not far
short of £750,000. Among other delicate offices
held by Mr. Horsfall is that of confidential adviser
to “ Locky ”, M‘Bean, the millionaire squatter and
well-known philanthropist of Moulamein, N.S.W.
The Bulletin regrets to hear that “ Locky ” is at
present very unwell, but it trusts that he will be
sufficiently recovered to be able to join in the
mazy waltz and otherwise shake a frisky leg during
the pastimes attendant upon Rupert’s marriage.
Sydney advertisement :—
■plROZEN' MUTTON.—Any persons wishing to pre-
sent their friends in the old country with a few
SHEEP or LAMBS can arrange for same on applica-
tion to
O ! Mrs. Todd, your cultured mind
Must be unstrung by worry—
One cannot live a life “ refined ”
Who has to make a curry ;
Distressing ’tis to think of you
Deserted by your minions,
A-wrestling with an Irish stew
And splicing up the inions.
O ! Mrs. Todd, your tears of grief
E’en now, we guess, are raining
Upon some vulgar ribs of beef,
Or “greens ” in course of straining ;
Wethinks we hear you groaning o’er
The stockings you are darning,
Or shrieking as you sweep the floor,
When Latin you’d be laming.
There’s little chance to study French
Or practice songs in Spanish,
When, anyday, your sarving wench
May pack her trunk and vanish ;
No sooner have you got a book
For mental recreation
Than, sure enough, the saucy cook
Throws up her situation.
You cultivate a taste for art,
But to your sorrow bitter
You have to go and bake a tart,
Or make an apple fritter ;
Instead of dashing off a verse
You’re fooling with the gravy—
Ah. culchaw’s everlasting curse
Upon the native slavey !
But, madam, if your lips are curled
At thoughts of honest labour—
Are servants born into the world
To wait upon their neighbour ?
Most women are as bright as you
(’Tis really time you knew it),
And when there’s “ servants’ work ” to do,
Great Scott ! they go and do it.
SILVER AND GOLD.
Farewell, my little sweetheart,
Now fare you well and free ;
I claim from you no promise,
You claim no vows from me.
The reason why ?—the reason
Right well we can uphold —
I have too much of silver,
And you’ve too much of gold !
A puzzle, this, to worldlings,
Whose love to lucre flies,
Who think that gold to silver
Should count as mutual prize !
But I’m not avaricious,
And you’re not sordid-souled ;
I have too much of silver,
And you’ve too much of gold !
Upon our heads the reason
Too plainly can be seen—
I am the Winter’s bond-slave,
You are the Summer’s queen.
Too few the years you number,
Too many I have told ;
I have too much of silver
And you’ve too much of gold.
You have the rose for token,
I have dry leaf and rime 5
I have the sobbing vesper,
Y ou morning bells at chime.
I would that I were younger
(And you grew never old),
Would had I less of silver
But vou no les? of gold !
Be cautious, little sweetheart—
Let not the “ ancient ” slide;
Than young man’s slave ’twere better
To be his grandpa’s pride,
And ere your heart be stolen
Take care to get it sold—
His silvery head don’t matter
His wallet’s full of gold.
THE HOPETOUN BOOM.
Hopetonn has come, with his horses and carriages,
Heeland retainers, and sad-looking Turk,
Aides-de-camp, hunting for fortunate marriages
(Flunkeys who wear a superior smirk)—
Isn’t Toorak in a doose of a flutter now !
Half of the women are going insane;
Aren’t the dear newspapers slinging their butter
now
Over the Monarch beginning his reign !
Hopetonn has come, and from what’s understood
of him
He’ll never be setting the Yarra aflame !
Perhaps you will ask “ what on earth is the good
of him ?”
He’s part of the British Imperial game.
He’s just a bejewelled exponent of flammery,
Idol for toad-eating knights to adore,
The personification of sanctified shammery,
That’s what he is not a pennyworth more.


Government Advertisements.
T
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 26, 1889.
ENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Broken-hill Gaol, Erection of
Broken-hill Post and Telegrapl
Office, Erection
Court-house, Junee, Erection of
Coraki Post and Telegraph Office
Bridge, Warrego River at Gurn-
bali cn roads Bourke to Wanaar
ing
Custom House, Newcastle, Re-
pairs (fresh tenders)
Little Bay Hospital. Additions
Repairs, Court House, Armidale
Police Barracks, Deepwater-
Erection
Court House, Inverell —Fencing
Technological Museum, Drainage
(fresh tenders)
Low - level Bridge, Mangrove
Creek-road, Gosford to Wol-
lombi
Bridge in approach to Murray
River Bridge, at Mulwala
Alterations Protestant Orphan
School Parramatta
Roads Department, Annual Con
tracts, 1890. A deposit of £5
required with tender for each
contract.
Ship Chandlery, Supply of
Oils, Paints, &c., ditto
Plate, Bar Iron, &c., ditto
Ironmongery, ditto
Quarry Tools, ditto
Indiarubber Goods, Hose, &c.,
ditto
Boats, ditto
Pilot's Residence, Richmond River
Heads, Erection of
Conveyance of Coal from New-
castle to Nambuccra River dur-
ing 1890 (fresh tenders). £5
deposit required.
Supply of Hardwood, Colonial
Pine, Oregon, Baltic, &c., for the
Hunter River District, 1890.
Harbours and Rivers Branch.
£5 deposit required. (Fresh
tenders.)
Supply of Pipes, Orange Water
Supply
Bridge . Sugee Bay Creek, road
Wiseman's Ferry to Mangrove
Creek
Bridge, Dinner Creek, road Wise-
man's Ferry to Mangrove Creek
Contract No. 54, Sydney Sewer-
age, Supply of Ironwork
Lockup, Yass, Erection of
Bridge, Parramatta River, at
O'Connell-street, Parramatta
Contract No. 1, Supply of Iron
Piers
Contract No. 2, Erection of
Timber Bridge on Iron
Piers
Supply of Building Stone, Sydney
Gaol 1890 (fresh tenders)
Removing Snags from Mullet
Creek, &c., &c.
Painting and Repairs, Police Sta-
tion, Tighe’s-hill
Additions, Lock-up, Urana
Erection of Shed at Tathain
Wharf, Richmond River
Bridge, Mulwarrie Creek at
Tarago, Lower Bero-road
Bridge, Back Creek, on road
Gloucester to Copeland
Construction of a 350-ton Hopper
Barge, for Dredge Sampson
Bridge, Little Jilhby Creek, road
Oooranbong Wharf to Maitland-
road
Additions, Court-house, Windsor
Additions, Police Buildings*
Grafton
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
W ednesday
Dec. 4,
at 11 o’clock.
Additions, Police Officer's Quar-
ters, Grafton
Woolgoolga Jetty, Construction
of
Byron Bay, Cottage for Whar-
finger
Coffs Harbour Jetty, Construction
of
Hillston Gaol, Additions, &c.
Wednesday,
Dec. 18. ‘
at 11 o'clock.
W ednesday,
.lan. 8,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 25th November, 1889.
ATTENTION is directed to G a/.kite Notice
. inviting TENDERS for the Conveyance
nf Mails between Drake and Casino, Armidale
and Booroolong, and Berry and Nowra.
Tenders will be received up to the 18th proximo,
and must be addressed to the Secretary to the
Post Office, Sydney.
DANIEL O'CONNOR.
Business Announcements.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
Amusements.
rpHEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
Last Two
Nights.
PATIENCE L NighJ°
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE-
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
EVERY EVENING at S O'clock.
Mr. Edwin. Thorne
—IN—
THE ROYAL GUAR O.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
IJIOWN HALL, YOUNG
(Late Mechanics’ Institute).
The extensive Additions and Improvements
thereto being completed, the Hall (which is capable
of seating about 700 persons) is now available for
the use of Dramatic Companies.
The Stage is large, and fitted with many Changes
of Scenery with all necessary appliances, the whole
brilliantly illuminated with 100 10-c.p. Electric
Lights, which can be instantaneously switched on
or off at will.
Terms on application to
W. IVI. BARKER,
Town Clerk.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.45.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
The Celebrated Play
r» I P L O 3VE A O "ST.
Interpreted by the
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 30, THE SQUIRE.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
Royal museum to oyal museum
AND *** AND
PALACE OF AMUSEMENT,
Immediately opposite Town Hall, George Street.
Sole Propkietor ... ... Mr. John Solomon.
A GREAT SUCCESS!
Five Splendid Floors Full of Attractions!
THE DAILY RENDEZVOUS!
Amusements and Exhibitions ok all Descriptions !
Concert Koom ! Freak of Nature Koom !
ILLUSION ROOM !
Meehan leal Model Koom! Variety Koom!
One Shilling to all. Children Sixpence.
OTIS ELEVATOR. ELECTRIC LIGHT.
NOVELTIES ALWAYS ENGAGED.
HAROLD ASHTON, Manager.
■gONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC AND PLEASURE GROUNDS ok AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d.
QYCLORAM A!
The greatest battle in the world’s most mo-
mentous civil war is fought to its dread close daily
at the Cycloram a.
Where is it ? Opposite Redfern Terminus,
Open 10 to 10, Sunday Next (Half-price), 3to 10.
Have you seen it?
Business Announcements.
“What is Home without a Picture?”
Hi. BEE TST ASGONI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
H. MILDER,
BOOT II'PER MAXI’rACTIJUKII
IMPORTER UK
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Flnsllc Web, Grindery, «Ve.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
53!) GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FALLON’S—
CELEBRATED
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Fooultv
Shipping.
jyREOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on hy powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £O5,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.8.-Passengers’luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Ollice, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
jypORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1803.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
Elbe .. .. C. Thalenhorst Dec. 28 Jan. 2 Jan. 8
Habsburg .. G. Thumanu.. Jan. 29 Feb. 3 Feb. 6
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O'Connell-strcet.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of Now
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under:
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers ore fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 8501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to am point in the United States, may in- had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
•■lon apply at the Company's Offices. 15 Bridge-street.
F. IV HOUGHTON, Acting Manager.
Furniture, See.
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE "and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
í
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LTPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
• sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7, feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEW T ON an r> LAM B,
Furniture Warohousemen,
SPRING AND O'CONNELL STREETS.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. —The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand,
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LANB,
O'Connell and Spring Streets.
BE DROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, witli marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cano-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O'Connell and Spring Streets.
ì
ANY AS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Gd.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPER OR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS.
G x 8, 8 x 8, 9xB, 10 x 8, 12 x 8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord, G x 8, Gs. Gd.; 8 x 8,
95.; 9x 8,9 s. Gd.; 10 xB, 10s. Gd.; 12x8, 12s. Gd.;
12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
"DOCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
l» i restful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
í
MERICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ì
£1 ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Vert Low.
N E WTON an i) LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spuing «.nd O’Connell Streets.^
Lawn and PARK SEATS. Oft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standard*, 14a. (id. each. Newton
and Lamb.
/ i ARDEN SEATS, l!M. Verandah Chairs,
Indian Long-ahm Lounges. NEW IUiN
and LAMB. _
T> ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
11J lint,; and large variety of Chairs, from
(Jd.. etc.; special designs, extra quality. In un ion
ni ,d Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring ana
O'Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS. all hw, *t Lowest^ Prioes,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, OConnen
Street. .
”e wt o n an d lam B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN.
CABINETMAKEUS, \ PI [OUSTERKieI
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manukactort ;
SPRING AND O'CONNELL STREETS.
N
At the Finchley Harriers (amateur) sports
the Australian custom of starting from the hands
was introduced by one of the competitors. This
is not allowed in Australia now, and never would
have been allowed at Sheffield. The man whose
centre of gravity occupies a different side of the
line from his feet is to all intents and purposes as
much over his mark as if the positions were re-
versed.
Says the Entk’ Acte :
Pugilist Peter Jackson is about the best-shaped coloured
man I have ever looked upon. He has long arms, truly,
but their good size prevents their looking lanky. Peter
put in an appearance on the stage of the Aquarium on
Wednesday evening. I would rather not say anything
about the boxing display which was given by the coloured
champion and the “Strong Boy” from America on
Wednesday, because the latter was not an opponent cal-
culated to bring out Peter’s skill.


“A WELCOME WORK.”
The Australian Star, Sydney, says, under the
above heading’:—“ln our special column it will
be seen that Mr. J. I. Hunt, the well-known
Australian Press writer, is having a selection of
his writings published as a Christmas gift. The
work is certain to have a large circulation, Mr.
I lunt being a valued contributor to many Austra-
lian journals.”—The Star, November 18, 1889.
The Editor of the Sydney Freeman's Journal,
the leading Catholic paper in New South Wales,
says :
Freeman’s Journal Office, 15 Church Hill,
Sydney, Nov. 19, 1889.
T. J. Murray, Esq.
Dear Sir,—On the accompanying page you will
find a line about Mr. Hunt’s writings, which I
trust will be appropriate.
Yours faithfully,
T. BUTLER.
Mr. T. Butler, editor and proprietor of the
Freeman’s Journal (a brother of the late E.
Butler, Q.C.), says
A judicious selection from the writings of Mr.
J. I. Hunt should be very readable, racy and
amusing. As the “ Flaneur,” he has for about 15
years entertained, by an inexhaustable flow of
wit and humour, the readers of the Freeman’s
Journal; and in return no writer within my re-
collection has received from all quarters of all the
colonies so many genuine tributes of almost
affectionate admiration. I may add that the late
Mr. Dailey shared fully in this general feeling of
appreciation of Mr. Hunt’s rich vein of humour.
T. BUTLER,
Editor Freeman’s Journal.
The Editor of The Bulletin says ;
Sydney, 21st November.
Dear Hunt, —Anything like a judicious selec-
tion from your works should “take well and give
pleasure to all.” You are quite right in at last
introducing yourself in your own proper person to
a public whom you have had on the broad grin for
years. Wishing you every success, I am, dear
Hunt, yours very truly,
J. F. ARCHIBALD,
Ed. Bulletin,
Mr. A. E. Smyth, late advertising manager of ;
the Federal Australian, Melbourne, says :
During the three years I was connected with |
the Federal Australian, Melbourne, Mr. Hunt
wrote a weekly letter from Sydney, headed ;
“Sydney Squibs,” by “Ilderim,” and it is not
too much to say that a large number of people |
subscribed to that journal solely to read and enjoy
the cleverly-written letters. In travelling through
the whole of Australasia, I have constantly heard
the highest possible praise bestowed on the un-
known writer of these letters.
A. E. SMYTH.
Sydney, November 19, 1889.
FIST THE IPIRIESS
—AND
.
• j
Shortly to be Published,
Suitable as a Christmas Present,
THE WRITINGS
—or—
JOHN I. HUNT,
Well-known for 15 years as a writer to the
Australian Press under the nom de
plume of
“Flaneur” in the “Freeman’s Journal.” I
“Farceur” in “The Bulletin.”
“Ilderim” in the “Federal Australian.” !
“Venator” in the “Bathurst Sentinel.”
The work will consist of the choicest and best
efforts of the author, edited by the writer himself, i
who is acknowledged to be facile princeps —one of
the most humorous writers to the Australian Press,
and kindly supervised by T. Butler, Esq., editor
of the Freeman’s Journal,
The Book t HU be an apjtropriafc. Australian Christinas
present, coming from an Australian-born writer.
First Issue - 50,000 Copies.
Over 100 pages Reading Matter, with
Portrait of the Author.
Price, la. ; (POSTED*, la. 3d.
Book Orders early with nil Booksellers, or send
direct to T. J. MURRAY, Publisher, care of P.
Cmminghame & Co,, 140 Pitt-street, Sydney,
i
Transparent
Best & Cheapest 1
Baritone!! i
INCE 01" WALES’ HOTEL,
St. Kiltia, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MEXG Proprietress.
(JAvyson
DAWSONS
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEES & 00.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
B
P
E
C
T
1
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
Ask for the
U nequalled
“DAWN”
3d. CIGAR, Toba o c^nistS)
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
ì
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co.,
74a PITT STRRET,
SYDNEY
What Mr. O’Brien Overheard in the
Railway Carriage.
Jones : I want to settle in a nice mountain township on
the railway line, where the climate is fresh and bright,
and good for a feeble constitution, and where I can buy a
nice Township or small Farm Block at a low price, with a
fair chance of its rising in value. Where do you advise
me to buy ?
Brown : There are plenty of mountain townships, and
many of them are very beautiful places, but in most of
them the price of land is as high as it is near Sydney.
Jones : Oh, I can’t afford to pay a great price for my
land.
Brown: Then you must purchase in one of the rising
townships. There is one I know of where you can buy
good quarter-acre blocks at ten shillings afoot—surely
that is cheap enough' for you.
Jones: Yes. I can manage that; hut will it increase in
value ?
Brown : Certainly. Why, you can buy it now in the
main streets of the town.
Jones; The town that is to be, you mean.
Brown : I mean what I say. The place has a first-class
hotel, two general stores, butchers and bakers, public
school, church, post and telegraph offices, progress com-
mittee, temperance society, and cricket club. There are
any number of farms around it, and the people are
energetic and plucky, and mean to make things go.
Joses ; And you say the land is ten shillings a foot in
the main streets ?
Brown : I do ; but I mean to say that it won t be at
that price for long. 11l go further and say that you can
buy first-class farming land, mind you, really good farm-
ing land, that will grow anything, fifteen minutes’ walk
from the Railway Station, for fifteen pounds an acre.
Jones : Ohj yes ; but I don’t want a thousand acres.
Brows: No, I know you don’t; hut you can buy ten-
acre blocks for that money, on long terms, too,' land that
you can farm for a year or two, and then sub-divide and
sell for allotments. That’s a new idea, isn’t it ?
Jones : Well, I had an idea of purchasing a block cheap,
and participating in the “unearned increment,” I think
they call it; but I had no idea that I could purchase a
block to suh-divide.
Brown: You can buy ten acres of good garden land
close to the place which I speak of, for fifteen pounds per
acre. Do you know how much that is per foot ?
Jones : No.
Brown : Well, it’s only one shilling and threepence per
foot frontage, with a depth of one hundred and fifty feet,
and don’t you forget it.
Jones ; I don’t think I can raise £l5O all at once.
Brown : You don’t require it. The Vendors only ask
you to give them a deposit of one pound per acrej and
you pay one pound per acre on the first days of June and
December in each year till the purchase-money and in-
terest is paid off.
Jones : But what about the interest?
Brown : If you are disposed to pay off the £l5O before
the end of the first twelve months, you are not only
charged no interest, hut you are allowed a discount of 5
per cent. That’s liberal, isn’t it ?
Jones: Yes.
Brown : Then if yon can pay off within two years, you
are only charged -1 per cent., and if within three years, 5
per cent. If you are more than three years paying up,
you are charged 6 per cent.
Jones ; And where is this place you think so much of ?
Brown : THIRLMERE. Four miles beyond Picton,
and 1000 ft. above sea level,'Which is rapidly rising in
public estimation as one of the most prosperous of the
mountain retreats on the Southern railway line. The
climate is agreeable and invigorating, and highly suitable
for those constitutions which are unable to hear the moist
heat of the sea coast. The soil of the surrounding district
is rich and good, and many acres are now growing fruit
trees, grapes, and crops of various descriptions. The
hills around abound with mineral wealth and coal, and
shale outcrops arc frequent.
Then you cannot do better than buy land at Thirlmere.
The Title is Torrens,
You can hear further from
Watkin & Watkin, 313 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Or t lie Vendors,
The British Australian Land I Banking Co., Limited,
Hoitn UNO’s Buildings, 161 Pitt Street,
Who will lie happy to supply you with plans and all in-
formation. And you can catch a train any day in the week
at 9.30 a.m., arrive at Thirlmere about 12 ; you will find
the Agent, Mr. Frank Cabrera, waiting at the station,
who will show you the lots, and you can get back to Sydney
by 5 o’clock in the evening.
J]D¥IN G. GOERTZ,
Stock ami Share Broker,
FIU AIST GIAL -A. G-IE IST T 7
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Slock Exchange.
N THE SUPREME COURT CF
QUEENSLAND.
IN the LANDS and GOODS of GEORGE
GREEN, late of Brisbane, in the Colony of
Queensland, Freeholder.
TO ALL PERSONS WHOM IT MAY
CONCERN.
TAKE NOTICE that application has been
made to this Honorable Court by FRANK
GEORGE CHARLES GREEN, of Brisbane, in
the Colony of Queensland, Commercial Traveller,
the eldest son and one of the next of kin of the
above-named GEORGE GREEN, for a Grant of
Letters of Administration of all the Lands and
Goods of the said GEORGE GREEN, who
departed from his home in Brisbane on the
twenty-ninth day of September, one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-three, presumably for
Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, and
has not been heard of since, about the month of
October in that year, and is believed to be dead.
And further TAKE NOTICE, that, by the
Order of his Honor the Chief Justice of Queens-
land, dated the eighteenth day of October, 1889, it
is ordered that this notice shall be inserted once in
the Sydney Bulletin, published in Sydney afore-
said. and once in the Melbourne Age, published
in Melbourne in the Colony of Victoria, and that
unless information that the said GEORGE
GREEN is living is received by the Registrar of
of the said Court within one calender month from
the date of the publication hereof the death of the
said GEORGE GREEN shall be presumed, and
a grant of Letters of Administration of the lands
and goods of the said GEORGE GREEN shall be
made to the said FRANK GEORGE CHARLES
GREEN accordingly.
At the time of his departure from Brisbane
aforesaid on the said date the said GEORGE
GREEN was about forty-five years of age, was a
man of medium height with dark hair and grey
eyes, spoke with a foreign accent, and suffered
from asthma or bronchitis.
Any communication in pursuance of this notice
must be addressed to the Registrar of the said
Court at Brisbane aforesaid.
Dated at Brisbane this nineteenth day of
November, 1889.
RUTHNING AND BYRAM,
Proctors for the said Frank George Charles
Green, Queen-street, Brisbane.
Ecclesiastical .Jurisdiction.
If You have
Nervous Debility
Sick Headache,
Bilious Compl’nts
Fever & Ague,
Wasting of Flesh
Sleepless Nights
Neuralgia,
Or any disease of the
Liver. Bowels or Kidneys, Lack of
Strength or Nerve Power,
you can be Relieved and Cured by
LAEMBR'S
CELEBRATED
TONIC.
Price, 2s 6d & ss; Post, Is extra-
Prepared only by—
CLA.i;tsrs &c co.,
Chemists,
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
For Sale by all Chemists.
M. W. iCo.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Show-whitb
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
q \
CASHMERE
OUQUET
r Oimco>
ir\
.4;
Cashmere Bouquet is the most popular
of all American Toilet Soaps.
The materials of which it is made are
selected with the greatest regard for puri-
ty, and for the soothing and beneficial
effect which they impart to the skin and
complexion.
The perfume of Cashmere Bouquet is a
skilful combination of rare and delicate
odors. This perfume is introduced into
the soap by elaborate and powerful ma-
chinery, and each cake is stamped with
such enormous pressure (80 tons) that it
will outlast all others.
A DIFFICULT CASE.
There is a certain learned judge who sits in one
of the London High Courts of Justice, who says
that patent medicines, or, what he is pleased to
term them, “quack medicines,” should never be
used, except on the advice of a medical man. The
judge may be correct as to the large majority of
patent medicines, but there are exceptions to this
rule. If our readers will carefully follow the his-
tory of the case below, we feel quite sure that they
will agree with us. The case in question is that
of the young son of Mr. Thomas Buzzard, of
Belton, Uppingham, Rutland, who in January,
1881, was attacked with rheumatism in the feet,
which rapidly extended over the entire body. The
family doctor was called in, who diagonised the
case “rheumatic fever,” and attended the patient
until October, 1882, when he gave the case up as
beyond his skill, ordering him to be sent to the
Leicester Infirmary, where, at the end of two
weeks, he was discharged as incurable. From
here he was brought home completely crippled,
and very badly deformed, his feet being
drawn up to his hips, and seemingly firmly
fixed. He was perfectly helpless, and suffered
most intense pain. As a last resource he was placed
under the care of a celebrated physician in Leices-
ter, where he remained for a long time, but con-
tinued to grow worse. Having now been a helpless
cripple for over three years, and his case being
pronounced incurable by some of the most cele-
brated medical men in the Midland Counties, his
parents were persuaded by Mrs. Mary Ann Halls,
who lives at Uppingham, to use St. Jacobs oil,
Mrs. Halls relating to them her own case of having
been a cripple for years, and being permanently
cured by the use of the oil. A few bottles were
purchased, with the result that, after applying the
contents, the son was able to get about on crutches.
Continuing the use of the oil, he became per-
fectly cured, and Mr. Buzzard, writing to
the proprietors of St. Jacobs oil, under date
of March 16, 1888, says that his son now
often walks eight miles in a single day,
and that he is perfectly cured. The case
is regarded by himself and wife, as well as his
neighbours, as a most miraculous cure. From the
foregoing, as well as from many similar cases which
might be cited, it is clearly shown that the pre-
paration in question, although under the ban as a
patent medicine, possesses wonderful curative
properties ; and, it being an outward application,
can do no one any harm. While the learned judge
may advise us “not to use patent medicines unless
prescribed by a member of the medical profession,”
there are cases, as the facts above clearly show,
where St. Jacobs oil has accomplished in a very
short period that which the most eminent medical
men have vainly tried to accomplish for three
years, and then signally failed.
A DUCAL OPINION.
A leading jeweller, in speaking of the very
handsome cut of the Waterbary Watch Com-
pany which appeared in a recent issue of the
Review, gave your correspondent the following
little incident illustrating the popularity and
high estimation in which the American low-priced
watches are held in England. He says: “While
in England last summer I happened to be in the
vicinity of Eaton Hall, Chester, one of the country
seats of the Duke of Westminster, where there
was a meeting of yeomanry and some 200,000
people assembled. All were indulging in games
and festivities, the Duke being present in person
and mingling freely with the others, when his
Grace was accosted by one of his friends, who re-
marked that there were reported to be several
pickpockets present, and that he had better look
out for his watch. The duke laughingly replied
that he was grateful for the warning, as he had a
watch which he valued highly, although of small
cost, and that he would hate to part with it, at
the same time pulling out a handsome Waterbury.
The master of the hounds informed me that he
wore this watch in preference to all others.” This
endorsement from one of the nobility whose income
is 700,000d0l per annum is not bad for an Ameri-
can product. This is authentic, and is not an
advertisement.— Jewellers’ Review.
Make up your mind before you buy a watch
what you want it for. If it is only for an orna-
ment, almost any kind will do as well as another,
but the costlier the better. If you want a good
timekeeper you should buy a Waterbury.


HOT WEATHER.
To COUNTERACT the enervating, relaxing, and evi
effects of the heat and depressing nature of the
climate in this country during the summer months
no remedy has ever appeared before the public to
equal or even that would bear comparison with
Clements’ Tonic,
it prevents fever, malaria and ague, keeps up
the appetite, assists digestion and assimilation,
stimulates the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels ;
thus preventing liver and kidney disease, and
warding off their unpleasant symptoms, as head-
ache, constipation, piles, gout, rheumatism, dropsy,
apoplexy, &c. The summer is the time when
Clements’ Tonic is the medecine par excellence
for the people. It prevents the relaxation and
depression so prevalent in the hot weather in
these latitudes; it enriches the blood, aids
perspiration, and restores all lost nerve-power;
is the only reliable anti-febrifuge and pick-me-up
prepared in the colonies, and can be depended
upon to do good and cure disease. The action of
Clements’ Tonic is certain, sure, and prompt;
relief is felt immediately after taking the first
dose; it acts direct on the seat of disease and
cures the cause, and then the effects of that cause
cease. Most other remedies offered are prepared
with a view of treating the symptoms, con-
sequently, as soon as the effect of the medicine
passes away the trouble returns, and the patient
wants another bottle of medicine. This may be
very good for the maker of the remedy (?) but it is
not at all satisfactory to the patient. Clements’
Tonic positively, effectually, and permanently
cures ; it does not only relieve, like most of the
narcotic mixtures sold, but radically effects a cure;
and if the patient only avoids the source from
which he or she contracted the illness in the
first place, a relapse is impossible. Moreover,
Clements’ Tonic does not constringe the gastric
vessels of the stomach or cause indigestion, and
will not injure nor discolour the teeth. We shall be
glad to enter into particulars with any corres-
pondents who like to address us at Newtown.
Sydney, personally or by post.
THOMAS GARRETT, ESQ., M.P.
(late Minister of I. amis',
suffered from
Weakness! Indigestion!
AND
Poor Appetite!
he procured
CLEMENTS 7 TONIC,
and gracefully acknowledges the benefit
he derived.
Sydney, October 18, 1880.
Dear Sir,-I hav e used Clements’ Tonic with Very
Great Advantage. It is very Stimulating, and a
powerful aid to appetite and digestion.—Yours truly,
THOS. GARRETT.
If you arc a sufferer follow Mr. Garrett’s lead, take
Clements’ Tonic and you will derive the same benefit.
“ Thought his case beyond the Power of
Medicine.”
Kangaroo Valley, N.S.W., April 3, ’B9.
Dear Sir,—l have very much pleasure in bearing witness
to the great value of ‘Clements’ Tonic in cases of
LASSITUDE, NERVOUSNESS AND CONSTITUTIONAL
DEBILITY GENERALLY. For more than 12 months I
was a martyr to extreme lassitude, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, and their concomitant train of physical troubles,
so much so that I feared 1 should have to abandon my
profession as a journalist, writing being particularly
irksome and laborious to me. I tried several advertised
lonics (?) with little or no good result, and began to think
my case beyond the power of medicine to cure. However,
seeing your Tonic advertised in some of my Exchanges,
1 concluded to try it as a “dernier resort;” and I am
pleased to say the result was most satisfactory. After
taking one bottle 1 found my appetite much improved ; I
could sleep more soundly, and felt refreshed next morn-
ing. I continued the medicine, taking in all six large
bottles, and gradually all my distressing symptoms dis-
appeared. I now feci myself stronger than ever, and as
near perfect healtli as a man who has to bear the strain of
constant literary work can expect to be. I can confidently
recommend Clements’ Tonic to all persons suffering
from loss of nerve force through sickness or mental over-
work, and am most happy to support my testimony with
my signature.--And remain, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
P. JEFFERSON WALLACE,
Editor and Proprietor “ Kangaroo Valley Pioneer.’’
Gave him new Health and Strength.”
75 King Street, Sydney, March 10, ’B9.
Dear Sir, Kindly send me two more bottles of
Clements’ Tonic and permit me to express my thanks
and gratitude at the results obtained by taking two large
bottles. I had had a great amount of business worry to
contend against, which, together with the long hours 1 had
stuck to it, completely undermined my constitution, and
made me feel very tired, weak and ill, my nerves being
quite shattered. I was so nervous that the accidental
slamming of a door would cause me to start violently, my
heart would heat very rapidly, and I would break out in a
profuse perspiration, afterwards having a sensation of
extreme weakness, lasting for some hours ; my sleep at
night was disturbed ; 1 awoke in the morning with head-
ache and aching limbs, and quite unrefreshed. I had no
appetite, no strength, and no inclination to work, and was
completely run out. 1 waspersuaded by your advertise-
ments to try Clements’Tonic, and am a different man
ever since ; it gave me new health and strength, increased
iny appetite, and made me relish my food : I increased in
flesh I lost all nervous feelings, and now feel stronger
than ever. and am glad to bear tesfinony to the value of
vonr wonderful remedy. Yours, &c., W. D. BRA HAM.
When influential men like these allow their names to
appear in endorsement of a medicine, it proves, beyond all
question, the bona fides of that preparation, if you arc
still sceptical you can write to all or any and they will
answer you : No other medicine can show such proof
although there are scores of counterfeits on the market,
it rests with the public to guard itself against imposture.
Only meritorious articles are imitated and pirated, that is
why »o many substitutes for Clement’s Tonic are on
sale. Such imitation is the greatest proof of the reliability
of Clements’ Tonic.
Sold Everywhere.
To our Patrons.
Some Chemists, &c., being so blind to thoir
own interests that they do not stock this line.
I will supply it direct at the following rates,
packed free on rail or steamer:
Half-doz. Pint (4s. 64.1 Bottles for 255„ or
One doz. do. do. 455.
Exchange must be added to intercolonial and country
cheques, and freight where goods have to be sent by
steamer. Clements’ Tonic is a genuine article and
meets with patronage by all classes, always gives satis-
faction. Pirates only imitate, they cannot compete
with it.
F. M. CLEMENTS, NEWIOWN
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A, Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, £0 Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hockings<& Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & 0 0,,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, J;
DARLIXG HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKER S,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, <(r.
ATJCTIOUEEBS.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 X Yor It Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at [
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 1-1
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing I
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re- I
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees, j
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES or MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in |
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will |
not in any way interfere with their business. Examine- j
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J. j
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
TO YOUKTG ME 3XT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
THE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during- the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, JVo Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Rack, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Hashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, anil
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, 0.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
***« ...
.am
ft)
0 A
t.Q
I
— —-
SA
■ *
• l -3A- 1L ,+
lljll
I' l •-.
W J •■*. ««lm. .CT
■saS;
iUaifllC-mTQ-£N(ii CQ,, 8 BRIOCE SI « SYDNEY;
Tlx© Oxford Hotel, ISZixxg Street, Sydney.
PI’OriUETOR.
ir. THORPE
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES.
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOCK! JUST LAUDI2STG
Parlelgh, Netthelm, & Co.
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,'
10 x YORK STREET, x SYDNEY.
Sole Agents fur the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(.n ) .• • ’ ‘ ’ •
ALSO Importers ef «c<misilos for flic HOOT MAMT.\( Tl lilXO TILM»K in nil J«rtnil« inehiiUi... \f \flit vniv
I MPOUTED LE.VI IIKIIS, ,ve. ; ,m,l of the fol|o«i„ R s.-mya., Msrs; .-eerier l.loJs 'mn|lit I’ollhli
marking Tanners’ Tools and Materials. {<T Indents Exccutc.l on l avomab" Ttrnw! ’ ' * *
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
Mite
CONSU
B
n
SI" rAffl
-ti—
uinimnimTiTnE ,
OR RICHARDS
c
r
■
kb
HTCR
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established find favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has diming his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulnoss, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you bo perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would he advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by Arc,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25, (KK) cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
V Spring Street
(Oft Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FItEE.
“So you had young Beaumash all the evening. Did you notice his lovely eyes ? ”
Mo, dear, I was too busy listening to his clothes.”


Beale & Co.’s New Warehouse.
'Jr
‘'tf’k'S
'rd' .
CD-
OtJE NSW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES:
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary herein sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That We have during the
last Ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and-rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
Sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
ALAR GER RANGE OE APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL-PLATING. —In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
Improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER Is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon tire real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord When the bobin is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the hoy’s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
o- fells, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets ; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
trilling, ruffling, or ruching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time ; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth; you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any,woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
Upon any materials. > This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
Any of these performances will be shown at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary"alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’s clothes
are intended to be altered.
We have a special word for husbands: When the day’s
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—wits down to her
sewing. With' her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will be the greatest of all helps
to her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, it is the only article eft: the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost! If the
lady will use it, it Ml/ST earn far more than the half-a-
crown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not be en-
larged, but ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How often do wc waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences? The Machine
should far more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
ing or saving money as before. Is it not fairly to be
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
-
Slash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Free by Post.
Beale «Sz Company,
482 A. 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Or from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
Merchant, Sydney axxdL Melbourne.
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
sum, fbms, Busm®
PONY CARTS, &c., &c.
Express & Lumber Waggons.
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
%
Agricultural Machinery.
Melbourne ©Alee s
m
No- 2 St- James’ Buildings, William Street-
Sydney Office:
22 & 24 Clarence Street
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus;—
*
TJSI3
liebig- COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Souds and Entrees
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
P
ASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDDES &
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
CO.,
Omc Mwmmv
D
\I/V
vl>-
e
o
fr a
Offices
v'/.
!Y1 I L DU R A _
Melbourne
RENM ARK„
Victoria.
Chaffey Irrigation Offices, Swans ten Street.
, South Australia,.
ADELA 1 DE
vl/
-'i“
Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
Eng LA N D— J. E. Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner)
TroadeJ & Cf
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St.
UO N DO N E. C.
Portable Houses
—FOR —
■Fishing Parties, Surveyors, Miners, Squatters,
And GENTLEMEN’S SEASIDE RESORTS.
Children’s Play-Honaes for the Lawn.
i
WILLIAM FLEMING
MERCHANT & IMPORTER,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDFEY,
AND
No. 2 St. James’ Buildings, William Street
MELBOU RNE.
Business Announcements.
THE WINNING NUMBERS.
BRITISH PLATE*
& SHEET CLASS#,
m
cP
345
o
merchants!
o
m w
2 O
m
c vr^-s.^’
c>g
€
fee
r*"
sr=
E? 5
S«*f
Cuw'tsp^
m#:
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORATORS.
AGENTS WANTED in every town to Sell
Australian Natives Association’s
National Fete and Art Union Tickets.
£9OO in prizes; Is. each, or 23 for £l. For further
particulars, apply to SECRETARY, 119 Swanston-
street, Melbourne.
m
THE TREE OF LIFE.
Tlie only pure Eucalypte In the World,
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Euralypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Boney is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot —251 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
All communications to be addressed to the
Managing Director.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
EUCAtYPTL OIUSa.
Victory Ointments
ows
■EMBROCATION
mf:
V vvSOLO I
N
\ EVERYWHERE.
m


HORDERN and COMPANY,
HATS -A-ISrilD BON'ITETS I
NEXT ROYAL ARCADE, OPPOSITE CENTRAL MARKETS,
r FOB PRETTY PRESSES ! POE SS ~w Tn tt; nn
m- FOR PARACHITTES I m~ UPOIR LOVELY GLOVES I
-E 1 o r a 1 Kixx cl s o f JE3I oli d a y A. ttire (F aslxic>xx a b 1 @
-YOU CANNOT EQUAL
and
R easonable)
HORDERN a#3id COHPAMY, 4S©, 4SO, 490 Sydney
Next Royal Arcade, right opposite Central Markets.
THE SYDNEY CATERING
(Late G-unsler’s Cafe)
iMPANY.
175
itt Street, Sydney
W IbH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be Had if mi
their new cusine a trial. ‘‘ , TAi\yrDo n n/r a f ll ’ WII £ lve
- - JAMES Q. MABQtIAMD, Manager-
Citizens’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... A 200,000,
Head Office :
21 Castlereagh Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
Wew Business:
1887 There were Issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 » „ „ 34,684 „
1889 up to 88th October 48,8.13
r J hese figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death.
.JAMES P. GARVAN, I Managing Director.
WM. ALEX, SMITH, / Secretary.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS^
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO PLATE,
CIGARS A TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
A. M. Maries & Co.,
Vickery’s Buildings,-74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. fid. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 100
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
MOST DELICIOUS SaUCK
CO
§ a
fISE
oae
Oco
CELEB
eeds
6,000.000 Bottles
sold annually.
Enriches Hot
joints, Stews,
Deliciousto Chops,
3teaks,rish,Scc.
With soup it is 1
charming.
Agrees with the!
most delloato j
person.
Makes cold meat
a luxury.
Makes the plain-
est viands pal-
atable.
The daintiest 1
dishes more |
delicious. i
A jrroat addition
to Cheese.
Epicures pro-
? ounce it the
est Sauce.
Pears no com-
petition. A mar-
vel of cheapness
and enterprise.
Suitable to the
invalid’s cup of
Broth.
Beware of colour-
able Imitations.
Sold EvrryTehtrr
hy all Prate r*.
WttOLMALI
TTLLOCK A CO..
giOROK BT.. STDNKT -
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY. LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* 1888-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
THE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
A Wonderful Remedy.
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
Is now Universally Acknowledged to be a wonderful
Remedy for Nervous and General Debility, Nervous
Prostration, Torpidity of the Liver, Indigestion, Palpit-
ation of the Heart, Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude,
Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypochondria, Loss of
Energy, and Appetite, Female Complaints, Dizziness,
Noises in the Head and Ears, Loss of Vital Power, Alcholic
Craving, Premature Decline, Impoverished Blood, Im-
paired Sight and Memory, Consumption in its early stages.
Effects of Youthful Indiscretions, Mania, and all diseased
conditions of the system preceding from Deficiency of
Nerve Force. A few doses speedily afford relief, vvhilst a
course effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances
emphatically testify to the truth of this statement.
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it for
themselves.
Each Drop is Worth a Drop of Gold.
There is no remedy like Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for
Female Complaints. Every female should have a
bottle ready at hand, because for Irregularities, etc.,
it surpasses all others. As the nervous system is the
main-spring of human vigor and healthful regularity,
go where this complicated organism is deranged, Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine acts with a precision and curative effect
like the day spring dispersing the shades of night. The
whole organic system which depends upon the nerves for
its streams of electric force is recuperated and renewed
with this Gregt Vitalises The muscles rebound with the
energy of youth, appetite and healthful condition follow.
The skin becomes bright and clear, and the winter of
disease is made summer by the glorious sun of health.
Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support
the forcible truth of these assertions, and one trial will
render certainly doubly sure.
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
Is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, and is
ONLY PREPARED BY
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
410, George Street, Sydney.
N.B.—ln consequence of spurious imitations of “Tonic
Nervine,” which are calculated to deceive the public,
Marshall Bros, have to request that purchasers see that
the Labeldn every bottle bears their signature, thus—
without .which no bottle is genuine. Ask for Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine and see that you get it. Trade mark :
“Tonic Nervine."
ARTESIAN WELL SUPPLY CO ,
New York and nilshiirgli.
Manufacture Everything for Oil or Artesian Well
Boring, Drive Pipe, &o.
Competent Drillers sent when Required.
WILLIAM FLEMMING,
A at nt,
22 and 24 Clarence Street, Sydney.
HZ- T. SMITH’S
PATENT LAMP
Trains, Railway Carriages, Steamboats,
&c., &c., &0.
ar
h
THE above is an Illustration of the New Lamp
adopted by the Railway Commissioners for
Lighting the Sydney Trams. Mr. H. T. SMITH,
of 494 KENT STREET, the Patentee, has secured
the contract for the Manufacture and Supply of
these Lamps to the Department.
Its chief claims to advantages over other lights
are the Great Brilliancy of the Light on a Small
Consumption of Kerosene, Absolute Safety from
Danger of Explosion, the most Perfect Combus-
tion, Freedom from any Odour, and the little
attention required. The Trimming is merely
nominal, and the Chimney cannot be blackened or
broken, no matter how high the wick may be
turned up.
This Burner is claimed to be the Best for
Domestic Uses extant, and the Firm have them
applied to Lamps for all purposes. At a recent
Lecture before the Royal Society by Mr. Hamlet,
Government Analyst, this Burner received Strong
Commendation.
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
• and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Agent for the following celebrated
gunmakersJ. Purdey & Sons, Ch. Boswell, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Webley,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cashmorb. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-street, Sydney.
Price list on application.
Broken Hill South Silver Mining 1 Coimnv,
. LIMITED.
NOTICE is hereby given to Registered Share-
holders that Applications for the New
Issue Shares must be handed in to the Office of
the Company, 29 O’Connell-street, Sydney, not
later than 6th December, 1889, otherwise such
Shareholders will be excluded from participation
in such new issue.
Application Forms have been posted to each
Registered Shareholder, but in the event of non-
delivery the Company cannot be held responsible.
In such cases fresh Application Forms can be
obtained by applying at the above Office. Appli-
cation Forms may also bo had at the Union Bank
at Adelaide, Broken Hill, and Melbourne.
By Order of the Board,
J. J. WESTON.
Sydney, 22nd November, 1889.
LECTORS OF PHILLIP WARD.
Support your Old Friend,
r ‘ Michael Simmons,
whose Interests are identical
with your own.
pLECTORS of PHILLIP WARTX
Give your Support to
Mr. Michael Simmona,
ho has time and ability to serve you.
OF philli p ward
Give your Support to
r * Michael Simmons,
an Old Resident of the Ward, who will
serve you faithfully and watch over
an d protect your interests.
Jj] LECTORS of PHILLIP WARIX
If you return
Mr. Michael Simmons,
you will have a live Representative.
Give him your hearty support.
pHILLI P W A R D.
■^^■*- c L.ael Simmona
will
ADDRESS THE ELECTORS
THURSDAY, November 28, 8 o’clock,
Cooper’s Golden Hotel, Devonshire-street.
W. H. Traill, Esq., M.L.A., and W. F. Schey,
Esq., M.L.A., will support Mr. Simmons.
FRIDAY, November 29, 8 o’clock,
Daly’s Home Rule Hotel,
Queen-street, Chippendale.
JNDISPENSABLE pOR RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skin;
y^^ oish J < LJ > '!' otect yourself against CHAPPED
CKKT) SKIN , and to keep YOUR
Li) m tlj t,X luiy m good condition during the whole
year use
MOUSOKT'S
COCOA BUTTER SOAP.
. (Savon au beurre de Cacas.)
This celebrated Soap consists chiefly of Cocoa Butter , (ex-
of Violate) which is THE
MILDEST TAT KNOWN , and possesses a wonderfully
healing and softening influence upon the Skin.' The
beneficent properties of this product make themselves
apparent by the delicious creamy lather it produces
rendering even the coarsest SKIN AS SOFT AS
VELVET.
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOTTSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANK PORT-ON-TIIE-MAINE.
LONDON I 82 &33 lIAINSELL-ST., E.C. PARIS '. 29 RUB RADZIERILB'
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCEST., SYDNEY,
SOTiF AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
The AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LOAN and
CrAURANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Sydney: Corner of Market & York Streets.
Melbourne Branch: 283 Collins-street East.
Brisbane Branch; Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deeds of
Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise, Storage and Bond'
Certiflcatea, and all classes of mercantile and other approved
securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
Interest allowed on deposits; .3 months, C per cent -
6 months, 7 per cent.; 12 months, 8 per cent., and a bonus
declared to deposits of 12 months, renewal, 2 per cent -
6 months, 1J percent
A. MILLER, Acting-Manager.
Wool.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.
Offioeo:
Wool Stores: CEXTRATi WHARF; Produce Stores! CIRCITIiAR QUAY;
4B MACQUARIE STREET NORTH,
SYDNEY


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Bona-Fide.announcement. Highest cash price
fiven for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
)ress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (Neiv number,
163.)
Palls B eidge Family Ho tel -
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, do.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. 11. DURBAN U Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
—THE-
Fresh Food & |ce 0-
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful , hut'it is
quite true.
Weekly Accounts.
BOOK of NATURE and Illustrated
Matrimonial Guide * planation of the struc-
ture and uses of the organs of life and generation in man
and woman, intended especially for the married, or those
intending to marry, and who conscientiously and honestly
desire to inform themselves upon the intent and nature
of marriage and its duties, to which is added A COMPLETE
MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases of the generative
organs, whether resulting from infection or sexual excesses
and abuse, with much other valuable and highly important
information, illustrated with more than fifty engravings,
by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. Price 3s. 6d., post 4s.
The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion for
Married People, post Is. 2d. Mrs. Besant’s Law of Popula-
tion, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful Song Book, extra large,
Is. (id. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s. Aristotle, complete,
3s! (id., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. 6d., post Is. Ski. New
complete Fortune Teller, 2s.
“ The Matron's Manual or Midwifery,” the hook every
married woman needs ; price 75., posted 7s. (id.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” price Od.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates; price 75.,
post 7s. (id.
The arts of Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made
easy enabling any one to become an expert Boxer and
Athlete, illustrated with fifty engravings, price Is., post
free. Agent for London Reynolds, Reverse, Dispatch,
Dublin Freeman, Glasgow Mail. Advanced, and Republican
literature on sale.
Six* Robert Bear,
Radical Book Stores,
rVUIt STUF.I’.T, SYDNKV.
Business Announcements.
F. C. NICHOLES & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners k Pastrycooks,
City Buildings;
736 George Street, 736
HAYMAEKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
“TOM’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. Eirst-olass Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
D \ ir 7 / .
v 'Photographic, /
. \ \ VIEWsV^IPORTRAITS
..fSs^kfv-
-316,C^0^S r %, K
R
O T E L,
Ten
Y A L H
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths,
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
ì
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents ;
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT Sc CO.,
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize-MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
J* LUDOWICI & SO-HS*
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting 1 ,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
i
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
gYDNEY TAKES THE LEAD.
The Sydney Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdresssing Palace
AND
TOILETTE REQUISITES,
02 KI3VTG- STREET.
(Directly opposite the Arcade),
NOW OPEN.
The Public Verdict—A long-felt want filled,
an Establishment that Sydney can be proud of.
No Expense has been spared in fitting up this
Establishment for the convenience and comfort of
its patrons.
A large staff of the very best Gentlemen Work-
men are employed in the Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Rooms, and all work is guaranteed.
A SELECT STOCK OF
Gentlemen’s Mercery, Perfumery*
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Toilet Requisites.
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco, &c-,
Sold at the Lowest Cask Prices.
LAUNDRY AGENCY, &c., &c.
Sydney and Melbourne Daily and Weekly Papers
kept on File.
All Ladies and Gentlemen are invited to visit
and ins: ect this establishment, and be convinced
that it is not equalled in the Southern Hemisphere.
HOURS:
From 8.30 a.m. to 7 p.m. SATURDAYS, 0 p.m.
Medical
*
O)
x
rv
i*
M,
OJS>
A Lovely Skin
Nothing is known to science at all comparable
to the Cuticura Remedies in their marvellous
properties of cleansing, purifying and beautifying
the skin, and in curing torturing, disfiguring, itch-
ing, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin, scalp
and blood, with loss of hair from infancy to age.
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula.
I have had a most wonderful cure of salt rheum.
For five years I have suffered with this disease. I
had it on my face, arms and hands. I was unable
to do anything whatever with my hands for over
two years. I tried hundreds of remedies, and not
one had the least effect. The doctor said my case
was incurable. I saw your advertisement, and
concluded to try the Cuticura Remedies; and
incredible as it may seem, that after using one
box of Cuticura, and two cakes of Cuticura
Boap, and two bottles of Cuticura Resolvent, I
find I am entirely cured. Those who think this
letter exaggerated may come and see me and find
out for themselves. GRACE P. HARKHAM,
North St. Charles Street, Belle River, Ont.
Cuticura Remedies are absolutely pure and the
only infallible blood purifiers and skin beautifiers.
TIN
TED with the loveliest delicacy is the skin
bathed with Cuticura Medicated Soap.
I have been afflicted since last March with a skin
disease the doctors called eczema. My face was
covered with scabs and sores, and the itching and
burning were almost unbearable. Seeing your
Cuticura Remedies bo highly recommended, con-
cluded to give them a trial, using the Cuticura
and Cuticura Soap externally, and Resolvent
internally, for four months. I call myself cured,
in gratitude for which I make this public statement.
CLARA A. FREDERICK, Broad Brook, Conn.
I have suffered from Salt Rheum for over eight
years, at times so bad that I could not attend to
my business for weeks at a time. Three boxes of
Cuticura and four bottles Resolvent have en-
tirely cured me of this dreadful disease.
JOHN - THIEL,
1875 Second Avenue, New York City.
The box of Cuticura that you sent me some
months ago did me so much good that I will send
for another box, believing that it will cure me of a
skin disease with which I have been troubled for
eighteen years.
FANNIE I. JOHNSON, Amsterdam, Va.
Bold everywhere. Price: Cuticura, 50c. ; Soap,
2oc.; Resolvent, $1. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
D®“8end for “How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 Illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
Pin
IPLES, blackheads, chapped and oily skin
I prevented by Cuticuka Medicated Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Anglo Scandinavian
Cold Medal
Acknowledged
The Best
î
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
0
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST quality.
Sour Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition, London.
( By Special Appointment.)
Wholesale Agents:
Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M.
bugle
B. FOSTER
IB IRA. IST ID
& SONS,
-A. Ij IE
)( IToT I 0 E.
LONDON,
STOUT.
PUBLIC
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
qhijjfulhj foracd labels have lately been palmed off on the public : , r
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear then; name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “lostkhs Bugle Brand offeree
for saWßhout these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds. „ .
A Liberal Reward will he (liven for information leading to conviction of the o fenders.
BALCHIKT, JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
Ask
for Kupper’a Elberfeld Lager
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sisliment.
Beer
Lament of the Front Gate.
An old and crippled gate am I,
And twenty years have passed
Since I was hung up high and dry
Betwixt these posts so fast;
But now I’ve grown so powerful weak —
Despised by man and beast—
I’m scarcely strong enough to squeak,
Although I’m never greased.
’Twas twenty years ago, I say,
When Mr. Enos White
Came kind of hanging round my way
Most every other night.
He hung upon my starboard side,
And she upon the other.
Till Susan Smith became his bride,
And in due time a mother.
I groaned intensely when I heard
Despite I am no churl—
My doom breathed in a single word ;
The baby was a girl ?
And as she grew, and grew, and grew,
I loud bemoaned my fate ;
For she was very fair to view,
And I —l was the gate !
Then in due time a lover came,
Betokening my ruin,
A dapper fellow, Brown by name,
The grown-up baby wooin’.
They sprang upon me in the gloam,
And talked of moon and star.
They’re married now and live at home
Along with pa and ma.
My lot was happy for a year.
No courting night or day—
I had no thought, I had no fear,
Bad luck would come my way.
But oh ! this morning, save the mark !
There came a wild surprise,
A shadow flitted grim and dark,
Across my sunny skies.
A doctor, with a knowing smile,
A nurse, with face serene.
A bustle in the house the while,
Great Scott! what can it mean ?
My hinges ache; my back is weak;
My pickets in a whirl;
I heard that awful doctor speak :
It is another girl.
Ex.


K?" READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s ; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic—a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., for allimpurities of the blood. 2s; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &0., &c. 3s 6d; 36s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &o. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is 6d; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s.
Armstrong's 156 Mixture for discharges. 3s 6d.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s 6d &ssCd ; 30a & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s 6d; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is Od; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &o. Is; 8a doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Peroipitate Ointments (in boxes). Od ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &0., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is 6d ; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d; 6s doz.
Armstrong's Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin, is; 8s per doz.
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz. _
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leather, &c. 6d & Is; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carboliscd Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is6d ; 6s 6d & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Hack Ointment forhorses. 2s; & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &IsCd ; 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment the best remedy for
splints, curbs, etc. Is (id ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powders, for horses
(in tins). 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes,
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, &c.—
all ready mixed. Od ; 8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. C. ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Trusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Largest Stock in Sydney.
FOR DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND FOR SPECIAL PRICE LIST (POSTED FREE).
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
Tub CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING- ALLOTMENTS,
From tl per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Facli.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Laud in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
T'ho Intercolonial Investment So,, Limit;!
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
—tub-
federal REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies' Act, lS7i
CAPITAL ~ ~ i 200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
■AT Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits 3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent.; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A, W. Miller, Manager
—THE-
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATING
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
Directors :
Jambs Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney ;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving ot
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
Tor further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
The British mid New South Wales Investment
anil Financial Co., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies' Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydnhy Office : 246 PITT STREET.
HILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
D Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits :
3 Years 10 per cent.
12 Months 9 per cent.
6 Months .... .... 8 percent.
3 Months 7 Per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M DONALD, Manager.
Business Announcements.
—THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
isli
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon, George Thornton, M.L.A.,
Chairman.
Head Office;
Corner Pitt Si King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
ROBERTS & 0 0.,
-WHOUESALE-
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
hay AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Graoechurch Street, Loudon, E.O.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers’
Squatters'
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
' IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders'
_ Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Kortlng’s Gas Engines— The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR.
ì
THE
“PLUM”
RAZOR.
w
years.
Strong
Razor
E recommend gentlemen who shave themselves to try the “PLUM” RAZOR. It is purely
Hollow Ground and NEVER requires Grinding and wo guarantee each Razor for two
Set ready for use. Price, single Razbr, 10s. fid. ; or a pair of Razors, Black Handles, in
Leather Case, £1 Is. In Ivory, single Razor, 15s. Pair in case, 30s. Send P. 0.0. Every
sent by Registered Post.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
"POTOSI” -HAIRDRESSING SALOON,
680 OEOEGE STREET SYDNEY.
THOMAS ROSSES,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llnvannnli Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor de Itonhn
Brand of Cigars and “ Empire Cigarettes."
DA3XT. SXJLLIVA3XT
(Late of Brisbane Caf6),
lias bought MATTERSON’S HOTEL, opposite
Lasactter’s, George-atreet.
Extensive alterations and improvements just
completed. Recollect DAN’S OLD REPUTA-
TION for the best brands in the market.
DAN. SULLIVAN
Has a nice cold collation with salad, between one
and two o'clock everyday.
Medical.
PULVERMACHER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
fhlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
mpaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST «Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-stueet West, Melbourne.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselvesof Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxfoed-st., London, yw* Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Business Announcements.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Keller Slour and (Grain Stored.
6'c)o t-yd '
GHANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(pear King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE Rtff.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame*
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J . SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool A Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRV HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allkinds of Tinsfor Confectioners)
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
o
.A. Trial Solicited.
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
1 Piano. Price, 3s. Cd. And IMPROVED VAMPINO
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 64-, posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
EMPIRE BUILDINGS,
Collins Street West, MELBOURNE
(Near Scott's IIotbl).
WE beg to inform our Friends and the
Public that we have Opened these
Grand Premises as an
OYSTER SALOON
AND
Continental Dining Rooms.
PRIVATE DINNERS provided oa Shortest Notice.
- Modkratr Ciiarobs—
BINTI & KATZ,
PROPRIETORS.


Medical.
HERfOUOIEN.
It
m
' \ EUREKA
electric I
belth)
--VwV
.V-
X;
' V
spfl
H
SV
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
diseases ©f tee Nervous system.
Vj^^,?l^^- t * l i’ uspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
Electric Maprnotio Belt will cure
Sll°wv Seminal Debility, Impotence,
weakness caused by .indiscretion. Pains in the
Swm -LWmiago, i Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
and in fact any disease of the Nervous
lile currents are steady and constantly felt by
tne wearer. It has groat improvements over all other
netts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 80 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
We re . Present them *0 bo. Those belts are
mfm 6 specifao P'irpo&e of producing a continuous,
“; d 4> 30 ° tll i n g current of electricity through all the weak-
Parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
-ven the worst case permanently cured in three mouths
At is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia
forming persons how they may obtain these belts
mthqut paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
|>ostage, e t t 0 aUy address on reoei Pt of £2d stamp far
AddressVOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
13ox 91$ GK P, 0., Sydney.
Dr-. Jaiiiis D. Llewellyn,
L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SFBCIALIST
—IN—
Tonic, Nervous and Crenito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consumed daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston & Elizabeth StsJ,
melbourn e.
'Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
SAII Personal Consultations are peek ; but by
ter, a 16® °f £1 i s charged, which is inclusive
u medicines. Patients living at a distance and
Unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases—price,
os. fid. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
thePiibhsim, “The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery,
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
T IIIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
DIMNES<f EYES and LIDS,
IIiIIsESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Hhdilv
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Can + inn T IRc Public are requested to notice the
WaUULUIi I words, Hose’s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark fa Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery,
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
. H. Jh.. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist.
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Rost Ss. 6d.
J3T- Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
ERVOUS DEBILITY,
1 ?u K ’ ™ I V SONAI f Y ’ or ,iv rOST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN. the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXIERT SPECIALIST. A medical liook sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
mg valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussux’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. Cd. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Musscn, “Rosdund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
BEOITS INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, a
reeent or chronic discharges of the urinary organ
Sold in Paris by
J. FE BL RE,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richeliei
Agent in Sydney;
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST A ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation:
9to 11 a.m,; %to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
M Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S Yp KTE Y.
Medical.
r WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
$
tF*
&
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as win'd arid pain in
the stoillach, sick head-
achCj giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat; IpSs, t pi,. appetite,
shditne.ss of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
.sufferer is. earnestly, invited to try oue box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them, carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECH AM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
qe found to work Wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole phj r sical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and * ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patietlt of rest. Let any person give Beecham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
1
CORE & flOGG
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases cff the Genitourinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
2, CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOt.SUUTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
Hotels.
IToTEt
Dtiii
BOW
;■>
QOWDCN
Mom
'.C'v- •'
EtOWDEKTS HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Svdnet,
JOHN C. HO* HEN .. ... Proprietor
WJBSTBRlXr HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied, tf-tr Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
83f” lit very and Letting Mlnlile*.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE . Proprietor.
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches!
64 BITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which- can be ascertained on
application.
F; GIBLtN; Manager.
Read ! 3F5.-sej.c3L ! Read. !
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
Histor j of Botany Baj*
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - 0*23. & Sliilliaa-gf
Per post, Is. 3d.
Wholesale Agents ;
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne | Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide: -Neville & Co.
Tasmania!): Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Lauliceston.
“ For F aming a Picture fet and Well.”
w .- x; x
D BERNARD S Picture and Moulding
• Stork, 399 Georg k-St., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edge 3.
pecial attention paid School Drawings Flush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
i
• 4
Branch :
(578 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
HAMUfA«TuR£«9
« IMPORTERS OF
it-. .. I U&U. *_»
HATS CAPS A.
r— •
4Je CEORCE ST
3VDNEY 1
0/yoosi fe LassetCers
$
&
y-
or*
WlO
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
AM
í
m
/\UCH
INC
PO
K
2ha
MANUFACTURED 6V
M
J r J!M£S C//AN/VObS/arl,ouTS t
iSold. Inj all C
Business Announcements.
THREE GREAT EIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
AND 'ftJß
New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
Harvey Lamp has boon adopted by tlie
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special _ Meptloh by experts at the
late Melbourne Kxhibition for onr lighting
itleqiUinß. Over GOOD Harvey Lamps are ih use
iri this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. Those Lamps can
be 'seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
— r%~ — ,
Patentees for Australasia:
n. "3?. & 00.,
404 Kent Street South. S¥!>XEV;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S. A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill ;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
Send f° p Price List and Circular!
AUTOMATIC
“NO TENSION” SEWING MACHINE.
NOISELESS—LIGHTEST RUNNING.
Most Beautiful and Durable Work,
AND DOES NOT INJURE HEALTH.
ALSO POii
Beehives and Supplies, Incubators and Brooders,
Pateht Extending Trellis, Stoves for Wood, Coal,
Gas dr Oil, Mangles and Washing Machines,
Carpet Sweepers, Preserving Jars, Ice. Chests and
Refrigerators, American Egg Cdses with Portable
Fillers.
Sc. CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mention this paper.]
-THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE GO.,
Limited,
M A NUFACTURERS OP
Stearine and Paraffin Gandies,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original——
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
lien's Patent Unbreakable Me Eompany,
LIMITED.
Factory and Ollicc: 337 Castlcrcagh Street,
(Late 245)
STniLET.
New Style of Tree.
The Company is now prepared to manufacture all kinds
of Saddles. Price £3 and upwards. Any infringement of
the Patent will be prosecuted. No Saddle genuine with-
out our Trade Mark.
ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary.
PAPER-HANGINGS,
OiisXfaou* 8 * Paints.
WALLPAPERS Fro/* 5 -roll
PAI
Tj? BathurstSt
Brickfield Hill .
WALTER HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
i received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigo-
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will bo on Sale every Friday at
the Ollice, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
PRINCE OE WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-st., East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situ tod.


SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
Sts'!.
i
he-
rn
H®
■■
ss
T:
m
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Dooms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
32 Chapel St., Prahran.
2 Albert St., Windsor.
Bkaxch
Offices
P. R, LARKIN,
IMPORTER OP
W 1 IN' IE S, x SPI E I T £3., x BEE IR, S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jamesons Dublin Whisky (5 to IC> years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Rob’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
m Hennbssy s, Maetell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (6, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
KB- Th . R J! old^ 1 : SC(JTC/l WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.li.L.
The Best ort and Sheny Wines and Champagnes, pgr- All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
ol Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
anil jingle Bottle Departments, anil <sporge>st., Syflney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST~CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
' )x(
“roduce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
ì
Kssa
mmmmm
I
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
>*<
10,000 Bedsteads,
From lOs. 6d. to £35.
zt&sssg*
BAYt.EE &'CO
.TT'laW 2- !
} c^'dYotot e» 051 ft <mjr
AUCTIONEERS & ESTATE ACEHTS
tm
W?m£s&:
- ‘-r
afe-<*.;.-gS*sg
BAY L E E &
329 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HT'ree !E 3> 3reiscs3?ix3-txo2XEj
Are to be found in the “ Liyht ami LI f'e,'
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility’ and
Kindred Disease,?, &c. A copy of this hook will
be sent Free, 'sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & GO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
7G HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
i
i
MASOM BROTHERS,
m
9 v
Sw
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Salk to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmonger)', ami
GENEUAL HARDWARE
(lliiss, tliiua and
EARTH E N W A R E.
WINES, BEERS SPIRITS ,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
John Walker and sons
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A, MEL V I N and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SMITH, XT.S.A.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
hi PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of ROTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 Sc S First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
■{
THOMAS WALLACE, '
Proprietor.
m
S.
heX
Com
PL EX
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk fcr beautifying (lie cornphonon, an 1
warranted free from lead or grease. J t removes P < ckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redne-s and Roughness c.f the £!; n; i.
most coiling and refreshing to the face i:i hot v. eat her,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. Iso lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Co’our.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, a pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints — White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Chemi t 3 and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
TANGYES, LIMITED
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS,
2" to 40'' discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
XiatKcs.
DRILLING MACH NES.
, \
■
HKv'*;-
■* •*£
iQPijPiiT^Will
BIRMINGHAM
<a ?j| ta sa
I 5?
HSSmQj
• '
Vjot« StiiaiftJ'
TOBINS ENGINES,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
«/ O
Saw-mill Engines,
FLOra-MIiL ENGINES.
engines
FOB
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubular Sailers.
4'OKNimi ROII.EKS.
&a, &a
We invite al those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, largo or small, to write'for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome toiinspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
12 0, 131, 133 & 13S HAY S T H 13 lE3 T, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY,
