

rour
rrocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney. ,
“An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the heat Ale or JroiDer.
-Lancet.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
T s» ae!
Tlie Beat Timekeepers in tiie World.!
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
-he very best materials throughout ; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
able to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s ” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S.A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value XI. S. Mint assay. ■ A ■:
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly-back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
CHRONOGRAPH
AMEEICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltliam BuiMings, Bond. Street, Sydney.
«-* » f>y r:- v-»: %*• _a~
Lever Brothers, “Stmllg'lit Soap” Manufacturers,
OFFER the following PRIZES to the successful competitors who compile the most English Words from the letters contained in the name “ Australasia.” FIRST PRIZE, Five Pounds (£5); SECOND
PRIZE, Two Pounds (£2); THIRD PRIZE, One Pound (£1). In addition to the above ELEVEN PRIZES will be given to the successful competitors from the words “Sunlight Soap,” for
Children Under Fourteen Years of age— One 405., two 205., four 10s., four ss. With each list a Sunlight Soap Wbapper must be attached, and with the children’s competition a written statement that
the list is the work of the child, and the name of the school at which the child attends, lasts to be sent in not later than August 30th, addressed, HE VLI ! BIiOT HIRS, SI DNEY.
BUIMIOUGHES & WATTS
(LONDON),
Billiard-Table Manufacturers,
All Requisites for tlie dame.
Also Lawn T<omuXjl3Ls, Cricket JSs XT'ooti'baJL]..
8 BOND SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mebijevaii Metal Workers
ROLLER SHA.TES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
Established
1843.
LIFE
Established
1845.
INSURANCE COMPANY.
Conducted Trade* the Official Supervision of the Insurance Department of the Government of the State of New York. Reports deposited annually with the Board of Trade in Great Britain,
in accordance with “The Life Assurance Companies Act, 1870.”
Life Assurance Only.
Purely Mutual.
All Profits belong to Policy-holders, and Apportionments are made annually.
STATEMENT FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1888:
ACCUMULATED FUNDS .... £10,234,606
SURPLUS over Liabilities by the New York State Standard of Valuation (4 per cent. Actuaries 9 ) .... .... .... .... .... j>2, *7*l*l ,*l*l*l
INCOME FOR. —•— Jj; _ • ■ .£5,226,601
Actual Heaultis.— The following Policies were taken out on the following plan at the London Office of the NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY in 1872, and having
matured in 1887, were then paid :
Plan-15-YEAR ENDOWMENT—IS-Year Tontine Investment.
df
Noth.—The Policy-holder in each case has been insured against death during the fifteen years, and being alive at the maturity of the Policy, received an amount equivalent to the refund of
aU the premiums paid, xvith nearly five per cent, compound interest; thm his insurance during the fifteen years cost him nothing.
The Nonforfeiting Free Tontine Policy includes the advantages of the Tontine principle, of accumulations (securing valuable investment features in combination with insurance at
low cost), guaranteed options at end of Tontine periods, and perfect freedom after two years as to residence, travel and occupation (except service in war). In case of death by reason of en-
gaging in military or naval service in time of war, the reserve value of the policy will bo paid. Por full particulars apply to
JOBIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOm STEEET CZHULdVIIIBIEIRS, SinXESTETT.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
ID®
ill
DIXSOPSONS
'P
*
a
o
■3?
o
Jt.
x
o
Po®\
SIR ROGER
*v
a
V-
iQ
71V 1
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale In England
and is now heing introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every "Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
AXJC
Consequence Jm{tafions^c/ x TnE r WORCESTERSLf/RE
{fiCE £which to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
fiat*t ,to request that Purchasers .ste that the* Label ..en every bo tils
iheir Signature thus—
O'
without, which!no :,bpttU ofJhe, original WOR CESTERS&IEJt'
SA UCE is genuine.
IkfoECETi'OSiPPERKINS' Sauce, and see Name,on Wrapper, /Label, BottU atiui
m Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
hvhell,
, &*£., 6re. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Taylorßrtf
highly nutritive
Coeoa
MAY BE "OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS UR PACKETS THROUGHOUTTHE COLONY.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
“Can’t B Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “Can’t B Beat.”
Something New 1 Something New !
The JB3 Package, “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
J3F"° Smoker’s Companion!
containing the following :
11b. Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacoo
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. IHS Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouob
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long Cut, American
!PP“ Delivered Free at Hedfern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state wha
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved I 50 per cent, saved 1 Note the address
MICK SIMMONS,
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarkkt, Sydney.
Brittbnbekg & CO.
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarenc# St., Wynyarcl Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings .
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
- fragrance.
ATKINSON’S CELEBRATED
EATJ BE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of (Ul Dealers and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fru.lt Merchant.
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
Year ending
Oct., 1885.
Subscribed Capital .. £180,425
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 61,630
Year ending Year ending
Oct., 1886. Oct., 1887.
£350,000 .. £431,125
120,000 206,686
Deposits Received .. 93,581 ... 261,500 391,356
Advances Made ~ ... 123,248 - 247,840 ... 307,828
Total Income .. ... 200,106 451,085 797,990
Deposits received at following Rates :
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.
Special Terms for longer periods.
Year ending
Oct., 1888.
£580,000
251,019
1,123,949
625,826
2,048,951
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH.
To persons who desire to put by
small sums of uncertain amount,
and who wish to secure Interest
upon such sums at a Fair Rate, and for EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five per cent, per Annum
upon their Daily Balance.
Ample Fund* for Borrowers. Terms Liberal.
B
eg
•v' a : aL3^2La=a : i3!dii3
PREMIER
Building 1 Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
£25 Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in
Cash. The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received
in October, 1885, £25 Is. 94., towards which sum they had con-
tributed only £l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
_
Hon. John Himmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary.
Jf
me FEDERAL COFFEE PALACE,
——CORNER OF
TTinp and Collins Streets, Melbourne,
Containing Five Hundred and Sixty Rooms, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES OP ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
Special Dining Saloon for Ladies, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table Appointments Unequalled in the City,
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL on GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING & RECEPTION ROOMS.
Hot, Cold and Sliower Batb.a.
Night Porter always in Attendance. Telegrams and Letters promptly attended to.
Georgre Colien - ■ • Manager


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No. 494.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 3, 1889.
Price, 6d.
fnyd^ark
fsd
c
The Hyde Paris —Sydney —Question.
N.S.W. RAILWAYS: “HI! I SAY THERE, HOW LONG DO YOU INTEND TO STAND AGIN THAT GATE KEEPING ME OUT?"
PARKES: “JUST AS LONG AS IT IS POPULAR—AND THAT WILL BE FOR EVER.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pxtt-btreet, Sydney, New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... . 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc,, and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing icith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-CUppings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bid wc
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undet stand that
■we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct The Bulletin Ofiicc Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom ice do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 3, 1889.
State-Education—Whither?
On educational matters in Australia the State
and the Christian Church stand as a judicially-
separated couple. The separation is more
complete in some colonies than in others,
but all over Australasia Church and State
have ceased to operate, as two in one, on the
plastic mind of childhood. It was the State
that broke the bond of union. The State
put the Church away. It is not strange that
certain representatives of the cast-off insti-
tution feel sorry when they look back. Their
world went very well then. Nor is it strange
that they become angry when they look
around, and dismayed when they look for-
ward, There is no sign that the old times
will return. On the contrary, there are
signs that what is now separation will
become absolute divorce. It is true
that some sections of the Church do
not trouble about the matter. They silently
acquiesce in the decision of the State. It is
unreasonable to expect that in an organisa-
tion so vast all members will be equally wise
or equally far-seeing. There are sure to be
some who will embrace what will injure
them. They will fondle the torpid serpent.
The wooden horse was taken into Troy amid
acclaim. It is to be remembered at the same
time that some denominations, representing
Christian doctrines, do not concern them-
selves about the science of Christian govern-
ment. They live the lives of the unattached.
These two classes can be put aside when the
educational separation between Church and
State is discussed.
* # *
A large, disaffected body remains. The
disaffection expresses itself in various ways.
It breaks out sometimes in petitions to
Parliament, as at present in Victoria
and Queensland, and sometimes in plat-
form and pulpit denunciation, as lately in
New South Wales. In the case of one deno-
mination it expresses itself as well in acts as
in words. That denomination has practi-
cally settled down to educational isolation.
This fact is of far more moment to statecraft
than unlimited platform and pulpit diatribes.
Whether Bishop Higgins said this, that, or the
other thing about the State schools of New
South Wales, or about any schools, is of
slender significance ; but that Bishop Hig-
gins’ branch of the Christian Church forbids
its children to attend schools built and
equipped by the people of New South Wales
is a matter of high State concern. The rush
made to rebut what w'ere taken as the
Bishop’s attacks upon the schools, while the
attitude of the Bishop’s church towards the
schools is what it is, illustrates how little
men notice a great fact if it be silent, and
how actively they pursue a small incident
that is noisy. In his speech at Cooma the
Bishop may or may not have been misre-
ported. Literal accuracy is not always
necessary. A substantial report is often a
sufficiently good one. The Bishop’s own
version of his words raises the images w hich
the first report conveyed. A comparison
was instituted between Denominational and
State schools, and if ‘ 4 licentiousness and
infidelity ” were net so directly put over the
doors of the latter, the “ Moloch of godless-
ness ’—a tolerably comprehensive appella-
tion—was put there instead. The allegation
of a bad report, however, caused the critics
to lay down their pens, and bought the
Bishop peace.
* * #
But the situation, in so far as it was grave,
is unchanged. One church firmly repudiates
the schools. Clerics and laymen in other
churches are dissatisfied with them. These
are the facts which call for criticism. Are
those malcontents unreasonable ? That ques-
tion calls for another—ls the social system
to be continued on its present lines 1 If
it is, then the malcontents are not only
not unreasonable, but are strictly logical.
Men whose minds are dark are line brutes.
The man who has mental light may break
them in and saddle them like horses. He
may yoke and harness and whip them before
him till they or he die. Education is light.
This lifts them from the condition of brutes.
It shows them that they can combine, and
that combined they can resist. The social
system has been and is a system wherein the
few drive and the many are driven. The few
fare sumptuously and the many starve. The
few hoard wealth and the many beg. The
few idle and the many slave. Is that
system to last 1 Those who want it to last
should shut oft - education. Educate the
human beasts of burden and they will throw
their riders—will demand to be released
from the shafts. Those who want to work
them as they please should keep them in
ignorance. But if they can’t ? Then they
must, as a first expedient, try bludgeon and
whip. But the beasts can count. They can
combine and resist. Then one of two things
must be given them. They must be pro-
mised a sufficient reward hereafter, or they
must be given a fair share of the gains here.
The latter is to radically change the social
system. The former is to temper education
with religion.
# # *
It is those who desire the social system to
go on as it is going, and who at the same
time agree to impart education and leave
religion out, who are unreasonable and
illogical. Some of them, of course, sup-
pose that secularism in the schools does not
preclude the imparting of religion. They
think religion can be taught outside school
hours. The opinion is tenable, but when
examined it appears much too weak to hang
so momentous an issue upon. Children are
tired when their school-work is over. Clerics,
having been accustomed to make teachers do
school-religion, are averse to turning drudges
themselves. But the R.C. Church takes
wider ground. She puts no store by an
hour’s teaching of religion to children in the
day. She holds that it must be taught all
the day to be of any use. In other words,
she considers that the whole surroundings
of the child should suggest, inspire, keep
alive religion. If this view be sound those
w ho think a couple of hours’ religious in-
struction in the week will be a sufficient
antidote to thirty hours’ secular instruction
must under-estimate the terrible dispropor-
tions which the social system reveals. There
will be thirty reasons a week for pulling
down against two for letting stand.
# * #
For those who want the social system to
stay as it is, or go on as it is going, we see no
bulwark but religion. When we say “reli-
gion ” we use the word in its generally-
received ecclesiastical sense. The bludgeon
and whip are growing powerless. Men have
learned to count and are beginning to know
that, with conditions anything at all like
equal, two can beat one. They are millions
to a few r . Is the tail to wag the dog for
ever? Here is a specimen showing how the
social system works in a great city. In
Paris 3 per cent, of the population are rich,
14 per cent, well-to-do, 28 per cent, a
shade above indigency, and 55 per cent,
indigents. Every city is on the same
lines. There are 83 people out of every
hundred hard up. There are 17 out of every
hundred well off. Why should not the 83
put the 17 against the wall and force a share
of comfort from them ? That is the question
which is up for answer. Education has
written it in letters of fire before their faces,
and Humanity will have no peace until it is
answered. Religion tells why the 83 should
go on suffering. Nothing else tells them to
suffer, and more things than there are stars
in the sky tell them that they should not
suffer.
% # #
The first fruits of secular education,
divorced from religion, are likely to be to an
extent unwholesome. As in everything else,
to leave the beaten track is to run the risk of
going astray. But it is better to run the
risk than to keep on going wrong. No
country would be explored if the fear of get-
ting bushed or getting lost were allowed to
rule. The educated mind must take its way.
The educated masses must make their own
channel. The happiness of Humanity, here,
on the earth, not elsewhere, hereafter, must
be the immediate concern. The theory of de-
ferred payment must be blotted out, or in-
terpreted to signify payment, not for suffer-
ing injustices, but for righting wrongs, even
though the spilling of blood be involved in
the work. In going to this goal mistakes
will be made, perhaps crimes will bo per-
pefcrated. Sin has been often the cloudy
portal to a virtuous life. Unsettlement is
certain. With heaven away and hell away,
or existing only as legendary myths, the
educated masses will flounder, toss, for a
time. But, come what will, they must go on.
Enthusiasms will spring, will bud, will
flower. Ends as beautiful as heaven will
disclose themselves, and alternatives lit with
the hissing flames of a more awful Phlegethon
than that which rolled of old, will deter.
* * *
Yon Oettingen, in his “ Moralstatistik,”
shows what a dangerous thing intellectual
power, unrestrained by any other influence,
is. At least, he tries to show that. He
directs attention to those cities of Europe in
which education is most liberally diffused,
and to those classes of society among which
mental culture is most highly developed.
Mecklenburg, .Saxony, Berlin, Hamburg,
Leipsic, Dresden, and Paris are all brought
forward. In each of these cities he shows
that crime and education keep step. He
shows that in Saxony the marriage-rate is
decreasing, divorce is increasing, and illegiti-
macy is increasing.' In seven years assaults
and murders rose by 556 per cent., and
outrages on children by 918 per. cent.
Criminals under eighteen years of age in-
creased by 430 per cent., and child-criminals
by 100 per cent. Mecklenburg is bad, Bavaria
is worse. In Berlin, art and literature fur-
nish 2 per cent, of the marriages and 30 per
cent, of the divorces. In Paris, the same
classes give 2 4 per cent, to the marriage-
rate and 23 per cent, to the divorce. But
figures will prove anything and everything.
The deductions to be drawn from Australian
figures is in a precisely opposite direction.
# * *
The inference Oettingen wants drawn is
that mental culture, unless other principles
have play, makes criminals. He supposes
culture general, and then sees in his mind’s
eye a generation of lecherous bachelors, lewd
spinsters, foul youths, and outraged children.
Oettingen ’s fault lies in taking the aspect of
the troubled dawn for the aspect of the
entire day. Burke and Wills died in their
attempt to pierce the wilderness. Where
Burke lay down, revolver in hand, there is
now a township, where men work and
children play. When the old standards
have been set aside there will, we admit,
arise obliquities of judgment and vagaries
of will. But onward man must march. The
obliquities and vagaries are evidences that
his path is new, but they do not prove that
beyond them there does not roll a tranquil
sea, and there does not lie a peaceful plain.
Place aux Dames.
Women, when they undertake to express a national
characteristic, always express it in a more ex-
aggerated fashion than do men. Indeed, national
characteristics are summarised from the world’s
experience of the male units that go to make up
nations, it being assumed that women are, in
nearly all cases, colourless replicas of the men :
where they differentiate, it is as hyperbolic copies.
The squaws of Sioux and Choctaw braves tortured
their husbands’ prisoners with a refinement of
cruelty and a diabolical ingenuity that the male
mind could neither have originated in thought or
perfected in practice. The German women who
killed themselves and their children rather than
survive as slaves the male adults who had been cut
down by a ruthless conqueror, were the supreme
female expression of the Teuton sentiment of
courage, loyalty, and solidarity. Volumnia and
Virgilia were the embodiment, in the persons of
Roman matrons of the great qualities that took
form in forcible and grand fashion beneath the
breastplate of Coriolan us. The devotion of a Sophia
Perovskaia or a Vera Sazulich is woman’s
“ one better ” in the cause of human liberty. The
French Mnenad who braved and flouted royalty at
Versailles w'as a feminine side to famished rebel-
lion, whose voice caused the throne of the Carets
to rock on its base almost before the men of the
Revolution had awakened to the idea of revolt-
The petroleuse of the Commune was a hundred-
fold more visible in the demand for a city-state
than her Communistic mate. When woman slips
into the gutter of social life she strikes no level.
.She goes down the depth far below that occupied
by men beneath the curse of ostracism. The
American woman is a refined American man,
and she carries into the matrimonial market the
commercial spirit which he carries into Wall-
street. A Yankee’s politeness, courtesy, trouble
of an excessive character, give positive pleasure
when they are expended upon a man with whom
he intends doing “ business.” The Yankee
girl “bosses” the marriage market of the
Continent simply because she studies the
laws of supply and demand, presents a desir-
able article, and spares no excess of trouble to
gratify the man with whom she intends doing
“business” —whom she determines to marry.
Every man-type has its accompanying woman-type
which tries to catch up to and surpass the former.
The Australian larrikin is extinguished by the
Australian larrikiness. In cases of exaggerated
social development a certain type of woman who
enters the lists against man very speedily beats its
male rival, nay, leaves it leagues behind,
* * #
The age is an age of brutality. We love to
linger over the morbid. We go out of our way to
rake up diseased details and abnormal sensations—
and lovely woman goes with us. The ladies crowd
to racecourses where hardly a race takes place
without an accident. Ladies of the great world
while away the mornings in Paris by passing in
review the white faces of the suicides fished
out of the Seine. In the afternoon the ladies
turn their backs upon the morgue for the cheerful
relaxation of the dissecting-room. In the terribly
brutal days of Rome’s decline the vanquished
gladiator knew that there was no mercy to bo
hoped for from the patrician Latin dames, upon
whose lovely faces only a cold sneer of contempt
could be read, from whose beautiful hands de-
pended a thumb whose position wrote * 1 murder ”
in the air. In America fast wealthy women
assemble at prize-fights and survey the points and
make bets on the prowess of the combatants. It
is, however, in the criminal court that the morbid
curiosity of these nineteenth-century days runs
riot. The murderer is surrounded with a halo of
mystery. We flock in gregarious hordes to the
house or to the well, to the fen or to the field
where the crime is said to have been committed.
We linger over the dwelling where the murderer
is said to have first been struck with the idea of
committing the criminal act. We follow him
with a freezing fascination throughout his
tortuous and ensanguined career. We gloat with
a fearful joy over every little particular that great
educator the press, fishes out of the cess-pool of
his past. We feel vaguely that life would be a
dreary blank if somebody didn’t sin for the grati-
fication and intellectual amusement of the many.
And lovely woman keeps us assiduous company.
When somebody sanctified with the odour of
criminal notoriety is put on trial for his or her
life we flock to the court and listen with greedy
ears to horrifying or salacious evidence. If we do
not go ourself we send our useful servant, the
“evening” pressman, to describe with pen and
pencil the proceedings for us. If the prisoner
is not forthcoming there is raised a howl
of rage like the scream of a beast of prey
disappointed of his meal of raw meat. When
Mrs. Maybkick, the husband-poisoner, was ex-
pected to be examined at the coronial inquiry in
England the other day, upwards of 80 duly-
authorised newspaper-men put in an appearance*
The big dailies sent special reporters, the illustra-
ted journals artists, and the medical weeklies,
experts on poisoning; besides which there were
correspondents and “liners” galore. Naively
remarks one of the “ correspondents ” :—“ The
great event of the day—the appearance in open
court of the accused lady—did not come off, to the
acute regret of the artists, who had made prepara-
tions to specially sketch her ; and to the infinite
disappointment of the public, whose curiosity to
see her had been increased by the air of mystery
which has hitherto surrounded her movements.”
# # *
And now in Australia women are going to
murder-trials and being “ accommodated with
seats near the Bench.”
The N.S.W. Judges and the N.S.W.
Public.
Simple-minded people have imagined that the
suspension from practice for twelve months of
Mr. Attorney Levien, and his subsequent resigna-
tion of his seat in the New South Wales Parlia-
ment, would have the effect of inducing the New
South Wales Legislature to do something to
curtail the enormous and anti-democratic powers
claimed by the Supreme Court, and to make
some other very necessary legal reforms.
What has been done towards this object ?
In Parliament a few hysterical tears were wept
by the legal victim who, between his sighs,
diplomatically protested his great respect for the
Court that had knocked him out of its sawed ring,
and thus deprived him of the means of earning his
living for twelve months. A few words of sym-
pathy were uttered by that political enigma,
Attorney Abbott, M.P., who informed his brother
legislators that he—even he—-had very nearly
found himself in a similar position; but, at
the same time, he did not wish to say
anything disrespectful of the Supreme Court.
Of course not. A#d then Premier Parkes
chimed in with his sympathy for Mr.
Levien ; and his satirical or hypocritical ex-
pression of pleasure that the honour and dignity
of the Supreme Court had been duly acknowledged
by the gentlemen who had preceded him. After
which Mr. Levien went to Tamworth, got re*
elected, and the little pantomime was all over.
What are the facts ? Mr. Levien is suffering sus-
pension for an offence against legal technicalities,
but which it has never been alleged injured the
public. His partner, Mr. Rawlings, has been
fined £lOO, and threatened with imprisonment if
he repeats his offence. It lias never been shown
that the public suffered by this partnership.
On the contrary, it has been publicly stated
that the latter gentleman’s probity and industry
in the conduct of business in Parramatta were
an absolute gain to that town. If such was
the case, why should not the right of a
Court to impose penalties for what at most has
been a breach of legal etiquette be challenged ?
Mr. Levien’s resignation was either a protest
against the authority of the Supreme Court to act
as it did, or a protest against the law which gave the
Court such an authority. If it did not mean this,
what did it mean ? and wherein lay the necessity
for his resignation ? If it did mean this, why are
not some steps being taken to limit the power the
Judges of the Supreme Court claim ; or to repeal
the obnoxious laws upon which their claim is
based ? We have been told by the Judges
within the past few months that under sec-
tion 13 of some Act passed in Queen Vic-
toria’s reign a layman filling in an ordinary
lease renders himself liable to a penalty of
£lOO for contempt of Court. We have been told
that a barbarous Act enacted 130 years ago when
the second George was King, renders a person
performing any duty of a legal nature not only
liable to imprisonment, but makes it imperative
that he should be treated as a criminal whilst so
imprisoned. The public have also been in-
formed that their Honors, the Judges of the
Supreme Court intend to enforce the provisions
of this fine old Act. It is well we should know
our liability and their Honors’ kindly intentions,
in order that we may at once set about repealing
laws that are a menace to our liberty and an insult
to our intelligence. A short Bill of half-a-dozen
lines would suffice to repeal the ancient Georgian
Statute and the 13th section of the Victorian law.
But the public need not expect even that simple
measure from lawyers who deplore their wrongs,
while, for the sake of retaining their privileges,
they fawn upon the hand that strikes them.
Neither can it be expected from a Premier who
sees in such conduct a subject for congratulation.
But that something of the sort should be done,
and that without delay, is a fact plain enough to
all but lawyers.


Trial by Judge.
James Morrison has been sentenced to be hanged,
and the sentence will probably be carried out, not-
withstanding the jury’s recommendation to mercy.
The Judge held out no hope of mercy, and the
New South Wales Executive Council will be
largely influenced in their consideration of the
case by the views of the Judge. The Press of
Sydney even expressed considerable surprise that
the jury could he so absurdly illogical ds to rscom-
mend to mercy so great a criminal as Morrison,
and expressed that surprise so strongly that the
“Foreman of the Jury ” felt called upon to ex-
plain, m a daily paper, the argumentation by
which the jury who tried Morrison’s case arrived
at their decision. Jho chief reasons for the recoin -
mendation to mercy were that there was not
sufficient evidence of burglarious intention; and
that the shot was fired under the influence of fear.
The jury were, therefore, of opinion that the crime
did not deserve the penalty of death. The
“Foreman’s ” letter concludes thus
“ They would have brought in a verdict of manslaughter
had they not been directed by the Judge that such a ver-
dict could only properly be arrived at if they were satisfied
that the constable was not justified in making the arrest.
While, therefore, feeling hound hy legal technicalities to
return a verdict of murder, they accompanied it with a
strong recommendation to mercy in the hope that the
recommendation would receive due consideration at the
hands of those responsible.”
In all probability history will repeat itself, and
Morrison will be hanged to satisfy, in the words
of the foreman, ’ a verdict given by a jury of his
peers who felt “ bound by legal technicalities ” in
their finding,
* % *
It may be legal to hang Morrison after this;
but the verdict of the jury very clearly differen-
tiates his deed (done in hot blood and under
circumstances concerning which there can never
be anything like moral certainty) from deliberate
murder, such as that consummated not very long
since by Louisa Collins, and in whose case
the jury added no rider recommending the
prisoner to the mercy of the Executive. Indeed,
Morrison’s trial was rather a trial by Judge than
by jury. The jury intended, according to their
foreman’s letter, to bring in a verdict of man-
slaughter, but they were over-ruled by a considera-
tion of a legal technically pointed out by the
Judge, touching the justification of a certain con-
stable to make a certain arrest. In this case the
Judge was clearly acting the part of public prose-
cutor just as the Judges in Erance exert them-
selves not only in the decision of oases but in the
sifting out of criminal evidence by which to con-
vict the prisoner. The Judge, in passing sentence
upon Morrison, infers burglarious intent,
yet the jury consider on the contrary that
there was “no evidence ” of burglarious in-
tent, and this is practically part of their verdict.
According to the verdict so arrived at how can
Morrison be hanged in consonance with the
spirit of British law, which provides that a man
shall be dealt with according to the finding of the
people represented by a jury selected from them ’
Of course, it may be retorted that the Judge can
deal only with the verdict and not with the
processes of reasoning by which it was arrived at.
But this is a “part” of the verdict, and we take it
that justice is the great desideratum; if so, let provi-
sion be made for the information of the Judge as
to how a verdict is arrived at by the jury.
* * #
We have no interest in Morrison’s fate beyond
that of his case embodying a principle, and, in
fact, his execution or otherwise will have been
considered and decided before the publication of
these remarks. _ We do contend, however, that
if he is hanged it will not be in accordance with
the evident intention of the jury, and the very
essence of British law is that a man accused of
a capital misdemeanour be tried and convicted by
a jury of his peers. Of course, we might make
Morrison’s case an opportunity of attacking the
principle of capital punishment altogether. We
might point out that while this man has been
under arrest with the apparent certainty of the
gallows before him burglaries have been goingon all
around him, and that Sydney at the present moment
seems to be suffering from an absolute burglary-
craze. We certainly cannot refrain from asking
why Morrison should be hanged rather than im-
prisoned for life ? The logic of capital punishment
is that it deters, yet Morrison’s impending fate
has apparently not had that effect. In regard
to its effect upon the community perpetual im-
prisonment is infinitely to be preferred to capital
punishment. The crime and its consequences are
never effaced from the public mind when a man’s
liberty is for ever taken from him. The wages of
sin are then perennial. To-day a man is hanged
—nine days hence his name is lost and his crime
forgotten. Put him in gaol and his case becomes
historic. Who is the more remembered, Bertrand,
who sinned twenty-three years ago, or Hewart,
".’ho was hanged—his execution, under all the
circumstances, was a savage and wanton
act not twenty-three months back? And
why has Bertrand been in gaol twenty)
three years ? There is hardly a citizen of
Sydney who could not answer : “He is there
tor having robbed a friend of his wife and of
Ins life.” Some may say that Bertrand remains
in gaol because influential people whom Bertrand
Airu red are determin ed to prevent his getting out.
Whatever the reason may be the effect is the same
Bertrand remains in gaol, and people remem-
ber his crime and its punishment; although we
admit that it is a ghastly thing that an argument
based on vengeance should be advanced as
a reason for his detention. It is a still
more ghastly fact that such an argument
should be believed. But suppose it true;
suppose that the administration of justice
m New South Wales has descended to so lowa
level that a prisoner can be kept in gaol for private
reasons and suffer all the years of his life a living
death, is no good purpose served ? Which would
most deter—admitting, of course, that any punish-
ment has any real deterrent effect—capital punish-
ment or life-long incarceration in a prison tomb ?
-dertrand’s name and Bertrand’s fate conjure
up the memory of his crime with all its horrible
details, and will continue to do so long after the
name and the fate of the equally malignant
Dons a Collins is buried in oblivion.
* * #
tut suppose that the recommendation of the
jury is disregarded in Morrison’s case —what will
lappen ? Why this : Juries will, when they de-
• ire mercy extended, absolutely acquit instead of
convicting with a reservation ; they will rather
commit perjury than take a hand in what they re-
rffi ‘li m \ u ‘der —they will perjure themselves
acuer than have a share in murder sanctioned by
he letter of a worn-out law. That will happen
‘ gam which happened when Frank Johns was re-
ommended to mercy. The recommendation was
When Constable Hrmi was butchered
* ' --auterbury a few weeks afterwards the jury
d l * 3 case disregarded utterly the direc-
-11 °* *mc Judge and simply brought iu a verdict
it in a case which was far worse
an that of Morrison, inasmuch as two persons
m the deed. If the Executive dis-
ewd the recommendations of juries, juries will
cease to consider the recommendations covertly
made in the Judges’ summings-up. They will
have no moral option.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Public Lungs.
1 he people of New South Wales are indebted to a
curious concatenation of circumstances to have left
to them m their capital city any natural beauty
at all. One Governor wanted a space to feed his
cow 8 m hence the Domain. The people asked
tor a cow-reserve—and received Moore Park. \
signal station was wanted—hence the Flagstaff
Gardens. ♦ A Premier wished to mark the Centen-
nial year as the year also of his reign—hence the
.Lachlan Water Reserve, alias the Centennial
. a , • A racecourse was a desideratum ; after it
had survived its use as such it became Hyde Park.
Selfishness and fortuity have given Sydney its
parks. Selfishness and commercialism threaten
to deprive her of them. Utility—so-called—is a
brutal iconoclast. A year or so ago, and from the
rising ground of the Domain, the eye of the way-
farer rested on a verdant little gem known as
Larden Island, an old cemetery, the fruit-garden
of the first astronomer New South Wales ever
had, the spot upon which were reared the first
peach-trees of Australia. The spirit of ugli
ness entered into the Legislature of the country
and Garden Island was forthwith robbed of its
beauty and given oyer to the vandals of utility,
io-day it is an unsightly heap of galvanised-iron
and marine-store sheds, which look as if they had
been imported bodily from Tilbury on the Thames,
io-morrow, unless the people awake instantly to
the situation, Hyde Park will share the fate of
Garden Island. It is merely a question of man-
hood suffrage, and as the people to be benefited
are the people who can afford to live m the
suburbs, commercialism will probably gain the
day — by virtue of its plural vote. This can be
prevented only by strenuous popular agitation,
such as would be set in motion by the people of
London, Paris, or Vienna, if any of the popular
park-resorts of these capitals were threatened in a
similar manner. But the people must be instant
and earnest. Supineness now will be a mistake
which will be regretted for ever. Posterity will
curse its fathers for allowing a public lung to be
destroyed in the interests of a mere section
of the community The desecration of a park
can take place only once ; its rehabilita-
tion never. The selfishness of the past is
the chronic misery of the present. All around
Sydney, we find the foreshores wrested from
the public and annexed by private capi-
talists. Everywhere we find densely-populated
suburbs; houses huddled breathlessly together;
back-yard, all too much curtailed, shedding its
poisonous vapour into back-yard. Acres of bricks
and mortar are gasping for air. Streets upon
streets yearn everywhere for a bit of greenery.
Ths hideous lines of chimney-tops protest with
stifling breath against the destruction all around
of trees. How much does a glimpse of the ver-
dancy of the Domain modify the horrors of
Woolloomooloo ? What connection is there be-
tween Sydney’s strident-voiced virago and the
sogginess of streets devoid of natural beauty? Yet
Sydney is threatened with the loss of Hyde Park.
The capitalistic Press of Sydney has given its
consent to the desecration—in the sacred name of
Utility. To whom will a station-shed of a citv
railway in Hyde Park be useful ? To a small sec-
tion of the community ; to the commercial element
that desires to save five minutes of the time that
is said to be money in getting to the scene of its
operations. For this additional five minutes
the entire people of Sydney; nay, of New South
\V ales, of Australia, are to be sacrificed. The
people everywhere who have no vested interests in
the matter are to be made to bear the burden of
the Capitalists’ convenience. For a miserable
question of expedience a public lung must be
atrophied! To enable a man to extort an extra
shilling or so in the course of his daily business,
and to get a higher price for the suburban allot-
ment, the eternal spirit of beauty is to be cramped,
cooped up, and imprisoned. The move of the
Utilitarian will be undemonstrative and insidious.
The railway-sheds will be erected in the midst of
a glorious summer pleasure-space, in the very teeth
of the promenaders who escape from the dusty
streets of the city to enjoy a bit of Nature daily,
almost before the public know that the step has
been taken. The people of New South Wales had
better arouse themselves before it is too late;
Sydney has too few city lungs to allow one of the
choicest to be stolen in a moment of apathy, and
a word to-day will save an aeon of useless regret in
the future.
—
Unrecovered Boodle.
Low, vulgar thieves and swindlers have a pretty
rough time of it in New South Wales, and their
punishment varies from one month’s hard to penal
servitude for life with 100 lashes. But gentle-
manly forgers and larcenists manage to walk
through the whole code with impunity and enor-
mous profit. It is a little peculiarity of this com-
munity that while it howls itself hoarse in its
fierce rage against rude Woolloomooloo criminals,
it greets with complacency the wholesale crime of
the “ well-connected. ’’ The latest case in point
is included in the Casual Labour proceedings.
We make no reference whatsoever here to the
Hon. John Davies. He has faced the charge
brought against him by the Commissioners in their
progress report and a competent State tribunal has
declared that there is not the shadow of a case. But
in the final report there are repeated charges of
forgery, conspiracy to defraud, larceny, embezzle-
ment, and false pretences sworn to by various
witnesses and established by what in print seems
to be the clearest evidence. From that report
there can be no doubt whatever that the State
was robbed by somebody to the extent of tens of
thousands of pounds, and that more than one
Government official assisted in the process and
shared the proceeds. A lot of the stealing was
done in such a clumsy, careless fashion that it
would be the simplest thing in the world to put
the coping stone of penal servitude on to this
edifice of crime. Yet, in spite of all this, nothing
whatever has been done to requite the guilty crew.
The Government would not have moved against
John Davies had they not been driven to
action by the Opposition, and since his prose-
cution and acquittal Government and Oppo-
sition alike seem to have resolved to let
the report remain a revelation, but nothing
more. 1 low the clean, or reputedly clean, members
of the Ministry can allow such accusations to pass
is a mystery of the largest size and fiercest species.
The fact that others of the Government- si do are
willing to condone anything done by Casual
Labi >ur officers is neither strange nor inexplicable.
Bure sympathy and envious admiration are the
only emotions with which the report could inspire
some politicians whom we wot of. But if a solid
sympathy with individuals prevents the prosecu-
tion of some apparently guilty persons, there yet
iemams the question why money and money’s
orth, acquired from the State without any con-
sideration, should not be recovered by legal action?
it is made sufficiently clear, assuming the evidence
to be true, that the Treasury was “had ’’for many
thousands by some very ingenious gentlemen, who
could be made to disgorge if leg-al pressure were
brought to bear. This neglect to recover the
plundered property of the State or to prosecute
the plunderers is a matter so serious as to justify
the Opposition in challenging the Government.
1 he policy of the Xew South Wales Protectionists
has been to prop up Paukes till the Land Bill has
passed both Houses, when they will stand back
and let him fall with a sickening thud ; but the
Land Bill may be too dearly bought if its price is
the continuance of “ honest Government ” in the
interests of bqodlers of the kind indicated in the
G.L.B. Commission report.
The Mount Kembla Strike.
Ar.sTEAi.iA is the boasted land of Democracy. We
pose as a free people and declare that broadcloth
makes no more difference than fustian to the limbs
it covers. We say, whatever advantages the patri-
cian may have over the serf in the old world, here
c Australia, at least, the bullock-driver is as good
as the lord ; here the duke can’t crow over the
dustman. Yet in the Mount Kembla strike affair
what do we find ? Why, this—that Capital, dis-
appointed in the amount of profit it expects to
make out of the application of Labour, over
which it has a lien, to the sources of production,
has the right to go to the crowded centres of the
old world and engage, comparatively with local
pauper labour, under a contract extending over
two years, and by its aid to cut down the market
rate of wages in Australia to the bare subsis-
tence-level. Of course when the imported-labour
operates in a new land, under new conditions, it
begins to awaken to the fact that it has been “ got
at. ” Every subtraction from its wages, week by
week, to liquidate the cost of its transportation
to a country where it is expected that its competi-
tion will act derogatively to local labour, is felt
like a dagger-thrust; and when local labour revolts,
braving legal consequences, it breaks its contract
and revolts, too. Herein comes another anomaly
m a boasted democratic community. The Masters’
and Servants’ Act is an Act manufactured by
masters, fortunate enough to get seats in Parlia-
ment, for the control of the servants who sent
them there. If the master, whether represented
by an individual or a company, breaks any part of
a contract, the servant can proceed only for re-
30very of damages, but a servant proceeded
against by a master under the criminal section of
the Act, for a violation of contract, can be
sent to gaol; and this, not for the commission of
anything that can come under the head of crime,
fourteen Scotch miners now stand, or last week
stood, in the unenviable position of having by law
rendered themselves liable to incarceration with
rogues and vagabonds in a common gaol. Of course,
It was very wrong of them to come out to Australia
and by their action assist in the reduction of the
market-rate of wages, but it was not their fault so
much as their misfortune. They were hard-
pressed and crowded out. Like drowning men
they were ready to catch at any straw that floated
past them, and apparently, as soon as they awoke
to the true meaning of their position, they acted
the part of men and went on strike with their
Australian comrades, prepared to stand or fall by
their action. The truth is, it is our own fault, and
only ours. We have manhood suffrage and we are
too sleepy to exercise it properly. We ought to send
men to Parliament pledged to pass an Act making
niy labour agreements or contracts absolutely inva-
lid unless entered upon by both parties in the country
in which they are to be operative. We protect the
lawyer, the parson, and the doctor, by all sorts of
rules and regulations that permit the individuals
Following these “trades” to conserve the results
of their activity against outside competition ; we
;alk about Protection for the purpose of benefiting
the working-man, and yet we allow capital to ex-
ploit labour at every turn. Xq man is allowed to
rssault property when it consists of real or per-
sonal estate. Thieves, robbers, burglars and high-
waymen are punished with the utmost rigour of
the law, and yet we allow property which consists
only of muscle to be pillaged at every hand. Xay,
when it is so pillaged we are accustomed to make
a boast of our free institutions, and to mount a
pedestal for the purpose of trumpeting forth some
specious twaddle about our country being free to
the intelligent workman of every country beneath
the sun. Let us cease this nonsense and begin
our reforms in a practical direction. Here are two
moves for the energetic patriot in Parliament who
wants to do some good for his country ; remodel
the Masters’ and Servants’ Act from the stand-
point of the servant, and pass a law limiting the
operation of labour contracts to the country in
which they are entered into by the contracting
parties. Verb. sap.
♦
Agriculture in Xew South Wales is not quite
dead enough to be inquested, but it is getting on
that way. The decreased acreage under cultiva-
tion last year is a fact that the Freetrade and
Liberal Association has hitherto met with an
ominous silence, but doubtless an explanation will
be forthcoming to the effect that farmers, having-
made their fortunes, have ceased to condescend to
the mean labour of ploughing. So small a thing
as a decrease of 49,007 acres in cultivation is easily
disposed of, and so is the further fact that whereas
389,390 acres bore wheat in 1888, only 304,803
acres were cropped in 1889. Maize occupies 5000
acres less; in consequence of the South African
import of nigger-grown corn and barley it was
cultivated to the extent of 3318 acres only—
that is less than in any recorded year, and
2344 acres less than in 1877. Oats are in the
same case, only more so, the record showing 7984
acres for 1889 against 21,828 acres in 1877. Rye
has decreased from 1277 acres 22 years ago to 512
acres in 1889. Of potatoes 5500 acres less were
grown than in 1888, and only 1248 acres more than
in 1877. Oaten hay was a smaller crop than in
any year since 1881 —fine progress this, but on the
down grade—and lucerne is 3705 acres less than in
’88. Gardens and orchards occupy 20,827 acres,
as against 20,453 in ’77 —a lordly increase of 374
acres, or at the average rate of exactly 17 acres
per year. Protected crops make a splendid show
as compared with those quoted. Since 1877 the
increased acreage attained is as follows Sugar-
cane, 8528—130 per cent. ; tobacco, 4500—1382
per cent.; and vines, 2815 acres, equal to 58 per
cent. The result of the decreased -wheat-produc-
tion was. an import of foreign wheat to the total
of 4,838,018 bushels, the deficiency of the home
supply being equal to 3;> bushels per head
of population—a greater deficiency than in
any year since 1838, except 188(5. In 1888
Xew South Wales paid £704,328 for im-
ported breadstuffs, which makes it abundantly
clear that the decreased production was not -
caused by any deficiency of local demand. As in
the matter of other articles required by the people
Xew South Wales is a -whale in regard to the con-
sumption of breadstuffs, but a very small fish when
it comes to production. She has an appetite that
never wearies, but that hunger profits not her own
producers. The fiscal moral is too obvious to need
any comment.
In a sub-leader dealing with the extra allowance
demanded on behalf of the Queen’s grandchildren,
the Sydney Morning Herald states that “Lin-
coln and Garfield were the victims of frenzied
supporters of democracy.” It does not seem
possible that a greater distortion of the truth could
appear in print. Booth, who shot Lincoln, was
a frenzied supporter ”of the South, and, there-
tore, of slavery, a social state wholly opposed to
the teachings of democracy. Guitkatj, who shot
Garfield, was a madman and a disappointed
billet-hunter, whose deeds and utterances at no
betrayed a. “ frenzied support of democracy. ”
The S.M.H. is, however, a “frenzied supporter”
of 1 roperty, and, therefore, imagines that Conser-
vatism is entitled to use any weapon to beat the
democratic dog with.
Now don't be deluded into supposing that a mil-
lion and a-lialf —the official figures—represents all
Queen Victoria’s money. That is only her
(admitted) savings out of the wages. The miser
Neild left her half-a-million 30 years ago. How-
much is it now ? However, the Queen does not
rank with the Rothschilds and Vanderbilts,
She does her best, but cannot even equal Miss
Green, of the New York Stock Lx change, re-
ported to be worth eight millions—which we take
to be an exaggeration. The Roth sc hi l d ren are
credited with a hundred millions ! This is virtually
joint-stock. What a power ! Crocker, one of
the Comstock silver millionaires, in it with
Maokay, Fair, and Flood, died lately. He
brought up his sons to trades, declaring that in
50 years’ time not a millionaire would be allowed
on earth. See two capital papers in the late
numbers of Revue des Deux Mondes, by M.
Varigny, on the “Globe’s Millionaires.” There
are 800 worth over a million sterling. As for
Queen Victoria, it is evident that Prince. Albert
warned her in the revolutionary year, 1848, that
they must begin to save away as hard as they
could, because the throne was so precarious. She
is ready for the evil day with a horde of helpless
progeny.
♦
At the annual meeting of the National Associa-
tion for promoting State Colonisation the Earl of
Meath, who presided, declared that colonisation
differed from emigration. Here he was right—
the former includes the latter. Colonisation-
West Australia promises to afford an example—
means the seizing on various pretexts of tracts of
fertile but uncultivated country, the placing on
them of large numbers of justly discontented, ill
fed, ill-housed, ill-clad people, thus clearing the
home atmosphere and populating the new land.
Then, when these unhappy wretches have done then-
work, subdued forests, irrigated deserts, exter-
minated the original owners and w ild animals of
the country, when everyone is prosperous and
contented, the State colonisation is completed by
shipping out all the titled nincompoops and blue-
blooded loafers for whom no sinecures can be
found in the mother country, to “do the bossing,”
to fill the fat’ places, and grind the toilers down
into a similar position to that occupied by them
in the land whence they were exiled by a Govern-
ment desirous of evading a growing difficulty.
That is State Colonisation as understood in the
dominions of Queen Victoria.
•
The fact is that Australian Governors are reduced
to mere figureheads, through the use of the Agents-
General. Chief Justice Higinbotham, of Victoria,
is more and more delighted at seeing Australia
come round to his ideas of direct communication
between the English and Australian Governments
without a Governor’s intervention. All a Gover-
nor has to do is to open Parliament, lay founda-
tion-stones, give dinners, balls and all that
mummery, and pose in photos. liOCH got sick of
it. He had been accustomed to govern in the Isle
of Man, but found he couldn’t govern in Victoria
“ wuth a cent.” The Governor is only a gorgeous
kind of cushion, a piece of upholstery. Observe
how the Agents-General are invited to the Spit
head manoeuvres, as if they were ambassadors.
A Song.
AFTER INGOLDSBY.
As I lay a-dreaming, a-dreaming, a-dreaming,
On the crimson couch in the cheery lire's heat,
A maiden, fair and bright,
Came with gentle steps and light,
And knelt to say “ Good night,”
At my feet ;
As I lay a-dreaming, simple prayers did die repeat.
As I lay a-dreaming, a-dreaming, a-dreaming,
That creature fair and bright was the solace of my
years;
The seasons as they went
Left us happy and content,
And my joyfulness found vent
Oft in tears;
As I lay a-dreaming, I was haunted not by fears.
As I lay a-dreaming, a-dreaming, a-dreaming.
More my darling grew like the mother called
Above,
But a i ook of sweet surprise
Was appearing in her eyes,
And her song was as the sighs
Of a dove;
As I lay a-dreaming, the maiden sang of love.
As I lay a-dreaming. a-dreaming, a-dreaming,
Tender were the tale's that a villain came to tell
To the daughter good and true,
With her trusting eyes of blue—
!Twas a devil sent to woo—
Sent from Hell;
As I lay a-dreaming, in her innocence she fell.
As I lay a-dreaming, a-dreaming, a-dreaming,
Never giving heed to a sadness in her tone.
The summer passed away
On its peaceful, drowsy way,
And one cruel autumn day
She had flown ;
As I lay a-dreaming, I was left to live alone.
As I lay a-dreaming, a-dreaming, a-dreaming,
Bitter was the sob of the autumn wind so wild,
And the dying mother’s prayer
Seemed a whisper in the air—
“ You will keep her in your care,
Unde filed ?”
As I lay a-dreaming, shame had come upon our
child.
As T lay a-dreaming, a-dreaming, a-dreaming,
On the crimson couch by the lire burning low,
A figure, clad in white,
('ame with angel footsteps light,
And kissed again “ Good night ”
On my brow;
As I lay a-dreaming, God was caring for her now.
Melbourne.
EDMUND FISHER


For solid comfort, excellent table, cheerful, airy
bedrooms, a central and quiet neighbourhood, commend us
to “THE LANGHAM HOTEL,” WynyardSquare, Sydney.
The Proprietress fully maintains the high reputation this
Hotel has always enjoyed. The terms are very moderate,
and we strongly recommend visitors to the metropolis to
give it a trial.
Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND ®
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, &c., &c.,
SUITABLE FOR
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
W hich he will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates, y A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Street).
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, July 31, 1889.
Mv Dear Moorabinda, —
The prophets say we’re to enjoy an early Spring, for
which I, Sappho, would lie devoutly thankful, if I believed
the weather-tipsters—which I don’t; I still believe that
we must drag our heavy winter gowns about for the usual
span. And shall I let you into the secret how to keep a
heavy skirt off your hips? Hook bodice and skirt
together at the back of the waist. One’s skirt can’t pu l
down then, and the bodice is kept well in place, while it
takes most of the w eight from the waist. And, speaking
of hygienic dressing, a doctor has just writteu.fui exhaiu*
live treatise to prove that tight collars positively conduce
to short-sightedness in children.
At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, the first performance of
“Confusion,” a dreadfully giddy comedy (which perhaps
accounts for the fact that there w r ere five women to every
man in the dress-circle), drew a crowded circle, nicely
dressed, as all first-night circles are. There was a goodly
show of ivory-white silk, mostly relieved with flowers only
and far too much Jubilee red. A pretty gown was a
heliotrope silk draped with heliotrope lace—violets in the
hair and diamond bangles on the wrists; and a sketchy
girl in mauve had a white cloud on, the facsimile ot a
quilt. There is little gorgeous dressing in “Confusion.’’
Kate Bishop wears in the first and second acts a pink shot*
silk morning gown edged with lace over a pleated white
skirt ; and in the third act a wffiite silk trained dinner-
gown, V-shaped with white bows on the shoulder and
white bows-and ends from the front of the waist ; and
Emily Fitzroy’s sea-green frock in the first act fits her like
w ax. 1 had almost forgotten to say that a group of much-
bejewelled Sydney “Sowciety” people who occupied
rather a conspicuous position, made themselves further
so by grimacing and talking in dumb language at friends
in the dress-circle.
On 27th July, the warriors of N.S.W. were hurried into
their clothes for a grand parade before the eye of Major-
General Edwards—who, by the way, is a fine-looking man
with a w'ell-kept grey moustache. There were a good
many carriages on the Park. Lady Carington—who came
up with her little daughters and secretary Helhert—was
warmly wrapped up in a black-figured velvet mantelette
w ith a profusion of fur ; black bonnet with cream aigrette
and strings, white fall, and her hair beautifully arranged,
as usual. Her daughters were dressed alike in fawn cloth
ulsters -toque hats with ornate ribbons to correspond.
The Baron in a black top hat, rode with brother
Rupert—and, by the way, I believe that some people are
frequently much exercised to distinguish “t’other from
w hich ;” indeed, the aide’s airs are so overpowering, and
he rides so very level with His Excellency that he frc.
quently absorbs a goodly proportion of the glassy stare
commonly reserved for the vice-regal image only. The
soldiering was the usual spectacle of various corps of more
or less disciplined men straining themselves to rightly
interpret the hoarse shrieks of their commanders who w ere
crimson in the face, as a rale, and indignant at the loud
merriment of the crowd at their expense : an irreverent
crow d who addressed the various colonels, majors, and so
on, familiarly with, “Hi, Johnny! why don’t yer take
licorish for yer korf ? ” and again, to a veteran officer not
unconnected with the timber-trade: “Turn it up, Wil-
liam, and go back to the saw-mill! ”
From the S.M. Herald :
A PATRIMONIAL.—An up-country Merchant, doing
- L ’ J - a fair business, is desirous of meeting with a
lady having a little means ; age about 40 (widow not
objected to), with a view to above ; open a month.
Address L.0.L., Redfern Post-office.
“Up-country merchant” is perfect, isn’t it? In my
mind’s eye I seem to see the business premises, don’t you?
Probably built of saplings, with the stock-in-trade dis-
played in pickle-bottles and one bag of flour to give an
air of verisimilitude to an otherwise bald and unconvinc-
ing display ! “ Having a little means” is the keynote to
why the “ merchant ” hastens to assumes Hymen’s
flow ery yoke. He is probably tired of advertising for a
male partner.
Apropos of matrimonial advts., if we are to judge from
these there are absolutely “no buyers” for sweet seven-
teen on the Hymeneal stock exchange. There w'ere four
advts. in a “leading” Sydney daily the other morning,
and each of the advertisers required a blushing bride on
the shady side of 30 ! They also unanimously hinted that
“some means” wouldn’t be regarded in the light of a
drawback —which, of course, explains why they think
“ a maiden all the better when she’s tough.” Girls of 40
are always so eager to bestow' themselves and their little
all on the first bifurcated person in a hard hat who comes
along.
Still harping on “ fourteen words for a shilling,” I am
reminded that a recent advt. for “ a lady to teach music
to beginners,” resulted in a shower of ninety-three appli-
cations, some of which stated their terms at 7s. 6d. per
w’eek. The same advertiser recently rushed into print for
a general servant, and one applied, in attire too glittering
to look at in the sunlight, and said she would condescend
to accept the appointment at the rate of 18s. per w'eek !
Thus young women of the “ working classes ” continue to
starve on the outskirt of an overdone profession because
of a foolish idea that it’s more “ genteel ” to be an out-at-
elbow’s teacher of undercrust infants in a bye-street than
an autocratic, w ell-fed cook or housemaid or nursery-maid
on a royal screw in a household that cowers before her.
In a Sydney court recently two breach of promise
actions were heard on the same day. No. 1 (a maiden)
received £5O as full compensation for wear and tear to
her young affections, while No. 2 (a widow) got her
blight appraised at £3OO ! ’Twas ever thus. In all
mailers connubial the relicts keep the inside track.
Copy of advt. from a Sydney daily;—
A MIDDLE-AGED Woman, with means and steady
habits, wishes a place as working Housekeeper to
a working man ; children no object. Apply by letter,
Mrs. Smith, 245 Church-street, Camperdown.
This looks ever so much nicer than the old effete formula
ending “ with a view to matrimony,” doesn’t it ?
I see that a committee has been formed in Melbourne
to raise funds for a presentation to be made to Lady Loch
to testify to the beautiful influence which her ladyship has
exercised on the moral, educational, and artistic taste of
the community. Nevertheless, the large, fat person of
rank over the border continues to wear a yellow bonnet
and remark that the weather is ’ot.
Masonic Lodge, Sydney Tarbolton holds its annual ball
on 7th inst. at West’s Rooms. On Slst July Petersham
Owls held another successful hoot at the local Town Hall.
On the 26th July' the Balmain Rowing Club hall even-
tuated at the Balmain “ talking shop,” when, despite the
fact that the weather was simply awful, the dance was
got through with “ great spirit”—a card of 24 dances to
De Groen’s band being negotiated up to a late hour, while
dresses and refreshments were the subject of almost tear-
ful enthusiasm.
Some of the ugliest women in Melbourne are to be found
amongst the upper ten. The awfulness of the “duty”
dances to be got through by' the local hank clerks render
them all eligible for the martyr’s spiky hat in the sweet by
and by'e. Talking of dancing, there is some talk of doing
away with the necessity for introducing partners at
private dances. Those in favour of the idea say that the
fact of their meeting under the roof of a common friend is
introduction enough, while the cons, say' that some
hostesses give their men friends carte blanche to bring
whom they please, and as young men are not the most
socially' conservative, the result isn’t always happy'. The
case stands as part heard.
The latest is a glove “ with the forefinger so arranged
that the wearer can open it to pick up money, cake, and
fruit, and thus save many a glove from ruin.” Plans and
specifications have been drawn out for a glove of w'hioh
the four fingers and thumb will be all open right down to
the knuckles—to enable Mrs. Portergaff and Miss
O’Hooligan (who gets 18s. a week, shirts given out) to
properly clutch sandwiches at the Government ’Ouse re-
ceptions.
I am glad to hear that Mrs. Robert Brough has quite rc»
covered from her recent indisposition. Apropos of this
popular idol, if all the actresses w r ho are solemnly said to
be her sisters are so related in reality, Mr. Brough’s mother-
in-law must have been in the same predicament as that
historic old person in the shoe.
They say that that pretty New Zealand girl who is such a
“prodigy” of Mrs. Admiral Fairfax’s is engaged to cor*
nuhialise with a gold-buttoned naval person very shortly'.
On the afternoon of the 3rd inst. the Criterion people
intend giving Kowalski a monster benefit. All the stars
in town are going to assist, and I predict a crash.
A groom at an up-country hotel has just become heir,
through the death of his father, to property worth £2OOO
a y'ear, and £12,000 personalty. He ran off to sea when
he was 12 years of age and has not been home since,
though it won’t be long now before he visits the scenes c f
his childhood. Two thousand a year does gild the gables
so, doesn’t it ?
Have you remarked how horribly untidy the “ fashion-
able ” young man now is ? His coat is a square bag, cut
decollette, and mostly of rough cloth—his billow-y neck-
tie is generally awry—his trousers are wide and creased
and on top of all their hagginess he perches a hard round
hat three sizes too small for his generous head ! And
as to the resuscitation of wide continuations, an
American paper caustically comments ;—“Gents’ trousers
are becoming so wide that it will soon be the proper thing
for a lady to take the lead in ascending a staircase.”
I think, were I a man nowadays, I would seek out a
sheltered spot and lie me down and die and leave the
world to the women ! My most recent cross is a “ woman,”
who, writing on the subject of the N.S.W. “Women’s
College Endowment Bill,” suggests that a prize-ring he
included in the arrangements. She says:—“lt may at
first be deemed nonsensical to squander money in this
fashion, but when it is remembered how many of the
weaker sex have been, and are now being, maimed by'
brutes of the opposite sex, it will not, I’m sure, be out of
place to provide tuition in the noble art.” Even could we
use our fists as scientifically as Mr. Foley, and hit below
the belt with unerring precision—what good could we do ?
A fist-contest would end in the “weaker sex” getting even
more artistically maimed than ever. No, indeed, let us
keep to tears, nails, and tongues—and practise straight-
throwing with the cream-jug.
The fourth Sydney Re-union came off at Needs’ rooms on
23rd July, when all were agreed that it was the most en-
joyable of the series. Floor, music, and supper-table were
above criticism; wall-flowers were unknown, and the frocks
were very pretty, a nice gown being of black spotted net
caught here and there with waterlilies.
The reunion held by the members of the Southern
Amateur Theatrical Society the other evening was a great
success. A pretty art gown was in ciel-blue; the long
angel sleeves lined with silver tinsel, blue-plume fan, ai d
a scarlet broche and tulle, fan en suite , was a warm spot
of colour on a cold evening.
It is interesting at Sydney Criterion to sit hard by the
local Farringtons and hear their free glad cackle at the
verbal ingenuities of Mrs. Slipslop. But on a recent occa-
sion, when Mrs. S. urged the advisableness of a “cup of
grace,” one local Malaprop sniggered with the rest and
then turning to her friend asked, “What word could she
mean that time ?”
The concert promoted by Miss Frances Saville in aid oi
the fund to continue the musical education in Germany of
the clever Miss Bessie Doyle was a pronounced success,
and will no doubt result in a substantial addition to the
fund. Two of the chief incidents of the show were
Madame Bentami’s shoulder-straps and the gorgeous smile
with which the Baron—who attended, with Lady' Caring-
ton—greeted a “Champagne Charleyish ” violin perform-
ance by Poussard. By the way, Shakesperian recitations
are out of place at concerts—they are almost out of place
anywhere. To pretend nowadays that y r ou are interested
by them is the rankest hypocrisy. They simply bore an
audience. Even Irving doesn’t give such things when, I am
told, he recites —he knows that people like their amuse-
ment light, and so he throws at them “Eugene Aram’’
or some other short story complete in one chapter.
Lady Carington wore a black silk and lace gown, with
white rich Zouave front and opera cloak of crimson-
striped velvet and plush, relieved with black passemen-
terie ; Miss Walenn also wore black and a crimson opera-
cloak, as apparently did everyone else—at least they all
wore plush opera-cloaks, which have become tiresomely
übiquitous this season : Miss Saville—who got a great re-
ception and showers of vegetables—wore a lovely compli-
cated gown of striped eau-de-nil silk over a jupe of pale-
pink satin, the draperies caught with pink plumes, the
bodice an artistic blending of both colours and ornate
silver spangles, pink-plume fan. She was, too, in excel-
lent “ form’’—her rendering of the “Prayer” from
“ Tannhauser” was sufficient to put one in good humour.
The concert, which I have said was highly successful, was
helped along (amongst others) by Mdmes. Kellermann,
Bentami, and “ Daddy Halliwell.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ J.E.'W.”: Regret your Tasmanian town is so
insanitary. As it is apparently built on a swamp, we con-
sider the only cheap remedy would he a carefully regu-
lated earthquake ... “T. J.L. ” : As you say, tha subscrip-
tions for starving Chinese and Soudan fighters’ funds were
large ; those for deserving objects—the sufferers by the
American and N.S. Wales coal-mine disasters—were very
small; but people who subscribe are, in most instances,
not actuated by humane motives, but by a desire for pub-
licity... “J.A.C.”: What are you giving us ? “ E.H.”
(Walcha); Idyll unsuitable. Most of our readers are
melancholy people, who buy The Bulletin as medicine,
and we care not to increase their w0e5....“ R. 8.” (Mel-
bourne) : We have no stock in wife-beaters and murderers,
but, believing capita! punishment to be immoral, we care
little how it is evaded. In the case you deal with so lengthily,
we differ from you as to the sanity of the murderer
“P.P.C.”; Good. Name and address ?....“ A Patient to
Nurse”: It’s as old as the hills “ W.E.6.” (re Wise):
Advertising scale will be supplied on application
“ E.A.”: Thanks, but we don’t remember having asked
for any papers in connection with the instituti on in ques-
tion “ Emil T.”; It is a good story—of course it is. It
originally appeared in The Bulletin, and is now quoted
from a London paper. An Australian story is no good
until it has been sanctified by a voyage to Hingland.
When we publish a book we will write in the preface :
“ This book is published in London in order that it may
sell in Australia.” “L.S.W.” : So far as we can make out
the opinion is that while Jackson would hold his own in a
Queensberry boxing competition with Sullivan, in a con-
test under London prize-ring rules Jackson would be no
certainty.... “Ah Ding” :By no means up to standard,
In the first place it would require absolute genius to
make anything readable out of so trumpery an incident...
“X.”: Excellent “Thinker”: 1. For telescopic re-
searches on the other side of space refer to Russell or
Ellery. 2. Yes, in “ Don Juan,” which is an abstract of all
Byron could remember at the time “E.L.A.” ; Better
consult a good solicitor. Your case is a very common one.
You have plenty of money and a good-looking wife ; there-
fore you have lots of friends. Some of your friends are
“mashed” on your wife and some are “mashed” on your
whisky, and some like both your wife and your whisky.
Go and study human nature in the Divorce-court. Judge
Windeyer will let you in if you are very civil and take
your hat off. .. “F.W.M.” : Tyson is not dead; on the
contrary, he is very much alive. We can’t tell you on the
instant where he was born. It doesn’t very much matter,
anyhow ; the great fact is that he is here, is worth six or
seven millions, and has come to stay. And, besides, there’s
the guinea-pig-juice elixir of immortality coming along..
“O. Johnson”; Not so. On the contrary, there can be
very little doubt that Parkes’ proposed elective Upper
Chamber is a mere dodge to shift the battle-cry at next
election from Freetrade or Payment of Members to a non-
party issue that will enable him to go back to the
House with a compact majority—which will by the
Foreign-trade faction immediately he claimed as the
people’s confirmation of an existing tariff law “X.X.”:
On the turf, a “dead bird” means a moral certain tv.
Journalistically; it means an immoral certainty. Pro-
prietor Evans’ comparison between his efforts to please
and those of the man in the fable who was taking an ass
to market is not wholly perfect. The-Esopian ass was
alive, while Evans' ass is a dead (and putrescent) birden...
“ 8.8.” : Grieved we can’t please you by advocating the
importation of Lome. Madame won’t come on account of
“ the distance,” and we don’t know how that can be
abbreviated except by towing Great Britain into Hobson’s
Bay or Port Jackson—which would alter our climate.
Australia being too big to dump into the English Channel,
we reckon we’ll have to do without Lome and Co
“John Jones ” (Teralba) : Many thanks for letter, but we
haven’t seen the clipping ...“James G.” (Liverpool);
Letter unintelligible “ E.K.8.” (Hillgrove): The
“pirated” illustration consisted of a purely me-
chanical drawing accompanying an advertisement....
“John Sander” (Kooringa): Yes, they are bona fide.
Any Sydney friend of yours may see them drawn oii ap-
plication to the promoter “Richard S.”: Sorry we
can’t help you. A man would require cast-iron cheek to
champion Fox’s paper “ Francis M‘D.” : Thanks.
Mistake rectified....“ W.0.R.” (Gympie) : Will read and
let you know.... “ Obediah Oilcake ” : Thanks, it will be
a paragraph....“ J,G.K.” (P.D.) : Will write you a note.
IMany letters held over.]
The man who planted those bags of
sovereigns, stolen from the Iberia, under Williams-
town pier, sings, “There is nae luck about the
mouse. ”
When the new Post-office Street is opened
and all N.S.W. gets up on its hind legs to glorify
Sir Daniel O’Connor, let not Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine be forgotten in the day of general re-
joicing. Without it no P.M.G. could have faced
the tempest provided by his temerity.
The O’Sullivan points out that N. S. Wales,
the oldest of the Australias, after enjoying
representative institutions for 33 years, is still a
generation behind the other Australian provinces
in political education. She has no local govern-
ment for the country districts ; her Legislative
Council is a relic of Toryism ; her electoral law
is demoralised ; she is the victim of a centrali-
sing system worked in the interests of Sydney
ah no ; her criminal code is a disgrace to civilisa-
tion ; her mining interest is neglected ; her great
fishing grounds are undeveloped ; her agricul-
tural industry is languishing; and finally, the
Government is an organised hypocrisy, preaching
Freetrade but acting on Protectionist lines when-
ever it dares.
In the seduction case, Solomon v. Gersen,
heard at Sydney Supreme Court, the plaintiff got
a verdict for £2so—
most naughty musician named Gersen,
Played larks with a pleasing young persen;
His conduct so shifty
Has cost him two-fifty—
And now the said Gersen is cursen.
When plaintiffiy told was the story
Of a damsel betrayed con amove,
And a verdict recorded,
That sum was awarded
For .Solomon’s honour and glory.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Pepita.”
Her Majesty’s “Confusion.”
Opera House ... “Martha.”
Criterion “Joseph’s Sweetheart.”
Academy op Music. European Celebrities.
Waxworks “Jo-Jo.”
Metropolitan Skating Rink Ultimo.
Elite Skating Rink Redfern.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Silver King.”
Princess’ “ The Grasshopper.”
Opera House Silbons.
Alexandra “ East Lynne.”
Victoria Hall Combination Minstrels.
St. George’s Hall “ Skipped by Moonlight.”
In the matter of emoluments, it is better
to be a dog-faced boy than a bishop. Happily, no
bishop has yet been blessed with cranial peculiari-
ties good enough to compete with him, for no
prelate could stand the test of examination which
Jo-Jo has to undergo and keep his ordination
vows. Old men and maidens take astounding
liberties with the youth, who is as gentle in
manner as he is unmistakeably doggy in appear-
ance. Jo-Jo is as sound as Mount Morgan shares,
and the Waxworks are not in it. Übini, the flea-
man, patters along, forceps in hand, wherewith to
lift the particular flea he wants for the purpose of
illustrating his assertion, that a healthy, well-
nourished flea, of no particular pedigree, will make
a suffering human body, many million times its
own weight, sit up and organise itself into a search
party, and fire off cpiotations which were heard in
Egypt when the Sphinx was a baby. Side-shows
are many and various under the present regime at
the Waxworks —Frank Clark’s expansive smile at
the receipt of custom being one of them; and
another, the old lady, who is nearly always there
when the agile flea totes his load across the card-
board arena, a fierce longing in her eye. and a
moist index finger.
# fle * «
Lecocq’s new opera of “Pepita” is an-
nounced for Saturday at the Royal, where, in the
meantime, the “Yeomen of the Guard” parade
nightly on the Tower green, and Elsie Maynard is
melodiously married every time with but little less
knowledge of the bridegroom than is possessed by
the everyday block patroller, who says “Yes ” on
the first chance in case another may never be. A new
operatic star looms above the horizon in Miss
Helen Kinnaird, recently imported by the Trio.
ffc % * %
Joseph and his Sweetheart and the
Criterion proprietary generally have been having
a good time, wet nights and chilled susceptibilities
notwithstanding. The scarlet-and-swagger element
of Saturday’s Review pervaded all the shows in
the evening, but particularly Joseph’s, whose re-
putedly high standard of morality attracted the
service which is renowned both here and in
General Orders for taking so much care of it.
The piece will continue to run until this human
iceberg begins to thaw, when the police will have
to remove it.
** * *
Count Arnheim sings as of yore, whilst
Devilshoof burgles him of his only child, and the
weapons of an infuriated soldiery reveal the fact
that the trade in “ snide ” guns has created an old
nobility in other lands than England. The much-
barrel-organed “Bohemian Girl,” which fills up
at the same time the Opera House and the pockets
of Manager Solomon at a reduced tariff and a pas
seal thrown in, is a mere Hold-the-fort-for-
Martha’s-coming interlude. The arrival of that
bewildering domestic promises relief for Floren-
stein, the one member of a “gigantic cast,” who
wants it and a change of clothing to emphasise the
lapse of time between the disappearance of Arline,
the infant, and the production of Miss Lillian Tree
in a state of evening dress at both ends from a
semi-detached tent behind a tree in a spinifex desert.
The Gipsy Queen is less weighty, better dressed,
and gets along on more familiar terms with her
subjects than the only other foreign Queen who
reads The Bulletin just now. What happened
to the fair land of Poland falls to Henry Bracy’s
lot to disclose tunefully and with the air of de-
cayed melancholy befitting a nobleman on his
uppers, but it may be as well to state that neither
the graceful Tilly Lake nor the sparkling originali-
ties which exude from Devilshoof in the palace
were composed by Balfe.
# * *
Celebrities and specialities crowd the
people out of doors at the Academy to wander
about in a cold world until they can find standing
room in one of the other shows. Things are not
always what they seem, still less what they are
said to be, but in default of the loan of a boy-
fa. ed dog or a troupe of acrobatic blood-suckers,
every boy should be taught to apprehend the com-
mercial value of European celebrities. The next
generation may well hope to see the kings and
queens of the old world run through Australia
on a small screw and a gate-percentage added.
& * *
“Derrick’s great eccentric comedy of
‘ Confusion ’ ” reminds us that some time away
back in the 17th century an English hangman of
that name effected such valuable improvements in
the mechanism of the gallows, and other purchases
and hoists, that the ‘ ‘ derrick ” now in use was
called after him. A fact entirely unconnected
with Her Majesty’s Theatre, outside the seeming
probability that “ Confusion ” is a slab hoisted by
another Derrick out of the middle of a night-
mare produced by a too-prolonged honeymoon
in a dog-sausage factory. The sudden arrival
of an anonymous baby in the bower of a
two-months- married couple when the young
wife’s ambition is centred only on the posses-
sion of a pug-dog, begets a suspicion aggra-
vated by a note written to her husband in which
she informs him that “it has come at last,” and a
hope that he will love it for her sake ! This, of
course, refers only to the pug, which has been ob-
tained for her by a partially imbecile uncle, whose


The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilc-
ken’s Beaoonsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
Hor s ford's Acid Phosphate.
A TONIC AND FOOD
for the over-worked brain and muscles.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
one other object in life is to ensnare a flabby,
elderly female with a leak in her emotions at the
near prospect of a husband; the leak afore-
said being intensified by her suspicion—that
fie is the father of the mysterious baby,
which baby partially recovers from an at-
tack of small-pox in the cellaret of the
dining-room sideboard, is restored to con-
valescence in the hen-house, and is claimed
by the butler and his wife, after the whole neigh-
bourhood has been converted into a lunatic asylum
in the effort to discover who was the actual father
of which. Mortimer Mumpleford’s Henry Vee
assumption of authority, tempered with some of
Ned Drayton’s pathetic submission to the inevit-
able, help George Rignold to resent with much
dignity the too previous introduction of babies
and pups into his honeymoon and the sympathies
of every Christian audience will continue to be
with Mrs. M. —whom, by the way, Miss Kate
Bishop makes very attractive —till Julius Caesar
comes along as promised and breaks the strain.
There is much joy in “ Confusion” for people who
have never known the deadly struggle with super-
fluous infants addicted to smallpox or pug-dogs of
doubtful pedigree. Joe Tolano is a great feature
in the agony, but no mother would trust him to
kiss a baby that wasn’t built of rags.
* * *- *
The joys of the rink are undiminished by
operatic successes and exhibition monstrosities.
The oft-repeated circle, the fantastic caper and
the sudden collapse in the centre of the throng,
mark the skater’s progress from infancy to obese
age in plain or fancy dress through three genera-
tions. Some historian, yet unborn, will punctuate
the story of Australian progress with an account
of the rise and fall of the national winter pastime
of “ footling ” on skates.
“ The Grasshopper,” a piece of inanity
divided into three vulgar fractions, was revived at
Melbourne Princess’s last Saturday night. The
Grasshopper may be remembered as a diminutive
charmer of noble birth who was stolen from the
marble halls of her ancestors and apprenticed to a
circus, in which sphere of life her high-born houp
la ! attracts the unrequited love of Dismal Jimmy
and the Man with the Iron Jaw, not to mention
the sole lessee and manager of the circus—a baffled
suitor who would fain win her love in a raffle.
Before the numbers are drawn, however, the per-
secuted maiden flees to a little pub. in the High-
lands of Scotland, where she becomes enamoured
of something that looks like a heathen idol in
a kilt, and when the Dismal Jimmy crowd, hav-
ing folded their tent and slunk silently away
on her track, wish to restore the Grasshopper
to her sorrowing sawdust, the kilted monstrosity
purchases her freedom with £2Q. Just about this
time, too, a gibbering old idiot totters out of an
adjacent bar parlor, and says the Grasshopper is
somebody’s long-lost child, while a lot more non-
entities in kilts burst upon the festive scene and
dance. After this the entertainment loses its last
vestige of coherency, and the ennobled Grass-
hopper, the scarecrow of her choice, Dismal
Jimmy, a girl named Mabel, the Iron Jaw, several
members of the aristocracy, and the circus lessee,
fool around a villa on the banks of the Thames,
and fall into the water, and locate themselves in
the coal-hole. The perfidy of Mabel, who seems
to be generally hugging the wrong man, is respon-
sible for most of these calamities; but in the end
Mabel is wiped out, and the Lady Ernestine
Grasshopper takes the ridiculous object of her
affection to her gilded heart. Miss Jennie
Lee doesn’t lift along this farrago of helpless rot
as well as she did aforetime, owing to an increased
rotundity of outline. Her enforced gaiety, &c.,
sit heavy on the chest, too, at times, but she sings
a couple of antique comic songs with all the art of
long ago. Mr. J. P. Burnett’s capacity for horse-
play remains unimpaired, and his broad effects as
the clumsy absurdity in a kilt are a little broader
than they were before. Other members of the
company, however, fail to throw any new light
upon the prevailing stupidity of “ The Grass-
hopper,” and the beauty of its second scene will
hardly prevent this show from falling to pieces at
an early date.
* & * «-
On the same evening Mr. Dam pier’s parti-
cular version of “ East Lynne” filled the spacious
interior of the Alexandra with manifestations of
maudlin sorrow at popular prices. Further pro-
test against Lady Isabel is useless, inasmuch as
the wretched woman continues her snivelling
career just the same. She is invariably led astray
by a captain with large white teeth, and she con-
stantly returns in blue spectacles to put poultices
on her poor little Willie who dies of consump-
tion at a period of life when no children
do fall victims to that fell disease, ex-
cept in plays. Miss Lily Dampier is a few
centuries younger than most actresses who perpe-
trate this offence, but she gives a sufficiently
creditable performance considering, although her
mental anguish might be cut shorter. Miss Rita
Windale, in a becoming wig, is also a satisfactory
circumstance, and the tout ensemble is an improve-
ment upon certain other “ East Lynnes” seen in
Melbourne of late. Also, the scenery is satisfac-
tory, which reminds us that artist “ Alta ”—other-
wise Mr. Tischbauer—is taking a trip to the Paris
Exhibition in search of ideas, and the employes of
the theatre have presented him with a diamond
locket to ease the pain of parting.
-*- * *
The Silbon-Stirks have still got a muscular
grip on the situation at Melbourne Opera House,
but the “Bells of Haslemere” tinkle no more in
the Royal after Friday, when the virtuous, chuckle-
headed squire will develope into “The Silver
King,” a reformed inebriate Avho, for reasons
known only to himself, works out his atonement
in top-boots. The last days of the “Bells of
Haslemere” have been enfeebled by the sudden
disappearance of Mr. J. H. Clyndes, and conse-
quent substitution of an- actor at whose head a
solemn curse will be launched, if he doesn’t mend
his way. The withering nature of this curse,
which descends upon a culprit when least ex-
pected, is well known.
* #- *
The old familiar Waxworks has been con-
verted into a Palace of Amusement and collection
of Freaks of Nature. Men and maidens warble
songs of love six times a day, in that gruesome
Chamber where the other Horrors were wont to
shake their gory locks at a shuddering multitude.
A flea-exhibition occupies the former site of
Hanlan and Beach and a few intermittent feats of
Indian jugglery are but a poor recompense for the
loss of distinguished images too numerous to men-
tion. In several other respects the Palace of
Amusement is “pretty darned sad,’’three Beauti-
ful Queens, in charge of an Arab sheik (or a local
hawker) being puny little brown things of no in-
terest whatever. But on the platform once
sacred to Victoria Regina and family there are
two monkey-boys worth the charge for admission.
In the heads of these two boys, of similar shape
and size to well-grown cocoanuts, there is no room
for brain-pans, and in point of real intelligence
they evidently fall short of the little ourang-outang
that squats near them by day and sleeps with
them at night. They are not even so far advanced
in the customs of society as the animaj pure and
simple, for it was only last week that one of the
monkey-boys learned to use a handkerchief. He
has been blowing his nose ever since.
*- * * *
Remaining Melbourne shows are not re-
markable for anything in particular. Rickards’
prosperous season at St. George’s Hall is just
closing, and the Coghills return to their familiar
haunt on Saturday. A minstrel combination of
Frank Clark’s people with Hicks’ coloured pussons
has ousted an unappreciated diorama from the
Victoria, and the Cyclorama is booming same as
usual.
-;lc- * m *
We knew it ! An Australian in London
gloats over telling us how, being in the stalls of
the Haymarket Theatre, he saw Bishop Moor-
house and Mrs. Moorhouse there enjoying Beer-
bohm - Tree’s fine performance in the play of
“ Wealth.” How poor Moorhouse was bottled up
in Melbourne ! Canon Langley and all those put
the screw on him. He couldn’t kick up his heels
beyond playing cricket on the “ lawn ” at Bishops-
eourt with Mrs. Moorhouse. She is a capital
bowler. The Bishop could not even hit her for
one. The three Melbourne Bishops.— Perry,
Moorhouse, Goe —have all been married men with-
out family. Well, Moorhouse plucked up a morsel
of courage and got Creswick to give readings -at
Bishopseourt in presence of Dr. Cairns and Dean
Macartney. Creswick charged him £2O or so, but
gave the money to charity. Bishop Moorhouse
beforehand wrote him a note to bear in mind that
“ some of the strictest sects of our religion ” would
be present, wherefore he was to tone down any
full-flavoured humour of the Shakesperian type
that delighted tlie coarse-minded Queen Eliza-
PHOTO. BY HOLM, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MISS FLORA GRAUPNER.
beth. Then the Bishop tried to go and see Jennie
Lee’s “ Jo,” but the clergy raised such a frightful
howl! Now he’s free —and easy.
** # *
At the Adelaide Royal, “Sophia,” by
the Brongh-Boueicault company, has afforded
much comfort to the pious, with Emma Temple
in the name part, Cecil Ward as Tom Jones and
Lilian Seccombe gaining her first colonial experi-
ence as Molly Seagrim. “ Betsy ” follows
“ Sophia,” and"all Adelaide is expected to follow
“Betsy.” Hudson’s Variety Show is still at Gar-
ner’s, and Professor Jensen doing a slim business
in the Town Hall.
Yes, away in an uninviting shop at the top-end of
Bourke-street, Melbourne, the Marble Man lay
for a week while the dust of profound neglect
settled among his incrustation and gradually ac-
cumulated in the cracks and cavities of his de-
parted manhood. A sheet or two of note-paper,
bearing a legend in primitive pen printing,
were pasted on the window by way of announce-
ment that the fossil was on view at a florin a time,
but as the general appearance of the show con-
veyed an impression that it would be dear at two-
pence, the idle throng passed by and expectorated
in apathetic silence. A paltry three-line advt. in
the dailies, seen, perhaps, by one reader in every
500, also placed the fact before an ungrateful city.
At time of writing the proprietor of this inflated
fossil had determined to return to Sydney forth-
with. His inability to grasp the situation, and
his explanation that he wasn’t a showman (when
all the while he was a showman ignorant of the
business) were pathetic, and induce a belief that
the Marble Man must have known a lot more than
the gentleman who snatched him from his lonely
grave. As regards the genuineness, or otherwise,
of the spectacle, such people as dropped in by
accident seemed to think it was a doubtful ques-
tion, which made no difference.
** * *
Garner, of the triumvirate, is garnering
them up. There will be nothing left in Europe.
Here’s the bill for April Ist, 1890: —Theatre
Royal, Melbourne : Overwhelming success of Mr.
Henry Irving, Miss Ellen Terry, and the entire
Lyceum Company, scenery, and effects in “ Mac-
beth.” Princess Theatre, Melbourne; First ap-
pearance of the world-renowned Sara Bernhardt,
supported by M. Coquelin, in “La Tosca!
Theatre Royal, Sydney ; One-hundredth night
of the unrivalled comedian Mr. J. L. Toole, as
The Don ! Theatre Royal, Adelaide : Mr. Wilson
Barrett and Miss Bastlake in “ Ben My Chree. ”
IST B —Mr. and Mrs. Kendall, after their unprece-
dented Sydney and Melbourne seasons, open next
in Dunedin.
Not a “ puff ” was heard not a par. was seen
N o public excitedly hurried
To the shop where he lay in repose serene ;
That Man might as well have been buried
Again in the earth where he formerly lay,
And where, it is stated, they found him,
So from Melbourne they bore the old hero away,
With naught but his wood-case around him.
O ! a terrible frost was that thing so dead,
That fossil plebeian or well-born,
For no medical stories like wildfire spread,
No savants discussed him in Melbourne;
And his manager hadn’t the wit to guess _
Why few their two shillings had paid him,
Nor to see that the Marble Man’s Sydney success
Was because all the papers had made him.
At Poverty Point.
An Amurikan paper says that a Chicago notability who
attended the first performance of “Little Lord Fauntle-
roy,” in that city, “wept like a hired girl grating horse-
radish.”
Prima donna Albani is a Canadian and named herself
from Albany (Can.) the scene of her first success. On this
principle we may yet hear Madame de Wooloomoolooski
at Paris Grand Opera.
From “ Faust Up to Date,” now supported at the Globe
(London) by the legs of the Gaiety Burlesque Co.
Mephistopheles: “You’ll dine with me, de —ah boy
(laughter), at the club?” Faust; “Yes, de—ah boy.”
(Laughter). Mephistopheles; “We dine at seven, de —ah
boy (laughter), always dine at seven, de —ah boy (loud
laughter), whether we dine or not.” Margaret : “May I
come to dinner, too?” Mephistopheles; “ Ladies are not
admitted at the club. (Great laughter), But you may
sit on the steps and wait for us.” (Shrieks of laughter).
How beastly English !
The “actor” son of Sir Morell Mackenzie is described as
a perfect “stick,” who sends his audiences into convul-
sions of laughter when he talks sentiment to slow music.
Ellen Terry’s own son (by the late Mr. Godwin, architect
and aesthete) will play her stage offspring in the forth-
coming Lyceum production of “ The Dead Heart.” This
will be the young fellow’s debut in London.
Said Smith to his wife, on the way back from the “Jo-
Jo ” show : “lam firmly convinced that women have an
innate, natural, constitutional love of the horrible.”
“ Good thing for you,” she retorted, “ or you might have
been a bachelor to your dying day.”
De Reszke, the Romeo to Melba’s Juliet at Covent
Garden, is a Pole and came out first as a baritone. Critics
regard him as the finest pure chest tenor since Mario.
When had we last a pure chest tenor in Australia ?
Creswick’s widow has raffled, at the Savage Club,
London, her late husband’s artistic belongings, including
a fine claret-jug (Toole won it), presented to him by Aus-
ralian admirers.
Madame Melba’s debut, of which such staggering ac-
counts wove cabled over here, is disposed of by London
Figaro in one line“ Mrs. Melba-Armstrong was the
Giida.” This looks as though the Figaro man had been
trying to interview the Australian singer, and got snubbed
for his pains.
Tire Hawk says Madame Melba is an ideal Juliet; her
clear method of attack is a great relief from the nervous
•prime donne who never seem to hit a note fair till they
are half through an opera.
Jenny Watt-Tanner was to appear at the London Globe
on June 25th in a new' play by Mrs. Frances Hodgson
Burnett.
Amongst the Australians present at Madame Melba’s
deMd in Paris were Sir Graham and Lady Berry and Mr.
Hubert De Castella.
George Giddens, who visited Australia as leading young
man with Nell, “ the Californian Diamond,” has got a good
part in “ yEsop’s Fables,” a new farce by Hunt. Miss
Alma Stanley and Mr. Penley are also in “ the fat.”
Mrs. Langtry’s chef is suing her in New York for money
due as cook and caterer. She allowed him 15dols. a day
to buy all table supplies, and he complains that the
amount didn’t begin to pay for all the delicacies she con-
sidered necessary.
Harry Bennett, erstwhile prompter with W., G., and
M., is now managing the Gaiety Theatre bars in Brisbane.
He wants no more “ purfesh.”
Manager Allison contemplates another trip to the
States shortly
It seems that Bouoioault was married prior to his matri-
monial engagement with Agnes Robertson, but the first
wife died before he espoused the second. He was not so
free of the second when he wedded the third.
A certain theatrical manager is possessed of several
fine Yorkshire hams. Another manager, who thinks him-
self an epicure, coveted one and was promised it. Mean-
while, manager No. 1 goes and purchases an ordinary,
rusty, colonial ham and places it in the canvas covering of
the Yorkshire one. Manager No. 2 receives it in great
glee, and now goes about praising its flavour.
Geo. Darrell’s dramatic company disbanded last week,
but will be reorganised at no distant date.
Harry Leston, who has been resting at Lake Macquarie,
has his eye on a land-spec.
The colonial “ pro.” sees that he has to “ git up and
git,” as he is getting crowded out. Many actors only
regret that they are unfitted for any other employment
in life. I ~~ *
Fred. Hiscocks writes from Melbourne to say that it is
untrue, as reported, that he has been ill—he never was in
better health in his life. We congratulate Frederick. If
he is satisfied with his health nobody else has any right to
growl.
A well-known English comedian was present at a dinner-
party at which was also Willing, the bill-posting magnate.
Seated beside the comedian wasamuch-bediamonded lady.
Willing rudely made some remark about the lady's dis-
play, when to him the comedian : “Never mind, Willing,
she is not the only person dependent on paste for a
Bhow."
A know-it-all man, who writes theatrical reports
for a Sydney paper, lately characterised Geo. Leopold’s
Welsh accent as “ between that of Wales and Petticoat
Lane.” Now, the fact is that George is a master of the
Cymric tongue.
A terrible catastrophe occurred at Sydney Cri. the
other evening. An old gentleman scratched his head, and
off came his wig. The occurrence took place, as somehow
or other all such calamities do, just when the lights were
on and the audience had nothing to do.
They have a conscientious “dead-head” in America.
He sat unmoved through the first three acts of a first-
night performance, every act having been received wit h
increasing disfavour by the audience". At the end of the
third act, in reply to a neighbour, the dead-head, with
ferocious calm, said, “ The fact is I am here on a free pass,
and it would be indelicate in me to make any display of
natural feeling; but, unless the next act is better, 1 shall
go and buy a ticket, and come back and worry the piece
like blank blank!”
Hegarty, once of the old Queen’s Theatre, Sydney, is a
shrew d wag. Lately he was pestered by a commission-
agent, who wanted to sell him some silver shares. He
invited the man to his house, wined him up, and then
asked what was the price per share. “Twenty pounds,”
was the reply. “Well,” said Hegarty, “you’re a poor
man and my income is greater than yours. Buy them and
I’ll make ’em a present to you.” Exit.
Miss Merivale, the Triumvirate’s newly-appointed prima
donna, is the daughter of a well-known Dublin hotel-
keeper.
Harry Devere, w'ho seceded a short time back from the
Hugo Minstrels, was at latest dates playing in Auckland
in conjunction with Maggie Oak, Moore, Rsllinson (the
bicyclist), and several burnt-cork artists.
It, is an open secret that a marble woman was discovered
at Cow Flat (N.S.W.) about the time when the marble
man was resurrected. The lucky discoverers seem to have
bottomed on a graveyard. It is understood that the
marble maiden is reserved from sale at present, but will
be syndicated as soon as there is a bull-market for anti-
quities.
The Prince of Wales gave more than his mother for the
Johnstown sufferers. She sent her sympathy. He bought
tw o tickets to Buffalo Bill’s benefit performance.
Christie Murray, the lecturer, will be run by the only
M‘Mahon, and the combination augurs well for both. One
is said to be good and the other is.
They are going to steal Hyde Park,
Sydney, from the common people, and turn it into
a railway-station. Then suburban land will rise
in value, and the artisan who makes for a home
(owned by another man) will have to “pig it” in an
eighteen-foot frontage with a two-foot back-yard,
five miles from town. Arise, ye clerks who eat on
the park-forms every day the cold burnt-chop ye
have stolen from the hash-house breakfast-table
and wrapped up in an Evennoose to keep it clean.
Arise, ye men who earn six bob a day, and pay
fourteen shillings of it every Monday morning to
Millionaire Vulture under penalty of the bailiff.
Arise, ye wretches who, when work is slack,
“doss” under the trees, and get up at 4 a.m. to
await the posting of the advertisement pages
of the Herald. They are going to steal Hyde
Park from you all, and beautify it with a brick
railway-station. You will never know its value
until you lose it.
Professor Brown-Sequard, of Paris, has
discovered what he calls the Liquor of Immor-
tality ” —a preparation from the organs of young
animals, principally Brazilian guinea-pigs, the
injection under the skin whereof adds at least ten
years to life. We hope that ere this infusion gets
into general use, its application to pensioners and
persons of “royal” blood will be made penal.
All but the hypochondriacal valetudinarians of the
world will smile at Brown-Sequard. Guinea-pig
juice, versus the Fell Destroyer : verdict for
plaintiff with costs. However, Brown-Sequard
has hitherto not been a quack ; an contraire he is
undoubtedly one of the greatest physiologists of
the age, as any medical man will tell you. In
making known his alleged discovery the other
day he (we quote from the S.M. Herald corres-
pondence) stated ;
That from the very first of these injections he found him-
self a new man ; is regaining the power of standing, walk-
ing, working, thinking ; finds his appetite renewed, and
all his bodily and mental functions rapidly regaining their
state of 10 years ago. He considers himself booked for
another 10 years of life : after which he will be able to give
himself a new lease of 10 years, and so on, ad infinitum,
so far as he yet knows. The Academy, that began to
listen to the eminent chemist, physiologist, &c., with an
amused scepticism, became more and more interested as
he went on with his demonstrations, and when, on con-
cluding, he showed them how greatly he had regained
physical strength, voice, energy—after the state of weak-
ness, exhaustion, senility, in which his learned friends
had seen him sunk for several years past—they surrounded
him with their enthusiastic applause and felicitations.
Brown-Sequard is a Mauritian or Bourbon Creole
and has in him a very small spice of dark blood.
When the writer last saw him, about five years ago,
he was by no means debilitated-looking, but rather
appeared likely enough to become a centenarian.
A man of medium height (almost the double of
Mr. Torpy, M.P. for Orange, N.S.W.j with a
pinky complexion, snow-white hair and intensely
bright, black eyes, a clear voice, calm manner and
a cool, soft hand-such was the successor of the great
Claude Bernard at the French Academy of Medi-
cine. Brown-Sequard has been consulted by
many Australians—one of the first was Howard
Spensley, once Attorney-General of Victoria.
Now that he has the matter in his hands we hope
he will give liquor out of the wrong bottle to the
carrotty-bearded Reges Jumbuckorum who, while
spending hundreds of pounds in flowers for a
single London ball, make their station-managers
in Australia serve out flour to sundowners in
battered pannikins.


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
—A—
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
High Art Photography. —For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONT
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington li By Appointment.”
Sweet Boronia, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boron ia
Megistiguia ” Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. 6d:,
ss. and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine,
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 13S Bourke-st., East,
Melbourne.
The Pastor and the Master.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Preface.
It is useless, it is unsatisfactory, it is ex-
asperating, to try to teach the pronunciation of a
t rench vowel to a self-educated or half-educated
man. How they do bungle over “ nom-de-plume,”
and what agon}’ they inflict with “fleur-dt-lys ! ”
Now. the nearest approach to “eu” in French,
rendered into phonetic English is “o,” not the
“o” of pope, nor that of pop, but “in a middling
way.” You cannot spell the true ring. There-
-1 ore I choose for a title what may afterwards be
taken for a miserable pun.
JJulwcr Lytton wrote a novel of anticipation of
a future age ; a New Zealand Premier has followed
suit ; the Battle of Hoiking may occur, and so we
may have, not at a remote time but now, what I
am about to write.
I know plenty of men in Australia who would
lill the role of my pastor, and the publication of
my tale may deter some scoundrel from trying,
what he has already conceived, in a spirit of
vengeance, as a settlement of real or imaginary
grievances. The police, the buttered of local
I <apers, the toasted of rural society, are welcome
to my perspicuity ; they want it, poor images.
Alpha.
1888.—And that is not so long ago—a memor-
able year for Australia ; a leap-year, too, as Mr.
Noah Tucker discovered when he found himself in
the City of Rurngummia on the 29th of February.
1 lumgummia is a city because it possesses a bishop.
1 t’s a good thing to be a bishop, and when you
can’t become episcopal you may just as well be
a pastor or shepherd, and this is what Mr. No.
Tucker was in a big way, and so was, in a small
line, one of his dependents, old Jerry, who looked
afterthe rams. When the latter signed his name
to his yearly balance he wrote in a fair hand
Jeremiah Taylor. Sometimes he said he had
l>een a parson, at other times a schoolmaster, but
lie annoyed nobody, and he did his work well,
which was, perhaps, the reason that old Tucker
nagged at him and scrimped him in his rations.
He tried to cut his wages down, but Jerry said
he’d leave, and then he charged him £lO for an
>ld ram that had died of grass-seeds in the eye.
This was the last straw, the faithful camel's back
if servitude was broken, the agreement was at an
end, and the old ram-shepherd was again Mr.
Taylor, with a couple of hundred golden sovereigns
in a chamois-belt, anger in his heart, and murder
in his brain. He did not even look for a billet ;
Hia wants were few ; a book, a paper, a quart of
tea and a damper did for him.
This was his state of mind when he strolled down
the main avenue, Jubilee-street (late Bullock-
street), of Rurngummia, and there he met Mr.
Tucker. Noah was gaily dressed—a most unusual
thing. He was about to be married. Before tell-
ing you how this occurred, I must mention what
he said to Jeremiah Taylor, Esquire, of Nowhere.
“Well, Jerry; and how are you getting on?
Ain’t you sorry you left me? Forty pounds a
year is better than nothing, and though you may
have a pound or two now, you will find it is not so
easy to get a billet. Anyway, your life in a tent
on the river-bank is not so comfortable as in your
good hut at Baeltucker.”
The shepherd did not answer for a minute or so,
but at length said, with great determination: “My
life is a matter of no moment to you, and if my
death is not better than yours will be, there is no
truth in my namesake, the prophet. Just look up
his seventeenth chapter, the verse about the par-
tridge.”
Thus they parted. I shall tell you in my next
chapter how they met again.
Alphabet.
The chief hotel of Kumgummia is kept by a
lady, a widow. I defy you to find a fault in the
management. Its comforts and style are second
to none, but superior to nearly all the so-called
first-class hotels in Sydney and Melbourne.
Mr. Tucker, a cold, calculating man, had often
tried to induce Mrs. Bonspiel to marry him. Her
answer was always straightforward and as polite
as truth would permit. Often had she told him
that his style was not hers ; she liked comfort
and good living, hating waste but despising nig-
gardliness. In fact she hated Mr. N. Tucker.
Now at the Ilumgummia Royal there was a
rare housekeeper, a splendid manager. She had
been disgracefully sold up by a time-payment
money-lender in Adelaide and faute de mieux had
accepted a good salary’ as sub-matron and general
overseer, under Mrs. Bonspiel. She knew of old
Tucker’s frequent proposals to Mrs. 8., and quietly
waited until the morning chance that comes but
once in four years. The first words addressed to
Noah on that day were “ Mr. Tucker, in my
country the women ask the men during leap year,
and I also tell you that if you cannot get the mis-
tress you might do worse than take the maid.”
So Mr. Noah Tucker, of Baeltucker, on the Dar-
lach, bought a new suit of clothes. Mrs. Moseley
(that was her name) pressed out the storiness, cut
liim a geranium, and next day departed for Bael-
tucker, where she now reigns supreme and alone.
The parson at Rurngummia is very sudden and
none the less sure. His motto is, “ Catch the
fleeting one, two, three, or five guineas,” for do
not christenings follow, not to mention stray
quarters of mutton and yearly subscriptions,
which bachelors forget to give ?
What a grand woman Mrs. Tucker, nee Moseley,
is ! I know two really good business ladies. I
have introduced you to one. The other is Mrs.
Wettin, of England, whose hand I have kissed.
Somehow or another she always calls herself by
fancy names. Last time I saw her she was a
Lancaster; the time before she only signed “ Vic-
toria,” and did not seem to think that, although
she certainly had been as good as a crown to her
late husband, it was worth while to take his name.
But “ revenons d nos rnoutons. ” Mrs. Tucker
knows a good servant, and knew of two or three in
Rurngummia. She engaged them, including a
bright, clean nursemaid. Noah thought it was
rather early, but said nothing. She also left a
commission with Mrs. Bonspiel to engage a steady,
elderly tutor, at forty or fifty pounds a year, his
first duty being to accompany his pupils and nurse
to Baeltucker. There were three boys and three
baby girls.
I cannot say that Mr. Tucker was pleased when
he heard that the family might soon be expected
by the coach He had not yet heard of the family;
he did not know the number, but he dared not
complain. He had already learned the ABC of
marriage, and could, with truth, quote from
“ Home ”:
“ Here woman reigns.”
But I confess that he swore when he saw the new
tutor, who wore a black coat, a white tie, and a
strangely-familiar face. His name was Jeremiah
Taylor, M.A., Dub.
Schooldays.
Jeremiah Taylor had a written agreement from
All’s. Bonspiel. There was nothing against his
character ; he was perfectly competent for his
duties, and he had the means of sueing Air.
Tin ker for a year’s wages, and that gentleman
began now to know the character of his tutor.
The inevitable was accepted, and for months Airs.
Tucker was not even aware that the school-master
had, only the year before, shepherded the. rams on
the Darlach frontage. When she did find out she
was rather glad, for by this time she was barely
civil to her lord over whom she lorded, unless the
verb ladied be correct. Being a professing Chris-
tian -he had also some hazy ideas about helping
the lowly. At any rate, she made old Taylor com-
fortable and old Tucker the reverse. 4he latter
drank a good deal more whisky than formerly, and
was always out on the run—in fact, he took every
opjort unity of absenting himself from home.
During all this time the tutor faithfully performed
his duties. The children actually liked him and
sought his society. They improved in manners
and were gay without being cheeky, The only
uncomfortable personage in Government House
was the master; though, perhaps, the pastor in
his heart was not happy. He never addressed his
male employer, he was civil and distant, and Noah
Tucker, shaky from Glenlivet, began to fear the
dominie.
In 1888, as I said before, there were rare goings
cm in Australia. There was a Jubilee, whatever
that may be; there was an Exhibition or two, I
forget the number ; there was a Rabbit Commis-
sion of highly-paid officials, who tried experiments
HOT OR COLD?
DOCTOR: “WHEN YOU GET HOAIE GIVE THE CHILD A TEPID BATH.”
COCKIESS: “YIS, TO BE SHURE, DOCTHOR, AND WILL OI GIVE IT HOT
OR COLD?”
on moribund bunnies and wrote rot, that Ralph
the Rabbiter and Scotty the Wrinkler (your hum-
ble servant) had already published. Here I must
testify to the honesty of Dr. Katz. In his report,
he acknowledges that the rabbits he received were
poor, starved, mangy rubbish. I may also ask
why, m thunder, he did not feed them up to a
natural fatness and health before he started on
them ? At any rate, 1888 was a great year.
Our connection with its greatness took place at a
town where two Frenchmen were demonstrating
the prevention of anthrax by inoculation. Air.
Noah Tucker had undertaken a very long and
fatiguing journey in order to be there. He did
not say much, but he thought a lot, and learned
the “virus trick,” as he called it. He was not
dead sure of his pronunciation of AI. Pasteur’s
name, and M.M. Germont and Loir were far be-
yond him. So he called it the “Cumberland virus
trick. ” Sometimes, indeed, he said he had learned
the “ ’noculatin’ dodge.”
And while the rich man was meditating on the
importance of the discovery his poor dependent
was reading the papers and noting their contents.
College.
Air. Tucker returned to his run. He did not
even nod to the tutor. He hardly spoke to his
wife ; he made a kick at one of his stepsons, and
then drank some whisky. When he had filled his
pipe, he sent for the overseer to ask the news.
There was nothing to report, travellin’ sheep
would be at the horse-paddock gate to-morrow;
that pleuro mob, or black-leg, or Cumberland ;
the mob that was reported at Rumgummia : the
’Spector passed them clean; only a stray one or
two dying now, generally left on the night camp;
that was all.
Next morning but one Mr. Tucker took it into
his head to get up at half-past 4 and see the
drovers off the camp. One sheep remained behind
the rest and could not be After breakfast
the sheep* was dying, with a pink, frothy sub-
stance about his nose and mouth. Mr. Tucker
made an autopsy and preserved a small phial of
blood, which he reserved for private experiments,
a la Pasteur. Here ended all his studies. He
never had a chance of prosecuting them.
* # *
The medicine-chest at. Baeltucker was kept
in the schoolroom. Air. Taylor kept the key. In
order to lock up this death-dealing and, at the
same time, death-preventing phial, Noah Tucker
had to give it to the schoolmaster and tell him
what it was. It was safely laid away for one day.
On the day after the travelling sheep moved on
a burly Yorkshireman and his rather dudish son
drove up to Baeltucker in order, by appointment,
to class the rams. The other sheep had been dealt
with and the matter only lasted an hour or so,
even with the limited number of men employed on
the station. Alost men get knocked about at
sheep-classing and the knuckles and fingers often
get abraded —the ordinary bushman calls it
“barked.”
Old Tucker was an exception. He liked the
work of hauling and mauling the sheep. His
hands were often a mass of sores and even burns,
for at firebranding a man has a chance of paying
out a stingy or churlish boss. You have_ only to
make a mistake or slip and the copper or iron bolt
“ snizzles ” (American word) on human skin in-
stead of wool.
This time, however, the old gentleman was not
badly marked, just one little scratch on the back
of his hand, not even enough for the customary
Farmer’s Friend, Friar’s Balsam or Australian
Ointment. So he quietly slept for an hour in a
big arm-chair in the verandah just in front of the
schoolroom-door.
At tea-time his hand itched a little ; next morn-
ing it was swollen and painful, at night he was a
raving maniac, and at dawn Airs. Noah Tucker
was an eligible widow. I said before that she was
a business woman. A will had been drawn out
and signed by Noah before the children had been
mentioned. He had never added a codicil. In
fact, he never thought of it.
Alors Janua Vital,
An old heading. It has been used by scores of
novelists, parsons, and metaphysicians, but it is
still a good one. I do not, however, refer to the
spiritual life, the being born again of Noah
Tucker. On the contrary, lam about to allude
to the lives of AVidow Tucker, the young Moseleys,
and Jeremiah Taylor.
Airs. Tucker is an exemplary widow. At the
inquest on her husband she stated that, as soon as
dangerous symptoms set in, she sent for the doctor,
but that death had relieved the medical man of
possible homicide. These were not the words she
used ; she said that his services were not required,
but that she obtained him, as she knew there must
be an inquest.
The doctor sent a mounted man with notice to
the coroner, who came out post-haste, for he knew
and respected Airs. Tucker.
Air. Taylor, tutor to the deceased, stated that
Air. Tucker had, the day before the ram-classing,
given him a bottle to put away, containing, as he
said, the “virus of a Cumberland sheep.” He
produced the bottle, which the coroner ordered to
be destroyed.
The head boundary-rider, who acted as overseer,
gave evidence that “ the cove was messing about a
poisoned sheep three days before his death. It had
been left to die by some drovers.”
It was a clear case of accidental poisoning. The
doctor called it pyaemia, but to this day (and now
I begin to write of a day that has not yet come)
the whalers tell you that “Old Tucker died of
Cumberland, and d— — d little loss, too. ”
Now we pass on to the year 1900. By the time
that you have inwardly digested my little tale
your mental gastric process will be strong enough
to assimilate the novel written by the New Zealand
politician. He tries your credulity at 2000, but 1
only crave a small amount of faith : eleven years’
tick.
Well, let us see how our friends are getting on
.12 years after the Jubilee.
The boys are well and strong. They have done
justice to their teacher, and, i’ faith, lie has done
his duty by them. They respect and love him,
although he is slightly distant. Mrs. Tucker
wears her widow’s weeds well. She does not pre-
tend to regret much the timely departure of her
late lamented. But she shows no flippancy or
disrespect towards his memory. She manages
Baeltucker without a super. There are now no
mistakes in the accounts. The rations are liberal,
travellers may camp a day, so as to “rinse out a
flannen’,” and Mr. Taylor is storekeeper. Tom
Moseley, the handsome lad of 17 or 18, is overseer.
The eldest son is at Melbourne University.
This is a picture of their life until the 28th day
of February, 1900.
Mr. Taylor has not been very well lately and
has been explaining to the younger children how
that there is no 29th of this month in the century
years, although you can divide by four. He also
states that he’ll never see another leap-year. After
dinner he strolls down to the Cemetery Sandh 11
in his old ram-paddock. Sitting on the rail of old
Tucker’s grave he falls into a reverie, which is in-
terrupted by Samuel, the youngest son. On the
gravestone there are only three lines :
NOAH TUCKER,
Obiit, 12th October, 1888, set. 69.
Jeremiah xvii. ii.
Young Samuel asks Mr. Taylor what was the
context of the verse quoted, but Mr. Taylor only
wondered he had never looked it up. Samuel says
he’ll do so, and promises to have a certain verse
cut on Jerry’s tombstone when he croaks ; such
was his irreverent expression. But he hoped he’d
live to a hundred ; more if it would do him any
good, and he rides away. Mr. Taylor never came
home to tea.
Omega.
Dead, beside his master’s grave. The local
papers whined and snivelled about a faithful ser-
vant. What did the papers know about his heart
What do you know ? What do I know ? Mine is
the privilege of inventing what I know.
You wanted me to write a thrilling scene in the
verandah, occurring on the 10th of October, 1888,
something like this ;—The tutor makes sure that
his master is asleep, unlocks the medicine-chest,
dips a feather into a certain phial and paints the
scar on old Tucker’s hand with a drop or two. I
do nothing of the sort. Work up your own
tragedy. Imagine an interview on the death-bed,
with blasphemous recriminations; imagine what
you please. Now, you say this is a tale without a
plot, incident, or moral. Make the plot, my dears,
and, as regards a moral, turn up two verses of the
Bible. I have mentioned one of them twice. The
other is cut on the gravestone next to Noah
Tucker’s.
JEREMIAH TAYLOR,
Obiit, 28th Feb., 1900, aet. 79.
Jeremiah xvii., 10.
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
The publicans near a certain N.S.W.
railway cutting, ask whether you want fighting,
talking, or working, beer.
The municipality of Cootamundra has a
large overdraft on which it pays 7 per cent; and
a larger fixed deposit on which it receives 4 per
cent.
“The truth is mighty and will prevail.”
“ This,” says a French journalist, “is an English
platitude, but it’s very true. Whatever prevails
in England is called the Truth ! ”
The marriage of Mary Elizabeth Ann
Lightbody Barton Grieves is advertised in a
Melbourne daily. That would be name enough
for a reasonable woman, but some people are
never satisfied.
William Irving Winter, M.L. C., of
Noorilim, in the colony of Victoria, Esquire, has
duly obtained from His Sovereign Lady permis-
sion to use the surname of Irving in addition to
and after that of Winter ; also to bear the arms of
Irving of Bonshaw quartering with the arms of
Winter, so now he sits under his family tree with
two lots of arms, and there is joy in the halls of
Noorilim. The departed spirit of old Jock
Winter is doubtless jubilating over “the boy’s”
new quarterings, although Jock, in his day,
thought more about the pedigree of sheep than
about the long descent of himself and the “old
woman.” Jock started life as a shepherd—upon
the Grampian Hills he fed someone else’s flocks—
and some 70 years ago he took the first steps to
fortune by trudging into Edinburgh. In that
classic city he chopped up joints for a butcher, and
greased his locks with suet to such an extent that
he ran away with the heart and hand of a maiden
in whose veins ran all the Bonshaw blood
of the Irvings. Coming out to Australia with his
ancestral bride Jock had the luck to take up land
in the Ballarat district, and when gold was dis-
covered Jock sold two chunks of his sheep-run for
£20,000 each. His old knowledge of stock stood
him in good stead and the whilom shepherd-boy
turned his money over and over again. Jock
never troubled much about his coat of arms, how
ever, nor was he wont to worry about the fact that
the girl he ran away with was a lineal des
Cendant of the Irvings of Bonshaw. They
seem to have been a pretty wooden-headed
crowd, anyway, and their greatest family achieve
ment consisted in swearing away the life of
a drummer-boy two centuries ago. The afore-
said drummer didn’t believe in Papists, and the
Irvings of Bonshaw doted on ’em, so they con-
spired against that unfortunate musician, and he
was shot before breakfast. Then they quarrelled
over their proud family porridge, and each Irving
of Bonshaw said the other one was a liar, and the
ghost of the defunct boy used to haunt them some-
thing awful. But as W. I. Winter-Irving, M. L. C.,
has stumped up for the privilege of quartering—
/ore-quartering, we presume—the arms of these
people along with the arms he inherited from old
Jock - peace to his soul ! —we suppose it is all
right, and think it was exceedingly kind of the
Queen to let him do it.


Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
X. IST 33 -A. G-3E3 3XT T S,
Business Brokers A Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &c.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &e.
Printed list Businesses for Sale Issued Bally
All Lists posted Free on application.
Personal Items.
G. H. Reid doesn’t favour the single-tax.
He is single himself.
It is again alleged that Lord Carington is
getting ready to go home.
Gladstone has declined an American offer
of £5OOO for 25 articles on current interest to be
selected by himself.
At Biarritz Queen Victoria has given an
order to an American painter named Bnnce. The
name probably attracted her.
James Anthony Froude is of opinion that
Australian natives speak very pure English. Many
of them speak still purer bullock-driverese.
Lord Ilopetoun, the new Governor of
Victoria, and aged 20, has just—happy augury 1 —
sold by auction the splendid library gathered by
his grandfather.
Louis Brennan, the young Victorian, of
torpedo celebrity, is engaged in perfecting a new
type-writer which he expects to supersede all
existing machines.
David Goodman Croly, a man who did
much to spread Positivism in the States, left
the following epitaph behind him : —“I meant
well, tried a little, failed much. ”
“ Max O’Rell” considers that horse-racing,
which was instituted “ for the improvement of the
equine race,” lias certainly not conduced to the
improvement of the human race.
“Robbery under Arms” “by Rolf Bnldre-
wood” (Mr. 'l'. A. Browne, police magi trate at
Albury, N.S.W.), has been added by Macmillan
and Co, to their Colonial Library.
Our old fellow-colonist and pensioner,
Jlobert Lowe (now Lord Sherbrooke) is said to
have almost entirely lost the use of his pink eyes.
He is l id around by two attendants.
There is at least one artist in Sydney who
does not complain of the lack of encouragement
extended to him by the public. He paints birds
and makes out of it a modest £2#oo a year.
Lord Dunlo, of Belle-Bilton-and-cab-fare
celebrity, now on his way to Australia, has just
attained his majority, and is the heir of Lord
Olancarty, the owner of 24,000 Galway acres.
Mrs. Dickenson, the lady who shot at and
hit a burglar the other night in Sydney, is a direct
descendant of old Captain Johnston, of Governor
Bligh celebrity. The Johnstons never fire with-
out hitting somebody.
The Duchess of Montrose gave evidence
in the Chetwynd-Durham turf-swindle case not at
all to the credit of Sherrard, the trainer, who was
rude enough to interject twice, “ What a lie!”
while “ Mr. Manton ” was giving evidence.
Gladstone speaking at Plymouth, attributed
the coining of the phrase “ Mr. Mother Country ”
as a nickname for the head of the Colonial Office,
to the late Chas. Butler, M.P., when as a matter of
fact it originated with the late Dr. John Dunmore
Lang.
A well-known N.S.W, Civil servant who,
a year ago, obtained twelve months’ leave of
absence, and went away with snow-white hair,
has returned with a coal-black head-thatch. The
climate of Yurrup has a wonderful effect on some
people.
'I he British Bull has had another vein
opened. The Duke of Connaught, who is a Field-
Marshal and a colonel in two regiments, has
received an appointment as Lieutenant-General,
which sinecure will add £912 10s. a year to his
already enormous screw.
Judging from the tone of Swinburne’s
latest verses, he covets the mantle of Laureate
Tennyson on his demise. He need not bother ;
he can’t grovel worth a cent alongside of
Lewis Morris, Esq., whom we are prepared to back
for the dollars and the butt of wine.
It has been definitely fixed that when the
Prince of Wales’ eldest son ascends the British
throne—if he ever does get there—he is to be known
as Edward. Quite right. Every donkey is named
Neddy. P.S.- —This joke is strictly original, and
was flippantly reeled off by The Bulletin’s type-
writer.
For once the great Pears has been beaten
in the advertising line. Everyone knows the
famous advertisement, “ Good morning ; have you
used Pears’ soap?” The other day one of the big
dailies had the following immediately opposite the
Pears’ advertisement, “Yes, but Cleaver’s is
better. Good evening.”
Mr. Dan. Cooper, of Sydney, appears to
have thoroughly married himself into London
society. Gold makes good social solder, anyhow,
but if Daniel hadn’t a shilling he would be
tolerably popular anywhere. His movements are
now chronicled with those of the Sassoons, Borth-
wicks, and such magnates.
Says ex-clergyman Cullen, M.P. : “ There
is a wonderful power in the word ‘ Bank ’ written
on a brass-plate.” Quite true. There is also a
wonderful power in a black belltopper and a long-
tailed black coat, and that’s why you never see a
parson in white duck trousers after he has vacated
the pulpit to join the capitalistic press.
Writes “Jack” Want, Q.C., in a Sydney
paper, in a letter headed “ To Japan and Back ” ;
“Two ladies represented the softer sex ; ©ne was a
nun, the other a burlesque actress. By the strange
irony of fate, they had to occupy the same cabin,
and it became a matter of speculation amongst us
as to which would convert the other.”
Lord Dudley is the possessor of consider-
able church patronage, thirteen livings, and the
very day his name appeared in the columns of the
papers as figuring at Marlborough-street Police-
court as a captive gambler, in another it was an-
nounced that he had appointed the Rev. Mr.
Carnegie to the clerical living, or “ cure of souls,”
at Witley.
Dan O’Connor is going to Hay. He’ll
meet there a kindred soul in Trevena, a Cornish
waggon-maker, who, when he stood for aider-
man, talked as did Dan of “ seven-sixths,” “ five-
fourths,” &c. In spite of this, Trevena, like Dan,
got into power, but a little love-affair detaining
him in Melbourne, the Mayor basely declared his
seat vacant.
John Ewen Davidson, of Mackay, has in-
tensified his personal glory by the discovery of a
new comet. John Ewen had previously discovered
almost everything else worth knowing to the
northward of the tropic of Capricorn, and has
now no hope in the future beyond a solution of
the difficulty of how to make sugar pay without
black labour.
Of the great fortune left by the Duchess of
Cambridge—the accumulations of money from the
English Treasury— not a penny has been devoted
to any public, or, indeed, to any English purpose.
It is all distributed among her Germanic relatives
—princes and princelets who, having no honour in
their country, make England the goose which lays
them golden eggs.
“Demos” Palmer wrote a squib in his
Imperial Review for March, inventing one Mr.
Garraway, an Australian author of an original
play called “ The Girl Queen ” (dealing with Queen
Victoria) and giving copious quotations. The
Daily News, London, reproduces them in a
column article, congratulating Australia on a new
dramatist. The Bulletin was “ had ” among the
rest.
“The Hon. Henry Stormont Finch-
Hatton now manages the charitable London
‘ Thimble League ’ which finds employment for
deserving women through the winter.” Thus
does the Hawk give away the best shot in North
Queensland, and a man, who, in the bush uniform
of Scotch twill and moleskin, with a battered felt
and blucher-boots, could never have become an
object of suspicion in the vicinity of Mount
Spencer.
The Marquis of Ailesbury, who had
abandoned the divorce-suit instituted against his
wife, met her on the Portsmouth racecourse in
company with one of the co-respondents, named
Riley. He went for Riley, but had all he could do to
take care of himself until the police interfered and
bundled him off in a cab. Thus is the rising
democracy inspired with a feeling of veneration
for that ancient and evil-smelling institution the
old nobility.
An Irish member of the Cape Legislature
addressed the House on the Frontier Question as
follows - “Such, Mr. Speaker, is the state of in-
security in which we live on the eastern frontier,
VERY LIKELY.
INDIGNANT CITIZEN: “ I SAY, OFFICER, THERE’S A MAN BEING HUSTLED
AND SHAMEFULLY TREATED BY A CROWD OF LARRIKINS JUST
ROUND THE CORNER!”
POLICEMAN (slowly walking in the opposite direction): “AYE! THAT’LL BE THE
PRAICHER!”
that I and other settlers have often left home to
attend to our daily avocations, leaving our peace-
ful homesteads, our happy wives, and our smiling
children all well, and have returned in the, evening
to find our houses burnt over our heads, our wives
widows, and our children fatherless.”
On Saturday morning last it was announced
in the press cables that Gladstone had celebrated
his golden wedding. On the same morning it was
announced that Parkes was celebrating his jubilee
as a colonist —he having landed on these shores
July 27, 1832. Gladstone undoes the two top
buttons of his waistcoat —so does Parkes. Glad-
stone has a jubilee—so has Sydney’s G.O.M. Me
and Mister Gladstone —always. Why doesn’t he
shave and adopt Mister Gladstone’s collar?
Dr. Samuel Clarke, the great commenta-
tor, always maintained that Judas was saved.
Nero, Lucrezia Borgia, Robespierre, and all the
wicked have their whitewashes. A correspondent
of the Newcastle Chronicle (Eng.) points out
that Dickens’ Wackford Squeers, in “ Nicholas
Nickleby,” was a villainous libel on a most excel-
lent, well-known Yorkshire schoolmaster, who
died of a broken heart in consequence. Miss
Squeers, who called Nicholas Mr. “ Knuckleboy,”
was in reality one of the most amiable young ladies
that ever lived.
A colossal bronze statue of Victoria Re-
gina’s tame Scotchman, John Brown, by Sir
Edward Boehm, has been erected in Balmoral
Castle grounds near the garden cottage, while
only a polished granite seat has been placed,
“near the dairy,” in memory of the Duke of
Albany—who hated Brown like poison. Poetical
justice now combines with eternal fitness to sit
upon the memory of the epileptic duke and gaze
across the way with rapturous regret upon the
brawny image of the overbearing gillie.
An American writer remarks, apropos o
Mrs. Annie Besant’s popularity and influence
with the London democracy, that there is a won-
derful magnetic attraction about her. “Her face,
in repose, can hardly be called handsome, but,
when animated, her dark Irish eyes flash fire, and
she has one of the sweetest smiles I have ever
seen. I have heard her speak time after time, and
always with a renewed sense of her graphic power
and deep earnestness. As regards energy and
downright hard work, very few women can ap-
proach Annie Besant.”
Lewis Lewis, of Sandhurst, has died at
106 years old. His life ran strangely parallel to
that of another esteemed Hebrew, Sir Moses
Montefiore. The Psalmist’s old saying about <0
as the limit, only applied to a barbarous age, when
naught was of value but physique, brute bone and
sinew. Civilisation br'ngs the world more and
more under the government of the aged. \Ve
cannot get away from these old men of the sea,
be they named Gladstone, Emperor William,
Moltke (by far the most wonderful example),
Bismarck, Thiers, Grevy, Parkes or E. J. Jl.
Knapp.
The citizens—that is to say, a few dozen—
of Melbourne propose to have a portrait of 1 it z-
gibbon, the overwhelming Town Clerk, painted
and hung up in the Town Hall. Divested of his
pompousness and reverence for officialdom, I itz.
is a worthy old fizgig enough, and he has the
reputation of being honest as town clerks go.
And as the painting of his picture will be a job
for one of those poor devils of artist fellers, yersee,
why The Bulletin has nothing to say against the
proposed work of art, and they can hang it up
over the new Cathedral altar if they like. A
Saint Fitzgibbon would fill a long-felt want.
Old Doctor Wills, the father of R. O’H.
Burke’s surveyor and comrade in that wild and
costly rush across Australia in ’6l, is still alive,
and is again asking the Victorian Government for
assistance. William John Wills was real grit,
and might have been an explorer under more
favourable conditions. His family are already
under heavy obligations tohirn. Hismother enjoyed
a life-pension of £l2O per annum for 3.8 years, to
the time of her death ; his sisters had a lump sum
of £5OO each ; his brother got a Government billet,
and the old gentleman, who played a lone-hand in
domestic matters and got his whack separately, is,
sadly enough, reduced to emulating Oliver Twist
at twenty years over and above the allotted span
of human misery, and asking for “more.”
John Haynes tells a good yarn of the days
when he and Henniker Heaton, now also an M.T.,
drummed the back-blocks on behalf of the Down
and Gumteeb J ernil. In the back street of a
northern town was a butcher, who gave a twelve-
months’ subscription. In the main thoroughfare
was another man of the same calling, who would
not have the “rag ”on any account. The Jeenil
had arranged to come out with views of the main
street, and the present “member for Australia”
was unable to understand why the stupid photo-
grapher could not bring the shop and sign of
obliging butcher No. 1 from the back slum and
place his name and sign in the more prominent
locality occupied by butcher No. 2.
Apropos of the young Duke of Portland’s
wedding, the English papers are full of Welbeck
Abbey, his dwelling. The late Duke was posi-
tively the most wonderful man in the world. He
had a hatred of the human species somewhat
akin to that of Gulliver’s Houyhynhyms for the
Yahoos. The Duke lived mostly underground, in
magnificent palatial rooms dug out. They were
brilliant as Aladdin’s Cave, or Monte Christo’s.
A suite of six gorgeous underground halls included
the ball-room, library, and the grandest picture-
gallery in England, the walls crowded with ex-
pensive paintings. He also had an underground
carriage-drive, a mile-and-a-half long! Subter-
ranean passages led to every part of his beautiful
estate.
POLITICAL POINTS
Knutsford says the colonies want “ no-
bility,” not “ ability,” for their Governors.
“God Save the Queen !” They howl it
everywhere. They sing it when members of the
Wettin family enter Sheol.
Governor Norman, it is said, threatens to
resign unless Queensland gives him as geod a
salary as he got at Jamaica.
Henry George was billed to debate on
Single-tax v. Social Democracy with H. M. Hynd-
man in London on July 2nd.
The Australian Native Association boom
is showing signs of slow decay. It has burst its
bellows with too much National Anthem.
At a Foreign-trade meeting, last week, one
of theN.S.W. Ministers said that the Freetrado
party “would tight their battle under the motto
of ‘No Surrender.’” Very likely, indeed. That
happens to be the Orange Lodge motto.
The Imperial Parkin has lectured in Mel-
bourne on the “Commercial and Financial Aspects
of National Federation.” It is only from the
money-lender’s point of view that the Federation
he recommends can be deemed advisable.
It is cabled that Gladstone, in answer to
Labouohere, has condemned “shabby attacks” on
Queen Yktoria’s civil list, A splendid court, he
says, is a necessity in a society like that of Fmg-
land. What a splendid lot are the Guelphs !
Parkin is a highly enthusiastic frost in
Melbourne. The Imperial set don’t talk much
about him, and the local Rads, are leaving him
severely alone. It says little for the circulation of
Parkin’s organ, the Argus, that not one Mel-
bourne man in ten knows that the Canadian
nuisance is alive.
Alluding to the N.S.W. Centennial
postage-stamps, the P.M. Gazette says :
Nobody has taken such an ultra-serious view of the
situation as a certain Sydney gentleman, who, as a pro-
test against what he conceives to be the disloyalty of (lie
Government under which he lives, has impressed the
Queen’s head, double-stamp size, on all his envelopes. If
the zealous Royalist perseveres he will be a baronet some
d y
■‘ A survivor of the Six Hundred” com-
plains bitterly of the neglect of the survivors by
the British Government, and, nevertheless, con-
cludes a prolonged snuffle with a grovelling “ God
Save the Queen ! ” Some folks are born slaves,
and would not feel at home unless a monarch and
an aristocracy of idleness were walking over their
prostrate bodies.
That Select Committee appointed to en-
quire into the iniquity of grants to the Royal
Family seems to have been a little conspiracy to
add £30,000 a-year to Tummy’s allowance. They
might as well have made Her Gracious Majesty
chairwoman of the concern, and then she might
have made another royal grant to herself and
voted a million sterling to the ghost of Albert the
Good.
In view of our approaching independence
it is time the Trades and Labour Societies through-
out Australia were united or federated and a com-
mon political platform adopted. That done, they
could organise from amongst themselves an Aus -
tralian Guard solely for the defence of our country,
a sort of Landwehr, who could elect their own
officers, manage their own affairs, and, if need be,
provide their own arms. The Imperial element is
getting too strong in officers.
If Servia goes to war with Bulgaria, as
seems likely, it will revive Bulgarian sympathy
with Prince Battenberg, their former ruler, who
led them to victory against the Servians. He’ll
come back, ballet-dancer and all. If he had mar-
ried the German Princess they never would have
had him. How is it she turns up her nose at
Cousin Victor ?
Alas! young women never like the young man that is
“good,”
They think him too muffinish and erumpetish for poor
human nature’s daily food.
A visitor to Brisbane, speaking of the
Queensland Legislative Assembly, says ; “ I have
never seen such a happy family ; the Government
introduces proposals, the Opposition, almost to a
man, approve of them, occasionally suggesting a
few unimportant amendments, by way of letting
people know that the semblance of an Opposition
really exists. Now and then an orator who is
rambling on all points except the one at issue will
be called to * Orderbut he merely retorts ‘ Order
be d d!’ and again urges on his wild career,”
“Her husband, after being
out of work for m any
months, disappeared. She
had, since then, managed to
exist by finishing trousers.
She had to put on nine but-
tons, make nine button-
holes, and line each pair of
trousers for 3d. On an
average she earned 3s. Cd. a-
week, and to get that sum
she had to sit up the half of
each night. From that sum
she had to pay 2s. rent,
leaving Is. 6d. to heep her-
self and three children—one
of whom was the subject
of the inquest.”— London
Papke.
“ This mania for artificial
flowers is an extension of
the growing taste for floral
decoration. Flowers are
seen everywhere this year
in the most extraordinary
profusion. At the last
Drawing-room the bouquets
of the coachmen and foot-
men were wonderful to be-
hold. In some cases even
the horses were bebou-
queted.”—London Paper.


sf
sdf
The Political Squid.
"The creature throws out its ink to cover its retreat when closely pursued, and generally on the least alarm. "—Natural Historg.


The statement made by Professor Brown*
Sequard, at the last sitting of the French
Academy of Medicine, has created an im-
mense excitement throughout the medical
world. He declared he had discovered the
means of enabling man to prolong life
indefinitely. The Professor says that, dis-
satisfied with the results of the transfusion
of blood, he has been experimenting with
the introduction into the circulation of old
animals of a liquid prepared from portions
of the organs of very young animals,
principally guinea pigs of India and Brazil,
which he takes from them while alive,
mashing them to a pulp in water, which
he strains and prepares after expe-imenting
with wonderful success on old animals, by
injections under the skin. He has now been
experimenting on himself with equal
success. The old savant, who is a giod
-way above 70, states that from the very
first of these iniections of what he called
“The Liquor of Immortality,’’ he found
himself “a new man;’ is regaining the
power of standing, walking, working,
thinking, ; finds his appetite renewed, and
all his bodily and mental functions rapidly
regai ing their state of 10 years ag >. He
considers himself booked for another 10
years of life ; after which he will be able
to give himself a new lease of 10 years, and
so on, ad infinitum, so far as he yet knows.
When, on concluding, he showed the
Academicians how greatly he had regained
physicial strength, voice, energy after the
state of weakness, exhaustion, senility, in
which his learned friends had seen him
sunk for several years past—they sur-
rounded him with their enthusiastic ap-
plause and felicitations.
/NsußFyv<s/? x.jrS.'
Jf /S Afi
. 7jf /f&staiA* Coup
J}//.pot 6 fiM*? /? / ■
-3 <^\
Yf**>
/hare m CgfCffi’d- ?pare
Aatev rf? fai?ea?iij[ f/'/ M
//■ and fid Cam/
/j 55 U#A N Cf. V rfia -ZZ ' ' /
Ti//h S/ates spy"
11 1 'jcacf'"
( X« «• c /°/‘ * * ,n ~' /
' K /A/f^
'? /»■&>*"94* 4h^/-
' y ' e &'?saP/<f J^y/jr//-jf*/-
I ~ ■ "
'7/2? (
QRFkJ
Clearance
sal£ J^
SACJ?|iPIC£
H GAJ
R ATS
/OOX.
fir c/ays fa . "fa £,
'fflhs-a. cfa/r, #?4 J
Course, fiW % au Sb W * a * r "? o/>?/-a.//w/
i':L
HEAT
Siylis//
3h
sdf
' yusr Q'
VSE TPF <T U/NEA r/(f
/=~/.///f? A /PP~
fj-j-/SASopP PyJP }
— ,
jl f| y
Ds/rK - 2>ar/ f p% J
la & rrpe* & *py <* &'*? Sellars' Js/at-r tye •
Ji fa##'*
\J D 6^7^). y^-—■ ~ / '
Brown-Sequard’s “Elixir of Immortality.”


•HOG’S HEAD” BRAND
I'li I'IE PORK SKINS.
W 2ight and Quality Guaranteed.
F. R WHEELER & CO.,
203 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
ML
DEPOSIT and DISCOUNT
82 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Arcade).
Deposits received and Interest allowed as follow:
3 Years ... ... 10 per cent.
12 Months 9 per cent.
G Months ... ... 8 per cent.
3 Months 6 per cent.
All customary banking business transacted.
Communications to be addressed to
H. LIKELY, Manager.
W. IT. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
365 George Street, SYDNEY,
AYE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of INTe-w Pianos from the celebrated Mahers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fearich, Ligp, Sonisch, Bluthafil', Collat'd, and other
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £45 and Estey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
A few weeks back the Earl of Onslow,
Governor of N.Z., remarked that he thought the
South Australians were very lucky indeed to get
such a man as the Earl of Kin tore, whose appear-
ance in a kilt was described as superb. Now
Kintore has, in his own good turn, been ques-
tioned about the Earl of Hopetoun. He said : “I
think the Victorians will be very lucky to get so
nice and able a man to succeed Sir Henry Loch.
The Earl is an able and wealthy man, and he has
a charming wife—a daughter of Lord Ventry—
and one or two children (how nice of him to have
one or two children !) I am afraid the news is
almost too good to be true.” Governor Carington
when questioned on the matter said ditto. The
news was true, however, and as
for being too good—well, the
whole vice-regal mutual admira-
tion and back-scratching business
is too good for anything—
The Roman-faced Chief
Justice of N.S.W., is “slopping
it on ” to evil-doers with a
vengeance ; apart from the fact
that all trials in his court are
conducted in absolutely unex-
ceptionable style, the {let us
hoj>e permanent) substitution of
Darley for Windeyer on the
bench of theN.S. Wales Criminal
Court will remind the enemies
of society of the old adage
about the frying-pan and the
fire. The emphatic style in
which his Hon r deals with
violent assault and burglar cases
may perhaps be remotely at-
tributable to the fact of his
private residence being located in the Edgecliffe
Road, where the residents are all wealthy and
virtaous and the burglar alone is vile.
# # #
The story goes that the C.J. finding, a
few weeks ago, that two of his brother-judges had
already been visited by Bill Sikes and that he
himself was about the only unburgled man of
eminence in the fashionable locality from which
he walks to court every day, bought a revolver and
loaded it. Early one morning, having had his
attention called (as judges always say when any-
thing nasty appears about them in the papers) to a
noise downstairs, His Honor turned out and went
down “just as he was” (to quote Mr. Justice
.Stephen). In the far corner of the dining-room,
partially hidden by the table, was a black-looking
ruffian crouching over what looked like his tools
of trade, by the light of a candle. Stern and re-
lentless the C.J., in his flowing robe of night,
drew a bead and was about to let go when the
doomed man awakened to the peril. He mistook
the figure for that of another Mrs. Dickenson.
“Please mum, don’t shoot, I’m the sweep! ”
* # *
Just imagine for an instant what might
have happened had Chief Justice Darley pulled
the trigger—(we quote from the third edition
Evening Howl, published a few weeks after the
fateful event): “At the Criminal Sessions to-day,
before Mr. Justice Windeyer, a respectably-
dressed man who gave his name as Frederick
Matthew Darley was placed at the bar charged
with having feloniously shot one John Smith, a
sweep. The prisoner, a most determined-looking
character, whose unshaven face and brawny chest
intensified the forbidding nature of his appear-
ance, stated, when arraigned, that he was without
means of defence. Mr. Frank Smythe was ac-
cordingly assigned to act as his counsel, and to
enable that gentleman to study his brief, which
Mr. Tommy Williamson undertook to prepare, the
case was placed at the bottom of the list. ”
# # #
Can you imagine such a thing as that? We
can’t.
# * #
Another Edgecliffe-road story runs like
this. Mrs. Snuffkins, wife of Snuff kins, Q.C,,
pulled both that learned gentleman’s ears at 2 a.m.
to let him know there w T as a burglar down-stairs.
Snuffkins tremulously gripped his pistol and stole
cautiously to the drawing-room. Right opposite
the door, at the other side of the room, there stood
a ruffian with pistol raised. Snuffkins instantly
AN OBVIOUS ALTERNATIVE.
MIKE (bitten by a greenhead): “PAT, HAS A SHNAIK LEGS?”
PAT: “NOAH—”
MIKE: “THIN, BE GOBBS, I BIN BIT BY A KANGAROO SO!”
fired—and fatally wounded his own reflection in a
50-guinea mirror.
* # *
A bit of romance about Lord Hopetoun,
the new Victorian Governor. His father was
greatly smitten with Miss Agnes Robertson when
that charming little actress, known throughout
America afterwards as “ The Fairy Star,” was in
London under the guardianship of Mr. and Mrs.
Chas. Kean. The Keans were set upon her mar-
riage with Lord Hopetoun, but she preferred
brains to mere land and went off to America with
Dion Boucicault as her husband. On this hint
the “loyal” journalists will at once begin ex-
patiating on what might have happened had
Agnes Robertson been the mother of the Governor
of Victoria instead of being the mother of Dot
Boucicault, Mrs. Clayton, and Nina.
# * *
This reminds us, too, of another romance
about the Keans. Ellen Tree wished for Charles
Kean long years before she married him. The
story goes that Charles had the cheek to propose
to Miss Burdett Coutts, the millionaire spinster,
now the Baroness. She flouted him. With that
he rushed to the theatre, met Ellen Tree, and
said, “Now’s your chance, Ellen, take me —”
which she did like a bird, as sharp as Eugenie
snapped up Napoleon 111.
#. * *
On the last voyage of one of the largest
cf the B. and O. boats, a certain well-gilded first-
sal on passenger was in the habit of using his
hands neat in discussing the final mouthfuls of a
much-loved chop, or anon a leg or a w'ing. His
fellow-passengers tried to look as if they liked it,but
didn't. The gallant second mate at last avenged
the outraged proprieties by mildly asking Money-
bags—“ Wouldn’t you like to take it on the mat,
sir ?”
# * #
Which recalls an incident that occurred in
a certain far west Victorian sheep-station. The
squatter was a gentleman on whose humble birth
neither fair science nor any other branch of educa-
tion or manners had ever shone. But he had on
one occasion to emulate civilised life in entertain-
ing at dinner several casual visitors from neigh-
bouring stations. When the solitary cover was
removed the piece de resistance was revealed to the
hungry guests in the shape of a great red cray-
fish. This household departure from the cus-
tomary mutton evidently staggered our hero, who
proceeded to “ carve ” it. The impenetrable
brute, however, presented no opening to the knife
of the by this time desperate squire, who, as a
last resource, deposited it carefully on the carpet
and then, amid the joy and wonderment of his
visitors, solved the problem by stamping on it
twice.
* * *
A Melbourne land-boom insolvent, whose
schedule showed a surplus of £84,000, has just paid
a first and final dividend of threepence in the £.,
at which rate it would appear that 99 per cent, of
the estimated assets consisted of “boom.”
* # *
The grand new clock for Melbourne
G.P.O. will shortly be fixed in position, and the
local republicans are preparing to take up their
beds and walk. The time o’ day in Melbourne is
to be told by chimings oi “ God Save the Queen,”
“ God Bless the Prince of Wales,” and other
melodious outrages of an orthodox character. If
the wretched clock were to play “Good Old Mary
Ann ” decent people could tolerate it.
# * #
A “ noble lord,”now on his way to “ouah
kawlinies,” figures in recent London police reports
as defendant in three cases of refusing to pay cab-
fares and damaging cabs. Results, 265. Od., 155.,
and 10s., with costs in each ease.
* # #
The regular genesis of a new paper is due
to a gentleman whom we may typify as Mr.
1 look ham Snivey, the leader-writer, a combined
incarnation of Macaulay and Carlyle. Share-
holders get hold of him or he gets hold of share-
holders. He needs coin and kneads dough. He
comes down to the office with a heavy slab of
leading article, jabs it down on the overseer’s
desk, like a pound of pickled salmon, and then
goes home, satisfied that he has done all required
in running a newspaper. The quantity of so-
called newspapers that Mr. Hookham Snivey has
started in Sydney and Melbourne would baffle
calculation.
* * *
The gentle public of Brisbane is much
exercised in its mind over two momentous matters
—the proposed new bridge and the proposed
University. They feel in their heart of hearts that
they cannot afford both, and so would, doubtless,
pin their faith to the new bridge. But then,
you see, it costs more than a University, and
that’s something. Besides, a University is a nice
thing to have in a city. How many of the budding
aristocracy, the flower and hope of the great soft-
ware and butchering families, could, within these
torrid walls, rest the soles of their No. 10 boots,
instead of standing round street-corners in bril-
liant ties, which, by the way, is the mark of an
aristocrat in the meat-tropolis, imagining, in their
shy, untutored Way, that they are all the cheese ?
* * #
Bishop Moorhouse has pronounced him-
self in favour of cremation, which he regards as a
better method of disposing of the dead than the sys-
tem now in vogue :
We saw a retired comic-singer driving a
mourning-coach in Melbourne the other day in big
black hat-band and all that. Of course lie was the
most solemn man ever seen outside a hearse. As
Hamlet, or somebody, says : “ We know.what wo
are, but know not what we may be.” Harry,
singing his—
felt that salary was always precarious. Tire
ghost mightn’t walk. But the good old typhoid
ghost is always walking. So, Harry, stick to your
customary suit of black. Solemn as old Coppin,
you’ll find that the best Moselle is always going at
funerals. “ The dear departed ! It’s like, a
dream. ”
* * *
Bishop Goe, the Low Churchman, whose
Sydney friends have been so triumphant in nar-
rowing down their bishopric to the great unknown,
is grievously exercised over the rigs of Rev.
Horace Tucker, of Christ Church, South Yarra,
just back from England, with a batch of new
ideas. His Y.M.C.A. announces a social evening,
when they will act Gilbert’s comedietta of
“ Sweethearts ” and Chas. Matthews’little play of
“Delicate Ground.” On a recent Sunday there
was a downright afternoon concert in Tucker’s
church, with a programme of ten numbers. What’s
•in a name ? Everything. Melbourne holds up its
pious hands in holy horror at the Sydney Sunday
evening concerts,
* * *
“Patriotism is the last refuge of a
scoundrel.” A grandfather is the last refuge of a
nimeompoop.
* * #
Governor Carington stopped a football-
match on Sydney Association Ground, at least
the players did, in order to give him three cheers
for condescending to come and look at them.
Later on he performed a miracle, for we are told
in the columns of a contemporary that—
Miller was hurt, and ran off the ground with one hand
evidently disabled. It was found that one finger of his
right hand was completely dislocated, but after Lord Car-
rington had inspected it the joint was hauled in again,
and the crack three-quarter back returned to the field.
Evidently the Baron has a lot up his sleeve; if
the worst comes to the worst, there’s the tailoring
to fall back on, and if that’s unsuccessful, why
then Milner Stephen, with his ridiculous red
flannel, will have to take a back seat, when the
healing eye of Carington is let loose on public
diseases.
# * #
The yellow-garter craze is spreading, an M
the Yankee girl gets the credit of it. The bride
who wears a yellow garter to the altar, takes it off
immediately after the ceremony and hands it to
her dearest friend ensures a husband for that
friend within the year. But if there is any virtue
in the charm at all it must be properly worked ac-
cording to the ancient custom which was intro-
duced in company with numerous other religious
rites and ceremonies into England by the Mor-
mons—we mean the Normans. The bride who
wants to do a good turn for her friend must on no
account remove the garter. It is essentially the
duty of the best man to do that, and any outside
interference busts the charm. See Norman history.
# # #
The frequent sudden estoppal of the
water-supply in Sydney has its humorous aspects.
We once had the meekness to reside at a local
coffee-palace. The number of boarders being un-
limited and the bath-room being limited, we were
constrained for humanity’s sake to let an unfor-
tunate stranger into the bathing-chamber ere we
had finished our drying and robing operations.
But we never regretted this intrusion on our
privacy. Eor, lo! the festive stranger got
gingerly into the bath, let a gentle shower fall, and
then, turning it off, proceeded to soap himself all
over until he looked like the petrified man before
he was “clayed.” Then with dainty footsteps he
retraced his path, and once more stood below the
place where the shower ought to be, and again he
turned on the fateful tap. Horror ! No xc-
sponse ! The water had been turned off by that
fearful and wonderfully-made body, the City Cor-
poration, and he was left soaped but not in his
right mind. “He won’t be happy till he gets it.”
* * #
Yiscount Dunlo, it now appears, left Eng-
land a week after he married a lady belonging to
the Alhambra ballet. He is going to spend his
honeymoon in Australia; the lady remains in
London finishing her professional engagement.
Though marriage cancels all contracts the Viscoun-
tess allows her husband to spend his honeymoon
by himself rather than break faith with her
manager.
# # *
The Melbourne dairymen have been agitat-
ing for an increased duty on canned milks, and
another section of the community has manifested
some anxiety for a decrease in the water rates.
Collusion!
MORE LUCK.
Ye gods! and what a gracious
boon—
Yea, what a slice of luck !
Victoria in her Lord Hopotonn
A treasure rare has struck ;
Another dear, vice-regal lord
(An Earl, to be precise)
Has given us his noble word
That Hopetoun’s “very nice.”
He is a young and wealthy peer,
He’s very “able,” too —
Yes, able to come over here
And draw a thumping screw ;
Victoria has got indeed
A bargain at the price—
What more can any people need
Than Governors whoTe nice?
First, Onslow at his friend
Klntore
The butter thick did chuck.
Now Hopetoun they’re gushing
o’er -
There never was such luck ;
And when the charming Baron
Bob
Goes “home,’ the noble Vice
Who comes to carry on the job
Will be most awful “nice.”
Ah ! pile it on, exalted chaps,
Call each new Gov. a “ duck ”
For all we care; one day, per-
haps,
Well really have the luck
To shunt the whole inflated
crowd,
Yes, shunt ’em in a trice,
And when you’re gone we’ll cry
aloud
“ Oh ! ain’t Australia nice?”
What ! better than the style in vogue ?
Ah ! Moorhouse, you’re a funny rogue,
Straight-out cremation’s ever been
The system of your cloth we ween ;
Have not they always preached that “ bum*
From which no travellers return ?
With my trum squeak and my twiddlum twee,
My rooty tooty toorat 100,
My itohings, scratching.'-;, hoop de dooden doo—-


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT & DISCOUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, KING STREET.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits:
3 Years
12 Months
(i Months
3 Months
per cent.
Bper cent.
7A per cent.
5A per cent.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the rates.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market. ”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglis & Co.,
4 & G Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Robertson’s W hisky -
£2OO
pmzEis.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COT .ON lES
AS FOLLOWS ;
16 of £3 each, 35 £2, and 70 At,
Pamphlets from the Agents, AXjXjT &
CO., Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
His Honor, Mr. Justice “Waterjug”
Foster, of N.S. Wales, “does not find it necessary
to take stimulants.” Neither for the matter of
that does the toad who lives a hundred-million
years buried in the rock. Lots of teetotallers
would look and act less like petrifactions did they
warm their blood occasionally with a little generous
wine. However, the man who, like His Honor,
does not find he needs stimulants is, on the whole,
as well without them. Experiments may not
always be successful, and a bird in the hand is
worth two in the bush.
# * *
On a modest two (2) roomed cottage in the
unassuming suburb of Moubraytown, in the
assuming city of Brisbane, appears the following
trade-sign
T. JONES,
Tailor and Professed Trousers-Maker,
By Special Appointment
To ILR.IL the Prince of Wales.
Now Tummy's secret is out. We know why he
turns his trousers up : “ ‘Cause they’re built that
way.”
* * *
G. H. Reid, who, being a forty-three-year-
old bachelor, probably knows nothing about the
fair sex, has declared that there are “many pro-
fessions to which the education of women should
be encouraged.” Whether the legal profession
was included or not he omitted to state.
* # #
We wonder if Governor Carington has
seen that pleasant little article in the Australian
Mining Standard about “The Miners’ Widows
and the Governor ?” If he hasn’t it might do him
good to read it.
* # *
Billy Westgarth, one of the Grand Old
Man absentees, has got back to London from
Australia and published a biggish book, amplify-
ing one he put forth last year. The style in which
he writes of the beauty of Lady Benjamin, the
Melbourne Mayoress, is amazing. To be sure
there is no Romeo like an old one. The Princess
Badroulbadour, in the “ Arabian Nights,”—
“ beautiful beyond compare ” —is nothing to West-
garth’s draft of Lady Benjamin.
# # #
An American philosopher has just ro
marked that it isn’t so bad to be disappointed in
love as in marriage.
# # *
A party of literary ladies, presided over
by Mona Caird, dined at the Criterion (London)
lately. Most of them smoked, a fact greatly
regretted by Mrs. Caird. The women evidently
don’t intend to allow the men the copyright of
even one bad habit.
* * *
The new Duchess of Portland has a pearl-
neckla;e--given by the Duke, of course —which
once belonged to Mary of Orange, who probably
got it from—but that is beside the matter. How-
ever, the Duchess has never taken it off since the
Duke put it there many months since, whether in
obedience to some lover’s vow or in deference to
some sort of superstition is not stated. We once
knew a wealthy Queensland squatter —he is one
still—who wore a paper-collar for three weeks in
January, and he picked it up in a soiled condition
outside the bachelor’s quarters of one of his own
stations to begin with. Climatic conditions favour
the Duchess, though, and a pearl-necklace ought
to stand prolonged wear better than a paper-
collar.
# # *
A practical Yankee says there is a great
advantage in using the type-writer instead of a
pen for love-letters. 11 may give a too business-
like and frosty sort of look to fervent gush, but
it gives you a much better notion of how your
letters will look in the breach-of-promise report.
* * *
Advt. from a West Australian paper :
MARRIAGE.
Walker—Faipjueld.—At the Presbyterian Church,
Perth, June 29, by the Rev. D. Shearer, M. A., Charles
Richard Walker, mining syndicate of N. S. Wales, to
Lucy, the beloved widow of the late \V illiam 1 airfield,
machinist, of Perth, Western Australia.—Eastern
papers please copy.
Well,, we have copied it. We are sorry to see any
woman marry a mining syndicate. It is generally
a heartless sort of institution.
# # *
A S.M. Herald correspondent advances
the theory that the present local burglary epidemic
is due to the number of “peds ” and friends and
companions of “ peds. ” out of employment. From
foot-ped. to food-pad is an easy transition.
# * *
In Adelaide, the other day, they arrested
a thief who goes about his business in the disguise
of a clergyman. The name of this miserable
creature is George Williams :
Great shade of Macaire ! it is past all belief
That the world can contain such a dastardly thief ;
Dick Turpin was wont to rob prelate or layman
In the scarlet or gold of an honest highwayman,
And even Jack Sheppard wore togs picturesque,
So far as a fellow can judge from burlesque ;
Bill Sykes, too, has legs in knee-breeches displayed,
Like a party as wasn’t ashamed of his trade.
But Williams, quite lost to all sense of what’s
proper,
Was doubtless intended to shine as a “copper.”
Mere prigging’s more dreadful than murder or
arson,
When the prig sinks so low as to dress like a
parson.
Flabby Prince Albert Victor, of the cham-
pagne-bottle shoulders, is being packed off to
India to cure him of a drivelling affection for
pretty Princess Victoria of Teck. _ It is_ alleged
that the maiden, after looking seriously into her
young heart, decided that she had no place there
for a slab-footed nincompoop who wears cuffs
round his neck. Which is unfortunate, because
the fair Vicky is bred—through her mother, the
Duchess of Teck —to scale 18-stone by the time she
might have become Queen of England, and there
is nothing like a good heavy-weight to fill a billet
of that sort.
* * *
The stately young creature (of five feet ten
inches) who recently became Duchess of Portland
did not send to Paris for her wedding-gown. It
was built for her by a rural dressmaker, originally
her maid, to whom a promise was once given that
she should have the contract to furnish Miss
Dallas Yorke’s bridal array when required.
Neither mistress nor maid, perhaps, thought that
dress was to play leading part in such an im-
portant sassiety event, and it says something for
the good nature of the young duchess that she
kept her word to the unfashionable costumiere,
even with the fear of “looking a sight” at the
altar before her anxious eyes. According to all
accounts, though, she is bound to be a lovely sight
under any circumstances.
# # #
A late Sandhurst clergyman is now a
waiter in a big Melbourne hotel. The dexterity
with which he handles the plate has been generally
admired.
# # #
Melbourne Herald professes to have a
special correspondent in London, who says that
Madame Melba gave a magnificent performance
of something before a fashionable audience, the
dress circle being full of lords and ladies. The
Herald evidently imagines that “circles ” are the
“HE MADE A NOTE OE IT. "
OLD COLONIST (to new chum who is tip far colonial experience): “YOU SEE THAT
SHED YONDER? WELL, THAT’S WHERE WE KEEP THE ROCK-
SALT FOR THE CATTLE TO LICK.”
NEW CHUM (languidly): “HAW! DEAR ME! I NEVER KNEW UNTIL NOW
HOW-HAW-SALT-BEEF WAS MANUFAC-CHAWED. I MUST
MAKE A NOTE OF THAT—HAW!”
fashionable parts of London theatres, but O ! they
are not by very long chalks. The lords and ladies
know a little more than the bourgeoisie of Mel-
bourne, and they sat in the stalls if they were there.
We would advise the Herald’s “ London ” cor-
respondent to go home and make enquiries into
these matters.
# * #
The latest baby-story. A boy being asked
to compose a sentence containing the word
“anonymous,” gravely wrote, “Our new baby is
anonymous.” Did the teacher smile ? You bet.
* * #
By the way, how is it that the Anglo-
Australian formula of announcing a birth is the
cautious phrase, “ The wife of J. Smith of a
son?” The German, “To J. Smith and his wife
a son, ” doesn’t mean the same thing at all.
# #
A deserter who was brought before a Mel-
bourne Court the other day said that he married
his wife “because he had five pounds.” “How
oft the sight of means,” &c.
* * *
A man was arrested and locked up for
stealing his own dog in Melbourne the other day,
and for calling the constable an ass he was fined
10s. The constable stated on oath that he was
not an ass but an Irishman, and the Bench
accepted his unsupported testimony. It is a fine
thing to be a policeman in Melbourne.
# * *
The “key” used to be a favourite instru-
ment with dentists for tooth-extraction. The door-
key would now appear to be at least one Sydney
dentist’s most effective weapon.
* * #
Out in the N.S.W. backblocks lately a
Chinese prisoner who was being taken to gaol after
receiving a sentence, escaped at night into the
bush from the constable who had charge of him.
Next morning the “ bhoy in blue,” on looking for
the fugitive, came across five respectable Chows
“on the wallaby.” He charged them on horse-
back and, after an exciting chase, succeeded in
capturing the fattest, whom he handcuffed and
“yanked off to the logs,” where, in spite of many
“no savees ” and “ho ki’s,” he had to serve lus
countryman’s sentence,
# # *
Sir Ben-jam-in Benjamin took the chair at
Melbourne City Court on Thursday week, for the
first time for many months. It was the fashionable
“Fracas in Coliins-street” case which brought
Benny on the job.
* * *
A couple of Chinese storekeepers have
waited upon the Victorian Minister of Customs,
asking him to stop the importation of opium be-
cause it is a welly bad ting and does welly muchee
halm to people’s molals. Dash it all! the Chows
can’t be going to start a Salvation Halmy. We
shall be having them come round with halleluiah
cabbagee, and exhorting us to 1 keep on bleeving
Mother. ”
# # *
Half the trouble arising from what is
termed incompatibility of temperament between
man and wife is due to the sense of a legal obliga-
tion on either side to fulfil certain conditions which
the very feeling of compulsion renders irksome to
the parties concerned. In this connection rather
a good story is told of the incomparable Bernhardt
and her Mionsieur Damala, Y hen, during her
last London campaign, the decree of divorce
between the capricious Sarah and her faithlesi
spouse was officially pronounced, a sympathetic
friend and admirer of the great tragedienne’s
hurried to her hotel to offer his congratulations.
Upon his arrival he was surprised when,
entering the boudoir of the Bemhaidt, he
found her lounging in a big chair, with
“ Jack ” extended in an attitude of intense
and romantic devotion at her feet. “You seem
surprised, my dear friend ? ” interrogated Sarah,
with a divine smile. The “dear friend” hinted
that, under the circumstances, he had not ex-
pected to encounter Mom. Damala in his present
situation, above all in his present attitude. ‘ ‘ Ah,
bah ! ” said Sarah flippantly. “It explains itself.
We are not obliged by law to be affectionate now. It
is not a duty, but a pleasure, to be agreeable to
each other.”
# * *
Talking about divorce reminds us of a
story we heard somewhere of a charming little
woman who sued for a separation from her hus-
band—a remarkably splendid specimen of physical
humanity, by the way —on the grounds of faith-
lessness/ The lady had thoroughly made up
her mind, and had instructed her lawyers to go
straight on with the case to the bitter end, dis-
regardful of each and every attempt to compromise
the suit from the other side. On the morning of
the day on which the appeal for separation was to
be heard her legal advisers were astonished to find
her at their office waiting for the door to be opened.
She was escorted by a stalwart, bearded fellow,
who seemed to exercise no little authority over
her. The moment the senior lawyer drew near
enough to be spoken to, she opened out volubly
upon him: “You must withdraw the case at
once. Don’t let it go a single bit further.
My husband broke into the hotel where I’m stop-
ping and found out my room —and—and we’ve
settled it.” “ I thought, madam.” began the
lawyer, “ that we were to listen to no overtures
from the other side ” “Oh ! that doesn’t
matter,” the lady said hurriedly. “My husband
came and knocked at my door —but I didn’t
answer him. Then he called my name, and when
he found that was of no use he tried the handle of
the door. The door was looked, but as my hus-
band is a very determined man, he just tore the
door down and came in—and —we’ve settled it,
and that’s all about it.”
The correspondent of a Sunday paper
informs an astonished world that “his late brother-
in-law was the eldest of 44 children by the same
father and mother.” We are pleased to state that
the deceased gentleman’s “ old man ” was not the
Prince of Wales.
* # #
The aldermen of Sydney have decided to
pay their municipal organist £3OO per annum for
drafting out the music of the spheres from the
alleged biggest organ in the world. This may
seem small pay in view of the fact that Guiseppe
Leporello, who grinds the hand-organ in the street
outside this office, makes more than £3OO a year
simply to go away. But then, perhaps, the city
organist is to be allowed private practice.
# # # ■
Someone wishes to know how it is that
colonial actresses are more often found filling posi-
tions on the English or American stage than their
professional countrymen. We imagine that the
difference of sex furnishes a solution to the mys-
stery. A good-looking actress can always find
someone to give her talents more scope ; a good
actor may be admired by both sexes, but he is
scarcely likely to find admirers willing to spend
“heaps of money” on the conveyance of his
talents to a better market.
Private advices from London state that
Graham Berry is still a gay dog, in an official
kind of way.
A Melbourne paper prints a paragraph
about the local watch-house-keeper under the
heading of “People we know.” Acquaintance
purely professional, we presume.
Titles are honourable distinctions granted
by the Queen for services rendered to the State.
Fife, you will observe, has been created a duke
for his patriotism and self-denial in marrying
Tummy’s eldest daughter.
The estate of the late Francis Henty, who
settled at Portland (Vic.) in 1834, before John
Batman or “ Johnny ” Fawkner reached the
banks of the Yarra or dreamt of founding Mel-
bourne, paid £12,373 as probate duty.
A certain N.S. W. Judge declares that jury-
men —like ratting-terriers—can find their verdict
quicker when starving. He might have added
that a brother Judge who wants to go to dinner at
Government House can adjourn the Court very
much sooner also.
A movement is on foot to liven up Manly.
They are actually going to provide salt-water
baths there, and there is an agitation for donkey-
racing on the beach. The latter scheme is strongly
opposed by certain local magnates who inherit
donkey-money made on the aforesaid beach years
and years agone.
Sir George Yerdon wrote a solemn letter
to the Melbourne Age stating that he should con-
sider it an impertinence on his part as a private
citizen (but such a private citizen, Sir George !) to
meddle in any movement to procure the appoint-
ment of the Marquis of Lome as successor to
Loch, even if he approved of the object. But
you did approve of the object, G. Verdon —you
did, you did, you know you did. They all did —
yes, the Mayor and Sir William Clarke, and
everybody. And it has come down to Lord Hope-
toun, after all.
London Figaro says of the enormously
wealthy young Duke of Portland that, although
he has not made a name in public life, “ nor done
anything save live like a duke, the world in gene-
ral is of opinion that he deserves his luck.” Then
the little rag goes on to explain that the reason
humanity at large thinks this gorgeous drone de-
serves to roll in luxury is because he has never
been co-respondent in a divorce-suit. A duke
who doesn’t break all the commandments every
morning before breakfast is considered to be
dirt-cheap at £lOO,OOO a year. Good old aris-
tocracy !
A N.Z. critic has just discovered that even
such a careful writer as Charles Dickens was
sometimes guilty in his writings of the most
absurd inconsistencies. For instance : In “Dom-
bey and Son.” he on two occasions forgot that his
own creation, Captain Cuttle, had only one sound
arm, one of those useful limbs in the old salt’s case
terminating in a hook. The instances referred to
are; 1, “Clara, ahoy !” said the captain, putting a
hand to each side of his mouth. 2, “Squeezing
both the captain’s hands with uncommon fervour
as he said it, the old man (Sol Gills) turning to
Florence &c.”
Queen Victoria has drawn up a list of rules
for the treatment of dead bcdies belonging to the
Royal Family. The poor things are not to be
embalmed upon any consideration, and a distinc-
tion is to be made between the winding-sheets, &c.,
of males and females ; also, between the coffins of
single and married royal personages. Which sets
us wondering whether some of the spinster prin-
cesses may not require to have the yellow linings
of their caskets relieved by a wee bit of lavender
every here and there. The last sentence has a
mysterious connection with a certain funny story ;
but loyalty will not permit us to further explain.
A canny Celt over the signature of “A
Macgregor ” writes as follows to the Otago Daily
Times (N.Z.):—“ I have just received a circular
soliciting subscriptions towards a fund to resusci-
tate the clan Macgregor, and to provide for the
aged and poor bearing that name. I cannot
understand why the clan wants resuscitating.
There are enough Macgregors here to form a clan
by themselves. To me, a true Macgregor, nothing-
can show more plainly the degenex’acy of the age.
Time was when no Macgregor could or would be
poor so long as anyone else had any property left,
and an aged Macgregor was a rare sight indeed,
as the kind gallows at Crieff, and the active,
energetic and acquisitive habits of the gentlemen
of the clan were highly conducive to a short life
and a merry one. I must decline to contribute to
the fund.”


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Sir. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS OF
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD and Sliss KATE BISHOP,
in the Sparkling Comedy,
C-O-KT-FU S I-O-KT.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Slacdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
L 7 nder the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mavne.
THE REIGNING ATTRACTION.
Josepli’s Sweetheart,
BY
Robert Buchanan, Author of Sophia, &c.,
interpreted by the
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company.
The play produced under the personal s 'per-
vasion of Mr. Robert Brough.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
T
HEA T R E
ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman,
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
OP
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD.
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
■fITEW OPERA HOUSE,
King and York Streets.
Lessee and Manager
Mr. John Solomon.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. John Solomon’s English and Comic Opera
Company, under the Musical Direction of
Mr H. T. HARRISON.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
OF THE
bohsmiam g-irl.
Produced under the personal direction of
MR. HENRY BRACY.
POPULAR PRICES:
Dre?s C rcle, 3s. ; Orchestra Stalls, 3s. : Stalls,
2s. ; Pit, Is.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s.
JOE DAVIS
gON D I
Business Manager.
AQUARIUM.
The most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS OF AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchbacls Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff Daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, Cd. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d.
A.
£IYCLORAM
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama!
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama!
Opposite Railway Station.
OPEN DAILY ... From 10 A.M. TO 10 P.M.
SUNDAYS, 3 to 10 p.m.
Admission, Two Shillings; Children, One Shilling.
Schools of 25 and upwards admitted at a reduction
of 25 per cent.
“ Every detail is true to the life.”
A Gettysburg Veteran, .
R
M
A.
AT THE AUSTRALIAN WAXWORKS,
558 George-Strbet, Sydney,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Mr. FRANK M. CLARK’S
Latest Sensation,
Engaged by him during his recent tour round the
world from P. T. Bamum.
Jo-Jo,
THE RUSSIAN DOG-FACED BOY,
A Human with a Canine Head.
The Regal Ruler of Recreative Research. Thi
August Autocrat of Mankind’s Marvels.
JO-JO HOLDS RECEPTIONS DAILY
from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.
In conjunction with JO-JO many other Famous
Freaks and Novelties will be exhibited, including
ÜBINI’S PERFORMING FLEAS,
From the Crystal Palace, London.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
M
ETROPOLITAN SKATING RINK
Harris Street, Ultimo.
VST* Nearest Rink to Rcdfern Railway Station,
Finest Skat in j Surface in the Colony. TEi
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a.m. Ladies and Children only: Admis-
sion FREE; Skates, Gd.
2.30 to 5 p.m.—Admission : Ladies, Cd., Skates,
Gd.; Gentlemen, Is., Skates, Gd.
7.30 to 10 p.m.—Admission to all, Is.; Skates, Cd,
LO O K OU T
FOR
Future Novelties. )
FLOORAGE FREE, |
V
Ptrmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the dooi
every few minutes.
Lessee and Manages ... JOHN R. GEE,
S
Amusements.
JJ LITE SKATING RINK.
This Rink has the reputation of being
Best-conducted Rink in the Australian Colonies.
Here you arc sure to meet the elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
Admission ... one Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets:
Gentlemen, 455.; Ladies, 40s. Season Skate Checks
for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen, 155.;
Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever Clamp
Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate Ticket
included, Gentlemen, 355. ; Ladies, 30s. Roller
bearing, 15s. extra; Ball-bearings, £4 extra.
Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair : wholesale, 17s. 6d.
Lute Rink Bus leaves Railway Station every five
minutes for the rink ; patrons carried free.
Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bedford-
street, opposite the Rink.
Miscellaneous,
BURGLARY
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
Burglars Beware !
GB. MODINI undertakes to say that the
• most enterprising Burglar will hesitate in
his Burgling if people will only supply themselves
with his ALARM GUNS, which can be fixed in
any position in gardens or elsewhere.
He has also Revolvers of all the leading makers
of America, England and the Continent.
Guns and Ammunition of the Best description.
WALTEB IHZOIPIE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigi’ee Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold ox Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
FARMER’S EXCHANGE, ALBURY.
PA. BUCKHORN & CO., Produce Mek-
% chants, have always on hand large
supplies of Oats, Chaff, Potatoes, Onions, Butter,
Cheese, and Eggs.
Chaff' in any quantity sold in trucks at Albury
Station according to sample.
Orders Promptly Attended to.
“What is Home without a Picture?’
Tj. EERNTASCOITI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design,
- j
COACHING EXTRAORDINARY.
£20,000 Spent to Amuse and Interest the People ,
Since 11th October, 1880, Mr. P. J. Rumney’ss ,
“Wonder” Stage Coach,
has covered no less than 163,595 English miles in
perfect safety, and Mr. Rumney intends to run. 1
it again this year between Hatchett’s Hotel,
Piccadilly, and the fine old Cathedral Town of
St. Albans. The Trip is one that no intelligent
colonist visiting England ought to miss, as it will,
rejoice his heart, purify his blood, and enlarge his; '
views of English scenery and manners.
Take it down in your pocket-book :
Mr. IF*. J. B.txixiney,
The “Wonder” Coach,
Hateliett’s Hotel, Piccadilly, London..
CHUBB & PEAEGrER, Photographers,
(Late of Regent Street, London,)
“Empire Galleries,” 481 A 484 George Street, i
(over Beale’s), SYDNEY.
%
TTTE have much pleasure in making reference to the-
’' favorable notice of The Bulletin, Ist June, and
Daily Telegraph, Ist June, and at the same time in
thanking the public for the large amount of
bestowed on us within so short a time. We are pleased tO'
say we are now overtaking the excess of work in all .
departments, and trust to merit a continuance of the same 1
good opinions and favours. '
Note our Moderate Prices: " i
Cabinets, 155.; Cartes-de-Visite, Bs. 6d. per Doz,\
f-NT" Portraits at Home, Groups, Parties, Houses, &c.,
Speciality. Photographed at Short Notice and at equally '
Moderate Charges. . |
.Bead! 3FS.es.c3.! 2FS.OEt.ea. Z
“THE BULLETIN’S’'
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well- ’
known Artists, t
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland).
Sole Agents : ,
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Brisbane; J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street,
Tasmanian; Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston, 1
Miscellaneous.
S. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDERS,
Iprient Ipquare ||lue,
Extract of Soap,
liinegar, Jpacking,
&0., &c., &c.
Steam Woeks and Brewery :
KARRIS STREET, ULTIMO
SYDNEY,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
Shipping.
SERVICE TO
ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (undei
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
c isi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
* Not calling at Colombo.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
Eor all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
lOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI*
1 TIMES
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MADE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows;
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
jg-ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OP DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable);—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
FOR SALE.—Two Grand Water Frontages
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bumktin Office.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
r urniture, &c.
N
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
J
HULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM- SIDE-
JC BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
ill to match. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR.
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
D
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
sf
w
ALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
'■"=*«®dyKS
Drawing-room
cabinets.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at “WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
sdf
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
G MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
8“ EO^ADJUSTING CHAIR" and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
R
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
sf
JJEDSTEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding. All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
sf
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from
13. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405. ; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 80s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s. ; Clothes Horses, from
10s. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


The 1 horapsous are still pursuing the even
tenner of their way in London.
In a late issue of his paper Henry George
states that he will jn'obably visit Australia.
Our “ Future King,” the commonplace
“Tummy,” only owes £900,000. The British
crown is virtually in pawn.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
90 Bathurst-street, Sydney. ?
Messrs. Chubb and Praeger, of “Beale’s
Chambers,” George-street, are at present making a
“ speciality ” of cabinet portraits, which, for puce,
style, and finish, are not to be excelled.
“ Very tersely Mr. Sydney Smith re-
marked last night that he often heard people run-
ning down N. S. Wales, and yet, strange to say,
very few of them left it.”—Sydney Daily Tele-
graph. The same is true of Hell. — Bulletin.
A democratic lesson by last American
mail: — ..
By a decision of the Treasury Department, Washing-
ton, June 4, the officers of the new Catholic University,
now being erected there, who are foreigners engaged
abroad, cannot be allowed to land under the law pio-
hibiting the importation of contract labour protessois oi
teachers are not excepted.
The winter sale at Hordern and Co. s, the
popular drapers, 486, 488, and 490 George-street,
opposite the Market, is now in full swing, and the
following prices will be sufficient to show the great
reductions that are being made throughout the
house; —Dress department : Startling reductions;
double-width materials, 2|d., 3|d., 4jd. ; fancy-
wool dress materials, 2jd. to 6;fd. ; real I Mid
cashmere, 15d.; combination dresses, Bs. lit ;
ball netts, Is. a yard. Country friends write tor
patterns at once.
Robertson’s Whisky—“ Analysis.”—Tech-
nical College, Sydney, 27th June, 1889 Messrs.
Allt and Co., Limited.—Gentlemen,—The packet,
which you sent me unopened as it arrived by
contained a bottle of whisky, labelled Kobeit-
son’s Whisky, 3/6/’89.” The sample contains
49‘86 per cent, of alcohol by volume, which is
equal to 87‘4 per cent, of proof spirit. It contains
o'os per cent, of fusel oil — -which is ci very low per-
centage. The whisky has a faint acid reaction, and
contains tannin (which would come from the cask)
and traces of peat reek, but no injurious ingre-
dients. —Yours truly, W. A. Dixon, ■'
N.B. —The above is a sample taken haphazard
from one of our customer’s stocks. —Allt’s Brewing
and W. and S. Co., Limited, sole agents.
I
KL
el
sf
/Uents .
DELISSA i PHILLIPS
Barrack Street.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works. Sydney,
July 30, 1889.
Tenders eor public works and
supplies.
Eor Conditions see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Repairs, Fencing, &c., Post and
Telegraph Office, Booligal
Additions, &c., Bailiff’s Cottage,
Domain _ .
Bridge, Murrumbidgee River, at
Narrandera
Bridge, Apsley River, Fitzroy-
street, Waloha
Erection of Dispensary, Hospital
for Insane, Parramatta
Additions Gaol, West Kempsey
(fresh tenders)
Additions Gaol, Wollongong .
Hand Punt, Uriarra Ferry, Mur
rumbidgee River
Supply and Erection of Fencing at
Prospect
Construction of Dwarf Wall and
Iron Railing, Centennial Park
Erection of Dormitory, Traimni
Ship Vernon
Bridge, Lagoon, Porter s Garden
Road Kiaina to Shellliarbour
Bridge, Mandagery Creek, Road
Murga to Parkes
Erid ge, Mullet Creek, Road
Appin to Kiama
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Brewarrina (fresh tenders'
Wednesday,
August 14,
at 11 o’clock,
Bridge, Wiloannia, Darling River,
Ironwork. Cont. No. 1 (time
extended)
Bridge, Darling River, at Wilcan
nia (erection). —Cont. No. 2.
(Time extended)
Mortuary Hospital for the Insane,
Newcastle
Additions Wingham Post and
Telegraph Office (fresh tenders)
Erection of Lockup at Jugiong
Bridge, Eight-mile Creek, Road
Armidale to Grafton
Bridge, Billabong Creek, Road
Yuthong Railway Station to
Nowranie
Additions, Post and lelegraph
Office, Casino
Fencing, &c., Police Buddings,
Young
Wednesday,
August 28,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply and Erection of Pumping
Engines, North Shore (contract
No. 56)
Wednesday,
Nov. 6,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Floue. It is the greatest success of the
age.
To get a good grip of the methods in
vogue for the manufacture of history it is neces-
sary to first become acquainted with the story of
the men who began it. It is told without frills
and illustrated in The Bulletin’s “ History of
Botany Bay,” sent anywhere for Is. and postage,
as per advt. on page 14 of this paper.
Anything that Dingman’s Electric Soap
fails to purify has not yet been discovered. It is
the one peculiar combination which performs its
mission in the extinction of dirt, grease, paint and
stains from any kind of clothing, and upsets the
old-time theory about washing-day miseries. It
is no longer necessary to boil garments to pulp or
rub them to rags to get the dirt out. Dingman’s
Electric Soap prolongs their usefulness, increases
their beauty, and materially assists the user in
attaining the length of days attributed to
patriarchs.
sdf
Sporting.
Square & Compass
CLUB.
56U GEORGE STREET,
ss.
ONLY.
MON STEB
Consultations
ON
5s
The Groat Metropolitan Stakes,
|i}Forss
Run on THURSDAY, September 24, 1889.
5000 SUBSCRIBERS at ss. EACH.
(FIRST HORSE .... £soo'
■W nr n- J SECOND HORSE .... £250
ror 0 3 \ THIRD horse .... £I26J
STARTERS £175. NON-STARTERS £2OO.
ALSO OPEN ON
CAULFIELD CUP.
5000 at ss. Each.
Melbourne Cup. 10,000 at ss. Each.
Address —
Square & Compass Club,
Cake of M. Palm,
561tt GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
- TATTERSALL’S ”
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal racsi through-
out the year.
See Evening News “Brevities” for full par-
ticulars, or write to “ Tattersall,” care cf Geo.
Adams, Pitt-street, Sydney.
£lOO to Nothing!
AT TUB
CHICAGO CIGAR STOHE,
348 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Few Doors from 6.P.0.)
Each Subscriber on our ss. Consultations select-
ing a Placed Horse or Man will be entitled to
select a Double Melbourne and Caulfield Cup,
for which events we will lay £lOO to Nothing!
Our Dividends are the Largest in Sydney.
ss. CARRINGTON HANDICAP 6S.
F. Martineer ... ... £5 11 0
T. Bishop 3 13 6
Our Consultations are carried on in a most legiti-
mate manner, and we feel sure by so doing we
shall gain the public patronage.
Books Open on Hurdle and Steeple at Eanduick;
V.R.C. G.N. Handle and Steeple, Derby and Cup;
and all the forthcoming events.
Now Open: Consultations on Mooiefield Races,
We have the Finest Stock of
Imported Havannah Cigars and Tobacco.
Note the Address:
LEW BRITTON,
□4O George St., Sydney
(Few Doors from G.P.0.)
Business Announcements.
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
years Western Australia has made very
oreat progress, and, now that the success and per-
manency of the various Coal, Gold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerative
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
PERTH,
the Capital City of the Coming Colony, whilst
it is Cheap.
£lO BUILDING SITES! £lO
Ten Pounds. Ten Pounds.
Allotments- Good Freehold Building
Land. Splendid Position. Torrens’ Title.
City Allotments fr ° m £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy Terms. Dis-
count for Cash. Buyers of Five Lots receive a
Title free of charge.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad-
dress on application by
The Intercolonial Instant Co., Limited.
95 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Miscellaneous.
jEPosrfc Jackson Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Under entirely New Managemen Only
Rest of Liquors Supplied.
ows
-EMBROCATION
JIW
Jm : r-^i
Ip
'V EVERYWHERE*
sdf
Miscellaneous.
J£EEN'S PATENT UNBREAKABLE SABBLE
Company, Limited.
Factory and Office: 227 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
(Late 245.)
sf
NEW STYLE OF TREE.
The Company is now prepared to manufacture all
kinds of Saddles. „
ALFKED H. GEJvTIL, Secretary.
FOR SALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
—THY—
AUSTRALIAN [MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
E tab : shed ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OF
SO per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
m
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. John Sutherland, M.L.A.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
<£looo F©H» 10s. 6d.
oBAia
IFirsrt
& AITKS3N, 680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
Have been appointed General Agents for the
Sandhurst Monster Art Union.
Frize, £1000; Second., Tirird., £2 °o
IN ALL, 600 PRIZES, VALUED JEQ'ZOS.
ITCS3FL x TICKETS x A-T
To be Drawn at Sandhurst on 31st July.
See “Daily Telegraph,” “Evening News,” and other portions of this paper.
OIXTOESI
.A.CISjXXX ZO^c3.€3’S
-tugtet* ~%T O? UCn j£S ZESTujc 1 CONi SIIXiTiATIOJirS.
One-tenth of “Adam Bede’s” Commission will be handed to the Proprietors of The Blm.etin to be publicly
devoted to various charitable objects. The following is the list of events Now Open.
60
S PBIUG
Run at Randwick, 24th August, ISB9.
Ji SUBSCRIBERS at TEN (10s.) SHILLINGS EACH. 12
Two Tickets for 20s. Every £1 invested has a chance of drawing Six Separate Prizes.
E XT R A CASH E>HIZES!—
60
4,000
4,000
4 000 at 10s. each, Hawkksbuky Handicap.
2o’ooo at 10s. each, Metropolitan Stakes.
20,000 at 10s. each, Caulfield Cup.
ALSO OPEN
Melbourne Cup,
f 50,000 at £1 each.
•[ 20,000 at 10s. each,
t 1,000 at 10s. each.
f,,ii particulars of the division of prizes and method of drawing willingly sent on applica-
tion Pr &“»l^Wp^^^to^ Ito 1 to all drawings. The rapid increase of “Adam Bede's” business
Pl> |^^P” f All"^A^ri^^rawst''Reglst^r Mtera 1 to < en < delivery, and must enclose two addressed
envelopes and stamps for reply and result, and add Is. exchange to cheques.
Address —
“ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. ABBOTT,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY.
The names of the Drawers of Horses will on no account divulgedl by “ Adam »ede,=’ to the holder
of the ticket, until after the races have been run. p? TIIh °ADY i A ill way ur jju.au u>u.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
0
sd
fiAwSONi/jj*
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEES & CO,,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
B
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.


Tobacco, etc.
IT IS
A Fact Indisputable
THAT AT
Craig I Mb’s
NEW SOUTH WALES
BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
you can get everything required fur fitting
your saloon in any style at a small advance
on London and New York prices, or they
will fit up your saloon at short notice
From £lO Upwards.
■o-
A Largs and Varied Stock
OF
Hairdressing Chairs,
MIRRORS, HOT WATER URNS,
AND
Saloon Furniture Generally.
+
Razors, Scissors, Combs, Brushes,
STROPS,
F’uff Boxes and Puffs,
WIG BLOCKS,
WEAVING STICKS & SCREWS,
PLAIT-MAKING MACH INES,
Curling, Pressing, Pinching and other Irons,
HAIRDRESSERS’ STOVES,
Shampooing Taps, Shampooing Basins L Apparatus,
Haircutting Cloths,
SALOON TOWELS, NECK BRILLIANTINE,
Shaving and Clothes Brushes,
ANTIQUE OIL, the most useful for making
Lime Juice and Ulycerine,
II air Elix i r,
PURE AMERICAN BAY RHUM,
RAZOR HONES, &c.
Razors k Scissors Ground k Sot
roil THE TRADE.
Town and Country Hairdressers are informed that
v:e enyaye for than Competent Assistants, and, before
sendiny them, arc thoroughly tried by us.
Wholesale Agents for the Celebrated
o t i r 'iv A * *
Razors & Scissors.
CRAIG & AITKEN
IMPORTERS OF EVERY KIND
OP
Tobacco, Cigars and Cigarettes,
• And have an Immense Stock of
Tobacconists’ Goods of every Description.
Wholesale
Agents
for
j'Army & Navy Tobacco & Cigarettes
I T. C. Williams’ Golden Eagle Tobacco
i Vulcan Tobaccos and Pipes
I My Sweetheart Cigarettes
Country Orders, enclosing P. 0.0., attended to
without delay. Any Goods not in Stock at once
procured.
»
Note our Address:
CRAIG &. AITKEN,
(Next to Priddy, the Hatter),
Tobacco and Cigar Merchants and Importers,
SH« A «8 % CiEORUE STREET
(Between Liverpool and Goulburn Streets),
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
r
! r'2
■tuJ
m
n
■:v.
~ r r-^
SWffflfl.
p C/? 6g
■a i
s- —-.
-
AS S Q CIATION OF IDE AS.
Chakon ; “Hi I up there ! This is as far as wo go.”
Aksenx-mindki. old Soul (rubbing his eyos): “ Bless me ! Melbourne already.”
— Adapted.
" hen next you bake try Pemell's Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherjy, Rouslllen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled' High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 Ceorge-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & 0 0.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
BARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
ATJCTIOUEEES.
GRiV-IINT S^LSSMSINr.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
42 Margaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 9-20. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1883). The doctor has devoted 11
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box. No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
Building; Hites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans,
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96Bathurst-
street, Sydney.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BUCKHAM,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Baker's Cart Covers, Horse Umfs, Nose Ba>’s,
Oiled Loin Cloths, Cab Aprons. Send to or calf at
JOHN BUCKHAM,
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF. SHEOEDERi
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire ; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men's Hacks.
pULVERMACHER’S WORLD-
* FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
Have received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the -Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
Tor full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet _ “Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST & SHIPHAM,
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
For SALE. A Quantity of Second-hand
NEWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
and bulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer, Bulletin Office.
R-sr
-ssffrfi r ajMxMl
OlPi, ..-Afcaka^
/a
K*.
vr-*:
tL£CnUC_PHOTO:£NC. C»-._B 6BIOOE-ST.-,S»BNEY.
The Oxford Hotel, Kisig S3txre«s-fc, Sydney.
H. THORPE
PROPRIETOR.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
Ths Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. Machines on an Entirely new System,
STOCTC JUST Xj .A. TST ID IXT Gr.
FARLEIGH, INETTHEIM & CO,,
TANKERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YOFtK x STREET, x STETO ME
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland
( x )
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the following Special Lines: Peerless Gloss. Satin Polish, Nubim’
Blacking. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. £3?~’ Indents Executed on Favourable. Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
I
1
m\
,i_
[UuullumniuiinilillllitTm
D« RICHARDS
uUiii'iinniiiiiumiimmii'tTy
□
m,
r
2
H
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now beats his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be cradi-
! cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
j combined with unswerving faithfulness to Ins
j patients, he has during his practice, extending
j over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
| pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more nn.
happmess than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNO MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
Smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowel?, specks before the eyes,
ba°hfulr,e?s, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the cars and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these d fliculties. On receipt of Cd. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
tShow'ng plainly how all diseases of (he private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
i hough you be perfectly well its general inform-
lion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE FOUND LS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
de< ailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of whiclr is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume wiU be found a Ist of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances, The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
s Y DIT E IT-
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION PItEE.


Medical.
josefisdi's mimm.
By Royal Letters Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
mav be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the production of thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughoiit the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
1 WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co. ,
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW'S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows ; —-
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed)
G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
t ul/n
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teet.otallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We recommed these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known. ... .., ~ ,
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOB USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1880.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned ; —-
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, _ great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELI ON
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflcted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
. UXi
Hotel-keepers all keep Row’s Assorted Bitters
containing :
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS.
BOW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Sole Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
13, 15, 17 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements. _______
WILLIAM FLEMING^
22 & 24 Cr.iVR,E]XrCB STREET, SYDNEY.
First Award;
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
BUGGIES, PHOTS, SUCBBOUDB,
PONY CAKTS, &c., &C.
Express & Lumber Waggons.
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
% —
Agricultural Machinery,
sf
X*\Ht ONLY
MURDER!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest selected Virginia
crops by F. W. Say well, of 6
Bark-street, it will
ARREST
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure brands now on
the n arket. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the numer-
ous poisons
IMPRISONED
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bougho every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
cne who does, aim obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Beta 1 from
W + Saywell & Co M
6 Park Street,
SYDNEY.
Phonographic/ „
viiwsV#lßo mw
„
qp^cMES
ss. islands
316,GE0aG,E. &
i SYDH&V. \
LICHTNER & CO.,
318 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
e ELIZABETH STREET, 333F*! fB JES
IMPORTERS OF
Photographic
Materials
AND
Chemicals
FOR
Professionals
AND
Amateurs.
m
Cameras,
AMATEUR
: OUTFITS,
Dry Plates,
| '
Magic
I?
AND
1
| Enlarging
I!
Lanterns.
SgxxcL for New Illustrated, Catalogue.
Beale & Co.’s New Warehouse.
%
i
OCR NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES !
482 & 484 GEORGR STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE,
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us!
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which e
beg your attention for a few moments. Ottt call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the satno
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams ot
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of th«
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges. * .
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARAL, A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to bo
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had w bo
accomplished without increasing the weight ot too
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion. .
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Sample*
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone, sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
NICKEL-PLATING.— In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve tho
parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance o.
f, rlner years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid M alnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple. . . f ,
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, anti
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is till!.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the boy’s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all he stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring anti
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge. . . ... , , ,
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether tor hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
or fells braid, st : tch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold,
cord and such like for fancy work ; you may make a
prettv lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, hind dresses, coats,
or carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or niching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time ; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth ; you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
anv material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
.mods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine. .... , , ,
Any of these performances will be shown at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’s clothes
are intended to be altered. ,
\Ve have a special word tor husbands: \\ hen the day 3
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—sits down to her
sewin'* With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machi; o, a simple straight
seam • hut that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will be the greatest of all helps
to her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, it is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return ycu any part of the cost! If the
ladv will use it, it MUST earn fa* more than the Haif a-
crown a week necessary to jut.-hase it. On one little
varment she will save that sum, - > that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not he en-
larged, hut ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
reAIE PATENT MACHINE. How often do we waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly' expensive artie’es and indulgences? The Machine
should far mor>-'than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
im- or saving money as before. Is it not fairly to ue
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Free by Post.
Beale & Company,
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY,
Or from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.


fCastern Australia: the Coming .
Now is the time to Invest your Pew Pounds!
To Reap very shortly your Thousands!
The eyes of the world are now on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where recent Rich Discoveries of Gold,
GOVERNMENT (a certainity) it may, with truth, he said--“AT LAST SHE MOVES!” Be wise in time
near the CITY OF PERTH or PORT OE ALBANY, while you can get it almost given you. Numerous Properties
WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED. _ _ . _
119 a Elizatoetn
Stirooti, 3yc3.i3.0y.
Hammoquette Redlining Ohaib.
COMFORT FOR THE WEARY; THE INVALID’S FRIEND;
And a Haven of Rest For -A. 11.
fit
HIGHLY R.ECOMMEKT33EI3
—BY THE —
MEDICAL PROFESSION,
X
Especially Suitable for Consumptive Patients.
Comfort* Convenience & Curability
Is the Desideratum.
x
Patentee:
R. B. JONES,
6 BBIDG-E STREET, SYZD^TZEET.
Melbourne:
PETRE FARRELL Ss CO.,
231 COLLINS STREET.
Brisbane:
J. F, Powell, Stanley Street,
BRISBANE SOUTH.
HILL, CLARK & CO.,
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS,
STOCK: & STATION AG-EUTS,
HAVING unrivalled facilities for the Storage and Display of Wool, either in Bulk or Sample,
and having largely enjoyed the support of Wool-growers for so many years, appeal with every
confidence for a continuance of their clients’ favours. The season bids fair to be exceptionally good,
and prices realised will doubtless prove highly satisfactory to growers.
The SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
is each year proving increasingly attractive to English, Continental and American Manu-
facturers, who prefer making their purchases here at first hand. Should owners, however, desire it,
we are prepared to
SUIT 5 UNDER LIBEEAL CASH AEVAETCE
to our Agents. For all wools offered but not sold merely a nominal charge isjnade.
Regular Sales held of Wool, Sheepskins, Marsupial Skins, Hides, Tallow, Leather, Grain,
and all Station Produce. Bi-weekly Sales of Stock at Homebush and Corporation Yards.
Large and Extensive Paddock Accommodation at Homebush, Bl acktown, and
Dubbo for both Sheep and Cattle.
All Consignments receive prompt and personal attention upon arrival. Way-Bills and all further
information on application.
Wool Warehouses - CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Head Office, 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. - Branch Office at DUBBO.
THE AUSTRAL BANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
CPTIIIjIjIIPS & CO).
Reserve Capital Account
Reserve Fund
Total Assets over Liabilities
Head Office
Melbourne Office
London Office
£250,000
61,431 10 10
311,431 10 10
Sydney, N.S.W.
464 Collins Street.
1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices ....
JN.S.W.: Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
(Victoria : Lara.
Rates for Fixed Deposits over £3O :
74 per cent, for 3 Years
7 „ 12 Months
6 per cent, for 6 Months.
5 j> 3 »*
Balance Sheets and further information may be obtained on application to
J, S. F. Cowell,
6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Manager.
NEVER
TRAVEL "WITHOUT
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
sf
■ .wALLr DEVROt; :
| ALLNOXIOUS INSECTsI
FLEAS,FLIES BEETLES MOSQUITOE^
CO r.* CACHES'* %. ft NO .
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARM LESS TO
OTH
I
$
w
s
sdf
sdf
FELTO N • C Rl M W A D E.U C <?i
MELBOURNE— i
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
Tobacconists.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
GBD
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
331 Clarence Street.
First Prize-MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
MELACHRINO'i
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO I
MELACHRINO (
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO J
M. Melachrino & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
All the Courts and Embassies of Europe;
ALL THE
Leading British mid Continental Clubs
and Regimental Messes.
—Have the Largest Sale in the World!—
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best.
Sole Agents:
WARREKT & ROWU,
14 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 5 Cigarette 85/- per 1000; 9/- per 100.
„ No. 8 „ .... 66/- „ 7/- „
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
Boots and Shoes.
sdf
FASHION,
FIT, and
FINISH T
JUDGE + FOR + YOURSELVES.
We Have in Stock
AND
Make to Order
sf
The Finest Hand Sewn
Boots and Shoes
AT PRICES
THAT
DEFY COMPETITION!
sdf
A Visit will prove the above Assertions.
Tire Co-Operative
Boot Making Company
(Opposite David Jones atid Co.),
376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER,
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, «Vc.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
TT»:e*- smith, xj.s.-a..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 &EOEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 1 p.m.
»WS
°'CTn
tA'
TO YOUKTG MBN.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
r PH E directions contained in this little treatise will be
L found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will be required, as, by
'herring the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
inis admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of countenancing the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W,
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RAEONS KI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address : “ Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
mm
as milk;
Bo disguised that the most
delicate stomach can take it.
Hemarkablc as a
FLESH PRODUCER.
Persons gain rapidly
wbilc taking it.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
Is acknowledged by Physicians to be the FINEST
and BEST preparation of its class for tho relief ol
CONSUMPTION, SCROFULA, GENERAL
DEBILITY, WASTING DISEASES OF
CHILDREN, and CHRONIC COUGHS.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Business Announcements.
Sydney Canister Worlds,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Msnufa cturersof all lends < f Tins for Confectioner’,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved mach nery.
ik Trial Solicited.


Public Companies*
—
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL - £500,000-
Sydney Office :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Offices :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
(Next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices s ... Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of
interest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS s
Three Months ... 5 per cent.
Six „ ... 6 „
Twelve ~ ... 7 ~
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months,
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1\ per cent.
BY ORDER OP THE BOARD OP DIRECTORS,
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
pe (Anglo-(Australian investment,
finance £ feand Company, £td.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,000
Head Office: - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P.
Vice-Chairman: F, A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office ..31 Lombard Street, E.C-,
Chairman : Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
rpHIS Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
1 result of wise and enterprising- management, has won
ts way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
J Deposits received in Large or Small amounts
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES ... Manager
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, IS?U.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office; .... 301 PITT STREET^
AGENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits 3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent.; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager.
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATING,
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 16 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
Jambs Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney ;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
Chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
The Compagnoni Catering Co.
GUNSLER’S CAPE,
160, 162, 164 Fitt Street,
SYDNEY.
JF. GUNSLER desires to intimate that in
• consequence of the unathorised use of his
name elsewhere, it is necessary that all orders for
Gunsler’s Cafe, or Compagnoni Catering Co., be
addressed, J. F. Cunsler, 160, 162, and 164 Pitt-
street.
J ~
j. P. Gunsler General Manager.
Miscellaneous.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Holler Jflour and grain j|tore6,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office; - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“ Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89. ■
T .EOOTARD QWYM,
General Business & Hotel Broker,
No. 8, Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite G.P.O).
—Nothing but Straightforward Business Done. —
No Sale No Charge.
G-WYU.
Miscellaneous.
TUe British aiul New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 246 PITT STREET.
T)ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
D Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMPORTING
COCO A.
I LAS
RI-COVEREO.
wTUDY ECONOMY
a* d
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool t c Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
Bourke S t
ELBOUME
TRAMS PASS
EVERT FEW MINUTES
a
PALACE HOTEL
mm
Ij.A.WILSOIM
PROPRtETOP
G.W.CLARE
MANAGE*
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is—
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three SSnixcireci Magnificent Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT &, COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
TATWO PASSENGER OTIS LIFTS.
M
Ladies' Boudoir* Drawing* Smoking* and Reading Rooms.
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook & Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms : Single Bedroom, 2s. 6dl. per Might.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
■) A*— '
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
CLARENDON HOTEL, 31 AN LV,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. _ No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. TTTT .IyriKTSTEE,. Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
T.O.NG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG- • - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor
Medical,
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured!
The Greatest Success J
of Modern Times. \
CONSULT
/ All Chronic Diseases
\ are Curable.
XVI JR. H. E. KUGELSIANN,
CONSULTING ECLECTIC,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases.
60 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails'to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more;
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July, ISBS.
To H. E. Kugelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Enight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the. statement Of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that 1 was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating
me for five months, he honestly informed me that my case
was incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any
longer, and he advised me not to take any more chemists’
medicines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was
poison. I then pressed him for a true statement of my
case, and he very reluctantly informed me that I was
suffering from Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that
1 was quite incurable. During the time I was attended
by the above doctors, I was not able to lie down in my
bed, and expectorated man 3* quarts of blood and matter
from my lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this
time I saw your advertisement and decided to consult you,
which I did" in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished
me by informing me minutely of the exact nature of my
complaint without my giving you .any information, and
even without .your having sounded or examined me. But
my astonishment was greatly increased when 30U told me
that you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite
agreement, which I gladly availed myself of. After having
taken your medicines for a month I was_ considerably
worse; expectorating very much, and throwing up several
pieces of skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of
my hand ; but after this cris’s I commenced to improve
very fast. After three months treatment the expectora-
tion and cough entirely left me, and I had gained over
two stone in weight, a result which my friends considered
little short of miraculous, as all expected I would soon
die ; and from that time (thanks to your most wonderful
skill and ability-) I have not felt any return of my com-
plaint, and my lungs are as strong as ever they were, and
I can do as good and as hard a day’s work as I ever did.
I am sure that people diseased and suffering should avail
themselves of your treatment, and not delay as I did until
I was given up to die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours
FRANK E. E. KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth dav of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
not being Effected.
Are to be found in the “ Light and Life/
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Addi * ess —
S. WAPD Ss CO., SYDNEY PHAEMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BEOU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent ir chronic discharges o the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
—J. F S jFL JEt 3E3,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST & ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation:
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
51 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S Y D NT E Y.
Business Announcements.
ROOKTEY and CO.,
SAW MILLERS,
timber Merchants # Steam joiners,
TOWNSVILLE,
T ARGEST Stock of Oresan Pine and Colonial Timbers,
-Li
Sashes, Doors, &c., in Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a Speciality.
Country and Station Orders promptly despatched
F. C. NICHOLES & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners k Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 736
HAYMAEKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.


Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of forty years’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. XX. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
Musical.
THE WONDERFUL
ORGAN ETTE,
;.5
The Most Marvellous Musical Instrument in
the World.
A £3 Instrument for Only £1 15s.
We are the Sole Proprietors of this WONDERFUL and
FIRST-CLASS ORGANETTE. It is a Reed Instrument and is
constructed on the same principle as an Organ with Bellows,
and Full Sized Reeds. The music consists of perforated^sheets,
which are put into the Organette, furnishing either Finished
Solo Performance, a Rich Accompaniment to the Voice, or
Valuable Orchestral Effects. They are marvels of Musical
Invention, and combine in themselves all the principles upon
which automatic Organs, Organettes, &c., are now being made,
requiring no skill in the performer. Any child old enough to
use its hands intelligently can play, and the Range of Music is
Absolutely Unlimited.
We wish to introduce one of these Organettes in every town
and parish throughout the Australian Colonies, and in order to
do so speedily have concluded to sell a Limited Number to the
readers of this paper at ONLY £llss. each, but your order must
be received on or before November Ist, as we shall place the
Organette at £3 each after that date. We will positively not
sell more than ONE ORGANETTE to any one person at this
reduced price, as we only make this unprecedented offer to
introduce this First-Class Organette throughout the world,
well knowing that after one is received in a neighbourhood we
will sell several at Our Regular Price.
We are the Sole Proprietors of THE WONDERFUL
“VICTORIA” ORGANETTE, and you must order direct from
us, or through our Authorised Agents. Remember, the Won-
derful “Victoria” Organettes are Large and Powerful
Instruments, built in the most durable style, highly polished
and decorated in Gold ; the Reeds being so powerful that they
produce sufficient volume of music for the Chapel, Parlour,
Lodge. Ball Room or Picnic Party. There is nothing about
them to get out of order; in fact, they produce a richer and
sweeter sound after having been used a few years. For Home
Entertainments they are "Unsurpassed.
The Illustration will give you but a faint idea of Size
and Finish of this beautiful instrument, but we will return the
money and pay carriage to any one who is not perfectly satisfied
after receiving it. It Sings its Own Praises. With each
Organette we enclose a select ion of popular tunes Free, and pack
all in a strong box. If you are in Melbourne at any time, call
on us, or if you nave friends living here, you can request them
to call and purchase for you. If you wish to act as an agent
for us, send AT ONCE and secure the agency for your section.
You Can Easily Sell the Instruments at £3 to £4 Each.
Hundreds of Testimonials Received. Send money by Registered
Letter. Money Order, Draft, or Postal Note.
COUPON. —This Coupon will entitle the holder to
one of the Wonderful “VICTORIA” ORGANETTES,
provided it is sent with £1 15s. and order, not later than
November Ist, 1889. No order will be accepted without
this Coupon, unless full price, £3, is sent. £llss. includes
all charges for carriage by railway, steamboat, coach,
or carrier, all over Australia.
(Signed) The Victoria Manufacturing and Importing Co.
Address or call on the Victoria Manufacturing
and Importing Co., 256 Collins St., Melbourne.
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
x Piano. Price, Ss. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
Business Announcements.
FISH! FISH! FISH!
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
To Fish Consumers in Town & Country.
WE ABE PEEPAEED TO SUPPLY
Pish Frozen in Solid Blocks of Ice,
the blocks containing 301 b., 151 b., and 101 b. assorted fish.
Price, 3d., 4d., and sd. per lb., according to the kinds of
fish desired.
ICE GRATIS! ICE GRATIS!
Blocks delivered free at Railway Station, packed so as to
carry to any part of the colony, for 2s. 6d. per block extra.
Instructions sent with each package how to treat the
fish so that they will keep for several days. The fish are
obtained direct from the fishing ground, and guaranteed
perfectly fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will be Forwarded on receipt
of Post-office Ordor for the Amount.
All orders to be sent to the Works —
St., Sydney,
T. D. KYLE ... Manager.
; —THE —
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT d, COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
The bank oe new Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. E. GIBLIN, Manager.
FOR SALE.— Second-hand Quad-Demy
Folder, by Haeeild ; Cheap. Apply The
Bulletin office.
Medical.
%
J
h
antile Loveliness
No mother who loves her children, who takes
pride In their beauty, purity and health, and in
bestowing upon them a child’s greatest inherit-
ance, —a skin without blemish, and a body nour-
ished by pure blood, should fail to make trial of
the Ccticuba Remedies.
Cdticuea, the great skin cure, and Cdticura
Soap, an exquisite skin beautifler, prepared from
it, externally, and Cdticura Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula, from infancy to age.
Have been in the drug and medicine business
twenty-five years. Have been selling your Cuti-
cura Remedies since they came West. They lead
all others in their line. "We could not write nor
could you print all we have heard said in favor of
the Cuticdra Remedies. One year ago the Cdti-
CDRA and Soap cured a little girl in our house of
the worst sore head we even saw, and the Resolv-
ent and Cuticdra are now curing a young gentle-
man of a sore leg, while the physicians are trying
to have it amputated. It will save his leg and
perhaps his life. Too much cannot be said in
favor of Cdticura Remedies.
8. B. SMITH & BRO., Covington, Ky,
Sold everywhere. Price : Cuticdra, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
BABY’S
SMn, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cuticuka Soap.
When six months old, the left hand of our little
grandchild began to swell, and had every appear-
ance of a large boil. We poulticed it, but all to no
purpose. About five months after, it became a
running sore. Boon other sores formed. He then
had two of them on each hand, and as his blood
became more and more impure, it took less time
for them to break out. A sore came on the chin,
beneath the under lip, which was very offensive.
His head was one solid scab, discharging a great
deal. This was his condition at twenty-two months
old, when I undertook the care of him, his mother
having died when he was a little more than a year
old, of consumption (scrofula of course). He could
walk a little, but could not get up if he fell down,
and could not move when in bed, having no
use of his hands. I immediately commenced
with the Cuticuba Remedies, using all freely.
One sore after another healed, a bony matter
forming in each one of these five deep ones
Just before healing, which would finally grow
loose 'and were taken out; then they would heat
rapidly. One of these ugly bone formations I pre-
served. After taking a dozen and a half bottles he
was completely cured, and is now, at the age of six
years, a strong and healthy child.
Mbs. E. S. DRIGGS,
612 B. Clay St., Bloomington, HI
■6SP Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PIM
[PLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
1 oily skin prevented by Cuticuba Soap.
Address: R TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Customs Curse.
( FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A simple immigrant was he whose luggage it ap-
peared
They’d entered on the “ manifest ” —he tried to
get it “ cleared ”
Without an “agent’s” aid (and fees) —he wished to
spare his purse,
And tried to “clear” those goods himself, nor
knew the Customs curse.
To Spencer-street, some railway shed, with eager
steps he hied,
And to some Customs officer his care did then
confide,
Who sent him on to Custom House with hints
and tips the best
“Declaration,” “ Bill of Lading, ” “Entry Form,”
and “Manifest.”
Alas ! these clear instructions placed him in a
dreadful fix
(A kindly agent said he’d “ clear ” for seven bob
and six),
He stood and looked bewildered like —ah! soon
he’d look far worse ;
The C.O. smiled a Customs smile — he knew the
Customs curse.
The victim thought—all victim’s do—he’d soon get
cleared somehow ;
Off to the Custom House he went (ye fates have
pity now !)
And this was what he asked of scores of clerks —
an awful test —
“Declaration,Form of Lading,” “Entry Bill
of Manifest.”
Those clerks descried a victim, whom a merry
dance they led,
From railway shed to Custom House, from Cus-
tom House to shed.
Twas bills and forms and forms and bills until
the victim feared.
His understanding—like his chest —was far from
being cleared.
A month he passed in w ary tramp those fatal
spots between,
Then —passed those forms—a certain chance of
getting cleared was seen;
But no, one form was incorrect. “ Which one ? ”
he vainly pressed—
“ Declaration,” “Billof Lading,” “Entry Form,”
or “Manifest?”
A year has passed—he’s cleared at last—yes,
cleared of all his brass ;
The Customs curse he thinks removed—poor
simpleton, alas !
His box the O. O. peeped inside, and found to his
dismay
A cigar-stump in the bottom, causing many years’
delay.
All hope was fled—his reason, too —he badly fared
nor worse
Than scores who suffer ’neath the crushing, cruel
Customs curse,
Who stand dismayed when first to them these
warnings are addrest—
“Declaration,” “Bill of Lading,” “Entry Form”
and “Manifest.”
Years passed, all things have changed—the Cus-
toms curse remains the same,
Save that a generation new of C.O.’s play the
game.
In railway-shed (say No. 0) a rotting chest is
reared,
A standing institution, fated never to be
“cleared.”
And round the shed and Customs House, while to
himself he talks,
A wild, grey-headed, haggard-looking man for-
ever walks,
Who mutters in sepulchral tones, while seeming
sore distrest—
“Lading Form and Declarat.. _i, Entry Bill of
Manifest.” •
Melbourne.
W. E. IMESON.
“Lambed Down.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It’s a hackneyed and commonplace story,
Nothing fresh, nothing new to relate—
A bushman, big cheque, and two horses,
Shake of hands and good-bye at the gate.
Hard “ grafting ” at fencing, dam-sinking,
Stock-riding and shearing to boot,
Two years without spell on the back-blocks,
While hoarding each cent of the “ hoot.”
He starts —like hell —full of “ intentions,”
His swag on a “ packer ” —good moke—
Singing out to his mate, a true partner—
“ This time, lad, I’ll see the ! Big Smoke.’
Not a drop will I touch at Bob’s shanty—
I’ll camp on the creek for the night,
There’s pickings you know in the bend, Jack—
‘ Yes ! I’ll send you a paper —or write.’ ”
He’s clear of Bob’s shanty and Kelly’s,
He rides into town down the street,
Books a seat in Cobb’s coach for the morning,
Puts up at the Shearers’ Retreat.
Is it thirst ? is it fate or the devil ?
That tempts him a brandy to take,
VVhile the landlady, comely and winning,
Sees his “ dough it will never come cake.”
At first peep of dawn in the morning
The boss, with Samaritan grace,
Comes into his room with a “ pick-up,”
A smile on his crafty old face ;
But the “ pick-up ” —-ah! what a misnomer—
Sets him off on the “ bust ” fair square,
And it’s little he thinks of “ the Smoke ” then—
His castles all vanish in air.
A week and his cheque is fast dwindling,
Just a pound or two more to “ cut out,”
Then his pack-horse he “ jumps o’er the counter ”
(It’s always the poor devil’s shout).
Next the saddle-horse goes like the other,
And it’s whispered all over the town
That he’s got to the end of his “ bender,”
He’s, to put it more plainly, “ Lambed Down.”
“ Lambed Down,” nothing left, sick and sorry,
Empty pockets, sore head and no “ moke,”
He rolls up his swag and starts homewards.
His back to the “ City of Smoke.”
Neither Brisbane, nor Sydney, nor Melbourne
Can he hope to see yet for a while,
So he makes his best way to the station
“ Humping bluey and billy ” the while.
Ah, me ! he’s but one of the many,
And the case is familiar out back.
For the shanties are aw’fly alluring
To the bushy that’s hot from the track.
Now he’s back on the station and “ grafting,”
He’ll soon raise a cheque and a “ moke ”
Let us hope the next time he ventures
He’ll get down to the “ City of Smoke,”
JERRY.
| Times must be very bad in N. S. Wales.
An attorney and a pawnbroker have just bank-
rupted.
There are 5000 confirmed boozers in
I N.S.W. Moral : Don’t have your children “con-
! firmed.”
[■ An ex-clergyman lately was sentenced to
two months’ imprisonment for stealing a Bible.
His conduct is incomprehensible, viewed from any
standpoint.
The public executioner at Berlin recently
kicked his assistant to death. Which is another
beautiful instance of the deterrent effect of capital
punishment.
A New York parson saw Barnum come
into church and quietly take a back seat. Where-
upon the parson :—“I see Mr. Barnum in a back
pew in this church, and I invite him to come for-
ward and take a seat in my family pew. Mr.
Barnum always gives me a good seat in his circus,
and I want to give him as good in my church.”
We want to hear Doctor Jefferis talk like that to
Manager Solomon.
J. S. Doty, U.S. Consul at .Tahiti, has
just married the Princess Polona, a beautiful and
accomplished blonde of 18 years, whose mother
is a Tahitian princess; her father is the Earl of
Pembroke, who philandered round the South Seas
years ago in his yacht, and helped his physician to
write one of the best Oceanican books yet pro-
duced. She has lots of money in her own alleged
right and gets a large annuity from Franee. Young
Earl Dudley, the youth who, when in Sydney,
wore a black tile and white duck continuations,
was much impressed in this quarter.
Jack Dick Skuthorpe, who was some years
ago prominent in the character of a modest ap-
plicant for £5OOO in return for some Leichhardt
relics he claimed to have found, has turned up
again as the rightful owner of a horse which soine-
body is supposed to have stolen, and for stealing
which the police at Blaokall (Q.) arrested the
wrong man. The Bench consoled the victim with
the information that he had no redress, as it was
only a case of mistaken identity. Jack Dick was
always accounted wise in the matter of horseflesh,
and if he is still looking for the remains it won’t
be the loss of a single horse that will stand between
him and what is left of long-lost Ludwig Leich-
hardt.
At Bourke (N.S.W.) Quarter Sessions two
prisoners, A and B, are charged with stealing and
receiving cheques. The Judge gets tangled up in
the evidence and sums up dead against A. The
jury retires and returns to acquit A and convict B.
Judge (astounded) : “What!” Foreman: “That’s
it, your Honor.” Judge: “Are you sure you’ve
not made a mistake ? ” Foreman ; “ Quite sure.”
Judge (to prisoners): “A, you are discharged.
B, you are remanded till to-morrow.” On the
way to the lock-up B tells the constable that the
jury are quite right, he did steal the cheques and
Ais innocent. When B is brought up for sen-
tence he declines to say anything, and gets two
years. The Judge admits that he made a mistake
and glorifies trial by jury accordingly. An up-
right Judge and a learned one. Which his name
is M‘ F arland.
Dear Bulletin, —In Melbourne we have
just upended a graven image of a certain alleged
“ Christian soldier,” one who cherished vagrant
white boys and slew niggers and Chinamen.
Gordon aforesaid was nothing to Australia and
Australia was nothing to him ; but what is a
Christian soldier ? We hear so much about them
(Christian soldiers) that the character ought to be
defined by authority. There is some doubt that a
Christian can be a soldier or a soldier a Christian.
A careful but uninspired study of the teaching of
Christ compels the belief that such a character is
impossible. As well speak of an honest swindler,
or a pious murderer, as a “Christian soldier.”
Yet so-called Christians pray to the God who has
commanded them not to fight, for success in battle
—pray, in fact, for the success of their deliberate
disobedience as it seems. Some great ecclesiastic
should report on the subject for the benefit of
those who, in their ignorance, stupidly suppose
that Christ meant what He said. —K.D.
The other day a degraded, unwashed
object of abhorrence, in a fractured hat and a lot
of old clothes that bore traces of having been stolen
out of a dog-kennel, was presented before Mel-
bourne City Bench. “Yer Washups,” said the
arresting dignitary, after gracefully furbishing his
nose with the sleeve of his uniform, “ I cot him a-
shleepin’ ixposed on th’ shteps av Parleymint
House.” Here the peeler was interrupted by a
snort of disgust from the grimed and mangled out-
cast, and that maligned individual slowly elevated
himself to a majestic attitude, fixed his large, red,
cobwebbed eye sternly on the “ officer av th’law,”
and asked gravely, and with deliberate enuncia-
tion : “ Constable, are you prepared to swear that
I am not a member of the Honourable House, and
that I was not attending to my legislative duties ?”
The constable wilted and shrivelled up under that
terrible glare, but he was not prepared to swear—
how could he, in the teeth of the evidence? Case
dismissed.
Kerr, M.P., of N.Z. is a burly, carthorse-
looking man with lots of common sense, lots of
money, and but little education. The other day
in the N.Z. Parliament a vote of £l5O for the in
troduction of the chamois was under considera-
tion, when up jumped Kerr and protested solemnly
against the importation of any more pests into the
suffering country. There were already, he re-
marked, the stoats and the weasels and the sparrows,
and now they proposed to get the “shammies.”
What were “shammies,” anyhow? A brother
member chipped in with the information that the
chamois was a kind of goat, Kerr proceeded to
remark that they might be goats and then they
mightn’t, and he had been reliably informed that
the “ shammy V was a cross between the goat and
the pig, and bred scab, and they didn’t want more
scab on the Wairau. With this Mr. “Dicky”
Turnbull, of Timaru, who dearly loves a joke, re-
marked : “If the hon. gentleman will wait a
minute I’ll send to the library for a book by
Samuel Clements, which gives a description of the
animal and its habits.” The House by this time
was in hysterics, but it nearly went “off its
onion ” when poor Kerr began solemnly to read
about the “ shammy ” from “The Tramp Abroad ”
—tlje animals which ran about people’s clothes
and were no bigger than a mustard-seed. Kerr
began to “ tumble ” and then there arose to heaven
a shriek of laughter which has not been equalled in
that grave assemblage since Grey and Seddon
played at tug-of-war for Joyce’s vote.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
£
Ms
£
%
%
EUREKA
\5
m
ELECTRIC
BELT‘S
hm
y
'dm
-C^i
\M S >
\
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
inwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
S’ERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
ind all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
"ladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
The currents are steady and constantly felt by
wearer. It has great improvements over all other
we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
aJt and accept payment after they have proved them-
•es'' what we represent them to be. Those belts are
le for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
d, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
id parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
; n the worst case permanently cured in three months,
is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
ials from prominent people throughout Australia,
informing persons how they may obtain these belts
mt paying for them until they have proved them com-
ewjut to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
>rwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
idteS:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
“Life Preservation,”
—BT —
Dr. J. D. LLEWLELL7N,
SPECIALIST,
LONSDALE ST., EAST, MELBOURNE.
Work is a Medical Treatise describing
accurately, faithfully and concisely the
ictional Disorders and Diseases arising from
excesses, indiscretions, and other enervating
influences with their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men, with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
;ial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
PRICE per mail, 3s. 6d. (any Colonial stamps).
To be had of all Booksellers, or the Otto Publish-
ing Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
IPHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
- 1 - and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, <kc. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists,
ft avi+i a vs f The Public are requested to notice the
WCtU.wIOLL ! words, Rose s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
EC. A— ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
W Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
JJERVOUS DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, personally, or BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain-
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mnssen, “Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK andJPOULTKY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst ;
“I have tested a sample of the ‘Magic Meal’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenio and have
to report, afte.i a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon ; —“ I
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 35.; 141 b. ss. 6d. ; 561 b., IBs.
6d. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A H. PHILLIPS,
31 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
CiM
a?
PATENT
PILLS.
w
$
»
v*
&
£
£
>
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally* admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like ‘ ‘ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to w'prk wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedv for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and - ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkecuam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Eucalypti 0
THE TREE OF LIFE.
MW <&'&&&
Victory Ointments
The only pure Eucalypte in the World
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs y also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot —227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
JUST PUBLISHED
A most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains information most valuable in Ner-
vous and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rules
are worth its weight in gold. Send your full
address, and we will send Post Free One Copy,
given away for the next Six Months Only. Write
to Professor R. T. SELBY Cleveland Street,
Surry Hills, SYDNEY,
M CONST
CORE
THE El
CONSULT IT
& Hogg
eminent A-A
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases rffthe Genitourinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
I CORBETTS BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
CONSULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 3d. stamp.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements.
£2O BUCEBOAEB BUGGIES *2O
BEST I V THE WORLD
lor £3O.
sdf
The largest Coach-
Works in Australia.
No. 45— Turnout Seat— £3s.
COPE «Sc NE WM AN,
BOGGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
B arris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
8.8. H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address : 53 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY*
“ For Framing ajicture_jeat and Well."
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-St., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
sdfsdf
sdf
MAHUfAtTuRERS
ft importers or
HATSCAPSi
438 CEORCE~ST
3VDNEY 1
Oppose (e La*setters
//
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
AST li SO/ns
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
3 YDN EY
IMPORTERS OF ALITHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
<A(
(0
THE BEST
IN THE WOSLB
'm
fiUCH’s
axinc
Hw */
PO
Jfy*£S *&NNOb g/arlovrS*
'chi It, all Sa*cj*u> % SSoretffitro
MANUFACTURED
Sold. In/
y/oreA**fi
Business Announcement^.
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
PACE Ni
Bass’ Pale Ale^
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents':
BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CO.,
SYDNEY.
M. B. Foster and Sons,
LONDON,
“BUGI.B ” BRAND AIiB & STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and
STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have late’y been palmed off
on the public :—
We -desire to warn our friends of the fact, and
to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER and
SONS to, this colony bear their name and
address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer pui
porting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be
esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the
frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information
leading to conviction of the offenders.
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster and Sons.
A 1
ELBERFELD
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
Gr.
STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rxjm, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &c
Cooperage:
387 KENT STREET £ 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and' Uarket-st., Sydney.
Hotels.
e k
M2
■ !fH i r * ■ \
UW.VVc'f V' . O*
DENS
BOWDEN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C, BOWDEN Proprietor
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
nearOperaHouse, Bourke-st.,East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience Centrally
Situated.
'WBiST'BiJElNr HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within_a short
distance of the picturesque scener;
River, which affords the finest Roi
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. iST Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are nnsnr-
passed in the colonies.
Livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Tfaos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 31s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
£3T Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather.
x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
liozidoxi Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STEEET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Bayers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Class, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
sdf
sdf
JP. ES* Xj^AJEUKIN,
IMPORTER OF
WI3STES, x SPIB I T S, x IB BIE lE2, S , x BTC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
JOHN Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old) ; W. Jameson’s, Dunyille’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennessy’s, Martf.ll’s and Sazkuac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.JR.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. |3P“ All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Mlpilesale anil Single Bottle Departments, 283 anti Syflney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES 1 REFRESHmIiT ROOM & LAVATORY’,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
-)x{
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OrriCE : GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
3XTEW
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
Now Supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
WALLACIF BROTHERS.
ms
■ ii/XADIES^-
H r fcHlLDHg^
iPW!
S
a &> ** <«
p /i ashes'* / c>
L J I BOSTON V
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOE-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Beilin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 1 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of huihanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IP YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. ' Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Genuine Swedish made
CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C. -A-. P ALSTED T,
SOLE AGENT FOE AUSTRALIA,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted,
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
IOR SALE.—A Quantity of Second-hand
i Newspaper Type in Case and Bulk. Eor
irticulars apply to the Printer, Bulletin office.
IZEsrSZEUEOT THE SWIEEBT
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine Depots
VICTORIA.
MELBOURNE
r Head Office : 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
-I New Coffee Palace, Bourke Street.
I 59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Richmond
Windsor
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
ST A WELL
ECHUCA
BEECHWORTH ...
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL
GALE
MARYBOROUGH
Swan Street.
Chapel Street,
Sturt Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
56 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aeschimann’s.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
...>•' ... Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
... High Street, opp. Golden Age Hotel.
I
m
For
IR.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and prr duces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
A pure, non-gritty Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE d y e. Ee d OT
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROW LMDS'
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting 1 , &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
Australian Rut>t>er Works,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. sd.
May be bad from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
Agents:
Victorian A. BENJAMIN, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne.
Tasmanian FITZGERALD BROS,, George-street, Launceston.
Queensland J. H. THOMPSON, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.
