

Aik your
Grocer for
Malted Cocoa.
J, 8. FiJY '& SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
‘An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Fdtitf. H
■
SIZE
fS*
p
Si
i Jr-;
Tli,e Seat Timelsee pers in. the World!
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horologieal art and of
‘he very best materials throughout ; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
able to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Brcguot Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form This
prevents coiling of the hair-spnng, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
m the world can be obtained with “Logan’s” celebrated Bregoet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive oronertv
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
Ail parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon theinterchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass USA
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, cither English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly-back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horoloteoal
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet mad®.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines u£ the United Kingdom,
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
CHRONOGRAPH
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATOH COMPANY,
Waitliam Buiiaingrs, Bona Street, Syaney.
Lever Br otliers, “Sunlight Soap ” Manufacturers,
OFFER the following PHIZES to the successful competitors who compile the most English Words imm she letters contained in the name “ Australasia.” FIRST PRIZE, Five Pounds (£5) • SECOND
PRIZE 5 iwo Pounds (£2)| THIRD PRIZE, On© Pound (£!)« In addition to the above JhILEVEJT PRIZES will be given to the successful competitors from the words “ Snsxlig’lif, Soap” for
Children Under Fourteen Years of age— One 405., two 205,, four 10s., four ss. With each list a SuJSLltiH® Soap Wrapper must be attached, and with the children’s competition a written statement that
the list is the work of the child, and the name of the school at which the child attends. Lists to be sent in not later than August 30th, addressed, LEVER BROTHERS, SYDNEY.
BUKEOUGHES & WATTS
(LONDON),
Billiard-Table Manufacturers,
All *soar tlie CS-«uxwlcs,
AJLao SUa.’vtna Texmis, Oriolset Sc Football
8 BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus: —
#
XJSE
liebis COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
MARSHALL
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfuiers, Art & Mediasval Metal Workers
KOLLKK SKATES (any make) with BItASS or WOOUEN WHEEES.
Verio’s Gas Firea, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Hiving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
lON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BY TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid .
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient Tor Children. Numerous Sold Medals.
SUPERIOR to all OTHERS!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &0., accompanying each Bottle.)
-X X
—TAKE ONLY KRTTSTTS—
Sold in Bottles ai Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 63.
Wholesale Agents; Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros.. Ltd
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
Ml
111
u
insfiffiSMS
IN
yk
ill
DIXSOPSONS
*
a
o
37
o
X
C 3
<v
SIR ROGER
V
C 3
V-
o
o
1/
DIXSONS
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and Is now toeing introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
hill, oljA.r.k: & 00.,
WOOL ft PRODUCE BROKERS,
STOCK & STATION AGENTS,
HAVING unrivalled facilities for the Storage and Display of Wool, either in Bulk or Sample,
and having largely enjoyed the support of Wool-growers for so many years, appeal with every
confidence for a continuance of their clients’ favours. The season bids fair, to be exceptionally good,
and prices realised will doubtless prove highly satisfactory to growers.
The SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
is each year proving increasingly attractive to English, Continental and American Manu-
facturers, who prefer making their purchases here at first hand. Should owners, however, desire it a
we are prepared to
SHIiE 5 TJTsTIDIEie, LIBERAL CASH ADVAIsTCE
to our Agents. For all wools offered but not sold merely a nominal charge is made.-
Regular Sales held of Wool, Sheepskins, Marsupial Skins, Hides, Tallow, Leather, Grain,
and all Station Produce. Bi-weekly Sales of Stock at Homebush and Corporation Yards.
Large and Extensive Paddock Accommodation at Homebush, Blacktown, and
Dlbbo for both Sheep and Cattle.
All Consignments receive prompt and personal attention upon arrival. Way-Bills and all further
information on application.
Wool Warehouses - CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Head Office, 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Branch Office at DUBBO
LEA & PERRINS'SAUCE
AuC
Consequence of F lm{tdtidhs^o/^THE r - WORCESTERSHIRE
SAIfCE. which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have Jo request that Purchasers t(e that the Ji jn A sjefy^bottli i
(hears theirffgnature i ' "
d£ea&&'‘
4cm wokcisstersbisx
tSA UCE it genuine v
Sauet. oftd tee Name,an'Wrapper,/Label, Bottle ami
*?* for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ;%Ceotte mmd
ttre, ,* and by Groeert and OHmon throughout the tVoyld.
WILLIAM -= CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Can’t B Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of Competition, is still, pnr excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The Old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up but he “ Can’t B Beat.”
Somethin ! Something New !
The £3 Package. “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
Smoker’s Companion! IS*
containing the following:
life. Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
lib. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
lib. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacco
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. IBs Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100. t ig-arettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long Cut, American
fST" Delivered Free at Rediern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state wha
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 5
per cent, saved 1 50 per cent saved ! Note the address
MICK SIMMONS
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarket, Sydney.
RITTENBERG & CO.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarenc® St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings,
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S CELEBRATED
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
A.Tn:x3srso3sr’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers —■
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
a Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on "Golden A
Lyre,' ’ with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MAfiKET STEEET,
SYDNEY,
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
Year ending Year ending Year ending Year ending
Oct., 1885. Oct., 1886. Oct., 1887. Oct., 1888.
Subscribed Capital .. £180,425 .. £350,000 ~ £431,125 .. £580.000
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 61,630 .. 120,000 .. 206,685 ~ 251,015
Deposits Received .. 93,581 .. 261,500 .. 391,356 ... 1,123,940
Advances Made . . .. 123,248 . 247,840 .. 807,828. .. 625,826
Total Income .. .. 200,106 .. 451,085 .. 797,990 .. 2,048,051
Deposits received at following Rates :
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, S per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.
Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH.
To persons who desire to put by
small sums of uncertain amount,
and who wish to secure Interest
upon such sums at a Fair Rate, and for EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five per cent, per Annum
upov their Daily Balance.
Ample Funds for Borrowers. Terms Liberal.
9
win m 11
|-:J US
mm i
! M l 111 11
u i ■
PREMIER
Building' Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
s625 Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in.
Cash. The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received
i n October, 1885, £25 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had con
tributed only £14 6s., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
, —— + :
Hon._ John Simmo, II. P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, Acting-Secretary*
Jt
the jn ederal Coffee Palace
-CORNER OF-
Kin f Collins Streets, Melbourne,
Containing- Five Hundred and Sixty Rooms, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors
PRIVATE SUITES OF ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished
SpecM Dining Saloon for Ladies, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table Appointments Unequalled in the City .
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL on GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING & RECEPTION ROOMS.
IECo-t, Cold and. Shower Baths.
Night Porter always in Attendance. Telegrams and Letters promptly attended to.
George Gotten
Managrer c


The Bulletin
Vol. 10-No, 496.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 17, 1889.
Price, 6d.
i^L
Chief Commissioner Chomley


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
Vr 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS To SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... £1 0 0
1 falf-yearly 0 H 6
(Quarterly .. ... ... ... ... 0 G 6
f'hegues. Drafts. etc., and all Business Communications
h, hr addressed to William M acleod, Managing Director.
Literary Couununicationg to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
. Thr Editor tv HI carefully read, and acknowledge in the
“ Correepmulenee ’’ column oil contributions submitted—
whether in the /arm of Political, Social, or other Articles,
• vrcc, Short Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, amt not exceeding two columns in
length, or sag 0000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Litters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
■ “ The Bulletin " will return all unavailable MSS. when
he address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
tesh'i those s-nding MSS. to distinctly understand, that
we arc not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Ofitcc T went y Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony — you,
can ba re The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
tor a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in, the hands of over carriers, with whom ice do not wish
to interfere.
SB-ulu&n.
►SATURDAY. AUGUST 10, 1889.
Primogeniture in Heaven.
Russia's great Cossack genius, Nicholas
Gogol, once wrote a book entitled “Dead
Souls,” in which the hero built up a princely
fortune by trafficking in the personality of
serfs who were dead, but whose names had
not been removed from the tax-sheets, in
consequence of a census not having been
taken of actual living serfs. In a case in
which judgment has just been given by Mr.
Justice Owen in the New South Wales Court
of Equity, the will of one dead soul is set
aside in favour of another soul which had
been dead, so far as this world is concerned,
for no' fewer than thirteen years. The
judgment of Mr. Justice Owen is a master-
piece of argumentation as regards British
law, but the law itself opens a field for wide
discussion. Briefly summarised the case is
this ; A father professing the Roman Catholic
faith dies and leaves the guardianship of his
daughter to his wife, also professing the
Roman Catholic faith. For ten years the
child is brought up in the faith of both
parents, when the mother sees fit to change
her religious views and to become "a
member of the Church of England. She
professes the tenets of this latter Church
for three years, and then she dies. During
this period the child also is brought up a
professing member of the Church of Eng-
land. Upon the demise of her natural
parent the child is left to the guardianship
of two members of her mother’s faith ;
whereupon the father’s relatives make a
claim to have the child brought up in the
father’s faith. The Judge in Equity has
decided in favour of the latter.
* =s #
in the course of his detailed judgment
Mr. Justice Owen explained the law relat-
ing to similar cases, and quoted precedent
upon precedent showing that the jurisdic-
tion of an Equity judge pierces far beyond
t his earth, and encroaches upon the domains
<>f the King of Heaven. In fact, the learned
Judge clearly showed that religious belief is
not the result of conviction, nor developed
by the use of the reasoning faculties. It is
simply the practice in maturity of dogmas
instilled in youth. He showed also that the
child’s natural guardian and teacher, its
mother, was of no more account in the eyes
of flic Britisli law than a bundle of old
clothing, and that all her feelings and con-
victions were of no more value than the
breath with which they might be uttered.
It is very difficult to arrive at the logic of all
this, for we have in our recollection cases in
which living—not dead—fathers and mothers
were refused the guardianship of their own
children because they were Atheists. Percy
Bysshe Shelley’s was a case in point —and
in our own day the tearing of the tender
offspring" of Mrs.’ Annie'Besanx from tier
arms, shows that times have little altered
since then. At any rate the moral of the
recent case in Equity is simply this : A live
dog may be better than a dead lion, but the
wishes of a highly-refined, sensitive recently-
deceased woman in regard to her child are
as nothing when weighed in the balance
against the rational or irrational arbitrary
will of a long-defunct dead father.
The whole affair causes a deal of per-
plexity. We know that in reference to the
Crown of England the question of Protestant
succession is regarded as so extremely vital
that any alliance between English and foreign
princes or princesses of a different faith has
to be preceded by an outward change of
religion on the part of the foreigner. We
know that there are constant changes of faith
on the part of the princesses of a certain
European royal house of the Protestant faith
to Roman Catholic and Greek Church forms
of “religious conviction.” We know also
that these changes of faith are matters of
mere form intended only to subserve the
demands of succession and title. But look
to what this concession commits us, if we
allow its application to control the religious
choice of the subject in deference to the
obligations of the law of primogeniture I
s- * #
It means the absolute annihilation of that
faith which is said to be the “ Secret of
England’s Greatness.” It means that the
missionary who braves death and danger to
carry what he is pleased to regard as the
authentic faith to the heathen, is a demented
lunatic, who makes a question of the soul’s
salvation out of a quibble of equity-law and
whose title to a mansion in the skies would
be set aside by any judge of his own faith,
should the case ever involve a question of in-
heritance of personal property, in which the
would-be inheritor followed a different re-
ligion from the testator, who might worship
Hoki-poki. It means that the boasted Pro-
testant religion, upon which all British law
is founded, and which will not recognise-
by Act of Parliament—a sovereign who is
not a sworn defender of that faith, is a thing
of very secondary importance when it
clashes with another anomaly of that same
fine old British law —the obligations of in-
heritance and the impositions of the law of
primogeniture.
# # #
“ Whatsoever we shall bind on earth,”
say the English legislators, “ shall be bound
in Heaven ; and whatsoever we shall unloose
on earth shall be unloosed in Heaven.”
Roman Catholics have burnt Protestants, and
Protestants have burnt Roman Catholics for
the favour of the God worshipped in their
respective rituals—to what end ? To have
the question of belief decided in an
Equity Court, as a matter touching, not
the soul—- which is not of the earth,
earthly, not subject to any of the condi-
tions of human legislation—but the law of
inheritance and primogeniture. Fancy St.
Petek holding ajar the celestial gate and
questioning the applicant for admittance ;
“ What were you on earth ?” “I was a good
Protestant,” or “I was a good Roman
Catholic,” or “I was a good Mussulman.”
“Ah!” Peter might reply, “enter then,
there is room in Heaven for all good men
and women, be they Protestants, Roman
Catholics, or Mussulmans.” The delighted
soul is about to step in. “ Stay !” thun-
ders the Saint. “ Were you brought
up in the religion of your father?”
“ Well,” replies the interrogated, “ Unfor-
tunately my father died when I was at a
very early age. He was a Protestant and
wished me to be brought up as such. My
mother, however, who was a Roman Catholic,
desired to have my sympathy as one of her
faith, and so I was brought up a Roman
Catholic.” “ Then,” St. Peter may answer,
“I am very sorry, but you can’t go in.
According to the judgment of Mr. Jus-
tice Owen, New South Wales Judge in
Equity, and other learned administrators,
the will of the father must be carried out.
Surely you cannot have read the famous
case of Stourtont. Stourton. I’m very sorry,
for you appear a good fellow ; but you can’t
go in. The law must be obeyed.”
TT
In the course of his judgment, Mr. Justice
Owen quoted the opinion of another learned
judge who gave it as his dictum, according
to the spirit of British law, that the mother,
no matter what her personal feelings might
be in the matter, must bring up a child in
the faith of its dead even if such a
faith was absolutely opposed to her own.
Fancy the feelings of a good, emotional,
tender-hearted woman, who has been brought
up in the odour of Methodism, nurturing her
perhaps posthumous child in the gorgeous
ritual of the altitudinous Anglican Church,
the belief of the child’s father at the time of
Ids death ! Every word she would regard as
a message from the devil, operating to con-
sign her dearly-beloved child to the flames of
Tophet for ever and ever and ever. The
horror of it to such a woman ! But the task
must be done, because it is in accordance
with these rigorously-defined laws of Pro-
perty which constitute the spirit of the
British statute-book.
Oh ! The wills of our dead fathers ! They
crush us down everywhere. New South
Wales groans beneath the gibbet enact-
ments of dead men. Society is mal-formed
and mis-shapen by the fads of its dead
fashioners. The world is paying national
debts all over its surface, contracted by dead
men for the orosecution of dead wars, the
dead objects of which are now the objects
of hatred and abhorrence to the children
of the day. Living truths are everywhere
pounded into the mud by the weight of
dead lies. Dead opinions and dead sayings,
moss-grown grave-stones torn out of the
churchyard of the dead past are flung at
every living movement for the amelioration
of man. Living science and living facts are
banished from the Universities in favour of
dead languages and dead theories. For cen-
turies the dead ghost of Aristotle sat upon
the brain of Europe and throttled the logic
of being and causality, and to-day a dead book
is wrangled for as a. plaster to the living con-
sciences of our living children. To-day the
British law legislates over the impalpable
soul and imposes a dead father’s will upon a
growing young life.
# # #
By and by the skeletons of things done
with, will be locked up in the museums of
antiquity, and no more will things be spoken
of with reverence simply because they are
old ; but in the name of common-sense let
us know this one thing: Is religion only a
mere concomitant of Property and Inherit-
ance ; is this tremendous question of the
soul’s salvation, over which sects and nations
have shed oceans of blood, only a docket
which accompanies an estate, or is it—in the
opinion of those who profess it—a thing of
worth and of value, transcending in worth
and in value not only all questions of pro-
perty, guardianship, and inheritance, but
even, as our divines contend, life itself ? For
our part, we are neither Roman Catholic,
Protestant, Mussulman, Buddhist, or Pagan
in our sympathies. We are simply Human ;
but we worship consistency, and if people
are prepared to go to the stake for their
faith, we demand also that no question of
gain or of worldly advancement, of property
or what not, shall occasion a compromise.
“ A Splendid Court.”
“ The Parnellite members voted with the Govern-
ment. The Bulletin has, in the past, spoken
plainly on the Irish question, and, as a rule,
eulogistically of the men whom the Irish people
sent to advocate their cause in the Parliament of
Great Britain, because most of the actions with
which they were concerned were praiseworthy. It
was not Ireland, it was not her representative
men, that called for sympathy or applause. It
was the sufferings of Ireland and the manfulness
of her representatives that evoked comment.
Ireland is little more than a geographical expres-
sion in these southern seas. Her fields are gree: ,
her rivers sparkle; but here also are green fields
and sparkling rivers. It is Ireland as the Rachel
of nations, Ireland as the pariah of civilisation,
Ireland as the shambles of political oppression, as
the battlefield where right, physically weak, con-
tends with powerful wrong, that calls for the ser-
vice of voice and pen. Blood tells, of course, to
an extent. The composition of the people of
Australia makes the Irish cause immediate and
direct. But in and around this there is an Aus-
tralian sentiment, and that sentiment is aroused,
not primarily or exclusively by Ireland ; but by
any and every enslaved nation that struggles to be
free.
% #
6 The Parnellite members voted with the Go-
vernment.” The question at issue in the Imperial
Parliament was as to the propriety of increasing
the royal allowances. The Parnellite membeis
who are assumed to be the voice of the Irish
people voted to increase them, but Mr. Henry
Labouchere, considering that the royal allow-
ances were already large enough, moved that an
increase should not be granted. His motion was
rejected by 398 votes to 110. Mr. John Mobley
considered that if the present increase were
agreed to, it should be on the understanding that
there would be no further increase hereafter, and
he tabled a motion to that effect which was rejected
by 355 to 134 votes. The Tories, Whigs, and
“ Home Rulers ” stood together, and, with hearts
beating as one, voted down the party who think
that Royalty costs too much. They voted down
the party who think that it costs enough. They
voted down the party who agree to continue the
sum it at present gets and the increase it at present
asks, but who want the demands stopped there.
Together they fought and won. Had the Par-
nellites taken the other side, Whigs and Tories
would still have won. That, however, is not the
point. The point is, that when those who profess
to speak for Ireland were called on to speak on
that question, they declared themselves in favour
of continuing and increasing the royal allowances.
Whether their votes had, or had not any effect
does not matter. That expression of their opinion
stands.
* # *
Gladstone favoured the continuance of a
“splendid < Court.” Perhaps we may say that
no man is intellectually awake at all times. Even
the good Homer sometimes slept. Gladstone
grew up in the presence of a wealthy Court.
His youth and early manhood were passed in
sight of it. He was of the people in one sense,
but had never in his own body been pinched as
they were and are. He entered public life with no
message from grimy wage-earners. He hovered
above the heads of the toiling masses, dropping
blessings upon them from time to time, but he
never walked with them in the streets of their
daily lives. He did not work with them at bench
or sit with them at table. Their griefs did not
penetrate and torture him. A handful of gravel
from the Pass at Thermopylae, a piece of pottery
from the ruins of Pompeii, the cincture of a vestal
from the plains of Troy, a barren dogma of a
barren creed, a Cobdenite maxim, and a national
massacre, all arouse, fire and force him into
energetic action. His heart feels for the swelter-
ing mass of England’s poor, but it is not gnawed
by their sufferings, because his eye does not rest
long enough on them. When, then, Mr. Glad-
stone maintains the necessity of continuing a
splendid Court-, he occupies a position that can be
reasoned out, and any regret which the position
inspires is amply compensated for, by his life of
magnificent services. At Queen Victoria’s mar-
riage the Whig Government of the day demanded
£50,000 a year for Prince Albert. The Tories
then were out of temper, and Parliament reduced
the annuity to £30,000. To-day it is the turn of
the Tories. Victoria’s grandchildren are grow-
ing men and women. The Tories demand in-
creased allowances to meet their needs, and the
leader of the Liberal-Radical party joins hands
with the Tories.
# # *
Gladstone but kneels to the idol of his youth.
But why are the Parnellites kneeling? These
have sprung directly from the ranks of the people.
The few of them who have not thus sprung, main-
tain their position as representatives by saying
that their hearts beat, stroke for stroke, with the
hearts of the toiling masses. What, then, do they
mean by voting for this splendid Court ? Their
country folk starve in bogs, in garrets and in
cellars. Their hats go round the civilised world one
day for the means to allay the pangs of a nation
in famine, and the next, the means wherewith to
carry on the struggle for political life. They
stand in front of a people in rags and hunger—a
people whose empty pockets are agape for the
world’s halfpence and whose empty stomachs
solicit the world’s half-eaten crusts. It is for that
people they demand this “splendid Court.” Her
Majesty received at her coronation a Civil List of
over £lOOO a day. A score of palaces were left at
her disposal. Her relatives and friends were
housed and fed and her children provided for.
Between the day she was crowned and the present,
her subjects have given her over twenty millions
of pounds as royal allowances. Every pound of
this meant twenty shillings, and to every shilling
of every pound, the folks in the bogs and the
garrets contributed something. Hid there come
voices from the bogs and the garrets calling on the
Parnellites to vote with the Government to in-
crease these allowances ? If not, what then ?
* * *
Perhaps the Parnellites desired to stand by
Gladstone. Perhaps they desired to give proof
of their attachment to the Throne. Perhaps they
followed their individual convictions. To legislate
on the basis of personal friendship is to indulge a
dangerous weakness. There are higher things
than friendship: there are nobler things than
tendering homage, even when homage is absolutely
due. The second supposition is as little reassur-
ing. Policy is on great occasions a brittle staff.
A suspicion of disloyalty may be hard to bear, a
suspicion of insincerity is harder. Few of those
who did not believe in the attachment of the
Parnellites to the Throne before this vote was
given, will believe in it now it has been given.
Many of them will add to their imputation of dis-
loyalty, the impution of strategic yet ignoble in-
sincerity. An open foe may be respected. A
foe masquerading as a friend is when the mask is
seen through, disreputably contemptible. But it
may be that the Parnellite members voted in all
candour and good faith for the amplification of
this splendid Court. Looking at the subject all
round, it is more creditable to them to take that
view than any other at present open. They did
not, on this hypothesis, represent the bog or the
garrett. They did not represent the tradesman’s
bench or the dealer’s counter. They simply repre-
sented themselves. They felt within them that a
splendid Court was an imperative necessity, and
they registered their votes as an expression of that
feeling.
# & #
That causes us to ask—What is Ireland going to
do when she gets Home Rule? Is she to continue
this splendid Court? Whether she breaks with
England, or not, does not matter. If the Par-
nellite members sincerely feel a splendid Court to
be a necessity they will, whether severed from
England or not, continue to feel that way, and,
act ng on their feelings, they, the probable rulers
of the future, if unable to pay homage to a splendid
Court in England, will construct one for them-
selves in Dublin. Now, how much good will
Home Rule be with this, and all that follows from
it, in operation? Ireland cannot, we admit, expect
to get everything at once. Her first business is to
get Home Rule. But even for Home Rule she
may pay too dear a price. She may give a dan-
gerous class of men a dangerous hold on the genius
of her public life. They will save her, and may
then maim her. The glamour of an extravagant
Royalty may make them stone-blind to her true
interests. If Ireland is to be democratic when she
wins Home Rule, she should try to win Home
Rule by the hands of democrats. To win it by the
hands of those who, with the squalor and desti-
tution of their country before their eyes, vote
increased burdens on the people to maintain a
“ splendid Court,” is to make use of instruments
which, before she can take one step forward as a
people’s nation, she must break and cast away.
The Wisdom of the Wise.
Bernard Ringkose Wise is a young man of the
cynically patrician brand. He was educated in
the Tory atmosphere of Oxford, where he won
several races during his collegiate course. He
is eminently respectable and had a Judge for a
father. When the New. South Wales Foreign-
trade soft-goods interests called loudly for a smart-
talking juvenile to represent them in the national
talking-emporium, B. R. applied for the situation,
and got it. He was wonderfully well suited to
the billet; he was adroit, superficial, and “ cul-
tured.” Besides, he had a good family connec-
tion. Hence, he managed to sprint into Parlia-
ment. Recommended by a “ genteel ” figure and
a glib tongue, he managed to sprint into office;
where he remained long enough to make himself
ridiculous by the clumsy manufacture, in his posi-
tion as Attorney-General, of a disjointed Bank-
ruptcy Act. B. R. made a second attempt to sprint
for the Parliamentary Stake's, but this time lie
was unsuccessful, being ignominiously defeated by
one Crick, a complete political neophyte who had
never been to Oxford, and whe never had absorbed
any more culture than his native Australia afforded.
Then Mr. B. R. Wise called together all the wits
he had left and proceeded to take a lesson from his
chief. Parkes was the bearer of the gonfalon of
k reetrade, true; but though, “not an Orangeman,”
he was also the advance-guard of Orangeism. To
the politician who can entwine upon his thyrsus
the laurel of political rule with the deadly night-
shade of sectarian bigotry, Success throws all her
favours. Wise in his day and generation, B. R.,
quite unconsciously no doubt, took a leaf from out
his leader’s correct book for the parliamentary
races and proceeded to consolidate the party of
Freetrade and Orangeism. Had the New South
Wales Roman Catholics been in the majority his
determination might possibly have been different.
But they number about only one-fifth of the total
population, hence if the Protestants can be
convinced that Protection is correlative with
Popery they will vote en masse for Freetrade,
not because they are Freetraders, but be-
cause the unreasoning hatred of another
party’s ideas regarding the infallibility of their
supreme pontiff, and the real nature of bread
and wine when used in a certain connection, arc
somewhat different from their own. So Mr. B. R.
Wise wrote his now celebrated article on “Aus-
tralian Politics” and sent it to the editor of
Macmillan’s Magazine, who, understanding that
the writer had won races at so highly aristo-
cratic and intellectual a. place as Oxford and


The Americans are finding a solution of the liquor
trouble, not in prohibition, but in high licenses.
At Philadelphia, where there was 00,000 majority
against Prohibition, the high license-law has been
enforced with such rigour that two-thirds of the
grog-vendors have gone out of business. There
are now in that city only 2200 liquor stores re-
maining from the 7000 open in 1887, and it is
believed that half even of these 2200 are doomed
to extinction. With high licenses the man who
has invested a thousand dollars for the privilege
to sell liquor for a year becomes the most eager,
as he is the most interested, guardian of the law ;
while in practice, prohibition merely results in the
creation of a number of illicit saloons conducted
by the most reckless and desperate members of
the community. We believe that a higher license
and a very strict and strictly enforced adultera-
tion act, would result in sweeping out of existence
half of the thousands of Australian city “ pubs,”
which can at present only be run profitably by
selling inferior and poisonously-adulterated liquor
and otherwise encouraging drunkenness of the
vilest order
Buy at the railway-station for a shilling
The Bulletin's “Illustrated History of Botany
Bay.” That in your hand, you won t bother about
the scenery by the way.
was not absolutely an uncultured aborigine, pub-
lished it in the July number of his periodical.
Now, Mr. B. R. Wise’s article is rather clever,
and if there were no such a thing as logic—the
existence of which foot-racers are not ° always
keenly alive to —he would remain master of a very
prettily-arranged position; only, unfortunately
for him, the arguments ho applies to the Roman
Catholic party, apply equally well to the party to
which Mr. Wise and his friend and leader, Sir
Henry Parses, owed their seats two elections
since.
#
Air. Wise remarks :
A general election has lately taken place In the three
largest colonies—New South Wales, Queensland, and Vic-
toria. In each of these contests the Irish vote has played
an important part. .In New South Wales it was given as a
■ block vote in favour of Protection. In Victoria, where the
fiscal question was not in issue, it was given as a block
v ote to the publicans, with a pious opinion in favour of
Freetrade. In Queensland it was given as a block vote in
favour of “Nationalism.” Through all these inconsis-
tencies there is one guiding clue : in every case the vote
ivas cast against the Government.
Of course, there is a little bitterness about the
“general election” M'hich has “lately taken
place.” Air. \V ise’s seat lias been taken from him
by a young Australian of Irish parentage and of
; the Roman Catholic faith, hence we forgive the
animus. Mr. Wise contends that Protection is
purely and solely a Roman Catholic and Irish
movement. Is it? If his contention is correct
Protection is doomed. There are not enough
Irishmen in New South Wales of the Papist faith
to worry about. Air. Wise loses his time in fight-
ing against the M ind. Besides, logically, he need
fear nothing. If Protection is purely a Papal-
mmi-Alilesian movement, a Protectionist Govern-
ment formed out of such material could not
last half a session. -An appeal to the country
would shatter the fiscal enactments of such It
> Ministry to the ground. Again, if it be
an argument against Protection that it is
Irish and Roman Catholic, it is equally an
argument against Freetrade, if it be Irish' and
Orangeistic -for most English Protestants arc
as indifferent to the caresses of the Yellow Pup
as they are to the cajoleries of the green dragon.
Air. Wise, mu may point out, finds an argument
against even temperance, because in New South
Wales Cardinal Moran favours it. He says that
in every ease the Irish vote Mas cast against the
Government. The plan, then, is a simple one—
the Orange Lodges must be won over to Protec-
tion, and the Government they elect to power
must carefully exclude Irishmen of the Roman
Catholic faith. According to Mr. Wise, every
Papist in the land would, in almost no time, go
“solid’’for Freetrade, and against the Govern-
ment. Does Mr, Wise not perceive that in trying
to consolidate his opponents by accusations of
this kind, he is injuring his own cause and the
■ause of liis party ? He infers that it is iniquitous
‘to use religion to political ends. He surely can
nave no other object in view, when lie accuses the
Irish Roman Catholics in Australia of doing so,
than to use the religious animus of Orangeism for
•purely political purposes. If it is dishonourable
ind base to vote the Protectionist ticket because
rou happen to be an Irish Roman Catholic, it is
equally dishonourable and base to vote the Free-
rade. ticket because yon happen to be an English
jr a Scotch Protestant.
* * £
If Protection comes about to-morrow whete will
Mr. Wise be as a logician ? He says :
Only two years ago in New South Wales the Protec-
tionists Merc a small body ot Sydney artizans, most of
>vhom were Protestants. Since that time Sir llnxnv
Parkks, the author of the Education Act, pronounced
strongly for Freetrade, and in two years every Irish
Member, with only one exception, has' become a Protec-
tionist. and nearly every Irish vote in the colony is cast
against Freetrade.
Of course, the one exception is Dan O’Connor,
out what about Haynes ? Has he shown no zeal
'or the cause of Freetrade combined with Orange;-
dui ? But let us see M’hat inference is to be drawn
Tom the above statement ! Mr. Wise says that
die first Protectionists in New South Wales were
Protestant artizans. Can this be? Were there
not some among them tainted with Papist doc-
trines? Sir Henry Parkks himself was once a
Protectionist, and, no doubt, during that be-
nighted period his feet often strayed unwittingly
in the direction of the confessional when lie ought
to have been journeying to L.O.L. “ Secret of
England’s Greatness” Lodge, No. 42, Watchword :
“To hell with the Pope.” Where are these work-
men new, these first Protectionists, the Protestant
irtizans ? We should like a paper laid upon the
table of the House showing whether these chosen
lew, taking alarm at the danger which threatened
the Protestant faith, renounced their Protectionist
. views and their Papal leanings at one and the
same time, and followed Sir Henry into the Free-
trade fold. The subject is an interesting one for
ui historian to study.
Protection is coming in New South Wales—aye,
by leaps and bounds ! How does Air. Wise ex-
plain the difference of the South Sydney vote with
only one election intervening? He would, doubt-
less, explain that Sydney contains a shifting popu-
lation, and that during the period M’hich elapsed
between the two elections, a number of Irish
Roman Catholic families were purposely settled
■by the Cardinal in this particular electorate iu
order to defeat the Protestant faith. To-morrow,
if Protection were to become the law of the land,
it -M ould mean, according to Mr. Wise’s argu-
ment, that the priests and teachers brought out
from France and Rome had been so active since
their arrival, that they had succeeded in convert-
ing to the Romish faith all the Protestants neces-
sary to assure the defeat of Cobden and the down-
fall of Parkeh. Taking Air. Wise’S explanation,
recently published in Macmillan’s Magazine, no
other view is possible.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Search the Scriptures!”
Education, free and secular, is threatened in
Queensland by the bold and aggressive ecclesiastic.
We read that the Anglican Synod in Brisbane has
unanimously voted in favour of Bible-reading in
State schools, and the friends of non-religious
tuition shake their hands and make preparations
to resist the insertion of the thin end of the wedge.
4 hey need not be alarmed ! If the partisans of
State-school Bible-reading made the most frantic
efforts imaginable, to utterly discredit religion in
the minds of the young, they could not succeed
more thoroughly, than by obtaining permission to
read the Bible in State schools. The affair lies in
a nutshell. What is more absolutely incongruous
with the idea of any religious emotions, than the
enforcement of a dull and weary task bv a
teacher who is engaged all the days of “the
week explaining the meaning of text-books,
which, no matter how carefully selected, are
saturated with unconscious Darwinism and the
speculative scientism of the age ? There is only
one way of teaching religion, and that is to teach
it as it is taught in the Roman Catholic schools—
dogmatically and homoeopathically. This the
sceptical or indifferent State school teacher cannot
do. He will read to the scholars, or cause to be
read by them, a portion of Scripture without com-
ment. If he comments, true to the mode of his
training, he will analyse. Analytical comment is
only another name for destructive criticism. Chil-
dren who read modern class-books, containing-
extracts from the master-works of the age in
science and in literature, if at all intelligent, will
Their own accord apply to the study of the
Bible the cruel logic which, years back, almost
landed Church of-England Colenso outside the
boundaries of his diocese. Somebody makes a
remark that most young men, who have never
thought about religion during their lives, turn
to it m advancing age; and, reversely, most
young men who have been industriously in-
doctrinated with dogma during their youth,
wander afar from the fold at the first taste “of in-
dividual mental liberty. Most saints who yield
their souls and die steeped in the odour of sanc-
tity have spent a youth of roueism, and vice versa.
A French critic says : “ ‘ Search the Scriptures !’
this injunction has done more than anything else
to destroy men’s belief in them. ” Secular educa-
tion is safe ! The Bible, used like any other
ordinary book of school-drudgery, will be looked
upon by the State schools as simply an implement
of education. Let the Anglican Synod do as they
will—the world turns 011 its own axis once in 24
hours, and they, arising after a slumber of 400
years, can’t overtake it.
Sheep versus Men.
As a proof of the superiority of Freetrade over its
ri val, Protection, Mr. Caiuiuthers, the New South
W ales Minister for Education, triumphantly states
that—
“Seventeen years ago Victoria had 11,000,000 sheep,
and has only the same number to-day, while, from
19,000,000, seventeen years ago, the Hocks of New South
"Ales have now increased to 40,000,000.”
A little more of such prosperity and the “Mother
Colony of the Australias ” is ruined utterly. For
the sheep s back is no longer broad enough to bear
the growing burden of the entire community. At
one time the New South Wales wool-clip was
sufficient for the supply of all her people’s wants,
but conditions have vastly changed. Not only
has the New South Wales population greatly in-
creased, but, owing to the improvements in appli-
ances, the number of hands employed in station
work, despite the increase in sheep, is yearly
diminishing. Thus the profits that heretofore rail
into many waterholes are now diverted into the
dams of the few, and the unoccupied fencers, dam-
sinkers, burr-cutters, shepherds, tree-ringers, and
drovers, shut out from the land, drift into Sydney,
there to lower wages by unskilled competition, or,
lacking labour, to haunt “the Statue’’and sleep
under the trees of the Domain. Where is the evi-
dence of prosperity in such a state of things ? Many
acres lack hands, and many hands lack acres,
countless tons of ox - e lie beneath the soil unsmelted,
and tons upon tons of manufactured goods, vege-
tables, grain, fruit, tobacco-leaf, butter, bacon,
cheese, and numberless other articles arc daily im-
ported, while the idle soil, from which all these
articles could lie drawn, is running one sheep to
every fifty acres or so. The people are alienated
from the land, and the land is being surely, if ■
slowly, alienated from the people. There is no
health in the Parkes’ Government, and from Free-
trade cometh no salvation. More consideration
for men is absolutely necessary, and less babble
about sheep; while encouragement for native in-
dustries and freedom of access to the land, with a
life-long lease to the man who puts his leasehold to
the best possible use, is the only panacea for pre-
vailing miseries. Such a state of things clearly
would not suit the squatters, the shippers, the
banks, and the various ticks that lurk in the wool-
bale, but it will benefit the people, and legislation
for them, and not in the interests of the “Jum-
buck ” will be demanded by them as soon as their
eyes are clearly opened to the necessities of the
situation.
“The Agricultural College!”
I he he is ft great deal of spurious public sentiment
wasted over the fictitious and very occasional
interest manifested, by governments in various
parts of the world, in what is termed national
development and industrial progress. From time
to time something has to be done to throw dust in
the eyes of the people and make them believe that
the parliaments they put in power have any real
or serious raison d'etre , beyond that of apologising
in more or less rhetorical terms for their existence.
After a particularly unproductive and barren
session somebody is put forward to move the
formation of a Royal Commission to enquire into
the w-orking of some department, a scandalous
political intrigue is darkly insinuated, the Govern-
mental scapegoat is put through his paces, or the
under-secretary of some section of the public
service is discharged and his office annihilated on
the score of economy, and his salary is added
to that of his superior on account of the
support he has always given the party in
power. Occasionally, just to show that the
Government is awake to the needs of the
country, a new department is created, the
bookbinder receives instructions to prepare a
gold-lettered portfolio, the estimates are increased
by the addition of a fresh ministerial salary, and
a staunch friend of the Government with a faculty
for uninvestigative voting is nobly rewarded. In
new countries the latest fad is the creation of a
Minister for Agriculture, the endowment of an
agricultural college, grants to agricultural schools.
\ iotoria rejoices in these things and cackles hugely
over their possession, and now the United States of
America have followed suit. In the latter country
the Secretary of the Department of Agriculture is
a Cabinet. Minister, and the bureau of which here
tile head is ever and anon advancing schemes for
the reclamation of waste-lands, the draining of
swamps, and the resumption of deserts. New
South Wales will, doubtless—when it is necessary
to show the people that the Government is alive
to her requirements as a civilized portion of the
earth’s crust —also shortly have her Minister for
Agriculture, her agricultural college, andher endow-
ments to expensive seminaries devoted to the cul-
tivation of non-productive gravel-beds. Why? Is
it because all the fertile land in Australia is ex-
hausted ? Or is it because all the fertile land has
been seized by soil-grabbers, and now lies idle for
speculative purposes ? Is it because tracts of fat
country, which are capable of supporting thousands
of farmers, are in the grasp of single individuals,
who are insuring the position jof their posterity
against the day of judgment ? It must be so ; for
surely no sane man would attempt the cultivation
of the Sahara Desert while the Valley of the Nile
asks only to be tickled with a hoe to laugh with a
harvest t In Australia, how many of the genuinely
rich farming-tracts are cultivated up to their
capabilities ? Yet already people are talking
seriously about schools of agriculture to teach the
young farmer how much he can raise from the
desert. In the old country, where lords and dukes,
kings and nabobs of all sorts and sizes of useless-
ness,. have the privilege of atrophying magnificent
farming land for the purposes of sport and osten-
tatious luxury, the school of agriculture has a
certain excuse for its existence, but in Australia—
no, not yet. If the Australian legislatures want
to do the country real and genuine good, let them
settle the people on the land : but let it be the
'■ land and not the desert. In order to accom-
plish this desirable object, not schools of agricul-
ture but a progressive land-tax, which should have
the effect of bursting up the great estates, is the
one thing needful. There are several such in the
eastern division of New South Wales alone, an-
nexed by a few individuals and by two or three
companies, which are capable of sustaining hun-
dreds of thousands of families. The selector,
plus the Department of Agriculture, would only
waste his sweetness on the desert air of the wild
and weary W est ! Burst up the huge accretions
of landed property in the East first, and we’ll wait
for the Minister for Agriculture— for a century or
so if need be. He can come along with the other
‘‘blessings of European civilisation !
—■ • -♦ •
Work, Whisky, and Worry.
lea very large percentage of the men who live in
a city and follow either commercial or professional
callings the sum of existence is expressed in three
words ; ork, whisky, and worry." They hurry
along in frantic fashion, urged forward in the race
of life with a delir.ous yearning to become imme-
diately rich, in their desire to accomplish this
object, dearer than any other to their hearts, they
overleap the bounds of prudent speculation. They
forge out into the darkness, feeling in frenzied
trepidation for the missing step in the ascent to
fortune, upon which they might plant a firm right
foot for a second of time. Their lives resemble
snatches of life. They are always in a hurry—in a
hurry to become millionaires; in a hurry to filch a
fearful pleasure from the day which they feel is
ill-spent if not devoted absolutely to “getting on
in the world in a hurry when they eat and drink;
in a hurry to get up in the morning. They are
seldom in a hurry, however, to get to bed at night.
Those who can forget business for a brief period
every evening, rush to the club and allay then-
worry by whisky-drinking—
Tearing their pleasures with rough strife
Through the iron gates of life.
The world of Art is not free from the influence of
universal scrambledom. \ o man can now be
found, no poet, painter, musician, who lives for
Art and Art alone ; whose life is one long attempt
to realise the ideal. Oh ! no, the modern artist
looks too longingly towards the flesh-pots of
Egypt, to dream either very absorbedly or very
often of the pursuit of the ideal. Genius, like
everything else in this yard-measure age, is gauged
by the amount lodged at the banker’s. That
artist is the greatest who can command the highest
sum for his works. The great physician is he who
can collect most guineas in a day’s carriage-drive.
That lawyer is the greatest whose marketable
talent brings him in the biggest income. We do
not say that this is not true. We do, however,
say that the modern world looks no further ;
pecuniary success is the only success recognised :
the monetary standard is the only one set-
up in this boastedly progressive nineteenth cen-
tury. And it is all having a most disastrous
effect upon humanity. Poverty is the only real
crime. To escape it men will commit many crimes
we sentimentally pretend to regard as real crimes,
but which we readily enough excuse when we say,
“ Oh, well, he had to do it, or else go through
the Court.” Work, worry, and whisky ! Whisky,
worry, and work ! Each reacts uj*>n the others.
We say of a man : “ He’s taken to drink,” anti
wc add parenthetically : “ Business worry, I sup-
pose.” Of another we kindly remark: “He
drinks too much whisky; his business will
suffer.” Of a third we announce : “ He
worries too much about bis business; it’ll
drive him to drink yet.” So on through the
eternal round. We tear through the world with-
out stopping to take a breath. We do not ask for
happiness, only for wealth. Nature has no
beauties worth looking at; the earth has nothing
to give us—but gold. Hence we rush and scurry,
trying to amass enough of the yellow clay to pur-
chase us a big funeral, for the wealth a man leaves
behind him can generally be read in the number of
mourners that follow his carcass to the grave. It
is an act of the sincerest flattery to go to a wealthy
man’s funeral. It is a ceremonial of grovel by
which we show our envy of a man who died in the
sanctity of much worldly gear. He has “accom-
plished ” all that- the nineteenth-century man
comes into the world to do —he has died rich. We
work, hard, wc strain every nerve, we fret, we
fume, we worry infernally—to die rich ! We drink
with tierce energy to keep up our strength, to
sustain the excitement, to stimulate our nerves to
make wealth—so that wo may die rich. If we
succeed, we can be chevvied to the cold and silent
tomb (in proportion to our success) by a cortee/e
ranging from a quarter of a mile to two miles in
length. Oh ! the glory of it! If we fail, and
die poor, the doctor is very much puzzled what
killed us, sure only that it is one of three things—
work, whisky, and worry.
Jingo Patterson, head of the \ ietorian Customs,
has “ condemned” ashipmentof European novels,
including works by that great Frenchman, Dau-
det. Patterson may be all right for dealing
with undervaluations of pianos, and piece-goods,
but in the name of common-sense, why is such a
man allowed to regulate the literature of a
country? Is it not written in Hansard that the
inflated Patterson called Marcus Clarke a
“ mere scribbler,” and described “ His Natural
Life ” as rubbish! Novels, in the opinion of J. B.
Patterson, distract public attention from Parlia-
mentary reports, wherein only may be found the
eternal wisdom of thinkers, thinkers like himself,
Tommy Bent, Duncan Gillies, and the others
who squelched a proposal to give £1000 to Clarke's
family what can this devoted Orangeman know
about the works of Alphonse Daudet, who
couldn t think the same pettifogging thoughts
that Patterson thinks ! It is a. farce for this
soulless individual to be put in a place where
he may pass vulgar judgment upon genius,
strange to say, Mr. Walker, the late Com
missioner of Customs, a strict member of Dr.
Bevan s congregation, decided that Zola, Daudet,
and all those wicked people were to come in with-
out hindrance. The new Comm5ssioncr, Pat-
terson, of no church at all, so far as is
known, adopts the double-distilled virtue. This
is always the way. The purity of P \ttku-
son is proverbially ■puritanic. Bookseller Com:
is in a quandary. He orders books under
the regime of Walker, and they are con-
demned under the regime of Patterson and
lus subordinate Mr. Augustus Sncfeleton.
Of course, if we east forth Daudet b “ fiaplio, ’
we must also vomit his “Nabob,” “Tartarin.”
Jack, and “L Immortcl.” Holders of stock
m Byron s “Don Juan.” even in Shakespeare,
and some sacred works, begin to tremble.
I ATTEiispN has arrived. Ho is like George Ooi.e-
31 an, the Licenser of Plays, who wrote manv
comedies with a very free hand, but, when it came
to licensing others, he ripped out all the colouring.
Surely there is nothing in Daudet’s “Sapho” to
come within a league of Don Juan ! The mischief
is that the godly Customs authorities create an
appetite for books which otherwise would bo
scarcely read.
I I Victorian “Loyalty survives recent shocks it
must be a stronger force than we ha ve yet realised.
The departure of Sir Henry Loch was a. slight-
jar, but the prospect <>f getting' a real prince in bis
stead helped the sentiment along. But then Mi.
I abkin came and fired his appalling platitudes
against an audience w ho came to applaud but
went away with scorn in their hearts and Republi-
canism in their'heads. Then Loknk said the
screw was not good enough to fetch him. and
Louise elevated a disdainful nose at the prospect
of going to Melbourne. And now Hopetoev is
on his way out. He is quite fresh and somewhat
\ erdant, so much so that Io- lias lot V ictorians
know that he wouldn’t hallow their colony with
his presence if it were not that he is too sick to
stay at home. “ Loyalty' is a tender plant which
should never be exposed to Parkin blasts or to
Hopetoun frosts. Either would probably cut it
down to the roots ; exposed to both in succession
the ease is just hopeless.
V hike the English Government has so stupidly
stood aloof from the French Exhibition, the Eng
lish artists are splendidly represented there -bv
Leighton, Tade.ma, Orohardson. and other
great artists of the day. The Paris journal.-- notice
this with particular appreciation. Sir E. Leigh-
ton, President of the. Royal Academy, took the
h ad in the matter. The animal picture exhibition
of the Salon being also open, there has been a
grand opportunity of comparing the best English
and I rench Art of the time. It seems to us that
the l’arisian newspapers are even too generous in
their praise of the English pictures, for the
travelled Australian must admit that Prance
stands first in Art after he has witnessed the pro-
ductions of the living Bonnat, Bouguerkau,
Claikin, Constant, Cormon, Detaille, Gerome’
Hknner, Maignan, Meissonier. Morot. Pei.kz,
Rochegrosse, Roll, and Tattegrain.
Professor Jenks, the now Professor of Law at
Melbourne Lniversity, a nice, smug young man.
crying “ There’s nothing like leather,” gave his
opening lecture, the other day, on “ The Eutureof
Law. ’ Of course it was a deification of the in-
fernal Moloch. James Smith, in his book, “ Mel-
bourne to Melrose, writes that a citizen of Italv
can buy the whole Civil Law of his nation foi-
ls. 3d. IV hy is it not so with us 7 Simply be-
cause law exists for the bloodsucking lawyers,
and not for the public. As soon as ever a "man
protests against the swindle, lie is, of course, a
Communist, Socialist, and Nihilistnevertheless,
the outcry against the Law arises not so much
from the working population as from the .merchant
and trader.
A' number of copies of a Sydney publication
alleged to be obscene have been seized and des-
troyed by the Victorian authorities, who decline
to allow the print in question to pass through
the post. The proscribed paper is, it seems,
issued from the office of the Sunday Times.
whence is also issued a sporting weekly, and
the columns of both papers have lately devoted
much space to bold advertisement of the latest
venture, the alleged obscene publication. In a
recent issue of the sporting weekly a large por-
tion of the paper was devoted not only to abuse of
the Victorian authorities, but ty> * a spineless
crawling at the feet of Pakkes, who was
plentifully slobbered over as “the grand old
statesman,” &e. Now that Pakkes or his
officials have followed the example of the Vic-
torian authorities, there is little doubt that the
Referee and Sunday Times will lie speedily
divorced from these flattering opinions concerning
him, so readily and easily espoused. Be that as it
may, however, it is painful to behold the Sunday
Times, which, under the leadership of that manly
journalist, Edward Ellis, was a, vigorous scourge
of hypocrisy and evil-doing, become, in amateurish
hands, the sycophant of a man whom it once
boldly and Righteously denounced—simply with a
view of bolstering up a publication alleged to be
obscene. Nobody despises the crawler so much as
Pakkes, and nobody makes so much contemptuous
use of the crawler.
—
Here is the story of a New South Wales settler, a
pioneer workman, not only for himself, but for
posterity. His case is not uncommon in Aus-
tralia. Too often those who clear the way reap no
personal advantage-
six years ago I selected on Bucca Creek, 10 miles from
Goff’s Harbour. I bad £300 then ; I’ve got nothing now
but the land and -some corn and pumpkins that ain’t no
good for want of a get-away. The land can’t be mine
long, for I owe £300 on it, and I can’t even pay the store-
keeper. When I came here first there was no roads and I
had to hump bags of flour and sugar and all rations
through the bush, over logs and all, from the government
road to the hut; but I didn’t mind it, I was six times as
strong as I feel now. for 1 had 30ft acres of the richest
brush land in all the colony, and there were £1000 or
£0000 on the Estimates for a jetty at Goff’s Harbour, and
I was, at most, eleven miles away, and a steamer would
"call twice a week, and if they built the jetty I should have
been making, in corn. £5 a year for every acre I could
have got cleared, and have been making £1000 a vear.
And now my family are all like savages, and although b e
have plenty to eat, we lit c on corn-meal and arrowroot,
and milk, only e hat I grow myself : but I shouldn’t mind
this at all if there,- as any future for us, but before the
jetty comes I shall he sold up and my children will be
beggars or thieves, or aboard the Vernon reformatory
ship.”


Land at Perth, W,A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co.. Ltd
06 Bathurst-etreot, Sydney,
[?]
846 Macq'iane-street North, Sydney, August 14, 1889.
Mv Dear Moorabinda,—
The news of the death of Lady Kobertson recalls a little
incident. On the occasion of the celebration of tl e
golden wedding of old Sir John and his late wife, on tl e
ninth of last May, when the health of the long-wedd d
couple was proposed “Jack’' refused point-blank to r-
spond. He said he had done quite enough speeoh-maki' g
in his time, and if his wife didn’t reply there wouldn’t 1 e
“any hack talk” at all. After a little demur the fi e
motherly old lady did respond to the toast, and in a
manner that would put to blush many “brilliant”
orators.
The matinee in aid of the Sydney Hospitals at Her
Majesty’s Theatre on the 10th inst. eventuated in the pre-
sence of the usual gaudy throng who always turn up whei -
ever and wherever Lord and Lady Carington are public y
gathered together. “Her Excellency,” w’ho looked vc y
well indeed, wore a black silk and lace confection with
side panels of cream silk covered with flounces of blac k
lace, black velvet, lace and passementerie ; mantelette
and black lace bonnet with passementerie crown, cream
aigrette and strings and black spotted net fall, and was
received by some of the ladies—it w T as a tabby affair right
through, by the way’ —of the committee, one of whom
wore a handsome purple poplin figured with a bold design
in darker velvet and relieved with pale heliotrope silk,
while another (the wife of the debonnaire Minister for Edu
cation) wore a neat green gown, the vest and jupe braided
in black, Gainsboro’ hat weighed dowm with dark-green
feathers. The dressing in the d.c. was rather better than
usual, though one woman, who came in a blue skirt figured
in gold, a red plush mantle, and a high green bonnet, had
w hat looked like her dinner along with her tied up in a
mustard-coloured handkerchief. The performance—a
hash of those two rather giddy comedies, “Confusion’’
and “Turned Up,” with a concert to conclude, was suc-
cessful in every particular.
The youth and beauty of Brisbane are beginning to shed
tears at the bare sight of a menu, for Lady Norman, who
won’t give a ball, “on principle,” has blossomed out
instead into a series of dinner-parties, to which the young
and hitherto dancing contingent whom one never, fer
romantic reasons, associates with feeding—are invitee 1 .
These, of course, are inclined to grieve over the dulness e f
the social prospect, but the wiser chaperons are congratu-
lating their charge's on a splendid opportunity for grasp-
ing the complicated art of “dining out.” It is well that
everyone should comprehend how' to eat peas according to
vice-regal precedent.
Skirts are a miserable length now, and I wish they could
get longer so that one could hoist them up. At present
your frock trails after you, garnering up a goodly harvest
of dust and mud —chiefly the latter lately—while tl c
moral effect your soiled hems have on your male belong-
ings is absolutely pitiful; for men don’t understand these
little, subtle, though dirty touches of fashion. By just
turning up his trousers on a wet day, a certain Personag
set all New South Wales turning theirs up in all weathers
Its a pity Lady Carington doesn’t pin up her gown on
some public occasion !
A favoured being upon whom the plank-like pedesta’a
of Australian beauty haven’t so far descended, in a “ letter
to the paper ” about the draggle-tail length we wear our
walking-gowns, remarks: —“Now, Providence has pro-
vided ladies with feet to enable them to walk, and why
these should be hidden away under a cloud of drapery is a
mystery to me.” Happy ignorance.—isn’t it? But, to
follow up this sham logician, Providence has providid
ladies with knees to enable them to walk, and why these
should be hidden away, &c., &c. This poor man, if he
can’t see our feet, oan go and look at our boots in the
show-cases. Every one is a number nine, and warranted
to stretch.
Before leaving America, Letty Lind and Sylvia Grey
made presents of nearly aW those lovely petticoats which
we remember so well ! Letty, it is said, was going to
leave her slippers behind also, only that no daughter cl
Liberty could be found who could get more than In r
great pedal digit into them. Whilst in America the Gaiety
dancers augmented their income by giving dancing-
lessons to society girls, and teaching large imposit g
matrons to pirouette through the “ butterfly chase ” whi e
the old man shut his eyes. It will please many youtl s
who now either languish behind iron gratings, or are
dodging florists all over the place, to learn that when tl e
frescoed charmers reached London, somebody asked them
how' the antipodean young man had struck them? Upon
which they carelessly replied that “ Melbourne and Sydm y
mashers were very nice and kind, and that, but, dear me !
they couldn’t hold a candle to the English ‘ boys ’ who are
so much better-looking, better-dressed, and better style in
every way.”
I am told that a certain well-known Australian oculist
was first induced to follow up his speciality by “fre-
quently seeing serpents in the air.” What a lot of people
have a similar inducement to become oculists !
The drapers’ window’s and the absence of blue noses on
the Sydney Block reminds me that Spring is coming. It’s
to be a season of flowers—artificial, I mean—and the large
moon-faced person will come out wreathed in forget-me-
nots and the sallow old-young girl with the cheese-plate
figure, w’ho always chooses the most erotic vegetables, will
garland herself in roses just as she used to do. The hat-
show in town is very sustaining. All are drowned in
flow’ers. A “ lacey ” terra-cotta straw w T as trimmed with
bows of terra-cotta and olive-green ribbon and a profusion
of full-blown blush roses. One in brown had a cluster of
pink baby roses across the brim. A bonnet was smothered
in violets. They showed me a new and very unbecoming
shape this summer—“ Tho Mandarin.” It’s like an oyster-
shell on wires ; you fill in around the face with flowers’
but nothing could relieve its atrocity. Nearly all the
other shapes are becoming and are short in the back and
long in the front. I like the ‘‘lacey ” straws, but I shudder
at them too. In our blazing climate it isn’t healthy to go
about with only a layer of gauze between you and sun*
stroke.
On 7th inst. Sydney Y.M.C.A. hall was well filled by a
musical throng, who assembled for the last concert of the
second season of the well-named “ Orpheus ” Club. The
programme was vocal, violinistic, and instrumental. Mr
“ Lucy'” Allpress was at his best in Wagner’s “ Presleid,
with the novelty of an organ accompaniment. Mr. H,
Clinton, who is an officer of the R.M.S. Cuzco, at the last
moment undertook to fill the gap left by “Daddy ” Halle-
well, and scored a great success with his light melodious
tenor ; he was given two recalls in “ The Message,” and
was the success of the evening. What a delightful thing
it must be to be six weeks at sea in the Cuzco and have
Mr. Clinton to sing to you—and Captain Nixon to talk to
you—every evening!
Lodge Sydney Tarbolton held their annual ball at
West’s Rooms on the 7th inst., when, despite the cold, wet
evening, over 100 couples entered the lists. Most of the
dresses were very gorgeous indeed, and catering, music,
and floor were, I believe, most satisfactory.
I am requested to state that a plain-and-fanoy-dress
breaking-up party at King’s Norton School, St. Leonards,
on Ist inst., was highly successful.
It is said that the Irish delegate whose correspondence
has been a source of harrowing care to the N.S.W. Post
office, was secretly, though surely, united in the bonds cf
holy matrimony to the historical young lady, some weeks
ago at an inland N.S.W. township. Here endeth the first
lesson. It’s a sad thing, though, to reflect that his letteis
will be opened more frequently than ever.
A scratch company of amateurs will shortly give a
dramatic performance in the ball-room at Etham, Darlii g
Point, when “Betsy Baker” and another comedy are to
fill the bill.
The second Garrison dance, at Victoria Barracks, even-
tuated in a downpour of rain which washed away the en
trance marquee and came down with deafening effect c n
the zinc roof of the ball-room. Possibly it was because
the night was so inclement that most of the smart gowi s
remained amongst the camphor. Miss Walenn wore ash-
ooloured merveilleux. There was a preponderance of red.
Everybody wore a small wreath to correspond with some
portion of their gown, and one lady wore her hair in the
unbecoming “ Cadogan ” plait.
A recent English journal contains the following dramatic
sketch —by Lady Colin Campbell—of Mrs. Gordon-Baillie-
Frost, as she is at present, which all the curled and
scented people in the kawlinies, who took her to their
yearning bosoms on the strength of her eyebrows and her
arguments, would do well to bind and wear as a chest-prc-
tector:—“ The door, like all the cell-doors, has been
thrown open, and inside, facing us, tall, erect, her head
thrown back, stands a most beautiful woman. The strong
light from the window falls on a mass of dark golden hair,
which seems to rebel openly against the white prison-cap.
The face, with its bright, dark eyes, is somewhat in shadow ;
and as she stands there in the white cell she looks lil e
some white falcon that has been trapped and caged for a
time only, and who, as soon as she regains her liberty, wi 1
know how to use her strong pinions, as w ell as her beak
and talons, just as well as ever she did.” But what thri -
ling periods over a woman who is “doing” five years!
All the old glamour hasn’t deserted her, evidently.
This is how the S.M. Herald’s exalted London serile
panders to the fierce Potts Point predilection for getting
behind the royal curtain ;
“The Princess Louise went down to Windsor to receive
the Queen’s formal consent to her marriage, and after this
had been graciously granted, she threw her arms round
her royal grandmother’s neck and said, ‘ Oh, I’m so glad
you’ve* let me marry Fife, we’ve loved one another for ev r
aj long ; and, besides, I didn’t want to be made to mai y
one of those German princes.’ ”
How nice ! And how true it all sounds, doesn't it ?
The sports in connection with the Speedwell Bicyt e
Club and the Sydney Harriers on the 10th inst. attracted
a good throng in their “best” frocks, though, as t! e
season is just changing, most of them looked as if they'd
seen active service at the elbows and shoulder-blades. T e
most pleasing gown w r as of black surah and black-and
white checked silk, worn over a grey “lacey” straw' h, t
ornate with large bow's of grey ribbon and a profusion i f
violets. Another was of grey cashmere and black moin
I am rather tired of moire—black picture-hat smotherc d
in black feathers and half-a-dozen small grey birds. Fcr
the rest, the woman who didn't wear green, wore black,
and when she hadn’t them separately she combined them
and was happy. Everything connected with the sport s
went off like a happy dream a large brass band whooped
sweetest melodies on the lawn, while a bold, bad bool -
maker, who offered long odds on the “little ’un in bloo, *
gave an air of mild excitement to the otherwise irre-
proachable proceedings.
What a scathing commentary on the prevalence of coik
legs, corsets, false calves, whiskers and teeth, and the rest
of the vanities used in the building of the fascinating
masculine of the day, is found in the following significant
conclusion of a Sydney orange-blossom advt; —
“ Age and position not so much an objecfas one who is
genuine, apply, R. C. M., Herald.”
Only that “ one who is genuine !” He may be bald, tooth-
less, and a Son of the Soil, but he must be real! She doc s
not want to have to assist in taking him to pieces like a
puzzle. Where is the true inwardness of a bridegroom
whose beard comes right off at the first belligerent touch,
or whose cork toes give no return to tender connubial
pressure ? She wants a sound svvain or none at all. She
is a widow, by the way, and probably has painful remem-
brances of the dear departed’s glass eye.
The wedding of Miss Amy Cox and Mr. Frank Farnell,
M.L.A., eventuated at St Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, on
12th inst., the dejeuner being held at Need’s room. Many
satisfactory toilettes were observable. Mrs. Cox wore a
handsome gown of black armure Roy ale and jet passe-
menterie, black jet beaded bonnet with crown of white
roses. Miss Burdett Smith, brown silk and velvet, cream
bonnet w ith w’hite aigrette. A nice gown of grey cash-
mere, with revers of moire en suite, grey picture hat laden
with grey feathers; and nearly all the gowning was worthy
of the name. The six bridesmaids were in white and
heliotrope and white and primrose respectively, with
corresponding hats, and the bride in white armure Royale
looked nice enough to eat. The “ talking brigade ” were
largely represented, of course Dan O’Connor, Cupid
Smith and Bruce Smith, proposing most of the toasts while
G. H. Reid (less, for a wonder, his eye-glass) responded
most sentimentally for our sex. How cruel of him to con-
tinue a bachelor!
“ Pepita,” at Sydney Royal, is a gorgeous aggregate of
splendour centred round a plot that isn't there. But the
tights are so “slick” and the dresses so pretty, and the
dancing is so good, and the divided skirts are so general,
and the bald-heads are so regular that “ Pepita” is a suc-
cess. Nellie Stewart has a slave’s time in it. She
changes her get-up phenomenally often, but then her
disguises are all compensatingly pretty—perhaps the
prettiest being the saucy vivandiere dress in the second
act. As of yore, vegetables are divided betwixt Nellie
and Fanny Liddiard whose spooning with Howard
Vernon should bo seen and copied by all those about to
marry. “ Pepita ” music is very light and “comprehen-
sible,” and the book is just a little Honi soil, &c.
Apropos of festivities. Somebody trenchantly remarks
that people cannot be too careful about how they word
their invitations. The following style should especially be
guarded against:—“Dear Blank.—Will you and your
brother come to dinner to-morrow evening if you have
nothing on ?”
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
“Up-a-Daisy!"
[BY THOMAS BRACKEN.]
“ Up-a-daisy !” said his mother
When the babe was three months old;
“ Up-a-daisy !” and she’d lift him
From the rug whereon he rolled.
Soon the boy began to prattle,
And his lips would strive to say
“ Up-a-daisy !” but he couldn’t
Master more than “ Up-a-day !”
“Up-a-daisy !” quaint expression
Coined in some old nurse’s brain,
As she tossed some merry baby
Up and down and up again;
But our boy, unversed in diction,
Takes it in another way—
Help, assistance, comfort, succour,
Seeks he in his “ Up-a-day !”
Months flew by—the boy grew stronger ;
Childhood’s little griefs and cares
Marr’d some merry, merry moments;
Stupid stools and naughty chairs
Would persist in falling o’er him ;
And, as on the ground he lay,
He would kick and scream and scramble—
“Mamma, mamma, Up-a-Day!”
Onward in the march of progress,
Busy hands and toddling feet,
Cosy cradle superseded
By the cot so snug and neat;
Mischief-making little meddler,
Wearied out at twilight gray,
Clinging to the skirts of mamma :
“Me so tired,” then “Up-a-Day !”
Oh, the golden dreams of childhood !
Oh, the visions babies see !
After they have lisped “ Our Faader,”
■ Nodding upon mother’s knee;
Cares and troubles all forgotten
Till the morn’s first diamond ray
Opes the rosebuds and the red lips,
And the eyelids—“ Up-a-day ! ”
Once again the little despot
Rules the house with iron will,
Jumps and crows and screams and scrambles—
Not a single moment still ;
Merry, rippling, silver laughter,
Sunshine followed soon by spray,
Troubles crowd again upon him
“ Mamma, Mamma, Up-a-day ! ”
Now he falls across the fender,
Now he tumbles on the stairs,"
Screams and sobs and runs to mother
With his troubles and his cares.
“ Oh, you naughty boy, what ails you ?
Sonny, do be quiet, pray !
Here now, dere now, what’s the matter ?”
“ Mamma, mamma, up-a-day !”
“ Papa, turn and play me sojers,
Me will shoot oo with my dun. ”
Fierce the onslaught, papa’s vanquished,
Baby has the victory won.
Ah ! the fate of war is cruel :
Baby’s gun breaks in the fray—
“ Oh ! my dun, my dun is broken ;
Mamma, mamma, up-a-day ?”
Babyhood is manhood’s mirror :
Joys and sorrows, smiles and tears
Find their birth-place in the cradle,
Growing stronger with the years;
“Mother !” is our cry in spring-time ;
But, when Winter holds his sway,
From the depths we raise our voices—
“ Father, Father, Up-a-day !”
Ah ! the time will come, my darling,
When the hearts that shield thee now
Shall be silent, and Time’s furrows
Will leave traces on thy brow ;
When the shadows fall upon thee
Turn thine eyes from Earth away,
Lift thy voice and cry with fervour —
“Father, Father, Up-a-day !”
—New Zealand Exchange.
At a N.S. Wales country post-office deli-
very-window. Blackfellow (recently from mission-
station) ; “Me lub God ; gimme thikpen, mister.”
Postmaster : “Oh ! go to H !”
At Bondi Aquarium great preparations
have been made for the coming summer season.
A new switchback railway is in course of con-
struction, the old one having been worn out by the
avoirdupois that have travelled over it.
Kalakaua will not go to Paris. The
Parisian elephant, the Exposition, and the delights
of the gay metropolis are not for the dusky
monarch of the tropical islands. His reason for
not taking his contemplated trip is the same as
the one that keeps away many others. His
majesty is ‘ ‘ busted.” An appetite for the splendors
of royalty and the moderate income of the Hawaiian
throne has brought Kalakaua to the point where
there is no borrowing to be done, and the treasury
of Hawaii is as tightly shut as the savings banks
against the wants of the Hawaiian ruler. The
“ busted ” monarch can console himself for missing
the delights of Paris, by the reflection that most
of the other monarchs are barred out likewise.
Emperor William of Germany is still solvent
financially, at least far enough to borrow the fare
to Paris, but national feeling forbids him to go.
The Czar cannot make the trip because his steel-
clad railway-carriage cannot cross the frontier,
and his bomb-proof suit does not look well in a
crowd anyway. Humbert of Italy has been
making faces at France for the past year and
would not dare to step over the line. Francis
Joseph of Austria has to keep a close watch of his
northern frontier to see that it does not get away,
Ferdinand of Bulgaria does not dare to leave his
throne, lest he might find a Russian bayonet stick-
ing up through it when he got back, the Sultan
has to stay at home to look after his wife, and the
King of Spain is too young to travel. On the
whole his Hawaiian majesty will be in good, royal
company in staying at home. And he will save a
pot of money to somebody by not going to Paris.
—S.F. Newsletter
I know a young maiden—Pauline—
Her complexion is fine, air serene;
When asked how it was,
She said, without pause,
“I take Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.”
CORRESPONDENCE
“Rortyßob,” &c. : We feel compelled to burn
y our verses. Your nom de plume is not inappropriate
“ J.D.” (Charters Towers'): Thanks “H.0.Z.”: Sorry
we can’t avail ourselves of your invitation “ H.0.G.”:
At present rather tired of literary baby-rattles ... “P.Q.”;
Thanks. Deluged with matter on the “Woman” sub-
ject “EggFlipp ” : Yes, thereisinN.S.W. a “revenue”
duty on biscuits, under whose fostering care the industry
has prospered. Nevertheless, the manufacturer in ques-
tion is, we believe, a Freetrader. The protected butter
and bacon growers of Southern N.S. Wales, the protected
kerosene manufacturer, the protected lawyers, voted the
Freetrade ticket—why not the protected dough-moulder?
Free their industries, however, and they’ll alter their
fiscal tune “ The Blackfellows’ Petition”: Glad to hear
from you, but not even enough “ E. Kelly” : Thanks.
Knew the man, but did not know his whereabouts
“ J.S.D.” (Clarence River): Why not give the facts full
publicity in the local paper, and then mark it for the
Sydney dailies? The country alderman, as a rule, is a
bore, while the city one is a hog “Back-Blocker”:
Your verse on the petrifaction would turn a gas-bag into
stone “0.M.” (Adelaide); Many thanks. Always glad
to hear from you “ E.S.” (Eden): Thistles seem plenti-
ful in your district. How’s the donkey-crop? “A.
Morgan”; Thanks, may use “H.C.C.”; Will consider.
“John Hammond”: Purchase “ Why 1 am a Repub-
lican,” price 3d., for full information as to the relative
cost of monarchy and republicanism... “H. W.F.” (Melb.):
We have heard of money-changers being driven from the
Temple, but this is the first instance which has come
under our qptioe of the clergy personally throwing out
inebriates “ Nigger ”: We do not know of any book on
the subject which we could recommend. Read B. W.
Richardson’s “Induced Diseases of Modem Civilisation,”
which will give you some splendid all-round lessons
“E.W.H.” ; “Sappho” wants you to suggest an equiva-
lent for the word. “Frock,” she justly maintains, is
good English to-day in the sense she has used it “ Vic-
toria”: Why not go to a decent doctor? “N.N.’>
(Wattle Plat) : Always glad to hear from you “ A.J.” ;
(1) Do you really expect us to print and pay for paltry
libels on your personal enemies? (2) The Bulletin plays a
lone hand. It has no enemies, it has no friends
“Boundary Rider’s Romance”: Will consider “A.
Stevenson ” : Vide advertisements in Bulletin on the sub-
ject “E.W.P.”: Can only be inserted at regular ad-
vertising rates, the lowest nett figures for which will be
supplied by our nicely-scented and beautifully-barbered
advertising clerk “ Aleck ” : No libel in Gympie, but a
big libel in Sydney “C.M.” (Woonoona) : Rather too
sudden .. “J.G.T.”: Thanks “ J.L.” : Thanks
“ Stewart Doig ” ; Consult some practical man.
“ David Kelloch ” : Better see some mining en-
gineer or expert ... “E. Diggers ” : The “Adam
Bede ” Consultation is the only one Tub Bulletin haS
recommended. Can’t tell you how to compel your
school-teachers to settle down, unless you marry them.
.... “B. Giles ” ; The Consultation is at present, of course,
only working up a connection; as its business in-
creases, so pro rata will its donations. The per-
centages given, so far, to charitable institutions are—
Sydney Hospital, £7 14s. ; St. Vincent’s, £1; Jockey
Fund, £l4 ss. Bd. ; Sydney Hospital, £45; St. Vincent’s,
£5. Total, £72 19s. 3d.
Mr. ‘ ‘ Jack ! ' Want’s masterful common-
sense and heavy slang-whang contributed much to
the success of the defence of Dignam and Johnson,
the alleged burglars, charged with having shot
Constable Slater at Glenmore Road, Sydney.
The Judge seemed terribly indignant at the sug-
gestion that Slater shot himself ; but then Judge
Foster is not a man of the sort whom one would
select to try a case necessarily involving the
faintest scintilla of psychological speculation.
His Honor’s remark, that the monstrous theory of
self-shooting by the constable could only be upheld
by the supposition that Slater was a lunatic, is a
very convenient method of disposing of any theory
under heaven. The Judge might as well say,
when next a man is tried for kicking his wife to
death ; “Gentlemen, this poor man promised at
the altar to love and cherish and obey the woman
he is charged with having killed. That being the
case, it is absurd that we should be asked to
believe he kicked her to death.” Or, when a
burglar comes up for trial; “ Mr. Jones, now be-
hind the spikes, has, I am told, a silver watch of
his own. That being the case, it is mere lunacy
on the part of the prosecution to assert that
it was he who stole Briggs’ silver watch.”
Slater’s own admissions in the witness-box
by no means tended to controvert the self-
shooting theory. The doctors were by no
means agreed that it was impossible the wounds
could have been self-inflicted, but even if they had
been agreed, it would not have mattered much;
for, judging by what we have lately seen, medical
evidence is worth about three-halfpence a ream.
It is quite plain that Slater was not one of those
calm, level-headed, steady-going, unimaginative
men out of whom the ideal policeman, as
distinguished from the detective, is made. He
is a morbid man, a seer of visions, and a
dreamer of dreams. He dreams three times in
succession, just before the shooting, that he is to
be the victim of a violent assault, and, as he
remembers the dream, very likely his daily life is
influenced by his nocturnal interviews with the
fairies and goblins of Blanketland. He is a man
possessed of abnormal ideas of humour. He wears
a false beard “by way of a joke.” Also, “ by way
of a joke,” he tells people he has the idea that
he will meet his end by poison. He has carried a
revolver ever since he was a boy, because, it is to
be presumed, he is afraid of something or other.
Put all these things together on paper and submit
them to any jury of mad-doctors and they would
probably tell you that Mr. Slater’s statements, no
matter in what good faith he might make them,
would have to be received with a great deal of
caution. However, the jury having decided that
Slater did not shoot himself, but was shot by
others in the execution of his duty, no more
remains to be said—except that it is to be hoped
the Colonial Secretary will induce this excellent
officer to accept a handsome gratuity and get his
wounds healed.


“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglia Jtz Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND °
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Daace Programmes, Invitation Cards, See., See.,
SUITABLE FOR
Publio & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates. J3T” A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Street!
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Pepita.”
Her Majesty’s “Confusion.”
Opera House ... “Martha.”
Criterion “ She Stoops to Conquer.”
Waxworks “ Jo-Jo.”
Cyclorama “Battle of Gettysburg.”
Metropolitan Skating Risk Ultimo.
Elite Skating Rink Redfern.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Silver King.”
Princess’ “ Jack in the Box.”
Opera House “ Fun on the Bristol.”
Alexandra “ Hamlet."
St. George's Hall London Pavilion Co.
Victoria HaLl Professor Jensen.
Cyclorama “ Waterloo.”
Athenasum Hall Snazelle.
The vagaries of that aristocratic young
person, “Martha,” at Sydney Opera House, have
contributed towards the expansion of Manager Solo-
mon’s smile into a continuous chuckle, which now
extends from the Criterion to the corner of York-
street. The somewhat erratic manners and cus-
toms of our ancestors in the days of Queen Anne
are rendered specially attractive to the male
creature in the contemplation of the small quan-
tity of baggage then required to keep girls neat
and leave them beautiful, when worked out to
three places of decimals and carried on the end of
a stick to Richmond fair. As princess or peasant,
Miss Tree always fits her dresses, but has no
excuse for altering metre to fit music, even if all
her lovely companions “have faded and—er
—gone.” Nature has gifted Signor Buzzi
with an English pronunciation for which he
desires to be grateful as a means of creating
applause in spoken parts; few Englishmen who
laugh at him could learn as much of the signor’s
musical tongue in a whole decade of torture.
John Eorde has, for the nonce, got into uncon-
genial society, and his credit is but poorly sus-
tained in the struggle to present an English
nobleman of a different type to those with whom
familiarity has bred contempt, either in the annals
of police-courts or as guests at Government
Houses, A great moral lesson hangs on to the
skirts of “ Martha,” and Flora G. will continue to
illustrate it, to the music of many composers in
this, and, may be, in other spheres.
*% * &
That gorgeous pageant, “Pepita,” has
struck oil at the Royal. The scene is laid in the
Canary Islands, where the climate is so salubrious
that even the hen-canaries warble, and rotund
donkeys are indigenous. Bedrillo’s opening song
with its click-clack chorus, the “All you will
know ” of Miss Fanny Liddiard, the Pataques-
Bombardos duet of Messrs. Elton and Marnoek,
and that crowning triumph of Miss Nellie Stewart,
the Matador’s song, continue to receive big encores
nightly. By the way, the music of the latter song
is strongly reminiscent of the Toreador . song in
“Carmen,” but whether Lecocq is indebted to
Bizet, Bizet to Lecocq, or both inspired from one
common source, we know not. The chief feature of
the opera is the opportunity given to Mr. Leumane
to display his powers as a low comedian. In
every part, from “Faust ” down to the “ Yeomen
of the Guard,” as a lover, he was unhappy, three-
cornered, and jerky ; but, as Inigo, his association
with that admirable artist, Mr. Howard Vernon,
in Pedrillo, is fraught with most pleasurable
results. The Bombardos of Mr. Marnoek is
irrigated by an irritating tremolo, that infests his
talking as well as his singing voice, and is but
little more distressing when he wobbles up to a
high note than when he squirms down to a low
one. It bobs up in every act, and gurgles round
with a persistence worthy of a better caws all the
time. The Pataques of Mr. Elton is a superior
article ; his voice, gestures, and bye-play are not
only mirth-provoking, but in perfect keeping from
the drawing up of the curtain to the letting down
thereof. By the way, why do Pataques and Co.
persist in calling Miss Liddiard “In-knees,” in
hopeless contradiction of the revealed and shapely
truth ? The orchestra throughout, led by M. Leon
Caron, has the good taste to play second fiddle to
the singers. In Paris, we are told, it was usual to
kill a real bull every evening in the last act of
“ Pepita,” but the Royal bull is a perfect libel on
the bovine race, and, if not labelled “ Bos,” would
be universally taken for a discarded flock mattress
badly damaged by several removals and a couple
of conflagrations.
*# * *
At Her Majesty’s, “ Confusion ” is now in
the fourth week of representation and the hey-day
of popularity. Beyond a slight huskiness in the
voice of the baby, and a disinclination for violent
exercise on the part of the pug-dog, none of the
company show any signs of wear and tear. As
there is only one scene, the shifters are in the
seventh heaven of delight, and only the fat men
whose habit it is to tramp out heavily between
acts and come back redolent of cloves, complain of
the brief cessations from “ the trouble ” that per-
vades the entertainment. “Julius Caesar” is in
active preparation, and will make his bow on
Saturday next.
** * ¥
At the Criterion, “Joseph’s Sweetheart,”
borne chiefly on the rtout shoulders of Mr. Brough
-an undoubted illustration of the fact that it is
almost impossible to place a good man in a false
position—continued to elope nightly with the
affections of the Sydney public until last Thursday
evening. It was then replaced by that never-
fading creation, Oliver Goldsmith’s “ She Stoops
to Conquer. ” This comedy, which has not been
produced in Sydney since Marie De Grey’s com-
pany played it at the Opera House, deserves from
The Bulletin a lengthy notice; this we cannot
accord it till next week.
** * *
At Harris-street, Ultimo, the Metropolitan
Skating Rink proprietary continue to annex the
shekels, for—here doth the little busy dude im-
prove each shining minute, and should he fall
upon his head —Whuroo ! —there’s nothing in it.
* * *- *
The days are getting warmer, still the
nights are far from hot, and so the whirling skaters
are ever on the spot. You’ll find them up at
Skinner’s, the Burton-street Elite, ever circling,
never ceasing to ply their flying feet; but, when
the nights get sultry, then —farewell to skating
rinks, no longer greasing rollers, they’ll lubricate
with drinks.
The Battle of Gettysburg still whoops
along. John Burns’ white beaver has been re-
blocked, and Hancock’s spurs reburnished, so the
show booms like a bittern.
** * *
In Sydney the Sunday concert has become
a firmly-founded institution. Those given at the
seaside resorts in the afternoon are always well
patronised, while to very many citizens, a visit to
one of the evening entertainments has become an
essential. The Criterion concerts in particular
put to the blush many of those that introduce to
public notice wandering minstrels with unpro-
nounceable names, and voices of doubtful quality.
The talent engaged is, as a rule, the best that
Sydney can offer.
** * *
On Monday evening last the monthly re-
union of the Government Printing Dramatic and
Minstrel Society—for the benefit of their sick—
was held at the School of Arts, Sydney, when
hundreds were unable to obtain admission. The
entertainment was, therefore, a great financial
boom, and, in addition, was also artistically suc-
cessful.
* * % *•
The mesmerist and necromancer, Ken-
nedy, will, wand in hand, proceed to mystify
Sydney audiences at the School of Arts from the
evening of Saturday, the 17th, until the manage-
ment of the building give him notice to quit, on
the grounds that the cyclones of cacohination which
nightly tear up the audiences by the roots, have
a tendency to shake the foundations of the hall.
Mr. Joe Brown will look after the mesmerist’s in-
terests in front.
*m * *
The Sydney University Musical Society
will give their first concert, under the leadership
of Herr Hugo Alpen, in the great hall of the
University, on the evening of Wednesday, the
21st August, when selections from Mendelssohn,
Pinsuti, Mackenzie, Cowen, and other composers,
will be given.
The changes promised for Saturday are
many and varied in character, which is a splendid
bit of prose writing stolen from the glowing pages
of the Argus, Miss Jennie Lee will produce
“Jack in the Box” at the Princess’. This is
advertised as a new drama (humph !), and a deal
of the action is believed to take place on its head.
“Hamlet,” a good old-fashioned ghost story of
considerable literary merit, starts the long-delayed
legitimate season at the Alexandra. Some of the
scenery for this revival has been painted by John
Hennings, and vice-Govemor Robinson will fix
his cold, vice-regal stare upon the festive scene.
Widow O’Brien, five years absent from Mel-
bourne, tries “ Fun on the Bristol ” at the Opera
House, and Snazelle opens his really original
entertainment at the Athenaeum, The vice-
regal person is also announced to glare at
Snazelle, as well as at “Hamlet,” but the
impossibility of bringing off this double
event is so apparent to the meanest under-
standing, that Wobinson will probably extri-
cate himself from his dilemma by being taken bad
at the last minute. Anew crowd of music-hall
artists, arrived per Cuzco, appear at St, George’s
Hall under the banner of F. E. Hiscocks, and a
certain Mr. Robert Jensen, alleged to be a pro-
fessor of Cabalistic Wonders, or something of that
description, threatens to shake his gory locks at
the saucy little Victoria Hall. Meantime the
Royal Museum of Indian atrocities and freaks of
N ature has received the addition of a gentleman
named Muggerdammie, or something similar.
Muggerdammie’s head measures 16 yards in cir-
cumference when he keeps sober, and when he has
“ahead on him” it bulges right out of the
Museum. The Lynch Family pop up at odd
places, and the Cyclorama gets there just the
same.
** * *
On Monday night last Sir Dismal Jimmy
Lorimer, K.C.M.G., entertained Her Majesty’s
forces in Victoria with “Silver King,” the knight
of the rueful countenance having bought one per-
formance of the Royal show for £250. Jimmy’s-
idea was to have a grand naval and military
demonstration of loyalty to the Throne and he
got it. But if he had plied the army and navy
with £250 worth of beer they would have felt more
loyal and more grateful to Jimmy, who was
generally reckoned up as a “silly old fellow” by
the scrag end of the army in the pit and gallery
** * *
The Victorian Orchestra, being a continua-
tion of Cowen and culshaw, made a spiritual com-
mencement last week with two concerts at
Melbourne Town Hall. The imported conductor,
Mr. Hamilton Clarke, beats the air with consider-
able fury, and the forces under his control
(venerable musical expression) appear to be doing
their best in a classical way. When the general
public have educated themselves up to long works
in E flat, rich in everything save a melody
that can be laid hold of whistled in the
street then the Victorian Orchestra will
fill a want. The outside public showed no
disposition to educate themselves much, last
week, but subscribers came up freely to see their
own little show, and will probably continue to do
so until the gloss wears off Hamilton Clarke, and
the strain of looking delighted at the end of
enormous largo movements begins to tell on ’em.
Then the Victorian orchestra will slowly crumble
away like an ancient abbey, and the fragments
will be gathered together and solaced with a
benefit. All truly great musical schemes terminate
in a benefit.
* * *
The Melbourne Board of Health has all its
work cut out with plans of theatres. How many,
think you ? Two plans ready. Two more being
furbished up, and a third, that is to say the fifth,
hatching in a busy brain. First, there is the
Bijou, They hope to put it through with amend-
ments, knocking off the top gallery, &c. In fact,
there seems to have been a private pow-wow
beforehand, like the celebrated settlement of the
Berlin Treaty. Second comes Billy Pitt’s mag-
nificent theatre, corner of Bourke and Russell
streets. This is as good as done. Pitt swears
he will beat the Princess, of which he was
architect. Third is a new theatre designed by
Nahum Barnet, architect of the Alexandra. This
new place is in Collins-street east back to Flinders-
lane. Fourth is Harry Rickards’ new theatre,
which, Harry says, will be a snug little crib in
Bourke-street, like the Madison-square Theatre of
New York, or the Vaudeville or Court theatres in
London. Fifth —start, eyes ! —is the projected
Collingwood theatre, on the old foundations in
Smith street. What sets them all buzzing is
Dampier booming the Alexandra, which was such
a dreadful frost at first, and ruined Joubert.
Dampier rakes the dollars in hand over fist. Big-
money has been going everywhere else of late.
Old Coppin shakes His head; but they go in for
Melbourne’s nine theatres.
# stf
We feel sure that the show business in
South Africa is booming, for has not Luscombe
Searcllc sent us a handsome volume of blank verse,
entitled “The Dawn of Death,” published by
Trubner and Co. on his behalf? No one in Sydney
ever thought Searelle crank enough to compile a
whole volume of solemn poetry. The little fellow
was by no means an Adonis, but he so bubbled
over with sugared small-talk that, like John
Wilkes, the handsomest had but a small start of
him, even with the most lovely of the fair sex.
This faculty has apparently been developed by
practice until it has fairly run away with him, and
the volume before us is the result. The mixed
metaphor of its title is unfortunate, for that
waning of life’s flame which precedes extinction
might fitly be described as “the gloaming,” but
under no circumstances, “the dawn ”of death. In
the sixty lines of dedicatory verse with which the
volume is prefaced Luscombe fairly gives himself
away by declaring (in language flat as any pan-
cake) —
The years of my life had flown
Ere ever I counted the cost,
And my soul awoke with a weary moan,
And cried aloud “ I am lone ! 1 am lone !”
For the half of myself is lost.
When a soft white hand crept into mine,
An arm stole round me with love divine,
And lo ! it was thou, my sweet!
Then our poet, “folding their souls in one,” con-
cludes by seeing
In our baby’s eyes
Our twin souls blent in the one we prize,
Blent by the father of paradise.
Luscombe, we find, is eternally blending “twin
souls ” into spiritual cocktails and transcendental
shandy-gaff. Right through the volume, 1500
lines of the blankest verse, he hunts his unfor-
tunate soul down into “ the bowels of earth,”
through “the lowest hell of hells,” where,
in a tenth-rate Dantesque vein, he sees black
abysses, fiery lakes, seas of blood, and per-
turbed spirits; until, curiously enough, at a
still lower depth heaven is revealed to him, and
there, seemingly, they were musically inclined, for
he distinctly heard the chorus. Then the poet
forsakes his materialism, and becomes a Pan-
theist seeing “ the great soul of souls in all
things.” In a prefixed note he declares his inten-
tion of publishing “a sequel” if Press and Public
be favourable. If The Bulletin’s opinion may
be taken we should advise him, in his own words,
“no longer to woo that squinting, knock-kneed
harlot popularity,” by the publication of thread-
bare ideas expressed in imagery that has been
common poetic property for centuries.
Sing hilly ho! each Melbourne show
Is what it was a week ago :
A little flat and rather stale,
Perchance an old familiar tale
Which, having been in days of yore,
Much better told, begins to bore.
The Royal runs the “ Silver King,”
But Bucklaw isn’t quite the thing ;
Besides, when erst it filled the bill
We hadn’t heard of Broken Hill,
Whose real silver kings we find
Are not of Wilfred Denver’s kind—
Pale, preachy men with long white locks.
A silver king who “ does ” the Block’s
Not seen in boots like Wilfrid D.’s,
Nor does he suffer agonies
Of weak remorse for sins unsinned,
He gets engaged to Letty Lind,
At present crowds roll up to see
If ’tis the joy it used to be
When Tith., and Day, and Redwood quai.ui
Played leading parts. Alas ! it ain’t,
Though Royce, the well-beloved, makes
A genuine success as Jaikes.
“ The Grasshopper,” sans wit or plot,
Is written down with tommy-rot,
And now the haunt of the Princess
Wears quite an air of emptiness.
Likewise “ East Lynne,” that drama drear,
Is drying up the falling tear ;
For five full weeks the Silbon show
Has flourished—now it has to go ;
St. George’s Hall and rorty Vic.
Are both of them a trifle sick,
And managers in general pray
For better luck on Saturday.
At Poverty Point.
Henrik Ibsen, author of “A Doll’s House,” a play we
may hope to see on the arrival of Miss Janet Achurch,
has been styled by Robert Buchanan as ‘ ‘ Zola with a wooden
leg, stumping the north in the interests of quasi-scientifio
realism.” Ibsen’s friends retort that Buchanan is a
Carlyle with a wooden head.
It is nearly five years since “She Stoops to Conquer’
was last played in Sydney. Marie de Grey was Kate
Hardcastle, and among those who assisted were the late
Mrs. Chippendale, Mark Kinghorne, Matthew Brodie, and
Morton Selton. None of Marie’s company stayed in Aus-
tralia, except Mr. A. T. Hilton, now with Brough and
Boucicault.
Somebody wants his pound of flesh out of the Marble
Man. Blood from a stone.
Biles writes us from Melbourne, and we give him as
escape-pipe. Thus saith Biles:—“The new Loudon
actors and actresses at the Royal are not getting on at all
happily. They thought they would be placed in the best
Melbourne theatre, and they find themselves in the worst.
In sooth, the Koval is a barn. Not only the Princess’, but
the Alexandra and Opera House are infinitely superior.
The only decent parts of the house are the dress-circle
and stalls. The upper-circle is inferior to the Alexandra
sixpenny place, and the gallery is a den. The spitting up
there goes on like a continuous rain all the evening on the
gallery-floor. Spat—spat—this is the poor' Shilling}te’s
accompaniment to enjoyment of the play. The rampaging
gallery ‘ bossed ’ the house on the first night of ‘ Silver
King.’ They rampage because the bad construction of
the house does not allow them see. Three quarters of the
full gallery have to stand up all the time, which makes
them rusty. The stage management at the Royal is bad.
Jine yer flats! See all the newspaper reports of the
botches on the first night of the ‘ Silver King.’ Melbourne
is accustomed to the stage-managing of men like Wallace
and Vincent, and won’t stand ramshackle, even with a big
London name. The acting all round is getting sloppy.
The managerial affections seem to be concentrated on the
Princess’, where everything is absolute perfection.
The MSS. of the first act of “ The Girl Queen,” by John
Garraway, the Australian dramatist, from Hoxton. is in
the hands of the printer of the Imperial Review (Melb.),
and it will appear in the next number of that publication.
The play, as we have mentioned, deals with Queen Vic-
toria. The opening scene shows the Princess Victoria in
bed (!) at Kensington Palace, while King William IV. is
dying, and, of course, she cannot sleep, and soliloquises.
The second scene is laid at the apartments of Greville, the
Diarist, where he is introduced, with Viscount Melbourne,
the Duke of Wellington, and the Archbishop of Canter-
bury, who describes, in gloomy, blank verse, how Princess
Victoria received the news of King Billy’s death. The
next scene is between Queen Victoria and her mother,
Duchess of Kent.
TheS.M. Herald styles Derrick’s comedy, “Confusion,”
“ funny and harmless.” This recalls Barley’s “ wholesome
fun ” phrase—applied to the alleged humour of the now
long-defunct Stdney Punch.
For one management to hold two theatres in a city
never answers. Like the man who tried to serve Mammon
and the other thing, they hold to the one and neglect the
other. Bunn. tried it, with Drury Lane and Covent
Garden, in London. Webster tried it, with the Hay-
market and Adelphi; Chatterton with Drury Lane, Prin-
cess, and Adelphi. H. J. Byron broke his financial back
by trying to manage two Liverpool theatres.
A London paper says re the puffing proclivities of ac-
tresses :—“Mrs. Langtry smokes continually on a lounge ;
Mrs. Brown-Potter smokes between the courses of a din-
ner, and her dressing-rooms are redolent of tobacco :
Rosina Vokes smokes cigars ; Helen Barry likes cigarettes
almost as much as she does brown-fried potatoes ; Lydia
Thompson indulges in a tiny cigarette now and then ;
Nelly Farren rarely smokes, as she is afraid of her voice ;
Rose Coghlan tackles a cigarette as easy as her cues, and
blows off the smoke in fancifully shaped rings ; Sophy
Eyre handles a cigarette as if it were a fan ; Sylvia Grey
always lights one when she goes out riding and puffs at it
secretly ; Ella Wesner smokes cigarettes of her own
making and refuses all others ; Emily Soldene smokes a
meershaum pipe.
The Tussaud Waxworks have been syndicated for
£173,000. 400,000 people passed the turnstile last year.
Iconoclast Symes offers Isaac Selby, the “converted”
F.reethought lecturer, “the Hall of Science some week-
night, free of charge, on condition that he will relate the
details of one or both of_his conversions, namely from
Christianity and back to Christianity again, submitting to
questions from the audience for, say, one hour after his
narrative. What a time he would have !
On Saturday, August 4th, Miss von Finkelstein dined at
Government House, Brisbane. The other guests were Sir
William Macgregor and General Keogh.
Mrs. Alice Shaw, the American whistler, is billed now
in London as “ The Great American Labial Artist.”
Living skeleton (only one in America, at dime-museum):
“ These folks make me tired.” Sympathetic visitor: “In
what way ? ” “ Here lam earning five hundred dollars a
week as the greatest living skeleton, yet, hour after hour,
day in an’ day out, one old woman after another stops an'
chins and chins at me about the things I ought to eat- to
get fat.”—Ex.
Dramatic Author: “ Want a new play by any chance ?”
Manager (wearily): “Well —anything new in"it?” Dra-
matic Author (mysteriously); “Yes, a goat.” Manager
(doubtfully): “A goat—wouldn’t draw much—would it?
What does it- do?” Dramatic Author (confidentially);
“ Eats the wire dress-improver, containing the lost will,
off the heroine in the last- act!” Manager (excitedly);
“ Send me the manuscript at once. What’ll you take* to
drink ?”
Miss Janet Achuroh, now under engagement to play
Nora in “ A Doll's House ” for the triumvirate, is said to
have recently married Charles Oharrington, who is play-
ing Dr. Rank, a spinally-affected doctor in the same play.
“ Fred.” Maccabe is back in Melbourne after a success
in Gippsland. He goes to N.Z,
The trail of the serpent is over them all :
"DARITONE Singer would like Engagement, can play
’ small parts, and is a good dresser. .XL., Herald.
He only plays small parts—but then the glittering
albescence of his shirt-front and the poetic droop of his
ten-and-sixpenny “ banger ” are worth a year of Irving.
Truly the drammer now means the milliner’s model and
the tailor’s, dummy!
To-day Ristori simply leads the life of a great society
lady—she has wealth, a number of palaces in Rome,
servants in livery, carriages, and every luxury that
appertains to a high position.
A company recently stranded in Delaware, and it is
recorded that “ Lily Hughes took a pug dog and a handful
of Manager Martin’s hair in payment of her two weeks’
salary.”
M. Henri Kowalski’s Sydney benefit, postponed in order
to avoid a clash with the one given to the City poor on
Saturday last, positively will take place on Thursday next,
the 22nd. of August.
It turns out that W. F. Buchanan, the squatter, is chief
proprietor of the Marble Man.
The Brough-Boucicault Co. have only done moderate
business at Adelaide Royal. The latest piece is the
“ Shaughraun,” and the “Colleen Bawn ” is to follow.
Rickards has done well at Garner’s Theatre.
A young bookmaker essayed a comic song at Sydney
Academy of Music, one night last. week. The song was
entitled “ Just in Time.” During a verse before he came
to the retrain another, hidden in the stalls, fired a carrot
at the singer, exclaiming, “Just in time 1 ” The vegetable
landed fairly on the “boko.”
Grade Plaisted, Ohas. Harding, and Barry O’Neil have
been operatically raking in Indian shekels.
Alice Dunning Lingard, perhaps the loveliest woman
who ever trod the Australian stage, is said to be as beau-
tiful as ever.
“ Dorothy” follows “ Pepita” at Sydney Royal.
A contingent of the Brough-Boucicault forces, headed
by Titheradge, will shortly play a season in Newcastle
and Brisbane. Nothing but travel now-a-days for the
poor “pro.”
Frank Lincoln has gone to New Zealand with Manager
Lohr.
Eille Norwood's latest composition, “ Sweetheart Mine,”
is a really beautiful ballad and bound to become popular.
Bland Holt and his Co. left Australia for N.Z. pers.s.
Wakatipu,
The Taylor-Carrington Dramatic Company are storming
the Gippsland towns.
Herr Kuster, who originated Sunday concerts in Sydney
in conjunction with Mr. W. J. Wilson, will essay the like
at the Academy of Music shortly.
Many managers lament the fact of their being unable to
run a music-hall entertainment on the London principle.
The Australian legislatures won’t allow the liquor-music
business.
Monty Brown has joined Hiscoeks to manage one of the
latter’s shows.
J. F. Sheridan and Co. open at Melbourne Opera House
on Saturday next. The company lately did a good busi-
ness in the remote regions of Bourke.
Pain, the firework man, has a hippodrome coming out
from “home.”
A certain Australian manager had a ticklish time the
other day ere getting off per mailboat. Duns were all
round, but his brother managers worked the oracle, and
he was hustled out of reach.
Mesmerist Kennedy did great business in Brisbane.
His representative is Joe Brown, a well-known Melbourne
pressman.
Wirth’s Circus opens in Brisbane on Saturday.
“Liddy” manages Brisbane Opera House for the com-
pany of shareholders.
Mr. Albert Norman and Miss Blanche Lewis were mar-
ried one day last week.
Alf. Lawton is negotiating with Joubert for a show at
N.Z. Exhibition.
Frank M. Clark will have two shows of his own running
in opposition in Brisbane—viz., the Katie Putnam and
Variety companies.
Sir William Manning was called to the
Bar in the year that David Buchanan was born.
At Liverpool (N.S.W.) Turf Club races,
July 31, the first race was won by The Hypocrite,
the second by The Robber, the third by The
Felon, and the fourth by [The] Sovereign. Beau-
tiful climax!


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
—A -
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
The grandeur of scenery, seen from Fred. Wilc-
Icea's Beacons field House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
.X. B. —Only two hours from .Melbourne
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitor#.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Compton’s Wife.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ataht from the typical navvy's predisposition for
v.. I Lily improbable yarns of his own athletic
powers and his fondness for regaling greenhorns
with flights of imagination concerning the filling
of waggons against time, little that is romantic
hovers about a railway-camp. Emu Camp, on the
Avoca River, A r ictoria, was exceptional in one or
two features ; it was picturesquely situated, and
few lank, lean dogs wandered in puvposeles-
melancholy about its deserted tent - \ iewed
from a distant eminence on a warm, nil day,
\vh,eu the white gums seemed to droop in langoiu
ovrr iho scattered canvas township on the verdant
slope and the whole life and action of the place
were concentrated in the clean white cutting
v. here the navvies persistently gnawed their way
into the silent- forest, and like silkworms spun
out behind them the long lines of rails, the picture
was a delightful one, and one that conveyed a
dreamy satisfaction to the soul of the appreciative
spectator. The. navvies of Emu Camp, however,
were not cue of its exceptional features, the nature
of their surroundings had nowise softened them,
and they were generally described as a hard lot—
a definition full of significance.
On the Emu, as on all railway-camps, the one
popular resort was the shanty-—an establishment
of no architectural pretensions, constructed of
slabs and stringy-bark, and conducted by an in-
genuous gentlemen, Mr. Brady Power, and his
partner, an equally ingenuous lady, from amongst
whose great variety of fancy names given in ad-
miration by her patrons, we select the most
i-uplioneous and least offensive —Dibs. OiVis was
short, but she was broad ; she had a Herculean
arm and a reputation.
■ PH lay a quid my missus here’ll lift any man
in the crowd with her teeth !’’ said Mr. Power
one Saturday night in a moment of vinous enthu-
siasm, and he staked his money as an evidence of
Ids faith while Dibs accepted the compliment with
a playful oath and an air of conscious worth. The
stakes were not covered, but the lady’s reputation
was established- henceforth she was regarded
with increased veneration as a lady specially en-
Inwed by Providence with a double-jointed jaw of
abnormal power, and, consequently-, as a person-
age above her humble sphere and better suited to
ornament the music-hall or the circus-ring.
Emu Camp was large
uid jiopulons; it extended
Tom Brannagan’s (lut-
ing to the Avoea, where
x bridge was in course
if construction, and ae
die only opposition Mr.
Brady Power had to
1 react was Stender’s
“Cockatoo’s Arms” (a
name which did not strike
its stolid host as anything
jut felicitious and appro-
priate) on the main road,
a mile or so beyond the
elver, that worthy caterer
tnd the angelic Dibs
: ound their philanthropic
mdeavours to mitigate
the terrible thirst of the
camp exceedingly profit-
able and encouraging.
They had neglected to
ibtain official sanction to
retail fermented and spiri-
tuous liquors, but this fact
did not disparage then-
good work in the eyes of
their customers, who were,
if anything, unconscious-
ly Anarchistic iu their
oontempt for all laws and
ordinances; hence there
was no lack of willing
(lands to haul a barrel
of beer or keg of whisky
out of the river, after it
had been found necessary
to place it there in eonse-
quence of the approach of
troopers from Bealiba,
and the gentlemanly hi-
st incts of the customers
forbade their taking-
further advantage of the
outlawed business than
by an occasional change
of climate, leaving behind
an unsettled score on
Brady’s slate, an action
rendered honourable by custom and precedent.
Beer-drinking is the popular form of amusement
on a railway-camp; whisky and rum as recreations
have their votaries, but the navvy at large favours
the longest drink he can get for his money. Card-
I (laying is another indulgence, but merely as an
accessory to the bibulous pastime, and a means of
lending variety to its performance. Even the
occasional fights between rival plate-layers, that
relieve the monotony of Sunday afternoons, are
contributive to the Bacchanalian adoration, the
beaten man, in addition to his loss of status, being
expected to stand drinks all round.
Brady Power’s shanty, on pay-night, was the
only resort of the denizens of Emu Camp, the fair
sex being always well represented and invariably
animated by a laudable desire to keep pace with
their lords and masters in their determination to
knock “ the edge ” off the fortnight’s wages. The
hostel was a long, narrow building, divided into
two compartments ; the front room was the “bar,”
furnished with an impromptu counter, bush stool,
and rudely-built table with in-turned legs, and a
• pronounced lurch that gave it an appearance of
being personally under the influence of the vile
liquors retailed by Dibs. The “ bar ” was de-
voted to the gentlemen, the ladies finding accom-
modation in the apartment at the back, dignified
by the title of “ bar-parlour ” when not put to its
legitimate use as the bedroom of the partners.
This admirable arrangement was a concession to
t he ultra-respectability of Emu Camp, where a fine
sense of delicacy forbade the sexes getting drunk
in company.
It was “ pay-night.” Three days’ almost inces-
-ant rain had stopped work all along the line, but,
although a corresponding gap made itself evident
in the wages-sheet, Emu Camp did not repine,
neither did it retrench—in fact, the long spell and
the short returns furnished an excuse for increased
conviviality. There,existed a run on the shanty;
Dibs was almost crimson from exertion in answer-
ing demands for “mugs” and “long-ruts,” res-
ponding to shrill calls from the “ bar- parlour,
and making her coarse voice and , hysterical
laughter heard above the prevailing din. The bar
was crowded ; a dense volume of tobacco-smoke
hung about the heads of the navvies who hung
over the counter and sat at the table, playing
eribbage with the supernatural gravity of advanced
inebriation, whilst several groups were arguing
excitedly iu the corners iu a manner that prognos-
ticated at least three fights presently, when Air.
Brady Power would feel himself called upon, in
the interest of his business, to summarily eject the
combatants with that ease and grace which had
caused his reputation as a “ chucker-out to sur-
vive the construction of five railway-lines.
Outside a great log- tire was burning before the
waggon of an itinerant Hebrew who hawked
drapery, hoots, fiats, tobacco, and cheap watches,
and never failed to visit the camp on pay-day.
This interesting stranger was getting up a raffle of
an eighteen-penny aluminium chain, with twenty
members at five shillings each, which sacrifice he
persisted iu making “in th’ intresht of spegula-
tion, mien friends ! ” A group of navvies sur-
rounded the fire, giving a good deal of drunken
attention to the performances of two of their
number, one-of whom, a long, gaunt man with a
very black eye, was playing a weirdly melancholy
refrain on a leaky tin-whistle, whilst another in-
effectually endeavoured to dance a jig to the lugu-
brious music.
The dancer was drunk, and presented an ap-
pearance of having been so for some time; physi-
cally he was a magnificent specimen of the animal-
man—tall of stature and handsome of face, his
faultless frame clothed negligently in clayey
“ moleskins ” and a Crimean shirt, his fine head
surmounted by a mangled billycock. Richard
Compton, Esq., was quite unconscious of his per-
sonal attractions, he never gave the matter a
thought, he had been too hard worked, too thirst y,
during the last year or two to trouble his mind
over minor matters. Compton was a married
man, Ids wife was young and slight, and good,
facts which won Richard the earnest commisera-
tion of his mates, who felt that a wife who
was young and good was an absurdity, anti an
encumbrance. They had wives of their own,
neither young nor good—on the contrary, wives
who were as old as themselves in the rough
usages of camp life and capable of the same ex-
tremes ; who, instead of whining at their heels
when they felt inclined for a spree, also had one.
These gentleman were not loth to express
their sympathy for Dick in his unfortunate
A BUSH TALF.
SQUATTER (to recent arrival from the ould sod): “Mike, go and tail off some of those rams. [Five
minutes later.] What the-are you doing, you balnkity-dash fool ? "
MIKE: “Sure your anner towld me to tail thim rams, an if you'll only howld this wan’s hind-legs. I'll
hev his tail off in two ticks, be jabers."
situation. Why he had married such a wife they
could not divine —some freak, they presumed;
They knew he had “ picked her up on a selection'
on the Hamilton line—nothing more. They did
not know that she had displayed a fortitude their
big-limbed wives never possessed and a tenderness
they could never understand, patiently drawing
him back from the grip of death when he had been
mangled by a blast in the blue-stone cutting, and
lay on that selection, hovering on the fine line
between life and eternity, during many days and
nights. Only Compton knew that if alas ! even
he had not forgotten it.
If Richard Compton loved his wife he did
not show it: if lie had any consideration for her
the fact was successfully disguised.
She it was who stoic through the circle into the
bright light of the fire, and advanced towards him.
Young indeed, and slight, and pretty singularly
out of place iu that company.
“Come, Rick; won’t yon go to the tent with
me now?” she asked, with a forced gaiety, that
the tears in her eyes .and the tremulousness of the
small hands clasping his arm sorely belied.
“Be d-—d ! no,” blurted her hnyband, shaking
his arm free with a fierce gesture.
“Do, dear, it’s so late. See, I’ll take a bottle
up home, and—and- have a drink with you.”
Boor girl, she knows how often her refusals to
drink had provoked his; anger in the past.
He did not answer. Drawing away he struck
her sharply in the face with the back of his hand,
and with a half-suppressed scream she staggered
into the darkness, and bravely forcing back her
tears returned to the company in the bar-parlour.
Compton was not a coward, he was a man to
whom fear was unknown, but he was a brute—
and drunk.
This was not the first time Mrs. Compton had
visited Brady Power’s shanty—it was not the first
t ime her husband had struck her there ; but, when
he was drinking, she was in agony away from him.
The love she bore him was the power that ruled
her life—the intense affection of a sensitive
clinging nature. Her love exacted little enough
iu return, God knows; when lie was sober and
safe she was almost happy, when he was swaggering-
in the shanty, hot with drink and vaunting his
colossal strength, she was torn with anxiety and
fear. One night she saw a fight in the bar saw
the hurled tumbler, the blood flowing from a
fearful wound, the two men, white with a rage
akin to madness, clash in tigerish fury, hoard
the terrible blows they rained on each other’s
faces, and the scene filled her soul with horror.
A dread possessed her that-Rick would some night
provoke those passionate men, and she determined
to be near to throw herself between them, to stand
before his unworthy body and receive the blows
if need be.
The picture is a ludicrous one, is it not A
pale, fragile girl standing between her herculean
husband and an opponent to protect and shield
him. It did not appear so to her ; she was very
earnest ; she thought even her weakness and youth
would not be without their strength in averting
danger from him she loved. For his sake she
frequented the bar-parlour, for his sake she sat
amongst those women, several of whom had estab-
lished a sort of protectorate over her, and gave
her wholesome advice in the matter of managing
husbands in general. She even thought that if
she tried to make herself more like them, stronger
and more self-reliant, less fearful of trifles, and
bolder in her manner, he might like her better.
The women, too, sneered at her childishness and
fondness for her husband, and the wide difference
between her nature and theirs was a continual
source of misery to her. At times, actuated by
her painful sense of isolation and her weakness,
she even tried to be like them, she drank some of
the liquor they pressed upon her, the nauseating,
fiery spirits that made her face glow crimson and
her eyes burn in her head. Once she swore—it
was a silly, meaningless oath, common amongst
her companions, but it dragged on her unaccus-
tomed lips and burnt them like fire. Tlie act was
a pitiful one, and had there been a motherly heart
present it must have ached for her, but there was
none, and the word passed unheeded.
Airs. Compton made one more effort to get her
husband away that night. _ When she went to him
again her eyes sparkled with an unnatural lustre,
and there was an unwonted flame in either cheek.
He was standing at the bar, and she ventured to
pluck his sleeve :
“Do come now, Rick, please; it’s so late !”
He turned upon her with savage impatience,
and seizing her by the shoulders forced her out of
the room.
“Now go I” he exclaimed with an oath. ■“You
hear ! Go to the tent, and if you show your face
in here again to night I’ll -1 ’ll ”
” But, Rick, dear ”
■' You hear me 1 ” he shouted hoarsely, raising
his fist threateningly.
She shrank back, and disappeared—she dared
not disobey him further.
Richard Compton did not go to his tent
that night, he remained at the shanty, bandying
chaff and anecdotes with the versatile and loqua-
cious Dibs, and playing fit ful and incomprehensible
games of “crib,” till the last of the ladies had
gone from the bar parlour, chiefly borne off into
the darkness, laughing wildly, or screaming in
profane protestation, at which time Mr. Brady
Power deeply regretted to have to inform the
assembled gentlemen that the sanguineus and
eternally condemned “tangle” had pegged out,
by which phrase lie inferred that the beer was
done. Then Rick and two others, seized by a
drunken whim, started across the river, deter-
mined to shake up “ Jacko ” Stender and finish
the night at the “ Cockatoo Arms.”
ft started raining again towards morning, and
till noon on Sunday the flood streamed down as if
another deluge were in store, and through it all
Mrs. Compton sat in her tent, tormented with
fears and with conjectures. At length she could
bear it no longer ; the rain had somewhat abated,
and, wrapping herself in a shawl, she hastened
across to the shanty.
Pie was gone—had left there at midnight.
Almost mad with dread, she ran to the river
where a crowd was collected. The river was run-
ning over its banks and boiling and tumbling in
fury over about the piles and scaffolding of the
contemplated bridge. The people had been drawn
thither in explanation of seeing the work so far as
it had gone demolished by the rushing waters, a
consummation which seemed imminent as thestrong
timbers swayed and bent in the flood. None of
the men had seen Rick since the night before.
But don’t thee trouble, thoo canny wee
thing,” said an old “Geordie” gaffer, patting
her shoulder reassuringly, “ tha fond man’s nae
cuddy, he’ll be beyond at th’ Cockatoo wi yon
Ernie Tate an’ Brandy Smith awm sure.”
Even as he spoke, Compton was seen to come
out from amongst the saplings and stagger towards
the piles on the other bank. That lie was very
drunk was only too evident from his reeling gait
and his palpable' unconsciousness of the changed
stall-of the surroundings. Advancing io the feu
frail planks which, strung from one pule lo
another, had served the men as a bridge when Tin-
river was low, he clutched at the feeble rail with a
wavering hand, and tried vainly to steady himself
before attempting to cross.
With wild and with an awful fear choking
her breath, Mrs. Compton stood motionless; she
realised that her husband could never pass over
that feeble structure, already swaying in the
leaping water as if about to be torn from its weak
moorings. This Compton could not see, neither
could he hear the loud shouts of warning from the
excited men on the other side.
“'Rick; Hick! for God's sake, keep back!”
It was his wife who called, she had advanced on to
the planks, and stood as pale as death with one
arm uplifted in warning. He did not appear to
have noticed her, he had reeled against one of the
piles, and was again advancing.
In another moment his girl-wife was out in
mid-stream, battling with the tide. Twice she
was washed off her feet, but she clung to the hand-
rail and succeeded in regaining the, swaying
planks, and continued to force her way to the spot
where her husband stood. He had caught sight
of her and halted, with his eyes fixed upon her
struggling figure and a curious, puzzled look on
his face. At length she reached him safely by
what might have been a miracle, and threw herself
upon his breast, gasping in agony :
“ You must not —you must not ! Oh, Rick !it
would never bear you !”
Frail as she was, and exhausted as she was, her
light weight caused him to stagger and fall. Re-
gaining his feet, ho reeled towards her, with the
fire of rage in his eyes.
“ Curse you !” he cried. “Don't I say I won't
go home?”
His clenched hand fell heavily on her forehead,
she tottei-ed back upon the frail bridge, and. sank
into the flood. There was a crashing of timber,
and Compton saw his wife borne down stream
amongst the wreckage of the crossing. For one
brief moment he gazed in bewilderment at the
place where she had fallen. That moment sobered
him. Turning, with an awful scream, he rushed
along the bank. The navvies following on the
other shore saw him plunge into the river and
reach the dark head that appeared ever and anon
above the yellow waters, then two interlocked
figures were carried swiftly on.
■Again and again Compton struggled for the
shore, and again and again was he swept away by
the current. The last, almost-hopeless battle
brought him within reach of some of the men who
had run ahead to the Ti-tree Bond, and he was
dragged ashore and laid on the grass, holding his
insensible wife with a grip which they could not
unclasp. Presently he arose, and bearing the
slight figure of his wife in his arms, he hastened
towards their tent without a word. Once there, ho
laid her wet and bleeding form on a bed, and,
turning his ghastly set, face to the men, he
gasped -
“ For the love of heaven, Pope, ride to Bealiba
and bring a doctor !”
Airs. Compton was brought round after long-
exertion, when hope was almost gone, and even
then she lay for a long time so weak and pale that
she seemed like a snowdrop that might be crushed
with the pressure of a finger, and for three days
and three nights her husband remained in anguish
by her bedside, white and silent, with the blood
from her wounded head and the mud and stains of
the river still upon him.
Richard Compton never lifted his hand iu anger
to his wife again ; he was a reformed man. He
did not become a shining light in a Temperance
Society, nor did he ever pass the plate at church —
he did not even get into Parliament, he remained
a workingman with a great reverence for his little
wife. Few others detected any change in him,
saving that he persisted in a ridiculous sobriety
under the most trying circumstances, but it was
plain to her , and she was happy.
EDWARD DYSON.
Mrs. Florence E. Maybrick, niece of Jefferson
Davis, and relative of no end of aristocratic per-
sonages all over Europe, who poisoned her hus-
band at Liverpool, England, in April last, and has
now, it is cabled, been condemned to death, is
thus described by the Liverpool Post
Mrs. Maybrick was very neatly attired in a mourning-
Russian cloak, with two broad bands of crape running-
down the front. A coquettish net veil just reached to the
tip of her nose, while the long widow’s veil hung grace-
fully behind, falling on what a lady described as a “nicely
tilted-up toxmmre.” Delicate lawn “weepers” adorned
her dark sleeves, and her pale but interesting face was set
off with a dandy little bonnet. Beneath this head-dress,
and covering the greater part of her brow, was a carefully-
curled fringe, which considerably enhanced her personal
charms. Her hair was also worn at the back in the shape
of a fringe, and altogether she presented a by no means
unattractive appearance. Her figure is petite, and seen in
the full light her complexion is much fairer than when
one observed her in the gloomy precincts of Walton
Prison. She has wavy brown hair, and her features arc
what some of her sex would be inclined to describe as
more piquant than classically regular. Perfectly calm and
collected, she listened to the terrible charges against her
as once more recited by Inspector Baxkxdale, and appar-
ently the recital did not disturb in the slightest her mental
equilibrium. She looked in good health, and there was a
wholesome colour in her cheeks, which was observable for
the first time since her incarceration. . . . As soon as
the verdict of the jury, which was declared in the most
emphatic manner by the foreman, Mr. Fletcher Rogers,
became known, the coroner said, “Send for Mrs. May-
brick.” For two minutes there was a hush of anxiety
and curiosity, and everyone gathered closer and closer
around the tables, and looked eagerly towards the door
of the little library through which the accused lady must
come. At length Inspector Baxbsdale, followed by a
huge sergeant, came through the door, and they were
immediately followed by the petite figure of Mrs. May-
brick, covered with crape from head to foot. When
the coroner told her that she would be committed
for trial for the wilful murder of her husband there
was the slightest inclination of the head —a move-
ment so freezingly polite as to suggest sarcasm at the
formality; and then the lady turned on her heel, and,
followed very closely by a little female attendant and two
very stalwart policemen, who looked absurdly out of pro-
portion to the fragile figure they had to guard, she
rapidly left the room through the library door.
Tliere was a man in the case, of course; one
Alfred Brierley, with whom Mrs. Maybrick
now admits she committed adultery, and who
has spent £4OOO in defending his paramour
against the charge of murder. The deceased
husband was in the habit of taking arsenic as a
nerve-tonic, and this seems to have suggested
to his wife the means by which she should give
him a lift over Jordan’s stream. Mrs. Maybrick
seems to have been a rather unhappy little woman,
and one witness testified to a black eye with which
her husband had presented her. Altogether it
seems a sort of English edition of a Louisa Col-
lins case in high life.


John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AIC'TIOXEKRS.
T. jXT 33 G- EJ T £s ,
Business Brokers A Partnership Agents,
71 Swans ton Street, M elbourne.
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &c.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &c.
Printed List Businesses for Sale Issued Bally.
All Lists posted Free on application.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the-market. -
High Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONT
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney 7, stand p.re-,
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington “By Appointment.”
For Chronic Dyspepsia
USE lIORSFORD'S acid phosphate.
Dr. Edwin Morris, F.R.C.S., and L.S.A., S High-street,
Spalding, Lincolnshire, Eng., says: “Of all the remedial
agents, I have never met with one so efficacious in chronic
dyspepsia. I speak from personal experience of its excellent
qualities, and as a nervine tonic I cannot too highly recom-
mend it.'’
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent PoiA/im Fdour. It is the greatest success of the
ige.
Personal Items.
Saumarez Smith is to be the new Sydney
bishop. Some more Smith! *
The new Primate of Australia, Saumarez
Smith, will be known as Sydney Smith.
it is said that the Queen’s John Brown
was once a warder in a private lunatic asluin.
An American paper ;—“ Has Mrs, asks
Langtry a husband at present, and if so, which /
Mr. Hunt knew how to make money
before he became Deputy-Master of the Sydney
Mint.
The Governor of Flemingtou Racecourse,
Sir Henry Loch, lias left England for Victoria via
America.
The New Zealanders want to know whether
it can be true that Governor Onslow buys bis eab-
bagee from Chinamen.
Princess Louise of Wales, it is stated, said
she disliked the German princes because she had
seen them eat raw bacon.
Our old friend, Gerald Massey, is about to
issue a complete edition of his poems under the
title, “ My Lyrical Life.”
Niniaii Melville, M.P. (and undertaker),
describes himself as “an ardent champion uf the
peoples’ rights." Rites, also.
Jubilee Juggins Beuzuii says that his Aus-
tralian tour cost him £05,000. When in Sydney
he sanctified Manly Beach by his presence and
distributed post oh it paper with a generous hand.
The lists sent around to the different
N.S.W. municipalities by the (late Hon. John)
“Sutherland Memorial Committee,” are marked
at the foot, “ All his property heavily mortgaged.
The Smith a naughty man is/ he—in
N.S.W . Governor Smith, Bruce Smith, Primate
Smith, Burdett Smith, Sydney Smith, Ac., Ac.
It is a brotherhood of Church, State, and Sas-
,-icty.
James Crawford, Gympie mining-secre-
tary, has been arrested for forgery and embezzle,
ment. However, as Mr. Crawford is a church j
elder, we are quite sure there is nothing - in the
accusation.
The Californian artist, Jules Tavernier
(born in Paris, in 1811), died at Honolulu, May 18.
His picture of the Mauna Loa volcano is eon
sidered a great effort. His troubles were heart-
disease and asthma.
Up to latest dates the Duke of Portland
had won £70,000 in stakes alone with his two great
horses —Donovan and Ayrshire. Donovan’s two-
year-old half-sister, Semolina, is also proving a
gold-mine to the Dook.
When the late Richard Anthony Proctor
was a school-examiner he one day asked a little
girl to tell him the difference between a man and
a brute. She said, “A brute is an imperfect
beast. Man is a perfect beast.”
The miniature silver-boom now on, or over,
has added a little more to the piles of the knowing
ones. Mr. Turner is credited with £12,000, out of
Central!, and Mr. Percy Horn, the Adelaide
Broken Hill magnate, with £30,000.
Mr. John Fyfe, the oldest member of the
N.S.W. Engineering Association, died the other
day, aged 86 years. He was the first president of
the association, and assisted to construct the first
steam-engine, made in the year 1812,
That well-known coloured gentleman,
Albert Messiah—famous latterly for his evidence
in the “Hopeful” slavery-murder case, which
gaoled two men for life —is now practising as a
corn-doctor in Sydney, under a Hibernian appella-
tion.
A N.Z. “Im Pay,” who had over £lOO
worth of drinks “ chalked up ” against him at the
Northern Club, and paid them off with a valueless
cheque, has received a quiet intimation that he
will be “ posted ” unless he stumps up something-
more substantial than worthless paper.
The “good gray poet,” Walt Whitman,
started his literary career washing rollers in the
office of the Long Island Patriot. Thence he
leaped to the editorship of the Brooklyn Eagle.
Emerson was the only man of note who com-
mended “Leaves of Grass,” Walt’s first volume.
As a matter of fact Whitman-reading, like olive-
eating, is an acquired taste.
Sir William Manning, arguing on a verba
amendment in the N.S.W. Legislative Council,
declared that the phrase “ final and conclusive
was tautological, inasmuch as whatever was final
must be conclusive, and whatever was conclusive
must be final. Whereupon Salomons, Q.G. ;
“ When my lion, and learned friend speaks last,
his words are final; but, with every respect to the
lion, gentleman, they are far from conclusive.”
John Baird, Judge Stephen's coachman,
while giving evidence at Sydney Criminal Court,
last week, stated that a certain night was so dark
that “ you wouldn't be able to recognise anybody
except you knew who it was.” Mr. Rogers, Q.C.,
asked, “ Was that stable gate locked ? “It was
whin I opened it,” promptly replied John, who on
the Q.C. enauiring if there was anyone with him
at the time answered : “ Yes, I was by myself and
another party.”
The Earl of Lisburne, a nobleman mainly
remarkable for owning many thousands of acres of
Welsh soil, has sent a condescending circular to his
tenants, stating that he will again (yes, again 1)
return 15 per cent, on all rents paid in full on the
days fixed. This gorgeous act of generosity,
which has been lavishly paragraphed by the Tory
press, reminds us that Lisburne’s tailor.probably
allows the aristocracy 15 per cent. dis. off bills,
paid on quarter-day.
Our dear old friend, the Marquis of
Queensberry, has assured the N. Y. Herald that;
he is not an atheist, but a follower, in regular
standing, of Darwin and Spencer. Says Life—
bitterly enough—
.“ 4 s one . these gentlemen is dead and the other an
invalid, neither can be expected to discuss the question of
discrpleship with his lordship, according to his lordship’s
relative’s celebrated rules. And yet, it is doubtful if
either of them would desire that the moral value of their
doctrine should be judged by this particular fruit of it.”
On one occasion the Shah, dining with an
English peer, had a huge dish of early cucumbers
placed before him. The Shah said never a word,
but began to put himself outside of as many of
these cholera-provokers as he safely could. He
had buried a couple of dozen of them, and the
host and his more prominent guests began to in-
dulge the hope that their turn would soon come,
when his Majesty quietly and solemnly stowed
the remainder away in his bosom and pantaloons,
and left the table “loaded” inside and out.
Varley, the preacher, began life in Lon-
don. He came to Geelong as a lively young
butcher and made a lot of money. Then went to
London, married his master’s daughter, and shone
amid the slaughtermen at Smithtield. The habit
he has of rubbing his hands, in speaking, is a
remembrance of the old Buy ! Buy ! He built a
tabernacle in Netting Hill, Varley would stop in
England but for his throat and chest, which can-
not stand the English weather. He has preached
over the United States and Canada. Preaching-
flatters his vanity, but he sacrifices his pocket, and
would, apparently, have had a large fortune but
for his expatiatious.
Queen Victoria lias been entertaining the
Shah. He is a nice old gentleman, with a nice
mother. A young woman of the lower ranks was
in the habit of frequenting dances and entertain-
ments of the rich. She was pretty and had a cer-
tain reputation. Someone drew the attention of
/
"'I" V,
the Shah’s mother to her escapades ; she was sent
for, and unfortunately replied to the charges of the
royal lady by atu quoque ! The Queen mother
handed the girl over to her guard, ordering that
she should be wrapped in a carpet and jumped on
till life was extinct —which sentence was carried
out, and would not, indeed, have excited much
attention but for the youth, beauty, and notoriety
of the victim.
The member for Woothakata (Q.), W.
Clancy Little, is not a Goliath in stature, but lie
has brawn upon his forearm and a fist at the
end thereof. Coming home from the late
Dillon demonstration in Brisbane, he found his
way instinctively into a place where the bar-maiden
plieth the pump-handle at the fountain, and there
met he a rabid anti-Dillonite, who first argued
with him and then smote him upon his blessed
mouth. A gory spectacle presented itself as the
little man wiped the floor of the bar-parlour with
the debris of the Liberal Unionist, and when,
later on, the legislator appeared to his wife with
the war-paint of the slaughter-house upon him, she
exclaimed : “ Ah ! I see you’ve been to the Dillon
meeting—how many were killed !’
It is pointed out that the Wettin-Fife
alliance is all the more desirable in that the Duke
has Guelph blood in his veins !
His mother was a daughter of the Countess of Erroll,
who was the daughter of William IV., by his marriage
with Mrs. Jordan. Lady Erroll was, therefore, first cousin
to the Queen, the Countess of Fife was second cousin to
the Prince of Wales, and Lord Fife is third cousin to his
bride.
The marriage of William IV. (when Duke of
Clarence) with Mrs. Jordan, whom he afterwards
cruelly threw over, was not recognised by law ;
consequently Fife’s family connection with his
bride is not a thing to swagger about. The Queen
lias a good many lefthander! relations among her
despised subjects. Even in Australia, the droop-
ing jowls of unmistakeable Guelphs are seen in
every city.
POLITICAL POINTS
In the year 1873 the value of silver was a
fifteenth of that of gold. Now it is only one-
twentieth.
Anagram. “At spes non fracta ” (Hopc-
toun’s motto) —“ A Scot sent far. Nap!” W hick
is just what Knutsford said when he played his
last card.
N. S. Wales provides State-paid chaplains
for her lunatic asylums, but she provides none for
her destitute asylums, where the inmates are not
supposed to be mad. Only the mad need religion ?
The London and N. W. Railway Co. (Eng.)
charge £2 a ton for carrying N.Z. mutton from
Liverpool to London, and only 255. a ton for
American moat. This amounts to a preferential
rate of 37 h per cent, on the part of England to the
U.S. over an alleged British colony.
Judging from the “Special Report" of
of the Young branch of the “Amalgamated
Shearers’ Union of Australasia,” that body is
imbued with a stronger idi a of the necessity of
working in league with other unions, than the bulk
of labour leagues seem capable of possessing.
Sir Henry Finch, the celebrated English
law-writer, held “that the grant of a State office
to an ignorant man, who had no skill at all, was
utterly void.” As we have inherited much of the
English common law, it would be well to inquire
whether Finch’s law is dead or only playing
’possum ?
Surely Victoria gives N.S.W. the best line
in payment of members! It put an end to the
scandals which we would like to be delivered from.
Sir Graham Berry promptly shut up the absurdity
of Admiral Field, who apologised for saying, in
the House of Commons, that payment of members
Caused demoralisation in Victoria,
After spending £135,000,000 since 1871 in
fortifying their frontiers, the French were horrified
last year to find that the progress of artillery
science in Germany had already rendered then-
new defences obsolete and worthless. While the
French have been building forts, the Germans
have been demolishing theirs. The military
policy of the German general staff may be
summed up in three words —troops, telegraphs,
trains.
How such old Victorians as O’Shanassy,
William Gray, Don, and Heales would heel over
in their graves if they could see N.S.W'. taking the
lead in regard to West Australia ! Jeshurun waxed
fat and kicked. What is the worth of Victoria’s
big surplus if public spirit is gone ? Mammon is
all. Victorian Democracy is pretty well cooked.
The Conservatives have oiled over the whole
political machine. Not a single working man's
representative sits in the Victorian Parliament.
The enemies of Shirley Baker, Premier of
Tonga, circulate a report that his influence is
waning. Surely the Wesleyan Church must re-
flect on the immorality of bolstering up the at-
tempted murderers of Baker. What was his
crime? Endeavouring to stop money going out
of the country to support foreign leeches. There-
fore the godly gun is to be fetched out to shoot
him. Suppose he had been killed, what a sight of
hypocritical weeping ! But what mawworm joy !
It would be providential.
Thus Mr. A. J, Taylor (Hobart) in a
pamphlet entitled “Imperial Federation per,<■>/.»
Australian Independence ” :
“ How shall we deal with India," .Mr. Parkin had askut,
and he had answered himself in these words: “We will
rule India for India’s good.” What! One portion of a
Federation rule another ! One portion of a Federation
domineer ox er another ! Such a thing had never been
heard of in the history of Federation ; for it was the soul
and essence of a Federation that each of its parts should
be on an equality and enjoy equal rights. . The advocates
of Imperial Federation were in sore straits when they
had to make such admissions as that.
The clever A. G. Taylor, it is ironically
asserted, will show again in N.S.W. politics, as
soon as he can ascertain whether he is a Protec-
tionist or Foreign-trader. Against his advocating
Protection there stands las well-remembered
declaration to the, Mudgeo people that “ manufac-
tories would make their sons larrikins, and their
daughters members of the auti-Social Purity
Society." If he elects to go for Mudgeo, !In-
Escaped Haynes will be freed from his Parlia-
mentary duties for an indefinite period.
Rev. Charles Strong—bless his heart '
proposes that the Melbourne Charity Organisation
Society shall discover the causes of poverty and
its remedies. Poverty, friend Strong, is constitu-
tional in isolated instances. But, generally speak-
ing* poverty is caused by the fact that Labour
supports Capital, while Capital supports itself
without labour, and the intermediate class, which
is neither Capital nor Labour, always wants to run
a little shop. Finally, society at large keeps too
many parsons and politicians rolling in luxury,
and they require to be remedied somehow.
NEW VOTING RULES,
Published m view of the approaching N.S.W.
general election, and respectfully dedicated to the
l-Teetrado Leagues and Orange lodges • also to the
Protectionist Associations
Tote early, and vote often.
Impersonation is the handmaiden of victorv.
Better vote twice i ban-nor at ail,
Necessity is the mother of double votinca
Never sell your vote—too cheaplv.
The dead are not to be despised."
A dead man’s vote in hand is worth the votes of two
Jive men in the bush.
A vote in time may save “forty.”
Always plump when you’re in doubt.
A dead voter s name should always be assumed without
undue ostentation and with the modesty that brings its
own reward at the top of the poll. Smith will do.
Vote three times if you can, but vote twice anyway.
All’s fair in love and war.
A Sanitary Effect.
The above sentence lias become famous through
its misapplication by a member of a colonial
legislature, who was in favour of the measure
providing that Ministers on accepting office should,
as hitherto, go for re-election before their con-
stituents, on the ground that it would have “a
sanitary effect.”
In these latter days when every person who
drinks even water is brought face to face with tin
assertion that lie may be swallowing the germs of
typhoid which are said to have made the Yau
Yean water supply their sporting ground, sanita-
tion becomes a question of the first and highest
importance. But all the efforts that may be made
in the direction of strict cleanliness and the
enforced use of disinfectants, will not of them
selves protect the human system from the inroad
of these imperceptible monsters which flit about
in both water and air in search of a suitable
propagating medium. What a desperate battle
is ever going on in our midst, far more fatal than
war ! Diseases of the Liver and Kidneys destroy
more people every year than all the
Europe. Arc there not withered faces, among us
which should be in the bloom of youthful beauty t
Do we not see broken-down men and women in the
very prime of life ? The world may regard these
with a pity verging on antipathy. Once let Liver
and Kidney complaint invade the system, and
signs of dilapidation must speedily follow. Legion
is the number of sufferers from inactive liver and
disorganised Kidneys, and it is now an established
fact that most diseases emanate from these organs.
For generations wrong doctrines prevailed. Yea,
the false philosophy of Aristotle enslaved the
minds of civilized men for a thousand years or
more, but it has now perished like a “tale that is
told.”
it therefore behoves those w ho are in the posses-
sion of health to guard it by fortifying their
system, while those already becoming debilitated,
should not lose a moment in seeking for a means
of supplying nature with recuperative power.
Such a reactionary medium is to be found in
Warner’s Safe Cure and Pills, which stimulate
the dormant functions into activity and infallibly
restore constitutional vigor.
The other “ Safe ” remedies, are equally effective
in attaining their specified ends. There are
thousands who die every year from want of sleep,
scientifically denoted as “Insomnia.” Sleepless-
ness has become a disease and frequently the
precursor of insanity. If it docs not reach that
sad result it is still a peril, and undermines health.
Nature keeps close accounts : and it is impossible
to dodge her demands for vengeance if her claims
are disregarded. A remedy calculated to produce
refreshing sleep must therefore be a valuable
therapeutical discovery. Such is Warner’s Safe
Nervine, and when its merits are fully recognized,
it will occupy the same position as a remedial
■ agent as the better known medicines. While
Warner's Safe Remedies are as proprietory
Medicines approved of by the German Govern-
ment, they are also endorsed by many Members
of the Faculty, among them are Professor Gunn,
Dean of the University of New York; R. Stirling,
1.R.C.5.1., of Dunedin ; the late Dr. C. Fisher-
Cripps, M.D., the well-known practitioner of
Sydney; Dr. Leggett, M.R.C.S.E., of Nelson;
C. Tennant, M.D., of Auckland, and a host of
other distinguished physicians.


In re Western Australia.
COLONIAL CHORUS: “CANT HE WALK?”
NURSE: “I DON’T KNOW. I NEVER TRIED HIM.”
CHORUS: “ THEN LET HIM COME WITH US; WE’LL SOON TEACH HIM!”
NURSE: “AH! BUT I’M AFRAID YOU’LL TEACH HIM SOME OF YOUR NAUGHTY REPUBLICAN WORDS!”


’ Anttcjftf f 7 es * re oat ~
Sy//Za//t' s /? ? a "?'
//7/ten? p Pc/, /pfc apoTprr £ us^
0?/y tyacCfi yas/rrs 6J^rs^ r
r/
f' s
rdf HAPPY FAMILY-
Mete cjasaw // °“ r %£-
/,L > ufycfHH** rise
I'A /u/r , f Xra^9 6/^¥ .
sdfsd
ď
\m RAU/I
,nT
-////r J/WMW //^/
Tj/y/y - ?*re/p/fr yfy/frt'LS
c/rrar/ q/
/ (OUB SPECIAL MESS AOS.) |
' LoNdon, Friday.—Further news he - , been
received confirming the report that Mr. H.
M. Stanley had rejoined Emin Bey and that
the two with 9000 followers, are journeying
towards Zanzibar. They are reported to
have secured enormous quantities of ivory.
7su/ /mm yucf e /
/e/ftsfacc y
tfayf//Tpt't'
areye 2. /doo- 00 aqU A
f ya/f - //) fut- ■? S/fiure. ay ' 0^ O! /$>
CoocS~ 60/e/ou./' Cl Cp Cpe C4<* /•- clcA: - 7scr ? v
Ou/t fcef^./Sces^'
‘l7 s j nreef t* tear /fe u/aTcf, - ctoqs
gayest' v _
Things in General.


“HOG’S HEAD” BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
V. B. WHEELER & CO,,
265 Clarence Street,
3 Y D IP E IT.
00LQ11AL |>ei>ositum<i|>|s<oixt JJ[|K
82 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Arcade).
Deposits received and Interest allowed as follows
3 Years
12 Months
G Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
!> per cent.
8 per cent.
G per cent.
All customary banking business transacted.
Communications to be addressed to
H. LIKELY, Manager.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
365 George Street, SYDNEY,
\YE Jrsx Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3XTew Fianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Bluthner, Collard, and others
Also of the wonderful Victor r»ianos art £45 and Bstey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
The new S.A. Governor, Lord Kintore, in
a late speech, made use of some items contained in
a speech delivered by him when known as Lord
Inverarie. For this he was taken to task by a
Queensland paper, unaware of the identity of
Kintore and Inverarie. This paper is set right by
a Melbourne contemporary. The Bulletin thinks
that Kintore's plagiarism of Inverarie is not much
less blameworthy than the robbing from a total
strano-er. Australia doesn’t want rehash speeches;
originality is essential if Governors would win our
respect as orators. We are prepared to write
speeches for Kintore and his brother pro-consuls.
Terms on application.
# *
The story that Letty Lind had settled
down in Chicago with her Silver King, and was
teaching a Sunday-school class of Chinese, turns
out to be the moonshine predicted by The Bulle-
tin. Letty has returned to London a delicious
spinster, same as before, full of joyous reminis-
cences of the “perfectly lovely tune we had m
Sydney.” When asked
about the truth of a
report that she was to
marry a wealthy Austra-
lian the maiden dissem-
bled somewhat and said,
44 Time will show.” This
paragraph is adapted
from various Histories of
the Gaiety Burlesquers.
When Lady Norman
and the Queensland
gubernatorial coterie
arri veil at Thur s d ay
Island, on the way to their
kingdom, her ladyship
regretted they could not
go down the Gulf to see
Normanton. “It would
be so pleasant, you know,
my dear, to land in
Queensland at the town
that has been named after
Sir Henry; and wasn’t
it nice of the Queenslanders to pay such a compli-
ment to the dear General, and before our appoint-
ment to the colony, too —just like naming a boy
before birth after some great personage, and to
find that it was a boy, sure enough, when the time
came ?” No returning colonist was base enough to
undeceive the lady by telling her that the town
referred to had been baptised long before she had
become the brave General’s “ third,” when he was
smiling on the ladies of the princely House of
Oude and the lords of the holy city of Benares,
# # #
Lord Hopetoun, as Victorian Governor,
will bring out a couple of hunting horses, and
means to go in heavily for the Chase. Bad news
for the Kurruk. Balfour, M‘Eachran, and
Rentoul won’t stomach this. However, they must
work him for the best. When Sir George Bowen
was Governor, the Presbyterian Assembly ar-
ranged a deputation to wait on him. Sir George’s
secretary wrote asking them to come early, as His
Excellency wanted to go to the races. We heard
the Rev. Dr. Cairns tell this anecdote, and he
added, “ The scawmp! ” Indeed some of Bowen s
rigs were not O.K. to the Presbytery. One time
he presided at the Y.M.0.A., in the Town Hall,
Melbourne. Everybody on the platform turned
round to their chairs to kneel for prayer. After
a rueful glance round, Bowen turned to his chair,
and knelt also. Do at Rome, &o.
All the Melbourne hunting world is agog over
Lord Hopetoun. This interest has been somewhat
languishing since Sam Waldock died and George
Watson got too old for the pigskin. Watson, the
famous Melbourne race-starter, used to be a grei t
man for the hoimds : kangaroo, dingo, stag, fo ,
or red-herring drag. They are arranging to give
Hopetoim a big send-off at Braybrook in the
north, or Oakleigh in the south. A star of the
Melbourne hunting field of yore was the celebrati d
Lady-in-Grey on Merrimac, the steeplechaser.
Another was the odd Dicker Hamilton, who wrote
descriptions of the runs as “Nimrod’s Ghost in
the Australasian. Vernon Delves Broughton
at one time afforded good runs after the kangaroo
with his hounds at Mornington. He was Master
of the Melbourne Mint, and seemed to have a
private mint of his own.
* * *
Rather a screaming joke is the “Society
of Musicians of Australasia,” which held a first
general meeting in Melbourne last week. Ihe
meeting consisted of Alfred Plumpton in the chair
and ten other sons of harmony. Julius Herz, sec-
retary, explained that they were anxiously await-
ing the Queen’s permit to become a Royal Society,
after which they purposed to uphold the dignity
of the Art (the last time we saw Julius he was
conducting a small brass band at Pain s I ire-
works) to give assistance in the musical educa-
tion of professional members’ children who gave
MY FIRST AND LAST ATTEMPT AT SKATING.
evidence of talent, (great Scott ! they are all
boiling over with talent, like their parents)
to foster musical genius existing outside mem-
bers of the profession (this is too horrible!)
and to befriend any musician who stood in
need of help when in sickness or otherwise (“ or
otherwise ” is a pretty big order, for a professional
musician is always in “ otherwise ” when he isn’t
sick). And then Secretary Herz read that most
affecting and beautiful rule of the Society of
Musicians in Australia, which decrees that him-
self, Mr. President Plumpton, and J. B. Zerbini
(who is, presumably, the treasurer) are to be life-
directors of the show. They are to constitute a
species of everlasting blessed trinity. And yet
there is not one Plumpton, but three Plumptons,
and whosoever doesn’t believe will be darned, and
so forth. These rules were carried with great
vigour, and the whole meeting adjourned to Mrs.
Lane’s, and drank eleven whiskies consecutively to
the dignity of the Art. This amusing society has
got Governor Robinson and £2OO of subscriptions.
All it needs now is the Royal warrant and a dose
of castor-oil to make it right.
» # #
A nice little lawsuit may be expected
shortly concerning the lease of some valuable
land in an Australian metropolis. A certain very
old gentleman is, and has been for many years, the
owner of the allotment in question. He has
a large number of descendants all expectant of
a fair share of his many valuable properties on
his decease. But men propose and other men
dispose. In this case the advisers of the old gen-
tleman have been the disposers. Some three years
ago he signed a fifty-years’ lease of the pro-
perty for a compensation of £3OOO a year. The
lessees (who are said to include the said advisers)
have erected on the land a splendid pile of build-
ings which brings them in £lO,OOO a year at the
least; and ere the lease expires the revenue may
be doubled. The old gentleman’s children, who do
not appear to have been made aware of the negotia-
tions, are indignant at the transaction, and claim
that the senility of their father has been traded on
to such an extent that they have been deprived of
£15,000. Hence the “law.”
# * *
tX)R SALE, GRAVE, BxB, kerbed, best position,
I Rookwood Presbyterian ground. Owner, having
ground at Waverley, will sell reasonably. Apply by
letter to .
The Sydney police tell most amusing
stories about one or more of the watchmen in the
employ of the local Night Watch Company.
Thesefunny little tales have reference the first
night on which the 44 reliable watchmen ” started
forth to patrol the streets 44 provided with bull’s-
eye lanterns of the very latest pattern. ’
* # *
We have seen the portraits of Mr., Mrs.,
and Miss Hoffnung painted by Mr. Lionel Cowen,
brother of the composer who lately visited these
shores. That of Mr. Hoffnung is a particularly
fine portrait; it is also so good a likeness that no
one, even the most casually acquainted with that
gentleman’s lineaments, could fail to recognise him
at a glance.
# % *
At a sale of flowering shrubs in Yarra-
wohga, Victoria, the labels had been lost and the
sale languished because the buyers wanted*.Latin
names. These were quickly supplied by Scotty
the Wrinkler, to whom the auctioneer gave fialf-a-
crown and two long beers. The list included
valuable specimens of the acne punctata, morbus
cerulcus, Invino veritas, caccheccia intoxicata, cbc-
culus indicus and cacoethes srribendi. We are
glad to see a daily increasing desire for technical
knowledge.
The Bulletin is asked why the military
bands do not play in the Sydney Botanic Gardens
on Saturday and Sunday afternoons, when an in-
telligent democracy would have a chance of hear-
ing them. Can it be because “society” is either
at the races or at matinee concerts on Sunday
afternoons, while on Sundays it sleeps all day ?
* * *
A nice lot of chuckle-heads are get-
ting into the Victorian police. At Box Hill
(Melb.), last week, two active and intelligent
officers were called to a boarding-house where
one of the lodgers had been threatening mischief
with a revolver. They found the lodger lying on
his bed with a revolver in his hand, and came to
the official conclusion that he was sleeping it off,
yer Honor. They shook the lodger up a bit, and
told him to come out of that; but the stupid fellow
lay there on the bed, just like a log of wood. Then
they hoisted him into a chair, and Constable J ones
put the handcuffs on. “ Walk down to the police-
station like a man,” said the numbers av the
foorce. But the lodger neither spoke nor moved,
so they put him oq a stretcher and carried him
down to the police-station. Not a limb had the
lodger stirred. “He must be bastly dronk,” says
the foorce. About this time the proprietor of the
boarding-house arrived, and kept on trying to
wake up the prisoner, until it appeared that lie
was getting rather cold and stiff. The poor fellow
was dead, in point of fact. There were a few
bullets in his body, and he had been as dead as
Lazarus all the time. Then they took the hand-
cuffs off the corpse and laid it out, and thought
they never knew such a bad case of insulting
behaviour.
* *- ■*
The Presbyterian churches of Victoria are
taking up a monster collection under the style of
“The Golden Offering.” This is a pious way of
“ putting the kibosh on ” threepenny-bits and
charity of that description. Golden offering is
very good.
# * *
A small and select “cockney” dimaer-
with pigs’ trotters and periwinkles standing out
in bold relief on the ‘ ‘ menoo occurred at a
snug Melbourne hostelry the other week. Printed
invitations to the banquet (which was a rorty suc-
cess of the chickaleeriest description) commenced
thuswise:—“The blooming Cockneys of the P.
and 0. inwite yer noble self to a ‘Go in,” to take
place on Friday next at the Bloomin’ Host’s Poor
Shop, wen a hoppertunity will be guv yer to Smack
yer Chaffer, Singe a Muffin, Sluice yer Ivories,
and Blow a Cloud.” The fact that lovely woman
would nut be expected to smack her chaffer on this
occasion was touchingly indicated in another para-
graph—“ The Covey of the Sluicery will not allow
any Bloke to bring a Cull or Judy with him for
fear he might douse the glim.”
* # *
Pauton dc Beerthirsfc, the Melbourne
magistrate, refused to accept evidence from a
witness whose face was dirty, and the trumpery
case before the court was consequently adjourned
for several days. Panton is a great man for
“ soap ” and water himself.
* # *
One solid Christian charity has lately been
established in Melbourne—viz., the Sunday
Dinner Fund. This at present limited concern is
run on humanitarian lines, hungry applicants
being encouraged to fill their stomachs without
respect to the condition of their souls.
They say that Melbourne Cathedral will
be open for business by May of next year. The
Tabernacle has been long a-building, and many of
the original subscribers have gone to that other
bourne which is not Mel, but a word rather
similar. Even one of the first 20 chorister boys
selected by Mr. Ernest Wood (the organist from
“home”) died a while back.
# % #
When a man waxes fat in Melbourne and
riches pour in upon him, even as they poured in
upon Job before ill-fortune gave his friends an
opportunity to bore him with good advice, he (the
fat-waxen man of Melbourne) adopts various little
signs and signals apprising the outer world of sin,
sorrow, and speculation that he is one of the city’s
mighty. If he is married his wife gives sump-
tuous suppers or otherwise; while he, on his own
account, secretly furnishes a private establishment
in one of the suburbs —one of the “ swell” suburbs,
mark you—and instals therein a maiden with aureo-
line locks and an aggressive wardrobe. Likewise ho
buys a high-flying dog-cart' and careers over the
surface of the earth at the tail end of a fast
O ! dear Letty Lind,
When first we got wind
That you had been wed,
and were taking
A Sunday Chow class,
We murmured, 4 4 Alas.
N ow, what a mistake they
are making;
Much better we knew
Than tothinkitof you—
Dear Letty, we swore
’twas a libel ;
Though dancers adored
May be fond of a lord,
They are not often
mashed on the
Bible.
If your “boy” you
espouse,
Not a parcel of Chows
Will y ou go a-teaching on
Sunday-
Fancy our Letty Lmd
Telling heathens they’d
sinned
In the sight of their own
Mrs. Grundy!
When that Silver King
Toes the scratch with
the ring
And successfully set your
fair cap is,
If it should come to pass
You are teaching a
class,
The scholars, no doubt,
will be 44 chappies.”
Ho ! ye Calvinists, acid and gloomy,
Ho ! ye sour-visaged children of Knox,
Here’s an opening, pleasant and roomy,
And cheap, for your ultimate box —
Take no heed of the words of the scoffer
At such things, but leave him to scoff;
This is plainly, we think, the right offer
For you to conclude with right off !
Give no thought to the chaff of the scorner
Who cares nothing what may befall
His poor bones —if they have the best corner
There is, or get no grave at all,
Be delayed by no Son of Perdition
Who jeers, and declares he’ll be shot
If it isn’t all rot that 44 position ”
Can matter to those who all rot!
A LOVE-SHOT.
“ Must have been in gaol ; spoke about hominy
at his last gasp. ”
“ Her brother, likely.”
“ Husband, maybe.”
Those are the opinions of the three loafers who
saw the man die. He was on a sofa in the shanty.
There were no beds except those of the shanty-
keeper and his family. Try, gentle reader, to
unravel the how, when and where of the fact
that a beautiful girl (she must have been a lady)
came to the call of a navvy, a surly, sulky, sullen
man, according to his mates.
The man was blasted ; I’m not swearing, he was
blown up in the cutting, because he stopped to
read a telegram that the butcher had brought out
to the line.
The words were simple, “ Be with you this even-
ing. Amor.”
You give it up ; and still the case is simple, so
simple; a simple case of simple obstinacy, mis-
taken for firmness and truth.
A year before the firing of the blast that
sent the victim’s body in the air, Ralph Dalrymple
was sitting iu front of the girl who came to the
shanty at Ledger’s Cutting, in time to hear his last
words.
They were then in Scotland, in a boat on Loch
Awe, pretending to fish. The girl had told him
he had no strength of mind, was unstable as
water-like Reuben, and could not, would not work
as long as he had his two hundred a year to live on.
“You’ll never say that to me again, Flora!
Next week I’ll sail steerage for Australia and
land with one pound. And I’ll STAX there till you
come to fetch me. I’ll draw no money fi'om
home. I won’t write. You’ll be told my address
at the ship’s agents in Melbourne and you’ll find
me working, for you’ll come, if you DO care for-
me — 4 Omnia vineit amor.’” Thus Ralph, and ho
kept his word.
There is no more to be told. The three loafers
were wrong. His only words were the Latin saw
just quoted. I don’t think much of either of the
lovers. Girls should mind what they say and how
they say it, and the same remark applies to men.
And this yarn is close up true (blackfellow for
founded on fact).
SCOTTY THE WRINKLES.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT & DISCOUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, KING STREET.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
a nd all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
lor Fixed Deposits ;
3 Months 5| per cent.
lor the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
L e nt. has been paid in addition to the above rates.
Communications from the country will be
Promptly attended to.
T. S, RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
What Scott’s Emulsion Has Done!
Over 2B Pounds Gain in Ten Weeks.
Experience of a Prominent Citizen.
The Califoenia Society fob the I
Suppression of Vice,
San Francisco, July 7th, 1886.)
I took a severe eold upon
my chest and lungs and did
not give it proper attention;
it developed into bronchitis,
and in the fall of the same
year I was threatened with
consumption. Physicians or-
dered me to a more congeni-
al climate, and I came to San
Francisco. Soon after my
arrival I commenced taking
Scott’s Emulsion of Cod Liver
Oil with Hypophosphites reg-
ularly three times a day. In
ten weeks my avoirdupois
went from 15S to 180 pounds
and over; the cough mean-
time ceased, c. R. bennett.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Robertson’s Whisk y. ™“
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows;
16 of lo each. So AS, and 70 Al.
Pamphlet* Crum tjio Agents, ALLT & CO., x.i~xiteci.
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
otter with a stunted youth sitting behind and
. • „ ’his toes on the tail-board. This is the
a imost unvarying'fashion—golden-haired friend,
,4-trotter, dog-cart, and boy in livery. With-
t these there is no salvation. No doubt it's a
° u , ible bore, but it’s “ the” fashion. It is one of
Ihe things wjiich must be done. A by-stander
• th a practised eye can immediately tell you the
'.' te at which a man lives in Melbourne by run-
■U his optic over these little details. Moreover,
ther© is a legend current in the City of Smells that
1 hen the recording angel comes along he’ll come
in a dog-cart with a spanking trotter and a “ tiger”
behind # * •
A misguided youth, named Lemons, got
■ t 0 a terrible squeeze at Christchurch, lately,
through dusting the floor with his wife, her
brother, and mother. In his defence the solicitor
iiid he never saw such a thin-skinned race as these
Lemons. # * *
A Toowoomba (Q.) gentleman from de
Vaterland, buried a wife on sth July last, and
married another on the 31st of the same month.
This is the most graceful compliment paid to the
fair sex for quite a long while.
# * *
Someone has invented an automatic horse-
feeder. How about an automatic baby-feeder ?
# ‘ * *
Three Victorian artists, Messrs. Roberts,
Ponder, and Smeaton, justly aggrieved at being
-tyled “impressionists ” —the word, to us, seems
the excuse of a slovenly and inferior artist for his
bad work— have decided to place a few of their
routings on view at Buxton’s gallery, in Swanston-
streeb The exhibition will be styled “The 9x5
Show of Impressions,” and is to be run in a
lavishly-artistic manner.
* * *
According to Georges Olinet, woman is a
DO or creature fit only to wear gowns and drink
weak tea. His latest novel, “Dr. Rameau,”
which we have just read, is particularly rough ou
her. The story is based on a war between the
conflicting principles of materialism and spiritual-
ism the former of which is embodied in Dr.
Rameau, and the latter in his spirituelle young
wife. Man-like, he tries to convert the woman he
loves to his materialistic views. He succeeds.
She becomes an atheist, and, being deprived of
THE KIDS AND THE SAUSAGES—AND THE DOG.
“LET ME CARRY THEM!” “NO, ME!”
A DIVIDED HONOR.
“THEY GOT THERE JUST THE SAME.”
the religious convictions wnich had hitherto been
her chief support along the disagreeable path of
duty, she rapidly goes to the dogs. From this
example Ohnet seeks to prove that a woman, who
is good in this life cniyheo ause she is afraid
being burnt in the next, vnU, the mstwt ®he loses
this fear, sin to her heart s i «o to the
Devil at a hand-gallop. This is not nattering to
the sex, neither is it true The woman who is
only good because terrified by the consequences oi
being bad, is not, and never was, genuinely *g°°dj
and the salvation or damnation of so weak-kneed
a creature is hardly worth a man of Ohnet’s calibre
worrying about.
# * #
Young Wood, who has come out from
London, as organist for the new Melbourne
Cathedral, plays at a suburban church on Sundays,
and makes a sensation. He is really a delicious
player. A chance ought to be given him to play
on Ihe Melbourne Town Hall organ, but David
Lee monopolises that instrument in an absurd
manner. David hugs it to his bosom, and gives a
yell when Summer!, Edison, Bradley, or anyone
else, wants to have a tune on the toy. It doesn t
play N ancy Lee or J ennie Lee, butalwaysDavidLee.
Lee got sick, but it made him get well again to
bear that somebody else had been praised for
tickling his pet. You have read about the way
Victor Hugo’s Quasimodo stuck to_ Notre Dame
Cathedral. That is just like David Lee and his
organ. His, mind you. Lee is like the great
American champion Pie-biter, who had a hand on
mm like a whale’s ear, and when he wafted it
towards a pie, that was his pie, you understand.
But people have to thank Lee for one thing. He
won’t play Governor Robinson’s caterwauling
music. You can hardly go to a concert nowa-
days without finding a sweet piece of Sir W.
Robinson’s jerked in. Then Robinson goes, of
course, and the consequence is that his patronage
is not worth having.
*' * *
At a Charters Towers (Q.) ball a lady,
representing the “Star of the New Crusade,”
“had them all on” thus wise:—The head-dress
was a silver tiara with a circlet in front enclosing
a star of four points over a band of blue, bearing
the words “New Crusade,” the whole being set
with crystals. The dress was a light muslin.
meant to represent the simple dress of the masses.
On her right arm was a cornucopia and round her
waist ran the motto “ Australia ” on violet ribbon.
Similar ribbons decked both sides, with the mottos
“Anti-Poverty” and “Plenty for All,” while
across the front of the dress ran the inscription
“Land for the People.”
Yellow stockings are fashionable. Men
worship the golden calf.—Ex.
Melbourne’s biggest book-stall man de-
clares that the popularity of a book depends more
on its cover than on what it contains. And what
a poor cover the poet himself generally has !
“ You must stop this smoking during busi-
ness hours,” said the head clerk. “ The boss says
he can’t appreciate his penny Swiss cigar while
you clerks are puffing your Melachrino cigarettes.”
—American.
Melbourne owns a firm of estate-agents
rejoicing in the beatific names of Peace and
Joy :
The engineer to the local Water and
Sewerage Board recommends the erection of a
20-million-gallon reservoir in Centennial Park,
Sydney, “ on the site originally designed for the
erection of a N.S.W. State House.” Thus does
water supplant wind.
Hyde Parke: ‘ ‘ There is Bourbon de Brad-
ley. Let’s turn down this street.” Pottz Poynt:
“I thought you and he were great friends.” Hyde
Parke : “ So we are ; but he moved into the suburbs
lately, and I don’t want to hear anything about
his garden. ” Yankee quip adapted,
Henry (married six months) ; “I fear my
wife’s love is cooling. She used to come to the
office two or three times a day, but she never
comes now. What shall Ido ? ” Prank : Have
you a type-writer ? ” “No.” “Then get one and
hire a pretty girl to work it, and your office will
be full of your wife.” — American.
The Melbourne papers are publishing
some horrible, hangdog Newgate Calendar portraits
called “Footballers.” The fault, of course, is
not in the men, but in the photographic camera.
The gallant young fellows part their hair in the
middle, and smooth it down with soap, nicely cut-
ting the fringes, but these malicious newspapers
will make them look like Yahoos,
Alfred Russell Wallace’s “ Darwinism ; an
Exposition of the Theory of Natural Selection,
with Some of its Applications,” will soon be
published. In the closing paragraph of his work,
Mr. Wallace says that he “finds that the Darwin-
ian theory, even when carried out to its extreme
logical conclusions, not only does not oppose, but
lends a decided support to, a belief in the spiritual
nature of man.”
The morning was very hot when Bluliy,
P.M., took his seat upon the bench. There was
only one prisoner present, an experienced drunkard,
well-known to His Worship. Turning to the
clerk after taking his seat, the P.M., while wiping
the perspiration from his brow, asked; is this
sot all this morning?” “Yes,” answered the
clerk, “this sot is all.” “Well, sir, said the
prisoner as he fanned himself with his dilapidated
hat, “ain’t this sot enough for you this morning?
Bluffy, P.M., immediately sentenced the wretch
to a month’s “ hard.”
The N.S.W. saints have got tired of pro-
viding gratis weekly a sermon for the “ stockman,
the miner, and the shepherd” in the columns of
the Down and Gumtree Jouenal. The editorial
note is: “A sermon cannot be published this
week, as there are no funds in hand. The cost of
printing is £2 per week and the regularity of the
sermon depends entirely upon the sufficiency of
the funds in hand.” Sermon-printing, after all, is
like sermon-preaching, a commercial speculation.
No collection, no sermon! No tick for the
Almighty, Alfred ?
Two of the N.S.W. railway-commissioners
have gained for themselves an immense popularity
among their subordinates through the fact that
when they see the latter in the street they don t
see them. The third, a man of grit and decision,
who is regarded by those with whom the com-
missioners come closely into contact as by far
the most brainy and human of “ the bosses,
adopts a different socio-official policy and does not
think that the fact of nodding in a “ how-are-you-
and-the-wife-and-family, old-man ” kind of way to
an inferior officer is at all likely to subvert discip-
line. Which his name is Pehon.
Dear Bulletin, — I am about to put to you
a case of which the first part happened to some
friends of mine, for I know both parties. What
has occurred 1 tell, and what might have occurred
I leave to you to tell. A young man living a mile
or so from a country town was on his way home
when he was hung up . That means, he was
garotted. His available property was a lantern
or carriage-lamp. That he has never seen since.
Audi alteram partem. They, the altera pars, were
practical “jokers” and policeman. I ask ; pup-
posing my friend of the first part, had carried a
dissolver and wounded one of those of the second
part, what would have been the result ? ) v itli
N.S.W. and Judge or Judge ■, hanging
in any case, for the honor of the foorce, a long term
of imprisonment. Naturally, nothing is plainer
than that the curfew should be re-established.
Yours, Scotty the Weinklee.
Riding in a Melbourne tram-car you may
see P. B. Clapp paying his 3d. He is the com-
pany’s manager, getting only £3OOO a year, same
as Speight, the head of all the Victorian railways.
He was promised £5OOO for an early rise when lie
came, but the Windsor railway accident stopped
it, and now there have been a lot more. Clapp
manages the trams more satisfactorily, though
they are so horribly dangerous, and the conductors
expect every minute to have to pull out their little
printed books of forms of inquiry for witnesses of
accidents. The Tramway Co. has still nearly
20 years to run before the concern will have to be
given up to the Melbourne Corporation. Make
hay while the sun shines. We expect the efficiency
largely to drop off towards the end of that 20
years. It will be like the cunning Hobson’s Bay
Railway Co., when they managed to band over
their worm-eaten stock to the Government.
Clapp is one of Melbourne’s level-headed men.
He was mixed up somehow in the old of
Cobb and Co., which furnished Australia with
coaches. The cabs ran every omnibus off the
road in Melbourne by the year 1869. Clapp and
his partners boldly started the Richmond line of
’busses, the pioneers of all the others and of the '
tramways. The whole job is still a goi’geous
monopoly, like the atrocious Melbourne gas.
at i i
According to the Lite Lady Bia. sey,
on the extreme summit of the Burmese pagodas,
in the place of honour, is almost invariably fixed
an English soda-water bottle, while the minor
positions of importance are occupied by tonic-
water bottles, which are of the same shape, but of
a blue colour. Ihe still more inferior places are
crowned by dark green square-shouldered seltzer-
water bottles,
Editor Bulletin.—Sir,-—Must we admit
that our trades unions are unable to supply the
remedy for the Mount Kembla colliers’ prosecu-
tion, &c., &c. ? If so, I, for one, doubt the
patriotism of any member of the present House of
Representatives-that is with the ability com-
bined. The trades out here seem to be only play 7 -
ing at unionism. „ What necessity is there for the
newspaper reports of all their little meetings with
Usfs £2 Sl
not so independent of their employers. When the
strike for the nine hours took (place in the North
of England, the employers had to go to Belgium
and France for labour. The employers of n.s.w.
have no need to go out of the colony, for more
tradesmen come out here, than can find work at
their trades ; so many are glad to take what work
they can get, while masters can employ, if necessary,
a number of handy men who can turn their hand
to almost anything. A federation of labour
outside of trade unionism, if it could be
brought about, might do something in the
direction indicated by you in the above article.
N-S-W is our Palermo-but where is our
Garibaldi—the man to declare, So long as there
are chains to be broken in Australia I will follow
my course or bury my bones there ?” A leader for
the working-class should be independent in more
ways than one, to be any good in this country,
The workers are not all on the same level like they
are in the old country. Sir, I don’t think I need
ri o Sw„!tkfewS'SS v‘«Jo‘d,?„d i
20 I could not write my name. I have been in a
few strikes, and have never submitted to a reduc-
tion of wages. I was a trade-unionist when I
landed in New Zealand, where the first job I got
was stone-breaking. There’s not a job I have not
done from ploughing, sowing, reaping, mowing, to
railway work, both in N.Z. and N.S.W. Now 1
am 50 years of age, and a Central Cumberland
fruit-grower, and that, sir, I think will do of the
history of youre respectfully, J.W.G.
A correspondent writes ;
“Perhaps the N.S.W. Postmaster-General can tell people
why a man who tore up about fifty letters at Waterloo
post-office not long ago, has been appointed stamper and
sorter over the heads of many deserving fellows at Sydney
G.P.0.?”
During the gay Pactolian days of the Mel-
bourne land-boom, Spenlow, of the firm of Jorkins
and Spenlow, climbed into a goldeu-hued notoriety
on the ladder of bogus speculation. The visitor to
Melbourne who passed some five-hundred-storied
gob of brick and stucco, and asked the reason of
its being, was pompously informed that it " a- for
the use and abuse of some thirty -six-syllabled oonv-
pany, backed up by the diamond-dusted hpenlow.
If he chanced upon some abysmal chasm m
the bowels of the earth, and enquired its
t herefore, he was told, with an air of triumph,
that it was a shaft promoted by a multitudinous
syndicate with Spenlow underneath it, holding it
- ]ike a second Atlas on his jewel-bedizened
s £ oulderg> Kow if that same traveller journeys
mk) the odoroug atm osphere of the queen city of
typhoid and speculative land-booming, and mur-
eV(,r gQ gently aught concerning the aurifer-
ous Spenlow he’s lugubriously 7 silenced with
“Oh ! that beggar be ! The bottom’s tumbled
out of his show long ago fate wascarri«l
away in the hurricane that Luret up the Land-
boom.” And thei traveller s heart bounds; with a
savage joy and he exults maliciously an
soulful albeit-secret glee for, truth thejiame
of the all-absorbing bpenlow was lieeommg
of silver-boom magnitude to his sensitn e lieait.
The firm that’s christened Peace and Joy
We trust no mundane cares annoy;
Peace does the “ joying,” signs the leases,
While Joy’s custodian of the “peaces.”
A Madrigal, also a Medley.
The Bondi of Brisbane is Breakfast Creek,
And the night hawks swoop over Eagle Farm I
They ruffle their plumage and strut and shriek,
But only pigeons sustain any harm.
Which reminds me of her and Hamilton Reach,
And a day last summer at Humpybong.
When I kissed the prints of her boots on the beach,
And danced with her shadow the whole night
long—
Danced to glad music, with sweep and with swing,
Set, like this song, to a galloping tune ;
Where star-lamps are flashing and sea-winds fcing,
I hollered her name to the listening moon.
And I looked for the smoke of an overdue boat,
Anri heard, as I fancied, her engines crash ;
And the lump of expectancy stuck in my throat,
As I chawed the ends of ray blonde moustache ;
Till I caught the gleam of a tartan scarf,
And the face of my dreamsinthe gath’ringgloom,
Just as the Cintra came up to the wharf,
With her foresail set on her stern jib-boom.
And the starboard lee scuppers grinned widely
and wild,
And the heart of that steamboat throbbed like
mine;
But I stifled my feelings and inwardly smiled
As I gulped deep draughts of ozouic wine.
For I knew by the hat with the seagull s wing,
And Directory gown of the latest fashion,
That the screw and the crew and the captain bring
The woman I love with a paramount passion.
A. LOONEY.
Woogaroo, 9th August.


Amusements.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS OP
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD and Miss KATE BISHOP,
in the Sparkling Comedy,
O O—3ST —XT' —XT-SS —X —O—IKT.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucioaulb.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, and EVERY EVENING
Until Further Notice, Grand Revival
of
Oliver Goldsmith’s Masterpiece,
Sixes Stoops -to Conquer.
The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Mr. Robert Brough.
New Scenery, Costumes, and Accessories.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
New opera house,
King And York Streets.
Lessee and Manager Mr. John Solomon.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. John Solomon’s English and Comic Opera
Company, under the Musical Direction of
Mr H. T. HARRISON.
ANOTHER UNDOUBTED SUCCESS!
Flotow’s Favourite Opera,
Produced under the personal direction of
MR. HENRY BRACY.
POPULAR PRICES:
Dress C rcle, 3s. ; Orchestra Stalls, 3s. ; Stalls,
2s. ; Pit, Is.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s.
JOE DAYIS Business Manager.
r^YCLORAMA.
(Opposite Redfern Railway Station.)
GE T T Y S 13 U R G !
The Largest Picture ever Painted!
The Greatest Exhibition on Earth!
A Revelation in Art. An Education in Warfare.
Admission, 25.; Children, Is.
Open Daily from 10 t.m. to 10 p.m. Sundays, 3to 10 p.m.
Explanatory Lectures at frequent intervals.
AT THE AUSTRALIAN WAXWORKS,
558 Georgb-Street, Sydney,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Mr. ERA N K M. CLARK’S
Latest Sensation,
Engaged by him during his recent tour round the
world from P. T. Barnum.
Jo-Jo,
THE RUSSIAN DOG-EACED BOY.
A Human with a Canine Head.
The Regal Ruler of Recreative Research. The
August Autocrat of Mankind’s Marvels.
JO-JO HOLDS RECEPTIONS DAILY
from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.
In conjunction with JO-JO many other Famous
Freaks and Novelties will be exhibited, including
URINES PERFORMING FLEAS,
From the Crystal Palace, London.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
rjIHEATRE ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Tub Famous ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
IN
PEPITA.
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay's Hotel.
Every
Evening
Every
Evening
TWTETROPOLITAN SKATING RINK
Harris Street, Ultimo.
d?" Nearest Rink to Redfern Railway Station.
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony. ISS
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a.m,- Ladies and Children only: Admis-
sion FREE; Skates, 6d.
2.30 to 5 pan.—Admission : Ladies, 6d., Skates,
6d.; Gentlemen, Is., Skates, Gd.
7.30 to 10 pan.—Admission to all, Is.; Skates, Gd.
L OOK OU T
FOR
Future Novelties.
FLO ORAGE FREE.
Pyrmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
Lessee and Manager ... JOHN K. GEE.
gJCHOOL OF ARTS.
—THE SYDNEY LAUGHING SEASON-
COMMENCES
Haturciay, njsws ♦< 17,
When the Greatest Living - Mesmerist,
Mr, T, A. KENNEDY,
Will appear in his
Mystifying and Marvellous Entertainment!
Approaching the Borderland of the Supernatural,
and providing, in addition,
TOT NO END OF LAUGHTER!
Fopular Brices, Box Office at Nicholson's.
Amusements.
L I T E SKATING RINK.
This Rink has the reputation of being
Best-conducted Rink in the Australian Colonies.
Admission ... One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets:
Gentlemen, 455.; Ladies, 40s. Season Skate Cheeks
for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen, 15s. ;
Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever Clamp
Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate Ticket
included, Gentlemen, 355. ; Ladies, 30s. Roller-
bearing, 15s. extra; Ball-bearings, £4 extra.
Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair : wholesale, 17s. 6d.
Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station every five
minutes for the rink ; patrons carried free.
Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bedford-
street, opposite the Rink.
—TUESDAY EVENING, 1 tim AUGUST—
Grand Floral Carnival and Complimentary
Benefit tendered K. A. Skinner.
Shipping.
TTNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW
M ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under; —
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and guide books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may he had on
application. *
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply to
FRED. W. JACKSON, Manager.
Offices: 15 Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
Good Chance for Syndicate to show how Money
can be made.
FOR SALE 250 Acres at £25 per Acre,
Situate in the delightful suburb of Youngtown,
three miles from G.P.0., on main road to Hobart,
capable of being cut up into eight miles of frontage.
High land. 3d. ’Bus, and close to St. Leonards
Railway Station. Town rapidly extending in that
direction.
SHEEP STATION, 3260 Acres,
adjoining Yorktown, on river Tamar, near Tas-
manian Goldfield and the Ilfracombe Paint Works.
Good road and Steamers Daily. 425. per acre.
Improved Farms, Town and Suburban Properties
For Sale.
w. r,. imiayirsih:.
Agent,
St. John Street, Launceston, Tasmania.
A Good Opening 1 for a Newspaper in a
large and rising district. For full particu-
lars, apply to
W. BiaNTELL,
Sec. Mtfiitalhion Progress Association,
Auctioneer a n tl G eneral Agent,
Montalbion, North Queensland.
rpHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
Sydney Branches :
G 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
__ Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. E. GIBLIN, Manager.
JOHN BUCKHAM,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Baker’s Cart Covers, Horse Rugs, Nose Bags,
Oiled Loin Cloths, Cab Aprons. Send to or call at
JOHN BUCKHAM,
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
WALTEE HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Rruoice, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrwo-
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flops. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Miscellaneous.
S. FREEMAN I SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
BATHO’S BAKING
ruarc
POWDERS,
plus,
Extract of Soap,
||incgar, Slacking,
&c., &c., &0.
Steam Works and Brewery ;
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
S Y D N E Y,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
Shipping.
D
IRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Commander.
cj s*
Waletta .. 4919 R. F. Briscoe ..Aug. 17 Aug. 23 Ag. 26
Victoria .. 6268 G. F. Cates ..Aug. 31 I Sep. C Sep 9
Ballaarat .. 4748 E. Ashdown .. Sep. 14 , Sep. 20 Sep 23
Parramatta 4771 R. G. Murray .. Sep. 28 'Oct. 4 |Oct. 7
Rosetta .. 3525 G. W. Brady .. Oct. 12 jOct. 18 Oct2l
Massilia .. 14918 C. Fraser ' .. Oct. 26 iNov. 1 iNov. 4
* Not calling at Colombo.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A, MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
-
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with tiie Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 MaCquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
JjjjJ’ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OP DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will he despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY)
£l4 lo £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
EOR SALE. A Quantity of Second-hand
NEWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
and bulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer. BULLETIN Office,
Furniture, &c.
N
E W TON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW BOOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EULL SUITES fur DINING-ROOM -SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
I ELF-AD. 11' ST IN G HAMMOCK" CHAIR?
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It isjfimplc yet ingenious in its
construction; works' automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
80s.; without Stand, 255,
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. Gd. extra.
D
RAWING ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
CCASIONAL TABLES in all WoodsT Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
■
WALNUT FALL
TV FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
ism
D ra w ing- ro om
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE RESIGNS.
NKW T O N & LAM B.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIFE and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELH ami
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
M
M
Austrian bent-
- WOOD
F U R N !. T V R E.
A. Vert Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
MATTRESSES, Woven Wire- I*«t
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.
E~ ASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Mirary or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
” ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
i restful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
for Invalids and Medical Men.
d
j > ED STEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Ne w ton & Lamb.
ď
SP R T N G MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
C~ HEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13. fid. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. Cd.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.: Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from
Ids. fid. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
N
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O'CONNELL STREETS.


:OUK. WINTER SALE IS NOW IN FULL SWING;
HORDERN am COMPANY’S SALES
£ Success !
€sj
LADIES DELIGHTED at the PRICE of our DOUBLE-WIDTH DRESS MATERIALS.
They could hardly believe that such Value was obtainable.
2NTe*w G-oods Opening Every
ALL AT KIDIOILOUS PRICES.
Call and See our BOYS’ K NIC KE It SUITS (Lined throughout), only Is. l id,
HORDERN and COMPANY
rile Popular Drapers of Sunny New South Wales,
486, 488, 49© GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next Koval Arcade, opposite Central Markets).
‘ A.d.am Bede’s ”
JiP One-tenth of “ Adam Bede's” Commission will lie handed to the Proprietors of Tire Bulletin' to be publicly
devoted to various charitable objects. The following is the list of events Now Open.
ii
siPißiisra- zhi^hstidic^ie 3 .
Run at Randwick, 24th August, 1889.
SUBSCRIBERS at TEN (10s.) SHILLINGS EACH.
Two Tickets for 20s. Every £1 invested has a chance of drawing Six Separate Prizes.
4,000
BO E X T R A CASH PRIZES ! 60
4,000 at 10s. each, Hawkesbi ry Handicap.
20.000 at 10s. each, Metropolitan Stakes.
20.000 at 10s. each, Caulfield Cup.
ALSO OPEN
Melbourne Cup,
j 50,000 at £1 each.
■ 20,000 at 10s. each.
\ 4,000 at 10s. each.
itrogrammes containing full particulars of the division of prizes and method of drawing willingly sent on applica-
tion. The members of the Press are always invited to all drawings. The rapid increase of “Adam Bede’s” business
is proof of the honest manner in which his Consultations are conducted.
ESr” All Subscribers must Register their letters io ensure safe delivery, and must enclose two addressed
envelopes and stamps for reply and result, and add ts. exchange to cheques.
Address ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. ABBOTT,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY.
The names of the Drawers of Horses will on no account whatever be divulged by “ Adam Bede,” except to the holder
of the ticket, until after the races have been run. gST" THE ONLY FAIR WAY OF DRAWING.
Tobacconists.
SMOKE
NOTHING
BUT
PIPES .
I
PIPES.
the best in the world.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street.
Pirst Prize-MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
|SS'
M. Melachrino & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
A ll the Courts a nd Embassies of Europe;
ALL TIIK
Leading British and Continental Clubs
and Regimental Messes.
Have the Largest Sale in the World !
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best.
Sole Agents :
& ROWKT.
14 Barrack Street, Sydney.
p r | ce sll PP'>ed T>ircct in quantities of 101 and upwards.
No e Uigarette . .. 85/- per 1000 ; 0/- per 100.
• ••• oo;- „ 7/- „
e
Ponied b Y 0 h!? an^r P °f the town or country, if accom,
recehp n/ 1 " 8 or U. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage
n ' e Prompt attention.
Medical.
SMITH, U.S.A.,
MEDICAL EXPERT—
hi PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS;
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEOEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours ; ... From 11 a.m. till 1 p.m.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
PULVERM ACKER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Eorty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free..
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Colli xs-street West, Melbourne.
—THE -
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance) Society,
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
sines 1873.
cm
CJ
J
II
is
Mead Office
—TUB—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled, fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
lion. George Thornton, M.L.A.,
Chairman.
■ Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
THE AUSTRAL RANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
(PHILLIPS & CO).
Reserve Capital Account £250,000
Reserve Fund .. 61,431 Id 10
Total Assets over Liabilities 311,431 10 10
—-0
Head Office .... .... Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne Office .... 404 Collins Street.
London Office .... .... 1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Brandi Offices
JN.S.W.: Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
(Victoria: Lara.
Rates for Fixed Deposits over £3O ;
7 h per cent, for 3 Years
7 „ 12 Months
G per cent, for G Months.
Balaneo Fheeta and further information may ho obtained on application to
'<> Castlorcagh Street, Sydney.
•f • S. 3F*. Cowell,
Manager.
ftAWSC
*•«.<
DAWSON'S
Sole for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00.,
(Opposite 0.P.0.)
0 108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
£
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
STB-A G ENTS WAN T E D
IN THR
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.


Tobacco, etc.
IT IB
A Fact Indisputable
THAT AT
Men’s
NEW SOUTH WALES
BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
you can get everything required for fitting
your saloon in any style at a small advance
on London and New York prices, or they
will fit up your saloon at ' short notice
Prom ,£lO Upwards.
A Largs and Varied Stock
OF
Hairdressing Gliairs,
MIRRORS, HOT-WATER URNS,
AND
Saloon Furniture Generally.
Razors, Scissors, Combs, Brushes,
STROPS,
Fuff Boxes and Fuffs,
WIG BLOCKS,
WEAVING STICKS & SCREWS,
PLAIT-MAKING MACHINES,
Curling, Pressing, Pinching and other Irons,
HAIRDRESSERS’ STOVES,
Shampooing Taps, Shampooing Basins L Apparatus,
Hatrcuttino Cloths,
SALOON TOWELS, NECK BRILLIANTINE,
Shaving and Clothes Brushes,
ANTIQUE OIL, the most useful for making
Lime Juice and Glycerine,
EC air Elixir,
PURE AMERICAN BAY RHUM,
RAZOR HONES, &c.
Razors k Scissors Ground k Sot
FOR THE TRADE.
-+-
X Town and Country Hairdressers are informed that
we engage for them Competent Assistants, and , before
sending them, are thoroughly tried by us.
Wholesale Agents for the Celebrated
fr 5 5
Razors & Scissors,
graigV aitken
ARE ALSO
IMPORTERS OF EVERY KIND
OF
Tobacco, Cigars and Cigarettes.
And have an Immense Stock of
Tobacconists’ Goods of every Description.
Wholesale
Agents
for
[Army Si Navy Tobacco Si Cigarettes
IT. C. Williams’ Golden Eagle Tobacco
I Vulcan Tobaccos and Pipes
iMy Sweetheart Cigarettes
Country Orders, enclosing P. 0.0., attended to
without delay. Any Goods not in Stock at once
procured.
♦—
Note our Address:
CRAIG & AITKEN,
(Next to Priddy, the Hatter),
Tobacco and Cigar Merchants and Importers,
680 A 082 GEORGE STREET
(Between Liverpool and Goulburn Streets),
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
wans
WHS
i
rrt
m
CHIP
FROM OUR COLLECTION OF OLD PRINTS.
THE CASTING OVERBOARD OF JON AH.—Adapted.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next yon bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Floor, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had' from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & ■ 0 0.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
I) A R LING HARBO UR,
wO OL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, c be.
ATJCTIOKEEE-S.
DR. SFEEIFt’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
42 Margaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this —when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles m
detail he treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. , Charges moderate. H. J.
siph-fr MD 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a m to 12 am.;2 to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
m
.
M
°'CTu
■37 0 ”52" O "O' IKT GS- MEKT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
rnjTE directions contained in this little treatise will be
-L found of immense..benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will he required , as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written 10
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life —overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance —
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
'Ei.ECTRIC PHOTO-ENC. C 3 j .B ORIDnE-ST..,SYDNEY-
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
* if THORPE ... ... ... PROPRIETOR.
JONES 9 SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just LAUDiura.
farleigh, nettheim & CO.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYDMEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
( x )
at <3O Tmnorters of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &o. ; and of the following Special Lines: Peerless Gloss. Satin Polish, Nubian
Blacking Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
Sffi? SggSS UMH
CONSU
nM
D«
r
" i
mmsd
«E==.=
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to lus
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un.
happiness t han any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
■smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the how T els, specks before the ejes,
bashfulncss, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he lias
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of Cd. in
stamps he will send secure from observation m a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
| BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the privateer
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expcnce. Tins
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you he perfectly well its general inform-
lion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical a
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary fop the cure of NEK-
YOUS DEBTLITY. Should you require medica
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan
gerons, it would be advisable for you to sit do"' 1
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor
detailing every experienced symptom. He w
on receipt of such a letter, write you, prompt!
and courteously, a candid and straightfonia r
oponion of your case. If you do not think
understand the case, send for his famous
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclose'
in the volume will bo found a list of carefulb'P' c
pared questions, which will, in all probated t
assist you materially in describing your ailmf
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedy
and never prescribes mercury under any circll
stances. The moment letters are carefully
used and answered they are destroyed by '
and patients may rest assured that their c®
will remain a secret between the doctor
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully trea
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia,'
has permission from at least 10,000 person
show their written evidence of his success,
communicat ions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
•7 Spring Stree 1
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
U'l'id"'
Be sure to mention this paper when
CONSULTATION DIU


Business Announcements.
BEALE & COMPANY’S
Iffew Warehouse.
cry
m
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM,
“ Oh, I feel so Mondayish ! ” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day” is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions.
very many of our valued customers to whom we have
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments; and all this is heaped up for the p«or
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
(laughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing-
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how ? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “ tired.”
Now, as purveyors of household implements, we have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assuredly
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is nob
scotched but killed.
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would he a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or are
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale Patent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows :
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “dolly,” which is worked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water' into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ;
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspended in the water, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, however careful. When the wash-
ing is done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
When you buy a Machine of ’any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
482 & 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The i
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the j
splendid Hapsburg PianoSj Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
M for casli less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
Dr Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South
Wales and Queensland.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24: CLARENCE; STREET, SYUKTEY.
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
ns, phitohs, mmm,
PONY r CARTS, &e., &c.
Express k Lumber Waggons*
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills ,
Agricultural Machinery.
v j
i
m
yjM'lt ONLY
S*
G
*
**
C
*
*
*
siM' v
vj
%
MURDER!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest selected Virginia
crops by P. W. Saywell, of 6
Park-street, it will
ARREST
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure brands now on
the market. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the numer-
ous poisons
IMPRISONED
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, and obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Retail from
F + W + Saywell & Co + *
6 Park Street,
SYDNEY.
=SBB
Photog
Viws “
te\
as. islands; ;; Sh/w q
3I6,GEOHGE§T^Si)\
I SYomY. \ x
LICHTNER & CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
-STOC K~
IMPORTERS.
K.
Mi*
v»>
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET.
BRISBANE:
9 ELIZABETH STEEET.
SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE •»
—OF —
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
):(
CHEAP AMATEUR OUTFITS.
Drapery.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Pitt Street.
I
Sporting.
Square & Compass
CLUB.
5Si
56U GEORGE STREET,
ONLY.
MONSTER j"
Consultations IjSi
ON
The Great Metropolitan Stakes^
Run on THURSDAY, September 24, 1889.
5000 SUBSCRIBERS at ss. EACH.
For 5 s
{ FIRST HORSE
■{ SECOND HORSE
( THIRD HORSE
£5OO 'j
£250 -
£125 J
For 5s
STARTERS £175. NON-STARTERS £2OO.
ALSO OPEN ON
C AULFIEL33 CU P.
5000 at ss. Each.
Melbourne Cup. 10,000 at ss. Each.
Address—
Square 8l Compass Club,
Care of M. Pa l ar,
501 i GEORGE STREET ' 501?,
SYDN.E Y.
•• TATTERSALL’S ”
Monster Consultations
Are conauctea on an tne principal racss through-
out the year.
See Evening News “ Brevitiesfor full par-
ticulars, or write to “Tattersall,” care if Geo.
Adams, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
s years Western Australia has made very
great progress, and, now that the success and per
manency of the various Coal, Gold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerati v<
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
PERTH,
the Capital City of the Coming Colony, whilst
it is Cheap.
£lO BUILDING SITES! £IO
Ten Pounds. Ten Pounds.
large Allotments. Good Freehold Building
land. Splendid Position. Torrens’ Title.
City Allotments from £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy Terms. Dis-
count for Cash. Buyers of Five Lots receive ai
Title EREE OE CHARGE.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad’-
dress on application by
The Intercolonial Investment Co,, Limited,
96 BATHUEST STEEET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager..
DOWS
EMBROCATION
li
w i
pi
l\ F\/Ff
'^EVER^WHERE'
d
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street.
SYDNEY.
IP. SHEOEDEE*
LIVERY. BAIT, LET-OUT AND OOMMTS
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description fnt
Sale or Hire ; also, pood reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.


Uew Zealand
AND
SOUTH SEAS EXHIBITION, 1889-1890.
THIS Exhibition, which is to be held at
Dunedin, the centre of the railway system
of the most populous portion of the Colony, will
be opened on 20th November, 1889, and will be
closed about the middle of April, 1890. It has
been decided to admit thereto samples of the
natural productions, manufactures, and works of
art from all Colonies (British and Foreign), where-
soever situated, as well as from islands under
British rule in the South Pacific. Judges will be
appointed by the Commissioners, mainly upon the
recommendations of the exhibitors themselves;
and certificates of first, second, and third order of
merit will be awarded to such exhibits entered for
competition, as may be deemed entitled to such
marks of distinction.
The Government of New South Wales has de-
cided that this Colony shall take part in this
Exhibition by showing specimens of the Minerals,
Timbers, Wools, and Wines produced within its
boundaries, but will not interfere with the
arrangements of private exhibitors for the display
of other descriptions of goods. An exception will,
however, be made in the case of inventions,
machines, or processes likely to be of service in
developing the resources of the Colony, assisting
its industries, or stimulating the enterprise of the
people. A limited number of exhibits of this class
will be received by the Commissioner, who will
forward them to Dunedin, and arrange for their
display free of- cost to the owners. It will be
necessary, however, before they can be accepted
on these terms, that formal application should be
made through the prescribed Form of Entry, and
that the Commissioner should signify his ap-
proval. If not otherwise disposed of r by direc-
tion of the owners, such exhibits will lie returned
to Sydney in the like manner after the close of
the Exhibition.
Any further information desired by intending
exhibitors and necessary forms may be obtained
on application to the undersigned. Applications
must be lodged on or before 3lst August instant,
after which date none can be entertained; and
exhibits, packed ready for shipment, must be deli-
vered to the Commissioner not later than 30th
September next,
OSCAR MEYER,
Commissioner for N.S. Wales,
New Zealand and South Seas Exhibition,
73 Phillip-street, Sydney.
JJONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS op AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Clift to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, (id. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d.
MR. F. R. RAYNER is not authorised to
canvass or collect on behalf of The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Limited.
MR. F. R. RAYNER is requested to com-
municate with Manager of The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Limited, without delay.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works. Sydney,
August 13, 1889.
mENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Bridge, Wilcannia, Darling River,
Ironwork. Cont. No. 1 (time
extended)
Bridge, Darling River, at Wilcan-
nia (erection). —Cont. No. 2.
(Time extended)
Mortuary Hospital for the Insane,
Newcastle
Additions Wingham Post and
Telegraph Office (fresh tenders)
Erection of Lockup at Jugiong
Bridge, Eight-mile Creek, Road
Armidale to Grafton
Bridge, Billabong Creek, Road
Yathong Railway Station to
Nowrame
Additions, Post and Telegraph
Office, Casino
Fencing, &c., Police Buildings,
Young
Drainage Works, Bathurst Gaol
Purchase of Old Iron, Fitzroy
Dock (deposit of £2O required
with tender)
Bridge, Musk Gully Creek, Road
Hillgrove Station to Grafton
Bridge, Mummulgum Creek, Road
Casino to Tabulum
Supply and Erection of Cargo
Shed, &c., East Side Circular
Quay j
Harbour and Rivers Annual Con-
tracts, Supplies, &c., 1890 (£5
deposit required with tender) ;
Anchors and Chains
Awnings, Sails, Tents, &c.
Brushes, Brooms, &c.
Castings
Cement
Copper and Lead Pipe
Engineers’ Stores, No. 1
Engineers’ Stores,'No. 2
Hardwood, Colonial Pine, &c.
Indiarubber Goods, Hose, &c.
Kauri Pine
Leather Belting, Hose, &c.
Oils, Paints, &c.
Plate, Bar Iron, &o.
Rope, &c.,
Ironmongery, &c.
Steel
Ship Chandlery
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Ma-
terials
Wrought Iron Angle Bucket Links
Wrought Iron, manufactured in
New South Wales
Wrought Scrap Iron Forgings
Supply of Coal at Sydney
Supply of Coal at Wollongong
Supply of Coal at Lake Macquarie
Conveyance of Coal from Newcastle
to Clarence River
Ditto ditto ditto Macleay River
Ditto ditto ditto Hastings River
Ditto ditto ditto Richmond River
Ditto ditto ditto Bellinger River
Ditto ditto ditto Manning River
Ditto ditto ditto Tweed River
Ditto ditto ditto Nambucca River
Ditto ditto ditto Cape Hawke
Ditto ditto ditto Camden Haven
Ditto ditto ditto Lake Macquarie
Ditto ditto Wollongong to Shoal-
haven
Ditto ditto ditto Moruya
Bridge over Monk’s Creek, Road
Grafton and Copmanhurst to
Apple Tree Flat
Bridge over Deep Creek, Road
Casino to Sandy Creek
Supply and Erection of Pumping
Engines, North Shore (contract
No. 50)
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Wednesday,
August 28,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
September 11,
at 11 o’clock,
Wednesday,
September 25,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
Nov. C,
) at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
General Post Office, Sydney,
12th August, 1889.
Attention is directed to Gazette Notice
inviting Tenders for
Conveyance of Mails between Timbriebungie and
Tenandra ; Fassifern and Toronto.
Tenders will be received up to the 4th proximo,
and must be addressed to the Secretary to the
Post Office, Sydney.
DANIEL O’CONNOR.
Miscellaneous.
BURGLARY.
Tlx 9 British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
ST. ELIZ ABETH STREET. SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householder*
against lows by BURGLARY.
Rail's Low.* Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
\V. J. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
mamm.
Burglars Beware!
GB. MODEST undertakes to say that the
• most enterprising Burglar will hesitate in
his Burgling if people will only supply themselves
with his ALARM GUNS, which can be fixed in
any position in gardens or elsewhere.
He has also Revolvers of all the leading makers
of America, England and the Continent.
Guns and Ammunition of the Best description.
FARMER’S EXCHANGE, ALBURY.
PA. BUCKHORN & CO., Produce Mkr-
• chants, have always on hand largo
supplies of Oats, Chaff, Potatoes, Onions, Butter,
Cheese, and Eggs.
Chaff in any quantity sold in trucks at Albury
Station according to sample.
Orders Promptly Attended to.
“What is Homs without a Picture?”
Xi. BEENTASCOUI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
|£EEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE SADDLE
Company, Limited.
Factory and Office ; 227 Castlereagh-st. Sydney.
(Late 245.)
NEW STYLE OF TREE.
JSPt The Company is now prepared to manufacture ail
kinds of Saddles. Any infringement of the patent will l>
prosecuted. No Saddle genuine without our Trade Marie
ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary.
Head. ! Read ! Read !
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price One Shilling
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland).
ITammoqijette
Reclining
fjHAIR
COMFORT FOR THE WEARY; THE INVALID’S FRIEND;
And a Haven of Rest For All.
i m
■ .>Kr « ''ms
v;e
i ■&
■« W /, ■, ■
ISB
m
HK ■
HIGHLY RECOMMENDED
—BY THE— J-r
ME7)I C A L PTvOV E S SI ON.
Especially Suitable for Oonsumptive Patient*
Comfort, Convenience & Durability
Is iliv llvsiil oral mu.
Patentee:
R. 33. JOKTBS,
e BRIUGE STBEET, STDNB' 7
Melbourne:
PETRE FARRELL Si CO.,
•>m COLLINS STREET.
Brisbane;
J. P. Powell, Stanley Street,
BRISBANE SOUTH.
The Revolt of Labour.
Hitherto the tendency of the age has been de-
cidedly utilitarian, as the word is vulgarly under-
stood. Men have been driven by the scourge of
necessity to work from morn to dewy eve, and
then, snatching a hasty morsel, have thrown them-
selves to the ground panting besides the smoking
machine, at once their tool and {heir tyrant. White
slaves during the last 50 years have been content
to pursue unhappiness and discomfort for a morsel
of bread in order that other men, the pets of op-
portunity and circumstance may lie softly, dine
and drink tenderly, and gird themselves with the
silks of India and the purples of Tyre. B it wo are
gradually changing all that. Mon are beginning
to understand that the truly
UTILITAR I AN
includes the Beautiful and the Good, and that
the social conditions which allow one man to be
a glutton and compel his brother to be a starveling,
are altogether unlovely, and fraught with injury
to the whole human race. This being understood,
the Revolt of Labour has commenced. . Education
has liberated the minds of the toilers, and now
they demand the Emancipation of their bodies.
The Eight Hours’ system has struck a tremendous
blow at
WHITE SLAVERY.
The man whose working hours were from 12 to
18 daily had no time for study, no opportunity to
consider his position, to concert protective measures
with his brother serf. Now, under the banding
together of labourers, hours are shortened, men have
leisure to think, to act, to combine. They have
some opportunity of straightening their backs, and
acquiring in an upright position that manly inde-
pendence formerly denied them. Their hours
being shorter their eyes are opened to the other
disabilities under which they labour, and not a
moment too soon. No longer are they satisfied to
huddle up in stifling, smoky city streets with the
odour of the ash-bin and the gutter for ever in
their nostrils, with the rattle of drays, the whirr of
machinery for ever in their ears, the weight of
mighty buildings for ever resting on their fore-
heads and pressing them down into the earth.
The workers are beginning to recognise what
their purblind rulers have either failed to recog-
nise—or, recognising, have failed to make allowance
for—the fact that this herding together like swine
in an evil atmosphere and confined space, is not
only a fertile source of disease, but that these
hovels of the poor are perfect seed-plots of im-
morality. How, we ask, could it fail to be other-
wise. Therefore, the worker, feeling in his breast
the workings of
MOTHER NATURE,
yearns for a little white cot, surrounded by a
garden plot, girt by green meadows, umbrageous
groves, and with no towering buildings to blot
from his view, sun and sky. His instincts,
quickened by education, prompt him to struggle
for suer, a home, but with his limited means, alas !
it seems impossible. A home in a suburb he may
hire, it is true, but it is not his own, and has been
run up on the old criminally-dirty principle of
placing as many living beings upon the smallest
slice of earth ; and rents are high, and the house is
damp, being built on a swamp, and so his cravings
for light, air, quiet, and Haitiness are still un-
satisfied.
BROTHER-WORKE R,
the remedy is in your own hands ; if the secret is
given to you, it but remains for you to make the
application. Certain land-owners, not altogether
philanthropists, but imbued with the enlightened
spirit of the age, have founded, six miles from
Sydney, fifteen minutes’ walk from Burwood, and
within five, minutes’ walk of the station on the
shortly-to-be-construoted Liverpool loop-line, a
MODEL SUBURB.
It is beautifully situated. The ground—rich,
black soil —slopes gently down towards the waters
of Cook’s River, and the Estate, clear of timber, is
surrounded in every direction by forests of the
healthy Eucalypti. The Estate has been cut up
into j-acro allotments and is intersected by main
roads, 99 feet wide, tree-planted on both sides,
while the lesser avenues are everywhere in width
fid feet, and the whole have been kerbed and
metalled, while the footpaths are properly con
structed. There need be no difficulty for any wage,
earner to obtain a little home on this beautiful
Estate which, by the way, is called
HARCOURT,
for the payments are merely nominal, being at the
rate of £1 7s. Gd. per month, with no risk of for*
feiture when payments are delayed, and an induce,
ment to build and settle down in the shape of
Building Bonuses in value
TEN THOUSAND POUNDS (£10,000).
This system also includes life assurance. The man
who purchases an allotment on the Harcourt Estate
practically insures his life for the full value of his
allotment with payment of the first instalment, for
should he drop dead ten minutes after, the pro.
perty or its monetary equivalent becomes the
heritage of his heirs without further payment. In
the limited space of this article all the advantages
of buving on the
HARCOURT
Estate cannot be detailed. We should advise those
interested to write at once to the Austral Banking
and Land Proprietary, G Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, for a descriptive pamphlet and a plan
of the estate, then armed with a free railway-pass,
and on arrival at Burwood, seated in the buggy of
the local agent, he or she may spend an afternoon
in the inspection of the property and the selection
of some spot whence the approach of the sunset of
existence may bo placidly viewed, and where, sur-
rounded by a happy and healthy family, thought-
ful parents may feel that life has not been lived
in vain, and that they have done what lay in them
to the building up of a mighty nation in the
SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
“Explorer” Stanley, we hear by cable,
"is journeying towards Zanzibar accompanied by
Emin Bay and 9000 followers laden with enormous
quantities of ivory.” We hear of Stanley because
his plunderings and peddlings are bigger than
those of any other African trader and trapper.
His work of murder, oppression, and theft is done
on a large scale, and lias been well advertised.
These are your modern heroes. The big rascals
are glorified, the small fry get jugged.
A naval question of some importance,
particularly to the victualling department, having
been raised—namely, What are the dining powers
of a British midshipman ? - Captain Beaufort has
volunteered his personal experiences. Ho says ;
“1 had eaten my dinner at the midshipman’s
table and a very good one, as 1 always did.
After it the captain's steward came up and said,
‘ The captain's compliments, and he desires the,
favour Of your company to dinner.’ ‘ But I’ve
dined,' said I. ‘ For mercy’s sake don’t say that,
sir, ’ said he, ‘ for I shall be in a scrape if you do !
I ought to have asked you this morning, but I
forgot. ’ So I thought 1 must go ; and two hours
afterwards I did go, and I dined, and I think I
made my usual good dinner. Just as we rose from
table, a signal was made by the admiral to send an
officer on board, and as it was my turn, I had to
go off in the boat. When I got on board the
admiral’s ship, the admiral said to me, ‘ Ah, Mr.
Beaufort, I believe?’ ‘Yes, sir,’ said I. ‘Well,
Mr. Beaufort, ’ said he, ‘ the papers you are to
take back, will not be ready this half-hour; but I
am j ust sitting down to dinner, and shall be glad
of your company.’ Now, as to a midshipman’s
refusing to dine with the admiral, there are not
the words for it in the naval dictionary. So I sat
down to my third dinner; and I got back to my
ship just in time for tea.” Good, old John Bull!


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
loan & Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL - - - £500,000.
•
Sydney Office ;
Corne r of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney
Melbourne Offices :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
(Next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices : ... Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills _of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by at very reasonable rates of
interest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months ... 5 per cent.
Six „ ... 6 „
Twelve „ ... 7 „
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months,
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, II per cent.
by order op the board op' directors.
BUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
pe Anglo-(Australian investment,
finance & Sand Company, Std.
Capital Paid-up ~ .. £100,00,1
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ~ eo’ooo
Head Office: - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P
Vice-Chairman: F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office 31 lombard Street, E.C.
Chairman: Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
mHIS Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
1 result of wise and enterprising management, has won
ts way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
Deposits received in Large or Small amounts
either at call or for fixed periods, hearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES ... Manager
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187/,.)
CAPITAL
£200,000,
Sydney Office:
301 PITT STREET
AGENCIES m London and throughout Australia.
"■ Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits 3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent.; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager.
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATE
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office; 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
James Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay Hek RY Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney ;
u. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
nnHE&Ei WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
beanng stone of every description.
ff nii ie vß plloation of chlorine gas for the saving of
a. . htherto known to exist in refractory ores
U unwork bie and unpayable by the old process
ot treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
® ca l°ulated to give fresh impetus to the
colonies™ 011 * ° f * l6 aurifer ° us industries of the
the 8 T ll SUpply a long-felt want, and
virk T m fee assure d that their efforts to pro-
a Ppreoiated BanS ° f teSting ° reS will be & enera Hy
trp^o^u^ l1 *^ 68 not less than one ton will be
and of the l atest known scientific methods,
re ? orfc an , d assa y & iven by competent
TtU? 6acb P arce l'
gold Ll orka (which comprise the most modern
culorinatkl a , pplia n Ge s /or amalgamating and
aiialvtinoi 01 ! 1 ’! .with a complete assay and
direction Ishatory) will be under the immediate
, Mert , on > who has success-
sive and
Harden.
iillv all j , Merton, who has sue
similar ?) nd developed an extensive
“QUar establishment at Cnnningar, near Ha!
for further Information, apply-
W. B. FLETCHER.
"lie Compagnoni Catering Co.
GUNSLER’S cape
IBS, 164 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
J t • GTJNSLER desires to intimate that in
Sairi ®° Bij equence of the unathorised use of his
Cohere, it is necessary that all orders for
vjfj ® or Compagnoni Catering Co., be
’ J. B>. Gunaler, 160, 162, and 164 Pitt-
**' r - General Manager.
Miscellaneous.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Heller glour and grain gtcrc6,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunt on’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED—-
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
_ Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
Leoward
General Business Sc Hotel Broker,
No. 8, Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite G.P.O).
—Nothing but Straightforward Business Done.—
No Sale No Charge.
leoetabd G-WNrnbr.
Miscellaneous.
The British himl .Vnv South Wales Investment
iiiul Finanela! Co., Limiinl.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
TJILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
* ’ Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .... 10 per cent.
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE RE 0.
S TUDY ECONOMY
a> d
Have your Umbrella Frames
Ke-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Egual to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool it Bathurst Sts .
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PASS
EVERY FEW il minutes
Hotels.
a
EVERT FEW ffl MINUTES
« 3
SMBS
i
E::r=!
f
CE HOTEL
m
::
;• * ■'
mm
'' ■
J.A.WILSON
PKQPRiETOP
,G.W.CLARE
Tie PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is—
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Tlirees Hnndlreci Magnificent Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY,
£T Each Eloor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies,
TWO PASSENGER OTIS LIFTS
-M-
Ladies’ Boudoir, Drawing, Smoking, and Reading Rooms.
)-(
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook & Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms : Single Bedroom, 2s. Gc3L per Migb.t.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
■ ■ ■> 3'OC- ■ '
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &0., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
Tie Briglton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on die Shortest N otice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchS
JJmner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs - KILMINTSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
IjOJJG’S imperial hotel,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
thomas Wallace,
Proprietor.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured!
The Greatest Success
of Modern Times.
{
CONSULT
I All Chronic Diseases
\ are Curable.
MR. H. E. KUGELMANW,
CONSULTING ECLECTIC,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases.
00 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering- from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[copy.]
Glenhope, 19th July, 1888.
To H. E. Kugblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
18811, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of t for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four mouths, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement 1 did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I- was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating
m.e for five mouths, lie honestly informed me that my case
• was incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any
longer, and he advised me not to take any more chemists’
medicines, as all I had taken for the' last 15 months was
poison. 1 then pressed him for a true statement of my
case, and he very reluctantly informed me that I was
suffering from Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that
1 was quite incurable. During- the time, I was attended
by the above doctors, I was not able to lie down in my
bed, and expectorated many quarts of blood and matter
from my lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this
time I saw your advertisement and decided to consult you,
which I did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished
me by informing- me minutely of the exact nature of my
complaint without my giving you any ? information, and
even without your having sounded or examined me. But
my astonishment was greatly increased when you told me
that you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite
agreement, which 1 gladly availed myself of. After having
taken your medicines for a month I was considerably
worse ; expectorating very much, and throwing up several
pieces of skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of
my hand; but after this crisis I commenced to improve
very fast. After three months treatment the expectora-
tion and cough entirely left me, and I had gained over
two stone in weight, a result which my friends considered
little short of miraculous, as all expected I would soon
di : and from that time (thanks to your most wonderful
skill and ability) I have not felt any return of my com-
plaint, and my lungs are as strong as ever they were, and
I can do as g ood and as hard a day’s work as I ever did.
I am sure that people diseased and suffering should avail
themselves of your treatment, and not delay as I did until
I was given up to die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours
frank e. e. knight.
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in'the event of Curb
not being Effected.
DEUr'eso Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ Light anti Life,”
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &e.’ A copy of this book will
be sent Dree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTED STREET, SYDNEY.
BEO IT S’ INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent ur chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERRE,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST A ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation:
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Hoad
(opposite University),
S Y D KT E Y.
Business Announcements.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allk'nds of Tinsfor Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also allkinda
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
o
A. Trial S olioiteci.
F. C. NICHOLAS & Co,,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 736
HA YMABKBT.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621. 539. 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Calces, &c. f Made to Order.


Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of FORTY years’ standino has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
Anything that Dingman’a Electric Soap
fails to purify has not yet been discovered. It is
the one peculiar combination which performs its
mission in the extinction of dirt, grease, paint and
stains from any kind of clothing, and upsets the
old-time theory about washing-day miseries. It
is no longer necessary to boil garments to pulp or
rub them to rags to get the dirt out. Dingman’s
Electric Soap prolongs their usefulness, increases
their beauty, and materially assists the user in
attaining the length of days attributed to
patriarchs.
1
K
el
O
N
,N
s
T
o
U
/\OENTS .
DELISSAs. PHILLIPS
3xJßakra,ck Street.
Boots and Shoes.
ď
đ
d
ď
T3a.e Co-Operative
Boot Making Company
(Opposite David Jones and Co.),
376 (JEOR&E STREET, SYDNEY.
H. MILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER,
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
'Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MUSICAL.
"PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
A Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED YAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
EOR SALE. —A Quantity of Second-Rand
Newspaper Type in Case and Bulk. For
particulars apply to the Printer, Bulletin office.
FOR SALE.—Second-hand Qnad-De m ,
Folder, by Harried; Cheap. Apply The
Bulletin office.
Business Announcements.
FISH I FISH! FISH 1
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
To Fish Consumers in Town & Country.
WE ABE PREPARED TO SUPPLY
Pish Frozen in Solid Blocks of Ice,
the blocks containing 301 b., 151 b., and 101 b. assorted fish
Price, Bd., 4d., and sd. per lb., according to the kinds of
fish desired.
ICE GRATIS! ICE GRATIS!
Blocks delivered free at Railway Station, packed so as to
carry to any part of the colony, for 3s. 6d. per block extra.
Instructions sent with each package how to treat the
fish so that they will keep for several days. The fish are
obtained direct from the fishing ground, and guaranteed
perfectly'fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will be Forwarded on receipt
of Post-office Ortlar for the Amount.
All orders to be sent to the Works—
ISen.si2igton. ESt:., SaycS-MLey,
T. D. KYLE ... Manager.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OP
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
——The unly Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water 2oap +
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
OHUBB & PEAEGES, Photograph®!,
(Late of Regent Street, London,)
*• Umpire Galleries,”-483 A 484 George Street,
(over Beale's), SYDNEY.
%
■>, WE have much pleasure in making reference to the
V» favorable notice of The Bulletin, Ist June, and
Daily Telegraph, Ist June, and at the same time in
thanking the public for the large amount of patronage
bestowed on us within so short a time. We are pleased to
say we are now overtaking the excess of work in al!
departments, and trust to merit a continuance of the same
good opinions and favours.
Note our Moderate Prices:
Cabinets, 155.; Cartes-de-Visiie, Bs.. od. per Dos.
: < Portraits at Home, Groups, Parties, Houses, &0., a
speciality. Photographed at Short Notice and at equally
* Moderate Charges.
MedicaL
%
K
> l
• ••
«r>
I*
7-^°
U
=v cvO
o_.e>
“Cod Bless the Duke of Argylef
Tho most distressing forms of itching and inflam-
matory diseases of the akin and scalp are instantly
relieved and permanently cured by the Cuticura
Remedies, when all others fail.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautilier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cutxcura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, cure every form of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply dis-
eases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss of
hair, from infancy to old age.
I have been cured of a most unbearable itching
skin disease by the Cuticura Remedies. They
have enabled me to escape years of suffering.
You may use my name as a reference, and any one
who wants to know about my case may write me,
inclosing stamp. W. 13. BROOKS,
47 Grove Street, Providence, R. I.
I am a canvasser, and one year ago I was badly
afflicted with salt rheum, so that I was unable to
walk. I tried tho Cuticura Remedies, and they
entirely cured me. F. E. PERRY, Rome, N. Y.
Bold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 60c. ; Boap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by tho Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
Kg- Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 60 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PINT
PLEB, blackheads, rod, roueh, chapped and
I oily skin prevented by Cutictira Soap.
Two years ago I was attacked with eczema,
cannot tell you what I suffered. I was the most
lorn spectacle you ever saw Charles Konne y>
this place, showed me your pamphlet on sUn i*
eases, and among them I found the desciip 1
suitable to my case. I bought the
Remedies. I took seven bottles, with the
cura and Soar, and the result is a perman
cure. I thought I would wait and see if it wo
come back, but it has proved all you said it WO
do, so I will say God bless you and yours.
TIIOS. L. GRAY, Lcavertown, Ohio.
I, John J. Case, D. D S., having P ractifi ®f
tistry in this country for thirty-five years, an
well known to thousands hereabouts, wit a
to help any who are afflicted ns I have been 0
past twelve years, testify that the Cuticuba
edies cured me of Psoriasis, or Scaly ’
eight days, after the doctors with whom I ha
suited gave mo no help or encouragement.
Newton, N, J. JOHN J. CASK, !>•
The Cuticura Remedies have P er “ a “®“all
cured me of dandruff and facial eruptions
other remedies had failed. For nine mo
head has been entirely free from the slig j wg|
of dandruff, and my skin Is as clear as w
a boy. LOU THOMPSON, New Brltain^^
SQNVH
Soft, white, and free from cb«ps
rednesa. by using CUTIOURA ■
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
His Serene Highness the Hereditary Prince of
Pumpernickel bresents his gompliments to de
Bulletin togeder mit de following leedle lamen-
tation -lied, on the preach of international briyi-
lege on de part of Pritain towards Deutschland in
the late dransactions of de English royal marriage-
market, The Prince abologises for his defective
knowledge of Kolonial English ash she is spoke:—
“Dr. C. K. D. Tannei', M.P. for Mid-
Cork, has been sentenced to one month’s impi’ison-
meut, with hard labour, for spitting at the police. ”
—Cablegram.
By shiminy, kreutz sakrament, potz-bomben und
great Scott!
These bare-legged, purse-proud Scottish lords are
going it, bei Gott!
That leetle Baron Fife and Drum, to catch the
Fraulein Guelph!
Potz-blitzen, vot a shame it vos; I shpotted her
mineself !
Since our Albert of Saxe-Coburg captured Eng-
land’s royal vife—
De man who vore de vaistcoat of a vite und
plameless life —
De plump and fair-haired princesses dat shtand
round Britain's throne
Were pranded “Sold to Yarmany,” and ear-
marked for our own ;
’Till that red-headed Lord of Lome, de Crown-
prince of Argyle
Who keeps a shplendid itching-post to scratch
himself in shtyle),
Came down from Inverary mit no trowsers on his
knees,
Und scooped de pool from Yarmany by collaring
Louise.
De cry is shtill dey coom to shear the lambkin’s
golden fleece.
And as Lome caught de Aunty, Fife und Duffer
kops de niece.
Now greedy for the harvest that the Scottish
chiefs have won
The Cockney lord of Chelsea yants a royal tart or
bun.
There is grief in the Grand Duchies and mooch
shvearing on the Rhine,
At this sagrifice of Deutschland at de matrimonial
shrine,
C )ur crowns must now be auctioneered like common
market shares
To the Yankees and Australians for their female
millionaires,
If Bismarck, mit his cannon-speech, don’t up and
show his hand,
Demanding restitution of the rights of Deutscher-
land.
Oh, drag him from the Forum and haul him
through the town;
Surround him with the bravest that bolster up the
Crown;
Immure him in the dungeon that rots beneath the
moat,
And load with chains his ankles, let sackcloth be
his coat;
Take from him vest and trousers—his inmost gar-
ment fleece,
His crime is most atrocious — he spat at theperlicel!!
Sustain his pride with skilly, washed down by
briny tears,
And let no sound, no whisper, lift silence from
his ears;
Take heed no ray of sunshine e’er penetrates his
cell,
The home of bat and spider, of toad and foetid
smell.
Exile the disaffected who clamour for release ;
Such crimes must be abolished — he spat at the
perlice 111
Tear down his fam’ly roof-tree, sow salt about his
hearth,
And let the name of Tanner be blotted from the
earth;
Let fox and owlet shelter where’s youthful days
were spent,
While on the fara’ly tombstone sits “ the pig that
pays the rent,”
Outlawed be all his kindred, from grandsire down
to niece;
This wretch deserves the gallows— he spat at the
perlice lit
Rack all his bones with tortures, and lacerate each
limb,
Fill up his cup till sorrow slops over at the brim ;
Extract his teeth and eyeballs, in fragments break
his bones,
And with a gag of Standards intercept his shrieks
and moans;
With vampires fill his dungeon, snake, adder,
cockatrice,
His victims cry for vengeance—He spat at the
perlice!!!
B.
“The competition of Government Rail-
ways cuts the ground from under the steamers’
feet.” — Mr. Copeland (from Yorkshire), M.P. , of
N. S. Wales.
The prisoners in Berrima are expected
to preserve a “hominy- I ’ouse silence.” We cor-
dially recommend this joke to the attention of
Alfred Bennett.
A Melbourne paper pretends to have dis-
covered a horse that will eat flesh. This is no
novelty. There are hundreds of horses that will
run for stakes.
In a Melbourne maintenance-case the
other day a man named Schour swore that he
borrowed £SO from a money-lender named Moss,
for which he paid £290. It is the Moss that
gathers the rolling-stone.
It is pretty evident now that when In-
spector-General Fosbery declined to arm the
Sydney police with revolvers he knew, or suspected
that some members of the force were in the habit
of carrying revolvers, despite the regulation, on
their own private account.
The latest in obituaries (from Northern
N.S. Wales
Death.
Jones.— The Saviour took our pet-twin Pansy home
suddenly—on June 15th, from Jones-street, Jones-
town, after a loan of 11 months 3 weeks. E. Jones.
An individual who left his umbrella in a
newspaper-office the other day, having recovered it
on the first time of asking, is now morally certain
that it is no longer necessary to take out an
insurance- policy against loss by burglary. The
office, we may state, was Thb Bulletin.
Overheard recently at an “ At Home ” in
the City of the Three “S’s” between n, young debut-
ante and her elderly partner: —Y.D. (in loud
voice); “ What are you kicking my chair for ? Did
you think it was my leg ? Well, they aren’t much
thicker than that.” Confusion on the part of the
elderly partner, and consternation all round.
At a recent Rockhampton ball the wife of
one of the richest Mount Morganers wore £10,000
worth of diamonds upon her dress, which, by-the-
way, was also a most gorgeous affair embroidered
in gold thread throughout. The lady’s husband
only draws £20,000 a month from the mine, and
he is not the largest shareholder by a long way.
The Member for Morpeth, on the preven-
tion of floods at Maitland, says;—“Mr. Gordon
will have to consider very carefully the enormous
bodies of water that are nourished by the serpen-
tine sinuosities of the Hunter River. ” The study
of serpentine sinuosities has already plunged many
respectable families into the abyss of misery. The
Noozs alone remains in the business.
Some backblocks Scotch meenisters were
in the habit of attending the quarterly celebration
of the Communion at each other’s churches. On
one occasion four of them were billeted at an old
Scotch selector’s, who, for their stomach’s and
conscience’ sake sent into their room four Bibles
and four bottles of whusky. Thereupon the pious
quartette sent back one of their number with
three (3) Bibles and a honied request for three (3)
mair bottles o’ the same brand.
Some little time ago an English nobleman,
who shall be nameless, passed through Rotorua.
When he arrived at the principal hotel,
verandah and door were crowded by natives.
The waiter, who spoke Maori very little and very
badly, called upon them to make way for “the
lord.” They watched him with wide-open eyes as
he alighted from the coach, and then went to an
interpreter and asked him if it were true that
“the Lord” had arrived, evidently referring
to the Second Advent. The interpreter, scent-
ing some fun, solemnly assured them in the
affirmative. Away went the Natives to tell j
the news to others, and before long a crowd of !
wondering Maoris appeared and forced their way
to “the Lord.” Then a deputation of old chiefs
went to him, and inspected him curiously. At
first they kept a respectful distance, but gradually
came closer, and at last ventured to touch his gar-
ments, and then his flesh, he being much perplexed
at their mysterious proceedings. Then the depu-
tation retired to discuss matters, and apparently
came to the conclusion that he was a very mun-
dane sort of Lord after all, for they returned and
solemnly propounded the query, “Will the Lord
shout long beers?” He “shouted.” — Dunedin
Evening Herald.
The last mail brings particulars of the
“Linotype,” the new type-setting machine about
which Alfred Bennett is so anxious. It must be
remembered that machines for the same purpose
have already been used, but failed to be of prac-
tical value because they could not distribute the
type or space or divide into lines. The new in-
vention has surmounted all these difficulties. It
resembles the ordinary type-setting machine in so
far as there is a lettered key-board, on touching
which the letters are dropped and carried along
a tube by a strong air-blast. The spaces between
the words are made by wedge-shaped blocks driven
automatically into place. When a line is finished
the operator moves a lever and the type is seized
by a gripper, then placed automatically in front of
the operator, who can, if necessary, check his
work, and is afterwards carried away leaving the
machine free to set up another line. The line of
type is then inserted in a slit made in a disc of
metal of the size and thickness of a line of ordinary
type, and a mould is taken ; over this is a pot of
melted liquid which, at the proper moment,
pours, by means of an ingenious force-pump, a
sufficient quantity of metal into the mould.
A turn of the metal disc carries this mould
past two trimming knives, and then places
it on a galley. After the mould is made the
original dies are carried to the top of the machine
by means of an endless revolving-belt, and by a
most ingenious contrivance each is dropped
into its proper tube, so that no mistakes are
made in the distribution of the type. The
New York Tribune took tip the machine
in July, 1886, but for 18 months it was a
cause of misery and disappointment ; yet
triumph came at last, as the appearance of the
Tribune proves. Actual experiment has shown
that one man with a “Linotype” can do as much
work in 1584 hours as a good typesetter can in
3039 bours, or, allowing for distribution, 4052
hours. The machine increases every man’s capa-
city two and a half times, and reduces the cost
of setting to one-third. The N. Y. Tribune
pays less than a third of what it did under
the old system. One hundred and thirty machines
had been ordered by other American papers when
tbe mail left, when it was only just tried in Eng-
land. This invention was suggested by an Ameri-
can shorthand-writer and perfected by a German
watchmaker. It can perform all classes of news-
paper work except ruled tables and displayed ad-
vertisements.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
m
EUREKA
ELECTRIC BELTV
* X . vtv V
: v.
l
Ni
lAl)
A NEVER RAILING' CURE EOR ALL.
DISEASES OR THE NERVOUS system:.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. Tin’s famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY. Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. 1 ains in the
Back. Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, Q. P. 0., Syonkv.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.8.C.P., M. 8.0.5., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN—
Chronic, Nervous and ffenito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-32 5 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston it Elizabeth Sts J,
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases—price,
3s. 6<L (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Bose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
IPHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
A and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Pa nvt ? The Public are requested to notice the
WOiUWJLUH I words, Hose s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
of! on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor's extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
X~E. -A_« ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1838. By Post 3s. 6d.
“ Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN'S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
JJERVOUS DEBILITY,
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, OF BV POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt, of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain-
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mossen’S Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. fid. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Kass-Mussen, “Roselund Villa,’ 9
. Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD. SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOE FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
3 —
Extracts from Testimmials:
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst:—
“I have tested a sample of the ‘Magic Meal' for
poisonous metals such as Antimony arid Aasenic and have
to report, afte.i a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that this
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H, Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon “ I
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 35.; 141 b. ss. 6d. ; 561 b., 18s.
6d,; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0,
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
31 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINL
Beecham’s Pills
CH/J
0
PATENT
w
PILLS
*
&
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. E ery
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system, If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” tes ified
continually by merabe s of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affect ons. Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beech am's Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Eucalypti: Oilss.
Victory Ointments
PLEMAHUSONS
n
THE TREE OF LIFE.
pure gs&s&M-
The only pure Eucalypte in the World,
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the ( hest and
Bungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours/ and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Bu a y pee Pills, Eucalypte
Bair Bestorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the bf-st preparation
befoie the public for young Children and aged
pe'op’e. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory—Co jtamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot -227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations. *
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most 'unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY,
Kjr CONSULT TT
Moore & Hogg
JLJ | the eminent A--*-
CONSULT
&
h EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases Ofthe Genito-Urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, CORBETTS BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOI.BULTATIONS FREE. PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 3d. stamp.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sy:«iey Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advan e), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements.
£2O
BUGGIES
£2O
BEST IN THE M OULD
for *3O.
đ
The Largest Coach-
Works lu Australia.
No. 45— Turnout Seat— £3s.
COPE <sc NEWMAN,
BOGGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 63 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Defective Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF rROMISB,
and all i inds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.,
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four differen anguages.
No connection with any other office.
Address: 53 SYDNEY ARCADE,
“ For Framing a Picture Heat and Well.”
* x :x
BERNARD S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-.-t., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Bet-t and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gl’ ding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges, j
pedal attention paid School Drawings Plush |
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
d
ď
đ
ď
MANU?A«TUft£RS
ft IMPORTERS OP
-. — i »4>.
HATS CAPS k
4$8 CEORCE ST
3VDNEY
0ppostfe LatsrtCtra
*
f/
&
(.1
Wig
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
ASTIi | SOfts
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N E.V
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at AL3ERT STREET. BRISKA-NTTC
lipjiiiWi
( '
3
1
f
đ
m
r* m
SUCH
I NO
*/.
*y
R
po
UFACTURED 6Y • .<>
' k/MMES CmNNVh c^arbcvrS 1 ’ J? \
tScIJL U, all Oaoc&u) *
Business Announcements.
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
igdm&Hife
Bass’ Bale Ale
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale: Agents:
BALCHIN JOHNSTON &
SYDNEY.
CO.
M. B. Foster and Sous,
LONDON,
“BUGLE ” BRAND ALE & STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and
STOUT of very inferior quality, in botiles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed off
on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and
to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER and
SONS to this colony bear their name and
address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer pur
porting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be
esteemed by the undersigned, who have ins true*
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the
frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information
leading to conviction of the offenders.
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster and Sons.
Ask for kupper’s elberfeld
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., & c
Cooperage:
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market-st., Sydney.
Hotels.
s 2
OWDENSHBWjfj;
SOTCI
BOWEEN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Subset (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C. BO«DEN .. .. Proprietor.
pRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
a near Opej-aHouse, Boutke-st.,East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.'
WESTERKT HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
riIHIS old-established and well-known Family
I and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. S 3 Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are imsur*
passed in the colonies.
K3S" Livery and Letting Stable*.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thosh
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE
Proprietor,,


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Jure lcdw«d from 30s. to 31s.
849 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
OT Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather.
x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
XjOZXtioxi Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
d
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KEITT STREET,
e always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Crl»*s, China and
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SYDNEY,
AND GENERAL
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
P. ft. LABIUN,
IMPORTER OF
WIZCsTJES, x SPIRITS, x IB IE IB IR, S, * ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
Jobs Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunvillb’s Rob’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hbnsbsstf’s, Martell’s and Sazbrac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood). Imported and Bottled hy P.B.L.
jag"'- The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading 1 brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 A 780 George Street.
anil Single Bottle Departments, 583 anti 584 €ieonge«st.,
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
<jr IFPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
—)x{—
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE; OIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
ALLAGH BROS.’
3XTlE3‘^o'sr
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
Now Supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
brown's
80 ST
m*.
? XA.DIES'
"Si I TRU^ lk - iC
'mm IfL u <
IM ro2/'/w,.&
* BOSTON
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila.,
IS-
1876
1877
1878
Melbourne, 1880
Frankfort, 1881
Amaterd’m 1888
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
jar- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY,
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes o grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they ape
spurious.
ENUINE SWEDISH MADE
CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C- -A.. F ALSTED
SOLE AGENT J OB AUSTRALIA,
140 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR SALE'.,—A' Quantity of Second-hand
NEWS PAPER TYPE in ease
and bulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer, Bulletin Office.
and Dealers.
B. P. BROWN & CO..
Boston, U.S.A., M’fgs.
• •
HIGHLY NUTRIT4VE
Coeoa
HAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS Oft PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
*
lt\
OR
IR.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and pr duces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ODONTO.
A rubs, NON-GiUTTY Tooth Powdee. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, lair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE 4»m-
Grey Hair a permanent Brawn or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
3-s-»-;z>r »y s «^
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting, &c., Tennis Shoes and
Australian Rutotoer Worlcs,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.V.
BOILERS,
1 fco 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
mnm pumps,
2" to 40" disci targe.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Latto.es.
n luisra
ko,, Sux
i
tatnln
m
WISBIKB SNfiINSS.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mi]] Engines®
nouwi ■
ENGINES
99*
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubular Boilers.
CWBHIBH BOUEia
Jtet
Invite all those requiring Machinery of any kind tor any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. (from the extent of their stock they are generally able to give i«>™HintT t deliver?
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect their magnificent display in their new and extensive Showrooms, y
123, 181, 133 & 135 HAY STREET, SYDISTHY.
