

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
At the Melbourne Centennial International Exhibition, 1888-9, the American Waltham Watch
Company obtained the FIRST AWARE for their New Non-Magnetic Watches.
% The following Report is by the Chairman of the Jury on Horology at the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, wherein the First Award for the Waltham Non-Magnetic Watches is recommended;—
vu'f* t\ WATCH COMPANY.—Non-Magnetic Watches.—Having obtained further information and the results of some good practical tests of some non-magnetio watches of this
exhibit, I have now the honour to report further upon it Question having arisen as to similarity of the balance of this watch and that of Palliard’s, the exhibitors obtailpdthoopi ? niLofmre4ert
who examined one of the Walthani Non-Magnetic W atches, as well as one of Rotheram’s Watches with Palliard’s non-magnetic balance. This expert (Mr. Kahan) reports as follows • ‘ I have received
from Messrs. Robert Beeston and Co., agents for the Waltham Watch Company, a non-magnetic watch, for the purpose of reporting to you whether the same is identical with those known as Palliard
a « d 9 0, .v‘ , ' have examined watch No. 3,292,923, lever escapement, keyless (Riverside). The balance (bi-metallic compensated), hair-spring (Breguet), lever, pallets and ruby roller are made of such
£wn as PalLTi’, ’ ma^tlsed ’ and consequently these watches are well adapted for the purpose for which they are made. The balance ’and hairspring are notTdentical with those
The exhibitors have also forwarded to me a report from Captain Joseph, who carried one of these watches with him while occupied about the dynamos in the electric lighting department This
report is as follows : At first the watch had a gaming rate of 30 seconds per day. After wearing it for some days, and finding this rate fairly constant, the watch was used in timing tests of dynamos
The rate then changed to 90 seconds per day, 1 sing. I then regulated it so as to brmg it to a gaining rate of 20 seconds per day. This being constant for six days, the watch wasSn used^nThe
dynamo room, and without affecting the rate. I have worn it constantly, and it has been brought several times in contact with dynamos at work, having a magnetic field which I think would have
ruined an ordinary movement; but its rate still remains gaining about 20 seconds per day.
Fletcher wets so 'pleased with the results that he purchased one of the watches for his own use among electric lighting machinery,
NON-MAGNETfc r WATCH. theSe reportS in connection with former trials and time tests. I recommend that the Waltham Company be given a FIRST AWARD for their NEW
H. 0. J. ELLERY, E.R.S., Chairman.”
The following is a List of Awards gained by the American Waltham Watches at International Exhibitions
PHILADELPHIA, 1575, Pour Prise Medals j Ml 1575, Geld Medal; SIDNEY, 1550, Geld Medal, with Two Special and Pear first Prises; MELBOURNE, 1551, Two Gold Medals;
P ORLEANS, 1555, five Prise Medals; IHViNMS EMBITIOi, LONDON, 1005, Geld Medal; MELBOURNE CENT.NNIAL EXHIBITION, 1050-5, First Award, Hen-Magnetic Watches
Constituting a record unequalled by any Exhibitors in Horology. 0
m P any have ordered Twenty NON-MAGNETIC Watches of the American Waltham Watch
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.— GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS’ CONTRACT.
TENDERS having been called for the supply of WATCHES for use upon the New South Wales Government Railways for the eusniuo- TOar +v, o
RAILWAY GUARDS’ WATCHES of the AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY. tor the _ e ? sum S y< 7 ar > th . e P r ® f ?L e H£ e _
iven to the celebrated
ATOHES have been
chosen by the New South Wales Government as the best and most reliable timekeepers for railway purposes, WALTHAM WATCHES are used"
South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, and also upon all the Great Railway Lines -f TT«ftJi J af.t. ' used by the Government Railway Officials in New
AMERICAKT
This is the Ninth Consecutive Year during which the WALTHAM
_ purposes, WALTHAM WATCHES are '
of the United Kingdom and the Indian State Railways,
WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
Sole Australian Agency; WALTHAM BUILDINGS, BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
r JpHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, ModLified. Tontine and Mortuary Dividend Systems.
BONUS YEAR. — Books will be closed on 31st December, 1889, and the Quinquennial Investigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of Bonus.
Federated Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
Q,TJ^--y 7 SYDNEY.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL Sc CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfittbrs, Art & Mediasvai, Metal Workers
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue
—0 F—■
MM APPARATUS and SUPPLIES used is making HUMID BEVESM
Instruction and Syrup Book FREE.
Final*
Extracts
AND
Flavours.
ii
PURE
FRUIT
*:V
' ‘
JUICES,
Out shows method of connecting Steel Fountains with Draught Arms Soda-water,
%
Marble Apparatus, Draught Columns, Tumbler Holders, Coolers, Block Tin-lined Steel
Fountains, Generators, Gas Washers, Bottling Setts, Snowflake Marble Dust, Bottle
, Boxes and Shipping Cases,
Manufactured by THE FIRM OF JOHN MATTHEWS, New York, U.S.A.
I B- MILLNEE, Agent, 82 Elizabeth. Street, SYDNEY, N-S.W.
°(y>
oji
=. A
n
.a y y
LSr S ||
'
T C
m a
.hi
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 KENT STREET (Two Doors from Market Street), SYDNEY,
—IMPOST—
HI I <3- H-C Xj -A. s S X IST DI A UsT & CHI3STA
TEAS
Paoked in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d., Is. 9d. and 2s. per lb
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.'
The Bulletin
[Saturday, October 5, 1889.


TOBACCO
S 3
w
n
k
s^C3B»
DIXSOPSONS
o
X
<v
SIR ROGER
50
a:
o
o
DIXSQNS
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. HEDGE'S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
“Can’t B Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “Can’t B Beat.”
Something New ! Something New !
'(Tie £'! Package. “ Can’t II Beat ” (registered)
Smoker’s Companion! tMI
containing the following:
11b. Williams’, Jib. blocks
lib. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
lib. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooaoco
11b. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 1 H S Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable. Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long Out, American
Delivered Free at Rediern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved 1 50 per cent, saved ! Note the address;
DUCK SIMMONS
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarket, Sydney.
B.
RITTENBERG & CO.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarenc® St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
o
FRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG YLAN6
OPOPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
Of all Dealers, and of the Mamifaeiiirert —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
. Tr*(t« Mark—" White Rose ”on Qolden
gv Lyre, with Address iu full. *
T. LAWLESS, Junk,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EYEEY HOUSE.
ò
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS
ALLNOXIOUS INSECTS
FLEAS.FUES BEETLES MOSQUITOES
COCKROACHESAND IS
AT THE SAMETIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DQGS
FOWLS OROTHER
ANIMALS
■ . . '-A • - ..Vij.A W . .
V.£
!•
# >
ó
ô
FELTON* CRIMWADE.V.C®
- MELBOURNE ~
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
õ
AUt
Jti consequence of Imitations of THE hORCESt ERSH/RR
SAtfCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers Jtqe that the Label on every bottli
lean their Signature (hus-m
without whkh no bottle , of the, original) WOR CESTERSUIRR
SA UCE is genuine .
AHtforCEA amfPE R RlffS* Sauce?, and see ff antes on f Wrapper, Lahti, Pottle and
Stopper,, Wholesale and for <Bxport%by thet Worcester ; Croese.and
BlaetnOeU; London, fr/,, (s*C.and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the Wofld.
WILLIAM -- CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
BALDWIN DEI AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
T.-F!TVrQKT S CJ&XT ms IH3 ZI «Ss 0., &C.
3iv£cl_.eSLn. Bros. Sz Bigg, XjtcL,
512 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
gpjr 1 Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYX.L.
Profusely Illustrated by “The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and FHlIi MAY.
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents —Victorian : A Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10- No. 503.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1889.
Price, 6d.
/
Calf Government.
“Lord Hopetoun has given an order for 300 liveries to an Edinburgh firm.”-Cable.
TAILR (to newly-appinted Austratian Gorernor of the Hopetoun type): " AND I SUPPOSE YOUR LORDSHIP WOULD LIKE TO HAVE YOUR MEN WELL SET UP—
A LITTLE WADDING HERE AND THERE ABOUT THE SHOULDERS ? ”
GOVERNOR: AW, CAWNT SAY IM A GREAT STICKLER FOR CHEST AND SHOULDERS, HUE LET US HAVE PLENTY OF BUTTONS AND A WEALTH OF
CALF. THERES NOTHING SO MUCH HELPS TO 'DRAW CL SER THOSE SILKEN CORDS WHICH UNITE,’ ETC., ETC., AS PLENTY OF CALF AT
GOVERNMENT HOUSE!”


The Bulletin
Hie National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO„
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-strbet, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0 13 6
Quarterly 0 G 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Easiness Communications
to be'addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” ivill return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ivo
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undo stand that
ice are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom ice do not icish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1889.
A Gubernatorial Speech.
In considering the address delivered last
week by Governor Carington to the boys at
the King’s School, Parramatta, very great
allowance must be made for the obligations
and restraints imposed by the speaker’s
official position. It is understood that the
present Governor of New South Wales is not
antipathetic to the sentiment of Australian
Nationalism. Within the past few years
there has been an apparent disposition on
the part of British pro-consuls in charge of
provinces to permit themselves to be in-
fluenced by the sentiments of the colonists.
Sir Hercules Robinson furnishes a striking
case in point. His protracted expatriation
from the mother country had permitted his
active mind to break loose from the insular
prejudices by which the conceptions of every
Governor are controlled at the outset of his
career. Sir Hercules, when on the point
of concluding a series of services marked
with much ability, was about to be rewarded
with a peerage. But he crowned his
usefulness by telling the Crown a naked
truth. Now, to a certain class of per-
sonages, there is no nakedness so revoltingly
indecent as the nakedness of Truth.
The peerage in preparation for Sir Hercules
was sharply withdrawn, and instead of re-
ward and distinction he was presented with
reprimand and official disgrace. He had
actually stated that the destiny of the South
African colonies was likely to be separation
from Great Britain, and the formation of a
Federal Republic. Sir Hercules should
have remembered the unvarying disposition
of the rulers of decaying Empires, These
absolutely require to be soothed with flatteries.
When Charles the Second of England quitted
Brussels on his restoration, he desired the
Spanish agent there to send him occasionally
the news. This official inquired of what kind
he would wish the intelligence to be, and, on
Charles appearing surprised, explained that
Don Juan, the Governor of the Netherlands,
then on the verge of breaking away from
Spanish domination, had given him positive
orders always to send good news, whether
true or not.
* * *
Lord Carington evidently recognises the
exigencies of his situation, and even in
delivering a sort of exhortation to boys to
cultivate an Australian national sentiment,
he qualified his remarks so as to render
them comparatively unobjectionable to the
Imperial authorities. This is a squinting
sort of regard. One eye is focussed on Aus-
tralia, and the other is directed on London.
In teaching the young Australian idea how
to shoot at the mark of Nationalism, Lord
Carington was at pains to recommend blank
cartridge. The two incidents to which his
Excellency referred in illustration of his
meaning were unfortunately selected. The
first was not an exemplification of Australian
national sentiment at all. The second did
not fit in agreeably with the tenor and ten-
dency of the moral which the Governor
attempted to draw. The Soudan Expedition,
instead of being an outcome of Australian
Nationalism, was, in reality, the last flare of
the flickering flame of Imperialism in this
country. It is diverting to find the
successor of Lord Augustus Loftus des-
cribing the Soudan affair in a vein iden-
tical with that of The Bulletin, when the
public went mad with respect to the affair.
England, says his Lordship, was engaged in a
tribal war. The war itself was unpopular in
England. The offer of troops by the New
South Wales Government was illegal. , Some
people called it ridiculous. There was no
crisis necessitating the despatch of 800 men
to help a nation which, besides owning the
mightiest navy ever seen, has 140,000 regular
troops, a large army reserve, 130,000 militia and
yeomanry, and 250,000 volunteers. This is
pretty nearly the text of article after article
which The Bulletin flung in the face of the
lunatic jingoes of the day. It is peculiarly
amusing to find a Governor supporting
those representations by a quotation from
the Sydney Daily Telegraph to the effect
that the Soudan expedition was “an im-
pulsive interference in the struggles of the
Empire.” We should like to know the date
when the Telegraph published that opinion.
At the time of the Soudan craze the Tele-
graph was a prominent lunatic and competed
with the S M. Herald and Evening News as
to which should wear most straw in its hair,
and howl loudest for nigger blood and loyalty
to the Empire.
s? s *
But it was in relation to the alleged second
instance of Australian National sentiment
that Lord Carington was most misleading
in his treatment of the theme, when ex-
plaining to the King’s School boys the moral
to be deduced therefrom. The subject
matter in this instance was the recent strike
of the London dock-labourers, and the “im-
pulsive interference with the struggles of the
Empire ” in that particular. In the first
place, this was not a matter related to Im-
perialism at all. It was precisely and dis-
tinctively that which Lord Carington em-
phatically informed the boys it was not. “It
was not,” said his Lordship, “ a question of
socialism or of class antagonism that moved
Australians. It was simply an honest out-
burst of sympathy and pity for starving men,
women and children of their own race strug-
gling for a bare existence.” Struggling with
whom ? Not, certainly, with a foreign foe.
Struggling for what? Not, assuredly, for
dynastic objects or territorial conquest. It
was a struggle by the employed against the
employer, a struggle for a juster distribu-
tion of the fruits of exertion. That is to
say, of class against class, and on dis-
tinctly Socialistic lines. In neither of
the instances referred to by Lord Carington
can the movements be properly described as
characteristically national, although the
latter example may perhaps be admitted to
indicate the probable tendency of Australian
national sentiment with respect to one of the
modern problems of society. That the aid
given to the dock labourers was not national
needs no better proof than the reception
which Mr. Traill’s inquiry in Parliament
whether an opportunity would be afforded
the Legislative Assembly of voting a contri-
bution in aid of the strikers, met with. The
same journals which excitedly urged the com-
munity to subscribe towards the Soudan Ex-
pedition and applauded the absolutely illegal
appropriation of public revenue to defray the
cost of that filibustering exploit, denounced
the idea of compromising the colony by
parliamentary—that is to say, national —in-
tervention in the struggle between Capital
and Labour. On the other hand, while the
Australian Tory class here poured out their
wealth with a free hand to help the slaughter of
the Soudanese whom Gladstone himself had
declared to be “ rightly struggling to be
free,” that section of our community either
closed their purses with a vicious snap or
doled forth their alms with a grudging hand
when the object was to strengthen the hands
of British labourers likewise struggling to be
free. The proprietors of the Sydney Morn-
ing Herald, who gave £lOOO to the Soudan
Fund, were content to contribute £10 —one
hundredth part of the former amount—to the
dock labourers. The Age proprietary gave
nothing to the labour fund. Millionaire Tyson,
who gave £lOOO to the former object, and
promised an equal sum annually as long as
there was an Arab unslaughtered and un-
quelled, gave, so far as has been ascertained,
not a penny to the strikers. The cele-
brated Little Boy at Manly, who won fame
by devoting £5O of his marble and lolly
allowance to help kill Arabs, sought no re-
newal of his celebrity as a donor in connec-
tion with what Lord Carington describes as
“ an honest outburst of sympathy and pity
for starving men, women, and children of
our own race.”
* * *
But, on the other hand, the largest con-
tribution to the dock labourers proceeded
from the funds of organised labourers in
Australia. The Trades Unions unflinchingly
and unhesitatingly depleted their hoards to
help the strikers. Had the matter been a
sentimentally national one this course of
liberality would not have been available to
these organisations. An application of their
funds to such an object would have been
absolutely illegal. The officials who were
responsible would have certainly rendered
themselves personally liable to civil proceed-
ings, and possibly to criminal prosecution, for
misappropriation of funds held in trust for
particular purposes. It was simply because
the affair was one of class antagonism that
the Trades Unions were at liberty to devote
their funds to support one of the contending
parties against the other. And not only did
they remit large sums out of their own re-
sources, but through their hands passed
almost every pound sent. The Trades and
Labour Council of New South Wales con-
stituted itself the collecting and remitting
agency. If any political, apart from social,
significance be traceable in the incident at
all, it may be discovered in the circumstance
that a large proportion of the funds sent
were directed to the editor of Reynolds’
Newspaper, the recognised organ of the
Republican sentiment among the working
class in Great Britain; a weekly newspaper
circulating more than half-a-million copies at
each issue.
* * *
It will be Just as well that young Austra-
lians should be accurately apprized of the
significance of this remarkable demonstra-
tion. The soft, rosy light shed upon it by a
British officer, bound by the obligations of
his position to please his chiefs or mar his
career, can only mislead. The essential
lesson is that what in Australia is capable of
being construed as merely sympathy with poor
souls struggling for a bare existence is in the
Old Country downright encouragement of a
socialistic movement engendered by intoler-
able derangements of the social machinery,
and conducted by a socialist reformer. There
is occasion in this reflection for a just pride.
Emancipated from the indurated prejudices
of a decaying phase of what is termed civili-
sation, the minds of men in this newly
colonised territory of Australia have out-
stripped the slow progress of thought in
England. The powerful retarding influence
of a Sovereign, a Court, an Aristocracy, or
State Church, and that most potent body, a
Snobocracy which repeats with grovelling
acclamation every opinion—%s it imitates
every fashion—which has the approbation
of the Upper Orders, is here inoperative.
Wealth here constitutes the main distinction
between one man and another. And as
wealth is quickly won and frequently lost,
the individual owners of that distinction
have no fictitious attributes in the estimation
of the people at large. The divinity which
hedges a King fails to encircle a Jones who
but a few years ago ian a store or kept a
pub. The moral of the popular movement
to aid the dock-labourers, is truly that Aus-
tralian thought is far in advance of British
thought; that right and wrong are clearly
recognised here without respect to the dis-
torting preconceptions due to slavish defer-
ence to the interested and selfish rules of
so-called right-thinking established by privi-
leged classes which exist only by imposition
and fraud, supported by a code of laws
concocted by themselves for the preservation
of their own advantages.
The Reign of Necessity.
In one of the publications of Mr. CoGhlan, the
New South Wales Government Statist, we are in-
formed that every man, woman, and child in N.S.
Wales annually consumes on the average six pints
of wine, thirteen gallons of beer, and ten pints of
spirits, with the result that about four men and
one woman in every hundred are each year taken
to the nearest watch-house and there carefully
locked up till the morrow. From these figures
one may venture to predict that during the pre-
sent year twenty thousand men and four thousand
women in New South Wales will be run in for
being drunk, and the prophecy will certainly be
realised. Whatever be the reason, whether it be
from the nature of mankind or from the nature of
the police, or from the nature of the drink itself,
or, as Mr. Varley (and Mr. Justice Foster)
would say, from the nature of the Devil, it is
quite certain that a fixed quota of drunks will
appear before the magistrates. The number of
the elect being therefore pre-determined, entirely
apart from those who make up the tally, it is but
a logical conclusion that any man who, deliberately
or even casually, gets locked up and so forms one
of the count, thereby saves a neighbour from the
ignominy, since it is perfectly certain the pre-
determined number cannot be exceeded. Nor is
this all. A man may not be drunk and yet be
arrested —this does not affect the decision of the
magistrate in his case. With wonderful regularity
ten out of every hundred who stand before the
court are discharged, and 90 suffer the penalty
of the law. It is quite immaterial whether the
ninety were sober and the ten drunk, or
whether the ten were sober and the others drunk,
just so many will be punished and no more.
Everyone of the 90 will have the option of paying
a fine or “ taking it out,” In reality, the option is
a farce. Thirty out of every hundred who hear
the formula repeated : “ Twenty shillings or 48
hours,” have no option but regularly go to gaol,
even as 30 did last year and 30 will next year.
The man who drinks to excess and toddles into
the arms of the expectant policeman is not, there-
fore, the filthy, low, sottish brute he has been so
often called, but one who obeys the iron law of
necessity, which lays down the number of
drunkards who shall fill the gaols and merely
offers himself a vicarious sacrifice to save a brother
from so ignoble a fate.
# * *
The gleeful William, who leads his own
Tootsey Wootsey to the altar, flatters himself
that ho is a free agent. Never did he make a
greater mistake. Out of every thousand persons
in New South Wales there will be 10 married
during the year, and if William had failed to
come to time someone else would have been mar
ried and the fateful 16 made up. There is a little
fiction common enough among young parents that
they are consenting parties to the increase in the
population. Their opinion is harmless, if delusive.
We have no hesitation in declaring that during
this year to every thousand of the N.S.W. people
will be added 37 new lives. With ridiculous re-
gularity do these numbers appear, and if it flatters
anyone’s vanity to say he or she was a willing
contributor to the number, the assumption is par-
donable, for the children are born all the same.
If there is any event concerning which there can
be no certainty, surely it must be the number of
children born out of wedlock. The sinful Faust
and the wretched Marguerite have each their
say —but only in theory. The brutal statistics
show that throughout New South Wales one child
out of twenty is an illegitimate. When grim death
comes along, what heed takes he of prayers, of
medicines, or of charms ? Fifteen out of every
thousand he wants, and fifteen he takes. And
through that disease, worse than death, how many
find their way to the mad-house ? With unfailing
regularity the victims are produced, and when the
tally is made, twenty-seven to every ten thousand
is the reckoning. So many from home-sickness,
so many from drink, and so many from passions
morbid or ill-regulated.
* * *
Nothing can be more disheartening than the
picture statistics give of the futility of all human
effort. So little variation do the averages show,
that even where there is an increase or decrease it
is so gradual as to admit of being easily forecast.
With just so much certainty as an individual
knows the number of loaves his family will re-
quire from the baker, does the statistician know
the number of crimes to be committed during the
year, the number of unfortunates who will commit
suicide, the number of fires that will occur, the
number of persons who will be carried from the
streets to the hospital and from the hospital to
their last rest. It is not, then, to be wondered
that the greatest of social economists, like
Quetelet, have risen from their studies profound
fatalists. Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow wo
may be in gaol, or in the mad-house, or contem-
plating suicide, or dead.
# * *
But, after all, this is a very narrow way of
looking at life. It is true that what men in
the gross will do under given circumstances
can be readily determined. From the experi-
ence of the years that have been counted
out, can be told what will happen in the
years that are to come. Men themselves do
not change. The desires and appetites which
move them to-day are the same which swayed
their race, even before the pyramids were built,
and will remain unchanged to the end. What can
be altered are the circumstances by which men are
hemmed in. With freer opportunities comes freer
life. Progress is made not by operating on the
individual but by changing his environment. The
evil of drunkenness is cured not by reforming in-
dividuals but by changing the masses, not by
shutting up the hotels but by abolishing the evils
out of which the craving for drink springs.
Similarly with other evils which have their root in
social causes. A clear knowledge of these things
will be of infinite use to us in building up the Aus-
tralian race. But if we insist upon introducing
and maintaining the same conditions which
dominate Europe and produce the fruitful crop of
evils that there afflict industrial life, we will in-
evitably have like results.
Out of evil, evil flourishes,
Out of tyranny, tyranny buds.
Yet this is exactly what is being done. Amongst
the lesser things we have rampant, absurd pre-
dilections for old-world distinctions, to yield here-
after a pestilent crop of class extortions and
illiberal obstructions. We have transplanted old-
world habits of feeding and dressing quite un-
suited to our Austral clime. We have brought to
our cities the close alleys of Europe and its stifling
dwellings against the plainest commands of nature
and common-sense. To a land specially adapted
to the production of wine and to a clime where
spirits are poison, we have brought habits of
whisky-drinking and a distaste for unfortified wine.
We have adopted old-world modes of treating
crime, which bear natural fruit in transforming
into devils those who have committed only one
offence. We have, in fact, simply followed the
foolish boast of Wentworth and set about pro-
ducing a new Britannia in another world, as if
everything found in old Britannia were worthy of
servile imitation. Under such circumstances we
cannot expect things otherwise than they are.
The suicides, crimes, insanity, drunkenness, and
vice which can now be so accurately predicted are
the result not of individual debasement, but of
social causes. In vain we bring to our aid the
armoury of old-world terrors—the lash, the gal-
lows, and the gyves, only to find that the torture of
the criminal does not mean the salvation of society.
The causes of vice and crime are with society itself,
which has no moral right to punish its members
unless it reforms itself. It is not asserted that the
individual man is not a responsible agent, far
otherwise, but his circle of responsibility is limited
by the network of restrictions with which society
has enmeshed him. The chief duty of society is
to make that environment compatible with man’s
best aspirations and not as at present, the persistent
obstacle to his most natural desires. When such is
accomplished there will still be those who “moan
for rest, but rest can never find,” there will still
be a limitation of man’s powers, within which he
will be the veriest slave of necessity, but in such
happier time it is no barren hope or vain longing
to believe that however close it may be to us, or
however far removed, the “dark horizon of neces-
sity will become the sunlit circle of duty. ”
HENRY SIEBEL.


The Workman in Germany.
Peak Bulletin, — Let me, apropos of certain re-
cent New South Wales statements and discussions
about the condition of the German worker, occupy
a little of your space. The condition of the Ger-
man working classes is so varied that it would be
unwise to infer from the condition of workers in
one place or city the prosperity or poverty of all.
I have been among artisans in large industrial
centres who seemed a bright, happy lot of people,
and enjoyed all the luxuries, and even more, of
the Australian working man. On the other hand, I
have, in England, seen artisans in the most wretched
condition, scantily clothed, and continually on
the- verge of starvation. The first were skilled
artisans, the latter uneducated human machines.
A man’s worth determines the amount lie earns,
and here 1 cannot help having a slap at the Aus-
tralian workmen’s unions for the utter disregard
of this one vital point—that a man’s remuneration
should be according to his capabilities. We have
only too many men in Australia who work de-
fectively, but nevertheless take the same wage as
their fellow-artisan. A little while ago I had in
my hands a book of statis ies, and therein 1 found,
much to my astonishment, that wages paid in
Germany to the average working man were even
lower than what I thought: and surely, allow-
ing, as I did mentally, an average wage of
ten shillings a week to a full-grown labourer,
you must grant me that my figures were the
lowest I could reasonably go to. Would you
believe it that there are hard-working wretches
who earn by a year’s toil the large amount of
£l3 12s. ? It need not, therefore, surprise us to
find them emigrating wholesale to more hospitable
and (for them) brighter lands such as the States or
Australia, though the latter, not being so well-
known and more difficult of access, only receives a
very small percentage of the yearly emigration
flow. We cannot get away from the fact that the
life of the unskilled working man in Germany is
one full of privations and wretchedness. I think
mere mention of the total annual wage, £l3 12s.
(representing 272 shillings) to provide the sub-
sistence of 365 days, tells much, and though
living in Germany is cheap I leave to anyone the
working out of the problem. Take a man with a
family of six urchins and a sick wife —now, then,
my friend, work on these data.
The wages of the skilled artisan average £4O to
£5O, or but a third of what the Australian toiler
earns, and it will give you an idea of the cheap-
ness of commodities when 1 tell you that he lives
well and enjoys his life on that sum. If he is
without a family, 30s. a month will ]»ay for his
bedroom and meals; and granting him, say, £4O
(or 800 marks) a year, there are 440 marks left to
pay for his clothes and whatever luxuries he may
go in for. Now, if I allow on clothes-account
100 marks—which is ample, as you can obtain
suits of clothes in Germany from 7s. 6d. upwards
—he has 340 marks left, which he can put into the
savings bank ; but it so happens that my friend is
neither a total abstainer, nor does he despise
the fragrant weed, and fortunately he can in-
dulge in both these luxuries at a most reasonable
cost. Cigars may be bought at the rate of 7 for
20 pfennigs, or 2hd ., in retail shops. A penny for
a cigar is considered a big price, at which a really
good article is expected, and tobacco costs from
fid. per lb. upwards.
Beer in Germany is almost as cheap as water, a
litre (somewhat over an English quart) being re-
tailed at 24 pfennigs, or 2fd. It follows, there-
fore, that for one or two marks a week a working
man can fully indulge in the luxuries of smoke and
drink. Entertainments of every kind are open to
him in the large towns. He can see “ Faust ” for
fid., and he can have the most glorious open-air
music for nothing almost every night. Great
facilities are offered to him to attend technical
classes, and books are as accessible to him as in
Australia.
As everybody knows, Sunday on the Continent
is the great holiday, and every place of amuse-
ment —theatres, concerts, music-halls, dancing-
halls, public-houses, museums, picture-galleries,
libraries, &c., all are open to him. No restrictions
are imposed, and the working man really lives
(and, by thoroughly and agreeably changing his
occupation, mentally and physically rests) on that
day.
In conclusion, I may say that a man earning a
fair wage in Germany acts foolishly in leaving the
country, for what his money commands there is
certainly unobtainable in the Australian colonies,
notwithstanding the fact that his wages would be
three times as large here.
People are labouring under a delusion when they
imagine that the smelting-works in Germany are
all the property of the Crown. In most cases they
are in private hands: for instance, those of Krupp,
Gruson, the Vulcan Company, and others, in whose
works a kind of co-operation system exists by
virtue of which workmen have special advantages
for purchasing at the lowest prices necessary com-
modities, in addition to being housed free of rent.
The employment of women in the manner de-
scribed by Mr. Abigail does not exist, and although
I would not like to assert it absolutely, I doubt
very much whether any women are employed in
any way at Krupp’s gun-factory. The average
wages in those works are much higher than those
quoted elsewhere. Yours, &c.,
A. WUNDERLICH.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Miss Butler’s Case.
Miss Winifred Marian Butler has achieved more
fame than falls to most girls at her age. She has
deeply agitated a Q.C. and three leading barristers,
has occupied the attention of the N. S. W. Courts,
bquity and Full, for eight days, has had the con-
sideration of four judges, and lias supplied a
lengthy “leading case ” for the law-reports. It is
unfortunately true that the whole cost of the pro-
ceedings will come out of her pocket, the other
parties and lawyers having supplied the entertain*
inent at her expense, but the fame will also be en-
tirely her own. The whole moral of the case, as
tar as the public are concerned, is contained in the
truth that some of the sources of our case law are
impregnated with considerations entirely foreign to
our present state. Divested of technicality the case
stands thus : In the ages when clerical influence
and ecclesiastical bigotry dictated all law, the
judges affirmed certain strict rules to the general
effect that a child must follow its father’s religion
under all circumstances—that the father could, in
fact, bind the conscience of his child, and that the
|aw, after his decease, would see that such re-
straint was enforced. These decisions the judges,
through long centuries during which the domina-
tion of clerics has been minimised—-have not dared
to reverse or impugn. But while jwofessedly
giving such judge-made law a full authority, the
English courts have, in this century, made
continual exceptions in cases where the fol-
lowing of the precedent would work glaring
wrong. The Chief Judge in Equity, finding that
J iiss Butler’s case fell entirely within the
acknowledged rule of the law, felt bound to follow
it. _ The Full Court, on the contrary, asserted
their right to deal with this case as one wherein
the child’s good could be considered, and the rule
set aside because of the exceptional circum-
stances. Miss Butler between the ages of 10 and 13
had been educated as a Protestant. The Full Court
admitted that if the case had been brought into
question when the child was of the former age, the
established rule must have been applied strictly :
the Chief .1 udge in Equity apparently held that the
interval did not obviate the necessity of following
a law which in this instance might have wrought
agrievous hardship. Mr. Salomons in hisargument
persistently quoted the ancient dicta to which we
have referred, and argued that as the ease was
within the rule the Court must follow these de-
cisions,- irrespective of any considerations as to the
child’s predilections. He was met by the constant
enquiry, “ Can you show us any authority to pre-
vent our deciding on such guardianship as we may
deem best for the ward ?” and because no such
authority could be found, the appeal was ulti-
mately allowed. The case will not increase
public veneration for the law. It illustrates the
century-long struggle that commonsense has had
with barbarous law, and the infinite trouble which
civilisation has had in casting off barbaric
fetters. And even now the judges do not dare
to reverse or impugn leading cases which they
dare not follow. They admit that ancient cases
block the way of progress ; these they will not
attempt to remove, but by making a detour along
a bye-track discovered by English chancellors
they manage to avoid encountering the century-
old obstacle. It is about time that legislation in-
terfered to burst up these old systems and rules,
which are about as useful to a civilised community
as the Marble Man would be to a football team.
Farkes and Nationalism.
Sir Henry Parkes has a grand new project in
preparation, and if the patient electors of New
South Wales do not get a chance of firing him and
his party into outer darkness within a short time,
the scheme will be unfolded with all the pomp and
ceremony incident to the operations of the politi-
cian. The project “relates, not simply to muni-
cipal government, or to New South Wales. It
concerns all Australasia.” No wonder Sir Henry
is proud of such a scheme. Hitherto there has
been so parochial a limit to his statesmanship that
any political effort which concerns “all Austra-
lasia ” must necessarily possess all the charm of
complete novelty. And some large political
novelty would be an inestimable benefit to the
Parkesites. Their majority on the question of
fiscal policy is so mean and unreliable that any
accident or incident might avail to give the
Opposition a claim to the Ministerial benches.
Therefore it would be a tremendous advantage
gained if a new position could be taken up and a
new division of parties made. Freetrade has
pretty well “petered out,” and an appeal to the
country on that issue is above all things to be
avoided. Hence this foreshadowing of an appeal
to Australasian nationalism, for that’s what the
words quoted are plainly intended to mean. Great
change-artist as Sir Henry is known to be, it is
impossible to believe that he can be capable of any
genuine effort in the direction indicated. A fort-
night ago he was trading on intercolonial jealousy
by voicing indignation against the Victorians and
South Australians who are dipping out of “our
river, ” the Murray. A few months since he counted
Riverina reprobate because it contained Victorian-
born settlers, and was largely owned by Melbourne
capitalists. Upon every opportunity he, in com-
mon with others of the passing school of parochial
politicians, has flouted other Governments on this
continent and has worked on provincial jealousy.
Even on the Chinese question, the West Aus-
tralian difficulty, and other matters of Australian
consequence he insisted upon playing a lone hand,
declining to join in an Australian union of force.
Australian unity cannot be promoted now by the
apostle of Australian discord. And even if that
were possible his Ministers have to be reckoned
with. Messrs. Bruce Smith and M‘Millan, the
ambitious of the Cabinet, are notorious
for their pro-imperial sympathies, and would be
loath to assist in bringing about any union of the
Australias, for such union is inconsistent
with any means of 'Strengthening the bonds
which, &c., &c. Upon all these considerations
it is evident that no federal figs can be gathered
from that fine and large Imperial thistle, the
Parkes Government. The question of Australian
Federation may be brought forward as an appeal
to the political gallery ; but when that effect has
been secured the Parkesites will be fully satisfied.
And if their Premier touches the matter at all, it
may fairly be calculated that three years must
elapse before any real progress is made. Even if
he wanted to do so, Parkes could not dish the
Nationalists, for other Governments have to be
reckoned with and satisfied. The cultured arro-
gance of Sir Henry may dazzle electors, but it can
only disgust the statesmen and politicians of other
territories. Not by this David, but by some
Solomon, his successor, must the temple of Aus-
tralian concord be built.
«
One of the most delightful examples of the
manner in which racial hatred is stirred up by the
Tory Press of England and the Tory correspon-
dents of the always Tory Australian morning
press is found in a cablegram published last
Saturday■
London, Thursday.—The mystery has been cleared up
in connection with the disappearance of the Rev. Mr.
Barfield, a dissenting minister of Walsall, Staffordshire,
and a prominent Unionist lecturer. The rev. gentleman
accepted an engagement to lecture in Ireland, but as he
suddenly disappeared it was feared that he had met with
a similar fate to Dr. 'Cronin at Chicago. It has now
transpired that the rev. gentleman is in America, having
eloped to that country with a young girl from the neigh-
bourhood of Walsall.
The “reverend ” gentleman ! It takes more than
elopement now-a-days to strip a stipendiary Chris-
tian of his attribute of “reverence.” Barfield
appears to have been a very liberal “ Unionist,”
indeed—o f the type of Hughks-Hallett and
Brigham Young.
The French Government had a notion of placing
Paris in a, state of siege for the elections. An
article in the last Foktnighty Review admirably
condenses a survey of the Paris fortress as it is.
Paris is singularly well adapted for defence.
London, Vienna, and Berlin are not, so they arc
unfortified. Even before the French Revolution
of 1789 the Paris fortifications were all demo-
lished as barbarous remains ! Louis Philippe
decided in 1840 to renew them. England was
then regarded as the enemy. The scheme was
completed in 1860 under Napoleon 111, Since
1871 the walls have been immensely strengthened.
The area enclosed is 30 miles square. The lino of
walls extends 22 miles. There are over 20 gates,
9 openings for railways, and 2 for the L’Ourcq
and St. Denis canals. The outlying forts are
nearly 30. The earthworks, traverses, and so
forth, are tremendous. Six hundred thousand
Germans would be required to invest Paris, so
that it is now a practical impossibility. (The
largest number in 1871 was 236,000.) On the
other hand, the defences require a garrison of
120,000, a huge force to withdraw from the field.
There are the entrenched camps of Versailles,
Vincennes, and another more northerly. The new
forts are planted where the Germans found the
weak points. While the French hold their Peace
Exhibition the Germans announce an Exhibition
of War Material in Cologne next year, warmly
supported by the Emperor, Moltkk. and Wal-
dersee. They will hardly show the captured
French flags from Sedan and Metz, which now
lie folded in the Berlin Armoury, bearing the
proud emblazonments of Egypt, Marengo, Aus-
terlitz.Mena, Wagram, Sebastopol, and Sol ferine.
What a miserable game it is i
At Gunnedah, New South Wales, the other day,
Thomas Ryan and James Kelly, two Union
shearers, were charged with having violently pre-
vented three other shearers from working at their
lawful occupation. Kelly was discharged and
Ryan convicted, but the evidence of the three
witnesses called, who, it seemed, had made no
complaint against defendants and only appeared
owing to a magistrate’s summons, shows, so far as
the reports go, no earthly reason whatever for the
sentencing of Ryan to three months’ gaol. Three
magistrates occupied the bench, one of whom dis-
sented from the decision, while another, a sheep-
owner, who is a declared anti-unionist, must
be held to have behaved indiscreetly in acting
as judge in a case involving class issues, and,
possibly, unconscious prejudices. The men were
arbitrarily arrested five days after the alleged
offence, without warrant, and were refused bail,
although no charge had been laid, save by the
police. Minister of Justice Gould sees no reason
why a Supreme Court Judge shouldn't airily and
without trial flip a drunken citizen into gaol for a
whole year. We therefore don’t ask him to worry
over the case of Ryan, which is too trumpery a
matter to trouble about while the Tam worth wit-
nesses rot in gaol at the mere nod of an arrogant
Civil Servant.
*-
That tender little blossom, Tommy Bent, recently
lifted his fragrant head in the Victorian Assembly
to suggest that there would be no rest for the
wicked until they were “lashed” more than at
present. As the possessor of much goods and
chattels, Mr. Bent —hasty, but warm-hearted old
Tom, bless him!—thought that robberies from
dwelling houses were becoming too frequent, and
must be put down with the “lash,” which senti-
ment was cheered by many other Native members
who have heal’d their fathers complain that flog-
ging wasn’t what it used to be in the early days.
A genial, openhanded radical is this Tommy Bent
—a worthy, honest fellow crying aloud for more
flogging. He and the other members of his
“brass” band think there is no music like the
music of the Triangles. Their taste for poetry is
confined to such lines as—“ The loud waves lashed
the shore,” and they approved of the wharf-
labourer’s “strike,” because it sounded like cor-
poral punishment.
—+
You can’t trust either evangelistic or Freetrade
or Protectionist statistics. Said Boanerges Vaki.ky
last week in a letter to the S. M. Herald :
It should be borne in mind that, except Lloyd’s Weekly
News and the Observer, an obscure paper published on
Sundays in London, there is not, so far as I know, a single
English, Scotch, Irish, or Welsh city where a Sunday
paper is published. The moral sense of the great mass of
the people is dead against it. To say that there is any
necessity for Sunday newspapers in those colonies is
absurd.
And now for facts to set alongside Varley’s alle-
gations. Lloyd’s, the “ obscure ” Sunday paper
referred to, has a certified circulation of just
under 700,000 a week ! Mr. Varley says
nothing about Reynolds’ Newspaper, England’s
mighty Socialistic organ (also with a circula-
tion of over half a million); nor does he mentic n
the Weekly Dispatch, nor the Referee (a
purely Sunday paper which prints 130,000 at least);
nor the Weekly Times, nor the Sunday Times,
nor the People, all of which, as they have lived
for many years as penny weeklies, must circulate
enormous numbers; nor does he say anything about
the Sunday papers published in other large X'.nglish
centres of population. Mr. Varley apparently
knows no more about British newspapers than he
knows about Heaven. As he knows all about the
Observer (which costs fourpence) and is unaware
of the existence of Reynolds’, it is clear that he
must have lived in a very exclusive London circle,
indeed. Mr. Varley, we are told, used to be a
butcher. He must have an extremely short
memory. Many a hundred pounds of sausages he
must have wrapped up in the heretical Sunday
press.
From the Age
It is not at all astonishing that the sectarians should be
encouraged in their assaults upon the Education Act when
we find the Government introducing a Bril to prohibit,
under drastic penalties, the publication of Sunday news-
papers. No such proposal has ever been made since the
days of the Puritan Parliaments. We are supposed to have
adopted the English law in reference to the observance of
Sunday, and now it is proposed to declare that what is
permissible in London shall be regarded as a penal often e
in Victoria. The Assembly will surely give the “ happ.v
dispatch” to this Bill with scant ceremony. The law re-
garding Sunday observance is at present* elastic, and is
enforced only so far as public opinion demands. Public
opinion has not demanded the prohibition of Sunday
newspapers. If people do not want such papers they will
not buy them, and they will not be published. If p*eople
do want them, is there any good reason why they should
be debarred from obtaining them ? There can be no
reason whatever except that derived from what John
Knox called “ The gross and carnal superstition of
Sabbatism.” If the Government and the Assembly
go so far as to approve this Sunday Newspaper Bill,
they are bound to go further, and stop the Sunday
trains and Sunday trams, and prohibit cabs and omnibuses
from plying for hire on the Lord’s Day, If the object be
the discouragement of Sunday labour, it would be better
served by the prohibition of the Monday’s issue of the
daily papers, which must involve more Sunday work than
a newspaper issued on Sunday morning. It is difficult to
understand why the Government should have introduced
such a measure. It is certain to provoke almost endless
discussion, and occupy the time of Parliament which
could be much better employed. It is the more inexcus-
able in Ministers to throw a theological fire-brand into the
Assembly that they hold important public measures in
abeyance. The flower of our metropolitan population is
annually decimated by preventable disease, and yet the
means of combating it by the creation of a body with
power to drain the metropolitan area and improve the
public health are neglected, and Ministers try to set bon.
members by the ears over a theological prob era,
the solution of which will occupy far more time
than the present Parliament has ' at its disposal.
It is very nearly time that this Sunday question should
be dealt with on its merits. We have* the extraordinary
phenomenon of a State collecting masses of information
from all parts of the world, and then carefully locking up
that information during the very day on which the bulk
of the people have the opportunity of availing themselves
of it The question of whether the Public Library and
Museums should be opened on Sunday came up for dis-
mission in the Assembly last night, and it is to be hoped
hon. members will conic to a decision on reasonable
grounds. The Sabbatarians have gained a convert in the
person of Mr John Woods, and we have pleasure in
making them a present of that logical gentleman. But
the question remains to be discussed all t he same, why
should the proprietors of the books and pictures in the
national collection be precluded from reading and looking at
them on a particulanday of the week? If reading books and
looking at pictures is demoralising on one day, it must
be pernicious on all, and should be absolutely prohibited.
But the general excuse put forward now-a-days for
shutting the people out of the museums and libraries on
Sundays is that it entails extra labour on the employees.
This, of course, is a false issue. If it were proposed to add
in the smallest degree to the very slight labour of a
Government servant, not only the colony, but the world
at large, would be startled by the howls of the aggrieved
civil servants. Their silence in this controversy shows
that they know very well that no extra labour will be im-
posed on them by the Sunday opening of the libraries and
museums.
——♦
From Lloyd’s Newspaper, per last English
mail :
In December last a costermonger named Thomas Murphy
was charged at Hammersmith police-court with attempt-
ing to commit a burglary in St. Charles’-square, and with
shooting Police-constable 'Wiiittbmokk, who attempted to
arrest him. It was alleged at the time by the constable in
the Marylebone Infirmary, North Kensington, to which
place be was removed after being found wounded in the
leg, and afterwards, when he was sufficiently able to
appear at the police-court, that on tile night of December
If be watched two men, Murphy being one, to the
front garden of a house in St. Oharles-square,
where he had a desperate struggle in his attempt
tp arrest them. He also alleged that Murphy shot
him in the leg with a revolver and escaped with
the other man. Murphy was afterwards arrested
and committed for trial, found guilty, and sentenced to 10
years’ penal servitude. The officer was commended for
b;s courage, and leave of absence was allowed to enable
him to enter a convalescent hospital. Before the leave
expired an inquiry was promoted by the commissioner,
resulting in the suspension of the constable pending the
decision of the Home Secretary. On Tuesday it tran-
spired that Police-const able Whittkmork bad been dis-
ci sseil the service, the police-orders issued on Tuesday
night stating, among other reasons, that he was
“grievously suspected of giving false evidence.” The
prisoner Murphy, who strongly protested his innocence
before the magistrate, and called a witness to prove that
he was at home in bed at the time of the alleged occur-
rence, is still undergoing the sentence.
This trial (without in any way impugning the
bona-Mes of any of the evidence given in the cele-
brated Sydney case) curiously recalls the trial of
Dignam and Johnson for the alleged shooting
of Constable Slater. By the way, under the
New South Wales code,' Dignam’s conviction
would have involved his execution, as wounding is
a capital offence in New South Wales ! What
lucky men are Dignam and Buttner !
Rev. Stacey Chapman told the Melbourne
Church ssembly the other day that Bishop Goe’s
salary—£2< 00 a year—was “scandalously inade-
quate.” Put that down, as Captain Cuttle says,
and score it under. Scandalously inadequate !
Of eoime Bishop Goe is sitting as chairman. We
know not what kind of a smirk he gave under the
flattery of Chapman. Mind, they do not say that
the Bishop’s screw was not quite enough, that he
ought to get another 10s. a week or anything like
that. Bishop Goe has a large private income
besides. Yet there are 40 hungry clergymen who
would be glad to divide up the £4O a week and
think it sumptuous. But then, what a paltry
pittance is £2OOO a year, beside the £4OOO of Bishop
Moorhouse m Manchester, the £lO,OOO of the
Bishop of Durham, and the £15,000 of the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury ! See to it, brethren. Re-
move this grave scandal. Some time ago an
English Bishop died leaving £300,000. Even good
Dean Stanley left £90,000. Clergymen with £lO
a week and more will abuse the working man be-
cause he does not squeeze something for them out
of his £2 a week, or less. Scandalously inadequate
as is the £2OOO of the Bishop of Melbourne, or of
Sydney, no Australian clergyman can hope to
aspire to it. Here we have a Protective system
working reversely. None but English need apply.
The lucky man is one who has been grubbing his
nose into a library all his life, in a snug English
vicarage. It is a positive and certain disqualifica-
tion for him to have been engaged spreading the
Gospel in the Australian bush. In short we have
over again the ease of the qualification for the
First Lord of the Admiralty—
Stick to your books, and never go to sea,
And you’ll become Ruler of the Queen’s Navee,
As W. S. Gilbert, in “H.M.S. Pinafore,” wrote
about Bookseller Smith. Let the fat sow be
greased.
-*—,
According to a late London paper, that annuel
circus of human fat, the Lord Mayor’s Show, is to
be partially abolished, and the money thus saved
is to be expended in providing a meal for 10,000 of
the poor of the city. Probably when the rest of
the show is done away with, when the stupendous
gorges of the Corporation are ended, and the
aldermen no longer assemble together every few
weeks to eat five guineas’ worth of rich food apiece
and drink about the same value in potent liquors,
all of which is paid for out of the rates—when the
gigantic revenues of the city charities are no
longer expended in providing board and education
for the children of the rich, and when a few of the
vast collection of gorgeous flunkeys and hangers-on
with ridiculous uniforms and salaries ranging from
£lO,OOO to £lOO per annum are wiped out, the
funds may bo sufficient to provide this army
of starving wretches with a square meal all the
year round, and then things may begin to look
a little brighter for the centre of Britain’s great'
ness. So far, however, there are no distinct signs
of any such charitable upheaval. The Lord
Mayor’s procession of late years has been a
failure, the masses having developed a tendency
to plod behind the apoplectic caravan and heave
bricks and dead cats and lumps of slush
at the bulgy, wheezy magnates who perspired
inside the long line of vehicles, and these demon-
strations have made the Corporation feel soared
from the crown of its only head right down to its
gouty feet. Therefore the un warlike mass of grease
lias resolved to appear no more in public, and
meals are to be given to the hungry 10,000 as a
bribe to induce these sons of toil to calm down and
not bring their unwholesome presence, and their
bricks, and their dead eats into the gilded halls
where the civic authorities intend in future to lie
low. The only real change is that the aldermen
will gorge in their own shady retreats and make
themselves as little conspicuous as possible, and
the sole reason for this unobtrusive move is that
the faithful city of London has began to manifest a
desire to hit them in the wind and double them
up. And the Corporation doesn’t want to be
doubled up. it won’t eat any less or drink any
less than before; its accounts will still be kept
dark as of old, and the millions of the city revenue
will continue to go in the same mysterious way
which has enabled many a city father in times
gone by to make a hog of himself on the altar of
his native land: in short, there will be no move
genuine charity in the souls of the city rulers than
there has ever been before, but the masses having
evidently lost their respect for the municipal
figurehead that thing of wood and lard throws
them a bone to soothe their rising ferocity -and
asks them to stand out of the road.


GOLD MEDAL PARIS EXHIBITION AWARDED
SUNLIGHT SOAP.
Invite your friends and neighbours to see you wash
clothes with Sunlight soap. Let them see you soap the
clothes well, then roll them up in a tight roll, and put
under the water and left for half an hour, then taken out
and rinsed. It will be quite a curiosity for them to see a
wash done without the necessity of scalding or boiling a
single piece, no matter how dirty or soiled.
Some Special Uses of the “Sunlight Soap.”— Used in
the Dairy it will keep churns, cheese vats, and milk pans
beautifully bright and clean. Used in the Sick Room it
acts as a Disinfectant. Used in the Stable it will keep
manes and tails clean and silky, and seal sores and
scratches. Use it for washing prize dogs and poultry, and
it will improve them as no other soap can. Use it for
taking out grease spots, and for keeping linoleums and
oilcloths clean and bright. Use it everywhere where soap
can be used and it will always give satisfaction. If you
prefer to boil the clothes, remember this soap will give
better results than any other.
Ute Batho’s Baking Powder.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment 00., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Soften.) teafil* v
Som cuD
Sa+is cvac&6.
o
U\t
jOaeteA
cjf
F. B. WHEELER k C0 M
2«6 Clarence Street, S¥MBV.
American Elgin Watches. Awarded two
Gold Medals, Melbourne Centennial International
Exhibition, 1888, being higher awards than any
other Exhibition of Watches obtained.
[?]
546 Maoquarie-street North, Sydney, October 2,1880,
My Dear Moorabinda,—
I believe the doom of the bustle has come at last. One
or two women wore no toumure at the Hand wick Spring
Meeting—and horribly wet-hennish they looked, too —but
as the well-dressed women of Marlborough House were,
seven weeks ago, characterised by “flatness,” soon nobody
will wear even the little bag of millet that is really neces-
sary. With the flight of the improver come worse horrors.
I mean false hips and things. Only one woman in a dozen
is well-shaped enough to wear a frock like a skittle with-
out calling wire-work to her aid. Bustles kept the tails
of our frocks out of the dirt, and, besides, they made
waists look much smaller, and without them girls will
have to lace tighter to keep up a seeming eighteen-inch
regulation.
It is as well to know that legally one need not pay one's
dressmaker if the bodice doesn’t fit. Proceedings in such
matters are based on the “unperformed contract,” and if
you just prance into Court w 7 ith the bodice on and prove
that it’s giving at the darts, the day is yours hands-down.
And what dozens of Sydney women ought to bring actions
and cross-actions against their frockists, to judge by the
creases round the waist and the hang of their sleeves !
I heard a short story the other day illustrative of man’s
perfidy, and though it’s only a terse talelet founded on
purely circumstantial evidence, the result was a broken
heart and several fits of hysterics. Borneo, a bank duck,
and consequently a “dead broke,” wooed Juliet, who has
a moneyed pa and a pretty housemaid. One day Juliet,
travelling in a suburban train with Borneo, gott a smut
from the engine in her eye. She kittenishly pulled out
his handkerchief to dislodge the speck, when her gimlet
optic found that the cambric was marked with the bap-
tismal of the pretty Abigail. The rest is inferred.
That ancient aphorism, “ Pride goeth before a fall,”
was recently sadly exemplified, dear brethren, in the case
of a ’orty young woman, daughter of the member for
Bargowlahmiue in the Sydney Assembly, who, having
finished her “eddication” at a top-note Potts Point
seminary, was returned to the paternal gunyah consider-
ing herself much superior to the horrid common
people. A few days after her arrival pa announced gruffly
that one of his constituents was cornin’ to tea, and he
hoped that Victoria Jubilee would entertain him, which
she gladly promised to do. The day came, and the
visitor, too. Tea went over like a happy dream. 1 Victoria
aired her best voice for his benefit, and handed him the
jam with a studied turn of the wrist, and after the meal—
it being Sunday—they sang hymns off the same Sankey
while the governess played the accompaniment, and they
flirted covertly under cover of the forte passages and
shook hands three times at parting. Next day a lady
visitor from the next township rose in the east, and in
cultured ecstacy Victoria told her what a nice fellow—one
of pa’s constituents —had called, and how much she hoped
that Mr. Blank Dash would call again. The visitor gasped,
“ Mr. Blankey Dash from Tin Pot Creek ? Why that man
is the rejected suitor for the hand of my cook whom he
pesters with his attentions, and is assistant to my butcher,
my dear ! ” She had to fly for burnt feathers then ; and
when Victoria came too, she slowly realised that it isn’t un-
alloyed joy to have a pa who has to entertain vulgar
“constituents” unawares."
Whenever anybody of “quality” looms on the Aus-
tralian horizon, lo and behold there will straightway rise
up an aunt or a grandmother this side of the line who is
unmistakably related to the impending personage. This
time it’s the new Governor of Victoria—Hopetoun—who
has discovered an uncle in the shape of the Hon. Louis
Hope, a Queensland squatter. The vice-regal nuukey is
at present in England with his wife (Blush Bose No. 2,
who is a Queensland lady) and family, but intends return-
ing io Australia in the same ship as his exalted nephew—
going overland to Bananaland from the Cabbage I‘lot.
Which reminds me that if Henry Geoi-ge strikes Australia
he will be crowded out with relations, Mrs. Henry being
about as Australian as they make them.
Metrop. day at Bandwiok on 24th ult. drew a far more
brilliant crowd than the Derby, and some very pretty
spring gowns were worn. The Baron, in beaming spirits
and a top-hat, chaperoned quite a large party, and the
proceedings were marked by a general gaiety not cus-
tomary at a Sydney omnium gatherum. Apropos of
Lord Oarington, it is again announced that he resigns the
vice-regal sceptre next year, and finally vanishes over the
side of a P.-aud O. steamer, and though it’s only a whisper,
the concluding stanza of his Ring’s School oration gives
colour to the report. He said: “ I sincerely thank you
for the kindly reception . . . and if I do not have the
pleasure of seeing you again I wish you . . . every
possible success,” &c. Which had such a final sound that
Sappho sniffed audibly.
Talking of “ relics,” have you ever observed that the
woman who is loudest in her grief has generally consoled
herself within the year ? A “ tragic figure ’’—who indeed
is emulous of Mrs. Privett and is already two widows—
resides at a Sydney suburb, and is now on the point of
espousing No. 3, poor man ! She was so sorry that she
had to be held hack from jumping into the open grave of
each dear departed, and, swooning heavily on the
arm of the chief mourner, had to be carried off the
ground every time. Well, the last Mr. Johling has only
been an angel nine months, and already the wedding-dress
has come home 1 I don’t know what colour it is. It was
pearl-grey last time, and, as No. 2 wilted rather suddenly,
a kind of shot-blue would about meet the case, I think.
At the desire of the Secretory of State, Sir Unfurl-the-
Plag Robinson looks in at London before repairing to the
vacant throne at Perth (W.A.). He leaves Lady Robinson
behind, which quite reverses the usual order of things, Sir
William having heretofore always been the grass widow.
Lady Robinson, who has taken ahouse at Bowral(N.S.W.),
will take up her residence there about the middle of
October, returning to Melbourne after the departure of
the Lochs.
Randwick has been “extensively dolled up” for the
Spring meetings, and the nice tea-pavilion and re-
organised ladies’ retiring-room are too “sweet” for
words. I don’t know what we should do without that
nice retiring-rOom. Which reminds me that it’s the
correct thing to be pale this season, pink cheeks having
quite gone out. But you mustn’t —for you simply can’t —
achieve the fashionable pallor with pearl-powder ; it’s
only to be managed with a wash—those girls who attempt
it by leaving powder on an inch deep only looking impos-
sible. As for powder, nothing amuses me so much as to
see the stage lover clasp his dear, rustic darling to his
false, not to say padded, bosom and to notice the white
impression the size of a cheese-plate which his trusting
pansy-blossom leaves thereon !
A bevy of aristocrats who are doing the —ah —kawlinies
and are related to no end of earls and ladies, are at pre-
sent putting up at a very fashionable Sydney hash-house.
are a source of gratuitous amusement to the other
hoarders—who usually have to pay to witness good clown-
ing—for their chief amusements at dinner are pouring
custard down one another’s backs and flicking pieces of
jam and butter across the tabic. The other day some of
the hurtling marmalade fell on a lady’s dress, and the
noble projector didn’t even oiler a comment, but when a
piece of butter struck him on the coat he wiped it off and
remarked, as if the whole table breathlessly awaited
results, “No mattah, weally. My man will take it right
out with wawm watah.”
Apropos of weddings, it’s a sign how 7 frisky the times
are getting that many married -women now leave off their
wedding-rings—when out dining especially. Certainly
the “ calamitous plain gold band ” looks homely and'out
of place when the wearer is up to her knuckles in precious
stones, and as the idea of diamond-buckle wedding-rings
didn’t catch on—men have some sense occasionally—l
really can see no other resting-place for the plain circlet
than the wash-hand stand, can you ? Of course the real
reason frisky matrons leave off their rings is because they
wish to masquerade as unclaimed violets and be
called “miss” and flatter themselves that the double chin
isn’t so very noticeable after all, and carry on kittenishly
in the conservatory. But though no matron should lay
aside the marriage symbol it’s quite on the cards that the
women can wear too many of them at once. For instance,
Mrs. Blank, of Potts Point, buried two husbands whom
she equally adored and to keep whose dual memory
verdant, she wore both wedding-rings. This looked
simply awful, as no doubt you remember, and people used
to snigger heartlessly at such a display of liberal affection.
Of course the titter reached her ears, and wishing neither
to excite ridicule nor jilt either shade, she had both rings—
thick ones, by the by—melted into one and wore a regular
dog-collar round her third finger ! And the snigger kept
on as usual.
I suppose I must say that the St. Vincent’s ball on the
25th ult. was a paralyzing success, as there were hosts
of people, a-might-have-been-worse-flqor, good music,
excellent catering, and the Baron, but owing to the throng
the top of the vice-regal head was all that was occasion-
ally visible, while the awful “ Kanahookas ” met with on
the crowded floor have left a lasting impression on your
Sappho’s shoulder-blades. It was impossible to grasp the
“ gowning.” In a vague manner I determined that
creamy tints had all the running—that one or two baggy
“ Art” gowns, which ought to be described as “ fancy”
articles —suggested a blushablc absence of supporting
whalebone as usual, and that the bean-pole girl in pink-
veiling, with a satin bodice, rotated with her head on her
partner’s shoulder—also as usual. Lord Carington, who
danced but once, opened the ball with Mrs. Prendergast-
and withdrew at a very early stage in the proceedings—
leaving, however, some of his exquisite satellites behind.
Yet another Spavined aristocrat hooking for Australia
“for the good of his health”—Lord Downshire, who
leaves in the Britannia with Lord Hopetoun, and will shed
the lustre of his measles, or whatever is wrong with him,
on the various vioe-regal houses of call in the beastly
kawlinies. Let’s hope he’s not catching. And, speaking
of itinerant lordlings, Lord Dunlo—who evidently doesn’t
mean to bore us with his company, as he has promised to
be back in London before January, ’oo—met with a little
accident whilst viewing Vesuvius. The earth gave way
and he fell into a small crater and was almost smothered
by the “ sulphurous fumes.” Tract-compiling evangelists
please note. What warning similitudes could be drawn in
the vividest word-painting from the above mishap, and
gently wriggled under Dunlo’s door-mat!
If the corner-stone of Victorian society weren’t so
amazingly loyal and wouldn’t permit anything of the kind
for any consideration whatsoever, I should say that the
Cabbage Garden’s silver-wedding gift to Albert Edward-
two beer-jugs and a wassail cup, trimmed with laughing
jackasses, iguanas, and a gross or two of snakes—was a
nasty, sarcastic allusion as to how those years of wedded
bliss have been helped along. Anyhow, the snakes are
rather cruel.
So the little vice-regal stranger is again a daughter,
after all the hopes and prayers fora sou and heir! During
her illness Lady Carington was attended by Dr. Chambers,
who said the other day that he wished all his lady patients
were as tractable as “ Her Excellency.” Lady Carington
hopes to he present at the first ladies’ concert of the
Orpheus Society early this month.
A rather moderate crowd filed into the g.s. on Sydney
Association ground on 28th ult. to view the Eastern
Suburbs Sports, the contestants in which were chiefly
remarkable for rather giddy running-costumes of the
gaudiest dye procurable. And there were some fearful
frocks on view. One girl, who must have understood
that it was “ fancy dress,” wore grey veiled flimsy muslin,
puffed sleeves of the muslin, and a queer “ Granny ” bon-
net, also of the muslin. Another had a scantily-veiled
mauve satin under flimsy black lace, and w'ore a high hat
ornate with blue ribbons and a red feather; while another,
in Indian-red button-holed with yellow over a tight white
petticoat, looked as if she’d got loose in her tea-gown.
It’s a charming delusion—that lovely woman is always
brimming over with kind thoughts and considerate deeds,
isn’t it? On a tram-car, the other day, a man gave up his
seat to a “young lady” and received the customary
eloquent silence as she sat down. In a few minutes in
came a male friend of the lady’s, and when, after a while,
she rose to leave, she said sweetly to him : “ You can have
this seat now, Adolphus ” —and fluttered out of the car.
Then the man who had given her the resting-place, and
who still stood, took a long, deep breath, and the guard
came round for “ more tickets, please.”
Miss Lilian Gilmore, accompanied by her mother, has
gone over to Melbourne. “It may not be generally
known ” (although it has been published a dozen times
over) that Miss Lilian is engaged to-oh, such a nice
young man! who resides in the marvellous capital, and
perhaps the wedding will eventuate in March, which is all
that can be said at present, except that it is not every
Jack who can have his Gill-more.
At a recent club bachelors’ hop held in Sydney it was
remarked how pokerishly some of the dancers went
through the squares, giving tips of fingers and stall-,' up
and down as if they were going to be executed. A i s
the more surprising as the very latest lords out. uom
“Home” dance the squares at a great “butt,” romping
through them like a pack of breaking-up-school girls.
Since it’s “ correct ” and most enjoyable to frolic through
the Lancers, wherefore this unnatural starchiness?
Speaking of dancing, before you go over for the Cup
learn the Scotch reel and the Minuet de la Cour. But
grapple with the reel firstly. Everybody in Melbourne is
taking lessons in it, classes are expressly formed for it,
and it’s to be a prominent item on every ball-programme
during Cup week. The sudden popularity of this fatiguing
and non-sentimental jig is, of course, to be attributed to
the impending braw vice-regal Scot, who, with Lady
Hopetoun and twenty-six retainers, leaves for Australia
on the 18th inst.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Bathos is a thing that, as a rule, finds no
place in these columns. We are compelled to
make an exception in favour of Bathe’s Baking
Powder.
It is an undisputable fact that those pros-
trated with mental worry find immediate relief
from the internal application of Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine.
We understand the Harvey safety
kerosene lamps have been adopted as the most
effective for lighting our trams. These excellent
lamps should prove a great boon to the travelling
public.
All the talent of America, allied with that
of Hunter-street, lias failed to turnout from Wyn-
yard-square a publication equal to The Bulletin s
“History of Botany Bay,” profusely illustrated
by L. Hopkins and Phil. May, price Is.
Bollinger’s champagne is a favourite
beverage of the crowned heads of Europe. This
is a good recommendation even in q democratic
community, for mouarchs who have weak heads,
know, better than most folks, what is safe to take.
Certain light-hearted lads of Tarnagula,
(Vic.) stoned a Chinaman some short time ago.
lie was shortly afterwards found naked and foam-
ing at the mouth by a policeman who took him to
the hospital. Much sympathy with the lads is
felt throughout the district, as it is feared the
Chinaman will die out of spite towards them.
“Get out of my way !” “ Step off in the
mud yourself. The walk is as much mine as it is
yours!” The first of the two speakers was the
possessor of an incipient boil on the back of the
neck. The second had just got a letter from home
announcing that he was the father of a pair of
lusty twins. The fight which took place on that
narrow sidewalk was the most desperate ever
known in the history of the town.— Chicago
Tribune.
That good, old, speculative party, the
Duke of Manchester, who, when he is at home,
resides at Kimbolton Castle, and who has visited
Australia once or twice on the distinguished dead-
head ticket with a Trans-continental railway
scheme or some other little monetary job, has a
son and heir whose title is Lord Mandeville. Mr.
Man Devil is a nice bird. At Bow-street Police
Court, King, a London cabby, applied for an
assault-summons against Bessie Bellwood, the
serio-comic singer. King swore that he drove
Mandeville up to Bessie’ residence at a late hour,
when that festive person, failing to get in otherwise,
clambered from the top of his cab in at a bedroom
window and showered down curses and so on upon
his head when he demanded his fare. King then
returned at 12 o’clock in the day (Mandeville owed
him also £3O) and waited outside till 9 in the
evening, passing away the time by the consump-
tion of sandwiches, stout, and cigars while eliciting
from Pollie, the little niece of Bessie, the infor-
mation that “ Uncle Kim ” was snug in bed. At
9 o’clock Bessie and “Kim” came out and were
about to drive away in her brougham when King
interposed. While he was struggling with Mandc-
ville, Bessie struck him several times across the
face with her cabman-beater, and they drove off
triumphantly. Magistrate Bridge severely repri-
manded King for hanging around the house of a
“lord’s lady ” for nine hours, and only granted the
application on a second appeal, while, he granted
Mandeville a summons against King with alacrity,
and absolutely refused a cross-summons to King.
Bridge is the man who refused Simms a summons
against the Shook of Gampbridge, and Mande-
ville’s wife is the lovely and accomplished Mile.
Y znaga.
We knew that Melbourne never was
By any means too slow ;
This point has struck us oft before,
The Bishop proves it so—
’Tis plain the town is troubled with
A great deal too much Goe.
CWUSHED AGAIN.
The Baron waited down below
In deep vice-regal thought;
He paced his study to and fro—
What had the doctor hrour/ht ?
And when “ another girl ! ” they cried
In accents of despair.
The Baron yawned, and went outside
To get the sun and air.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Pepita.”
Her Majesty’s “ Julius Osesar.”
Criterion. “Sophia.”
Opera House London Pavilion Co.
School of Arts Snazelle.
Cyclorama “Battle of Gettysburg.”
Elite Skating Rink York-street.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK,
Alexandr a “ The Beggar Student.
Opera House Shakespeare.
Theatre Royal “ Human Nature.”
Princess’ “ New Magdalen.”
St. George's Hall Professor Kennedy.
Victoria Hall Minstrel Co.
The fantastic “ Mikado," although a lug
draw at Sydney Royal, is not what it used to be.
Miss Barnett, Woodfield, Forde, Bonham, and
Boyle have lied Titipu, leaving behind them
memories that sorely handicap the wearers of
their discarded raiment. Yum-Yum, Ko-Ko, and
Pish-Tush, barring an occasional straining after
effect, are as good as they’re manufactured, but
other parts, sometimes vocally, in other cases his-
trionically, and in some instances both vocally and
histrionically, are feebly sustained. Leumane's
Nanki-Poo is badly “ made up,” and his vocalisa-
tion, good in solo, is faulty, so far as time is con-
cerned, in concerted numbers. As the Mikado,
Walter Marnock looks and acts the part com-
mendably, but his v ocal efforts were marred by
bad enunciation. In this respect he was not the
only sinner. The libretto of most comic operas loses
little through indistinct utterance, but Gilbert’s
lines are so good, and, as a rule, so much a part of
the story, that any failure to convey their meaning
not only mars that number, but interferes w ith the
homogeneity of the whole opera. Imano, in ap-
pearance, more Japanese than most of the other
chaps, sings well, especially in concerted pieces,
but his representation of Pooh-Bah, the Lord
Bacon of Titipu, contrasted with that of his pre-
decessors, is not calculated to enthuse. Fanny
Liddiard has not the physical presence and
dramatic force necessary for the pourtrayal of ■
Katisha, and May Pollard, in Pitti-Hing, is appar-
ently‘ill-suited. The chorus-singing and orches-
tration are worthy of high praise. Gilbert’s
weak point is termination. Surely the first act
should close in the midst of Katisha’s failure to
unmask the disguised prince, and not on her dis-
comfited exit, while the curtain drops finally on a
situation that is weak in every respect. “Pepita”
and that impossible bull once more take the floor
at the Royal, this Saturday evening.
# -;K- #-
Brilliant, witty comedy apparently appeals to
only a small section of the Sydney community. The
public occasionally likes to have its marrow frozen
by blood-curdling tragedy, its soul harrowed by
melodrama, its ears titillated by melodious opera,
but never fails to enjoy the rib-tickling of broad
farce. Life is a serious affair nowadays, and folks
visit theatres to be amused and to efface care and
wrinkles in a series of broad-grins. For this reason
“ Rocket,” well-staged, well-played and laughable,
at Sydney Criterion draws much larger houses
than did the immeasurably superior piece of stage-
craft that preceded it. At each visit we beheld
ponderous men leaning heavily with their chins on
the plush-back of the dress-circle, who in the
intervals of cachinnatory convulsions breathed
sirocco-like blasts on the pearl-powder protected,
V-shaped intervals that confronted them, and
other parts of the house were equally well-filled.
No one will grudge the hard-working, painstaking,
and courageous management their success. The
company, strengthened by the travelling contin-
gent, will reproduce “ Sophia ” on the week’s last
legal evening.
lic-
it is now universally admitted that “Julius
Csesar ” is the biggest thing of its kind ever
attempted in Australia, and our American actor-
cousins freely admit that plays are never so well
staged in America outside of New York and
Boston, and seldom so well even there. One
feature of this performance is the appearances of
Caesar's shade at the tent of Brutus on the
plains of Phillippi. The ordinary stage-spectre
walks around in a healthy, ponderous, flat-footed
fashion ; his impalpability is too heavily clothed
in a tightly-fitting costume of adipose tissue
to deceive the eye of anyone accustomed
to spirits, undiluted or otherwise, for the
ordinary stage apparition is usually a very stout
gentleman who plays the part simply because
sheeting is inexpensive and the management could
not afford to purchase the requisite quantity of
black velvet for the clothing of his superficial area
as Hamlet. Now, at Her Majesty’s, ghosts of this
solid and fleshy character are unknown, the dis-
embodied Julius comes and goes in an inexplainable
fashion and were it not for the indefiniteness of
outline, and the Chinese sort of perspective that
pertain to him we should feel surprised at Brutus’
failure to offer his “old pard ” a bowl of wine. On
Thursday 300 students visited the theatre and to-
night (Saturday) Phil Beck, owing to Cathcart's
engagement to G. C. Miln in Melbourne, replaces
him as the noble Brutus. The old man’s was a
very, fine performance, and B. B. will require to
hustle to get even with him.
-*- sc- SC- Sc-
The attendance at Sydney Opera House
during the past week has not been overwhelming,
and folks are inquiring why a magician who can
get more out of a small tin-can than most people
can produce from the bowels of a Saratoga, fails to
fill his benches by mere sleight of hand, and may
not evoke audiences from the folds of a pocket
handkerchief with the same facility with which is
produced farm-yard fowl and other small deer.
Legerdemain and diablerie give place to the
London Pavilion Company of the enterprising
Hiscocks during the succeeding week.
Sc- Sc SC- St
Thirteen hundred people attended the
Cyclorama on Sunday last, and the week-day
attendances are quite up the average.
Sc- * SC- sc-
The approach of Summer has closed every
metropolitan skating-rink except that of tie
dauntless and indefatigable Skinner, who still-
continues to annex treasures in York-street that
will go a long way towards the erection of a brown-
stone Paradise on Fifth Avenue (N. V .) or in the
fashionable quarters of Chicago.
?K'
Hard work must be telling on the W. G.
& M. opera crowd, for on Tuesday night Fanny
Liddiard was also unable to appear and Katisha was
played by—-and fairly well played, too, under the
circs—Eva Leamington of the “Fun on the
Bristol ” Company.


Ben Franklin Printing 1 Office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, &c., &c.,
SUITABLE FOR
Public St Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates. A Large' Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET, SY9NSY
(Near Wynyard Street).
Use Bathos Baking Powder,
Despite the clamours and calumnies of
Pastor Stiggins and Evangelist Chadband large
numbers of the Sydney populace feel convinced
that true morality and honest enjoyment go hand
in hand, and so the cool breezes of Bondi and the
sweet harmonies of its Sunday concerts never fail
to attract a crowd.
iff iff iff *
An engagement at the Alcazar Theatre,
San Francisco, prevented the Katie Putnam Co.
from indefinitely extending their very successful
season at Sydney Gaiety, and so they sailed in the
Mariposa on Wednesday last for the land of
wooden hams, good actors, and bad play-wrights,
and were accompanied to the Heads in a steam-
launch by a number of the warm friends made
during their short stay in Australia.
iff iff iff iff
The predicted changes have taken place in
the Santley Concert Company, At the new short
series of concerts, which will be given in the small
but elegant Y.M.C.A. Hall, Seymour Dicker, a
Brisbane organist, will take the place of Benno
Scherek and his clever wife, and Armes Beaumont
will sing instead of Mr. Kennedy. These changes
are said to have been partly brought about through
the influence of Madame Christian, who, having
travelled with R. S. Smythe so many years, ought
to know a little about concert management,
iff iff iff iff
Mr. Snazelle, whose portrait appears on
this page, will make his first appearance before a
Sydney audience on Saturday evening next at
the School of Arts. The entertainment which
ho has made famous in the Old World, under
the title, “Music, Mirth, Song and Story, Pic-
torially Illustrated,” seems to be admitted on all
hands a novelty of a highly artistic and interesting
character. Commencing his musical career as the
leading baritone of the Carl Rosa Opera Company,
Mr. Snazelle soon conceived the idea of combining hi s
high vocal and dramatic abilities with the unique
scenic possibilities afforded by a new invention
iu pictorial art discovered by Professor Huddle-
stone of the Polytechnic Institute, with the result
that “Music, Mirth, Song and Story” has made
his fortune. Professor Huddlestone accompanies
Mr. Snazelle with a mechanical staff, and the
costly and elaborate apparatus involved in the
production of the performance which the Sydney
public will have an opportunity of viewing on
Saturday evening, when a crowded house may be
regarded as a certainty. Mr. James M‘Mahon will
direct the season.
* iff * iff
The concert given by M. Kowalski and
several other musicians at the Protestant Hall
last week was chiefly remarkable for the appear-
ance of Mrs. Yanderveer Green, a lady with an
exceedingly fine, highly-cultivated contralto ; and
the lecture of Sydney’s favourite pianist, which
was too funny for anything,
“He Hr
A series of orchestral and vocal promenade
concerts are being given in that finest of Sydney
halls, the Darlinghurst Skating Rink, by an or-
chestra 56 strong and many well-known singers,
under the leadership of Signor Hazon. It is some-
what of a disgrace to Australian musical percep-
tion that so admirable a conductor should have so
long sat down as a mere looker-on. The first con-
cert, on Saturday night last, was excellently
attended and was altogether a very pleasant affair;
it could hardly have been otherwise, considering
that for a shilling people heard the artistic Buzzi
at his best, and Mrs. Vanderveer Green, that
charming contralto whom you always want to hear
again, and Mrs. MacDonald, and Daddy Halle-
well. and Poussard on the violin, and Lemmone
on the flute —not to mention a large variety of
other enjoyable items. It is to be hoped that Mi-.
Otton's expensive promenade concert scheme wil I
be a financial success. Anything which discour-
ages the stiffness and formality of the conventional
entertainment is a step in the right direction.
Wilkie Collins’ death lent gloomy interest
to the revival of his “ New Magdalen ” at Mel-
bourne Princess’s. Mercy Merrick has been
before novel readers and playgoers for well nigh
20 years, so she is not now such a new Magadalen
as when she first changed garments with Grace
Roseberry, and usurped the rights and privileges
of that decently-behaved young virgin. Grace
and Mercy, it may be remembered, got entangled
in the French and German “lines,” while the
simpletons constituting those two great military
powers were murdering one another for twopence-
halfpenny per day. An emperor and a king—
both of whom are jolly well bruised now—con-
trived to stand out of danger and boss that ac-
cursed conflict. The king was generally knocking
stuffing out of the emperor’s lot, and after the
enemy had retreated he would sit upon the heaps
of slain and write out this famous message for Ids
old woman—
Dear beloved Dueen Augusta,
We’ve had another buster;
Ten thousand Frenchmen sent below—
Praise God from whom all blessings flow !’*
Hous King Billy ! He became an emperor, too,
before Nicodemus raked him in—but to resume.
Mercy Merrick was a soiled dove, atoning for her
giddiness by nursing the wounded and binding up
their broken bits. Grace somehow wandered into
those “lines”—which didn’t appear to bo cast in
pleasant places—on her way to billet herself upon
a British titled relative whom she had never seen.
When a cannon ball in the head laid Grace low,
Mercy assumed the character of long-lost niece
and had a luxurious time with the titled relative,
until Grace proper turned up, having been relieved
of her cannon-ball by a German surgeon. They
were terribly rough on Grace when she came
slangwhanging the woman who had jumped her
claim. They used to put her outside on the mat,
and ask the nearest lunatic asylum to please call
tor one mad female immediately, and oblige. But
meanwhile a curate was moving Miss Merrick to
repent of her imposition and leave off being a
miserable sinner. She finally succumbed to the
reverend exhortations of this long-winded tract
just as a dingy keeper from the asylum wanted to
run the real Roseberry into her padded cell. Then
Mercy found grace, and Grace found mercy. An
incidental lover, who once intended to marry
Mercy with the full approval of his mother, cried
off when he found the repentant one had graduated
in a refuge for fallen sisters, whereupon the curate
annexed the New Magdalen with a snuffle of ever-
lasting joy.
* * *
Everybody knows that this is a strong
play under favourable conditions. Mr. Charring-
ton, in the part of Rev. Julian Gray, is not muon
'>l a favourable condition. His assumption of
muscular Christianity and righteous radicalism
seems a flabby mockery, all the more irritating
because Herbert Flemming, who has natural quali-
fications for such a part, is doomed to stand in the
background and see it spoilt by an alleged “star.”
true Mr., Charrington resembles a curate now, as
fie did in “ A Doll’s House,” but he is cast in the
tea and croquet mould, has a slim, sleek, self-
sufficient personality, and might be mistaken for
a redeemed Bunthorne. It is not Miss Achuroh’s
fault that her talent was exaggerated in prelimi-
nary notices, and that, considered as a phenome-
non, she disappoints the soul. No bright,
intelligent acti’ess can help making a success as
Mary Merrick, still the success of Miss Achurch is
not remarkable. Ada Cavendish, the original in
this character, made it half as big again. A fine
facial actress, Miss Aehurch wants more ballast
and breadth of style, while her voice—the familiar
voice of Ibsen’s “Doll -is altogether grayeyardy
and unsympathetic. Miss Maud Williamson’s
finished performance of Grace Rose berry over-
shadows the other lady’s effort somewhat. She is
physically and artistically, taking one considera-
tion with another, the most effective artiste in
Australia at the present moment. Good old Mrs.
Bryer misrepresents the titled relative, and a few
outsiders are pretty shocking.
* * X- *
At Melbourne Opera House, last Saturday,
a revolution took place in the east of “Othello,”
whereby the moral influence of that tragedy
tumbled out of gear. Mr. Miln charged lago
with good results, so far as the lying Antient was
personally concerned. He loaded up the character
with florid devilment and grim humour, although
sometimes going out of his way to hurl a crafty
reverie or a whispered aside into the top gallery.
In his former place, however, appeared a pon-
derous old Moor who prowled about in a
frowsy dressing - gown, and hadn’t brushed
his hair for centuries. This unimpressive
ruin turned out to bo Mr. W. H. Leake,
honourably identified with a nubbly mariner
named Jeff in “ Hans the Boatman. ” Desdemona
hung round Jeff Othello’s neck and pretended to
think he was too sweet for anything, but the folks
in front considered it was a case of unnatural
affection, arising from softening of the brain.
Miss Kate Douglas cut only a moderate dash as
the gentle Dessy, knd Miss Louise Jordan was
unable to show in the part of Emila, owing to
indisposition. Nothing has gone wrong with the
scenery, however, so “ Othello ” will boof the
bolster to satisfactory business until they set up
SNAZELLE.
“Antony and Cleopatra ” on a scale of delirious
splendour. This coming spectacle is to include
barbaric supers measuring twelve feet in height
and three yards round the chest, as near as money
can procure,
** * *
“ The Beggar Student ” has caught on at
the Alexandra, with a fair all-round grip, and
“ Silver Falls,” at the Royal, are making a loud,
damp splash in the limelight until Friday. For
Saturday is promised another touch of “ Human
Nature,” a drama which snavels the whole bun for
white-headed cussedness and centenarian sin.
Feather-weight General Mite and his tiny pansy
blossom are on view at the Athenaeum. Mesmerist
Kennedy is dosing his faithful subjects with castor-
oil at St. George’s Hall, also a minstrel crowd ap-
pears to be pegging along prosperously at the Vic-
toria. Furthermore, and likewise, the “ Battle of
Waterloo” Cyclorama holds its place, while the
Royal Museum is regarded as a tilling entertain-
ment at one shilling.
-Mf *-
A big Baby Show, promoted by Mr.
Alfred Dampier, takes place at Melbourne Exhi-
bition Building on the last three days (3rd—sth
Oct.) of this week. Mr. Dampier has been incited
to this enterprise not less by an inherent love for
young humanity and a desire to stimulate pro-
duction of population for this great country, than
by a natural ambition to make a profit for the
concern. Any decently-conducted baby show is
bound to be a howling success, and the one started
to-day threatens to cut the record. Upwards of
2000 pure and innocent Victorian natives., ranging
from the bald-headed hard-starer of three months
to the early Christian of two years, are expected
to roll up to this competition, bringing their
mothers and a quantity of other relatives with
them. No less than 80 couples of twins are entered
for the struggle, and several bunches of trip-
lets have been fresh gathered for the occa-
sion. The prizes in each class run as high
as a “tenner,” while the champion infant
will reward its parents for their trouble with a cool
£5O. The old rooster will annex that “ half-cen-
tury ” for beer, probably, leaving his hen and chick
to cackle over the certificate. We are not dis-
posed to mock at a Baby Show, merely because it
isn’t a display of dogs, pigeons, horses, or fat
cattle. The spectacle of two thousand babies, ar-
ranged in rows, suggests splendid possibilities, and
should have a humanising effect even upon
bachelors. Of course heartburnings and domestic
broils must result from the prize awards. Angry
and unreasonable fathers will want to throw baby
out of window when mamma brings the darling
back without so much as an honourable mention,
for the whole beginning, middle and end, of a
father’s love is a belief in his offspring’s superex-
cellence. Some of the more inflammable mothers,
too, are pretty likely to throw their babies at
Dampier when they don’t take the championship ;
others will just drop them about the show and feel
no further interest in the silly things. Which re-
minds us that all unclaimed babies are to be sold
to defray expenses.
* # #
The champion prize at Alfred Dampier’s
colossal Baby Show at Melbourne Exhibition is
£5O, to be awarded by the votes of the spectators
as expressed by them on the coupons of their
entrance-tickets. The Bulletin proprietary give
a prize of £5, to be divided between the ugliest
baby and the kid that howls most.
** * *
That piece of howling idiocy, “ The Grass-
hopper,” has been revived at the Theatre Royal,
Adelaide, by the Jennie Lee Company, but after
a most satisfactory opening night, interest in this
entomological drama has gone flat —andean it be
wondered at ? A more inane insect has seldom
emerged from the chrysalis into public notice.
“East Lynne” is a heavenly production in com-
parison. Maggie Knight, Flora Hastings, J. H.
Clyndes, B. X. Jones, George Walton, Edwin
Kelly, and other capable artists are to be pitied.
“Jack in the Box” to follow. Cogill Brothers
are doing very good business at Garner’s Theatre.
These burnt-cork celebrities have a strong com-
pany at their back, and the show should boom
along for some time.
The Society Times says that “ Struck
Oil ”■ was first produced in Melbourne eight years
ago, and wants to know, in the face of its success
there, why no one is enterprising enough to pro-
duce it in London. Now, it is at least 15 years
since the Williamsons came to Australia with
“Struck Oil,” and it is strange that a London
writer does not know that after leaving here, ere
returning to settle down in Australia, they played
it and other pieces in London at the Adelphi with
much success. Then, again, J. 0. Williamson and
Maggie Moore are in Australia and in the flesh,
and without them a production of “ Struck Oil ”
might fail to strike oil.
* -X- •»-
In conversation with a Sydney newspaper-
man, David Christie Murray appears to have
made some most absurd remarks as to the word
“Lecture” stinking in the nostrils of Sydney
people. Now, here are two or three facts on un-
doubted authority : Chax-les Clark, by lecturing in
Australia, paid off all his large debts incurred
through mining swindles, and made an indepen-
dence ; Richard Anthony Proctor cleared £6200 in
seven months; Forbes, by his lectures and news-
paper articles, made £8000 in Australia; Von
Finklestein (who is still at it and doing bigger
business than ever) cleared £5000 by her first Aus-
tralian tour.
* & *
It is now pretty clear that “ the Marble
Man ” did not originally come from Cow Flat,
but was imported from Italy. Nevertheless, the
N.S.W. police have quite enough sworn testimony
on hand to convince any jury (from whom the
evidence of importation was hidden, as it easily
might have been) that the Marble Man was made
at Cow Flat and by the hands of Sala. People
should bear this in mind when next they find
themselves in a jury-box.
* *- *-
We learn from New Zealand that Exhibi-
tion Joubert, having failed to secure the * * triangle ”
for a theatre, has had one built in the centre of
the Exhibition Grounds. Lincoln, Maceabe, and
Kennedy, all monologuists, are already booked to
show there. Why Joubert went to Dunedin for a
“triangle” w© don’t know- N S. Wales is the
place for ’em.
At Poverty Point.
It is said that Sims Reeves will retire in December. We
may expect him out here in January then. He’s been
singing for 40 years, while Santley has been earning large
salaries for over 30.
Blondin has been offered and has accepted a wager of
£4OOO to walk on a cable from the Eiffel Tower to the
Central Dome of the Paris Exhibition in less than five
minutes.
W., G., and M. have engaged Mr. William Walton and
several other artists who produced the successful specta-
cle, “ Umba,” at Arcadia, for their pantomime season in
Melbourne.
Miss Agnes Thomas, who created the title role in
Boucicault’s charming comedy, “ The Jilt,” will be Miss
Rose Ooghlan’s leading lady in “ Jocelyn ” at the Baldwin
(N. Y.) Theatre, and John Sullivan will be her leading
man. The play was written for Mrs. Langtry, but a little
tiff between the author and the actress gave Miss Coghlau
the chance to secure it.
Minnie Palmer’s husband and trumpet-blower, Mr. Jno.
Rogers, is very fond of telling his friends how he made
Minnie Palmer. Nobody, however, shows any anxiety to
know how anybody made Jno. R. Rogers, says a London
paper. '
Unlike some professional ladies we wot of, who travel
oil “ good advertisement,” no matter of what sort,
Michael Maybrick has withdrawn his name from the con-
cert programme at Her Majesty’s Theatre, and will, con-
sequently, not appear this season.
“ Love ! ” exclaimed Gounod one day, in one of those
iits of self-abandonment in which he indulged very readily
among sympathetic companions—“ I am absolutely full
of it, and that is why I have crammed such handsful of
it into my operas.”
Shakespeare foretold that cable-faking business:—
“ Their Herald is a pretty knavish page.” (“ Love’s
Labour Lost.” V. 2.)
_ “ Boys have been substituted for the gyrating ballet
girls in Pain’s Last Days of Pompeii, at Manhattan, and it
is not unusual to see a sylph-like fay, while executing a
double revolution, expectorate skilfully into the wings,
with an accuracy of aim which would have delighted Max
O’Rell."—Ex.
Mr. Brash; I! Did you know that a famous play is to he
brought out here? It is terrible, so immoral, so .”
Mr. Fash: “Hush! speak lower! You will make my
wife insist upon going !
Mrs. Kendal, the famous English actress, is the youngest
of 22 children.
On dit that Maud Williamson, of the Melbourne Prin-
cess, has married the doctor of the ship that brought her
over.
Warming-pan Wobinson has written a song, “The Poet’s
Dream,” for Madame Bentami.
Miss Myra Kemble has arrived in London, and in a
private letter states that the first theatre she visited was
the Vaudeville, which she describes as a bandbox of a
house. In company with Mr. and Mrs. Plain Bill Holloway
she witnessed a piece entitled “In Danger,” written by a
clergyman and actor (Church and Stage again). She was
much impressed with the piece and is negotiating for the
Australian rights, as the leading part suits her. Sydney
Brough, Robert Brough's nephew, was in the cast and
him she eulogises as “ a lovely light comedian, natural and
fresh as. paint and the most perfect image of his uncle.”
Miss Kemble was also struck with the acting of Miss Marie
Linden. She describes Blackmore’s theatrical agency office
as resembling a servants’ registry. Actors there, and good
ones, consider £lO per week a colossal salary, and she tells
a direful tale of many who are out of employment and
would be glad of an Australian engagement.
Two “pros.,” one of them in a very mixed condition,
were wrangling the other night as to their respective
abilities at singing and walking. Said the mixed one;
“Look here. I’ll run you ‘KiUarney’ or sing you for a
100 yards.”
Liddy has relinquished the management of Brisbane
Opera House and will shortly return to Sydney. Garry
Bennett, late with W., G. and M., has accepted the post.
Baldwin’s Butterflies was the only show in Brisbane last
week. They performed at the Gaiety.
Tom Howe and Lou. Braham, when with the Federal
Minstrels way up North, one day walked into a pub. and
asked the landlady for some aqua pura. “Verysorry,
sir, but we don’t keep it,” was her reply. “No?” said
Braham, “it’s a very popular brand.” “I must tell my
husband then,” said the simple landlady, “ we always likes
to keep the popular brands.”
It is asserted that Mesmerist Kennedy utilises the
kerosene-oil he causes his subjects to swallow, by putting
lighted wicks down their throats and using them as cook-
ing-stoves.
The “boss coon” of the Fisk Jubilee gingers has made
£15,000 by the Australian tour. “Black-face” melody is
waning as a draw when accompanied by mirth and irrever-
ence ; hut, when taken in conjunction with hymn-tunes
and a harmonium, it is just as good a oash-compeller as
ever.
The Southern Amateur Theatrical Society played
“ Blow for Blow,” on Monday night, at Sydney Academy
of Music. We were there, and for once The Bulletin is
compelled to admit that under certain circumstances, tor-
ture, particularly when administered by amateurs, is a-
complete deterrent.
Hugo’s Minstrels opened at Auckland Opera House on
17th Sept. The “Spanish Students” are the great draw.
Miss May Waldron, an American actress, has reduced
her weight from fourteen stone four to nine stone, to
qualify once more for juvenile parts.
They want to make Jo-Jo pay dog-tax in Brisbane.
Mr. James Albery—the well-known author of “Two
Roses,” “ Apple Blossoms,” “Oriana,” “King Kino,” and
the adapter of “Pink Dominoes”—is dead. He went to
the dogs after the success of the “Twoßoses;” like many
a good man, he could not keep his head in prosperity.
John Rogers having stated that in order that he may
he able to spend more time with his wife, Minnie Palmer,
he has handed over the management of her private busi-
ness affairs to other persons, New York Truth says that
John is going into tho collar-and-cuff business and intends
to take advantage of Minnie’s tour by travelling with her
and carrying samples of his goods to trade off in the
various cities. The Bulletin doesn’t know anything
about John R.’s knowledge of the collar-and-cuff biz., hut-
can vouch for his front.
Rumour has it that Manager Solomon has leased
Ooogee Aquarium.
Walter Keen, the Australian oomique, is now at the
Olympic Theatre, ’Frisco, and had made a great hit with
a song written by himself and dedicated to Bruiser Sul-
livan, entitled “ I’m not dead yet.”
An actor, who shall he nameless but lately engaged
with the Katie Putnam Co., was the other night, during
a performance, halloed to by a pitite thus: “ Now, then,
Blank, act up,! you’re not in the waxworks I”
“ Johnny ” Solomon once told a Sydney inspector of
police, who remarked that he had been 27 years in the
force, that it was time he “ had a gaol of his own.”
Bill Nyesays: “The peculiar characteristic of classic
music is that it is really so much better than it sounds.”
Priscilla Verne was showered with bouquets on Hugo ! s
opening night at Auckland (N.Z.), and the lady was so
“ overcome” that she shouted “Hurrah for old times !”
Grattan Riggs having concluded a successful season in
Brisbane passed through Sydney on Monday on his way
to Melbourne, hut will return there shortly with a new
play, named, we believe, “The Irish Detective.” N.B.—
The latter part of this par is sheer “ sarkasm,”


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile*
ken’s Beacon stick! House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
For solid comfort, excellent table, cheerful, airy
bedrooms, a central and quiet neighbourhood, commend us
to “THK LANGHAM HOTEL, - ’ Wynyard Square, Sydney.
The Proprietress fully maintains the high reputation this
Hotel has always enjoyed. The terms are very moderate,
and we strongly recommend visitors to the metropolis to
give it a trial.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
—A—
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM
High Art Photography.—For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONT
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington “By Appointment.”
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least doxible that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
Jamea Inglia & 00.,
4 & 0 Dean’s Peace, SYDNEY.
“The Mythical Sundowner.”
Dear Bulletin, — I notice in your issue
of September 11 a contribution entitled “ The
Mythical Sundowner, ” which, I must say, is cal-
culated to convey an impression erroneous as that
which it is designed to correct.
In what part of the civilised world and in what
grade of society, under circumstances and condi-
tions favourable to his development, is the profes-
sional loafer and potential sundowner not found ?
’Tis a, spirit : sometimes it appears like a lord,
sometimes like a lawyer, sometimes like a philoso-
pher ; he is very often like a knight, and, gener-
ally walks in all the shapes that man goes up
and down in from fourscore to thirteen. Given
the opportunity to loaf, and you can trust our poor,
trail human nature to supply the loafer. Great
is laziness and she will prevail. Millions breathe
but to inherit her forever-lounging spirit. This
spirit may equally be tabernacled in the bedizened
body of the heiress hunting assassin-officer or in
the rag-clad anatomy of the fragrant hanger-on
at a country pub. Nothing short of the mutual
police system of ideal Socialism will ever
shift the beggar I use the title not in-
advertently, but advisedly and critically. Never
believe but that the Riverina shanty of the present
day witnesses many a modified repetition of the
sejne at Pousie Nansie’s a century ago, when
those tuneful sundowners held the splore, to drink
their orra daddies. Ask any elderly and ob-
servant Irishman whether he ever saw a beggar-
man, and mark his answer—mark his answer, I
say, for you can thereby determine his religious
persuasion : if he be a member of the dominant
class, he will, whilst admitting the cxiste me of the
Irish sundowner, carefully impress on you that the
individual in question is invariably “more Popery
than fiscal.”
# * *
You will become giddy in attempting to trace
the origin of the loafer —the blue-gown, gaberlunzie,
beggar man, sundowner, sinecurist, &c., being, of
course, sub-species, each developed by special con-
ditions favourable to its particular growth. Mem-
bers of this ancient order stretched their logs
(saving reverence of the word) under Ulysses’
mahogany whilst the absent hero made his-
tory in a manner which reminds us of Baron
Munchausen. Back, back in dim epochs which
have left bub scanty relics, the pre historic
sundowner performed his diurnal journey from
one lacustrine dwelling to another in his bark
canoe, while the Swiss mountains—fit type of his
own interminable continuance—catapulted ava-
lanche after avalanche at his invulnerable head.
Back, back in the very earliest of the perished
civilisations—in fact, since the invention of lazi-
ness—the sundowner has been an institution ; in
this secondary sense, and in no other, he may be
termed “mythical.” And wherever food is to be
obtained without the vulgar equivalent of work,
there the sundowner of the present day sits, like
Patience on a monument, smiling at his unearned
increment —namely, his pannikin of flour.
# * #
The social and economic conditions of Rivemia
being perhaps even more favourable to the
perpetuation and advancement of this ancient
and time-defying cult than are the traditional
usages of the upper and upper-middle classes
of Great Britain, it would be rather sur-
prising if, as your contributor says, “The sun-
downer or Murrumbidgee whaler has no existence
and never had.” I grieve to say I have seen the
sundowner in force —not merely seen him, for,
being a nobleman at large rather than a Knight
Companion of the Bath, he generally appeals to
another sense—wasting his sweetness on.the desert
air anywhere and everywhere between the Murray
and the Darling. He does not by any means
“carry his swag from station to station, travelling
a score of miles under a burning sun where water
is often unobtainable.” Not at all; that is more
like what an independent, self-respectingman would
do. Your gentleman-sundowner does not disdain
the simple hospitalities of the contractor’s or rab-
biter’s or bullock-driver’s or drover’s camp ; and
true men will not insult the submissive, be he ever
so worthless. Do not imagine that he necessarily
bakes his pannikin of station-flour at once ; his
constant care is to increase his slender store so
that he may retire to some secluded bend where he
can mend his diet with a few cod-fish (hence the
name “ Whaler ”), and fleet the time carelessly as
they did i’ the golden age. His wants are few
and simple; he wears cast-off clothes ; and eating
is, in a great measure, an acquired habit. The man
who, in lieu of honest “callusses ” on the palm of
his hand, is distinguished by knuckles of aboriginal
blackness, perennially lustrous with the gloss
which blankets alone can give, is not easily
starved. Starve ? quotha ! —starve a blackfellow.
* * *
Neither is it fair to the squatter to assume that
his hospitality to travellers—which, by the way,
is preposterously over-rated by every writer I have
met with—is intended by him as a menace to his
employees or is ever interpreted by them as such.
It is simply a pastoral tradition which cannot be
abruptly swept away. The type squatter, iu spite
of his unkind and insolent attitude toward
drovers, carriers, See., and his unrelenting ani-
mosity to selectors, is by far the most considerate
and indulgent employer in Australia; and, as
might be expected, his employees are devoted,
body and soul, to his interests. This is very
beautiful in the present, but may be most disas-
trous in the future. It means imquestioned lord-
ship and contented peonage—it means caste. By
and bye, a king arises who knows not Joseph ; the
population begin to press upon the means of sup-
port, and the canaille are counselled to eat grass.
Ask history what follows,
# * #
But a drove of 300 sundowners is just the sort
of mis-statement we should expect to find in an
English magazine. The writer referred to by
your contributor has ignorantly confounded with
this base and helpless class the honest workers
who, as the shearing season approaches, come
from Victoria and eastern Now South Wales like
lions from the swelling of Jordan. These are the
very antitheses of the sundowner —active, emu-
lous, independent and capable men ; they appear
by hundreds in the early spring and disappear as
.summer approaches. Your true sundowner will
scarcely accept the easiest work of a rouseabout in
the shearing season : at any other time he will not
work. At Willandra, a few years ago, I saw
12 out of 13 sundowners refuse 15s. per week —with
board, of course—for burr-cutting; the offer being
made to them by the station storekeeper as he
served out the traditional pannikin of flour and bib
of raw mutton. To be sure, 15s. per week is
far below the average revenue of royal or aristo-
cratic loafers, but it is ample compensation for
riding a quiet horse seven or eight hours per diem,
vyhile you carry across your saddle-bow the
lightest hoe known to the hardware trade. I felt
interested in those 12 princes. I sought their
society that evening in the rouse-abouts’ hut by
the woolshed, and I can safely say that I have
seldom spent three hours more pleasantly or pro-
fitably. The conversation, so far as I remember,
ran entirely on the subject of station hospitality
to “ travellers.” In the darkness of the hut, gruff
voices and squeaky voices and drawling voices and
snuffling voices rose here and there from the bunks
iu championship or condemnation of names fami-
liar to the pastoral ear as wicked words—Tyson
and Landell and Locky, of course—Sammy Wil-
son, Ole Rio, Hungry This, Gentleman That,
Charley Officer over on the Port Phillip side, <feo.
As an evidence of Conservatism, I noticed that
though these hidalgos necessarily associated daily,
more or less, with the few inhabitants of those
lonely plains, they always spoke of the Cabbage
Garden as “Port Phillip,” of the Holy Land
as “ ’tother side,” and of Australia as the
“ Sydney side.” It was the honest impression of
every one of their Serene Highnesses that a squat-
ter’s pastoral license contained a provision binding
the feoffee to supply to each and every professional
knight-errant, on demand, the traditional panni-
kin of flour. So that, you see, the sundowner
claims his tribute by imagined authority of law as
well as by indefeasible divine right.
# * #
On the approach of intenser civilisation the true
gentleman-sundowner folds up his tent like the
mallee-hen, and as silently steals away. I was on
the Murrumbidgee when the north bank of the
river became suddenly busy by reason of the
construction of the Junee and Hay railway line,
and I noticed, as one marked change in the old
order of things, that the sundowner, for a time,
ceased to peregrinate up and down the river eating
Jacky Dow’s mutton,
* * *
We have already seen that the representative or
typical sundowner never dies. It is questionable
whether even the individual would die —seeing
that he is never sick, never was any younger and
never grows any older—but that he is subject to
accident. During the protracted floods of 70,
many of these unfortunate waifs—no one knows
how many—perished miserably, marooned on in-
sulated patches of higher ground along the rivers
or drowned as their refuges became submerged.
Casualties of many kinds thin their ranks, and re-
cruits are not so plentiful now as 20 or 30 years
ago. The old economic systems which produce
and tolerate social extremes are dying out—dying
hard, certainly, after the manner of abuses, but
dying, nevertheless.
* * *
Still, while human nature sports into so many
varieties and degrees of laziness, the sundowner
proper will never fail; men may come and men
may go, but he goes on for ever. Pastoral in-
terests may wax and wane : stations may be in-
corporated, divided, sold, or foreclosed ; managers
may die, resign, be sacked, or received into part-
nership ; the Mantchoorian boundary-man may
supersede the Indo-Germanio, but while there
exists a circuit of stations as a basis of operations
the phoenix-like sundowner shall flourish in im-
mortal youth.
WARRICAL JACK.
A MELBOURNE SENSATION.
Melbourne, Thursday.—Thos. Downes and Marian Ponto, were to-day charged with stealing the furniture
and property of the latter’s husband, who is employed in Cameron’s tobacco factory. Downes, it is alleged,
eloped with Mrs. Ponto and her children, selling all furniture. —Daily Paper.
It was a giddy Melbourne man
Who, tired of single life
And seized with a romantic fit,
Resolved to choose a wife !
He chose another party’s wife ;
1 le chose his kids as well —
1 I.e also chose his furniture
(The latter he could sell).
The injured husband gnashed his teeth.
And started in pursuit,
He soon o’ertook the bridegroom
With the bride, the kids, the loot.
And then occurred what play-wrlghts call
A Thrilling Situation ;
A guilty pair—a husband wronged ;
They meet! (see illustretion).
“ O, give me back my familee,”
The outraged party cried,
“ O, give me back my children three,
Give back our mutual bride ! ”
“ Yes, give me back my furniture
And all that I love best—
Or, stay! give back the furniture
And you may keep the rest. ”
( Curtain.)
The Philosopher of Eiverina.
(For The Bulletin.)
When a man can work on the foibles of others
and fail to smile : when he segregates their shekels
(put a ? there; I’m dubious, but it sounds well),
and when he arrives with a swag but departs on a
charger (Note I.), he is entitled to the name of a
philosopher. So I grudge not the name, but I
grudge half-a-easer. (Note II.)
On the oonteenth of Oomtember a little fellow
arrived at Rluegurn. His assets were a leather
bag (last time 1 saw him he had it slung round his
shoulder and was talking about the Barwon, which
is a Oalembour). Somehow or another he got to the
boss's house, and explained that he was travelling
agent for a certain newspaper. It is really the
best paper in the colonies, being just the size for a
sandwich and cake, and there is nothing that a
vestal virgin might notjead in the printed matter.
Maybe, aiblins and perad venture that is the reason
that nobody ever reads it. The name is seductive.
It is called the Damper Gazette. (Note III.)
When you have assimilated (’nother?) all tins,
bear in mind the fact that the boss and his missus
wished to let the drummer down mildly and rele-
gated him to the jackeroos. (Note IV.) The
latter saw fun and entertained the angel un-
awares; i.e , unaware of the fact that they were
being had. (NoteV.)
After discussing the Gazette and getting one
sub. at £0 per annum, cur little friend stated that
he was a phrenologist, and would lecture and read
the heads first to pass a quiet evening. This he
did and scored (Note VI).
Next evening he gave the same entertainment
to the (excuse me, your Greek type ain’t handy)
Hoy Polloi in the shed—the woolshed, you know—
where fly-flats breed, and he read their heads for
some time, making each flattered flat sign his name
after being called a second Ciesar or fourth N apoleon.
The paper was only an order for what I shall so
ably describe under note 11. And here I must
tell you that the stale, old joke was played up on
the philosopher of letting him understand that
the idol of the station was a (eighteen blanks, and
refer to Scotty for the words) scoundrel, and he
did read him off; said he would lie to you and
look you in the face, would only avoid robbing for
fear of the law, was an embryo murderer, and so
on. But human nature couldn’t stand it; so he
closed his portfolio when dags (Note VII.) began to
fly at him, and next morning he departed to work
out his scheme on a grander scale. 1 expect to
hear of a buggy soon ; at present he has my horse
on tick and me on toast. For the use of the police
I shall just read Ms bumps.
A facial angle of the lowest type. Cerebrum, if
it’s the good part, nil, cerebellum immense. If
I’m wrong say vice versa. Cheek, tremendous.
Knocker, unlimited. Brass, unfathomable. Ap-
petite, fair to cautious. As regards spirits, he
won’t booze when he’s on the job. Thus you see
that, even with a telephone at the station, shearers
and rouseabouts are the same. They’ll pay to be
told they’re fine fellows. It’s a change after the
beaks (Note VIII.)
I’ve been using expressions which I have picked
up in the Salvation Army ; so read my notes for
explanation.
Notes.
I. “Charger” : many wish that instead of it the article
had been the same on which the Baptist’s head was re-
moved,
11. “Caser” is Jew slang for a crown. The phrenolo-
gist’s impudence crowns all.
111. Cos’ you cuss when you find it’s unreadable.
IV. “ Jackeroos” are Jackeroos.
V. When had, you’re done brown.
VI. Score ; 20—the amount per £1 stolen.
VII. “Dags”: woolshed rubbish.
VIII. “Beaks’’are bills, true bills against shearers.
Scotty The Wrinkle r.
The Fruits of Philosophy.
The philosopher is even more so than I thought.
He asked the gentlemen of the intermediate
quality if they’d like his statements in writing.
“Oh ! yes, just as a souvenir.* But he billed
them for seven-and-sixpence apiece. What ho
charged the Government House I don’t know, but
he, like the man in St. John (not Baptist) climbed
in another way and nobbled the servant-girls
half-bull. He told her she’d marry 15 squatters
and die a widow and be buried in a golden coffin
under wattles. Here is a sample of his “ Phreno-
logical Analysis of the head of B. Lud. Thunder
Esq., sheep-farmer.”
Sir,—You have a very fair mental development, and can
s:-e through a millstone when the spindle is out and you
are sober. You have a tendency to drink cheap beer. I
should advice you never to do otherwise. I don’t. You
will, as you advance in years, get older, and if you do not
turn bald may become grey and honourable, which, I re-
gret to say, you are not now. You have great capacity
for sport of a rough kind, such as heaving bricks anil
eorroborees. The Oueen would repose implicit confidence
in your courage, loyalty, and good behavour ainono- re-
treating niggers.- Yours sincerely, A White Jonuxe.
An Ex-Digger’s Growl.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
This life is gay enough at times,
But still it has its heavy spells,
The weary curse of slinging rhymes
When wages, not the will, impels—
The “horrid grind” at “pointed pars.,’*
The articles with headache crammed,
The column sket h, hot off the bars,
' That “ must be funny ” or be damned.
My flaccid muscles seem to tweak
To feel the windlass pull and strain,
To shake the cradle by the creek,
And puddle at the “ tom ” again.
Ah ! pen for pick is no poor swap
When o’er the slides the waters flow,
A pile of half-ounce stuff on top,
And fifty feet on wash below.
’Twas lightly left, ’tis lately mourned,
That life in Tanner’s eight-by-ten,
When coats with yellow clay adorned
Were good enough for gentlemen,
And Sunday’s best was Monday’s wear,
When Rennet gave us verse and book
Poor Phil ! a crude philosopher,
Rut, bless his heart, a clever cook.
A high old time we had, we three —
Our darkest clouds with sunshine laced —
The pipeclay soft and dry at knee,
A foot of washdirt, easy “faced,”
And none to say us aye or nay
Did we resolve to slave or smoke—
The pan was ready with the pay
E’en though the toil was half a joke.
’Twas good, when “spell-oh ” had been said,
To watch the white smoke curl and ' ling
Against the gravel roof o’erhead,
The candles dimly flickering
And circled with a pallid glow—
To sprawl upon the broken reef,
And pensively to pull and blow
The fragrant incense from the leaf.
And where Hie torpid Wondee’s tide,
Untainted by the Stafford’s sloughs,
Pellucid in its pristine pride,
Stole sleeplessly beneath the boughs,
It was delightful toil to lay
The dish within the flood, I ween,
And puddle off the pug and clay,
And pan the golden prospect clean.
In hours of indolence and dream
I swirl the old tin dlfeh again,
And Wondee’s lambent waters seem
To lave my brow and lap my brain :
And, from the ravished hillside, come
Paint clamours on the fitful breeze
And mingle with the crooning hum
Of insects ill* the drowsy trees.
The barrels rattle on their stand,
And in the shafts the nail-kegs swing
The short, sharp strokes of practised hands
Are making pick and anvil ring.
The slothful echoes dally so,
They blend with splitter’s measured i h
The cheery cry, ‘ ‘ Look up, below ! ”
The muffled call of ‘ ‘ Heave on top ! ’
No piles were made on Pinafore,
Here Nature’s hoards were hard to find,
And though we skimmed the golden store,
We left the richest stuff behind—
Contentment, freedom, careless ease,
' And friendship which —a long-felt want—
We never meet in towns like these,
’Twas not the kind that cities haunt.
The day is done, regrets are vain,
I cannot eat my cake once more,
The crumbs of comfort that remain
I won’t despise for feastings o’er ;
The life I loved best, boy and man,
Was digging-days by flood and field,
The gladsome graft with pick and pan,
The pay a problem till the yield.
EDWARD DYSON.
A Rockhampton correspondent points out,
in support of cremation, that two local grave-
diggers recently discovered a skeleton face down
in its coffin. We have noticed that the Rock-
hampton man when dead-drunk generally does lie
face-down.
A Melbourne Herald reporter complains
that at the latest local hanging he had to endure a
weary 15 minutes’ wait before the drop-scene came
on. This serious complaint should be investigated
with a view to improvement next time; punctu-
ality is the soul of business and early first editions.
A German resident in England thus writes
to a London paper :
A few weeks ago I resolved, for the first time, to write
a humble letter to the police authorities in a large city of
Prussia, asking permission to visit it to see my aged father
and mother, who are feeble in health, and who would like
to look once more upon their son’s face before they die. 1
left home at the age of 20—18 years ago—and before I had
served in the army. Soon after I wrote, my father re-
ceived an order to appear before one of the Imperial ser-
vants, whom they call in this land of freedom, “ Policemen
on Duty.” My dear old father, 75 years of age, reported
that his son—the only one—was in London, and was told
that if I agreed to pay a fine of £C 10s., undergo six weeks’
drilling and six months’ in fortress, I might return and see
my parents. This my father wrote with tears in his eyes
and a trembling hand, at the same time committing me to
the care of the Almighty. It would have been a great joy
for me and my parents to have met, but under these cir-
cumstances we shall meet no more.


The 1 Qe* Crl OPTIMUS
Marvellous 1 Ob. DU, WATCHES.
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better t han a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. It not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
X«A.T»JX3 AG-EKTTS,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &c.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed List Businesses for Sale Issued Daily.
All Lists posted Free on application.
Personal Items.
They call Sir William Robinson the vice-
regal warming pan.
Gladstone has only to live till December,
1890, to eclipse Palmerston’s record for longevity.
Baggy eyes and crimson noses are now all
the rage in England. The dear Prince wears his
that way.
Lady Guinness has given an order for a
diamond ornament, value £25,000. The good old
“Pig ” brand.
’Tis said in Victorian legal circles that Dr.
Madden’s moustache spoiled his chance of a
Supreme Court judgeship.
Mr. Hay, of St. Andrew’s College, Sydney,
is said to have become a millionaire by the death
of David Berry, of Shoalhaven.
The Prince of Wales has been. publicly
rebuked by a Mohammedan preacher for teaching
the Shah to gamble and drink.
One of Lansell’s mines at Sandhurst is
now down 2640 feet. If there is a material hell,
no doubt George will get there yet.
An English contemporary asserts that the
Prince of Wales is getting very short-tempered.
Let it be His Rile Highness in future.
Queer coincidences sometimes happen.
We see in an English paper the announcement
that a Mr. Hayter has married a Miss Pulsford.
During the British naval manoeuvres Prince
George was so upset by the motion of his torpedo-
boat that he was compelled to land at Waterford.
A Melbourne leader-scribe writes of hav-
ing his “ piece ”of mind destroyed. The assertion
is, perhaps, necessary to those who never read his
articles.
The old guerilla chief, Te Kooti, is again
airing his grievances, and is being coached up in
Pakena law by W. J. Napier, a smarty N.Z.
lawyer.
Thos. Reilly pleaded guilty of the murder
of Epple rather than be defended by an assigned
junior barrister. This shows that he knows a
thing or two.
Of the 24 members returned at the first
Australian Parliamentary election in 1843 but one
now survives—the octogenarian, Sir Charles
Nicholson, who lives in England.
King Kalakaua, of Hawaii, being unable
to visit Paris Exhibition because he gambled away
all his money at poker, has written a volume on
the “ Fables and Folk Lore ” of his own people.
An action for libel is being taken against
a Melbourne paper for statements made by it in
respect to a certain person who financed for Mr.
Jubilee Juggins Benzon when the latter was in
Australia.
The King of Italy corresponds with his
queen when parted from her by means of the
phonograph. And, by the way, a New York
butcher uses the same instrument in the collection
of orders for meat.
Boehm, R.A., has executed, to the order
of Queen Victoria, a colossal bronze statue of
John Brown, which has been erected in the
grounds at Balmoral Castle. A commission in
lunacy ought to ensue.
A Brisbane paper ;—“ Mrs. E. Lynn Lin-
ton, the novelist, was the first English woman
journali-t.” Why, Harriet Martineau wrote
leaders for the Daily News very many years
before anyone heard of Mrs. Linton.
In these days of pulpit-preaching against
the stage, it is quite refreshing to remember that
one of the best comedians Australia ever saw—J.
C. Lambert—carried round the plate every Sun-
day for the Rev. Mr. Handheld at St. Peter’s,
Melbourne.
Queen Victoria’s eldest daughter, the
Empress Frederick, has £60,000 a year from Ger-
many and all her children are well provided for ;
nevertheless she hangs on to the English Parlia-
mentary grant of £BOOO a year made to her upon
her marriage in 1858.
Edison, how the lion of Paris, is 42 years
of age. He commenced life as a newsboy, and is
the inventor of the automatic telegraph repeater,
the carbon telephone, the phonograph, the aero-
phone, the phonometer, the electric pen, and the
quadruplex system of telegraphing.
Says Mr. David Christie Murray *
No man who knows the world of books and men can
fail to be struck by the fact that there is a certain smack
of whisky and water and a sense of late hours about Aus-
tralian verse so far.
How strongly these Cockney writers are attached
to gin-and-soda!
“Gentlemen of the jury,” said the only
forensic orator of New South Wales, “the case
for the Crown is a skeleton - a mere skeleton. I
say it is a skeleton, gentlemen, for, as I shall show
you, it has neither flesh, blood, nor bones in it.”
And yet the client was sent up for about half a
century.
Gladstone, it is cabled, in a letter to the
Sunday Observance Congress attributes His long
life and the good health which he has enjoyed very
largely to the fact that it has been a rule of his
life to do no work whatever on Sunday. The re-
sult, we irreverently presume, would have been
equally good had he chosen Friday to rest on.
The Maybricks, says a London paper, had
a pretty fine collection of skeletons in their cup-
board. Some of Madame’s misdoings we know of,
and now it is asserted that the deceased gentle-
man had his little branch establishment in London.
Mrs. Briggs seems to have been the busybody of
the family, and Mrs. Maybrick lias to thank that
lady and Nurse Yapp for most of her troubles.
Theatrical-manager MacMahon visited Cal-
lan Park Asylum, Sydney, the other day. Stand-
ing on the other side of a deep trench, he-a
deadhead for the nonce—-watched with painful
interest the gambols of an agile lunatic, who at
length got tired, either of skipping or of being
looked at by MacMahon—and bawled out with
his arms akimbo to a brother crank : “ Come here,
will you, and help me to amuse this intelligent
monkey ?”
Lady Chute, the widow of Sir Trevor
Chute, is residing with her N. Z. relatives at Auck-
land. Her husband, who was one of the few
capable Imperial officers who took a hand in the
suppression of the Maori rebellion of ’6l, died a
couple of years back, and her ladyship now de-
votes her life to kindergartens and charitable con-
certs. “Piano solo, by Lady Chute,” always
draws an audience of the few Auckland grandees
who are not bankrupt.
“Colonel” Victoria’s private fortune, so
far as known, is thus made up ;
(1.) Balmoral, Osborne, and Claremont, worth £700,000-
(2.) Neild’s legacy of £240,000, with interest for, thirty
seven years.
(3.) Increased revenues of Duchy of Lancaster, and
average savings on the Civil List, £54,000 per annum.
(4.) What was left by Prince Albert.
This review shows that the Queen could afford to
give all her grandchildren annuities as great as
those which fall to the younger sons of dukes.
Mrs. Grant, the wife of the deceased
General and President, has cross-eyes. When
they got into White House she consulted an
eminent oculist who promised to put them (her
eyes) straight without risk. She had intended to
surprise Grant; but, woman-like, gave way when
next she saw him, and told of her little plan.
Looking at her wistfully he said simply and ten-
derly ; “ Julia, I wish you would not change them.
I love them as they are, and they might seem
strange if altered.” She didn’t trouble the pro-
fessor.
It was reported that Hangman Berry was
so convinced of Mrs. May brick’s, innocence that
he would decline to hang her. On being asked if
the rumour was true he denied it without hesita-
tion, saying, “ I have made all my arrangements
for the execution, and unless Mrs. Maybrick be
reprieved I shall carry them out. I have no busi-
ness with the guilt or innocence of a condemned
person. I have simply to carry out the law, and
if the sentence is wrong the blame will not be with
me.”
Morgan Augustus M‘Donnell (father of the
well-known amateur cricketer of that name), who
died recently in Melbourne, was an English Roman
Catholic barrister of considerable ability, though
unsuccessful at the Bar—the result of a mild and
gentle temper, which should not be a part of a
lawyer’s stock-in-trade. The only gentle barrister
we have ever known to thoroughly succeed was
George Higinbotham, who, by the way, always
entertained the strongest aversion to cross-ex-
amining female witnesses.
All London was puzzled to account for the
removal of the sheep from the Green Park. It
seems that on the occasion of the Shah’s visit, six-
teen years ago, he secured admittance to the park
for several evenings in succession, and remained in
solitary meditation for an hour, the public having
been excluded. In the morning after each of these
visits the park-keepers invariably found three of
the sheep with their throats cut. The police took
it for granted that this was done in accordance
with some religious idea of the devout barbarian,
and now the sheep are carefully removed to avoid
placing temptation in the Shah’s way.
POLITICAL POINTS
Of the strong Ministry which passed the
first Protectionist tariff in Victoria in 1865, but
four remain in the flesh —M‘oulloch, Michie,
Verdon, and Higlnbotham.
The action of certain members of the
N.S.W. Opposition with respect to the Illawarra
harbour scheme casts strong suspicion on their
bonajides as representatives of the people.
Sydney Evening News is very solicitous
about the N.S.W. Education Act. The Act will
never meet with any opposition more formidable
than the bad English in the News columns.
The Brisbane papers arc, with one half-
hearted exception, out and out Free-trading
organs, and, therefore, not one of them will make
a casus belli of the late Freetrade coup d’etat in
the Cabinet.
Harold Stephen (who wants to play anti-
dote to his baneful uncle, Sir Alfred of that ilk)
says he will trouble the N.S.W. Assembly with an
anti-flogging discussion at much greater length
than the recent one.
OVERHEARD IN THE TRAM.
No. 1: “YOU ORT TO ’AYE ’EARD DEAR MR. VARLEY’S SERMON ON ‘THE
TORMENTS OF HELL-FIRE FOR SINNERS.’ IT WAS A REAL TREAT,
BUT I AM AFRAID IT WAS QUITE THROWN AWAY.”
No. 2.: “ I DESSAY, MY DEAR —ONLY A TRUE KERRISTIAN COULD
APPRECIATE IT, AND THEY ARE SKEARCE NOWADAYS.”
The N.S.W. Roman Catholics are all
charged with being Protectionists. Yet a big
demonstration in Bathurst to start a Protectionist
paper, where a bullock was roasted whole and the
chief speaker was a Catholic, was held on Friday !
Sir Benjamin Benjamin has entered the
Victorian Legislative Council cn the alleged
strength of a 4000-elector requisition. The
mighty Sir Benjamin Benjamin will do as well for
the Council as any other little gilded parcel of
adiposity.
It is a ghastly thing for men who run daily
newspapers for the purpose not only of making
money but of consummating political land-jobs,, to
find themselves denounced in their own organs by
their own leader-writers—who “didn’t know it
was loaded.”
The Queensland Parliamentary Represen-
tation Society, the work in chief of Christy Clarke,
its president, and which aims at the return of
labour candidates for the back-blocks, now num-
ber over 10,000 members, and its finances are iu a
condition equally flourishing.
Lord Randolph Churchill, says London
Echo, has eight followers in the Commons. They
are Mr. Hanbury, Mr. Jennings, Lord Curzon,
Mr. E. W. Becket, Mr. Stavely Hill, Mr. Brooke
Robinson, Mr. Henniker Heaton and Captain
Edward Heatheote.
Governor Hopetonn, the infant who is
being sent to govern Victoria, is styled “a dark
horse ”by the Tory English press. We strongly
suspect that he is the sort of “ dark horse ” that
the bookmakers call a “stiff ’un ” or “milker,”
and runs in Imperial interests.
Democrat William Saunders, a member of
London County Council, fancies he has dis-
covered among some musty Acts of Parliament
“ a law commanding the taxation of land-values
where the land is unused. ” The British single-
taxers intend to take the matter up by means of a
test case.
“Your English working man is depen-
dent,” said a member of the American working
men’s deputation, on passing through London on
his way to Paris. “Ours are independent; your
people seem to passively acquiesce in the prevail-
ing idea of your upper class that manual work is
ignoble ; ours would ridicule such an idea.”
Griffith is credited with contemplating a
lengthened visit to England, partly to enjoy a
well-earned rest, and because there is such flimsy
chance of his side returning to power during the
tenure of the present Parliament, at least. Con-
jecture is blind as to who would run the party iu
his absence. There is no one to play even third
fiddle.
The Bill to legalise trades-unions was only
carried in the Tasmanian Assembly by the casting
vote of the Speaker. 'That such a Bill should
have to be introduced at this period of the century
ami that it should be only carried by such a
majority in the “popular” Assembly is a sufli-
e'ent proof of the miserable benightedness of tin*
land which was erstwhile \ andemonia.
“The Northumberland (N.S.W.) miners
will put forward at least two of their own men
next election, now that payment of members is an
accomplished fact. ” Who shall say, in the face of
this, that payment of members is not conducive to
proper representation? We hope the miners will
put up two good real working-men representatives,
and that the illiberal Mr. Joey Greer —who, on
four questions out of five, is a Tory-will get his
walking-ticket.
Pattison strikes the key-note of Queensland
politics just now. “Billy” was taken into the
Ministry without portfolio as a, representative of
Central Queensland and as the boss of Mount
Morgan, and everyone thought he was-going to do
the figure-head act. On the reconstruction of the
Ministry when MTI wraith went to Japan,begot
a department, which he proceeded to “ run ” like
blazes. Now, to the astonishment of his colleague s,
“ Billy” is more or less running them like b;azes.
He is the man who has bounced out MLlwraith.
The labour organisations all over Aus-
tralia took up the Dock Labourers’ Relief Fund
with the most unselfish enthusiasm. The small
sum realised in Tasmania lias been spoken of.
Yet the following samples of the generosity of
Tasmania Labour may be taken as typical 01 all
the rest. The wharf labourers gave £4O, leaving
themselves with £l5 in hand. " The bootmakers
gave £25, their all, and so did the tanners and
curriers, the bakers, bricklayer's, and shipwrights,
all of whose funds stand at the present moment
at zero.
In order to test the intelligence, liberality,
and sincerity of female advocates of universal
suffrage, it is proposed to draw up a Woman’s
Charter, a definite programme to which they may
subscribe. Here is the test;—
(1.) Are you in favour of illegitimate children being
declared legitimate on the marriage of the parents ?
(2.),Are you in favour of compelling a man to provide
for his illegitimate children according to his means, and
also for his honest concubine ?
(3.) Are you in favour of treating illegitimate children,
on the father’s death, on the same footing as legitimate
children ?
(4.) Are you in favour of granting a divorce to a wife on
the same grounds as a husband may obtain a divorce ?
(5.) Are you in favour of allowing a proportion of women
to sit on juries when a woman is being tried ?
(6.) Are you in favour of allowing women to enter the
army as clerks, nurses, and ambulance corps ?
(7.) Are you in favour of opening all the professions and
public services to women ?
(8.) Are you in favour of a special tax on women
possessed of separate incomes above a certain amount for
the benefit of old and young women in distress ?
Beneath is a declaration of the principles
of the Boston Nationalist —a ten-cents monthly
magazine-one of the most succinct expositions of
the evils of the existing social condition and of the
aspirations of those who seek to alter it that tve
have seen :
The principle of the Brotherhood of Humanity is one
of the eternal truths that govern the world's progress on
lines which distinguish human nature from brute nature.
The principle of Competition is simply the application
Of the brutal law of the survival of the strongest and most,
Buuning.
Therefore, so long as competition continues to be the
ruling factor in our industrial system, the highest de-
velopment of the individual cannot be reached, the
loftiest aims of humanity cannot be realised.
No truth can avail unless practically applied. There-
fore those who seek the welfare of man must endeavour
to suppress the system founded on the brute principle of
competition, and put in its place another based on the
nobler principle of Association.
But in striving to apply this, nobler and wiser principle
to the complex conditions of modern life, we advocate no
sudden or ill-considered changes ; we make no war upon
individuals ; we do not censure those who have accumu-
lated immense fortunes simply by carrying to a logical
end the false principle on which business is now based.
The combinations, trusts, and syndicates of which the
people at present complain, demonstrate the practicability
of our basic principle of association. We merely seek to
push this principle a little further, and have all industries
operated in the interest of all by the nation—the people
organised—the organic unity of the whole people.
The present industrial system proves itself wrong by
the immense wrongs it produces ; it proves itself absurd
by the immense waste of energy and material which is
admitted to be its concomitant. Against this system
we raise our protest ; for the abolition of the slavery it
has wrought and would perpetuate, we pledge our best
efforts.
David Berry, of Shoalhaven, N.S.W,, has
“ gone over,” aged, it is said, 100 years. He is
believed to have been worth three-and-a-half mil-
lions sterling, the probate duty on which wfll be
some little help towards swelling Treasurer
M‘Millan’s next quarterly surplus. Mr. Berry
has left the Presbyterian Church £30,000 ; also to
a Scotch University, £lOO,OOO, and £lOO,OOO to
maintain a hospital at Berry (old name Broughton
Creek,, but changed in honour of the defunct).
David’s brother, Alexander —who was here in the
days of Governor Bligh—died in 1873 at Crow’s
Nest, St. Leonards, aged 93. David Berry ex-
pressed a wish, a few months ago, to see the
N.S.W. Premier, who went to Ooolangatta and
spent a day with the old man.


Political Hypnotism.
MESMERIST PARK ES: “YOU BEE, I HAVE BO COMPLETELY MESMERISED THEM WITH THIS HERE, THAT I SHADE NOW PROCEED TO MAKE THEM SWALLOW NO END OF UNPALATABLE STIFF AND THEY
WILL SEEM TO LIKE IT.”


Another Centennial statue.


“HOG’S HEAD” BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
X" ■
Weight and duality Guaranteed,
p. B. WHEELER & CO.,
265 Clarence Street,
S Y ID 3ST IE Y.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Franks ton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
F. W. .IOV5O\, Pitman's I'crliOmtcd Teacher.
Shorthand taught in 26 Half-hour Private Lessons—Pee
425. Reporting Style or Finishing Lessons successfully
given by post—Course of 13 lessons, 215., or 2s. per lesson
Pees in Advance.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Opened a
Also of the wonderful
Magnificent Lot of Alew Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard. Uebel, rsnrich Linn
Victor Pianos at £45 and Estey Organs. No such Variety or" Value
Roniscli, Bhthner, Collard, and other
elsewhere for Cash or Terms,
Society
On Monday it w r as cabled that the Earl of
Hopetoun had ordered in Edinburgh 300 suits of
livery for his servants. It is understood that he
will b ring with him 30 Jeameses. The other 270
suits, we presume, will be donned with enthusiastic
alacrity by the most influential worms of Toorak.
It is really time that
a law were passed making
it illegal to wear livery,
which is a sign of slavery.
When you see a physi-
eally-handsome man in
livery driving a rn’serable
little wreck who happens
to have money, the livery
is to let you know that
the little wreck is a
superior creature; and
when you see a handsome
coachman driving a beau-
tiful woman whose hus-
band is a Mr. Maybrick,
the livery is to make you
aware that the young and
handsome man’s name is
not exactly Maybrick.
# * #
It is nob true that
Lady Oarington and
Essie Jenyns have entered
their respective infants
for Alfred Dampi e r ’ s
show.
* * *
A large number of
N.Z. ladies are patenting
inventions of their own.
We don’t find Australian
women patenting any-
thing yet. An offensive
Yankee says that N.Z.
is 2000 miles nearer
America than Australia
is, and the Australian
women are therefore 2000
miles behind the N.Z.
women. N.Z. is east of
Australia, and that has a
tendency to make people
get up earlier in the
morning.
* # #
A tx-agic story from a
Melbourne suburb : A
homeless dog wandered
into the house of a resi-
dent and coiled himself
up in the cradle beside the
baby. The dog had the
mange—the baby took it
from him. When he
came home in the even-
ing the fond father of the
baby proceeded to nurse
it as usual, with the re-
sult that he also has the
mange—in his whiskers.
The tragic part of the
affair lies in the fact that,
though married, he was
known as an indefatig-
able ladies’ man. Ho
is so no longer. Local
society is not over-
fastidious and can stand
a good deal, but it can’t
stand that.
A music-hall ditty in
honour of the union of
Louise and Fife has a
lively chorus of which the leading sentiment is
that Fife is : “ The luckiest fellow that ever you
saw, for he never need be frightened of his
mother-in-law. ”
* * #
A piquant little drama that would have
delighted Boccaccio came to its denouement in
North Richmond (Melbourne), the other day.
Here is a brief synopsis of the plot. Act I.
Scene 1. A neat little villa in which dwells a lady
with a merry eye like hapless Nelly Cook. She is
the wife of a mariner who sails upon the seas and
leaves her for lengthened periods, sending her pre-
sents of strange birds and animals from foreign
climes while he is away. She takes in boarders.
Scene 2. Various ladies of the neighbourhood
discovered talking about her character and shaking
their heads in the grocery-store at the corner of
the street. Scene 3. Backyard of the villa by
moonlight. The lady and one of the lodgers dis-
covered digging a hole —horror ! can it be a grave?
• —in which they bury a suspicious-looking bundle.
Frightful thought—it contains a baby. Act 11.
Scene 1. Return of husband, and exodus of lady
and her lodgers from villa to go to another house.
Scene 2. Ladies of neighbourhood assembled in a
room of the empty villa discussing the situation.
They procure spades. Scene 3. Backyard of
villa as before. Same ladies digging all over it.
They unearth the mysterious bundle. It is
tremblingly opened—blue lights and shuddering
accompaniment on stringed instruments—and
found to contain the mouldering remains of a pet
monkey. Tableau and curtain.
* # #
A lady living in Hawthorn (Vic.) com-
plained to the police the other day that a sus-
picious-looking character was in the habit of
prowling around her house. A constable was sent
to arrest him. A Masonic wink passed between
chem when they met. The suspicious-looking
character was a plain-clothes policeman. This
was the first intimation the lady received that her
house was under surveillance. The place she lives
in seems to have been a hotel some years ago, and
the plain-clothes man had received orders to watch
it, particularly on Sundays. If she had not com-
plained he would probably have died on his post-
like the Roman sentinel who has come down the
alecl o m c* 4 »«2
4 ” ’ ]T) e l l>o Ul* |?C
?, 0[ (
vW *•":
c.
: Ij^
mo O
v UL^kcr^
(df €CI O I
' reserve)
•« ri •*
JL. ocore
t^fflfUna
e^r
CX WooWl^nty
-A ID o ° r <
centuries with a fraudulent reputation for faith-
fulness because his feet happened to get stuck in
the melted asphalt of Pompeii—under the impres-
sion that he was still keeping lynx-eyed guard on
a public-house.
* # #
We sat opposite a young Presbyterian
parson the other evening in a Sydney tram.
Where Bathurst-street’s column midst rosebeds and
pinks lifts its high forehead to the skies and stinks,
he bought an evening paper, and gave the vendor,
an old man, sixpence. Counting out the coppers
with great deliberation, the paper-pedlar was
enabled, through the moving of the tram, to do
the parson out of a “ brown.” Leaning hallway
out of the tram, and shaking his copper-holding
fist at the peculator, the good young clergyman
said, half to himself: “ Dom thot auld deevil, he’s
hod me for a penny !”
# # #
A man swore in Sydney bankruptcy court,
the other day, that he didn’t know the Christian
name of his mother-in-law. As there are very few
men willing to admit that their mothers-in-law
are Christians, and as this particular lady hap-
pened to be a Jewess the poor man was excused.
* # #
The Sydney Mornind Herald prides
itself on having been the means of informing the
London public of the appointment of Admiral
Fairfax as a Lord of the Admiralty. The Herald
only goes out of its way to show that the dullest
thing in Australia is smarter than the smartest
thing in England.
The now historical Jubilee address of
Queen Victoria, in which Her Gracious was re-
ferred to by “the ladies of N.S. Wales” as
“ Pre-eminent in Grief,” was, it now appears, not
original, but “cabbaged” without acknowledg-
ment fi-om “Gladstone’s Gleanings’’—the phrase
“ Pre-eminent in Grief ” having been used by the
G.O.M. in addressing Queen Victoria on the occa-
sion of her husband’s death. Such is N.S.W.
loyalty—sending the Sovereign literary goods
stolen from one of her own advisers. Under all
the circumstances that Jubilee address must now
be held to possess an interest remarkably like that
attaching to the address forwarded to the Queen
by certain other loyal N.S.W. people who boldly
stole from the preface to George Barrington’s
“History of New South Wales” a large hunk of
the grovelling, not to say slobbering, dedication
flung to His Gracious Majesty King George across
the seas by that literary pickpocket.
* * #
The residents of Hawthorn, a fashionable
Melbourne suburb, decline to subscribe to a tele-
phone exchange. They consider they can do all
the lying they need with the naked mouth.
* « #
There is to be some fun in the N.S.W.
Supreme Court shortly. A very nice old Sydney
gentleman who not long ago tearfully said" good
bye on a steamer’s deck to his home-going wife
and family, has been endeavouring to dam back
his emotion by opening a snug little rose-pink,
pearl-powder, patchouli, hot-coppers, pick me ups,
pale - blue - dressing - gown, devilled - kidneys - for-
breakfast establishment on the breezy of a
convenient suburb. The local evening papers are
going to have a beautiful time and pay back what
they owe to the holy city of Adelaide.
* # #
W. H. L. Bailey’s English tour hasn’t
democratically stiffened his upper lip. “ There
are many Sunday papers in London, and surely if
it’s good for the Queen and the Prince of Wales to
read Sunday papers, it must also be good for the
people of Victoria ! ” Q. E.D. If these be Bailey’s
sentiments, let us hope he’ll never be permitted
to start a Sunday paper anywhere on this conti-
nent.
* * #
Sucking barristers are as plentiful as
kanakas in the streets of Brisbane. The question
up North is—What is to be done with them when
they become entitled to wear wigs ? Lay poison,
or shoot them, or what ?
* # #
She : “ Isn’t this rather sudden, Mr. Pon-
sonby ? Wouldn’t it be better to postpone your
proposal until we are better acquainted?” Pon-
sonby : “ I don’t know about that. All the other
girls said they might have accepted me if they
hadn’t known me so well.”—Ex.
There was something novel at the Mel-
bourne Y.M.C.A. Hall the other night. The
Devil got right among them. This way : There
are a number of stage-struck young gentlemen and
ladies connected with the Mutual Improvement
Societies, and they managed to get the Y.M.C A
Hall for a display. The Y.M.C.A. was aghast!
Here were the strutting and budding Janet
Achurches and Charlie Warners and Billy Eltons
and—most dreadful of all ! —George Rignold’s
strutting on the sacred stage, and spouting
Shakespeare and all those profane writers.
Ormond’s so-called Working Men’s College is
turned into one of the nests of the stage-
struck. Its elocution society is x-earing up a solid
contingent for Poverty Point, both ladies and
gentlemen. Don’t we all know young Mont-
morency, who is resolved to be Othello, Hamlet,
and King Dick, but who in his old age finds him-
self Utility, at £1 a week? He studies up Clar-
ence’s “Dream,” and all that, but on the stage he
is a miserable member of the cast of “New
Babylon,” “Flying Scud,” or some other Bland
Holtism, and does not even reach the dignity of
the Sheriff in “ Jack Sheppard.” But then W., G.
and M. import all their actors and actresses from
England.
# # *
A small suburban journalist, mostly re-
markable for his large ears, was travelling from
Melbourne to Richmond by train a few evenings
ago. He met a friend and they began an argument
about some sporting matter. “ I’ll bet you a fiver
on it,” said the small journalist in a determined
manner. “Stake your money,” replied his eom-
panion, with a cold, cynical smile, which was
reflected on the faces of the other passengers in
the carriage. Without a word, but with a look of
calm dignity which abashed the jeering crowd,
the small journalist produced five glittering
sovereigns and held them out in the palm of his
hand. There was silence for a moment, and then
a quiet voice, coming from a man in the far corner
of the carriage, was heard to remark—“ As you’ve
got the money, p’r’aps you’ll pay me that pound
you’ve owed me for twelve months.” With a
ghastly contortion of the mouth, meant for a
genial smile, the small journalist paid the money,
and, then folding his ears across his face, was
heard from no more during the rest of the journey.
Moral (ch efly for pressmen): When a special
miracle occurs on your behalf and you have money
don’t make an international exhibition of it.
* # #
The gentleman had made his for une on
the Goulburn (Vic.) in the early days by selling
intestinal corrosives of various kinds, fancifully
named rum, brandy, and whisky, at a shilling a
nobbier. As soon as hb had grown rich enough,
and found that respectability and aerated waters
were becoming fashionable, he became aware, in a
flash of revelation, of the evils of strong dr nk. A
short time ago a friend, who had known him in
the wicked old times, called upon him. He (the
friend) had ridden far and fast. “I suppose you
are thirsty after your ride, Mr. ?” said the
converted lamber-down, by way of greeting. “I
never keep anything strong in the house, but if
you would like a seidlitz powder I. can yive vou
one. ” Language used by friend is not here printed,
this paper not being issued exclusively for the
perusal of bullock-drivers.
* * *
Scene : a Warrnambool hotel. Entm an
aristocratic apparition wearing gloves and asking
for rum-and-milk. Landlord replies that there is
no milk on hand, but plenty of rum. Apparition
enquires—“ What’s that cow doing against the
gate down the street?” Landlord (with cheerful
indifference): “ I don’t know ; waiting for some-
one to milk her, I suppose.” Apparition calmly
draws off gloves and remarking, “It’s always been
my motto to be obliging, ” borrows a jug and milks
the cow. That apparition ought to make a name
in politics.
* # *
The fate of monarchs is not an enviable
one when calmly considered. Most of the cele-
brated kings of history have been either beheaded
in public, or poisoned in private. Happy is the
king who is allowed to die in his bed. Such was
the end of a monarch who passed away from our
midst, so to speak, only the other day. We refer
to Dick, the king of the Warrarnunga tribe of
aborigines, who died in the Adelaide Hospital
lately. He was six feet and a-half in height, and
only 19 years of age. He might have revelled in
a reek of rum and tobacco-smoke for many years
to come, but he saw the rapid decay of reverence
for royalty that lives on alms, and with a broken
heart laid his regal form on a hospital bed with his
haughty feet protruding over the bottom end, and
gave up his tired ghost. We could have better-
spared a better king. A few lines bv way of
elegy :
Lady 0. has had a daughter,
Fourth —three t’other side of water—
This is rough upon the Baron,
Thing to ponder mild cigar on—
Who was looking for a sonny
To inherit name and money.
The fate of kings is full of ill:
They rule the game a-pace
And think themselves immortal, till
Death takes them with the ace.
E’en now at this late date a tear
From off our cheek we wipe
To think how Saul upon his spear
Was spitted—like a snipe.
And how great Caesar left this life,
And took a well-earned rest
With Brutus’ old tobacco-knife
Imbedded in his vest.
And he who wore the Russian crown,
That sovereign proud and strange,
Was basely blown up, and came down
A sovereign—in small change.
Dick’s end could not with their’s have vied
In tragic interest—
The Warramugan monarch died
Of tumour on the chest.
But rarer for his elegy ;
He was—though poor his fate—
The only king we’ve known could sec
That kings were out of date.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT Si DISCOUNT BANK,
90 —KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 9J per cent.
12 Months ... ... 8j per cent.
6 Months 7per cent.
3 Months 5| per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Write for plans £10 Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
WHY YOU SHOTOB USB
Seotfs Emulsion
of Ood. Liver Oil WITH
HYP ©PHOSPHITES..
It is used and endorsed by Physi-
cians because it is the best .
It is Palatable as Milk.
It is three times as efficacious as plain
Ood Liver Oil.
It is far superior to all other so-called
Emulsions.
It is a perfect Emulsion, does not sepa-
rate or change.
It is wonderful as a flesh producer.
It is the best remedy for Consumption,
Scrofula, Bronchitis, Wasting Dis-
eases, Chronic Coughs and Colds.
Sold by all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
Robertson’s W hisky *
'sacziucc oosj
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
10 of 45 eacli, 25 42, and 70 41,
Pamphlets from the Agents, AXjXjT x.imit©di, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
The muse Terpsichore generally leaves
Hamilton (Vic.) with a black eye. A free fight
concluded the Union Bank-quet and ball held
there lately. The first families have been, speak-
ing by and large, mostly in bed since.
* * *
A Victorian naturalist says that one takes
five times as much interest in a specimen of
organic life when one knows to what species it
belongs- No doubt—especially if it happens to
be a snake ami has bitten one.
# * *
Life is not a wild whirl of excitement upon
the Upper Murray. The local editors have had
but one incident to brighten up their columns
lately, and they have made it last through several
issues of their papers. We refer to the “myste-
rious disappearance of a cow.”
* # *
The Society for the Propagation of Christian
Knowledge should turn the white of its eye upon
Hamilton (Vic.) An inquest was held in a hotel
there the other day. “Swear the witnesses,”
said the coroner to the constable in attendance.
Here an embarassing pause occurred. There was
no Bible to swear them upon. Not wishing to
mve trouble they cheerfully remarked that they
could swear just as well without one, but the
coroner would not hear of this, and sent the
constable out to borrow a Bible. He returned in
the course of an hour or two bringing with him
the only Bible he could find in Hamilton, which
he had borrowed from a bookseller who had
received it some years previously as a sample.
There is no moral to this story.
* • # *
The Sydney police are shaking their heads
dubiously over a certain alleged robbery.
# * *
The society of a thriving Victorian town—
let us call it Shepparton for convenience —was in a
state of hungry fury lately because the hearing of
the Kaarimba infanticide case —the most disgust-
ingly unnatural set of horrors that ever occurred
in Australia —was transferred from the Court at
Shepparton to the Court at Sandhurst. Sheppar-
ton considers itself wronged and Sandhurst unduly
favoured. The change of venue is, of course,
ascribed to political influence. Five o’clock teas
have been dull in Shepparton ever since. The
deadliest injury that can be done to a country
town is to take from it the only thing it has to
talk about. And yet, we presume, Emile Zola
would be but faintly surprised to learn that his
scraps are held in horror by the same society of
Shepparton.
# * *
Moira Independent
says that there is a
“hostile feeling” in Tun-
gamah towards the local
brass band. The con-
ductor introduced some
new airs with variations
a, short time ago. The
people of Tungamah like
their music old and plain
—like some of their girls.
# * *
‘ ‘ What’s the matter,
Pat?” “More fun in
the family, sor.” “Yes !
twins again?” “No, sor.
Faith, an’ its triplets this
time.” “ You’re getting
on?” “ Getting on, is it?
By hivins, sor, I belave
the next’ll be quadru-
peds. ” —Primula.
* # #
A Bill for the en-
couragement of wattle-
growing has been brought before the Victorian
Parliament—evidently in the interests of the
horse-poets, who only rave of wattle because it
rhymes with “bottle.”
* * *
From a Victorian country paper :—“ The
cause celebre at the police-court, yesterday, was the
assault case arising from the late dog-fight.” Ar-
oady, it seems, may be reached by train, or at
least by coach, after all.
# * *
A Melbourne clergyman who was on his
way to marry a couple was thrown out of a buggy
and had his leg broken one day last week. It Is
significant that the bridegroom was driving.
* * *
Mr. Simon : “ She is a plucky woman —
my wife!” Mr. Spooner; “Yes?” Mr. Simon;
“ Why, there was a burglar in our house last night,
but she tackled him; I saw him jump out of the
window just as I got home !” —Ex.
# * #
The decision of the N.S.W. Full Court in
the matter of Miss Winifred Butler is not to be
appealed from, after all. It would be rough on
the little lady if her small fortune were dissipated
in feeing be-wigged persons who take only a
stipendiary interest in whether or not she goes to
Heaven —a place where all pretty girls of whatever
religion eventually find themselves.
* # #
The Fitzroy branch of the Australian
Natives’ Association a few nights ago discussed
the proposal to erect a statue to Adam
Gordon. Secretary Smith rose up and said, “I
don’t think Gordon would look well on a statue.
He was uncouth, rugged and grotesque in appear-
ance. He had a- red beard.” Smith evidently
thinks they’re going to work out Gordon’s beard
in brick.
* * *
Says a New Zealand paper :
At a juvenile party lately, during the dancing, a tall
boy about 14 was standing partnerless against the wall, so
a gentleman went and enquired if he could introduce him
to someone. The answer being in the affirmative, the
gentleman proposed a slim, handsome girl about 16,
thinking he Was conferring a good deal of honour on the
young gentleman. But he had reckoned without his host
(or rather his guest), for the hoy, who evidently knew his
own mind, promptly declined, saying in a most confi-
dential whisper: “ No, thank you, sir. I like them fat!”
* * *
In bankrupt Auckland, N.Z., the circum-
stance that a man has just “ filed his shovel ” does
not lead to the incurrence of any social disabilities,
the fact being that there is scarcely a man of mark
in the place who hasn’t “ met his creditors ” dur-
ing the past couple of years. Be this as it may,
the “ respectable citizen ” who has merely “ com-
pounded ” feels in his heart of hearts a sense of
superiority over the other respectable citizen
who has had his ledger mauled about by the official
assignee, and when Auckland sassiety begins to
pay “ twenty deener in the quid ” and to get its
meat and its groceries on monthly tick again, the
belles of Remuera and Ponsonby will remind one
another that “ they have nothing to be ashamed
of. as pa only compounded you know.”
* # *
The question now exciting the attention
of legal circles in Titipu is the relation of stipen-
diary justice to whisky. Cynical people aver that
the magistrate who forever sees a black dog in the
air and a fly on the end of his own carmine proboscis
may be a very good man to deal with the common
“drunks” who come up quivering before the
majesty of his awful frown, but that the official
who can’t put his boots on in the morning until he
has had four drinks, and who dare not mount his
perch in the halls of justice until he has had
another skinful of double whiskies at the club, is
hardly the person who should be allowed to
monkey with the law.
* * *
111 England, some time ago, a lady con-
trived to make her husband and some of her friends
believe that she was a successful novelist, and that
in order to see her publishers and correct her
proofs it was essential for her to periodically visit
London. The visits took place, but she was not a
novelist; and the real object of her journeys to
I(iindrsess
rewarded
■OM Parti ■ . Why do you -teat tt/at poor brule Like tyef% '' Sfew "
* [Buttfal *°not way, ttyX v/ty Kindness, l'd SAnwyov
tfje Reward
t
ò
Bookseller Cole, of the leviathan Mel-
bourne Book Arcade, is a genius. He begun in a
small way at Eastern Market, then advanced to
his little Arcade in Bourke-street east, next to his
big Central Arcade, from which he has swarmed
right from Bourke-street into Little Collins-street.
He put a column advertisement in the newspapers
for a wife, and people said it was one of his clever
gags, but Miss Jordan didn’t think so, wherefor
she answered the ad., married Cole, and is now
the happy mother of a large family. Cole is a
little ruffled over friend Zola.
The North Queensland editor who declines
to print this sort of letter about the opposition
beggar might just as well shut up shop instanter :
TO THE EDITOR CROYDON .
Sir,—In the last issue of the occurs a para-
graph stating that there is an opening for a saddler and
harness-maker on Croydon. I wish to inform saddlers
and harnessmakers at a distance that the only opening on
Croydon at present is for a couple of good smart bailiffs,
men who are thoroughly competent to knock absconding
debtors on the head and sell their carcases to Chow
cook-shops. There are quite a number of openings
in Croydon — some of them are yawning chasms
over 200 feet deep, and some of them are only
six feet deep ; in the latter openings rest the last
two Croydon saddlers, who committed suicide through too
much opening—open books. The free and generous
advice in the is because I refused to be loplolly
boy for them and sent their rotten old belts elsewhere to
be mended. I regard the as a misleading, lying,
unprincipled paper, and the fact of them advising saddlers
at a distance to come here and add to the already long list
of ruined tradesmen, proves it to be so. The public are
well aware that the last saddlers starved here, and I, who
have survived them, am a hopeless wreck. and his
paper are both liars, and when their lies are printed and
published with the intention to ruin tradesmen they
assume the aspect of downright villainy. Hoping you
will publish this in the interests of the trade.—Yours,
Starving Saddler.
The Melbourne Cup.
The Melbourne Racing Carnival—a period
of “drunken prophecies, libels, and dreams”
(Shakespeare)—-is close upon us, and the balmy air
is flushed at dewfall with subtle odours of ’oss.
After Caulfield Guineas Day, which falls this year
on October 12, the great bulk of Australian man-
kind—the steady-going majority who give racing
best for eleven months —are haunted by strange
“fancies ” and tortured by conflicting “ tips. ’ A
small per-centage of that majority break out in
yearnings for “a good double,” while the balance,
their appetites moderated by past sufferings, want
no more than one little immoral certainty for this
world’s richest handicap the Melbourne Cup. In
due season The Bulletin may, as it did last year,
clutch creation by the button-hole, and shout
something very particular and straight into its
listening ears ; meanwhile we would suggest that
a winner at 4 to 1 is better than any loser at splen-
did odds. However, for the benefit of such as
will put their ‘ ‘ bit ” on something that may be a
bit “off” ere the day arrives, we sound a few
notes of warning.
* * »
Judged by the clock, Melbourne Cup form
has improved so much during the last six years
that the chances of a moderate horse scrambling
home, by accident, are not worth considering. The
race is now run at a pace which leaves no oppor-
tunities for “slipping the field,” or “stealing a
march,” or for winning anyway save by an exhibi-
tion of exceptional equine merits on the day. At
least three of the last Melbourne Cup winners—
Martini-Henry, Dunlop, and Mentor —were good
enough to beat their respective fields nineteen
times out of twenty. Probably Malua and Coin-
motion might have fought out the battle of 1884
for a whole month of Cup Days, beating one
another by turns, and always making a holy show
of the comparatively bad horses opposed to them.
Nevertheless, the fact that the two top weights
(9st. 9lbs. and 9st. 121b5.) finished in front of
everything for the Cup of 1884 is no great induce-
ment to back Carbine, at 10st., to win this coming
race. Mr. Wallace’s colt might he 51bs. better than
Malua was five years ago, and yet have little chance
to finish absolutely first. Taking 20 to 1 about
Carbine now is folly, inasmuch as he can never be
a warm favourite even if he starts. With a break-
down and other possibilities to be considered, it is
even money that Carbine will not start for the
Cup. Mentor’s dicky hind leg has found him out,
Australian Peer and Abercorn may be scratched
ere this appears, and old age is creeping oyer
Cardigan. Manton’s recent defeats are nothing
in his favour, and the best New Zealand records
of that much-talked-about horse don’t make him
out to have a brilliant chance with 9st lib. As
much may be said of Maxim and Cuirassier,
neither of which are likely to run, or would start
at a short price if they did. Nor can one regard
Melos as a very likely horse to romp in
under Bst. 121 b., rememembering that during
19 years no winner (except the favourably-
circumstanced Malua) has carried more than
Bst. 31b. Tradition (Bst. 81b.) is probably the
most popular “fancy ” at time of writing, and of
everything in the race his prospects are the most
difficult to guage. In Tradition’s favour it is
argued that he ran good races last year when un-
doubtedly big and ‘ ‘ above himself. ” Per contra,
it is pointed out that he cut a very moderate figure
in the Newmarket Handicap when “fit” and
backed for money. Some horses are fittest when
fat, and if Tradition showed anything near his
best form on last Melbourne Cup day, then he
will have but a moderate show this journey, meet-
ing Bravo and The Yeoman on a stone or more
worse terms. If the ground gets hard the big
un’s trainer may not bring him to the scratch
after all. Sedition isn’t made on the lines of areal
stayer although she might be able to cut them all
down in the Caulfield Cup. In this connection,
too, we may hint at the possibility of Silverton —
now a nominal first favourite for the Melbourne
Cup—being a “goer” for the Caulfield event.
Humours of Silverton’s excellence have been flying
about the Ballarat district since many months,
but said rumours represented this “ dark ” mystery
as remarkable for speed rather than stamina. Out-
side the “stable division” nobody knows any-
thing about Silverton, except that it is long since
the gelding ran, and that his last attempts were
not very serious. We wouldn’t back him for the
Melbourne while he remains in the Caulfield Cup.
* # *
Antaeus, another one backed at 20 and 25
to 1, will require to be a better three-year-old than
the “book” makes him out, to win a Melbourne
Cup with 7st. 31bs., and we much prefer Singapore
at three pounds more. But even supposing that
Singapore is good enough to win the Y.11.C.
Derby, we still can’t forget that Australian Peer,
after beating a crack like Abercorn, could only
finish third to Dunlop and Silvermine for the two-
inile handicap. Grand Flaneur and Chester
carried fist. 121 b. when they won the Cup, and
although Martini got home easily with 7st. 51b.,
we regard the failure of the Peer as a more reliable
precedent for backers to make a note of. Benzon
is handsome and well-bred enough to be a
real good thing for this race, but at present
the Caulfield Cup stops the way. Whaka-
wai, last year’s disappointment, cannot stay in
our opinion. Oakleigh had less weight two years
ago, and left his friends in a hole. Chicago,
another Caulfield Cup winner, failed over the
more trying course just as Oakleigh had done.
Of at least 60 other horses it may be said that
they couldn’t win a Melbourne Cup with Ist. on
their backs, simply because they cannot gallop
the distance at the necessary sustained pace.
They have to be handicapped on their “ form,
such as it is, but for all practical purposes they
might all be on the fist. 71b. limit mark together.
Our present idea is that no “dark” horse is
worth backing for this Melbourne Cup, that the
extreme top weights have rather too much to
carry, and that one of the lot handicapped between
7st. and 9st. will require thinking about in a fort-
night’s time.
Adv. from Parisian newspaper : —“A lady
having a pet dog whose hair is of rich mahogany
colour, desires to engage a footman with whiskers
to match.”
We have received from Mr. P. T. Whealy,
Menindie, River Darling, 10s. in aid of the London
Dock Labourers’ Fund, and 10s. to the Irish
National League for Evicted Tenants’ Fund.
When “Mister James” sees a huge ad-
vertising block—that of the AVaterbury watch in
the Sydney Morning Herald—the first time that
this respectable and right-thinking paper has so
far forgotten itself—how he will smile !
Fritz Raatz, of Sandhurst, having ex-
hausted the joys of earth and lost his taste for
liquor, made two attempts to ring down the cur-
tain on his poor life-drama. He tried a razor first
and water afterwards, but both in vain. He did
not take “Rough on Raatz.”
“ It is reported at Athens that the Chris-
tians in Crete are being ruthlessly flogged and
tortured, and women are outraged. Arrests have
been made in all directions, and the prisons are
full.” Exactly similar reports have been circu-
lated in London concerning Sydney.
From the Western Agriculturist (Vic.)
“ Mr. James Boastley writes to state that he is
not the person who recently appeared in the
Hamilton police court to answer a charge of steal-
ing beer from a hotel.” To what desperate strata-
gems do some people resort to get their names in
print!
Editor Bulletin.— Dear sir,—l have been
desired by the Honorary Treasurer to acknowledge,
with many thanks, the receipt of your cheque for
seventeen pounds (£l7) being a contribution to the
Sydney Hospital of one per cent, on the amount
realised on the Spring Handicap by “ Adam
Bede.” I remain, dear sir, yours very obediently,
H. W. Russell, Secretary, Sept. 27th, 1889.
Coroner Youl had
the Melbourne morgue
built (I la the Paris dead-
house. To make the
affair completely French,
the motto “ Honi soil qui
malypcnse ” was inscribed
on the ornamental tiles in
the porch.
Mam m a ; “ Milly,
did Mr. Brown attempt
to kiss you last evening
while you were in the
parlour?” Milly: “What,
ever makes you ask such
a question, mother?”
Mamma: “Well, I heard
you say to him that you
believed he hadn’t shaved
for a week.” Milly:
“Yes, he was showing
me how to play the zither
with his chin.” —Ex.
George Lilly Mitchell was found living in
a hollow log near Kingston (Vic.), the other day,
and was sen t o f{ to the Ararat Lunatic Asylum,
The. local paper will have to come out in future
without its Paris letter, we suppose.
T Bulletin is largely quoted by the
Brltigh p resS- In a l ate number of the Society
Times we are scissored to the extent of four and a
half columns without acknowledgment. We begin
. that a British Bulletin would make a
that M0,..™ Sooty built
«. reputation almost exclusively on unaoknow
Ddged Bulletin matter. . . .
The Prince of Wales at Pans Exhibition :
The Prince of Wales looked like a rich German banker
of Jewish blood in the midst of his congenial family. The
Semitic expression is pretty distinct. The eyes of the
p ince „ are th , o f of a ,. man ponied to reflect upon
lartre financial transactions. His curiosity is not mai Kea,
if g e looked at one it was at some lady. I should
think he would weigh 200 pounds. He was dressed in a
dark-grey suit and spring overcoat, with SuMe half-
tanned gloves of grey, and carried the remains of a cigar,
which he lighted as soon as he sat down.


Amusements.
IJ« HEA T R E ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
The Famous ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
IN
e ONLf ta THE MIKADO Fe ONLY tS
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Maokay’s Hotel.
R. SNAZELLE.
MEW OPERA HOUSE.
Doors open 7.30. ; Commences at 8 o’clock sharp.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
of the
WORLD'S CHALLENGE PRESTIDIGITATEUR
I’rof. Rolbert Jensen.
To-Night, and Every Evening,
Jensen’s Congress of Cabalistic Wonders.
Prices, 3si, 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Acting Manager .... .... JOE DAVIS
R- S N A Z E L L E.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.45. Carriages at 10.45.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
SHAKESPEARE’S GREAT TRAGEDY,
JULIUS CJB SAR!
RIGNOLD as “MARC ANTONY.”
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
M R '
SNAZELLE.
Miscellaneous,
•Jl OWN HALL, YOUNG
(Late Mechanics’ Institute).
The extensive Additions and Improvements
thereto being completed, the Hall (which is capable
of seating about 700 persons) is now available for
the use of Dramatic Companies.
The Stage is large, and fitted with many Changes
of Scenery with all necessary appliances, the whole
brilliantly illuminated with 100 16-c.p. Electric
Lights, which can be instantaneously switched on
or off at will.
Terms on application to
W. M. BARKER,,
Town Clerk.
R. SNAZELLE.
To Butchers, Country Hide Buyers, and
Others.
AT a Meeting of Tanners, held on Friday, 13th
mst., .it was decided that on and after
FRIDAY, the 4th OCTOBER, the Tanners will
BUY NO HIDES with OFFAL attached, such
offal to constitute face pieces and shanks.
T. T. FORSYTH,
Chairman.
jyj" R. S N A Z E L L E.
Ic eT Ic E . Ic E .
The COLONIAL ICE COMPANY
(limited),
Jl Kegeut Street A Kensington street,
SYDNTEY.
We beg to inform our numerous customers that
we are now supplying ICE in town and suburbs
at the lowest price ever charged in Sydney.
Our Ice is clearer, purer, and more lasting than
any Ice hitherto supplied to the public.
All orders to be sent to the Works, 71 Regent
Street.
F. D. KYLE, Manager.
FOR SALE.— Second - hand Quad-Demy
Folder, by Hakrtld ; Cheap. Apply The
effioo.
Amusements.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Bouoicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.40.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
Barbara, Barbara,
A play in One Act by Jerome K. Jerome.
To be followed by
TH E ROC K E T,
an original comedy in Three Acts by
ARTHUR W. PINERO.
life play produced under the personal super-
vision of Mr. Robert Brough,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5, SOPHIA
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.20 p.m.
J oe Davis, Business Manager,
]gONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS OP AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate-Fare, 4d.
gT. GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
—THE MELBOURNE LAUGHING SEASON—
Now at its full height.
EVERY EVENING at EIGHT O’CLOCK
The Greatest Living Mesmerist,
Mr. T. A. KENNEDY,
appears in his
Mystifying and Marvellous Entertainment!
Approaching the Borderland of the Supernatural,
and providing, in addition,
**' ’ NO END OF LAUGHTER!
Popular Prices. Popular Prices.
M
R.
SNAZELLE.
JJLITE skating rink.
The Manager is pleased to announce to his many Patrons
and the Sydney Public that he has RESUMED BUSINESS
at the CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING ACADEMY. York-
street, during the Repairing of his ELITE RINK.
SESSIONS
Morning Session Ladies and Children, Admission Free •
Skate Checks, 6d.
Afternoon Ladies and Children, Admission 6d; Skates
tree. Gentlemen, Admission 6d ; Skates, 6d.
Evening Admission, Skaters, Is.; Skates, Free. Spec-
tators, 6d.
Monday and Thursday Evenings:—Admission, Ladies, Is.;
Skates, Free. Gentlemen, 25.; Skates, Free. Spec-
tators, Is.
Saturday Afternoon ;—Prices as usual.
The Rink will be OPEN for Special Afternoon Session
from 1 till 2 p.m. Admission 6d.; Skates, Free.
The NAVAL ARTILLERY BAND in attendance every
Evening and Saturday Afternoon.
Objectionable persons will not be admitted.
K. A. SKINNER, Proprietor and Manager.
R. SNAZELLE.
Grand National Demonstration*
Agricultural Society’s Grounds,
Moore Park.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5, at 2 p.m,
AMATEUR athletic sports
(Under the management of the New South
Wales Amateur Athletic Association).
CRICKET MATCH,
(Under the management of the New South
Wales Cricket Union.)
THREE-MILE BICYCLE RACE,
—Roadsters—
(Under the management of the New South
Wales Cyclists’ Union.)
trophies,
PRESENTED BY THE NATIONAL CLUB,
on view at
Messrs. PRICE and CO.’s 114 and 116 King-st.
Speeches will also be delivered
—BY
PROMINENT MEMBERS
OF THE
KTATIOKTA.!. PARTY*
ADMISSION FREE (By Ticket).
Tickets can be obtained from the hum fees,
and committees of the above associations and
muons, Messrs. Price and Co., Mr. Talbot, 145
bat bur«t s tr eot, the hon. secretaries of any
NATIONAL PROTECTION ASSOCIATTON
members of the NATIONAL CLUB, and at the
entrance gates on Saturday afternoon.
By order of the National Protection Conference
Committee.
H. TENEENT DONALDSON,
National Club, Sydney,
September 27. 1889.
Registrar.
Shipping.
SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Tons.
Commander.
Leave
Sydney,
1 p.m.
Leave
Mel-
bourne.
Leave
Adelaide.
Rosetta
Massilia
Oceana
Home ..
Britannia
Carthage
.. 3525 G, W. Brady ..
.. [4918 C. Fraser ..
.. [6362 P. S. Tomlin ..
.. 15011 A. W. Adamson
.. 0257 G. N. Hector ..
.. 15011 0. E. Baker
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent,
/NOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
Prance, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
o
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
ò
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N-B.—Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-plaoe.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
jjjr ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable)
Steamer.
Salier
Hohenzollern
Kaiser Wil-
helm 11. ..
Commander.
Leave i Leave
Sydney I Mel-
noon. j bourne.
1889. 1889.
W. Reimkast’n Oct. 9,Oct. 14
H. Bddeker .. Nov. 6 Nov. 11
L. Stormer .. 'Nov. 30 Dec. 5
Leave
Adelaide
Sema-
phore.
1889.
Oct. 16
Nov. 13
Dec. 11.
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
ttnion steam ship company of new
V ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under:—
o
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Ounard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3601 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu'de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
B. P, HOUGHTON, Acting Manager.
R. SNAZELLE.
N
Furniture, &c
EWT 0 N
AND LAM B
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
ANJ)
BEDDING MANUFACTURE RS.
SHOW BOOMS AND MANUFACTORY i
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
1 sizes.
B
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAM B,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O'CONNELL STREETS.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.—The Economic
Declroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand,
' Vlt h f°. wel Ratt, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LANB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
to ß a “ d tlle back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
With Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Iwo Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
™ xewt °N & LAMB,
O Connell and Spring Streets.
o
Canvas folding
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Od.
Newton & Lamb,
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPER OR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS.
6 x8,8 x 8, 9xB, 10 x 8,12 xB, at low prices.
JAP ANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord, 6xB, 6s. 6d.: BxB,
95.; 9x 8,9 s, 6d.; 10 xB, 10s. 6d.; 12 xB, 12s. 6d.;
12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
XJ OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
o
£ MBEIOAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.,
. Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
o
Q ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah,
Pkioe Very Low,
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring O’Connell Streets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Oast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
ti ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs,
Indian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB.
~D YERANDAH T7OUNGES, from
ilj 155.; and 1 arge variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
EWT 0 N AN D LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
W AREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
AND
“So you had your clothes made by Worth !
Did you get a good fit?” “No; my husband
always has the fit when the bill comes in.” —Ex.
Two Small Girls : “ Oh, auntie ! we’ve
come to tell you there’s a baby at our house !”
Aunt: “That is nice. Did the doctor bring a
little brother or a little sister?” Little Girls
(puzzled); “ Nobody knows till the christening !”
Castillo s execution, in Melbourne, has
evoked reminiscences of the hangmen. Thirty
years ago the artist was Bamford, a cross-eyed o 1 d
demon, who got blamed because he had a trick of
laying the cat-o’-nine-tails on too light. To him
followed Michael Gately, a proper ruffian. He
was, all oyer, Marcus Clarke’s Gabbett in “His
Natural Life.” A monstrous man, about 6ft. high
and so broad that he looked almost short, this
Quasimodo fascinated a pretty young girl, for
whom he reared a mia-mia of red-gum boughs
and pittosporums in the Government Domain,
the public",were scandalised with the saturnalia,
in the morning you would find remains of feasting ;
and drinking on the romantic grassy slope over-
looking Melbourne city. Here by night such
vagrants as Gately held a Witches’ Sabbath
of the Gipsies, ladies and gentlemen. Before
their vision were spread the lights of Mel-
bourne. Behind them were the lights of
Government House, with, perhaps, a grand ball
going on, affording luscious music, and the win-
dows of the ball-room illuminated. Where’s your
novelist ? Jot it down, Christie Murray. How-
ever, the Governor did not relish the novelistic
combined with the stinks of the Yarra, Araby the
Blest, flowing between the vagrants and their
beloved Melbourne. At one time the windows of
Government House, towards the city, could not be
opened. After Gately had been transplanted to
Dante’s Inferno, or some suitable spot off this
planet, he was_ succeeded by Elijah TJpjohn, a very
tall, white-haired, benevolent-looking old man,
but the boys got chivvying him. So the hangman
of the present day is kept in retirement. Detec-
tives flaunt about publicly. People point them
out to each other. But the hangman goes to and
fro in complete incog. He does his work, draws
his £5, and is as quiet as a burglar.


■!
<??v
Colgate*
& &. s
,V #1 i..: .- / ' v I
Cr^i
/ v«ft
•TQI IiEJSOAP
-PU£B>7
>7
>l,
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND DEALERS
IN TOILET REQUISITES.
' 'Jt? T
Transparent
Best* Cheapest
2 Baritone!!
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDKTEY.
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
EH, PHOTS, SDCDUUS,
PONY CARTS, &c., &c.
Express & Lumber Waggons,
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
—% —
Agricultural Machinery.
i
■
Dawsons/^
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents fov Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of FORTY YEARS’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
176 William Street, Melbourne.
HUMOR OF A CRANK.
HOW A PREACHER TALKED IN RHYME
AND HOW TO CURE HIS WANDERING
FANCY.
In the west of the United States a clergyman
was seized with a rhyming mania. Every request
he made was in impromptu rhyme, and he began to
deliver his sermons in high-flown doggerel. His
name was supposed to be Snyder. Except fo r
this he was perfectly sane. His friends advised
him to lay his case before the celebrated Dr.
Hammond, of New York, which he did, journey-
ing hither. His first words were, on entering the
doctor’s office, as follows : —
“ Good morning, Dr. Hammond, I hope that you
are well;
I've come a long distance my story to tell.
They say I’m insane, but that is profanity ;
I’ve arhyming inspiration, but that’s not insanity. ”
Whether Dr. Hammond cured his patient or
not is not stated, but the case is susceptible of cast
treatment, as it is only a mild lunacy. It would
cure itself if the subject was fortunately or un-
fortunately stricken with pain of long continuance.
Pain would serve as a counter irritant, and it
knocks the poetry out of anything. Suddenly
attacked with the pangs of rheumatism, the
twitching aches of neuralgia, the acute tortures of
sciatica or lumbago or the dull misery of sprains,
hurts, or bruises, which, acting as a diversion to
such a perverted brain, the patient would talk no
more rhyme. As the folly wore off it would be
enough to cure the pain in any form, promptly
and permanently, in the manner followed by those
who know what is the best for it. Mr. W. Booth,
Thomas-street, Balmain, states : “ Had severe
rheumatism and no end of pain. After one or two
applications of St. Jacobs oil pain entirely left
me. Recommend it to my friends. My wife was
cured of neuralgia in the same way.” “A member
of my family,” says Mr. J. R. Drewett, Glen
View, Darlinghurst, “was cured by St. Jacobs oil
of the excruciating tortures of rheumatic gout.”
Mr. James O’Brien, stockbroker, Sandhurst,
(Victoria), says : “ With less than half a bottle of
St. Jacobs oil I was cured of acute rheumatism. ”
Mr. Arthur Pretty, 5, Collins-street, Melbourne,
states “ that a bottle of St. Jacobs oil cured him
of chronic rheumatism. He had no faith in it,
but was intensely surprised and gratified. ” Mr.
E. A. Little, 201, Pitt-street, Sydney, says he “is
glad to testify that his wife was cured of a painful
rheumatic affection by St. Jacobs oil.” Mr. R.
0. Payne, Brisbane, says : “ I have received
instantaneous relief from acute rheumatism of
long standing by the use of St. Jacobs oil.” Mr.
Alhster Brown, Auckland, N.Z., writes; “Half
a bottle of St. .1 acobs oil cured me of rheumatism
so severe I could not lift my arm.” In like
manner Mr. D. Pass (of Fieldheim, Gotthelf, and
Co.), Sydney; Mr. John D. Flower, Balmain ;
Wm. Lovering (S. Hoffnung and Co.), Sydney;
T. W. Allen (A. H. Nathan and Co., Auckland);
Mr. E, Benjamin (Hart and Benjamin, Solicitors),
Collins-street, Melbourne ; Thomas Robinson,
Carlton, Melbourne; Mrs. J. Love, 145, Johnson-
street, Collingwood, were all promptly cured of
rheumatism by the same means. Such things to
the well, mentally, were not diversions, but how
readily they were vanquished.
A NOVEL ASSAULT CASE.
“Ah Quie, you are charged with assaulting the
complainant—that man over there. What have
you got to say—are you guilty or not guilty ? ”
“No. Me no sal tee ; no catchee.”
“Well, you will ‘catchee,’ perhaps, directly.
Did you assault the man—did you strike him? ”
“ Oh ! all li —me strike im ? Yes, me stlike him
some more when go outsi. You see, my countly-
man he say. ‘ What for you allee same, late allee
ti; why not you buy Wattabilly Wash?’ Me
say, ‘ All li; me buy Wattabilly.’ Me go shop
allee same that man. He say, 4 You want
Wattabilly? All li, me sell him —one pong, fi’
shillin. ’ Me say, 4 Wattabilly ? ’ He say, 4 All li,
Wattabilly. ’ Me go home, my wash he no tick-
tick. My countryman he say, ‘No good wash;
no Wattabilly ; too muchee money, no good wash. ’
Me go shop, speakee that man, tell im no good
wash, no good outsi’, no good insi’, no good auysi’
at all. He say plenty good for dirty Chinaman.
Me hit him long o’eye, allee same Eulopean man.
He say plee’, plee’, and plesseeman catchee me ? ”
“ Is this the watch, sergeant ? ”
“Sure, and it is your wurtchip,”
(Magistrate to complainant) : “I’m only oorry
the defendant let you off so lightly. He should
employ a lawyer now and prosecute you. This is
one of those rubbishing Swiss watches —dear at
any price. It won’t go, and it couldn’t keep time
if it did. Yet you sell it as a Waterbury, and
charge more than the price of the most expensive
Waterbury, which is the very best timekeeper
made. Verdict for the defendant with all costs.”
(To defendant) : “Get a lawyer to compel that
man to give you a Waterbury watch in place of
this trash, and then prosecute him for obtaining
money under false pretences.”
(Defendant to Bench): “Hi yah! Allee same
Hoo-lay! ”
Dear Bulletin, —Let me tell you a little
moreabout old “Ready-Money ” Robinson than you
appear to know. He made his first rise as a store-
keeper at Ballarat, and when he went to N.Z. in
1856 he was a wealthy man. His landed estates
in N.Z. were_enormous, that of Cheviot, in Nel-
son, alone being valued for taxation purposes at
£300,000. His wool-clip several years reached
3500 bales. As you mentioned in your paragraph,
he was best known as a turfite in Australia. It is
not generally known, however, that he had a try
for honours on the English turf once. He was the
owner of Bltham, who ran third in Gladiateur’s
Derby in ’65, and he won the Royal Hunt Cup at
Ascot with Gratitude the same season. “Ready ”
landed £12,000 over that win, but his subsequent
losses took all the gilt off the gingerbread. He
imported the thoroughbred sire Golden Grape to
N.Z. early in the sixties, and also the mares
Coronaria and Sky bird. —Yours, &c., Timi
Piripi.
Dear Bulletin, —That so vast a wilder-
ness as the eastern districts of Western Aus-
tralia should be so absolutely destitute of
water has been a knotty problem to most West
Australians. The avhole thing lies in a nutshell,
and may be solved (by those who are willing to
accept the solution) thuswise : Some months ago,
on an exploring expedition with two other
white fellows and two native blacks as guides,
we were camped at one of the usual “boy-
yars ” (granite rocks) some 500 miles east of
Perth, and close on the borders of where Hampton
Plains are supposed to be. Next morning, about
daylight, we were visited by some fifteen or twenty
imps of darkness clothed in nature’s garments,
and, from the gesticulations they were performing-
in a most dramatic manner, it was evident they
had something to show us. On reaching them,
what was our surprise- to see imprinted on the
solid rock a human footprint, verily of the “Two’s”
dimensions, which the blackfellows one and all
most emphatically assured ns was the “sun’s”
track, where that celestial body had walked,
adding “ Baal more hot fellow Gabby all burn ’em
up.”—Yours, &0., “Tbus.” 12th Sept., ’B9.
From a Victorian country paper :
About 15 years ago three young men were strolling
through the Melbourne General Cemetery one Sunday
afternoon. One was an artisan’s assistant, whose greatest
achievement had been the invention of an improvement
in an weighing-scale, for which he had obtained a patent.
Another was a junior teacher, who was noted amongst
the members of a literary club to which he belonged for
the brilliance of his rhetoric and his debating power ; he
had also become distinguished in the metropolis as an
amateur-actor. The third was a clerk articled to a
solicitor and a valued contributor to Melbourne Punch.
As they passed a costly monument, placed over the grave
of a certain Victorian celebrity, one of the trio made some
favourable reference to the greatness of him whose re-
mains reposed beneath. Thereupon the artisan’s assistant,
with some naivete, dreamily remarked: “ I wonder which
of us three will become most famous.” His confreres,
whose prospects in life appeared brighter—their education
being better, intelligence greater, and vocations more
promising and aristocratic than his laughed im-
moderately at the apparent absurdity of his re-
mark. The young artisan, good-humouredly, joined
in the merriment, although it was directed against
himself. To-day, the articled clerk of 15 years ago
is a limb of the law, but, sooth to say, not very successful;
the assistant actor, who has in the meantime experienced
several social “ ups and downs,” is a manual labourer, re-
siding in the vicinity of Maldon, and the artisan’s appren-
tice is an officer in a torpedo corps of tire British Army,
and not only so, hut also the inventor of a new torpedo,
named after him, for which invention he received from the
British Government a year or two ago the large sum of
6110,000. It is almost superfluous to mention that his
Melbourne appellative is Louis Brennan.
This story is evidently true. The description of
the “valued contributor to Melbourne Punch”
wandering about the Cemetery (looking for in-
spiration, no doubt) bears the impress of reality.
In all probability it is he who tells the story. But
Louis Brennan must have had an uncommonly
poor opinion of himself 16 years ago.
Justice Stephen was interviewed at his
residence, Newshain House, by an enterprising
Yankee journalist. But so far as he was con-
cerned “the home of news house ” belied its name,
for on admission to the “ awful presence of the
judge ” the following colloquy is reported to have
taken place: “Well, sir, what do you want?”
Reporter; “Well, I guess I want to ask your
lordship a few questions with reference to this
Maybrick affair, which you alone can answer. ” The
judge made a mighty effort to smother his swelling
wrath. He succeeded in doing so at last, and
then, with a terrible meaning in his words, he
said, “There’s the door!” And at the same
moment he turned to the servant, and laconically
added, “ And see that he leaves by it.”
The Victorian Defence Department is
about to add a regiment of cyclists to the military
strength of that belligerent province, and young
men of good standing and the necessary chest
development, who dare to mount the fiery bicycle
and career madly off for the protection of their
hearths and homes, are invited to hurry up and
enlist. The bicycle cavalry-man is to be apparelled
in fetching knickerbockers and other gorg'eous
raiment calculated to fascinate Bridget and Mary
Ann, and make the mounted policeman buckle up
with envy. The efficacy of a bicycle corps in a
country where ti-tree scrub and chock-and-log
fences are continually obtruding, and where the
roads are mostly too stiff for bullock-drays, is
obvious.
That Mr. Maybrick died of gastro-enteritis
is pretty certain. That gastro-enteritis is due to
many causes, chiefly bad food, cold, or any irritant
poison, is certain. Now, it is hardly wonderful
that a sick man should die of gastro-enteritis, and
that arsenic should be found in his stomach con-
sidering he partook, by the doctor’s orders of—
Morphia suppositories, ipecacuanha wine, papain
and iridin solution, cascara sagrada, nitre-hydro-
chloric acid, bromide of potassium, anti pyrin,
tincture of jaborandi, bismuth, sulphonal, cocaine,
tincture of mix-vomica, Fowler’s solution, Plum-
mer’s pill, dilute hydrocyanic acid, tincture of
henbane, nitroglycerine, dilute phosphoric acid ;
solution of chlorine, sanitas, glycerine, and
Condy’s fluid, as mouth-washes.—-Ex.
The Church of England Assembly, in
Melbourne, bustled up when Bishop Goe, in his
opening address, touched upon the dock strike.
“ Now, my brethren.” Yes, now for broad
Christianity. But, alas ! The Church is tied up,
hand and foot, with Capital. Dr. Goe began with
a sort of gentle praise of the Australian contribu-
tions in a humanitarian light. He treated them
as a kind of amiable weakness. For his own part,
he must wait till he heard the capitalists’ side, the
Bruce Smith idea. Yes, Bruce Smith is member
for the Church of England. Goe gushed over
Ormond and Staweli, but when he came to the
Dock Labourer masses—oh ! how he drew in his
horns ! How cold was Christian charity ! He
thought of the poor Dock shareholders and the
loss of their dividends, This was the point
that struck Bishop Goe. We would like to
have taken him to the Melbourne Wharf on Sun-
day afternoon, the day before his speech. There
he would have seen The Bulletin cartoon, “The
Secret of England’s Greatness, Fivepence an
Hour,” pasted up on the wall of the shed, and
Fleming, the Socialist, lecturing upon it to a
crowd of, perhaps, a thousand working men.
Goe ! Consider thy ways. All the Bishop’s whine
was about poor Capital. Nothing but an exalta-
tion of the dismal science of political economy,
the very opposite pole to Christ! Bishop Goe’s
assumption was that if Capital is distributed it is
gone ! Going, gone. How absurd ! A million is
safe in the hands of the Duke of Westminster, but
goes if a thousand men hold it.
Discriminating Scissors.
The Leader of the Future.
Mr. Arthur Desmond, who, it will be remem-
bered, contributed not long ago to The Bulletin
the “ Song of Te Kooti” and other fine verses, has
just written for Reynolds’ Newspaper the follow-
ing stirring lines :
TUB LEADER OF THE FUTURE.
Oh, the Leader of the Future, shall he come tons as comes
The chief of conquering cohorts, ’mid the roll of battle
drums,
Will he come as came the victor in Olympian days of old,
Will he come in princely raiment with a coronet of gold,
A crown of gleaming gold,
A crown of gleaming gold,
Wili he come in regal raiment with a crown of gleaming
gold ?
No ; his hand will hold no sceptre and his brow shall not
he crowned,
And no robe of Tyrian purple shall enfold his loins
around ;
His throne shall he the hearts of men, his tongue shall
utter words
To stir the listening myriads like reverberating chords,
Like reverberating chords,
Like reverberating chords,
That will thrill the hearts of myriads like reverberating
chords.
A Hero-Vindicator, he will come, at first, as conies
The music of a clarion-call above the roar of drums.
Then let us list in hopefulness to hear the prelude song
That will tell despairing millions, “Lo ! thy Leader's
marching on,”
Thy Leader’s marching on,
Thy Leader’s matching on,
That will tell desponding millions, “ Ho ! thy Chief comes
marching on.”
No nimbus shall illume his brow nor flashing diadem,
Yet his name will shine with lustre brighter than the
brightest gem,
And the Emperor of the Universe upon this man will
smile,
Who’ll beard the Lofty and the Proud like Moses by the
Nile,
L ; ke Moses by the Nile,
Like Moses by the Nile,
He’ll beard the Haughty and the Proud like Moses by 1 lie
Nile.
He will view the hosts of tyrants with their battle-flags
unfurled.
And his heart will bleed in anguish o’er a subjugated
world;
Then—his voice shall he a bugle-blast, his hand w ill grasp
the pen,
Each word shall be an army corps, each line a million
men,
Each line a million men,
Each line a million men,
Each word shall he an army corps, each line a million
men.
Ay, h e’ll bare his brow to heaven and he'll speak the
thoughts of might
That will scatter their battalions as the morning scatters
night,
And the lords of brassy legions and the robbers of the
poor,
Shall furl their bloody banners to rule and rob no more,
To war and rule no more,
To war and rob no more,
They shall furl their bloody banners to war and rule no
more.
His nation shall he nations and Truth his sword will he
To cleave the mail of mighty ones and set their captives
free;
But he will come in lowly guise, with neither trump nor
drum;
So let us work and hope for him —our King that is to
come,
Our King that is to come,
Our King that is to come,
Then let ns prepare the way for him-—the King that is to
come.*
Arthur Desmond.
Hawke’s Bay, New Zealand, Queen’s Birthday, 1889.
* “ He shall judge the poor of the people, He shall save
the children of the needy and shall break in pieces the
oppressor.”—Psalms Ixxii., v. 4.
The Ring’s Motto.
A lover gave the wedding ring
Into a goldsmith’s hand.
“Grave me,” he said, “a tender thought
Within the golden band.”
The goldsmith graved,
With careful art,
“Till death us part.”
The wedding-bells rang gladly out,
The husband said, “ 0 wife,
Together we shall share the grief,
The happiness of life ;
I give to thee
- My hand, my heart,
Till death us part.”
’Twas she that lifted now his hand
(O love that this should be),
Then on it placed the golden band,
And whispered tenderly :
“ Till death us join,
Lo, thou art mine
And I am thine !
“ And when death Joins we never more
Shall know an aching heart,
The bridal of that better love,
Death has no power to part,
That troth will be
For thee and me
Eternity ! ”
So up the hill and down the hill,
Through fifty changing years.
They shared each other’s happiness—
They dried each other’s tears.
Alas ! alas !
That death’s cold dart
Such love can part!
But one sad day she stood alone
Beside his narrow bed;
She drew the ring from off her hand,
And to the goldsmith said :
“ Oh, man who graved,
With careful art,
‘ Till death us part,’
“ Now grave four other words for me—
‘Till death us join.’ ” He took
The precious golden band once more,
With solemn, wistful look,
And wrought with care,
For love —not coin—
“ Till death us join.”
—The Toronto Globe.


Medical.
Good Health
Is the greatest blessing vouchsafed to mankind. Without
health, wealth is useless, happiness improbable, content-
ment impossible. Many people who do not enjoy good
health, suffer simply on account of their disregard of
nature’s unwritten but potent laws. Any departure from
the natural course of life is sure and certain to result in
physical disturbance, and to induce symptoms of disease.
symptoms are warnings from the nervous system
that the vital processes are not being properly performed.
The blood forms all parts of the body ; it is the foundation
of all muscle, bone, tissue, and secretions, and is the
mainspring of the physical system, besides being the
source from which all functions and faculties arise ; there-
fore it is absolutely necessary that it should be rich in its
essential chemical elements to properly perform its office.
If the blood becomes weak and enervated by reduction of
its vital constituents, it cannot possibly repair the
loss throughout the system caused by destructive
METABOLISM, or the wear and tear of everyday life ;
consequently some organ becomes debilitated and disease
attacks it, or the system gets so low in vita'ity generally
that they contract some serious affection, disease, or com-
plaint which may last a lifetime, or perhaps quickly have
a fatal termination. In the enervating climates of
Australasia it is positively essential (and we cannot impress
this too strongly upon you) that everybody, young' and
old, should occasionally fortify the blood with its natural
mineral elements. This is a fact, and we do not put it
before you as a specious argument, for Anaemia, or poor-
ness oi blood, is admittedly the besetting disease of
Australia, and is the commencement of almost every
serious complaint we hear of. Keep up the blood to its
normal condition, avoid excesses in either eating, drink-
ing, &0., and disease cannot and will not attack you. For
years Clements’ Tonic has been before the' public of
Australia as a scientific chemical food ; it is not a quack
medicine, but a natural combination of nutrient chemical
material, which is essentially requisite to the blood.
Clements’ Tonic has been prescribed by medical men,
eulogised by scientific chemists, patronised by clergymen,
barristers, solicitors, journalists, newspaper proprietors,
and others, all of whom speak of it in the highest terms of
praise. It has cured hundreds of serious cases, never has
failed, and never will fail. If you are suffering from any
disease due to general enervation of the system, anoomia,
or poorness of blood, loss of nerve power or general nervous
weakness, and have tried doctor after doctor and remedy
after remedy without avail, give Clements’ Tonic a
trial, and if there is no real organic or structural disease,
we can confidently guarantee immediate relief, and
perseverance will effect a sure and permanent cure. We
know this to be a fact. The originator and inventor of
Clements’ Tonic is a qualified man, with a rational
remedy which can, will, and must do good and effect cure,
even when the best physicians and most potent drugs of
the materia medica have failed; the testimonials and
endorsements received from all quarters prove this. We
shall be glad to enter into particulars with any corres
pondents who like to address us at Newtown, Sydney,
personally or by post.
“Very glad he used Clements’ Tonic.”
19, Elizabeth-st., Sydney, August 15, 1889.
Dear Sir,—For many months sleep, appetite and nerve
power had almost deserted me, and, at times, I suffered
such severe nervous and neuralgic headaches that life was
almost unbearable.
After trying many “ safe and sure cures,” without relief,
I was persuaded to give Clements’ Tonic a trial, and
am very glad that I did so, fog now I am quite free from
pain, can sleep well, and do my business with a degree of
pleasure that I have not experienced for some months. It
will give me great pleasure to recommend Clements’
Tonic to all my friends and customers on the roads that
I travel, and, wishing the remedy every success, I remain,
yours faithfully, J. T. BOUNDS.
“His Life almost a Burden.”
The Fort, Dawes Point, Sydney, August 12th, 1889.
Sir. -1 have been a great sufferer from langour, loss of
appetite, and depressed spirits, which made my life almost
a burden. I had no inclination to eat or drink even the
most palatable delicacies which make a modern table
agreeable; and to such an extent did the indisposition
affect my general health, that it was impossible for me to
properly attend to my business.
I was recommended to try Clements’ Tonic, which
I did with little hope of relief ; but, after taking a few
doses, I felt a decided change, and by the time I had
finished a bottle, I could sleep the night through, and
awake next morning refreshed and with an appetite for
breakfast. I now eat and drink anything that comes in
my way, and by the use of an occasional dose of your valu-
able Tonic, lam enabled to enjoy life thoroughly.—l re-
main yours faithfully, F. DAVIS.
“ Thought his case beyond the Power of
Medicine.”
Kangaroo Valley, N.S.W., April 3, ’B9.
Dear Sib, — I have very much pleasure in bearing witness
to the great value of Clements’ Tonic in cases of
LASSITUDE, NERVOUSNESS AND CONSTITUTIONAL
DEBILITY GENERALLY. For more than 12 months I
was a martyr to extreme lassitude, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, and their concomitant train of physical troubles,
so much so that I feared I should have to abandon my
profession as a journalist, writing being particularly
irksome and laborious to me. I tried several advertised
tonics (?) with little or no good result, and began to think
my case beyond the power of medicine to cure. • However,
seeing your Tonic advertised in some of my Exchanges,
I concluded to try it as a “ dernier resort;” and I am
pleased to say the result was most satisfactory. After
taking one bottle I found my appetite much improved ; 1
could sleep more soundly, and felt refreshed next morn-
ing. I continued the medicine, taking in all six large
bottles, and gradually all my distressing symptoms dis-
appeared. I now feel myself stronger than ever, and as
near perfect health as a man who has to bear the strain of
constant literary work can expect to be. I can confidently
recommend Clements’ Tonic to all persons suffering
from loss of nerve force through sickness or mental over-
work, and am most happy to support my testimony with
my signature.—And remain, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
P. JEFFERSON WALLACE,
Editor and Proprietor “ Kangaroo Valley Pioneer.”
“ Gave him new Health and Strength.”
75 King Street, Sydney, March 19, ’B9.
Dear Sir, —Kindly send me two more bottles of
Clements’ Tonic and permit me to express my thanks
and gratitude at the results obtained by taking two large
bottles. I had had a great amount of business worry to
contend against, which, together with the long hours I had
stuck to it, completely undermined my constitution, and
made me feel very tired, weak and ill, my nerves being
quite shattered. I was so nervous that the accidental
slamming of a door would cause me to start violently, my
heart would beat very rapidly, and I would break out in a
profuse perspiration, afterwards having a sensation of
extreme weakness, lasting for some hours ; my sleep at
night was disturbed ; I awoke in the morning with head-
ache and aching limbs, and quite unrefreshed. I had no
appetite, no strength, and no inclination to work, and was
completely run out. I was persuaded by your advertise-
ments to try Clements’ Tonic, and am a different man
ever since ; it gave me new health and strength, increased
my appetite, and made me relish my food ; 1 increased in
flesh, I lost all nervous feelings, and now feel stronger
than ever, and am glad to bear tesfmony to the value of
your wonderful remedy. Yours, &0., W. D. BRAHAM.
“ Feels like a New Man altogether.”
Richmond, October 5, 1888.
Dear Sir,—lt is with feelings of great pleasure that I
pen these few lines. I have been a sufferer from GENERAL
DEBILITY and INDIGESTION for the last five years, and
have tried almost every known remedy without the
slightest benefit. I had given up all hope of being cured,
when by good luck I saw your Tonic advertised in the
WiiNDSou Gazette. I determined to try it, and after the
third dose the change was remarkable. I took three
bottles, and now feel like a new man altogether.'
WILLIAM JAMES MARKES.
You have here convincing proof and most conclusive
evidence of the truth of the proprietor’s assertions. These
people have used Clements’ Tonic, are people of
repute, honor and ability, and are competent to judge
of the merits of Clements’ Tonic : when they speak so
truthful and emphatically they must convince the most
sceptical. Clements’ Tonic is sold everywhere at
2s. (Id. and 4s. o<l. per bottle, or packed free and forwarded
on receipt of P. 0.0. by
F. M. CLEMENTS, NEWTOWN.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans,
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, DC Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Perhell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your broad will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hockings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & 00.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOO 1m brokers,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, dec.
ATJCTIOBTEEKS.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
-3LS Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1880; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
J 3200. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m, to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
f.fS
,
\v *'OiCTuCitf&
'$S?:
„«
:,A
*VvV
YOXTKTG OVE DE3 TXT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
r T'HE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, JS'o Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
:'' ' '
1
fb
(-t
i--■ ir»t i
i -r :i lV
s I
IESSS
ELECTRIC PHOTOENC. CO . 8 BRIDCE ST . SYDNEY.
The Oxford 3Elc»tel, XSllixg Street, Sydney.
H. 1 HORFE PPOPKIETOIt.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System
stock: just laudiug
Mettlielm, & 00.
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
lO x YORK x STREET, x SYDWEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the l-OOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details inelndincr MirnrapDv
IMPORTED LEATHERS, Ac.; and of the following Special Lines: l*eerlpss «i««^ CH J N £. RY >
(Clacking. Tanners’ Tools and Materials, pr Indents Execufed on Tenns ’ *" blan
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
ilipj
WSCTSH
l-i —
•■•■ or ■(
tlpTOEf’’
DR. RICHARDS
1
r
r =
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe, lie has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES,
lie has by profound research i horoughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely r cognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. Ii is practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning 01
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
'he day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
regularity of the bowel •>, specks before the eyes,
ba-hfulness, discon en ted ness weakness or pains
in the back, L ver or kidney complaints, dreams,
fuzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, tmeon ro lab'e temper, hackmg
cough, who ca not marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these d fflculti s. On receipt of fid. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, pos'age
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of Hie private or
nervous sy-tem may bo cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
lion and prescription may a-sist you in restoring
some poor friend to heauh even after his case has
been pronounc d incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment as procrastination is sometimes dan-
got ous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your duimber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a 1 tie-, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the ca e, tend for his famous medical
work, >he price of which is but sixpence ; cnolosed
in the volume wi 1 bo found a 1 st of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never p escribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by Arc,
and patten s may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has pc mission from at least 10,000 persons to
show iheir written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Sparing- street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION LULL.
Miss Quito : “Turn filter, Bi ly, this is going to bo a hot summer. *'


Beale & Co.’s New Warehouse.
M-
;• .r; •
O
Li
W
ODB NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES!
483 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
case and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
ALARGER RANGE OF APPLIANGEB is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL-PLATING.—In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
Parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK, is handsomer than ever
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for .weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees; thus when kept out of damp
mid sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
i'HE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
of its own accord when the bobin is full.
jA, baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
their choicest handiwork; the boy’s tweed suit ,
j.,, rawmg-room carpet, may all he stitched by the won-
... hEALK Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
JJf™ ln dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
of ch t6ry shown and explained at our offices free
o r 'y'tb the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
nr foil u , se ’ you can beln any width, make double
Us, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
i seams
Drp ,| a , n d such like for fancy work; you may make a
or Viace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
Wiling «r sew 0,1 trimmings without guiding, make
with f’ ru ™ m g, or ruching ; quilt, weave your own braid
samp com bination of colours, and stitch it on at the
am i m l “ ne > make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
easilv^a 8111 ' 8 ’ Mndow curtains, and so forth; you can
nathpri, ra Pidly perform the fashionable shirring or
with so .P°Pularfor sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
hoods n, a t lance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
a band „ j ays > do large cording; gather with or without
any ma’tp 11 ' i ei , ler ®i y do all kinds of straight sewing upon
W ods U la i whatever. You can darn upon any woven
e yelet hni r o , crewe i work. You may make button and
upon In,, i . overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
can ' J,'r erials . This work is absolutely unique, and
acco ,uplished upon the BEALE Patent
at anv °*l thesc Performances will be shown at our shops
which i'av, ne 'i- TW BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
sewing „™?t r . ave b yet by a momentary alteration the
This tip,.i,r* bo done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
We bin, to U altered,
husinpus ? a s P e °l a l word for husbands : When the day’s
“‘ess is over, and the
< }S sometimes useful when children’s clothes
wife-AUG u ', el > ana the evening meal is finished, the
Be "’intr, \vv?v? s s * s t er or daughter—sits down to her
do anvil,;,,™ 11, l er . bands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
anythin™ iV “anus aio
corner of tn lce the whole of the work required.
With which oi, 100111 ' s Perhaps an old-fashioned ma
With a nni D S ,! 10 M laay ’ by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with
seam :\ut that'-^ 0 -- a Bausa ge-maohine, a simple straight
do at rfC ttlat 18 110 grea
''MohV ho S k withit,
reat help. She ought to be able to
'sat ’fl ' 't, short of stitching on buttons,
where the lari* ' n< l we have known some instances
?** taachino«; the house is anxious to obtain a first-
“pher, hut th’ n* 1 which will be the greatest of all helps
why, h • ," e husband demurs on the score of expense.
Which win „ 0e on , y article of the household furnishing
% will f, r Tpturn you any part of the cost! If the
C|, own a wpou’ 111 NUST earn far more than the half-a-
pWrment she ~,;v? ecessa ry to purchase it. On one little
phased comfeP save that sum, so that in addition to in-
feed, but ratHi ( i Ur household expenses will not be en-
“fiALlj Patpl™ . he diminished, by the possession of a
f'bney V 1 MACHINE. How often do we waste
;? 8 % exuensi,^ aI Y. useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
“Uoalq far ve articles and indulgences ? The Machine
clearing. :i. an pay for itself during the time you
ot savin™ an< t it will then become your own, earn-
ae d a as before. Is it not fairly to be
MUTABLE INVESTMENT?
Qp jp ~~
" ■ Terms. , Price Lists and Samples
Frc e by Post.
482 A a R ; e & Company,
° tft «Cup GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
r munches and Travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. 6EDDBS & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
#
XJSE
LiEßie COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
Awarded Gold Medal for Excellence
M‘Mab’s Galley Brand Whisky.
GALLEY^
f|N£ OLD NB
P
IK
y.
/
9
“SWEET SPIRIT, HEAR MY PRAYER.”
Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1889.
HILL, CLARK Ss CO.,
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS,
STOCK: & STATION AG-ETTTS,
HAVING unrivalled facilities for the Storage and Display of Wool, either in Bulk or Sample
and having largely enjoyed the support of Wool-growers for so many years, appeal with every
confidence for a continuance of their clients’favours. The season bids fair to be exceptionally "oud
and prices realised will doubtless prove highly satisfactory to growers.
The SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
is each year proving increasingly attractive to English, Continental and American Mann-
facturers, who prefer making their purchases here at first hand. Should owners, however, desire it
we are prepared to
SETUP UUDEB LIBEEAL CASH .A, ID VA IST CE
to our Agents. For all wools offered but not sold merely a nominal charge is made.
Regular Sales held of Wool, Sheepskins, Marsupial Skins, Hides, Tallow, Leather, Grain,
and all Station Produce. Bi-weekly Sales of Stock at Homehush and Corporation Yards.
Large and Extensive Paddock Accommodation at Home bush, Black town, and
Dubbo for both Sheep and Cattle,
All Consignments receive prompt and personal attention upon arrival. Way-Bills and all further
information on application.
Wool Warehouses - CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Head Office, 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Branch Office at DUBBO
Business Announcements.
The British ami New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1871
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Omen: 240 PITT STREET.
THUDS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances grunted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years ..., .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 0 per cent.
0 Mouths .... .... 8 per cent.
3 Months .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Month,
and over.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT &. COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects arc Marvellous!
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
O years Western Australia has made very
great progress, and, now that the success and per-
manency of the various Coal, Gold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerative
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
PERTH,
the Capital City of the Coming Colony, whilst
it is Cheap.
RIO BUILDING SITES! £XO
Ten Pounds. Ten Pounds.
Large Allotment!*- Lined Freehold Bal’ding
Laud. Splendid Posit ion. Torrens’ Title.
City Allotments from £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.-
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy Terms. Dis-
count for Cash. Buyers of Five Lots receive a
Title FREE OF CHARGE.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad-
dress on application by
The Intercolonial Investment So., Limitei,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
browns
fUJIO DRESSIHG
SATIN
r XADIES'
TPUNKSJ* 080 .
\ n»«u»Tcnin«tt “s
BOSTON <
si
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded hiyhcst honors at
o
Melbourne, 1880
Frankfort, 1881
Amsterdam 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoe?
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’ga.
The bank of new Zealand-
Sydney Branches:
01 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
|
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
I throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. E. GIBLIN, Manager.
pows
EMBROCATION
IUJ-s
3*
T:
f ¥ LO ;
l\ EVERYWHERE'
:-V
ò


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, October 1, 1889.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Dates to which
Nature of Works and Supplies. „ eil^er «
11 can be received
_____ at this office.
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Liverpool
Foundations, New Central Police
Office
Repairs, &c., Court House, Quean-
beyan
Supply of Gas, &c., Public Build-
ings, Bathurst
Additions Police Officers’ Quarters,
Goulburn
Repairs, &0., Courthouse and
Lockup, Nimitybelle
Drainage, &c., TYohnological Mu-
seum
Additions, &c., Courthouse, Tam-
worth
Bridge Cox’s Creek, road Ooolah
to Mulally
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office,
Bingera
Bridge, Camden Haven River, road
Port Macquarie to Tinonee
Bridge, Cooper’s Creek, road Bex-
hill to Numulgi
Bridge, Bombala River at Bibben-
luke
Station Buildings, St. Leonards
Stoneware Pipe Sewers, Wool-
lahra, Waver ley, and Rand wick,
cont. No. 53, Sydney sewerage
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office,
Corowa
Bridge, Rainville Creek, road
Sidmouth Valley to Tarana
Do. Wallamundra Creek, Road
Condobolin to Wagga Wagga
Approaches, Bridge, Murray River
at Mulwala
Bridge, Yango Creek, road Wol-
lombi to Yango
Bridge, Myall River, at Bulleda-
lah (Pier’s Contract, No. 1)
Bridge, Myall River, at Bulleda-
lah (Erection, Contract No. 2)
Bridge, Scotter’s Creek, road Dun-
gog to Weismantie’s
Bridge, Strike-a-Light Creek, road
Cooma to Braidwood
Bridge, Gulgoa River, road Con-
dobolin to Wagga Wagga
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Booligal
Construction of Iron Screw Hopper
Barge
Boiler and Engines for steamer
Thetis, Manufacture of
Bridge, Mograni Creek, road
Stroud to Tinonee
Wednesday
October 9,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
October 23,
at 11 o’clock,
Supply and Erection of Pumping
Engines, North Shore (contract
No. 56)
Additions, &c., Australian Mu-
Wednesday,
Nov. 6,
at 11 o’clock.
seum.
Additions, Court House, Gosford
Bridge, Hunter River at Elderslie,
Ironwork, Contract No. 1
Ditto ditto ditto, Erection, Con-
tract No. 2
Wednesday,
Nov. 20,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
“DONCASTER,”
281-George Street—2ol
(opposite Hunter Street)
-SYDNEY-
IS
Now Ready for Business.
Sports and Art Union.
Eight-Hour Demonstration,
To be held at
ROSEHILL RACECOURSE
ON
MONDAY, OCTOBER 7.
ROSEHILL is acknowledged to be the prettiest
racecourse in the colonies, being replete with all
modern appliances for carrying out sports, and in
addition being specially adapted for a Picnic in
every respect. Summer-houses, Tables, Seals,
with abundance of Water, both from Tanks and
Water-pipes, with special facilities for Boiling
Water, the whole of which have been erected in
the most convenient portions of the Grand Stand
reserves; also, lovers of Dancing may have a
thorough day's enjoyment in a magnificent
Dancing Pavilion under the Grand Stand, which
for size, ventilation, and finish is second to none
in the colony. The conveniences afforded make
this the most desirable Ground for holding a
Monster Demonstration and Picnic.
What the Railway Authorities Say :
That in selecting Rosehill we have overcome the
difficulties of conveying passengers by train ex-
perienced some years ago, as the Rosehill line,
which branches off at Clyde, being one mile in
length, and a double line terminating at the Race-
course, where a MAGNIFICENT PLATFORM,
1000 ft. in length, has been erected, will afford
them special facilities for the conveyance of an
enormous concourse of people, which may, under
these circumstances, be done with ease and com-
fort, the journey occupying about 25 minutes from
Redfern by special train. In consideration of
these facts, the Committee have decided to have
NO STEAMER TRAFFIC.
The Programme of Sports will be superior
both in Quality and Novelty to anything pre-
viously attempted, comprising—Apprentices’Han-
dicap, All-Comers Handicap, Old Buffers, Eight-
Hour Handicap, Tug-of-War, Steeplechase, Walk-
ing Match, Sack Race (open to all-comers); post
entries. Three-Legged Race (open to all-comers);
post entries. And two of the Greatest Novelties,
ever introduced, viz ;
UMBRELLA AND CIGAR RACE on Horse-
back, in Costume; one mile and a quarter.
Riders to be dismounted and at the fall of the
flag to open their umbrellas, light their cigars,
mount and then race. Umbrellas to be kept
open during the race and cigars to be alight at
the finish. Closed with 10 entries.
MENAGERIE RACE, 200yds., including a turn.
The animal or bird to be driven with a string.
Entries for this event open until FRIDAY,
October 4.
Sports and Art Union Prizes, Value £750.
THE GRANDEST ART UNION
Yet placed before the public.
First Prize.— Magnificent Black and Gold Piano
value £O5, presented by Anthony Hordern and
Sons (Haymarket only).
Second Prize. —“ Haydn ” Organ, Seven Stops,
value £2O 55., presented by Beale and Co.,
George-street.
Third Prize.— Splendid Walnut Suite, up-
holstered in Tapestry, presented by the Com-
mittee, value £22.
And in addition to above,
One Prize value £l3 135., Two Prizes value over
£ll, Seven Prizes value over £lO, One Prize
value £9, One Prize value £7 10s., One Prize
value £6 65., Twenty-one Prizes value from
£5 ss. to £3 35., One Hundred Prizes value
from £2 10s. to £l, Sixty-eight Prizes value
from 18s. to 7s. 6d.
A large portion of the Prizes will be on view at
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS’, Hay-
market, large window in George-street ; BEALE
and CO., 482, 484, 486 George-street, front and side
windows; HENRY PAIN and CO.’(late Holds-
worth), 448 George-street, where TICKETS may
also be obtained. *
Tickets: ADULTS, 2s. including RAILWAY
TICKET to and from Rosehill, ADMISSION to
GROUND and CHANCE in ART UNION.
CHILDREN (over eight and under 14), Railway
and Admission only, Is.
NOTE.-ONE ADULT TICKET may be pur-
chased, with chance in Art Union, to SERVE
TWO CHILDREN.
In addition to above, TICKETS MAY BE OBTAINED
FROM
Bray Brothers, 402 George-street
Gowing Brothers, Drapers, George-street
Craig and Aitken, Tobacconists, Brickfield-hill
S. J. Kirby, Bookseller, Brickfleld-hill
M. Simmons, Tobacconist, Haymarket
Kerr and Todd, Watchmakers, &0., George-street, near
Railway
A. F. Brown, Tobacconist, near Railway
Temperance-hall, Pitt-street
T. G. Wilton, Hairdresser, 135 Devonshire-street
J. E. Spragg, Bookseller, 125 Oxford-street
J. E. Bowden, Tobacconist, 13 Oxford-street
Israel and Co., Furniture Warehouse, Oxford-street,
Darlinghurst
Skrine Brothers, Oxford-street, Paddington.
H. J. Lovett, Tobacconist, Waverley.
G. Watson, Tobacconist, Rand wick,
F. Button (late How), 299 Parramatta-road, Leichhardt.
H. E. Davidson, Refreshment Room, Johnson-street,
Annandale.
Marcus Clark, Draper, Newtown.
H. Gould, Painter, &c., Rockdale.
A. S. Ritchie, 190 Missenden-road, Camperdown.
W. Ritchie, Grocer, Marrickville.
J. R. Talbot, Bathurst-street.
Beale & Co., Parramatta.
Buy yom* Ticket* Early!
Special Trains will leave Redfern Station every few
minutes, starting at 9.45 a.m., and Trains leaving after
1 p.m. will call at suburban stations.
Go to mil It Y Z^Z~ GH
B. GOODE, Secretary.
Temperance Hall, Pitt-street.
Miscellaneous.
T HE three _great LIGHTs
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine'
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp'
AND THE
New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted k „
hallway Commissioners for lighting the li V f
trams. We were awarded the Hk-Wf n j (lu ' v
Merit and Special Mention by exiwrt ■ . , uf
late Melbourne Exhibition for our Vu*
mediums. Over GOOD Harvey Lamps ■ l tln «
in this colony, and for all lighting pi UTlf Uii| '
giving universal satisfaction. These Lum ai ' (:
be seen on one of the North Shore ferrv iL* 3 ?' 11
and are suitable for all classes of vessels ti
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as i
a Kerosene Burner. ° f ’"" 1
Patentees for Australasia 1
H- T. SMU “3? El & eo
41)1 Kent: Street Soutli, SlB>\|. v y. ‘ J
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAXI), VI<'TOUIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor,
Keen's Patent Unlrealai Saddle Cun
LI.M(TKI). [• t 5
Factory and Office: 'VIS t asllereagli street
(Late 245)
SYDdNiE Y.
New Style of Tree.
The Company is now prepared to manufacture till kinds
of Saddles. Any infringement of the Patent will he pro-
secuted. No Saddle genuine without our Trade Mark.
ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary.
N D \ i / 7 / x
Photographic, 1
VtLWS tt^PORTLAITS
rWH E/r
M.G
ONE
ssisukds '
.«NL
LARMEE’S
—CELEBRATED—
Health-Giving
AND
Invigorating Tome.
THE TONIC OF THE AGE!
This being one of the best Restoratives yetoffeied
to the Public in the form of a Tonic.
Warranted to Build up the Constitution, at
the same time acts as a
Strengthening Be st0 ’
native in all cases of
Nervous Debility, Mental & Bodily Weakness,
SICK HEADACHE,
Bilious Complaints, Fever and Ague,
&c., &0.
Bottles £t/fc 2s. 6d. & £5S ‘
Post, Is Extra.
W. G. CAINS,
King Street,
SYDNEY.
BROTH
FO B
Paints
wall papers fr.om%* 01l
Vh'
tSt
529 George St/
-- Brickfiel d
Wool.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & 00.
Wool Stores ; CFNTRATi WHARF; Produce Stores : CIRCULAR QUAY;
Offioea: .... 40 MiLCQXJiILR.IEI STREET KTORTKC.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ P.T.” : Sorry not to have acknowledged your
letter. Get so many, some occasionally go astray
“E. West” : Quality is the only consideration “James
Smith ”: (1.) Cable of Hanlan-Trickett race came by
Reuter, and all Sydney papers got it simultaneously.
(2.) Fastest on record, Searle-O’Connor race ; time, one
hour and 52 minutes to Sydney “ Kelly’s Point”:
Thanks. Will consider, and, if possible, reconstruct
“ Captain’s Plat” : The essence of Protection is prohibit-
ory taxation ; the single-taxers profess to abolish all taxes,
save that on the land-value created not by individual
exertions, but by that of the community. Hence the
anatagonism. The Bulletin recommends State resumption
right through—to this the single-tax must come eventually.
..“Thistle”; Well, tell us. The start will be given..
“Homo” (Q.): Will'read it “Viotus”: It came, we
saw, ’tis conquered “ Buster ” : A selection of extracts
from The Bulletin - is in the press and will shortly be pub-
lished—at a shilling “ L.J.”; The fact that Mr. Joseph
Palmer, sharebroker, denounces the bookmakers as gam-
blers is only another proof that if you are very pious you
can only be unconsciously humorous.... “ W. 8.5.” : Statis-
tician Hayter is a Freetrader “ W. J.E.” : The influence
of the Press is not dependant altogether on its arguments.
When the fate of a cause is in the balance, life or death is
all a question of advertising. The truth will prevail if
well advertised, and lies will prevail if well advertised.
No man can read the same paper day after day and yet
not be consciously or unconsciously influenced by it.
Further, no man can read anything in print and not be
influenced by it to a greater extent than he would be
influenced by reading precisely the same matter in manu-
script. The great power of the Press lies in suppression,
and if you want a proof of this first read the Parliamen.
tary reports and comments in the daily papers and then
read Hansard, the official report. The reports in
the daily papers convey no idea at all of what happens
in Parliament—either in England or in Australia
“A.L.J.”; Yes—true as a Waltham watch. P.S.—This
ought to he an advt “Spring Yale”; We know 37
living and at least 93 dead languages, have deciphered
cuneiform inscriptions at Nineveh, and never fail to interpret
hieroglyphs and anaglyphs of every kind, but your screed
staggers us. We hold it over for the inspection of the
shade of the departed Cardinal Mezzofanti, who is due
at a spiritualistic seance on Sunday evening
“L. Macquarie ” : Thanks “G.E.E.”: Thanks, why
don’t you try? “Smith”: Have not yet read
“P. J.M.” : Nothing amounts to a divorce except an
actual decree pronounced by the Supreme Court. Mere
separation doesn’t mean divorce “Menindie”: The
only way to straighten round shoulders is to take scientifi-
cally-regulated exercise “ W.F.S.” (Ellerslie): We
don’t know, but will inquire “B. Ridley”; We
wouldn’t trust either of them With two-pence. ..“T.J.8.”:
A good idea, and drawing of excellent promise; but,
then, you see, the subject is not of sufficiently wide in-
terest “ J.D.” : Life is too short for such orthographic
refinements. How can a man spell Smith with two “ r’s?”
....“M.C.” (Rockhampton): Don’t trust him with a
cent. ; 50,000 to 1 it is a mere trap for your poor little £l*
“0.5t.0.”: Thanks, a mere inadvertence “A.J.D.”:
Your test case would not prove the fallibility or otherwise
of juries, it would only show the fallibility of human
nature, and would no more furnish an argument for the
abolition of the jury system than under similar circum-
stances it would prove the advisableness of wiping out
judges.
From the daily press : —
Sir Henry Parkes will save an address in the Leichhardt
Town Hall, on Wednesday, on “ How a lonely man dedi-
cated his fortune to the cause of woman.”
Good old Sir Henry has illustrated his subject by
personal example, we are inclined to think.
One of Sullivan’s backers provided himself
with a small phial of “ Knock ” holy water which
he threw over J. L. as he toed the mark. He
nearly lost his life over it, for the big un’s backers
thought he was dosing their man. As soon as he
had “ knocked ” Kilrain out, Sullivan said to a
friend, “ Tom, the holy water and my old mother’s
blessing were too much for Jake and his crowd.”
In mentioning the meeting at Melbourne
Town Hall to protest against the Sunday tyranny
of the Melbourne Calvinists and Co., a Sydney
paper says: —“No one of any note attended.”
People “of note” can have a lot of Sunday fun at
their own homes. The 2000 people who attended
not being persons “of note,” are not worth con-
sidering, and are to be the serfs of the dour-faced
inquisitors of the Kirk.
Premier Parkes has received an intimation
from the Political Department, Bombay Castle,
that the Kunvar Bhaosingji Madhaosing, heir
presumptive to the Rana of Porbandar Kathiawar,
is about to visit N.S. Wales with his.tutor, Mr.
O’Shea, and asking that the Kunvar may be suit-
ably received. All right, Bombay Castle, wo are
getting ready to receive the gentleman. But we
hope he won’t turn out to be a fragile little darkey
with thin bow legs.
Mrs. Landels has petitioned the Victorian
Governor to reprieve her husband on the ground
that the shooting of Sherlock may have been acci-
dental. Bandels is evidently a very mean man,
not to say a very bad lot; but it does not follow
that because, after Sherlock’s death, he took
possession of all the dead man’s effects within his
reach, and actually committed forgery to obtain
Sherlock’s money, that he deliberately killed, for
the sake of gain, the man whom he shot. The
desire to steal may have only been the result, not
the cause, of Sherlock’s death. In a word, it is
quite possible that Sherlock’s death was the result
of an accident, which a depraved man subse-
quently sought to turn to pecuniary account.
Wife : “ Every husband who has any
respect for his wife and family takes them away
somewhere every year. ” Brutal Husband: “Good!
Then they won’t know we’re at home.” —Ex.
A shoe merchant’s small boy painted on
the fence: “If you want good shoes go to Mr.
; Dr. Case’s small kid witnessed the opera-
tion. and, determined to sustain his father’s repu-
tation, added to the fence the legend : “If you
want good babies go to Dr. Case.”— Amek.
Kibblewhite, of the Spartan Harriers, lately
won an open mile handicap, for which there were
”04 entries and 170 starters, in 4 min. 23 and l-ssec.
Considering that he had to thread his way through
such a vast field the performance is equal to any-
thing previously done by an amateur.
So Mister Crown-Prosecutor Browning
approves of the action of Judge Windeyer in run-
ning the drunken Tamworth witnesses into gaol
for a year off-hand. But then, bless you, you
can’t expect a lawyer who has to travel round with
Judge Windeyer on circuit to write a protest in
tincture of cantharides on the bare back of the
man who tried the Mount Rennie case. The
junior reporter doesn’t rush up to the editor and
tell him that his leading article is below par, and
so, whatever Mr. Browning may think, we can’t
reasonably expect him to go for Judge Windeyer
with a fly-blister. All the same, we bet that when
Browning becomes a judge he won’t have the
audacity to practically suspend the Habeas Corpus
Act on the ground that somebody has deliberately
drunk too much rum-and-milk.


r
H
K.
ò
o
ò
3BOSFiGrIL.-A.3R.Y..
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
Tobacconists.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
ó
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD,
Wholesale Agents ;
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & C 0. 7
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO A CIGAR IMPORTER.
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Ilavannah Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated •• S<’lor clc Itonitn ”
Brand of Cigars and *• Empire Cigarettes."
Medical.
f
(\
,2%.
'A
nT t
A Lovely Skin
Nothing ia known to science at all comparable
to the Cuticura Remedies in their marvellous
properties of cleansing, purifying and beautifying
the skin, and in curing torturing, disfiguring, itch-
ing, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin, scalp
and blood, with loss of hair from infancy to age.
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the now
Blood Purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula.
I have had a most wonderful cure of salt rheum.
For five years I have suffered with this disease. I
had it on my face, arms and hands. I was unable
to do anything whatever with my hands for over
two years. I tried hundreds of remedies, and not
one had the least effect. The doctor said my case
was incurable. I saw your advertisement, and
concluded to try the Cuticura Remedies; and
incredible as it may seem, that after using one
box of Cuticura, and two cakes of Cuticura
Soap, and two bottles of Cuticura Resolvent, I
find I am entirely cured. Those who think this
letter exaggerated may come and see me and find
out for themselves. GRACE P. HARKHAM,
North St. Charles Street, Belle River, Ont.
Cuticura Remedies are absolutely pure and the
only infallible blood purifiers and skin beautifiers.
TIN
TED with the loveliest delicacy is the skin
| bathed with Cdticuba Medicated Soap.
I have been afflicted since last March with a skin
disease the doctors called eczema. My face was
covered with scabs and sores, and the itching and
burning were almost unbearable. Seeing your
Cuticura Remedies so highly recommended, con-
eluded to give them a trial, using the Cuticura
and Cuticura Soap externally, and Resolvent*
internally, for four months. I call myself cured,
in gratitude for which I make this public statement.
CLARA A. FREDERICK, Broad Brook, Conn.
I have suffered from Salt Rheum for over eight
years, at times so bad that I could not attend to
my business for weeks at a time. Three boxes of
Cuticura and four bottles Resolvent have en-
tirely cured me of this dreadful disease.
JOHN THIEL,
1875 Second Avenue, New York City.
The box of Cuticura that you sent me some
months ago did mo so much good that I will send
for another box, believing that it will cure mo of a
skin disease with which I have been troubled for
eighteen years.
FANNIE I. JOHNSON, Amsterdam, Va.
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticura, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $1. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
IKS'Send for “How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 61
pages, 50 illustrations, and ICO testimonials.
ţ
PLES, blackheads, chapped and oily skin
prevented by Cutxcttka Medicated Soap.
Address: K. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Anglo Scandinavian
Cold Medal
Condensed
Milk.
dged
The
est
HIGHLY IMUTRITJVE
Coeoci
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT COLONY.
Two Visits.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
Five years ago Australia crossed the seas.
Her brow that should have shone with virgin grace
Was black; her eyes that should have beamed
with love
Were fires of hate ; her hands that should be white
Were smeared with blood ; her lips were splashed
with blood ;
And where she trod blood lay ; and when she spoke
Her words, like fangs, ate into human hearts.
Beyond the seas kings welcomed her. They took
Her for a daughter of their House who loved
The lives they lived. So young she was and yet
So smeared and splashed and violent of face
That they were sure that in the aftertime
Her hands, like theirs, would force the People
down,
And gyve and chain them to a sunless fate ;
Would make the few the masters, knot their
whips,
And teach them to dig pits in human flesh.
Beyond the seas queens welcomed her. They held
Her hands in theirs, and to her lips their lips
That dabbled in the death of men they pressed.
They spoke to her of crowns bought with hot tears,
And thrones bought with hot blood, and shining
robes
Made out of nights of blinded women’s work.
And kings and queens called up a garish crowd,
Half lacquey and half-comrade, clothed in gold
And starred with gems and daubed with paint,
and said :
“ This is the youngest of the Empires. See,
She is our child ! That blood upon her hands
She drew from men who fought for their own
hearths,
That blood upon her lips she sucked from veins
Of men who fought to make their country free !
We, Kings and Queens and Capital, are one !”
And ere they parted they together sang :
“ The earth and all the goods thereof are ours.
We own its singing-birds, its blowing flow’rs;
We own the fruits that hang from bush and tree!
We own the kine that browse on grassy lea ;
We own the herds of horse, the flocks of sheep
That feed on hill-tops and in valleys deep;
We own the men who work, the wives they love;
We own the earth and all the goods thereof I”
II.
Beyond the seas, again, Australia stands.
Her brow is white, her eyes are bright, her face
And form are purified from early stains.
A People welcome her. A People bowed
In rags and wasting hunger welcome her.
They bore the gyve and chain from sire to son;
From sire to son the knotted whip was swung
By Royalty and Capital, and while
It whizzed above their heads they lower bowed,
And begged the right to moil and starve and die.
At last hope shone. They raised their heads and
stood
Erect. But doubt was busy with their hearts,
And in their hearts a sick fear lay, for loud
The whizzing whip rang out. One minute more
And in their flesh the knots had dug red pits,
And down the mangled slaves had bowed again.
But now Australia crossed the seas, and gave
Her hand, her heart, her riches, unto them.
Back turned the kings who would have kissed her
hand,
Back shrank the queens who would have kissed
her lips,
Back swarmed the crowd, half-lacquey and one-half
The garish comrade of the royal caste,
And down for ever fell the whizzing whip.
Between Australia and the kings and queens
Whose hands are red with blood beyond the seas,
The bond once strong is severed, but between
Australia and the victims of their greed
A bond to last for aye is forged to-day !
THETA.
Not Understood.
Not understood. We move along asunder ;
Our paths grow wider as the seasons creep
Along the years, we marvel and we wonder
Why life is life ; and then we fall asleep, •
Not understood.
Not understood. We gather false impressions,
And hug them closer as the years go by,
The virtues often seem to us transgressions ;
And thus men rise and fall, and live and die,
Not understood.
Not understood. Poor souls with stunted visions
Oft measure giants with their narrow gauge;
The poison’d shafts of falsehood and derision
Are oft imped’d ’gainst those who mould the
age,
Not understood.
Not understood. The secret springs of action,
Which lie beneath the surface and the show,
Are disregarded : with self-satisfaction
We judge our neighbours; and they often go
Not understood.
Not understood. How trifles often change us—
The thoughtless sentence, and the fancied slight
Destroy long years of friendship, and estrange us,
A.nd on our souls there falls a freezing blight;
Not understood.
Not understood. How many breasts are aching
For lack of sympathy ? Ah I day by day,
How many cheerless lonely hearts are breaking?
How many noble spirits pass away,
Not understood ?
O God ! that men would see a little clearer,
Or judge less harshly where they cannot see I
O God ! that men would draw a little nearer
To one another ! - they’d be nearer Thee,
And understood.
ANON.
Wanted, the name of the woman who was
at the bottom of the row between Parkes and
Admiral Fairfax.
A property (especially a newspaper) man
aged by a board of directors is like a broody hen
owned by six old women : they are always lifting
off the animal, individually and collectively, tc
see how the eggs are getting along.
Dear Bulletin, — I have just returned from N. Queens
land, including Croydon and Etheridge districts, and raj
attention has been drawn to a letter signed “ Hard Graft,’
in your issue of 7th inst. “Hard Graft” makes out a
very plausible case for the miner, but does not altogether
confine himself to facts. In the first place, the people
whom he designates “ mostly brokers and so on,” doubt-
less acting in many instances for Southern scrip-holders,
are also mine-owners and employers of labour themselves,
and I consider their attempts to reduce wages are per-
fectly justifiable and well warranted by circumstances.
As to their failure, this statement is not borne out by
facts, for, during my visit, many men were working at tl
10s., and there is little doubt others will soon follow. The
fact remains that though the reefs have been exceedingly
rich, very few dividends have been paid, and this is almost
entirely due to the high pay and the unskilled labour that
demands it. Any man that comes along, dog-poisoner 01
boundary-rider, is, without enquiry, enrolled a member
of the A.M.A., and at once demands his £4. This is the
great evil, for no mine will stand whipdrivers and other top
hands recruited from the ranks of station rouseabouts
getting such wages. If the A.M.A. admitted miners
only, things would not be so bad, but when every Tom,
Dick and Harry that comes along is enrolled, then I say
no mines can stand such extortion. There is no
“ impudent falsehood ” in the statement that miners can
live for 17s. per week. As a matter of fact, by boarding
themselves they can live well for 14s. or 15s. ;
the hotels and boarding-houses board them for 18s.,
and “Hard Graft” is simply mis-stating matters
when he makes such assertions. The best of
beef is sold retail at twopence per lb., and all
sorts of groceries and provisions are sold as cheaply as on
the “ Barrier ’’ and other places, where real miners get £3.
Were the miners to accept lower wages, I know for certain
that many more would be employed at once, but until
they agree to more reasonable terms a rich district must re-
main unremunerative. Croydon is no worse than other
fields in Queensland where wages rule much lower, and,
though no advocate for cheap labour, I believe in giving
Capital a little show, and this, that prostituted association,
the A.M.A., is not inclined to do. I went to Croydon on
behalf of friends of mine in Adelaide, but until wages are
reduced, there is little fear of their money going there.
Other things are also militating against the mines, includ-
ing the high rates of cartage to the batteries, and the
crushing-charges ; but the wages question is the main one,
and until the Southern investor can see some little show
of getting interest for his money, there is very small
chance of fresh investments being made at Croydon. No
doubt “ Hard Graft” will have something to say in reply,
but as I shall be leaving Australia in -the course of a
week or so for some eight or nine months on a visit to the
Transvaal, I shall not have an opportunity of again saying
anything about the matter. — South Australian.


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & G-uaiant.ee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872 ,
CAPITAL .... £500,000.
Sydney Branch :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
Brisbane Branch ;
CORNER EDWARD AND ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
Money Lent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards to
any amount, repayable by instalments extending
from 1 to 7 years, at current rates of interest.
The Company also grant immediate Advances up m
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
Mercantile or other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months ... f! per cent.
Six ~ ... 7 ~
Twelve „ ... 8 „
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
renewal, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
DIVIDEND of 10 per cent, per annum declared for the
last half-year is now due, and payable to shareholders at
the Company’s Head Offices or Branches,
Applications for Shares.—Forms of Application for the
Company’s new issue of 20,000 Shares at par, authorised by
the last general meeting of shareholders, can be obtained
upon application to any of the Branches as above.
—THE—
federal reversionary investment
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY. LIMITED.
( Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187 U.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET
AGENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits:—3 years, 10 per cent. ; 12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATING
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office; 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
Jambs Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; Jambs A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney ;
T. D. Merton, Ounningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
cqlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatoiy) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Ounningar, near Harden.
For further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Doth Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCOA.
-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OP
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Business Announcements.
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. Georye Thornton, M.L.A.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
THE AUSTRAL BANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
(PHILLIPS & CO).
Reserve Capital Account
Reserve Fund
Total Assets over Liabilities
Head Office
Melbourne Office
London Office ....
£250,000
61,431 10 10
"" .... .... 311,431 10 10
Sydney, N.S.W.
464 Collins Street.
1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices ....
fN.S.W.: Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
[Victoria: Lara.
Rates for Fixed Deposits over £3O :
7i per cent, for 3 Years
7 „ 12 Months
6 per cent.
5 „
for 6 Months.
3 „
Balance Sheets and further information may oe obtained on application to
JT. JE 9 . Cowell,
6 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
Manager.
“What is Home without a Picture?”
Xj. bbbuascoui,
(Late K Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Out to any Design.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
:f. SHEOEDBB'
LIVELY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
Hotels.
BourheS 1
ELEOUIME
TRAMS PASS
EVERT FEW MINUTES
I I Ilf I MM B B
& & M®7gQ. l^taa
PALACE HOTEL
m
» n/
J.A.WILSON
PBOPRIETOP
MANAGE*
The PALACE HOTEL, BOUEKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
—is —
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three HrirtdLrecl Mlagu-ifioeixt Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT &. COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
m- Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
mr TWO IPJVSSIBUGI-IBI?, OTIS LIFTS.
)-(
Ladies’ Boadoir* Drawing* Smoking* and Reading Rooms.
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL.-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Tkos. Cook & Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms : Single Bedroom, 2s. 6dL. per KTiglxt.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
Medical.
SMITH, TJ.S.A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... Prom 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
PULVERMACHEB’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOE THE CUBE OP
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, See.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
Eor full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Eeee.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria;
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-street West, Melbourne.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselvesof Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organa.
Sold in Paris by
J. FER-R E,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST & ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation: ■
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S Y 3D 3XT B ~ST.
Business Announcements.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allk’nds of Tins for Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
/X Trial Solicited..
p. C. NICHOLES & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 736
HAYMAEEIET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order. •
—AUSTRALIAN—
Seller ||lour and ||raiii Jtorc^,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office : - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brnnton’s Patent Roller Flour
—awarded —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89,
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE RE 0.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydnbt,
between
Liverpool <(: Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly dons.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
Mi
%
%
3?
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
SELTit'
y
:W
n
70
-i
/'J
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete -with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Bains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
“belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full inf ormation and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
Without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, Q. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. Janies D. Llewellyn,
L.R.C.P., M.R.0.5., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
/'between Swanston db Elizabeth Sts.),
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
jagf” All Personal Consultations are FREE; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases —price,
3s. 6d, (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing G 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s- Celebrated Eye Lotion.
rpms valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
-1 and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
_ ~x: I The Public are requested to notice the
wcIU.W.OH ! words, Rose s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOB
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
of! on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
EC- A. ROSES,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post St. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
‘ RHEUMATIC PILLS.
JJ ERV O U S DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, OF BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
Ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Musskn’s Pills, which
kre a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per-course. Sent
unobserved. Address —
Herr Bass-Mussen, “ Boselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOR FATTENING AM, KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Bbport by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst :
“I have tested a sample of the ‘Maoio Meal’ for
pobonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenic and have
to report, afte.i a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
Injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tms
article should fulfil all the conditions specified m the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Lcdwio, Registered Dairyman, Croydon:— “l
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 35.; Hlb. ss. 6d. ; 561 b., 18s.
od. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
81 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE^
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box ot ese
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BF.ECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken a -
cording to the directions .given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS tes mod
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecbam’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbecitam s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent
short time be removed.
Cough will in a
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Colemane&sohs
i\\W\
THE TREE OF LIFE.
Eucalvpte OILSS.
Victory Ointmpnt^
Tlic ouly pure Eucalypte in tlie World
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption Pleurisy
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our -world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best Preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice, Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot —227 Elizabeth!Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
Moore & Hogg
I X
THE eminent
SPECIALISTS,
On aTI Diseases <ff the Genito-Urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1 CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, comer of George
’ and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOt.SOLTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Booh sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, 11L Z-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements.
BUOZBOAED BUGGIES
£2O
£2O
No. 45—Turnout Seat—£Ss.
r; oP E <sc TOT EWM A N
BOGGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
•osar -*o.j
w iuo iv :ih i. o xsaa
The Largest CoacU-
TVorhs In Australia.
Read ! !
.Etesetct. I
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gay 11.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price “ CUn.® SSa.i3.3.iaa.^
Per post, Is. 6d. (except Queensland),
Sole Agents:
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Tasmanian; Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
“ For Framing a ficturejleal and Well.”
D BERN ARDS Picture and Moulding
• Stork, 399 George-m'., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colohies. i hotos., Engravings,
&c carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gddmg
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
pecial attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
o
Branch ;
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
manufacturers
& IMPORTSRS OF
I A -*■
HATS CAPS Sc
438 CEORCIEBT
3VDNEY %
(e jLaasetters
/s
ft
o
o
o
o
ò
Business Announcements.
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
l*aob
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents :
BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CO.,
SYDNEY.
M. B. Foster and Sons,
LONDON,
“BUGLE ” BRAND ALE & STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and
STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed off
on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and
to state that all corks as well as capsules of, the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER and
SONS to this colony bear their name and
address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer pur
porting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand ’ offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be
esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the
frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information
leading to conviction of the offenders.
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY,
Agents for Messrs. H. B. Foster and Sons.
Ask for kupper’S elberfeld
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
WALTER HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred ES SB tor
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
Hotels.
EM'S
HU
im
BowDrNSfpivDEg s |^
!1
S3SFS HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St,), Sydney.
SIN C. BOWDEN - Proprietor.
Prince of wales* hotel,
nearOperaHouse, Bourke-st.,East, Melbourne.
iducted
mtrany
r
This well-known Sporting House ia cond
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Ce-
Situated.
gi-_a--.i3.t-t.3Xr H O “JL" 31a s
Warrnambool, Victoria.
a
THIS old-established and well-known Fi
and Commercial Hotel combines all
requirements of a I irst-Olass Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenerv of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony. ,
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. &W Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
jjsgr° livery and letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos,
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE
Proprietor.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Seduced from 30s. to 31s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
■ X
*2T Porpoise Hide wears twice as long 1 as
any other leather. “St
x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
m
253 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade arid Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery* and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GlasS, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES. BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J.
SORIN AND CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. R, IjARKIN,
IMPORTER OF
WIITES, x x BEEE- S, x ETC..
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Henn ussy’s, Kartell's and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The. Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
131?" The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. Jggr’ All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
anti Single Bottle departments, anS 2M €tenrge-st,, §>y2ney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHHKHT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinglmrst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
o
ò
SSTBI'W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From, lOs. 6d. to £35.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Bridge St., Sydlney,
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* 18S8~89*
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rpHE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
■L Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
jgf" Growers Advised and Consulted with before Salts
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lien
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &0., Held Regularly.
jpgr° Every Information Supplied on Application,
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL Sc GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loftus Streets. "i^
J3T* A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes re grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
* Free Preacriptiona
Are to be found in the u Light and Life,”
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —■
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
OA
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLAHENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really lirst-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
AJlrs. Tg~TT ■'ivrTi\rs r T*Th; n ; Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
T.ONGTS IMPEEIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites. First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONCr - - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
■{ : )■
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
V
Com
0
X
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying' the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin: is
most cooling and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, » pm Met Powder in Three
Tints —Whitk, Rose, and Cream, Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
o
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.P.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
cmm pumps,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Iji3BL'fclXC3S«
CHILLING MACHINES,
&C,, &0.
Hay
St., Haymarket, Sydney,
kt^atal^que.
WINSIM MINES.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
FLOULL ENGINES.
ENGINES
FOB
Electric Lighting,
Vertical Boilers.
Uuliituhlar Boilers,
COSKISH BOUEBB.
&0., &c.
We invite all those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
120. 131, 133 & 13 5 HAY STREET, HAYMARKBT, SYDKTEY.
9 7 £ i -
